Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


mostly in humans and animals in captivity. Most animal species in the wild with few exceptions [e.g., short-finned pilot whales, killer whales and some fish ( 1 )] do not live beyond their reproductive years; during periods of food deprivation, many small animals may not even live beyond puberty. Even among humans, only the men and women of the past three generations have enjoyed a life expectancy of greater than fifty years. With increasing life expectancies of human populations across the globe, today, most men and women can expect to spend a substantial proportion of their lifespan past their procreative years. The historical transition towards aging of human populations has profoundly influenced the health and wellbeing of older adults in their post-reproductive years as well as the size, health, vitality, and economies of human societies ( 2 ). At an individual level, many conditions related to reproductive aging, including sexual dysfunction, subfertility or infertility, conditions related to sex-steroid deficiency, genitourinary disorders, pelvic floor disorders, and cancers of the reproductive and accessory organs motivate middle-aged and older men and women to seek medical care. At a societal level, reproductive aging poses a potential threat to the reproductive capacity, health, and welfare of the current and future generations ( 2 , 3 ). Birth-rates in the United States, which had been declining since the turn of the nineteenth century - except during a short baby boom period after World War II - have trended below replacement levels since 1971 ( Figure 1 ) ( 3-6 ). Several factors have contributed to this trend, including a growing proportion of couples having their first child after age 30, and an increasing proportion postponing pregnancy beyond age 35 ( Figure 1 ) ( 4 , 7 ). Societal developments underpinning these trends include the availability of contraceptives that enable couples to separate their sexual and procreative lives; increased work force participation and changing career expectations of women; and a higher age of the male and female partners at reproductive union ( 2 , 3 ). Postponement of childbearing to an older age increases the risk of involuntary childlessness because of the adverse effects of advanced maternal and paternal age per se on fecundity, increased risk of comorbidities associated with advancing age that may indirectly affect fecundity, and the age-related changes in reproductive behaviors ( 4 , 8-11 ). Figure 1. Birth rates, mean age of
