Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


prostate cancer and major adverse cardiovascular events are also lacking. The recent publication of several well-conducted placebo-controlled trials of testosterone in middle-aged and older men has greatly advanced our understanding of the effects of testosterone treatment on sexual function, mobility, vitality, lower urinary tract symptoms and atherogenesis progression ( 22-28 ). However, in the absence of long-term, adequately-powered randomized trials of the effects of testosterone on hard patient-important health outcomes – fractures, falls, physical disability, progression from prediabetes to diabetes, remission of depressive disorders, wellbeing, and progression to dementia - the risks and benefits of long-term testosterone replacement in older men remain incompletely understood. The first section of this chapter reviews the pathophysiology and health consequences of age-related decline of testosterone levels and offers a patient-centric individualized approach to the treatment decisions. The second section describes the age-related alterations in the gametogenic compartment of the testes. CHANGES IN THE STEROIDOGENIC COMPARTMENT OF THE TESTIS Age Related Changes in Circulating Concentrations of Reproductive Hormones Many studies suggest that aging per se affects the gonadal axis independently of the co-morbidities that accrete with aging, but there remains controversy about the relative contributions of the aging and the accumulation of co-morbidities to the age-related decline in testosterone levels. A few studies of older men have reported preservation of normal testosterone concentrations and its circadian rhythm in healthy older men ( 29 , 30 ). However, many other cross-sectional studies have shown that even after accounting for the potential confounding factors such as time of sampling, concomitant illness and medications, and technical issues related to hormone assays, serum total testosterone levels are lower in older men in comparison to younger men ( 31-52 ). Several longitudinal studies ( 31-34 ) also have confirmed a gradual but progressive decrease in serum testosterone concentrations from age 20 to 80. Adiposity, chronic illness, weight gain, lifestyle factors, medications, and genetic factors affect testosterone levels and the trajectory of the age-related decline in testosterone levels in men ( 29 , 32 , 35 , 53-56 ). The rate of age-related decline is greater in older men with chronic illness and adiposity than in healthy, non-obese older men ( 35 , 53 , 54 ). In the European Male Aging Study, adiposity and comorbidities were more strongly associated with low testosterone levels than age ( 57 ). In contrast to the sharp reduction in ovarian estrogen production at menopause,
