Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


Aging Study, adiposity and comorbidities were more strongly associated with low testosterone levels than age ( 57 ). In contrast to the sharp reduction in ovarian estrogen production at menopause, the age-related decline in men does not start at a discrete coordinate in old age; rather, total testosterone concentrations, after reaching a peak in the second and third decade, decline inexorably throughout a man’s life ( Figure 2 ). Because of the absence of an identifiable inflection point at which testosterone levels begin to decline abruptly or more rapidly, many investigators have questioned the validity of the concept of “andropause”, which misleadingly implies an abrupt cessation of androgen production in men ( 39 , 58 ). The term ‘late-onset hypogonadism’ has been proposed to reflect the view that in some middle-aged and older men (> 65 years), the age-related decline in testosterone concentration is associated with a cluster of symptoms and signs in a syndromic constellation which resembles in some aspects that observed in men with classical hypogonadism ( 47 , 59 ). Figure 2. The distribution of total and free testosterone levels by decades of age in male participants of the Framingham Heart Study, the European Male Aging Study (EMAS) and the Study of Osteoporotic Fractures in Men (MrOS). Means and standard deviations are shown. To convert total testosterone from ng/dL to nmol/L, multiply concentrations in ng/dL with 0.0347. To convert free testosterone from pg/mL to pmol/L, multiply concentrations in pg/mL with 3.47. Reproduced with permission from Bhasin et al, J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2011 Aug;96(8):2430-9. Sex-hormone binding globulin concentrations are higher in older men than younger men ( 32 , 43 , 48 ). Thus, the age-related decline in free testosterone levels is of a greater magnitude than that in total testosterone levels. Similarly, there is a greater percent decline in bioavailable testosterone concentrations (the fraction of circulating testosterone that is not bound to SHBG) than in total testosterone concentrations. An Expert Panel of the Endocrine Society defined androgen deficiency as a syndrome resulting from reduced production of testosterone and characterized by a set of signs and symptoms in association with unequivocally low testosterone levels ( 16 ). Many epidemiologic studies have defined androgen deficiency solely in terms of serum testosterone concentrations below the lower limit of the normal range for healthy, young men leading to inaccurate estimates of the prevalence of androgen deficiency in older men. Additionally,
