Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


Data derived from Bhasin et al, JCEM 2011; Orwoll et al, JCEM 2009; Wu et al, NEJM 2010; Hirsch et al, JCEM 2009. Mechanisms of Age-Related Decline in Testosterone Levels Circulating testosterone concentrations are a function of testosterone production and clearance rates; the age-related decline in serum testosterone concentrations is primarily a consequence of decreased production rates in older men ( 20 , 21 , 43-45 , 48 ). Plasma clearance rates of testosterone are, in fact, lower in older men than in younger men ( 54 , 55 ). The decline in testosterone production in older men is the result of abnormalities at all levels of the hypothalamic-pituitary-testicular axis ( 42-44 , 60-71 ). GONDADOTROPIN-RELEASING HORMONE SECRETION AND REGULATION IN OLDER MEN Pulsatile GnRH secretion is attenuated in older men. In addition, there are disturbances of the feedback and feed-forward relationships between testosterone and LH secretion ( 63 , 71 , 72 ). Thus, the sensitivity of pituitary LH secretion to androgen-mediated feedback inhibition is increased; in addition, the ability of LH to stimulate synchronously testicular testosterone secretion ( feedforward ) is attenuated ( 63 , 71 , 72 ). Veldhuis has shown that the orderliness of LH pulses and the synchrony between LH and testosterone pulses are decreased in older men ( 63 , 71 , 72 ); in addition, there is greater variability in LH pulse frequency, amplitude, and secretory mass in older men, in comparison to younger men ( 71 , 72 ). GONADOTROPIN SECRETION AND REGULATION IN OLDER MEN There is considerable heterogeneity in circulating LH and FSH concentrations in individual older men; both hypogonadotropic and hypergonadotropic hypogonadism have been reported ( 54 , 59 ). As a group, serum LH and FSH concentrations are higher in older men than in young men ( 32 , 33 ). However, serum LH concentrations do not increase in proportion to the age-related decline in circulating testosterone levels, due to the impairment of GnRH secretion and alterations in gonadal steroid feedback and feedforward relationships ( 60-71 ). In the EMAS, secondary hypogonadism (low testosterone and low or normal LH) was more prevalent (nearly 12%) than primary hypogonadism (low testosterone and elevated LH, 2%) ( 57 ). Secondary hypogonadism was associated with obesity and comorbid conditions, while primary hypogonadism was associated predominately with age ( 57 ). Nearly 10% of men in EMAS had normal testosterone levels and elevated
