Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


was associated with obesity and comorbid conditions, while primary hypogonadism was associated predominately with age ( 57 ). Nearly 10% of men in EMAS had normal testosterone levels and elevated LH; these men with elevated LH tended to be older and in poor health and were at increased risk of developing low testosterone and other comorbid conditions ( 73 ). The data on LH response to GnRH are somewhat inconsistent across studies. Urban et al ( 65 ) used an interstitial cell bioassay to measure serum concentrations of bioactive LH and found that although basal bioactive LH concentrations were similar in this sample of young and older men, older men demonstrated diminished LH response to GnRH administration. However, in a subsequent study, Zwart et al ( 66 ) found greater gonadotropin responsiveness to GnRH in older men than younger men; the maximal and incremental LH and FSH secretory masses in response to graded doses of GnRH were significantly higher in healthy, older men than in younger men. The estimated half-lives of LH, FSH, or alpha-subunit did not significantly differ between young and older men ( 66 ). The Brown Norway rat has been widely used as a model of reproductive aging. In this experimental model, the prepro-GnRH mRNA content and the number of neurons expressing prepro-GnRH mRNA are lower in older male rats in comparison to young rats ( 67 , 68 ). The GnRH content of several hypothalamic areas is also lower in intact older rats than younger rats ( 67 ). Older Brown Norway rats exhibit significant reductions in glutamate and -aminobutyric acid (GABA) levels in the hypothalamus compared to young rats ( 68 ). These observations suggest that the decreased hypothalamic excitatory amino acid expression and the reduced responsiveness of GnRH neurons to N-methyl-D-aspartate may contribute to the altered LH pulsatile secretion observed in old rats ( 68 ). Infusions of testosterone and DHT are associated with greater reductions in mean serum LH and FSH levels and the frequency of LH pulses in older men in comparison to young men ( 69 ). Winters et al ( 64 ) reported that the degree of LH inhibition during testosterone replacement of older, hypogonadal men was significantly greater than in young, hypogonadal men suggesting that older men are more sensitive to the feedback inhibitory effects of testosterone on LH. Deslypere et al ( 69 ) also found decreased LH
