Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


in young, hypogonadal men suggesting that older men are more sensitive to the feedback inhibitory effects of testosterone on LH. Deslypere et al ( 69 ) also found decreased LH pulse frequency and a greater degree of LH inhibitory response to estradiol administration in older men than young controls. Age-related increase in FSH levels is not associated with a progressive or proportionate decrease in inhibin B levels ( 70 ). Thus, the mechanistic basis of FSH increase with advancing age is not fully understood, although the lack of change in inhibin B levels suggests that Sertoli cell function is relatively preserved in older men. TESTICULAR TESTOSTERONE PRODUCTION IN OLDER Testosterone secretion in healthy, young men exhibits a diurnal rhythm characterized by higher concentrations in the morning and lower concentrations in the late afternoon. The diurnal rhythm of testosterone secretion is dampened in older men ( 41 , 51 ). Testosterone response to LH and human chorionic gonadotropin is decreased in older men, compared to younger men ( 42-44 ). Physiological and Clinical Correlates of Age-Related Decline in Circulating Testosterone in Epidemiological Studies Many physiological changes that occur with advancing age, such as the loss of bone and muscle mass, increased fat mass, impairment of physical and sexual functions, loss of body hair, and decreased hemoglobin levels, are similar to those associated with androgen deficiency in young men. Aging is associated with loss of skeletal muscle mass ( Figure 3 ), muscle strength and power, and progressive impairment of physical function ( 74-98 ). Epidemiological studies of older men have reported associations between low testosterone levels and some age-related conditions, although these associations are weak. For instance, in a number of epidemiologic studies, such as the St. Louis Inner City Study of Aging Men ( 77 ), the Olmsted County Epidemiological Study ( 76 ), and the New Mexico Elderly Health Study ( 79 , 80 ), low bioavailable testosterone levels (unbound and albumin-bound testosterone) were associated with low appendicular skeletal muscle mass. Low bioavailable testosterone levels also have been associated with decreased strength of upper as well as lower extremity muscles ( 77 , 78 ) and decreased performance in self-reported as well as performance-based measures of physical function ( 99-103 ). Low free testosterone levels have also been associated with the development of mobility limitation and the frailty syndrome ( 104-107 ). Figure 3. A schematic diagram of the
