Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


SUPPLEMENTAION ON MUSCLE MASS AND PERFORMANCE AND PHYSICAL FUNCTION IN OLDER MEN WITH LOW TESTOSTERONE LEVELS Age-Related Changes in Muscle Mass and Performance Sarcopenia, the loss of muscle mass and function, is an important consequence of aging ( 75-79 ). The principal component of the decrease in fat-free mass is the loss of muscle mass; there is little change in non-muscle lean mass ( 81-87 ). Between 20 and 80 years of age, the skeletal muscle mass decreases by 35-40% in men ( 85 ), in part due to decreased muscle protein synthesis ( 92 ). Although there is a loss of both type I and type II fibers, there is a disproportionate decrease in the number of type II muscle fibers that are important for the generation of muscle power ( 93 , 94 ). In spite of the significant depletion of skeletal muscle mass, body weight does not decrease, and may even increase because of the accumulation of body fat ( 81-87 ) ( Figure 3 ). The loss of skeletal muscle mass that occurs with aging is associated with a reduction in muscle strength ( 95-98 ). There is a substantial decrease in muscle strength and power between 50 and 70 years of age, primarily due to muscle fiber loss and selective atrophy of type II fibers ( 93-98 ). The loss of muscle strength is even greater after the age of 70; 28% of men over the age of 74 could not lift objects weighing more than 4.5 kg ( 97 ). With increasing age, there is a progressive reduction in muscle power ( 151 , 152 ), the speed of strength generation, and fatigability, the ability to persist in a task. Loss of muscle mass and strength leads to impairment of physical function, as indicated by the impaired ability to arise from a chair, climb stairs, generate gait speed, and maintain balance ( 151-154 ). The impairment of physical function contributes to loss of independence, and increased risk of physical disability, falls and fractures in older men. Anabolic Effects of Testosterone in Humans: Testosterone Trials in Healthy, Hypogonadal Men, Men with Chronic Illness, and Older Men The anabolic effects of testosterone on the muscle have been a source of controversy for over sixty years. The athletes and recreational bodybuilders use large doses of androgenic steroids with the belief that these compounds increase muscle mass and
