Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


been a source of controversy for over sixty years. The athletes and recreational bodybuilders use large doses of androgenic steroids with the belief that these compounds increase muscle mass and strength. Until recently, the academic community was skeptical about such claims because of the problems of study design. However, a large number of studies in healthy young men, healthy hypogonadal men, men with chronic illness, and in healthy older men have established that testosterone administration improves skeletal muscle mass, maximal voluntary strength, leg power, aerobic capacity, and some measures of physical performance and mobility ( 154 - 165 ). In a systematic review of testosterone trials in healthy, hypogonadal men, testosterone therapy increased fat-free mass and body weight ( Figure 5 ) ( 154-161 ). Figure 5. The effects of testosterone therapy on body composition, muscle strength, and sexual function in intervention trials. The point estimates and the associated 95% confidence intervals are shown. Panel A shows the effects of testosterone therapy on, grip strength, fat mass and lean body mass in a meta-analysis of randomized trials (data derived from Bhasin et al. Nat Clin Pract Endocrinol Metab. 2006;2(3):146-59; figure reproduced with permission from Spitzer et al. Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2013;9(7):414-24). Panel B shows the effects of testosterone therapy on sexual function in a meta-analysis of randomized trials (figure adapted with permission from Ponce et al. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2018;103(5):1745-54). The anabolic effects of testosterone on fat-free mass, muscle size, and maximal voluntary strength are related to the administered testosterone dose and the circulating testosterone concentrations ( 166-168 ) ( Figure 6 ). The administration of supraphysiologic doses of testosterone in eugonadal men increases fat-free mass, muscle size, and maximal voluntary strength ( 166-169 ). Figure 6. Testosterone Dose Response Relationship in Young and Older Men. In this study, healthy, young men (18-34 years of age) and healthy older men (60-75 years of age) were treated with a long-acting GnRH agonist plus graded doses of testosterone enanthate for 20 weeks. Shown are mean (±SEM) changes from baseline in fat free mass (upper left), skeletal muscle mass (upper right), fat mass (lower left), and leg press strength (lower right) in young (black bars) and older (lightly shaded bars) men. Adapted with permission from Bhasin et al. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2005 Feb;90(2):678-88. Testosterone effects on muscle performance are domain-specific: testosterone administration increases maximal voluntary strength and leg power, but does
