Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


with permission from Bhasin et al. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2005 Feb;90(2):678-88. Testosterone effects on muscle performance are domain-specific: testosterone administration increases maximal voluntary strength and leg power, but does not affect fatigability or specific tension ( 167 ). The gains in maximal voluntary strength during testosterone administration are proportional to the increase in muscle mass; unlike resistance exercise training, testosterone does not improve the contractile properties of the human skeletal muscle ( 167 ). Resistance exercise training augments the anabolic response to androgens; thus, men receiving testosterone and resistance exercise training together experience greater gains in fat-free mass and muscle strength than those receiving either intervention alone ( 169 ). The anabolic effects of testosterone are also augmented by concomitant recombinant growth hormone administration ( 170 ). Although it has been speculated in the sports medicine literature that increasing the protein intake can enhance the muscle mass and strength gains in response to anabolic stimuli such as resistance exercise training or androgens, the evidence supporting such speculation is weak. In a recent controlled feeding study, increasing the daily protein intake to a level (1.3 g/kg/day) higher than the recommended daily allowance (0.8 g/kg/day) for six months did not increase lean body mass or maximal muscle strength more than that associated with the daily intake of the recommended daily allowance of 0.8 g/kg/day ( 171 ) . The higher level of daily protein intake (1.3 g/kg/day) also did not augment the gains in lean body mass and muscle strength in response to testosterone administration above that observed in participants eating the recommended dietary allowance for protein ( 171 , 172 ). Testosterone replacement of young, hypogonadal men has been reported to increase muscle protein synthesis ( 158 , 173 , 174 ). The effects of testosterone replacement on muscle protein degradation need further investigation. Systematic reviews ( 155 , 175 , 176 ) of randomized, placebo-controlled trials in HIV-infected men with weight loss ( 176-181 ) have revealed that testosterone therapy for 3 to 6 months was associated with greater gains in lean body mass than placebo administration (difference in lean body mass change between placebo and testosterone arms 1.22 kg, 95% CI 0.23-2.22 for the random effect model). In two ( 176 , 180 ) out of three trials that measured muscle strength ( 176 , 180 , 181 ), testosterone administration was associated with significantly greater improvements in
