Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


two ( 176 , 180 ) out of three trials that measured muscle strength ( 176 , 180 , 181 ), testosterone administration was associated with significantly greater improvements in maximal voluntary strength than placebo. Testosterone therapy had a moderate effect on depression indices (-0.6, 95% CI -1.0, -0.2) ( 182 ) and fatigue ( 183 ), but did not improve overall quality of life ( 182 , 183 ). Changes in CD4+ T lymphocyte counts, HIV copy number, PSA, plasma HDL cholesterol, and adverse event rates were not significantly different between the placebo and testosterone-treatment groups ( 176-183 ). Overall, short-term (3-6 months) testosterone use in HIV-infected men with low testosterone levels and weight loss can induce modest gains in body weight and lean body mass with minimal changes in quality of life and mood. This inference is weakened by inconsistency of results across trials, and heterogeneity in inclusion and exclusion criteria, disease status, testosterone formulations and doses, treatment duration, and methods of body composition analysis ( 155 ). Data on testosterone effects on physical function, risk of disability, or long-term safety in HIV-infected men are limited. Testosterone administration increases fat-free mass and decreases fat mass in older men with low testosterone levels. Meta-analyses ( 155 , 183 ) of randomized trials ( 184-188 ) that included middle-aged and older men with low or low normal testosterone levels, and that used testosterone or its esters in replacement doses for > 90 days, have confirmed that testosterone administration is associated with a significantly greater increase in whole body and appendicular fat-free mass and a greater reduction in whole body and appendicular fat mass than placebo ( Figure 5 ). The average gains in fat-free mass generally were greater in trials that used injectable testosterone esters than in those which used transdermal testosterone gel, presumably because of the higher doses of testosterone delivered by the injectable formulations than by transdermal gel formulations. The change in body weight did not differ significantly between the testosterone and placebo groups. Testosterone administration improves stair climbing speed and power, and self-reported physical function, as assessed by the Medical Outcomes Study Short Form 36 (MOS SF36) questionnaire. Testosterone’ Effects on Atherosclerosis Progression in Aging Men Trial (The TEAAM Trial), a randomized trial conducted in healthy community-dwelling older men without functional limitations and low to low-normal testosterone levels, showed that testosterone replacement for 3-years was associated with
