Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


(The TEAAM Trial), a randomized trial conducted in healthy community-dwelling older men without functional limitations and low to low-normal testosterone levels, showed that testosterone replacement for 3-years was associated with modest improvements in leg-press and chest-press power and the stair-climb power ( 163 ). Changes in gait speed generally have been modest and inconsistent across randomized trials ( 25 , 185 , 188 , 189 ). Testosterone administration is associated with small improvements in aerobic capacity and attenuation of the age-related decline in VO 2peak ( Figure 7 ) ( 164 , 165 ). Figure 7. Effects of testosterone administration on measures of muscle performance and physical function in randomized testosterone trials in older men. Panel A shows the mean (SD) change from baseline to maximal voluntary strength in the leg press and chest press exercises and on loaded stair climbing power at either the end of the intervention period or at the last measurement performed in who dropped out before study completion in the testosterone in older men with mobility limitation (The TOM Trial). The minimal clinically important difference (MCID) for each outcome was determined using an anchor-based method within the trial. The proportion of men (percent) whose change from baseline either equaled or exceeded the MCID is shown below the figure along with the P-value for the comparison of placebo and testosterone groups (figure adapted with permission from Spitzer et al. Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2013;9(7):414-24). Panel B shows the long-term effects of testosterone administration on aerobic capacity in older men participating in the TEAAM trial. Data points represent mean changes from baseline and error bars are 95% CI in VO2peak (L/min) and in peak work rate. P values indicate the overall effect of the testosterone intervention over time (figure reproduced with permission from Traustadóttir et al, J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2018;103(8):2861-2869). One reason for the variable improvements in physical function in various testosterone trials is that the measures of physical function used in previous studies had low ceilings. Another confounder of the effects of anabolic interventions on muscle function is the learning effect. For instance, subjects who are unfamiliar with weightlifting exercises often demonstrate improvements in measures of muscle performance simply because of increased familiarity with the exercise equipment and technique. Because of the considerable test-to-test variability in tests of physical function, it is possible that previous studies did not have adequate power to detect meaningful differences in
