Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


equipment and technique. Because of the considerable test-to-test variability in tests of physical function, it is possible that previous studies did not have adequate power to detect meaningful differences in measures of physical function between the placebo and testosterone-treated groups. It is also possible that neuromuscular adaptations needed to translate strength gains into functional improvements require a lot longer than the 3 to 6-month duration of most of the previous trials. The measures of physical function that are more robustly related to lower extremity muscle strength, such as stair climbing speed and power, have shown more consistent improvements in testosterone trials than walking speed ( 22 , 23 , 190 ). Only a few testosterone trials have been conducted in older men with functional limitations ( 22 , 26 , 28 , 190-192 ). In a trial of pre-frail or frail men ( 28 ), administration of 50 mg testosterone gel daily for 6 months induced greater improvements in lean mass, knee extension peak torque, and sexual symptoms than did placebo gel ( 28 ). Performance-based measures of physical function did not differ significantly between groups, but they improved in the subgroup of frail elderly men ( 28 ). In Testosterone in Older Men (TOM) Trial, older men with mobility limitation were randomly assigned to either placebo or 10 g testosterone gel daily for 6 months ( 22 , 190 ). The testosterone dose was adjusted to achieve testosterone levels between 17.4 nmol/l and 34.7 nmol/L (500 to 1000 ng/dL). The improvements in leg-press strength, chest-press strength and power, and loaded stair-climbing speed and power were significantly greater in men assigned to testosterone arm than in those receiving placebo ( Figure 7 ). A greater proportion of men in the testosterone arm improved more than the minimal clinically important difference for leg-press and chest-press strength and stair-climbing speed than that in the placebo arm. Because of a higher frequency of cardiovascular-related events in the testosterone arm compared with the placebo arm, the trial’s data and safety monitoring board stopped further administration of study medication ( 22 , 190 ). The findings of the TOM trial and other epidemiologic studies have heightened the concern that frail elderly men with a high burden of chronic co-morbidities may be at an increased risk of adverse events ( 22 ), providing the impetus to develop, strategies to achieve increased selectivity and a more favourable
