Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


burden of chronic co-morbidities may be at an increased risk of adverse events ( 22 ), providing the impetus to develop, strategies to achieve increased selectivity and a more favourable risk to benefit ratio ( 22 ). The Testosterone Trials were a coordinated set of seven randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled trials designed to determine the benefits of testosterone therapy in older men 65 years and older with low testosterone levels and clinical symptoms of androgen deficiency on a variety of androgen-dependent outcomes ( 192 ). To participate in these trials, the men had to be eligible for at least one of the three main trials (the Sexual Function Trial, the Physical Function Trial, or the Vitality Trial). The men were assigned to testosterone or placebo gel for 1 year and the dose was adjusted to maintain testosterone concentrations within the normal range for healthy young men. The Physical Function Trial of the TTrials recruited older men with self-reported difficulty walking or climbing stairs and walking speed less than 1.2 m/s and an average of two morning fasting testosterone levels less than 275 ng/dL ( 162 ). The 6-minute walking distance improved significantly more in the testosterone than in the placebo group among all men in the TTrials, but not in those who were enrolled in the PFT ( 162 ). The self-reported physical function assessed using the physical component of the Medical Outcomes Study Short Form-36 questionnaire, improved more in the testosterone group than in the placebo group in all men in TTrials and in men enrolled in the PFT ( 162 ). The men in the testosterone group were more likely to report improvement in their walking ability than men in the placebo group. The changes in 6-minute walking distance were significantly associated with changes in testosterone, free testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, and hemoglobin levels, and to baseline gait speed and self-reported mobility limitation ( 162 ). Thus, testosterone treatment of older men with mobility limitation consistently improved self-reported walking ability, modestly improved 6-minute walking distance ( 162 ). The number of falls was similar in the testosterone and placebo arms ( 162 ). Innovative strategies to translate gains in muscle mass and strength induced by testosterone into functional improvements are needed ( 18 ). Resistance exercise training augments the anabolic effects of androgens on muscle mass and performance and physical function ( 193 ). Thus, adjunctive exercise training might be required
