Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


( 18 ). Resistance exercise training augments the anabolic effects of androgens on muscle mass and performance and physical function ( 193 ). Thus, adjunctive exercise training might be required to induce the neuromuscular and behavioural adaptations that are necessary to translate the gains in muscle mass and strength into clinically-meaningful functional improvements ( 18 ). In addition, there is some evidence that the anabolic response of skeletal muscle to dietary protein is attenuated with age ( 194 , 195 ). These findings have raised the question whether the current recommended dietary allowance (RDA) for protein (0.8 g/kg/day) is adequate to preserve lean body mass and physical function in older adults. However, In a recent controlled feeding study in functionally-limited older men with usual protein intake less than or equal to the RDA for protein ( 171 ) higher protein intake exceeding the RDA did not increase lean body mass, muscle performance or physical function nor augmented the anabolic response to testosterone. However, higher protein intake was associated with lower whole body and visceral abdominal fat, although no significant changes in metabolic biomarkers (fasting glucose, fasting insulin, HOMA-IR, leptin, adiponectin, IL-6, and hs-CRP) were observed ( 196 ). These findings suggest that the current RDA for protein is adequate to maintain lean body mass and higher protein intake above the RDA does not promote additional gains in muscle mass or physical function with or without testosterone supplementation. Mechanisms of Androgen Action on Muscle Testosterone-induced increase in muscle mass is associated with hypertrophy of both type I and II muscle fibers ( 197 ). The absolute number and the relative proportion of type I and type II fibers do not change during testosterone administration. Testosterone-induced muscle fiber hypertrophy is associated with dose-dependent increases in myonuclear number and satellite cell number ( 198 ), suggesting that testosterone administration increases the number of muscle progenitor cells. Testosterone administration has been shown to increase fractional muscle protein synthesis and improve the reutilization of amino acids ( 173 , 174 ). The effects of testosterone on muscle protein degradation have not been well studied. However, the muscle protein synthesis hypothesis does not explain the reciprocal decrease in fat mass or the increases in myonuclear and satellite cell number that occur during testosterone administration ( 198 ). Testosterone promotes the differentiation of mesenchymal multipotent muscle progenitor cells into the myogenic lineage and inhibits the differentiation of
