Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


satellite cell number that occur during testosterone administration ( 198 ). Testosterone promotes the differentiation of mesenchymal multipotent muscle progenitor cells into the myogenic lineage and inhibits the differentiation of these progenitor cells into the adipogenic lineage ( 199 , 200 ). Thus, testosterone promotes the formation of myosin heavy chain II positive myotubes in multipotent cells and up-regulates markers of myogenic differentiation, such as MyoD and myosin heavy chain ( 199 , 200 ). Testosterone and DHT inhibit adipogenic differentiation and downregulate markers of adipogenic differentiation, such as PPAR-ϒ and C/EBP∝ ( 201 ). Testosterone’s effects on myogenic differentiation are mediated largely through its binding to the classical androgen receptor, which induces a conformational change in the androgen receptor protein, promoting its association with its co-activator, beta-catenin, causing the complex to translocate into the nucleus ( 200 , 202 ). The androgen receptor – beta-catenin complex associates with TCF-4 and activates a number of Wnt target genes ( 200 , 202 ), including follistatin. Follistatin cross-communicates the signal from the AR-beta- catenin pathway to the TGF-beta signaling pathway, blocking signaling through the TGF-beta / Smad 2/3 ( 201 , 203 ). Follistatin plays an essential role in mediating the effects of testosterone on myogenic differentiation ( 203 , 204 ). Jasuja et al ( 204 ) found that the administration of recombinant follistatin selectively increased muscle mass and decreased fat mass but had no effect on prostate growth. Recombinant follistatin and testosterone each regulated the expression of a large number of common genes in the skeletal muscle, but they differed substantially in the expression profile of genes activated in the prostate ( 204 ). Among the genes activated differentially by testosterone but not by follistatin in the prostate, Jasuja et al ( 204 ) identified polyamine pathway as an important signaling pathway. The polyamine pathway has been known to be involved in regulating prostate growth. Administration of testosterone in combination with an inhibitor of ornithine decarboxylase-1, a key enzyme in the polyamine pathway, to castrated male mice restored levator ani muscle mass but not prostate mass, indicating that ODC1 plays an important role in mediating the effects of testosterone on the prostate ( Figure 8 ) ( 204 ). Therefore, combined administration of testosterone plus ODC1 inhibitor provides a novel approach for achieving selectivity of testosterone’s anabolic effects on the muscle while sparing the prostate ( 204 ). Figure
