Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


Therefore, combined administration of testosterone plus ODC1 inhibitor provides a novel approach for achieving selectivity of testosterone’s anabolic effects on the muscle while sparing the prostate ( 204 ). Figure 8. Testosterone Plus Ornithine Decarboxylase 1 Inhibitor as a Selective Prostate Sparing Anabolic Therapy. Intact and castrated adult male mice were treated for 2-weeks with vehicle or testosterone with and without α-difluoromethylornithine (DFMO), a specific Odc1 inhibitor, as follows: Intact, castrated (Cx), castrated + 15µg/day T (Cx+T), castrated +15µg/day T+ 15µg/day DFMO (Cx+T+DFMO). Levator ani weights (right panel) in mice treated with testosterone plus DFMO were similar to those in intact controls and testosterone-treated castrated mice. Prostate weights in castrated mice were lower than in intact controls and were restored by testosterone administration to levels seen in intact mice (left panel). Mice treated with testosterone plus DFMO had significantly lower prostate weights than intact controls or castrated mice treated with testosterone alone, but not significantly different from those in castrated mice treated with vehicle alone. Thus, testosterone plus ODC1 inhibitor could serve as prostate-sparing selective anabolic therapy. Reproduced with permission from Jasuja et al. Aging Cell. 2014 Apr;13(2):303-10. The Role of Steroid 5-Alpha Reductase and DHT in Mediating Androgen Effects in the Muscle Although the enzyme steroid 5-alpha-reductase is expressed at low concentrations within the muscle ( 205 , 206 ), we do not know whether conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone is required for mediating testosterone's effects on the muscle. Men with benign prostatic hypertrophy who are treated with a 5-alpha reductase inhibitor do not experience muscle loss ( 207 ). Similarly, individuals with congenital 5-alpha-reductase deficiency have normal muscle development at puberty ( 207 ). These data suggest that 5-alpha reduction of testosterone to DHT is not obligatory for mediating its effects on the muscle. However, all the kindred with steroid 5-alpha reductase deficiency that have been published to-date have had mutations of type 2 isoform of the enzyme. Similarly, finasteride is a weak inhibitor of only the type 2 isoform of the enzyme. The circulating concentrations of DHT in male patients with congenital mutation of type 2 steroid 5-alpha reductase enzyme or in men treated with finasteride are lower than eugonadal men; however, these patients still produce significant amounts of DHT and their circulating DHT concentrations are often in the lower end of the range in healthy young men. Long-term administration of dutasteride, a dual and potent inhibitor
