Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


amounts of DHT and their circulating DHT concentrations are often in the lower end of the range in healthy young men. Long-term administration of dutasteride, a dual and potent inhibitor of both 5-alpha reductase isoforms, has not been associated with significant reductions in bone mineral density ( 207 ). This issue is important because if 5-alpha reduction of testosterone to DHT were not obligatory for mediating its anabolic effects on the muscle, then it might be beneficial to administer testosterone with an inhibitor of steroid 5-alpha reductase or to develop selective androgen receptor modulators that do not undergo 5-alpha reduction. To determine whether testosterone’s effects on muscle mass and strength, sexual function, hematocrit, prostate, sebum production, and lipids are attenuated when its conversion to DHT is blocked, we administered to healthy men, 21-50 years, a long-acting GnRH-agonist to suppress endogenous testosterone. We randomized them to placebo or dutasteride (dual inhibitor of steroid 5-alpha reductase type 1 and 2) 2.5-mg daily, plus 50, 125, 300, or 600-mg testosterone enanthate weekly for 20-weeks ( 208 ). Changes in lean and fat mass, leg-press and chest-press strength, were related to testosterone dose but did not differ between placebo and dutasteride groups ( 208 ). The relation between testosterone concentrations and the changes in lean body mass, maximum voluntary muscle strength, hematocrit, and sebum production was similar between dutasteride and placebo arms ( Figure 9 ) ( 208 ). Changes in sexual-function scores, bone markers, prostate volume, and PSA did not differ between groups ( 208 ). These data indicate that testosterone’s conversion to DHT is not essential for mediating its effects on muscle mass and strength, sexual function, hematocrit, or sebum production in men over the range of testosterone concentrations achieved in this trial ( 208 ). These data are consistent with studies that have reported that administration of steroid 5α-reductase inhibitors has little or no effect on muscle or bone mass ( 209-211 ). The isoforms of steroid 5α reductase enzyme also catalyze the 5α reduction of cortisol, progesterone, bile acids and other metabolites. In the central nervous system, 5α-reductase is the rate-limiting enzyme in the conversion of progesterone to allopregnanolone that serves as a positive allosteric modulator of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) A receptors to modulate neural pathways that regulate mood, affect, and cognition ( 212-214 ). Low levels of allopregnanolone have been implicated in the pathogenesis of some forms of depressive
