Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


A receptors to modulate neural pathways that regulate mood, affect, and cognition ( 212-214 ). Low levels of allopregnanolone have been implicated in the pathogenesis of some forms of depressive and anxiety disorders ( 215 ). An intravenous preparation of allopregnanolone was found to be efficacious and approved for the treatment of postpartum depression ( 216 , 217 ) and is being investigated for the treatment of other depressive disorders. Steroid 5α-reductase enzymes are also involved in cortisol metabolism and in the pathogenesis of metabolic disease ( 218 ). Figure 9. The Role of 5-alpha-Dihydrotestosterone in Men. In this randomized trial, healthy men, 18-50 years, received a long-acting GnRH-agonist to suppress endogenous testosterone. They were then randomized to either placebo or dutasteride (dual inhibitor of steroid 5-alpha reductase types 1 and 2) 2.5-mg daily, plus 50, 125, 300, or 600-mg testosterone enanthate weekly for 20-weeks ( 535 ). Changes in fat-free mass (upper panel) and leg-press strength (lower panel), were related to testosterone dose but did not differ between placebo and dutasteride groups ( 535 ). The relationship between change in total testosterone (TT) levels and change in fat-free mass and leg press strength (right panels) did not differ between men assigned to placebo or dutasteride arms. Reproduced with permission from Bhasin et al, JAMA. 2012 Mar 7;307(9):931-9. The Role of CYP19A1 (Aromatase) in Mediating Testosterone’s Effects on the Muscle Studies of aromatase knockout mice have revealed higher fat mass and lower muscle mass in mice that are null for the P450-linked CYP19A1 aromatase gene ( 219 ). Similarly, humans with CYP19A1 mutations have decreased muscle mass and increased fat mass, and they exhibit insulin resistance ( 220 ). Data from these experiments of nature suggest that aromatization of testosterone to estradiol is important in mediating androgen effects on body composition. Finkelstein et al ( 221 ) have recently examined the relative roles of testosterone and estradiol in regulation of muscle and fat mass, and sexual function. These investigators found that testosterone’s effects on lean mass, muscle size, and strength were not significantly attenuated when its conversion to estradiol was blocked by administration of an aromatase inhibitor ( 221 ). REGULATION OF FAT MASS, FAT DISTRIBUTION, AND METABOLISM BY TESTOSTERONE Testosterone is an important regulator of fat mass and distribution. Lowering testosterone concentrations by administration of a GnRH agonist increases fat mass, and testosterone administration in hypogonadal men decreases whole
