Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


Testosterone is an important regulator of fat mass and distribution. Lowering testosterone concentrations by administration of a GnRH agonist increases fat mass, and testosterone administration in hypogonadal men decreases whole body fat mass ( 159 , 222-224 ). The loss of fat mass during testosterone administration occurs both in the appendices as well as the trunk and is distributed evenly between the superficial subcutaneous and deep intra-abdominal and intermuscular compartments ( 166 , 223 ). The effects of testosterone on whole body fat mass are related to the administered testosterone dose and the circulating testosterone concentrations ( 166 , 223 ). Mechanisms of Testosterone’s Effects on Fat Mass and Metabolism The effects of testosterone on fat mass are mediated through its conversion to estradiol by the aromatase enzyme encoded by CYP19A1 ( 221 ). Men with inactivating mutations of CYP19A1 are characterized by increased fat mass, metabolic syndrome, hepatic steatosis, and insulin resistance ( 225-227 ). Estradiol replacement of male aromatase knockout mice reverses the adiposity and metabolic abnormalities associated with estrogen deficiency ( 228 ). Testosterone regulates adipose tissue mass and metabolism through multiple mechanistic pathways. Androgens inhibit adipogenic differentiation of multipotent mesenchymal progenitor cells; these effects are blocked by androgen receptor blocker, bicalutamide ( 200 , 201 , 229 ). Testosterone regulates fat oxidation but does not appear to affect triglyceride secretion over short durations ( 230 ). Testosterone, after its aromatization to estradiol, acts through the estrogen receptors in specific brain regions to regulate eating behavior, energy expenditure, and adipose tissue metabolism. The deletion of estrogen receptor α (ER-α) in specific brain regions is associated with adiposity, hyperphagia, and hypometabolism ( 231 ); estradiol acting through ER-α regulates eating behavior and energy expenditure differentially through actions on different hypothalamic neurons ( 231 ). Activation of estrogen receptor β (ER-β) by selective agonists inhibits weight gain, adiposity, increases energy expenditure and thermogenesis, and reverses hepatic steatosis in mice through direct effects on xenobiotic and bile acid receptors in the liver ( 232 ). TESTOSTERONE AND SEXUAL FUNCTION IN OLDER MEN Regulation of Sexual Function by Testosterone Sexual function in men is a complex process that includes central mechanisms for regulation of sexual desire and arousal, and local mechanisms for penile tumescence, orgasm, and ejaculation ( 233 ). Primary effects of testosterone are on sexual interest and motivation ( 233-238 ). Testosterone replacement of young, androgen deficient men improves
