Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


for penile tumescence, orgasm, and ejaculation ( 233 ). Primary effects of testosterone are on sexual interest and motivation ( 233-238 ). Testosterone replacement of young, androgen deficient men improves a wide range of sexual behaviors including frequency of sexual activity, sexual daydreams, sexual thoughts, feelings of sexual desire, attentiveness to erotic stimuli, and spontaneous erections ( 233-241 ). Kwan et al ( 237 ) demonstrated that androgen-deficient men have decreased frequency of sexual thoughts and lower overall sexual activity scores; however, these men can achieve erections in response to visual erotic stimuli. Hypogonadal men have lower frequency and duration of the episodes of nocturnal penile tumescence; testosterone replacement increases both the frequency and duration of sleep-entrained, penile erections ( 239-241 ). Although both orgasm and ejaculation are believed to be androgen-independent, hypogonadal men have decreased ejaculate volume and their orgasm may be delayed. Although hypogonadal men can achieve erections, it is possible that achievement of optimal penile rigidity might require physiologic testosterone concentrations. Testosterone regulates nitric oxide synthase activity in the cavernosal smooth muscle ( 242 ). Testosterone administration in orchiectomized rats increases penile blood flow and has trophic effects on cavernosal smooth muscle ( 243-245 ). In male rodents, all measures of mating behavior are normalized by relatively low testosterone levels that are insufficient to maintain prostate and seminal vesicle weight ( 246 , 247 ). Similarly, in men, sexual function is maintained at relatively low normal levels of serum testosterone ( 221 , 238 , 248 ). Testosterone’s effects on libido are mediated through its conversion to estradiol ( 221 ). Total and free serum testosterone levels are positively associated with sexual desire, erectile function and sexual activity in older men with unequivocally low testosterone levels and symptoms of sexual dysfunction ( 114 ). These findings suggest that low testosterone levels may contribute to impaired sexual functioning in older men. Erectile dysfunction and androgen deficiency are two common but independently distributed, clinical disorders that sometimes co-exist in the same patient ( 112 , 113 , 233 , 249 ). Hypogonadism is a clinical syndrome that results from androgen deficiency ( 16 ); in contrast, erectile dysfunction is usually a manifestation of a systemic vasculopathy, often of atherosclerotic origin. Thus, androgen deficiency and erectile dysfunction have distinct pathophysiology. Eight to ten percent of middle-aged men presenting with erectile dysfunction have low testosterone levels ( 113 , 249-251 ).
