Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


origin. Thus, androgen deficiency and erectile dysfunction have distinct pathophysiology. Eight to ten percent of middle-aged men presenting with erectile dysfunction have low testosterone levels ( 113 , 249-251 ). Clinical Trials of the Effects of Testosterone Therapy on Sexual Function of Older Men with Low Circulating Testosterone Concentrations In open-label trials, testosterone treatment has been shown to improve sexual function in young men with classical hypogonadism due to disorders of the hypothalamus, pituitary, or testes ( 159 , 252 ). However, previous trials evaluating the benefits of testosterone therapy in men 60 years and older with age-related decline in testosterone levels on sexual functioning have yielded inconsistent results ( 253 ), with some studies showing improvement ( 254 , 255 ), while others have suggested no clear benefit ( 23 ). The inconsistencies in these previous studies are due to several factors, including small sample sizes, inclusion of men who were not clearly hypogonadal or did not have sexual symptoms, inclusion of men with heterogeneous sexual disorders, variable treatment durations, and the use of outcomes assessment tools that had not been rigorously validated. In a small number of placebo-controlled trials of testosterone that have been conducted in men with sexual symptoms and low testosterone levels ( 24 , 26 , 161 ), testosterone replacement has been associated with a small but significant increase in overall sexual activity, sexual desire, erectile function, and sexual satisfaction. A meta-analysis of these placebo-controlled trials found that testosterone replacement of hypogonadal men is associated with a small but significant increase in sexual desire [standardized mean difference (SMD): 0.17; 95% CI, 0.01, 0.34], erectile function (SMD: 0.16; 95% CI, 0.06, 0.27), and sexual satisfaction (SMD: 0.16; 95% CI, 0.01, 0.31) ( 256 ). The Sexual Function Trial of the TTrials determined the efficacy of testosterone treatment for 1-year on sexual function in symptomatic, community-dwelling, older men ≥65 years with low testosterone levels ( 26 ). Testosterone administration for 1-year to raise testosterone concentrations into a range that is mid-normal for healthy young men was associated with significant improvements in sexual activity, desire, and erectile function ( 257 ). The treatment effects tended to wane over time, and the effect on erectile function was substantially smaller than that reported with phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitors ( 258 ). The magnitude of increase in testosterone levels was related to the improvements in sexual activity and desire, but not erectile
