Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


than that reported with phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitors ( 258 ). The magnitude of increase in testosterone levels was related to the improvements in sexual activity and desire, but not erectile function ( 257 ). There was no clear testosterone threshold level of effect. Testosterone does not improve sexual function in middle-aged and older men who have normal testosterone levels and do not have any sexual symptoms ( 23 ). Testosterone replacement therapy does not improve ejaculatory function in men with ejaculatory disorder ( 259 ). It had been speculated that testosterone administration might improve erectile response of men with ED to selective phosphodiesterase inhibitors ( 260-262 ). To determine whether the addition of testosterone to a phosphodiesterase-5-inhibitor improves erectile response, we conducted a randomized, placebo-controlled trial ( 263 ), in men, 40-to-70 years, with erectile dysfunction and low total testosterone< 11.5 nmol/L (330ng/dL) and/or free testosterone <173.5 pmol/L (50 pg/mL). All participants were initially started on sildenafil alone and the sildenafil dose was optimized based on their response during a 3 to 7-week run-in period ( 263 ). The participants were then randomized to 10-g testosterone or placebo gel for 14-weeks in combination with the optimized sildenafil dose ( 263 ). The administration of sildenafil alone was associated with substantial increases in erectile function domain (EFD) score and total and satisfactory sexual encounters ( 263 ). However, the change in EFD score in men assigned to testosterone plus sildenafil did not differ significantly from that in men assigned to placebo plus sildenafil ( 263 ). Changes in total and successful sexual encounters, quality-of-life, and marital-intimacy did not differ between testosterone and placebo groups. Even among the subsets of men with baseline testosterone <250 ng/dL or those without diabetes, there were no significant differences in EFD scores between the two arms ( 263 ). Another placebo-controlled trial of men with erectile dysfunction who were non-responders to tadalafil also did not show a greater improvement in erectile function in men assigned to the testosterone arm than in those assigned to the placebo arm ( 262 ). Thus, in randomized trials, the addition of testosterone to PDE5Is has not been shown to improve erectile function in men with erectile dysfunction ( 262 , 263 ). Synopsis of The Effects of Testosterone on Sexual Function In older hypogonadal men with low sexual desire, testosterone treatment improves sexual desire, erectile function, and overall sexual activity.
