Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


263 ). Synopsis of The Effects of Testosterone on Sexual Function In older hypogonadal men with low sexual desire, testosterone treatment improves sexual desire, erectile function, and overall sexual activity. Androgen deficiency is an important cause of low sexual desire disorder ( 233 ). Therefore, serum testosterone concentrations should be measured in the diagnostic evaluation of hypoactive sexual desire disorder as well as erectile dysfunction, recognizing that low sexual desire is often multifactorial; systemic illness, relationship and differentiation (the ability of individuals in a relationship to maintain their distinct identities) issues, depression, and many medications can be important antecedents or contributors to low sexual desire and sexual dysfunction. TESTOSTERONE EFFECTS ON BONE MINERAL METABOLISM The Effects of Androgen Deficiency on Bone Mass Testosterone deficiency is associated with a progressive loss of bone mass ( 264-267 ). In one study performed in sexual offenders ( 264 ), surgical orchiectomy was associated with a progressive decrease in bone mineral density of a magnitude similar to that seen in women after menopause. Similarly, androgen deficiency induced by the administration of a GnRH agonist, surgical orchiectomy, or an androgen antagonist for the treatment of prostate cancer leads to loss of bone mass ( 265-267 ) and an increase in fracture risk ( 268 , 269 ), which is related to the dose of GnRH agonist and the degree of testosterone suppression ( 270 ). In male rats, surgical orchiectomy or androgen blockade by administration of an androgen receptor antagonist is associated with loss of bone mass ( 271 ). Androgen deficiency that develops before the completion of pubertal development is associated with reduced cortical and trabecular bone mass ( 272 , 273 ). During the pubertal years, bone accretion, and bone length and thickness is regulated by sex steroids. During puberty, sex hormones slow long bone growth and accelerate axial growth. Prepubertal sex hormone deficiency allows continued long bone growth and slows axial growth resulting in longer limbs and a shorter trunk (eunuchoidal proportions) ( 274 ). Sex differences in bone width are also established during pubertal development. Men increase bone width by periosteal bone formation and women mostly by endocortical apposition ( 275 ). Young men with constitutional delay of puberty have lower bone mineral density ( 276 ), which does not improve spontaneously 2 years later ( 277 ). Indeed, men with hip fractures have been shown to have smaller femoral head
