Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


bone mineral density ( 276 ), which does not improve spontaneously 2 years later ( 277 ). Indeed, men with hip fractures have been shown to have smaller femoral head diameters, which may potentially be related to delayed puberty ( 278 ). Therefore, individuals with sex-steroid deficiency before or during peri-pubertal years may end up with suboptimal peak bone mass and increased lifetime fracture risk. Similarly, men with acquired androgen deficiency have lower bone mineral density than age-matched controls ( 155 ). Clinical Trials on The Effects of Testosterone Therapy on Bone in Young, Hypogonadal Men Testosterone therapy of healthy, young, hypogonadal men is associated with significant increases in vertebral bone mineral density ( 156 , 279-283 ). However, bone mineral density is typically not normalized after 1-2 years of testosterone replacement therapy ( 156 ). Some hypogonadal patients included in these testosterone trials had panhypopituitarism and also suffered from growth hormone deficiency. It is possible that concomitant GH replacement might be necessary for restoration of normal bone mineral density. Excessive glucocorticoid replacement might also contribute to bone loss in these patients. In addition, some participants had experienced testosterone deficiency before the onset and completion of pubertal development; the individuals who develop androgen deficiency during the critical pubertal developmental window of bone accretion, may end up with decreased peak bone mass, and testosterone administration may not be able to restore bone mass to levels seen in eugonadal age-matched controls. Many testosterone replacement trials were less than 3 years in duration, and it is possible that a longer period of testosterone administration might be necessary to achieve maximal improvements in bone mineral density. Indeed, Behre et al ( 279 ) reported that bone mineral density in some hypogonadal men continued to increase even after many years of testosterone treatment using a scrotal transdermal patch and reached the levels expected for age-matched eugonadal controls. Cross-Sectional Studies of the Relationship Between Sex-Hormone Concentrations and Osteoporosis in Older Men The age-related decline in sex hormones is associated with age-related changes in bone mineral density and increased risk of osteoporotic fractures ( 131-136 , 284 , 285 ). Older men with hip fractures have lower testosterone levels than age-matched controls ( 286 ). Bioavailable testosterone levels have been found to be better predictors of fracture risk than total testosterone levels ( 287 ). Interestingly, a U-shaped association between endogenous testosterone concentrations and incident fractures was
