Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


levels have been found to be better predictors of fracture risk than total testosterone levels ( 287 ). Interestingly, a U-shaped association between endogenous testosterone concentrations and incident fractures was recently observed, with midrange plasma testosterone levels being associated with lower incidence of any fracture and with hip fracture compared to lower or higher testosterone ( 288 ). Men with osteoporosis have been found to have lower DHT levels than those without osteoporosis ( 289 ). In the Cardiovascular Health Study, in which testosterone and DHT levels were measured by liquid chromatography–tandem mass spectrometry, circulating DHT, but not testosterone, was found to be negatively associated with hip fracture risk in men ( 290 ). In epidemiologic studies, estradiol levels are more strongly associated with bone mineral density of the spine, hip, and distal radius than total testosterone levels ( 132 , 134 , 135 , 285 ). Men with low bioavailable estrogen have increased risk of non-vertebral fracture which is increased further in those with low bioavailable estrogen, low bioavailable testosterone as well as high SHBG ( 287 ) suggesting a complex interplay of these hormones in fracture resilience. Mendelian randomization analysis have found that increased genetically determined estradiol levels are associated with increase in lumbar spine bone mineral density ( 291 ) and lower fracture risk ( 292 ). The CYP19A1 alleles associated with higher estradiol levels are associated with higher bone mineral density ( 291 ). Clinical Trials of the Effects of Testosterone Therapy on Bone of Middle-Aged and Older Men with Low Circulating Testosterone Concentrations Earlier studies of testosterone replacement of relatively healthy older men that examined the effects of testosterone on bone mineral density reported inconsistent results ( 188 , 189 , 293 , 294 ). One study found greater increases in vertebral bone mineral density in the testosterone arm of the trial than in the placebo arm, while another study did not find any significant differences between the change in vertebral or femoral bone mineral density between testosterone and placebo groups ( 294 ). A meta-analysis of randomized trials found a significantly greater increase in lumbar bone mineral density but not in femoral bone mineral density in the testosterone arms of trials that used intramuscular testosterone than in placebo arms ( Figure 10 ) ( 295 ); transdermal testosterone had no significant effect. Figure 10. The effects of testosterone therapy on bone health in intervention
