Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


testosterone than in placebo arms ( Figure 10 ) ( 295 ); transdermal testosterone had no significant effect. Figure 10. The effects of testosterone therapy on bone health in intervention trials. Panel A shows the effects of testosterone therapy on lumbar and femoral bone mineral density in a meta-analysis of randomized trials (data derived from a meta-analysis by Tracz et al, J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2006;91(6):2011-6.; figure adapted with Spitzer et al. Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2013;9(7):414-24). Panels B and C show the effects of testosterone replacement for 12 Months on volumetric bone mineral density and estimated bone strength of trabecular, peripheral, and whole bone of the spine and hip, as assessed by quantitative computed tomography (figure reproduced with permission from Snyder et al. JAMA Intern Med. 2017;177(4):471-479). The Bone Trial of the TTrials determined the effects of testosterone replacement for 1-year in men 65 years or older with low testosterone levels on volumetric bone mineral density and bone strength using quantitative computed tomography ( 296 ). This trial found significantly greater increases in volumetric bone mineral density and estimated bone strength in the testosterone arms compared to placebo; specifically, these increases were most prominent in the spine than hip and more in trabecular than peripheral bone ( Figure 10 ). The treatment effects on volumetric bone density and bone strength observed in the TTrials compare favorably with those reported in trials of bisphosphonates and some selective estrogen receptor modulators. The T4Bone substudy of the T4DM trial determined the effect of 24 months of testosterone treatment on bone microarchitecture and bone mineral density of men aged 50 years or older enrolled in a community-based lifestyle program using high resolution-peripheral quantitative computed tomography ( 297 ). Compared to placebo, testosterone treatment increased cortical and total bone mineral density of the tibia and radius, as well as cortical area and thickness at both sites. Testosterone treatment also increased areal thickness at the lumbar spine ( 297 ). Future studies are needed to determine whether these improvements from testosterone treatment are associated with reduced fracture risk in older men with low testosterone levels. Mechanisms of Androgen Action on the Bone Testosterone increases bone mass by several mechanisms ( 298 ). Short-term studies of androgen replacement have shown inconsistent increases in markers of bone formation, but a more consistent reduction in markers of bone resorption ( 283 , 298-300 ). These observations suggest that testosterone
