Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


replacement have shown inconsistent increases in markers of bone formation, but a more consistent reduction in markers of bone resorption ( 283 , 298-300 ). These observations suggest that testosterone increases bone mineral density in part through its aromatization to estrogen, which inhibits bone resorption. Estrogen deficiency contributes to increased bone resorption and remodeling by multiple mechanisms. Estrogens regulate the activation frequency of bone functional basic multicellular units, the duration of the resorption phase and the formation phase, and osteoclast recruitment ( 301 ). The protective effects of estrogen on bone in both male and female mice during growth and maturation are mediated largely through estrogen receptor-alpha ( 302-308 ). 17β-estradiol has also been shown to increase connexin-43 based intracellular communication which may modulate the bone response to mechanical loading in osteocytes ( 309 ). Dias and colleagues found that treatment with testosterone for 12-months improved lumbar spine bone mineral density compared to placebo but not in men treated concomitantly with anastrozole, suggesting that aromatization of testosterone to estrogen may be required for maintaining bone mineral density ( 310 ). Similarly, another recent study found significant reduction in spine bone mineral density in men treated with testosterone and anastrozole for 16-weeks that was independent of testosterone dose ( 311 ). In addition, treatment with lower testosterone doses were associated with greater increases in bone turnover markers; an effect that was significantly greater in combination with anastrozole. DHT suppresses osteoclast formation in vitro via NF-kB ligand (RANKL) mediated effects, comparable to estradiol ( 312 ); the clinical significance of DHT in suppressing bone resorption is incompletely understood. Testosterone also directly stimulates osteoblastic bone formation. Androgen receptors have been demonstrated on osteoblasts and on mesenchymal stem cells ( 313 ). Testosterone stimulates cortical bone formation ( 314 ). Sclerostin is secreted by osteocytes and inhibits osteoblast differentiation. Sclerostin was found to be negatively related to total and free testosterone in men with idiopathic osteoporosis ( 312 ). Hypogonadal men have higher serum sclerostin levels than eugonadal men, and DHT directly suppresses sclerostin production in cultured human osteocytes through an AR-mediated mechanism ( 315 ). Testosterone also stimulates the production of several growth factors within the bone, including IGF-1; these growth factors may contribute to bone formation ( 316 ). Leydig cells in the testis secrete insulin-like peptide 3 (INSL3) in addition to testosterone. INSL3 has been reported to have a negative association
