Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


contribute to bone formation ( 316 ). Leydig cells in the testis secrete insulin-like peptide 3 (INSL3) in addition to testosterone. INSL3 has been reported to have a negative association with sclerostin in specific populations and INSL3 downregulates sclerostin protein expression in cultured osteocytes ( 317 ). Osteocalcin secreted by osteoblasts acts on Leydig cells through the GPRC6A receptor, suggesting a possible feedback mechanism for bone-testis crosstalk ( 318 ). Testosterone increases muscle mass, which may indirectly increase bone mass by increased loading. Testosterone might inhibit apoptosis of osteoblasts through non-genotropic mechanisms ( 319 , 320 ). In addition to its effects on bone mineral density, testosterone might reduce fall propensity because of its effects on muscle strength and reaction time. We have shown that testosterone has dose dependent effects on erythropoiesis ( 321 ) possibly through increased erythropoietin and reduced hepcidin ( 322 ). Hematopoietic cells and bone cells are interdependent and support each other at different stages in development ( 323 , 324 ). Androgen deficiency seems to favor hematopoietic precursor differentiation to an osteoclast fate ( 312 ), which is consistent with the decreased bone resorption observed with testosterone supplementation ( 275 , 287-289 ). We have shown that older men in the MrOS study with accelerated bone density loss (>0.5%/year) have increased risk of anemia ( 325 ), and that anemia increases the risk of non-spine fractures independent of bone density ( 326 ). In a prospective analysis of the Cardiovascular Health Study, we have recently shown that men with anemia and, separately, men with decreasing hemoglobin were at increased risk of hip fracture ( 327 ). Low endogenous testosterone levels have been associated with lower hemoglobin ( 328 ), which is reversible with testosterone supplementation ( 329 ). It is possible that testosterone sufficiency is required for a healthy hematopoietic niche in men, which is then able to support a favorable microenvironment for bone health. In men androgens and estrogens both play independent roles in regulating bone resorption ( 301 ). Estradiol levels above 10 pg/ml are generally believed to be sufficient to prevent increases in bone resorption and decreases in BMD in men ( 311 ). Synopsis of The Effects of Testosterone on Bone Testosterone replacement has been shown to increase vertebral and femoral bone mineral density, and bone strength in older men with unequivocally low testosterone levels ( 16 ). Testosterone increases bone
