Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


Testosterone replacement has been shown to increase vertebral and femoral bone mineral density, and bone strength in older men with unequivocally low testosterone levels ( 16 ). Testosterone increases bone mass by multiple mechanisms. Testosterone’s aromatization to estrogen plays an important role in regulating bone health in men. Testosterone’s effects on fracture risk have not been studied. TESTOSTERONE EFFECTS ON COGNITIVE FUNCTION Cross-Sectional and Longitudinal Studies Correlating Sex-Hormone Levels and Cognitive Function Several lines of evidence suggest that testosterone regulates several domains of cognition, sexually dimorphic behaviors, mood, and affect, and the neuropathology of Alzheimer’s Disease (AD). Testosterone is aromatized to estrogen in the brain, and some effects of testosterone on cognition might be mediated through its conversion to estradiol. Additionally, androgen receptors are expressed in the brain ( 330 ), and androgen effects on brain organization during development ( 331 , 332 ) are mediated through androgen receptor. Androgens increase neurite arborization, facilitating intercellular communication ( 331-334 ). Testosterone is metabolized in neurons as well as in glial cells to DHT, which is further converted reversibly in some cell types such as type 1 astrocytes to 5α-androstane-3α,17β-diol ( 335 ), which is a potent modulator of GABA on GABA A receptors but a weak ligand for AR and ER ( 336 ). The 3β isomer of androstanediol, 5α-androstan-3β,17β-diol, is also synthesized in the brain; this steroid is a ligand for ERβ ( 337 ). Thus, testosterone treatment may potentially expose the brain to a range of biologically active metabolites, all of which may contribute to the observed responses. Testosterone also affects serotonin, dopamine, acetylcholine ( 333 ), and calcium signaling ( 334 ). Thus, testosterone could influence cognitive function and the development and progression of AD neuropathology through multiple mechanistic pathways. The age-related decline in serum testosterone levels has been associated with impairment in cognitive function ( 338 ). Androgens effects on cognitive function are domain-specific. For instance, observations that men outperform women in a variety of visuo-spatial skills suggest that androgens enhance visuo-spatial skills ( 339 ). In !Kung San hunter-gatherers of Southern Africa, testosterone, but not estradiol, levels correlated with better spatial ability and with worse verbal fluency ( 340 ). Women with congenital adrenal hyperplasia with high androgen levels score higher on tests of spatial cognition than their age- and gender-matched siblings ( 341 ). 46, XY rats with androgen insensitivity perform worse on tests of
