Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


high androgen levels score higher on tests of spatial cognition than their age- and gender-matched siblings ( 341 ). 46, XY rats with androgen insensitivity perform worse on tests of spatial cognition than their age-matched controls ( 342 ). Other studies have reported a complex relationship between androgen levels and spatial ability ( 123 , 343-345 ). Circulating levels of dihydrotestosterone, a metabolite of testosterone that is not converted to estrogen, positively correlated with verbal fluency ( 340 ). Barrett-Conner et al ( 122 ) found positive associations between total and bioavailable testosterone levels, and global cognitive functioning and mental control, but not with visuospatial skills. In the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging ( 346 ), higher free testosterone index was associated with better scores on visual and verbal memory, visuospatial functioning, and visuomotor scanning. Men with low testosterone levels had lower scores on visual memory and visuospatial performance ( 346 ); however, some studies have shown no association of serum testosterone levels with domains of visual and verbal memory, and executive function in older men ( 347 , 348 ). In the Concord Health and Aging in Men Project, the authors found that changes in serum testosterone levels over time, rather than baseline testosterone levels, were predictive of cognitive decline ( 338 ). The Potential Role of Testosterone in the Pathobiology of Alzheimer's Disease A large body of preclinical and epidemiologic data shows that testosterone acts as a negative regulator of endogenous Aβ amyloid accumulation in the brain, attenuates tau phosphorylation, reduces neuro-inflammation, exerts neuronal protective effect in response to injury and disease, and promotes neuronal regeneration and connectivity. However, the randomized trials data generated largely in community dwelling middle-aged and older adults without cognitive deficits or Alzheimer's Disease neuropathology have been inconclusive for reasons that are discussed below. Testosterone acts as a negative regulator of endogenous Aβ amyloid accumulation in the brain through multiple mechanisms. Surgical orchiectomy of male rats is associated with increased accumulation of Aβ amyloid in the brain; the accumulation of Aβ amyloid in surgically orchiectomized rats is prevented by DHT administration but not by estradiol administration ( 349-351 ). In male Brown-Norway rats, age-related decreases in testosterone and DHT are associated with increased brain levels of Aβ amyloid ( 350 ). Testosterone promotes the conversion of amyloid precursor protein (APP) to soluble APP-alpha rather than A beta amyloid. Consistent with these findings, prolonged treatment
