Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


levels of Aβ amyloid ( 350 ). Testosterone promotes the conversion of amyloid precursor protein (APP) to soluble APP-alpha rather than A beta amyloid. Consistent with these findings, prolonged treatment of cultured cortical neurons and neuroblastoma cell lines with testosterone resulted in increased production of soluble sAPP-α and decreased production of Aβ amyloid ( 349 ). This effect of testosterone on the processing of APP is mediated in part through its aromatization to estradiol ( 352 ). However, there is strong evidence of mediation through a direct androgen receptor (AR)-mediated pathway as well ( 350-353 ). In 3XTg-AD mouse model of Alzheimer’s Disease, orchiectomy at age 3 months is associated with significantly increased accumulation of Aβ amyloid in hippocampus CA1, amygdala, and subinculum at age 6 months ( 352 , 353 ). DHT treatment of orchiectomized mice prevents the accumulation of Aβ amyloid as well as deterioration of spontaneous alternation behavior ( 353 ). DHT also reduces Tau-phosphorylation in orchiectomized triple transgenic mouse model of AD ( 352 ). Androgens upregulate the expression of neprilysin, the enzyme that catalyzes the degradation and clearance of Aβ amyloid in neuronal cells ( 354 ) and decrease Aβ amyloid accumulation ( 355 ). Testosterone also attenuates AD-like tau pathology. In gonadectomized mice, testosterone as well as estradiol reduce tau phosphorylation ( 356 , 357 ). Androgens also reduce tau phosphorylation induced by acute heat shock and injury in male rats independent of estradiol ( 358 ). Testosterone exerts neuroprotective effects in many brain regions . Androgens promote neuronal viability during neural development as well as in adult brain following mechanical injury and disease-related toxicity ( 359-361 ). Testosterone protects motor neurons in the spinal cord following axotomy ( 359-361 ). In this experimental model, testosterone treatment accelerates the rate of nerve regeneration and attenuates neuronal loss ( 359 , 360 , 362 - 364 ). Testosterone exerts neuroprotective effects across the lifespan in brain areas susceptible to neurodegeneration in AD ( 365 - 368 ). Thus, in cultured neurons, testosterone reduces neuronal apoptosis induced by oxidative stress and Aβ amyloid ( 369-371 ). Testosterone promotes neuronal growth, connectivity, and functioning. Testosterone increases neurite arborization, and synapse formation facilitating intercellular communication ( 372-375 ). Testosterone also has nongenomic effects, and affects serotonin, dopamine, acetylcholine and calcium signaling ( 376-378 ). Androgen receptors are expressed in the brain, and androgen effects on organization of the
