Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


Testosterone also has nongenomic effects, and affects serotonin, dopamine, acetylcholine and calcium signaling ( 376-378 ). Androgen receptors are expressed in the brain, and androgen effects on organization of the brain during development are likely mediated directly through AR. Some additional effects of testosterone are mediated through its conversion to estradiol. Testosterone also exerts protective effects against neuroinflammation. Orchiectomy as well as obesogenic diet are each associated with increased expression levels of proinflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha and IL-1beta in the cerebral cortex in middle-aged male rats ( 370 ). The castration-induced upregulation of proinflammatory cytokines TNFα and IL-1β effect is prevented by testosterone supplementation ( 370 ). Similar stimulatory effects of testosterone on the expression of proinflammatory cytokines were observed in mixed glial cell cultures in vitro ( 370 ). 5α Dihydrotestosterone inhibits interleukin-1α or tumor necrosis factor α-induced proinflammatory cytokine production via androgen receptor-dependent inhibition of nuclear factor κB activation ( 371 ). Low testosterone also is associated with increased macrophage infiltration in sciatic nerve in castrated male rats ( 371 ). The mechanisms of these protective effects of testosterone on neuroinflammation are incompletely understood but appear to require both androgen receptor and estrogen receptor-mediated pathways ( 371 ). Epidemiological Data on the Association of Testosterone Levels with Cognitive Function and AD Pathology Some but not all epidemiologic studies have found an association between low circulating testosterone levels and AD ( 346 , 379-384 ); the relation appears to be stronger between free testosterone levels and the risk of AD than between total testosterone and AD ( 346 ). The strength of the association between testosterone and AD is affected by apolipoprotein ε4 genotype, a genetic risk factor for AD ( 380 ); men with one or more ε4 alleles have lower testosterone levels and a higher risk of AD than men without an ε4 allele ( 380 ). In longitudinal follow-up of male participants of the Baltimore Longitudinal Study on Aging ( 346 ), the men who were healthy at baseline and developed a clinical diagnosis of AD had significantly lower free testosterone levels than those who did not develop AD. The age-related decline in circulating free testosterone levels preceded the clinical diagnosis of AD by nearly 10 years ( 346 ). Rosario et al. ( 384 ) found that low brain levels of testosterone were associated with increased risk of AD in men. In human postmortem brain tissue
