Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


( 346 ). Rosario et al. ( 384 ) found that low brain levels of testosterone were associated with increased risk of AD in men. In human postmortem brain tissue from neuropathologically normal men, tissue levels of testosterone but not E 2 showed an age-related decline ( 384 ). The brain tissue levels of testosterone were significantly lower in AD cases as compared with neuropathologically normal cases after controlling for age ( 384 ). Epidemiologic investigations of the association of circulating testosterone levels with age-related changes in cognitive function are in agreement that androgens effects on cognitive function are domain-specific. Generally, men with low testosterone levels perform less well than those with normal testosterone levels on tests of verbal fluency, visuospatial abilities, verbal memory, and executive function ( 121 , 122 , 385-388 ). Some inconsistency in findings across studies is likely related to heterogeneity of study populations, lack of standardization of cognitive assessments across studies, inaccuracy and imprecision of testosterone immunoassays, and the use of variable thresholds of testosterone levels to define "low". Some studies have suggested a curvilinear relation between testosterone levels and cognitive function; both low and high testosterone levels are associated with worse function suggesting that there may be an optimal level at which cognitive performance is optimized ( 386 ). Clinical Trials Data No adequately powered randomized placebo-controlled trials of testosterone replacement have been conducted in men with AD ( 389-392 ). The clinical trials data on the effects of testosterone on cognition have provided conflicting results; these trials were limited by their small size, inclusion of men who were not clearly hypogonadal and who did not have cognitive impairment or AD neuropathology, and use of outcomes that were not directly related to AD phenotype. Some studies have reported improvements in verbal memory and visuospatial skill while others found no effect ( 389 , 391-393 ). The Testosterone Trials, a set of 7 coordinated trials of community-dwelling older men with unequivocally low testosterone levels, measured using liquid chromatography tandem-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), showed no significant effect on delayed paragraph recall – the primary outcome of the trial ( 26 , 390 ). Post hoc analysis of the TTrials data showed small but significant improvement in executive function ( 390 ). The TTrials had many attributes of good trial design - prospective allocation of participants, parallel groups, blinding, and high retention rates, but progression of AD was
