Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


function ( 390 ). The TTrials had many attributes of good trial design - prospective allocation of participants, parallel groups, blinding, and high retention rates, but progression of AD was not a primary aim of the trial ( 26 ). The trial’s duration of one year was not long enough to evaluate effects on clinically meaningful measures of cognitive function or AD pathology. The trial did not include any measures of AD pathology, including A beta amyloid or Tau-protein or blood or CSF markers of AD. The participants in this well conducted trial were not selected prospectively based on cognitive deficits or risk of AD. A few small testosterone supplementation studies (sample size varying from 11 to 47) of 6 weeks to 6-month duration in men with cognitive impairment of AD have reported modest improvements in verbal and spatial memory but the small sample sizes, short intervention durations, variable eligibility criteria, and inclusion of men without confirmed AD, and inclusion of men with normal testosterone levels limit the interpretability of these data ( 391 , 392 ). In a double-blind randomized placebo-controlled trial, Huang et al investigated the effect of testosterone administration for 3-years on multiple domains of cognitive function in a large cohort (n=280) of men 60 years and older with low or low-normal testosterone levels ( 394 ). In this trial of older, cognitively healthy men, testosterone administration was not associated with significant improvement in any domain of cognitive function ( Figure 11 ). These findings are similar to another recent placebo-controlled clinical trial conducted in older men 65-years and older (n=493) with low testosterone levels, which showed that treatment with testosterone for 1-year was not associated with improved cognitive function or memory ( Figure 11 ) ( 390 ). Sensitivity analysis that was limited to men with minimal cognitive impairment also did not find significant differences in measures of cognition between the testosterone and placebo groups ( 390 ). Figure 11. Effects of testosterone therapy on cognition domains in older men. Left panels show the long-term effects of testosterone therapy in visual and verbal memory, spacial ability and executive function in the TEAAM trial (36 months of treatment). Data displayed as baseline and post-randomization cognitive function test scores by group and study visit. Error bars are 95% CIs for mean scores and p-values are for the estimated difference between treatment effects, controlling for baseline values, age, and
