Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


scores by group and study visit. Error bars are 95% CIs for mean scores and p-values are for the estimated difference between treatment effects, controlling for baseline values, age, and education (figure adapted from Huang et al. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2018;103(4):1678-1685.) Right panels show adjusted mean change from baseline to 6 months and 12 months for men with age-associated memory impairment by treatment group in cognition domains in the Cognitive Function Trial of the TTrials (12 months duration; figure adapted from Resnick et al. JAMA. 2017;317(7):717-727). Synopsis of the Effects of Testosterone on Cognition In spite of the robust preclinical data that testosterone acts as a negative regulator of endogenous Aβ amyloid accumulation in the brain, attenuates tau phosphorylation, reduces neuro-inflammation, exerts neuronal protective effect in response to injury and disease, and promotes neuronal regeneration and connectivity and some epidemiologic evidence that decline in testosterone levels increases the risk of incident clinical AD, the randomized trial data on the effects of testosterone on cognition is highly equivocal. The randomized clinical trials in community dwelling older adults without cognitive deficit or AD neuropathology have not found clinically meaningful improvements in cognitive function. The inconsistency in findings cannot yet be interpreted as conclusive evidence that there is no effect. Limitations of previous studies include limited sample sizes, inclusion of men with no clear cognitive deficit or AD neuropathology, the use of a variety of neuropsychological tests that are not clinically meaningful in the context of AD or dementia; the use of differing protocols in clinical trials. The effects of testosterone therapy on clinically important outcomes in men with cognitive impairment have not been studied. The efficacy of testosterone replacement in men with cognitive impairment, such as in patients with Alzheimer’s disease, needs further investigation in larger randomized controlled trials. TESTOSTERONE EFFECTS ON MOOD, ENERGY, AND HEALTH-RELATED QUALITY OF LIFE Circulating testosterone concentrations have not been consistently associated with major depressive disorder in men ( 128 , 129 , 395-398 ). Rather, testosterone levels appear to be associated with a late-life low grade persistent depressive disorder (dysthymia) ( 128 , 129 , 395-398 ). Intervention trials have failed to demonstrate statistically significant or clinically meaningful improvements in patients with major depressive disorder ( 399 ). Placebo-controlled trials of testosterone in men with refractory depression also have not consistently shown a beneficial effect of testosterone ( 399-402 ). A meta-analysis of randomized trials
