Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


( 399 ). Placebo-controlled trials of testosterone in men with refractory depression also have not consistently shown a beneficial effect of testosterone ( 399-402 ). A meta-analysis of randomized trials reported modest improvements in depressive symptoms in testosterone-treated men compared to placebo-treated men ( 403 ), but there is no convincing evidence that testosterone treatment can induce remission in men with major depressive disorder ( 404 ). Two small trials in men with dysthymia have reported greater improvements in depressive symptoms in testosterone-treated men than in placebo-treated men ( 405 , 406 ). Adequately powered long-term randomized trials are needed to determine whether testosterone replacement therapy can induce remission in older hypogonadal men with late-onset, low grade persistent depressive disorder (dysthymia). There is anecdotal evidence that androgens improve energy and reduced sense of fatigue ( 407 ). Testosterone administration increases hemoglobin and red cell mass, stimulates 2, 3 DPG concentrations thereby shifting the oxygen – hemoglobin dissociation curve favorably to improve greater oxygen delivery, and induces muscle capillarity ( 322 , 408 , 409 ). Additionally, testosterone stimulates mitochondrial biogenesis and mitochondrial quality ( 410 ). All of these adaptations would be expected to improve net oxygen delivery to the muscle, improve aerobic performance, and reduce fatigability. The effects of testosterone on fatigue and vitality have been studied in some randomized trials. Endogenous levels of total and free testosterone are not significantly associated with vitality in older hypogonadal men with sexual dysfunction, diminished vitality, and/or mobility limitation ( 114 ). In the Vitality Trial of the TTrials, testosterone treatment for 1-year did not improve vitality in older men with low vitality measured using the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT)-scale but men receiving testosterone did report a small but statistically significant improvement in mood. These findings are consistent with other randomized controlled studies ( 23 , 171 , 190 ), showing no clear benefit on fatigue and health-related quality of life with testosterone therapy. Supraphysiologic doses of androgenic steroids such as those abused by athletes and recreational bodybuilders have been associated with aggressive responses to provocative situations ( 411 ), increased scores on Young’s manic scale, and with affective and psychotic disorders in some individuals ( 412 ); these adverse effects have not been reported with physiologic testosterone replacement. By improving some aspects of physical and sexual function, testosterone supplementation might be expected to improve health-related quality of life.
