Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


adverse effects have not been reported with physiologic testosterone replacement. By improving some aspects of physical and sexual function, testosterone supplementation might be expected to improve health-related quality of life. However, only a few small trials have evaluated the effects of testosterone on health-related quality of life. A systematic review of a small number of randomized trials has not revealed a significant improvement in composite health-related quality of life scores, but testosterone therapy improves scores on the physical component of MOS SF-36 ( 16 , 159 ). Risks of Testosterone Administration in Older Men Short-term testosterone administration in healthy, young, androgen-deficient men with classical hypogonadism is associated with a low frequency of relatively mild adverse effects such as acne, oiliness of skin, and breast tenderness. However, the long-term risks of testosterone supplementation in older men are largely unknown. There are several unique considerations in older men that may increase their risks of testosterone administration. Serum total and free testosterone concentrations are higher in older men than young men at any dose of testosterone therapy, due to decreased testosterone clearance in older men ( 61 ). Older men exhibit greater increments in hemoglobin and hematocrit in response to testosterone administration than young men ( 321 ), adjusting for testosterone dose. Altered responsiveness of older men to testosterone administration might make them susceptible to a higher frequency of adverse events, such as erythrocytosis, or to unique adverse events not observed in young hypogonadal men. The baseline prevalence of disorders such as prostate cancer, benign prostatic hypertrophy, and cardiovascular disease that might be exacerbated by testosterone administration is high in older men; therefore, small changes in risk in either direction could have enormous public health impact. Furthermore, the clustering of co-morbid conditions in the frail elderly might render these men more susceptible to the adverse effects of testosterone therapy than healthy young hypogonadal men. The contraindications for testosterone administration include history of prostate or breast cancer ( 16 ). Benign prostatic hypertrophy by itself is not a contraindication, unless it is associated with severe symptoms, as indicated by IPSS symptom score of greater than 21. Testosterone should not be given without prior evaluation and treatment to men with baseline hematocrit greater than 50%, severe untreated sleep apnea, or congestive heart failure with Class III or IV symptoms ( 16 ). Testosterone suppresses spermatogenesis and should not be prescribed to men who are considering
