Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


severe untreated sleep apnea, or congestive heart failure with Class III or IV symptoms ( 16 ). Testosterone suppresses spermatogenesis and should not be prescribed to men who are considering having a child in the near future. The risks of testosterone administration include acne, oiliness of skin, erythrocytosis, induction or exacerbation of sleep apnea, leg edema, transient breast tenderness or enlargement, and reversible suppression of baseline spermatogenesis ( 16 ) ( Table 2 ). Abnormalities of liver enzymes, hepatic neoplasms, and peliosis hepatis that have been reported previously with orally administered, 17-alpha alkylated androgens, have not been observed with replacement doses of transdermal or injectable testosterone formulations. The two major areas of concern and uncertainty are the effects of long-term testosterone administration on prostate cancer and major adverse cardiovascular events. Table 2. Potential Adverse Effects of Testosterone Replacement in Older Men View in own window Adverse Events for Which There is Evidence of Association with Testosterone Administration 1. Erythrocytosis 2. Acne and oily skin 3. Detection of subclinical prostate cancer 4. Growth of metastatic prostate cancer 5. Reduced sperm production and fertility Potential Adverse Events for Which There is Weak Evidence of Association with Testosterone Administration 1. Gynecomastia 2. Male pattern balding (familial) 3. Growth of breast cancer 4. Induction of worsening of obstructive sleep apnea Formulation Specific Adverse Effects 1. Oral Tablets (not recommended) Effects on liver enzymes and HDL cholesterol (methyltestosterone) 2. Pellet Implants -. Infection, extrusion of pellet 3. Intramuscular Injections Fluctuations in mood or libido Pain at injection site Coughing episodes immediately after injection 4. Transdermal Patches Skin reaction at the patch application site 5. Transdermal Gel Potential risk of transference to partner Skin irritation and odor at application site Stickiness, slow drying, dripping 6. Buccal Testosterone Tablets Alterations in taste Irritation of gums Adapted with permission from the Endocrine Society Guideline for Testosterone Therapy in Men with Hypogonadism in: Bhasin et al J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2018;103(5):1715-1744. TESTOSTERONE EFFECTS ON THE RISK OF ATHEROSCLEROTIC HEART DISEASE The long-term consequences of testosterone supplementation on the risk of heart disease remain unknown and have been the subject of debate ( 145 , 413-417 ). Some known effects of testosterone such as increase in hematocrit, suppression of plasma HDL cholesterol, and salt and water retention, might be expected to increase cardiovascular risk. Some other effects such as testosterone’s vasodilator effect on coronary arteries resulting in increased coronary blood
