Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


HDL cholesterol, and salt and water retention, might be expected to increase cardiovascular risk. Some other effects such as testosterone’s vasodilator effect on coronary arteries resulting in increased coronary blood flow, reduction of whole body and abdominal fat mass, and improved brachial reactivity might be perceived as beneficial. Testosterone’s effects on coagulation are complex; testosterone administration is associated with stimulation of both anti-coagulant and pro-coagulant proteins. Androgen Effects on Plasma Lipids Cross-sectional studies of middle-aged men found a positive relationship between serum testosterone levels and plasma HDL-cholesterol concentrations ( 415 , 418-421 ). Lower testosterone levels in men are associated with higher levels of dense LDL particles ( 418 ), triglycerides ( 421 , 422 ) and prothrombotic factors ( 423 ). The effects of androgen supplementation on plasma lipids depend on the dose, the route of administration (oral or parenteral), the type of androgen (aromatizable or not), and the subject population (whether young or old, and hypogonadal or not). Supraphysiological doses of testosterone and non-aromatizable androgens frequently employed by bodybuilders undoubtedly decrease plasma HDL-cholesterol levels ( 424-427 ). However, administration of replacement doses of testosterone in older men has been associated with only a modest decrease or no change in plasma HDL-cholesterol ( 16 , 22 , 23 , 25 , 184 , 186-189 , 428-430 ), and without a significant effect on cholesterol efflux capacity from macrophages ( 431 ), suggesting preserved HDL function. Androgens and Other Cardiovascular Risk Factors Cross-sectional studies have found a positive association between circulating testosterone concentrations and tissue plasminogen activator activity ( 432 ), and a negative relationship between testosterone and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 activity, fibrinogen, and some other prothrombotic factors ( 432 ), suggesting an antithrombotic effect of testosterone. However, testosterone increases hematocrit ( 433 ), as well as neutrophil, monocyte and platelet counts ( 434 ). In men, higher neutrophil counts – even within the normal range - are associated with cardiovascular disease ( 435 ). Similarly, higher monocyte counts within the normal range have been suggested as a risk-factor for coronary artery plaque formation and cardiovascular mortality ( 436 ). Additionally, testosterone administration increases thromboxane A2 receptor density on human platelets, increasing platelet aggregability ex vivo ( 437 , 438 ). Observational studies have not found a consistent relationship between testosterone treatment and the risk of venous thromboembolism ( 439-443 ), although one study reported a small increase in VTE
