Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


). Observational studies have not found a consistent relationship between testosterone treatment and the risk of venous thromboembolism ( 439-443 ), although one study reported a small increase in VTE risk in the first few months after starting testosterone treatment ( 439 ). Cross-sectional studies have reported conflicting findings on the association of endogenous testosterone levels and inflammatory markers ( 444-449 ). Intervention trials of testosterone generally have not found a significant effect of testosterone on inflammatory markers ( 430 , 450 ). Even supraphysiological doses of testosterone have been found not to affect C-reactive protein ( 451 ). Similarly, a prospective cohort study did not find meaningful changes in inflammatory markers in men with prostate cancer receiving androgen deprivation therapy ( 452 ). Androgens and Coronary Artery Disease Whether variation of testosterone within the normal range is associated with risk of coronary artery disease remains controversial. Of the 30 cross-sectional studies reviewed by Alexandersen ( 145 ), 18 reported lower testosterone levels in men with coronary heart disease, 11 found similar testosterone levels in controls and men with coronary artery disease and 1 found higher levels of DHEAS. Prospective studies have failed to reveal an association of total testosterone levels and coronary artery disease ( 146-150 , 453-455 ). The common carotid artery intimal media thickness, a marker of generalized atherosclerosis, is negatively associated with circulating testosterone levels ( 150 ). One interventional study ( 456 ), reported that testosterone undecanoate given orally improved angina pectoris in men with coronary heart disease. Testosterone infusion acutely improves coronary blood flow in a canine model and in men with coronary artery disease ( 457-463 ). Short-term administration of testosterone induces a beneficial effect on exercise-induced myocardial ischemia in men with coronary artery disease ( 462 ). This effect may be related to a direct vasodilator effect of testosterone on the coronary arteries resulting in increased coronary blood flow. Testosterone replacement has been shown to increase the time to 1-mm ST-segment depression ( 460 ). However, in another study, there were no differences between the placebo or testosterone groups in peak heart rate, systolic blood pressure, maximal rate pressure product, perfusion imaging scores, or the onset of ST-segment depression ( 462 ). Yue et al ( 463 ) reported that testosterone induces endothelium-independent relaxation of rabbit coronary arteries via potassium conductance. Testosterone is a potent vasodilator; it induces nitric oxide synthesis in
