Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


Yue et al ( 463 ) reported that testosterone induces endothelium-independent relaxation of rabbit coronary arteries via potassium conductance. Testosterone is a potent vasodilator; it induces nitric oxide synthesis in human aortic endothelial cells in vitro ( 464 ). Testosterone has been shown to be an inhibitor of L-type Ca 2+ channel. In human cells transfected with α 1C subunit of the human cardiovascular L-type Ca 2+ channel, testosterone inhibits these calcium channels with a potency that is similar to that of dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers ( 465 ). Effects of Testosterone Supplementation on Atherosclerosis Progression In some animal models, orchiectomy accelerates and testosterone administration retards atherogenesis progression ( 466 ). The protective effect of testosterone on aortic atherogenesis in this preclinical model is mediated through its conversion to estradiol by the CYP19A1 in the blood vessel wall ( 466 ). Two large placebo-controlled trials have evaluated the effects of testosterone treatment on atherogenesis progression in middle-aged and older men. The Testosterone’s Effects on Atherosclerosis Progression in Aging Men (TEAAM) Trial determined the effects of testosterone therapy on progression of subclinical atherosclerosis in the common carotid artery using sonographic measurement of common carotid artery intima-media thickness (CCA-IMT) and the coronary artery calcium scores measured using MDCT. The participants in the TEAAM Trial were 308 men, 60 years and older, with total testosterone between 100 and 400 ng/dL or free testosterone below 50 pg/mL ( 23 ). Men were randomized to receive either 75 mg of transdermal testosterone gel or placebo gel daily and received for 3 years. Neither the progression of CCA-IMT nor coronary artery calcium scores differed between the men randomized to the testosterone and placebo groups ( Figure 12 ) ( 23 ). Figure 12. Effects of testosterone administration on atherosclerosis progression. Panels A and B show data from the TEAAM trial (Basaria et al. JAMA. 2015;314(6):570-81; figure reproduced with permission from JAMA) Panel C shows data from the Cardiovascular Trial of the TTrials (data from Budoff et al. JAMA. 2017;317(7):708-716; figure adapted from Gagliano-Jucá & Basaria, Asian J Androl. 2018;20(2):131-137). In the cardiovascular trial of the TTrials, 138 men with serum total testosterone below 275 ng/dL received either testosterone gel or placebo gel for one year and were evaluated by coronary computed tomographic angiography for progression of non-calcified and calcified coronary artery plaque volume, as well as coronary artery calcium score ( 467 ). Consistent with the
