Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


were evaluated by coronary computed tomographic angiography for progression of non-calcified and calcified coronary artery plaque volume, as well as coronary artery calcium score ( 467 ). Consistent with the findings of the TEAAM Trial, the changes in coronary artery calcium scores did not differ between the testosterone and placebo groups over one year of intervention. However, the increase in non-calcified plaque volume (primary endpoint) was significantly greater in men assigned to the testosterone arm than in those assigned to placebo arm ( Figure 12 ) ( 467 ); there were baseline differences in non-calcified plaque volume between the two groups. The clinical implications of these findings to cardiovascular risk remain to be established. Testosterone and Cardiac Arrhythmias Testosterone has important effects in cardiac electrophysiology ( 468 ); it increases potassium currents derived from the human ether-a-go-go related gene (hERG) ( 469 ), and inhibits the depolarizing delayed calcium current ( I CaL ) ( 470 ), with its effects on I CaL being more meaningful than on hERG ( 471 ). These effects lead to shortening of ventricular cardiomyocyte repolarization time, which can be seen in the electrocardiogram as shortening of the heart-rate corrected QT interval (QTc). Indeed, cross-sectional studies have observed a negative association between serum testosterone levels and QTc duration ( 472 ). Additionally, in randomized trials of testosterone replacement to men with low testosterone levels, testosterone treatment shortened QTc duration in community-dwelling older men ( 473 ) and in men with chronic heart failure ( 474 ). Similarly, in a prospective cohort study, androgen deprivation therapy in men with prostate cancer was associated with QTc prolongation compared with men with prostate cancer not receiving the therapy ( 475 ). As QTc prolongation is associated with an increased risk of ventricular tachyarrhythmias (torsades de pointes) and sudden cardiac death ( 476-478 ), it is not surprising that androgen deprivation therapy is associated with a higher risk of arrhythmia, cardiac conduction disturbances and sudden death ( 479 , 480 ). A small case series study and analysis of the European pharmacovigilance database concluded that “ conditions or drugs leading to male hypogonadism were associated with torsades de pointes ”, and “ correction of hypogonadism with testosterone replacement therapy can treat or prevent torsades de pointes ” ( 481 ). Cross-sectional studies have also linked low androgen levels in men to an increased risk of atrial fibrillation ( 482-484
