Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


can treat or prevent torsades de pointes ” ( 481 ). Cross-sectional studies have also linked low androgen levels in men to an increased risk of atrial fibrillation ( 482-484 ), and normalization of testosterone levels with testosterone replacement is associated with a decreased incidence of atrial fibrillation compared with untreated hypogonadal men ( 485 ). These findings need corroboration in randomized trials. The Effects of Testosterone on Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events (MACE) To-date, no randomized trials have been large enough or of sufficiently long duration to determine the effects of testosterone treatment on MACE ( 416 ). The frequency of MACE reported in randomized testosterone trials has been low—even lower than that expected for the age and comorbid conditions of the participants ( 18 , 486 , 487 ). A randomized trial of testosterone in older men (The TOM Trial) with mobility limitation was stopped early due to a higher frequency of cardiovascular-related events in men assigned to testosterone than in those assigned to placebo ( 22 ), heightening concern about the cardiovascular safety of testosterone in frail older men. In contrast to many other testosterone trials in older men, which recruited relatively healthy older men, the participants in the TOM trial had a high prevalence of chronic conditions, such as heart disease, diabetes mellitus, obesity, hypertension, and hyperlipidaemia ( 22 ). Men, 75 years of age or older, and men with high on-treatment testosterone levels seemed to be at the greatest risk of cardiovascular-related events. In secondary analyses, these events were found to be associated with changes in serum free testosterone and estradiol levels ( 488 ). The dose of testosterone used in the TOM trial was higher than that used in some previous trials, but not dissimilar from or lower than that used in some other trials. The cardiovascular events were small in number and of variable clinical significance. The TOM trial was not designed for cardiovascular events; therefore, the cardiovascular events were not a pre-specified endpoint, and were not collected in a standardized manner, nor adjudicated prospectively. Additionally, many of the cardiovascular events were not MACE. The higher cardiovascular adverse event incidence in testosterone-treated older men observed in the TOM trial was not reproduced in two larger trials of longer duration published more recently; in the TEAAM trial, the incidence of major adverse cardiac events throughout the 3 years of intervention was similar between groups (
