Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


larger trials of longer duration published more recently; in the TEAAM trial, the incidence of major adverse cardiac events throughout the 3 years of intervention was similar between groups ( 23 ). Similarly, in the TTrials, the number of MACE (myocardial infarction, stroke or death related to cardiovascular disease) during the one year of treatment was similar in the two groups, with seven men in each group experiencing an event ( 26 ). The number of MACE in the TEAAM and Ttrials were too few to permit strong inferences on the effects of testosterone treatment on MACE. The Hormonal Regulators of Muscle and Metabolism in Aging (HORMA) trial reported a significantly greater increase in blood pressure in men treated with testosterone than in those treated with placebo ( 489 ). Testosterone administration causes salt and water retention ( 490 ), which can induce edema and worsen pre-existing heart failure. Several meta-analyses of randomized testosterone trials have been published ( 413 , 486 , 487 , 491 , 492 ); however, these meta-analyses are limited by the small size of most trials, heterogeneity of study populations, poor quality of adverse-event reporting, and short treatment duration in many trials. None of the testosterone trials to date was sufficiently powered to adequately assess safety outcomes. The rigor of adverse-event reporting varied greatly among studies. The MACE was not ascertained rigorously nor adjudicated in most trials except in the TTrials. The meta-analyses of randomized testosterone trials ( 487 , 491-494 ) and retrospective analyses of electronic medical records data ( 495 - 498 ) have also yielded inconsistent findings. These meta-analyses and pharmacovigilance studies have suffered from many limitations that are inherent in retrospective analysis of electronic medical records data. These studies included heterogeneous populations, and differed in the duration of intervention and study design. They used variable definitions and ascertainment of cardiovascular outcomes. The cardiovascular events were not prespecified, not collected prospectively and were not adjudicated. Treatment indications, treatment regimens, on-treatment testosterone levels and exposure differed among studies. These studies also suffered from a potential for residual confounding in that the patients assigned to testosterone therapy differed from comparators in baseline cardiovascular risk factors. Because of these inherent limitations and inconsistency of findings, these epidemiologic studies do not permit strong inferences about the relation between testosterone therapy and mortality and cardiovascular outcomes. Synopsis of the Effects of Testosterone on Cardiovascular Risk The long-term
