Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


these epidemiologic studies do not permit strong inferences about the relation between testosterone therapy and mortality and cardiovascular outcomes. Synopsis of the Effects of Testosterone on Cardiovascular Risk The long-term effects of testosterone replacement therapy on MACE remain unknown. The FDA conducted an extensive review and concluded “ the studies...have significant limitations that weaken their evidentiary value for confirming a causal relationship between testosterone and adverse cardiovascular outcomes ”. Nevertheless, the FDA directed the pharmaceutical companies to add in the drug label information about a possible increased risk of cardiovascular events with testosterone use. An independent review conducted by the European Medicines Agency also found no consistent evidence of an increased risk of coronary heart disease associated with testosterone treatment of hypogonadal men. Long-term randomized trials of the effects of testosterone replacement on MACE are needed and are particularly important because even small changes in incidence rates could have significant public health impact. A large randomized, placebo-controlled trial to study the effects of testosterone replacement therapy on the incidence of major adverse cardiovascular events in men 45 to 80 years of age with low testosterone levels and one or more symptoms of testosterone deficiency, who are at increased risk for cardiovascular events is currently underway (The TRAVERSE Trial, NCT03518034 ). The intervention duration is up to 5 years in this trial of over 6,000 men. The efficacy outcomes include adjudicated clinical fractures, remission of low-grade persistent depressive disorder (dysthymia), progression from pre-diabetes to diabetes, correction of anemia, and overall sexual activity, sexual desire, and erectile function. This randomized, placebo-controlled trial offers an historical opportunity to advance our understanding of the cardiovascular safety and long-term efficacy of testosterone replacement in middle-aged and older hypogonadal men. TESTOSTERONE, DIABETES, AND METABOLIC SYNDROME Spontaneous ( 156 ) and experimentally induced ( 222 ) androgen deficiency is associated with increased fat mass, and testosterone replacement decreased fat mass in older men with low testosterone levels ( 16 ). In epidemiologic studies, low testosterone levels are associated with higher levels of abdominal adiposity ( 499 , 500 ). Testosterone administration promotes the mobilization of triglycerides from the abdominal adipose tissue in middle-aged men ( 501 ). Surgical castration in rats impairs insulin sensitivity; physiologic testosterone replacement reverses this metabolic derangement ( 502 ). However, high doses of testosterone impair insulin sensitivity in castrated rats ( 502 ), suggesting a biphasic relationship in which both low and
