Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


In a Mendelian randomization analysis of the UK Biobank data, genetically determined free testosterone levels were associated with the risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus in a sexually dimorphic manner after adjusting for SHBG levels; men with low genetically determined free testosterone levels had increased risk of type 2 diabetes while women with low genetically determined free testosterone levels had reduced risk of type 2 diabetes ( 527 ). Figure 13. Circulating Concentrations of SHBG, but not total or free testosterone, were associated prospectively with risk of incident diabetes in the Massachusetts Male Aging Study (MMAS). In a prospective analysis of data from the Massachusetts male Aging Study, total testosterone (left panel) and free testosterone (middle panel) were not associated significantly with risk of incident diabetes. Only SHBG concentrations were associated with incident diabetes in longitudinal analysis. Reproduced with permission from Lakshman et al J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2010;65(5):503-9. Interventional studies have yielded inconsistent results. Acute and severe androgen deficiency induced by administration of a GnRH agonist or antagonist worsens measures of insulin sensitivity; acute withdrawal of testosterone therapy in men with idiopathic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism ( 528 ) and administration of androgen deprivation therapy in men with prostate cancer is associated with the worsening of insulin sensitivity ( 452 , 529 , 530 ). Men with prostate cancer who are receiving androgen deprivation therapy are at increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome ( 479 , 529 , 531 ). In the TIMES2 study ( 532 ), men with type 2 diabetes mellitus and/or metabolic syndrome were randomized to either 2% testosterone gel or placebo gel for 6 months. Randomization to testosterone arm was associated with greater improvements in sexual function and plasma lipid levels than placebo. However, the changes in HbA 1c levels did not differ between groups. Homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR), a marker of insulin resistance, improved modestly in men who were assigned to testosterone compared with placebo ( 532 ). Dhindsa et al reported improvement of insulin sensitivity with testosterone replacement for 24 weeks in hypogonadotropic hypogonadal men with type 2 diabetes ( 511 ). Overall, studies have failed to show improvements in diabetes outcomes or consistent changes in measures of insulin sensitivity ( 18 , 430 , 451 , 532-536 ) even though interventional trials have found a consistent reduction in whole body fat as well as
