Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


participants in the UK Biobank followed for a mean of 6.9 years, higher genetically determined free testosterone was associated with a higher risk of prostate cancer, while total testosterone was not associated with prostate cancer risk ( Figure 15 ) ( 546 ). The men with Klinefelter Syndrome have lower risk of prostate cancer than the general population. Taken together, these data suggest that life-long exposure to testosterone treatment in hypogonadal men could potentially increase the risk of prostate cancer. Figure15. Mendelian Randomization: Genetically Determined Bio-Testosterone Associated with Increased Prostate Cancer Risk. Legend: UK Biobank Study: Genetic determinants of bioavailable testosterone were positively associated with risk of prostate cancer in men and ER+ breast cancer and endometrial cancer in women. Reproduced with permission from: Ruth KS, et al. Nat Med. 2020;26(2):252‐258. Prostate cancer is an androgen–dependent tumor, and testosterone treatment is known to promote the growth of metastatic prostate cancer ( 544 , 547 ). Testosterone administration has been historically contraindicated in men with history of prostate cancer ( 16 , 543 ). The prevalence of subclinical, microscopic foci of prostate cancer in older men is high ( 548-555 ). There is concern that testosterone administration might make these subclinical foci of cancer grow and become clinically overt. In addition, older men with low testosterone levels may have prostate cancer ( 556 , 557 ). Morgentaler et al ( 556 , 557 ) reported a high prevalence of biopsy-detectable prostate cancer in men with low total or free testosterone levels despite normal PSA levels and normal digital rectal examinations. However, this study did not have a control group, and we do not know whether sextant biopsies of age-matched controls with normal testosterone levels would yield a similarly high incidence of biopsy-detectable cancer. Therefore, this study should not be interpreted to conclude that there is a higher prevalence of prostate cancer in older men with low testosterone levels, or that low testosterone levels are an indication for performing prostate biopsy. Effects of Testosterone Therapy on Prostate Events None of the testosterone trials in middle-aged or older men had sufficient power or intervention duration to detect meaningful differences in the incidence of prostate cancer between testosterone and placebo-treated men. Testosterone treatment of hypogonadal men increases PSA levels ( 16 , 558 ), which may lead to urological referral for prostate biopsy. A systematic review of randomized testosterone trials in middle-aged and older
