Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


hypogonadal men increases PSA levels ( 16 , 558 ), which may lead to urological referral for prostate biopsy. A systematic review of randomized testosterone trials in middle-aged and older men found ( 413 ) that men treated with testosterone in clinical trials were at significantly higher risk for undergoing prostate biopsy than placebo-treated men ( 413 ). Because of the high prevalence of subclinical prostate cancer in older men, the higher number of prostate biopsies in testosterone-treated men could lead to increased detection rates of subclinical prostate cancer in comparison with placebo-treated men. Thus, testosterone therapy of middle-aged and older men is associated with a higher risk of prostate biopsy and a bias towards detection of a higher number of prostate events ( 18 , 413 ). Administration of exogenous testosterone or suppression of circulating levels of testosterone by administration of a GnRH antagonist is not associated with proportionate changes in intra-prostatic testosterone or DHT concentrations. For instance, in a randomized controlled trial, Marks et al ( 559 ) measured intraprostatic testosterone and DHT levels in older men treated with placebo or testosterone. Surprisingly, intraprostatic DHT concentrations were not significantly higher in testosterone-treated men than in placebo-treated men ( 559 ). Similarly, the expression levels of androgen-dependent genes in the prostate were not significantly altered by testosterone administration ( 559 ). In separate studies, lowering of circulating testosterone levels by administration of a GnRH antagonist was not associated with changes in intraprostatic androgen concentrations ( 560 , 561 ). Effects of Testosterone Replacement on Serum PSA Levels Serum PSA levels are lower in androgen–deficient men and are restored to normal following testosterone replacement ( 16 , 558 , 562-570 ). Lowering of serum testosterone concentrations by withdrawal of androgen therapy in young, hypogonadal men is associated with a decrease in serum PSA levels. Similarly, treatment of men with benign prostatic hyperplasia with a 5-alpha reductase inhibitor, finasteride, is associated with a significant lowering of serum and prostatic PSA levels ( 570 , 571 ). However, serum PSA levels do not increase progressively in healthy hypogonadal men with replacement doses of testosterone. The increase in PSA levels during testosterone replacement might trigger evaluation and biopsy in some patients ( 16 , 543 ). More intensive PSA screening and follow-up of men receiving testosterone replacement might lead to an increased number of prostate biopsies and the detection of subclinical prostate cancers
