Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


of PSA data from the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging, reported that PSA velocity, defined as the annual rate of change of PSA, is different in men who develop prostate cancer than in those who do not ( 575-577 ). Thus, PSA velocity greater than 0.7 ng/ml/year was unusual in men without prostate cancer whose baseline PSA was between 4 and 10 ng/ml ( 575-577 ). However, most men being considered for testosterone replacement will have baseline PSA less than 4 ng/ml. In a subsequent analysis, the same group reported that the PSA velocity in men with baseline PSA between 2 and 4 ng/ml was 0.2 ng/ml/year ( 577 ). Because test-to-retest variability in PSA measurement is far greater than this threshold, it is likely that the use of this threshold of 0.2 ng/ml/year to select men for prostate biopsy would lead to many unnecessary biopsies. In eugonadal, young men, administration of supraphysiological doses of testosterone does not further increase serum PSA levels ( 166 , 169 , 578 ). These data are consistent with dose response studies in young men that demonstrate that maximal serum concentrations of PSA are achieved at testosterone levels that are at the lower end of the normal male range; higher testosterone concentrations are not associated with higher PSA levels ( 166 , 169 ). In summary, these data suggest that the administration of replacement doses of testosterone to androgen-deficient men can be expected to produce a modest increment in serum PSA levels. Increments in PSA levels after testosterone supplementation in androgen-deficient men are generally less than 0.5 ng/mL and increments in excess of 1.4 ng/mL over a 3–6-month period are unusual. Nevertheless, administration of testosterone to men with baseline PSA levels between 2.6 and 4.0 ng/mL will cause PSA levels to exceed 4.0 ng/mL in some men. Increments in PSA levels above 4 ng/mL will trigger a urological consultation and many of these men will be asked to undergo prostate biopsies. However, considering the controversy over prostate cancer screening and monitoring, the decision to monitor PSA levels during testosterone treatment and the decision to refer a patient for consideration of prostate biopsy should be made only after informing him of the risks and benefits of prostate cancer screening and monitoring and engaging the patient in a shared decision-making process. Monitoring PSA Levels in Older Men Receiving Testosterone Replacement ( Tables 3 and 4 )
