Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


of prostate cancer screening and monitoring and engaging the patient in a shared decision-making process. Monitoring PSA Levels in Older Men Receiving Testosterone Replacement ( Tables 3 and 4 ) Older men considering testosterone supplementation should undergo evaluation of risk factors for prostate cancer; the Endocrine Society guideline suggest a baseline PSA measurement and a digital prostate examination ( 16 ). Prostate cancer screening has some risks; therefore, initiation of prostate monitoring should be a shared decision, made only after a discussion of the risks and benefits of prostate cancer monitoring. Men with history of prostate cancer, should not be given androgen supplementation and those with palpable abnormalities of the prostate or PSA levels greater than 3 ng/ml should undergo urological evaluation. After initiation of testosterone replacement therapy, PSA levels should be repeated at 3 months and annually thereafter ( 16 ). Although measurements of free PSA and PSA density have been proposed to enhance the specificity of PSA measurement, long term data, especially from studies of testosterone replacement in older men, are lacking. Considering the interassay variability and the longitudinal change in PSA previously discussed, an Endocrine Society Expert Panel recently suggested that men receiving testosterone replacement should be referred to urological consultation if: 1) PSA increases more than 1.4 ng/mL in the first 12 months of treatment; 2) a PSA above 4 ng/mL is confirmed; or 3) a prostatic abnormality is detected on digital rectal examination ( 16 ). After 12 months of treatment, prostate monitoring should follow standard guidelines for prostate cancer screening taking into account the age and race of the patient ( 16 ). Table 3. Recommendations for Monitoring of Men Receiving Testosterone Therapy View in own window A. Explain the potential benefits and risks of monitoring for prostate cancer and engage the patient in shared decision making regarding the prostate monitoring plan. B. Evaluate the patient at 3–12 months after treatment initiation and then annually to assess whether symptoms have responded to treatment and whether the patient is suffering from any adverse effects C. Monitor testosterone concentrations 3–6 months after initiation of therapy: --Therapy should aim to raise testosterone into the mid-normal range. --Injectable testosterone enanthate or cypionate: measure testosterone midway between injections. If midinterval T is >600 ng/dL (24.5 nmol/L) or <350 ng/dL (14.1 nmol/L), adjust dose or frequency. --Transdermal gels: assess testosterone 2–8 h following the gel application, after the patient has
