Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


midinterval T is >600 ng/dL (24.5 nmol/L) or <350 ng/dL (14.1 nmol/L), adjust dose or frequency. --Transdermal gels: assess testosterone 2–8 h following the gel application, after the patient has been on treatment for at least 1 week; adjust dose to achieve testosterone in the mid-normal range. --Transdermal patches: assess testosterone 3–12 h after application; adjust dose to achieve concentration in the mid-normal range. --Buccal T bioadhesive tablet: assess concentrations immediately before or after application of fresh system. --Testosterone pellets: measure concentrations at the end of the dosing interval. Adjust the number of pellets and/or the dosing interval to maintain serum T concentrations in the mid-normal range. --Oral T undecanoate: monitor serum T concentrations 3–5h after ingestion with a fat-containing meal. --Injectable testosterone undecanoate: measure serum T levels at the end of the dosing interval just prior to the next injection and aim to achieve nadir levels in low-mid range. D. Check hematocrit at baseline, 3–6 months after starting treatment, and then annually. If hematocrit is >54%, stop therapy until hematocrit decreases to a safe level; evaluate the patient for hypoxia and sleep apnea; reinitiate therapy with a reduced dose. E. Measure BMD of lumbar spine and/or femoral neck after 1–2 year of testosterone therapy in hypogonadal men with osteoporosis, consistent with regional standard of care. F. For men 55–69 years of age and for men 40–69 years of age who are at increased risk for prostate cancer who choose prostate monitoring, perform digital rectal examination and check PSA level before initiating treatment; check PSA and perform digital rectal examination 3–12 months after initiating testosterone treatment, and then in accordance with guidelines for prostate cancer screening depending on the age and race of the patient. G. Obtain urological consultation if there is: 1. An increase in serum PSA concentration.1.4 ng/mL within 12 months of initiating testosterone treatment 2. A confirmed PSA > 4 ng/mL at any time 3. Detection of a prostatic abnormality on digital rectal examination 4. Substantial worsening of lower urinary tract symptoms Adapted with permission from the Endocrine Society Guideline for Testosterone Therapy in Men with Hypogonadism in: Bhasin et al J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2018;103(5):1715-1744. Table 4. Indications for Urological Consultation in Men Receiving Testosterone Replacement View in own window 1. An increase in serum or plasma PSA concentration >1.4 ng/mL within any 12-month period after initiating testosterone treatment 2. A PSA >4.0 ng/mL 3. Detection
