Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


in young hypogonadal men during testosterone replacement therapy, but can occur in men with sleep apnea, significant smoking history, or chronic obstructive lung disease. Testosterone administration in older men is associated with greater increments in hemoglobin than observed in young, hypogonadal men ( 321 ). The magnitude of hemoglobin increase during testosterone therapy appears related to the testosterone dose, the increase in testosterone concentrations during testosterone therapy, and age ( 321 ). Testosterone replacement by means of a transdermal system has been reported to produce a lesser increase in hemoglobin levels than that associated with intramuscular testosterone enanthate and cypionate presumably because of the substantially higher testosterone dose and average circulating testosterone levels achieved with testosterone esters ( 586 ). Testosterone increases hemoglobin and hematocrit by multiple mechanisms ( 322 , 408 , 409 , 587 ). Testosterone administration stimulates iron-dependent erythropoiesis by suppressing hepcidin transcription and increasing iron availability for erythropoiesis ( 322 , 408 , 409 , 587 ). Additionally, testosterone stimulates erythropoiesis by a direct effect on bone marrow hematopoietic progenitors and increasing the numbers of myeloid progenitors. Testosterone also stimulates erythropoietin and alters the set-point of the relationship between erythropoietin and hemoglobin ( 322 ). Testosterone supplementation can correct anemia in older men with unexplained anemia of aging and anemia of inflammation ( 322 , 329 , 409 ). Suppression of testosterone secretion in men receiving androgen deprivation therapy reduces hematocrit and hemoglobin levels by slowing erythropoiesis independently of changes in erythropoietin levels ( 588 ). Monitoring Hematocrit During Testosterone Replacement Therapy ( Table 3 ) Hematocrit levels should be measured at baseline and 3 months after institution of testosterone replacement or after increase in dosage, and every 12 months thereafter. It is not clear what absolute hematocrit level or magnitude of change in hematocrit warrants discontinuation of testosterone administration. Plasma viscosity increases disproportionately as hematocrit rises above 50%. Hematocrit levels above 54% may be associated with increased risk of neuro-occlusive events. Therefore, testosterone dose should be withheld if hematocrit rises above 54%; once hematocrit falls to a safe level, testosterone therapy may be re-initiated at a reduced dose or with a different formulation ( 16 ). SLEEP APNEA Circulating testosterone concentrations are related to sleep rhythm and are generally higher during sleep than during waking hours ( 589-592 ). Testosterone secretory peaks coincide with the onset of rapid-eye movement sleep. Aging is associated with decreased
