Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


rhythm and are generally higher during sleep than during waking hours ( 589-592 ). Testosterone secretory peaks coincide with the onset of rapid-eye movement sleep. Aging is associated with decreased sleep efficiency, reduced numbers of REM sleep episodes, and altered REM sleep latency, which may contribute to lower circulating testosterone concentrations ( 590-594 ). The degree of sleep-disordered breathing increases with age and is associated with reduced overnight plasma bioavailable testosterone. Thus, changes in sleep efficiency and architecture are associated with alterations in testosterone levels in older men ( 590-594 ). Sleep apnea and disordered sleep are often associated with low testosterone levels ( 595 ), particularly in patients with more severe cases of OSA (i.e. severe hypoxemia) ( 596 ). Some potential mechanisms by which OSA may decrease endogenous testosterone levels include disruption of pulsatile luteinizing hormone secretion from restricted sleep and/or recurrent nocturnal hypoxia ( 597 , 598 ), which is further exacerbated by obesity. OSA treatment with continuous positive airway pressure has been demonstrated to increase serum testosterone levels ( 599 ). Testosterone can induce or exacerbate sleep apnea in some individuals, particularly those with obesity or chronic obstructive lung disease ( 589-594 , 600 ). This appears to be due to direct effects of testosterone on laryngeal muscles. Testosterone administration depresses hypercapnic ventilator drive and induces apnea in primate infants ( 594 ). Short-term administration of high doses of testosterone shortens sleep duration and worsens sleep apnea in older men ( 601 ). The frequency of sleep apnea in randomized testosterone trials in older men has been very low ( 16 , 486 ) and no randomized trial has reported an increased incidence of OSA or OSA worsening in men randomized to the testosterone arm compared to the placebo arm. Testosterone should not be given to men with severe untreated OSA without evaluation and treatment of sleep apnea. Several screening instruments can be used to detect sleep apnea. A history of loud snoring, and daytime somnolence, in an obese individual with hypertension increases the likelihood of having sleep apnea; such patients should be referred for a sleep study. BREAST ENLARGEMENT AND TENDERNESS Testosterone administration can induce breast tenderness; however, gynecomastia is an uncommon complication of testosterone replacement therapy. Even with administration of supraphysiological doses of testosterone enanthate, less than 4% of men in a contraceptive trial developed detectable breast enlargement ( 580 ). Breast cancer is
