Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


replacement therapy. Even with administration of supraphysiological doses of testosterone enanthate, less than 4% of men in a contraceptive trial developed detectable breast enlargement ( 580 ). Breast cancer is listed as a contraindication for testosterone replacement therapy primarily because of concern that increased estrogen levels during testosterone treatment might exacerbate breast cancer growth. There are, however, few case reports of breast cancer occurring as a complication of testosterone treatment. Men with Klinefelter’s syndrome have a higher risk of breast cancer than the general population ( 602 ). An Individualized, Patient-Centric Approach to Shared Decision Making in the Evaluation and Treatment of Older Men with Low Testosterone Levels Recent large randomized clinical trials, especially the TTrials, have substantially expanded our understanding of the efficacy and short-term safety of testosterone in older men with low testosterone levels. However, none of the trials has been long enough or large enough to determine the effects of testosterone treatment on major adverse cardiovascular events and prostate cancer risk. Furthermore, the long-term efficacy of testosterone treatment in improving hard outcomes – physical disability, fractures, falls, progression to dementia, progression from prediabetes to diabetes, remission of late-life low grade persistent depressive disorder (dysthymia) - remains to be established. Adherence with testosterone treatment is poor and in one survey, nearly 50% of men prescribed testosterone, discontinued treatment within 3 months. Population level screening of all older men for androgen deficiency is not justified ( 16 ) because of the lack of agreement on a case definition, the paucity of data on the performance characteristics of the screening instruments (e.g., the ADAM questionnaire ( 603 ), the Aging Male Symptoms questionnaire ( 604 ), and the MMAS questionnaire ( 605 )) and the lack of clarity on the public health impact of the androgen deficiency syndrome in the general population. Recognizing the lack of evidence of the long-term safety and efficacy of testosterone therapy in older men with symptomatic androgen deficiency, the expert panel of the Endocrine Society recommended against testosterone therapy of all men 65 years or older with low testosterone levels ( 16 ). Instead, the panel suggested that “in men >65 years who have symptoms or conditions suggestive of testosterone deficiency (such as low libido or unexplained anemia) and consistently and unequivocally low morning testosterone, clinicians offer testosterone therapy on an individualized basis after explicit discussion of the potential risks and benefits” ( 16 ).
