Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


or unexplained anemia) and consistently and unequivocally low morning testosterone, clinicians offer testosterone therapy on an individualized basis after explicit discussion of the potential risks and benefits” ( 16 ). The decision to offer testosterone treatment to older men with low testosterone levels should be guided by an individualized assessment of potential benefits and risks ( Figure 17 ) ( 606 ). Determine whether the patient has clear evidence of testosterone deficiency recognizing the imprecision and inaccuracy of many available immunoassays and the substantial overlap in the symptoms of hypogonadism and aging per se . Perform a careful general health evaluation to identify conditions, such as prostate cancer, erythrocytosis, heart failure, or a hypercoagulable state that could increase the risk of harm. Weigh the burden of patient's symptoms and conditions associated with testosterone deficiency against the potential benefits and the uncertainty of long-term harm. Evaluate prostate cancer risk recognizing that prostate cancer screening and monitoring has some risks. Weigh the bother and distress associated with symptoms of testosterone deficiency and patient's values and risk tolerance against the uncertainty of benefits and long-term risks, and the burden, cost, and risks of treatment and monitoring. The participation of the patient who is well informed of the potential benefits and risks in the shared decision to initiate testosterone treatment can enable a more thoughtful treatment plan and increased adherence with the treatment and monitoring ( 606 ). Figure 17. An evidence-based, individualized approach to testosterone therapy in older men with testosterone deficiency. The decision to offer testosterone treatment to older men with low testosterone levels should be guided by an individualized assessment of potential benefits and risks. Testosterone deficiency needs to be evaluated using reliable assays for the measurement of total and free testosterone levels. Patients should also be evaluated for conditions that are likely to respond to testosterone replacement therapy (TRT) as well as conditions that could be adversely impacted, such as prostate cancer, erythrocytosis, heart failure, or a hypercoagulable state. It is important to consider each patient’s burden of symptoms, individual preferences, and risk tolerance against the uncertainty of long-term benefits and risks, the burden and risks of monitoring, and the cost. Reproduced with permission from Bhasin S. 2021. J Clin Invest. 2021;131(4):e146607. Testosterone therapy can be instituted using any of the available approved formulations based on considerations of pharmacokinetics, patient convenience and preference, cost, and formulation-specific adverse effects ( 16
