Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


Invest. 2021;131(4):e146607. Testosterone therapy can be instituted using any of the available approved formulations based on considerations of pharmacokinetics, patient convenience and preference, cost, and formulation-specific adverse effects ( 16 ). The men receiving testosterone therapy should be monitored using a standardized monitoring plan to facilitate early detection of adverse events and to minimize the risk of unnecessary prostate biopsies ( Table 2 ), as recommended by the Endocrine Society expert panel ( Table 3 ) ( 16 ). CHANGES IN THE SPERMATOGENIC COMPARTMENT OF THE TESTIS Women are more fertile below the age of 40, and fecundity decrease after age 35 and fertility ceases at the inception of menopause, around age 50. Increasing age in women confers greater risk for infertility, spontaneous abortion, and genetic and chromosomal defects among offspring. In contrast, there is no critical age at which sperm production or function, and fertility cease in men ( 607-614 ). Although serum testosterone concentrations decrease below the normal range in a significant minority of older men, men over the age of 60 years commonly father children; the oldest father on record was 94-years old ( 607 , 609 ). Even though many older men are fertile, the overall fertility and fecundity decline with aging. The interpretability of data on the effects of aging on male fertility is limited by the small size of the studies and the low overall event rates. Paternal age is associated with an increased risk of germ line mutations in FGFR2, FGFR3, and RET genes and inherited autosomal dominant diseases, such as Apert's syndrome, achondroplasia, and Costello Syndrome, respectively, in the offspring of older men ( 614-623 ). These monogenic disorders have been referred to as paternal age effect (PAE) disorders. Approximately one third of babies with diseases due to new autosomal dominant mutations are fathered by men aged 40 years or older ( 624 ). Some other disorders such as schizophrenia, autism, and bipolar disorder have also been linked to paternal age ( Figure 18 ) ( 615 , 616 , 622 , 623 ). The rate of de novo mutations increases with paternal age ( 622 ), which may contribute to the increase risk of neurodevelopmental diseases such as schizophrenia and autism ( 622 ). Figure 18. Impact of paternal age on incidence of schizophrenia and early-onset bipolar disorder. Increasing paternal age at conception increases the relative risk of having an offspring
