Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


( 622 ). Figure 18. Impact of paternal age on incidence of schizophrenia and early-onset bipolar disorder. Increasing paternal age at conception increases the relative risk of having an offspring with schizophrenia (panel A; figure adapted from Malaspina et al. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 2001 Apr;58(4):361-7.) and the odds ratio of having a child with early-onset bipolar disorder (compared to fathers aged 20 to 24 years; panel B; data derived from Frans et al. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 2008 Sep;65(9):1034-40) The accumulation of these de novo germ line mutations with increasing paternal age has been explained by the “selfish spermatogonial selection" hypothesis ( 618 , 619 ). According to this hypothesis, the somatic mutations in male germ cells that enhance the proliferation of germ cells could lead to within-testis expansion of mutant clonal lines ( 620 , 621 ), thus favoring the propagation of germ cells carrying these pathogenic mutations, and increasing the risk of mutations in the offspring of older fathers ( 620 , 621 ). Interestingly, the risk of autism has also been associated with the age of the father as well as the grandparent ( 623 ). These concerns have prompted the American Society of Reproductive Medicine to state in their guidelines that semen donors should be younger than 40 years of age so that potential hazards related to aging are diminished ( 610 ). Some cardiac defects have also been attributed to aberrant genetic input from older men. For instance, a case-control study of 4,110 individuals with congenital heart defects born between 1952 and 1973 in British Columbia, found a general pattern of increasing risk with increasing paternal age among cases relative to controls for ventricular septal defects, atrial septal defects, and patent ductus arteriosus ( 617 , 624 ). The risk of schizophrenia has also been reported to increase with paternal age ( 618 ) and possible loci affecting this risk have been identified ( 625 ). In addition, a modest proportion of preeclampsia, normally associated with increased maternal risk factors including age, might be attributable to an increase in paternal age although no gene loci have been identified ( 626 ). These observations need further corroboration. Although there is a positive association between paternal age and incidence of aneuploidy, it has been difficult to dissociate the effect of paternal age from the confounding influence of the advanced maternal age. After accounting for various confounders, there does
