Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


sperm concentration. In addition, there is significant heterogeneity in the populations studied; most of the studies examined data from semen of sperm donors while others examined men from infertility clinics. Sperm donors might represent a healthier group of men than the general population; conversely men in infertility clinics might be more likely to have abnormalities of sperm number or function. Even studies that have controlled for abstinence as well as alcohol and tobacco use have shown an age-related decrease in semen volume. In one study of men whose partners had bilateral tubal obstruction or absence of both tubes and who were treated by conventional IVF, the odds ratio of failure to conceive was higher for men 40 years of age or older ( 634 ). Table 5: Changes in Semen Quality and Fertility in Men with Age View in own window Parameter Age comparison Change Semen volume 30 versus ≥50 years 3-22% decrease Sperm concentration Varying None Abnormal sperm morphology ≤30 versus ≥ 50 years 4-18% increase Time to pregnancy <30-35 versus >30-50 years 5-20% increase Pregnancy rates <30 versus > 50 years 23-38% decrease Subfecundity Varying 11-250% increase From a Literature Review by Kidd et al., 2001 ( 501 ) CHANGES IN THE GERM CELL COMPARTMENT In a comparison of younger men (21-25 years) with older men (>50) referred for andrological evaluation, the ejaculate volume, progressive sperm motility, and sperm morphology were lower in older men than younger men after adjustment for duration of sexual abstinence ( 635 ). The older men also had a higher frequency of sperm tail defects, suggesting epididymal dysfunction ( 636 ). In addition, the fructose content was significantly lower in older men suggesting a defect in the seminal vesicle contribution to semen. There were no significant differences in sperm concentration and testicular size between the young and older men in this study. Necropsies on adult men of different ages have revealed that the testicular volume is lower only in men in the 8th decade of life ( 637 ). A recent study examined testicular germ cells obtained by orchiectomy from 36 older men with advanced prostate cancer and by testicular biopsy from 21 younger men with obstructive azoospermia, as controls ( 638 ). The ratios of primary spermatocytes, round spermatids, and elongated spermatids to Sertoli cells were significantly decreased in the testes of older men, but the ratio of spermatogonia to Sertoli cell
