Age-Related Changes in the Male Reproductive System
KEYWORDS: testosterone, men, levels, older, older men, testosterone levels, effects, associated, low, mass, age, function, bone, risk, prostate


The ratios of primary spermatocytes, round spermatids, and elongated spermatids to Sertoli cells were significantly decreased in the testes of older men, but the ratio of spermatogonia to Sertoli cell number remained unchanged ( 638 , 639 ). Older men are characterized by lower rates of germ cell apoptosis and cell proliferation compared with younger men, suggesting that germ cell proliferation and apoptosis diminish with aging ( 639 ). Other studies evaluating the fidelity of the germ cell compartment are cross-sectional and depend on analyses of sperm number and semen quality; large-scale chromosomal analyses in healthy community dwelling men are scarce as most data are derived from fertility clinics. A review of studies examining semen quality at different ages demonstrated significant age-related decrease in semen volume and sperm morphology. The change in sperm morphology has been hypothesized to be due to an increase in aneuploidy with age. Härkönen et al ( 628 ) found that sperm morphology was directly associated with the number of chromosomes in sperm and that men with higher aneuploidy rates for chromosomes 13, 18, 21, X and Y had lower sperm motility and sperm concentrations. Despite the changes in sperm morphology and motility from older men, in vitro fertilizing capacity of the sperm is well preserved ( 45 , 634 ). There are several difficulties in interpreting these data on age-related changes in sperm density and function. The normal range for sperm concentration in men is wide where sperm concentration above 15 million/ml (total sperm per ejaculate > 39 million) is considered normal. Thus, even though average sperm concentrations decline with aging, they are still are in the normal range ( 45 , 632 , 638 ). Furthermore, normal sperm counts do not always correlate with normal sperm function. Studies in flies demonstrate more germ cells during larval than adult stages suggesting age-related quiescence of the germ line ( 640 ). Significant age-related decreases in germ cells and spermatogenesis also have been reported in rodents and primates ( 641-645 ). The Brown Norway rat has been studied as a model of aging of the human male reproductive system because in this rodent model, serum testosterone levels decrease with aging, as they do in humans ( 642-644 ). Along with changes in hypothalamic-pituitary hormones, alterations in sperm counts, sperm maturation, Sertoli cell number, and progeny outcomes have been observed in this rodent model ( Table 6 )
