Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


art alike, with good repute for all time to come; but may the contrary befall me if I transgress and violate my oath. The endurance of the Hippocratic oath Paternalistic, irrelevant, inadequate, and possibly plagiarized from the followers of Pythagoras of Samos; it is argued that the Hippocratic oath has failed to evolve into anything more than a right of passage for physicians. Is it adequate to address the scientifi c, political, social, and economic realities that exist for doctors today? Certainly, medical training without a fee appears to have been confi ned to history. Yet it remains one of the oldest binding documents in history and its principles of commitment, ethics, justice, professionalism, and confi dentiality transcend time. The absence of autonomy as a fundamental tenet of modern medical care can be debated. But just as anatomy and physiology have been added to the doctor’s repertoire since Hippocrates, omissions should not undermine the oath as a para- digm of self-regulation amongst a group of specialists committed to an ideal. And do not forget that illness may represent a temporary loss of autonomy caused by fear, vulnerability, and a subjective weighting of present versus future. It could be argued that Hippocratic paternalism is, in fact, required to restore autonomy. Contemporary versions of the oath often fail to make doctors accountable for keeping to any aspect of the pledge. And beware the oath that is nothing more than historic ritual without accountability, for then it can be superseded by per- sonal, political, social, or economic priorities: ‘In Auschwitz, doctors presided over the murder of most of the one million victims…. [They] did not recall being especially aware in Auschwitz of their Hippocratic oath, and were not surprisingly, uncomfortable discussing it…The oath of loyalty to Hitler…was much more real to them.’ Robert Jay Lifton, The Nazi Doctors. 1 This is unlikely to be a commentary on euthanasia (easeful death) as the oath predates the word. Rather, it is believed to allude to the common practice of using doctors as political assassins. 2 Abortion by oral methods was legal in ancient Greece. The oath cautions only against the use of pessaries as a potential source of lethal infection. 3 The oath does not disavow surgery, merely asks the physician to cede to others with expertise. enicidem tuoba gniknihT 2 Medical care Advice for doctors • Do not blame the sick for being sick.
