Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


disavow surgery, merely asks the physician to cede to others with expertise. enicidem tuoba gniknihT 2 Medical care Advice for doctors • Do not blame the sick for being sick. • Seek to discover your patient’s wishes and comply with them. • Learn. • Work for your patients, not your consultant. • Respect opinions. • Treat a patient, not a disease. • Admit a person, not a diagnosis. • Spend time with the bereaved; help them to shed tears. • Give the patient (and yourself) time: for questions, to refl ect, and to allow healing. • Give patients the benefi t of the doubt. • Be optimistic. • Be kind to yourself: you are not an inexhaustible resource. • Question your conscience. • Tell the truth. • Recognize that the scientifi c approach may be fi nite, but experience and empathy are limitless. Medicine and the stars Decision and intervention are the essence of action, refl ection and conjecture are the essence of thought; the essence of medicine is combining these in the ser- vice of others. We off er our ideals to stimulate thought and action: like the stars, ideals are hard to reach, but they are used for navigation. Orion (fi g 1.2) is our star of choice. His constellation is visible across the globe so he links our readers everywhere, and he will remain recognizable long after other constellations have dis- torted. Fig 1.2 The conste llation of Orion has three superb stars: Bel- latrix (the stetho scope’s bell), Betel g euse (B), and Rigel (R). The three stars at the crosso ver (Orion’s Belt) are Alnitak, Alnilam, and Mint a ka. ©JML and David Malin. The National Health Service ‘The resources of medical skill and the apparatus of healing shall be placed at the disposal of the patient, without charge, when he or she needs them; that medical treatment and care should be a communal responsibility, that they should be made available to rich and poor alike in accordance with medical need and by no other criteria...Society becomes more wholesome, more serene, and spiritually healthier, if it knows that its citizens have at the back of their con- sciousness the knowledge that not only themselves, but all their fellows, have ac- cess, when ill, to the best that medical skill can provide...You can always ‘pass by on the other side’. That may be sound economics. It
