Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


all their fellows, have ac- cess, when ill, to the best that medical skill can provide...You can always ‘pass by on the other side’. That may be sound economics. It could not be worse morals.’ Aneurin Bevan, In Place of Fear, 1952. In 2014, the Commonwealth Fund presented an overview of international healthcare systems examining fi nancing, governance, healthcare quality, effi ciency, evidence- based practice, and innovation. In a scoring system of 11 nations across 11 catego- ries, the NHS came fi rst overall, at less than half the cost per head spent in the USA.1 The King’s Fund debunks the myth that the NHS is unaff ordable in the modern era,2 although funding remains a political choice. Bevan prophesied, ‘The NHS will last as long as there are folk left with the faith to fi ght for it.’ Guard it well. enicidem tuoba gniknihT QALYS and resource rationing 3 ‘There is a good deal of hit and miss about general medicine. It is a profession where exact measurement is not easy and the absence of it opens the mind to endless conjecture as to the effi cacy of this or that form of treatment.’ Aneurin Bevan, In Place of Fear, 1952. A QALY is a quality-adjusted life year. One year of healthy life expectancy = 1 QALY, whereas 1 year of unhealthy life expectancy is worth <1 QALY, the precise value falling with progressively worsening quality of life. If an intervention means that you are likely to live for 8 years in perfect health then that intervention would have a QALY value of 8. If a new drug improves your quality of life from 0.5 to 0.7 for 25 years, then it has a QALY value of (0.7 Ω 0.5)≈25=5. Based on the price of the intervention, the cost of 1 QALY can be calculated. Healthcare priorities can then be weighted towards low cost QALYs. The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) consid- ers that interventions for which 1 QALY=<£30 000 are cost-eff ective. However, as a practical application of utilitarian theory, QALYs remain open to criticism (table 1.1). Remember that although for a clinician, time is unambiguous and quantifi able, time experienced by patients is more like literature than science: a minute might be a chapter, a year a single sentence.3 Table 1.1 The advantages and disadvantages of QALYs Advantages Disadvantages Transparent societal decision Focuses on
