Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


like literature than science: a minute might be a chapter, a year a single sentence.3 Table 1.1 The advantages and disadvantages of QALYs Advantages Disadvantages Transparent societal decision Focuses on slice (disease), not pie (health) making Common unit for diff erent Based on a value judgement that living longer is a interventions measure of success Allows cost-eff ectiveness Quality of life assessment comes from general public, analysis not those with disease Allows international comparison Potentially ageist—the elderly always have less ‘life expectancy’ to gain Focus on outcomes, not process ie care, compassion The inverse care law, equity, and distributive justice: The inverse care law states that the availability of good medical care varies inversely with the need for it. This arises due to poorer quality services, barriers to service ac- cess, and external disadvantage. By focusing on the benefi t gained from an interven- tion, the QALY system treats everyone as equal. But is this really equality? Distributive justice is the distribution of ‘goods’ so that those who are worst off become better off . In healthcare terms, this means allocation of resources to those in greatest need, regardless of QALYs. Compassion The importance of compassion4,5 in medicine is undisputed. It is an emotional re- sponse to negativity or suff ering that motivates a desire to help. It is more than ‘pity’, which has connotations of inferiority; and diff erent from ‘empathy’, which is a vicarious experience of the emotional state of another. It requires imaginative indwelling into another’s condition. The fi ctional Jules Henri experiences a loss of sense of the second person; another person’s despair alters his perception of the world so that they are ‘connected in some universal, though unseen, pattern of humanity’.4 With compassion, the pain of another is ‘intensifi ed by the imagina- tion and prolonged by a hundred echoes’.5 Compassion cannot be taught; it re- quires engagement with suff ering, cultural understanding, and a mutuality, rather than paternalism. Adverse political, excessively mechanical, and managerial envi- ronments discourage its expression. When compassion (what is felt) is diffi cult, etiquette (what is done) must not fail: refl ection, empathy, respectfulness, atten- tion, and manners count: ‘For I could never even have prayed for this: that you would have pity on me and endure my agonies and stay with me and help me’.6 4 Sebastian Faulkes, Human Traces, 2005. 5 Milan Kundera, The Unbearable Lightness of Being,
