Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


would have pity on me and endure my agonies and stay with me and help me’.6 4 Sebastian Faulkes, Human Traces, 2005. 5 Milan Kundera, The Unbearable Lightness of Being, 1984. 6 Philoctetes by Sophocles 409 BC (translation Phillips and Clay, 2003). 4 The diagnostic puzzle How to formulate a diagnosis Diagnosing by recognition: For students, this is the most irritating method. You spend an hour asking all the wrong questions, and in waltzes a doctor who names the disease before you have even fi nished taking the pulse. This doctor has simply recognized the illness like he recognizes an old friend (or enemy). Diagnosing by probability: Over our clinical lives we build up a personal database of diagnoses and associated pitfalls. We unconsciously run each new ‘case’ through this continuously developing probabilistic algorithm with increasing speed and ef- fortlessness. Diagnosing by reasoning: Like Sherlock Holmes, we must exclude each diff erential, and the diagnosis is what remains. This is dependent on the quality of the diff erential and presupposes methods for absolutely excluding diseases. All tests are statistical rather than absolute (5% of the population lie outside the ‘normal’ range), which is why this method remains, like Sherlock Holmes, fi ctional at best. Diagnosing by watching and waiting: The dangers and expense of exhaustive tests may be obviated by the skilful use of time. Diagnosing by selective doubting: Diagnosis relies on clinical signs and investiga- tive tests. Yet there are no hard signs or perfect tests. When diagnosis is diffi cult, try doubting the signs, then doubting the tests. But the game of medicine is unplayable if you doubt everything: so doubt selectively. Diagnosis by iteration and reiteration: A brief history suggests looking for a few signs, which leads to further questions and a few tests. As the process reiterates, various diagnostic possibilities crop up, leading to further questions and further tests. And so history taking and diagnosing never end. A razor, a dictum, and a bludgeon Consider three wise men:6 Occam’s razor: Entia non sunt multiplicanda praeter necessitatem translates as ‘entities must not be multiplied unnecessarily’. The physician should therefore seek to achieve diagnostic parsimony and fi nd a single disease to explain all symptoms, rather than proff er two or three unrelated diagnoses. Hickam’s dictum: Patients can have as many diagnoses as they damn well please. Signs and symptoms may be due to more than one pathology.
