Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


er two or three unrelated diagnoses. Hickam’s dictum: Patients can have as many diagnoses as they damn well please. Signs and symptoms may be due to more than one pathology. Indeed, a patient is statistically more likely to have two common diagnoses than one unify- ing rare condition. Crabtree’s bludgeon: No set of mutually inconsistent observations can exist for which some human intellect cannot conceive a coherent explanation however complicated. This acts as a reminder that physicians prefer Occam to Hickam: a unifying diagnosis is a much more pleasing thing. Confi rmation bias then ensues as we look for supporting information to fi t with our unifying theory. Remember to test the validity of your diagnosis, no matter how pleasing it may seem. Heuristic pitfalls Heuristics are the cognitive shortcuts which allow quick decision-making by focus- ing on relevant predictors. Be aware of them so you can be vigilant of their traps.7 Representativeness: Diagnosis is driven by the ‘classic case’. Do not forget the atypical variant. Availability: The diseases that we remember, or treated most recently, carry more weight in our diagnostic hierarchy. Question whether this more readily available information is truly relevant. Overconfi dence: Are you overestimating how much you know and how well you know it? Probably. Bias: The hunt for, and recall of, clinical information that fi ts with our expectations. Can you disprove your own diagnostic hypothesis? Illusory correlation: Associated events are presumed to be causal. But was it treat- ment or time that cured the patient? Being wrong 5 It is always possible to be wrong8 because you remain unaware of it while it is happening. Such error-blindness is why ‘I am wrong’ is a statement of impos- sibility. Once you are aware that you are wrong, you are no longer wrong, and can therefore only declare ‘I was wrong’. It is also the reason that fallibility must be accepted as a universally human phenomenon. Conversely, certainty is the convic- tion that we cannot be wrong because our biases and beliefs must be grounded in fact. Certainty produces the comforting illusion that the world (and medicine) is knowable. But be cautious of certainty for it involves a shift in perspective inwards, towards our own convictions. This means that other people’s stories can cease to matter to us. Certainty becomes lethal to empathy. In order to determine how and why mistakes are made, error must be
