Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


This means that other people’s stories can cease to matter to us. Certainty becomes lethal to empathy. In order to determine how and why mistakes are made, error must be acknowl- edged and accepted. Defensiveness is bad for progress. ‘I was wrong, but...’ is rarely an open and honest analysis of error that will facilitate diff erent and better action in the future. It is only with close scrutiny of mistakes that you can see the possibility of change at the core of error. And yet, medical practice is littered with examples of resistance to disclosure, and reward for the concealment of error. This must change.4 Remember error blindness and protect your whistle-blowers. Listen. It is an act of humility that acknowledges the position of others, and the possibility of error in yourself. Knowledge persists only until it can be disproved. Better to aspire to the aporia of Socrates: ‘At fi rst, he didn’t know...just as he doesn’t yet know the answer now either; but he still thought he knew the answer then, and he was answering con- fi dently, as if he had knowledge. He didn’t think he was stuck before, but now he appreciates that he is stuck...At any rate, it would seem that we’ve increased his chances of fi nding out the truth of the matter, because now, given his lack of knowledge, he’ll be glad to undertake the investigation...Do you think he’d have tried to enquire or learn about this matter when he thought he knew it (even though he didn’t), until he’d become bogged down and stuck, and had come to appreciate his ignorance and to long for knowledge?’ Plato: Meno and other dialogues, 402 BC; Waterfi eld translation, 2005. Medicine, error, and the humanities Error provides a link between medicine and the humanities. Both strive to bridge the gap between ourselves and the world. Medicine attempts to do this in an ob- jective manner, using disproved hypotheses (error) to progress towards a ‘truth’. Art, however, accepts the unknown, and celebrates transience and subjectivity. By seeing the world through someone else’s eyes, art teaches us empathy. It is at the point where art and medicine collide that doctors can re-attach themselves to the human race and feel those emotions that motivate or terrify our patients. ‘Unknowing’ drives medical theory, but also stories and pictures. And these are the hallmark of our highest endeavours. ‘We all
