Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


and feel those emotions that motivate or terrify our patients. ‘Unknowing’ drives medical theory, but also stories and pictures. And these are the hallmark of our highest endeavours. ‘We all know that Art is not truth. Art is a lie that makes us realise the truth, at least the truth that is given to us to understand.’ Pablo Picasso in Picasso Speaks, 1923. Duty of candour In a world in which a ‘mistake’ can be redefi ned as a ‘complication’, it is easy to conceal error behind a veil of technical language. In 2014, a professional duty of candour became statutory in England for incidents that cause death, severe or moderate harm, or prolonged psychological harm. As soon as practicable, the pa- tient must be told in person what happened, given details of further enquiries, and off ered an apology. But this should not lead to the proff ering of a ‘tick-box’ apology of questionable value. Be reassured that an apology is not an admission of liability. Risks and imperfections are inherent to medicine and you have the freedom to be sorry whenever they occur. Focus not on legislation, but on transparency and learning. The ethics of forgiveness require a complete response in which the pa- tient’s voice is placed at the heart of the process. 6 Bedside manner and communication skills A good bedside manner is dynamic. It develops in the light of a patient's needs and is grounded in honesty, humour, and humility, in the presence of human weakness. But it is fragile: `It is unsettling to fi nd how little it takes to defeat success in medicine... You do not imagine that a mere matter of etiquette could foil you. But the social dimension turns out to be as essential as the scientifi c... How each interaction is negotiated can determine whether a doctor is trusted, whether a patient is heard, whether the right diagnosis is made, the right treatment given. But in this realm there are no perfect formulas.' (Atul Gawande, Better: A Surgeon's Notes on Performance, 2008) A patient may not care how much you know, until they know how much you care. Without care and trust, there can be little healing. Pre-set formulas off er, at best, a guide: Introduce yourself every time you see a patient, giving your name and your role. ‘Introductions are about making a human connection between one human being
