Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


er, at best, a guide: Introduce yourself every time you see a patient, giving your name and your role. ‘Introductions are about making a human connection between one human being who is suffering and vulnerable, and another human being who wishes to help. They begin therapeutic relationships and can instantly build trust’ Kate Granger, hellomynameis.org.uk, #hellomynameis Be friendly. Smile. Sit down. Take an interest in the patient and ask an unscripted question. Use the patient’s name more than once. Listen. Do not be the average physician who interrupts after 20–30 seconds. ‘Look wise, say nothing, and grunt. Speech was given to conceal thought.’ William Osler (1849–1919). Increase the wait-time between listening and speaking. The patient may say more. Pay attention to the non-verbal. Observe gestures, body language, and eye contact. Be aware of your own. Explain. Consider written or drawn explanations. When appropriate, include rela- tives in discussions to assist in understanding and recall. Adapt your language. An explanation in fl uent medicalese may mean nothing to your patient. Clarify understanding. ‘Acute’, ‘chronic’, ‘dizzy’, ‘jaundice’, ‘shock’, ‘malignant’, ‘re- mission’: do these words have the same meaning for both you and your patient? Be polite. It requires no talent. ‘Politeness is prudence and consequently rudeness is folly. To make enemies by being...unnecessarily rude is as crazy as setting one’s house on fi re.’ Arthur Schopenhauer (1788–1860). Address silent fears. Give patients a chance to raise their concerns: ‘What are you worried this might be?’, ‘Some people worry about...., does that worry you?’ Consider the patient’s disease model. Patients may have their own explanations for their symptoms. Acknowledge their theories and, if appropriate, make an eff ort to explain why you think them unlikely. ‘A physician is obligated to consider more than a diseased organ, more even than the whole man - he must view the man in his world.’ Harvey Cushing (1869–1939). Keep the patient informed. Explain your working diagnosis and relate this to their understanding, beliefs, and concerns. Let them know what will happen next, and the likely timing. ‘Soon’ may mean a month to a doctor, but a day to a patient. Apologize for any delay. Summarize. Is there anything you have missed? Communication, partnership, and health promotion are improved when doctors are trained to KEPe Warm:10 • Knowing—the patient’s history, social talk. • Encouraging—back-channelling (hmmm, aahh). • Physically engaging—hand gestures, appropriate contact, lean in to the patient. •
