Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


improved when doctors are trained to KEPe Warm:10 • Knowing—the patient’s history, social talk. • Encouraging—back-channelling (hmmm, aahh). • Physically engaging—hand gestures, appropriate contact, lean in to the patient. • Warm up—cooler, professional but supportive at the start of the consultation, making sure to avoid dominance, patronizing, and non-verbal cut-off s (ie turning away from the patient) at the end. Asking questions 7 Open questions ‘How are you?’, ‘How does it feel?’ The direction a patient chooses off ers valuable information. ‘Tell me about the vomit.’ ‘It was dark.’ ‘How dark?’ ‘Dark bits in it.’ ‘Like…?’ ‘Like bits of soil in it.’ This information is gold, although it is not cast in the form of coff ee grounds. Patient-centred questions Patients may have their own ideas about what is causing their symptoms, how they impact, and what should be done. This is ever truer as patients frequently consult Dr Google before their GP. Unless their ideas, concerns, and expectations are elucidated, your patient may never be fully satisfi ed with you, or able to be fully involved in their own care. Considering the whole Humans are not self-suffi cient units; we are complex relational beings, constantly reacting to events, environments, and each other. To understand your patient’s concerns you must understand their context: home-life, work, dreams, fears. Information from family and friends can be very helpful for identifying triggering and exacerbating factors, and elucidating the true underlying cause. A headache caused by anxiety is best treated not with analgesics, but by helping the patient access support. Silence and echoes Often the most valuable details are the most diffi cult to verbalize. Help your patients express such thoughts by giving them time: if you interrogate a robin, he will fl y away; treelike silence may bring him to your hand. ‘Trade Secret: the best diagnosticians in medicine are not internists, but pa- tients. If only the doctor would sit down, shut up, and listen, the patient will eventually tell him the diagnosis.’ Oscar London, Kill as Few Patients as Possible, 1987. Whilst powerful, silence should not be oppressive—try echoing the last words said to encourage your patient to continue vocalizing a particular thought. Try to avoid Closed questions: These permit no opportunity to deny assumptions. ‘Have you had hip pain since your fall?’ ‘Yes, doctor.’ Investigations are requested even though the same hip pain was also present for many years before
