Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


opportunity to deny assumptions. ‘Have you had hip pain since your fall?’ ‘Yes, doctor.’ Investigations are requested even though the same hip pain was also present for many years before the fall! Questions suggesting the answer: ‘Was the vomit black—like coff ee grounds?’ ‘Yes, like coff ee grounds, doctor.’ The doctor’s expectations and hurry to get the evidence into a pre-decided format have so tarnished the story as to make it useless. Shared decision-making: no decision about me, without me Shared decision-making aims to place patients’ needs, wishes, and preferences at the centre of clinical decision-making. • Support patients to articulate their understanding of their condition. • Inform patients about their condition, treatment options, benefi ts, and risk. • Make decisions based on mutual understanding. Consider asking not, ‘What is the matter?’ but, ‘What matters to you?’. Consider also your tendency towards libertarian paternalism or ‘nudge’. This is when information is given in such a way as to encourage individuals to make a particular choice that is felt to be in their best interests, and to correct apparent ‘reasoning failure’ in the patient. This is done by framing the information in either a positive or negative light depending on your view and how you might wish to sway your audi- ence. Consider the following statements made about a new drug which off ers 96% survival compared to 94% with an older drug: • More people survive if they take this drug. • This new drug reduces mortality by a third. • This new drug benefi ts only 2% of patients. • There may be unknown side-eff ects to the new drug. How do you choose? 8 Prescribing drugs Consult the BNF or BNF for Children or similar before giving any drug with which you are not thoroughly familiar. Check the patient’s allergy status and make all reasonable attempts to qualify the reaction (table 1.2). The burden of iatrogenic hospital admission and avoidable drug- related deaths is real. Equally, do not deny life-saving treatment based on a mild and predictable reaction. Check drug interactions meticulously. Table 1.2 Drug reactions Type of reaction Examples True allergy Anaphylaxis: oedema, urticaria, wheeze (p794–5) Side-eff ect All medications have side-eff ects. The most common are rash, itch, nausea, diarrhoea, lethargy, and headache Increased eff ect/ Due to inter-individual variance. Dosage regimen normally cor- toxicity rects for this but beware states of altered drug clearance such
