Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


rash, itch, nausea, diarrhoea, lethargy, and headache Increased eff ect/ Due to inter-individual variance. Dosage regimen normally cor- toxicity rects for this but beware states of altered drug clearance such as liver and renal (p305) impairment Drug interaction Reaction due to drugs used in combination, eg azathioprine and allopurinol, erythromycin and warfarin Remember primum non nocere: fi rst do no harm. The more minor the illness, the more weight this carries. Overall, doctors have a tendency to prescribe too much rather than too little. Consider the following when prescribing any medication: 1 The underlying pathology. Do not let the amelioration of symptoms lead to failure of investigation and diagnosis. 2 Is this prescription according tob est evidence? 3 Drug reactions. All medications come with risks, potential side-eff ects, incon- venience to the patient, and expense. 4 Is the patient takingo ther medications? 5 Alternatives to medication. Does the patient really need or want medication? Are you giving medication out of a sense of needing to do something, or because you genuinely feel it will help the patient? Is it more appropriate to off er infor- mation, reassurance, or lifestyle modifi cation? 6 Is there a risk ofo verdose or addiction? 7 Can you assist the patient? Once per day is better than four times. How easy is it to open the bottle? Is there an intervention that can help with medicine manage- ment, eg a multi-compartment compliance aid, patient counselling, an IT solution such as a smartphone app? 8 Future planning. How are you going to decide whether the medication has worked? What are the indications to continue, stop, or change the prescribed regimen? In appreciation of pain Pain is often seen as an unequivocally bad thing, and certainly many patients dream of a life without pain. However, without pain we are vulnerable to ourselves and our behaviours, and risk ignorance of underlying conditions. While most children quickly learn not to touch boiling water as their own body disciplines their behaviour with the punishment of pain; children born with con- genital insensitivity to pain (CIPA) can burn themselves, break bones, and tear skin without feeling any immediate ill eff ect. Their health is constantly at risk from unconsciously self-mutilating behaviours and unnoticed trauma. CIPA is very rare but examples of the human tendency for self-damage without the protective fac- tor of pain are common. Have you ever bitten your tongue
