Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


and unnoticed trauma. CIPA is very rare but examples of the human tendency for self-damage without the protective fac- tor of pain are common. Have you ever bitten your tongue or cheek after a dental anaesthetic? Patients with diabetic neuropathy risk osteomyelitis and arthropa- thy in their pain-free feet. If you receive a message of bad news, you do not solve the problem by hiding the message. Listen to the pain as well as making the patient comfortable. Compliance and concordance 9 Compliance embodies the imbalance of power between doctor and patient: the doctor knows best and the patient’s only responsibility is to comply with that monopoly of medical knowledge. Devaluing of patients and ethically dubious, the term ‘compliance’ has been relegated from modern prescribing practice. Con- cordance is now king: a prescribing agreement that incorporates the beliefs and wishes of the patient. Only 50–70% of patients take medicines as prescribed to them. This leads to concern over wasted resources and avoidable illness. Interventions that increase concordance are promoted using the mnemonic: Educating Patients Enhances Care Received • Explanation: discuss the benefi ts and risks of taking and not-taking medication. Some patients will prefer not to be treated and, if the patient has capacity and understands the risks, such a decision should be respected. • Problems: talk through the patient’s experience of their treatment—have they suff ered side-eff ects which have prompted non-concordance? • Expectations: discuss what they should expect from their treatment. This is im- portant especially in the treatment of silent conditions where there is no symp- tomatic benefi t, eg antihypertensive treatment. • Capability: talk through the medication regimen with them and consider ways to reduce its complexity. • Reinforcement: reproduce your discussion in written form for the patient to take home. Check how they are managing their medications when you next see them. But remember that there is little evidence that increasing information improves concordance. And if concordance is increased solely by the ‘education’ of the pa- tient then it starts to look a lot like compliance.11 A truly shared agreement will not always ‘comply’ or ‘concord’ with the prescriber. The capacity of the informed individual to consent or not, means that in some cases, concordance looks more like informed divergence. The placebo eff ect The placebo eff ect is a well-recognized phenomenon whereby patients improve af- ter undergoing therapy that is believed by clinicians to
