Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


looks more like informed divergence. The placebo eff ect The placebo eff ect is a well-recognized phenomenon whereby patients improve af- ter undergoing therapy that is believed by clinicians to have no direct eff ect on the pathophysiology of their disease. The nature of the therapy (pills, rituals, massages) matters less than whether the patient believes the therapy will help. Examples of the placebo eff ect in modern medicine include participants in the pla- cebo arm of a clinical trial who see dramatic improvements in their refractory illness, and patients in severe pain who assume the saline fl ush prior to their IV morphine is opioid and reporting relief of pain before the morphine has been administered. It is likely that much of the symptomatic relief experienced from ‘active’ medicines in fact results from a placebo eff ect. The complementary therapy industry has many ingenious ways of utilizing the placebo eff ect. These can give great benefi ts to patients, often with minimal risk; but there remains the potential for signifi cant harm, both fi nancially and by dissuading patients from seeking necessary medical help. Why evolution has given us bodies with a degree of self-healing ability in response to a belief that healing will happen, and not in response to a desire for healing, is unclear. Perhaps the belief that a solution is underway ‘snoozes’ the internal alarm systems that are designed to tell us there is a problem, and so improve the symptoms that result from the body’s perception of harm. Many patients who receive therapies are unaware of their intended eff ects, thus missing out on the narrative that may give them an expectation of improvement. Try to fi nd time to discuss with your patients the story of how you hope treatment will address their problems. 10 Surviving life on the wards The ward round • All entries on the patient record must have: date, time, the name of the clinician leading the interaction, the clinical fi ndings and plan, your signature, printed name, and contact details. Make sure the patient details are at the top of every side of paper. Write legibly—this may save more than the patient. • A problem list will help you structure your thoughts and guide others. • BODEX: Blood results, Observations, Drug chart, ECG, X-rays. Look at these. If you think there is something of concern, make sure someone else
