Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


structure your thoughts and guide others. • BODEX: Blood results, Observations, Drug chart, ECG, X-rays. Look at these. If you think there is something of concern, make sure someone else looks at them too. • Document what information has been given to the patient and relatives. Handover • Make sure you know when and where to attend. • Make sure you understand what you need to do and why. ‘Check blood results’ or ‘Review warning score’ is not enough. Better to: ‘Check potassium in 4 hours and discuss with a senior if it remains >6.0mmol/L’ . On call • Write it down. • The ABCDE approach (p779) to a sick patient is never wrong. • Try and establish the clinical context of tasks you are asked to do. Prioritize and let staff know when you are likely to get to them. • Learn the national early warning score (NEWS) (p892, fi g A1). • Smile, even when talking by phone. Be polite. • Eat and drink, preferably with your team. Making a referral • Have the clinical notes, observation chart, drug chart, and investigation results to hand. Read them before you call. • Use SBAR: Situtation (who you are, who the patient is, the reason for the call), Background, Assessment of the patient now, Request. • Anticipate: urine dip for the nephrologist, PR exam for the gastroenterologist. Living with blood spattered armour With the going down of the sun we can momentarily cheer ourselves up by the thought that we are one day nearer to the end of life on earth—and our respon- sibility for the unending tide of illness that fl oods into our corridors, and seeps into our wards and consulting rooms. Of course you may have many other quiet satisfactions, but if not, read on and wink with us as we hear some fool telling us that our aim should be to produce the greatest health and happiness for the great- est number. When we hear this, we don’t expect cheering from the tattered ranks of on-call doctors; rather, our ears detect a decimated groan, because these men and women know that there is something at stake in on-call doctoring far more elemental than health or happiness: namely survival. Within the fi rst weeks, however brightly your armour shone, it will now be smeared and spattered, if not with blood, then with the fallout from the many
