Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


namely survival. Within the fi rst weeks, however brightly your armour shone, it will now be smeared and spattered, if not with blood, then with the fallout from the many decisions that were taken without suffi cient care and attention. Force majeure on the part of Nature and the exigencies of ward life have, we are suddenly stunned to realize, taught us to be second-rate; for to insist on being fi rst-rate in all areas is to sign a death warrant for ourselves and our patients. Don’t keep re-polishing your armour, for perfectionism does not survive untarnished in our clinical world. Rather, to fl ourish, furnish your mind and nourish your body. Regular food makes midnight groans less intrusive. Drink plenty: doctors are more likely to be oliguric than their patients. And do not voluntarily deny yourself the restorative power of sleep, for it is our natural state, in which we were fi rst created, and we only wake to feed our dreams. We cannot prepare you for fi nding out that you are not at ease with the person you are becoming, and neither would we dream of imposing a specifi c regimen of exercise, diet, and mental fi tness. Finding out what can lead you through adversity is the art of living. On being busy: Corrigan’s secret door 11 Dr Corrigan of Dublin was: ‘tall, erect, of commanding fi gure...He had the countenance of an intellectual... and his face “beamed with kindness”...In temperament his distinguishing traits were kindness and tenderness towards the sick, and the ability to make a bold decision.’ E. O’Brien, Conscience and Confl ict: A Biography of Sir Dominic Corrigan 1802–1880, 1983 Was he busy? At the start of his professional life he was advised that the best way to get business was to pretend to have it. It was suggested that a note marked ‘Im- mediate and pressing’ should be ostentatiously handed to him at the dinner table, but always at a suitable time so as not to miss the best food. Such advice was not taken. Corrigan aspired to hard work and taught his students the value of ‘never doing nothing’. The city in which he practised had a ‘degree of fi lth, stench and dark- ness, inconceivable by those who have not experienced them’, and ‘not enough hos- pital beds to care for the great numbers in need.’ And so the story
