Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


stench and dark- ness, inconceivable by those who have not experienced them’, and ‘not enough hos- pital beds to care for the great numbers in need.’ And so the story of a secret door, made in his consulting room, to escape the ever growing queue of eager patients. In times of chaos, fi lled with competing, urgent, simultaneous demands, excessive paperwork, too few beds, eff ort–reward imbalance, personal sacrifi ce, and despair; we all need Corrigan to take us by the shadow of our hand, and walk with us through a secret door into a calm inner world. Our metaphorical door has fi ve parts: 1 Howeverl onely you feel, you are not usually alone. Do not pride yourself on not asking for help. If a decision is a hard one, share it with a colleague. 2 Take any chance you get to sit down and rest. Have a cup of tea with other members of staff , or with a friendly patient (patients are sources of renewal, not just devourers of your energies). 3 Do not miss meals. If there is no time to go to the canteen, ensure that food is put aside for you to eat when you can: hard work and sleeplessness are twice as bad when you are hungry. 4 Avoid making work for yourself. It is too easy for doctors, trapped in their image of excessive work, and blackmailed by misplaced guilt, to remain on the wards re-clerking patients, re-writing notes, or re-checking results at an hour when the priority should be caring for themselves. 5 Look to the future. Plan for a good time after a bad rota. The origins of the story of Corrigan’s secret door are unknown. It may never have existed other than in these hallowed pages. But when the legend becomes fact, print the legend.7 Resilience and coping ‘Burnout’ is common in clinical medicine. It is a syndrome of lost enthusiasm, re- duced empathy, increased cynicism, and a decrease in the meaningfulness of work. Coping styles and resilience can protect doctors and better equip them to meet, and learn from, the challenges of clinical practice:12 • Self-directedness correlates strongly with resilience. A personal sense of responsi- bility allows learning from mistakes and moving on. • Cooperativeness is the ability to work with opinions and behaviours diff erent to your own, preventing them becoming a source of stress. • Clinicians
