Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


from mistakes and moving on. • Cooperativeness is the ability to work with opinions and behaviours diff erent to your own, preventing them becoming a source of stress. • Clinicians who are low in harm avoidance are better able to accept uncertainty and a degree of risk. This facilitates decision-making as it is unclouded by anxiety and pessimism about potential problems. Supervised experience outside your comfort zone may help you deal better with uncertainty. • Be persistent but set realistic goals. Perfectionism can be detrimental. • Task-orientated coping occurs when a situation is seen as changeable. This is as- sociated with less burnout than emotion-orientated coping when situations are considered unchangeable: don’t just do something, stand there. • Be self-aware. Development or modifi cation of your personality traits may reduce your vulnerability. 7 The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance, 1962: Ransom Stoddard (Jimmy Stewart) becomes a legend after killing Liberty Valance in a duel. It does not matter that the real shooter was Tom Doniphon (John Wayne) all along. 12 Death The wisdom of death Death is nature’s cruel master stroke, allowing genotypes space to try new pheno- types. The time comes in the life of every organism when it is better to start from scratch, rather than carry on with the weight and muddle of endless accretions. Our bodies and minds are the perishable phenotypes on the wave of our genes. But our genes are not really our genes. It is we who belong to them for a few decades. And death is nature’s great insult, that she should prefer to put all her eggs in the basket of a defenceless, incompetent neonate; rather than in the tried and tested custody of our own superb minds. But as our neurofi brils begin to tangle, and that neonate walks to a wisdom that eludes us, we are forced to give nature credit for her daring idea. Of course, nature, in her careless way, can get it wrong: people often die in the wrong order and one of our chief roles is to prevent this misorder- ing of deaths, not the phenomenon of death itself. With that exception, we must admit that dying is a brilliant idea, and one that it is most unlikely we would ever have devised ourselves. Diagnosing dying Would you be surprised if your patient were to die in the next few days, weeks, or months? If
