Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


is most unlikely we would ever have devised ourselves. Diagnosing dying Would you be surprised if your patient were to die in the next few days, weeks, or months? If the answer is ‘no’ then end-of-life choices, decisions, and care should be addressed. Consider: decline in functional performance, eg in bed or chair >50% of day, in- creasing dependence, weight of co-morbidity, unstable or deteriorating symptom burden, decreased treatment response, weight loss >10% in 6 months, crisis admis- sions, serum albumin <25g/L, sentinel event, eg fall, transfer to nursing home. Diagnosing death Death13 is the irreversible loss of the essential characteristics which are necessary for the existence of a human being. Death following cessation of cardiorespiratory function: Simultaneous and irreversible onset of apnoea, absence of circulation, and un- consciousness. Cardiorespiratory arrest is confi rmed by observation of the following: • Absence of central pulse on palpation. • Absence of heart sounds on auscultation. • After 5 minutes of cardiorespiratory arrest absence of brainstem activity is con- fi rmed by the absence of pupillary responses to light, an absent corneal refl ex, and no motor response to supra-orbital pressure. The time of death is the time at which these criteria are fulfi lled. Brainstem death: Brainstem pathology causing irreversible damage to its integrative functions including neural control of cardiorespiratory function and consciousness. Diagnosed by an absence of brainstem refl exes: • No pupil light response. • No corneal refl ex (blink to touch). • Absent oculovestibular refl exes (no eye movements seen with injection of ice- cold water into each external auditory meatus, tympanic membranes visualized). • No motor response to stimulation within the cranial nerve distribution (supra- orbital pressure). • No cough/gag refl ex. • No respiratory response to hypercarbia: oxgenation is maintained (SpO>85%) 2 but ventilation is reduced to achieve P aCO 2 ≥6.0kPa with pH ≤7.40. No respiratory response is seen within 5 minutes and P aCO 2 rises by >0.5kPa. Diagnosis is made by two competent doctors registered for >5 years testing to- gether completely and successfully on two separate occasions. Managing death 13 Death may be regarded as a medical failure rather than an inevitable consequence of life. But when medical treatments can no longer off er a cure, and a patient enters the end of life, active management of death is vital. Remember that the focus of medicine is narrow and concerned more with the
