Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


er a cure, and a patient enters the end of life, active management of death is vital. Remember that the focus of medicine is narrow and concerned more with the repair of health, rather than the sustenance of the soul. This medical imperative may fail in its duty to make life-in- death better. Priorities at the end of life include freedom from pain, achieving a sense of completeness, being treated as a whole person, and fi nding peace with God.14 Swift death due to a catastrophic event is rare. Most death is the end product of a struggle with long-term, progressive disease: cancer, COPD, vascular disease, neu- rological deterioration, frailty, or dementia. Although death is inevitable, prognos- tication is diffi cult and inaccurate with remarkable variation in time to death. The patient in front of you may be the median, mean, or on the 99th centile. Dare to hope, but prepare for the worst. Prioritize preferences and aim to meet individual needs.15 • Seek help from experienced members of staff including palliative care teams. • Elicit needs: physiological, psychological, social, and spiritual. Discuss fears. • Establish the wishes of the patient. What trade-off s are they willing to accept, eg treatment toxicity for potential time gained? What is unacceptable to them? • Consider the views of those important to the patient. • Hydration: give support to allow the dying to drink, off er mouth care. Consider clinically assisted hydration (parenteral, enteral, intravenous) according to wish- es and if distressing signs/symptoms of dehydration are possible. Stop according to wishes and harm. • Manage pain promptly and eff ectively. Treat any reversible causes of pain. • Consider a syringe pump if symptom control medications are required more than twice in 24 hours (see p536). • Anticipate likely symptoms: the PRN side of the drug chart should cover all pos- sibilities (see p536). Death may or may not come with peace and acceptance. Patients may rage might- ily against the dying of the light. Bear witness for them: listen and hold their hand. Organ donation Over 6000 people are waiting for an organ transplant in the UK and approximately 1000 people in need of a transplant will die each year (see p308). Any patient who is a potential donor can be referred to a specialist organ donation service. That service will provide advice as to suitability for transplantation and will coordinate the approach
