Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


patient who is a potential donor can be referred to a specialist organ donation service. That service will provide advice as to suitability for transplantation and will coordinate the approach to families. They are contactable 24 hours a day and their details will be held in your A&E and/or ITU departments. Organs can be retrieved from: • donor after brainstem death or heart-beating donor. • donor after cardiac death or non-heart-beating donor. Includes death following unsuccessful CPR and patients for whom death is inevitable but do not meet the criteria for brainstem death. There are two legislative frameworks for organ donation: • Opt-in. Donors give their explicit consent • Opt-out. Anyone who has not actively refused consent is a donor. The association between an opt-out system and higher organ donation rates is complicated by the presence of multiple cofounding factors. Non-legislative change including national coordination, support and training of clinicians, routine discussion as part of end-of-life care, and effi cient organ retrieval also increase donation rates. The ethics of presumed consent should also be considered: the absence of an objec- tion would not be an acceptable substitute for informed consent in other areas of clinical practice. In the UK, although consent for transplantation rests with the deceased, if the patient’s family or representative cannot support donation then it will not go ahead. Register your decision on the NHS Organ Donor Register ( nhs.uk/register-to-donate/register-your-details/) and more importantly, let your family know your wishes. 14 Medical ethics ‘Our clinical practice is steered by ethical principles. They guide the decisions we make in our clinics and ward rounds, what we tell our patients, and what we omit to tell them.’ Tony Lopez, Journal of Royal Society of Medicine 2001;94:603–4. In the silences of our consultations it is we who are under the microscope, and we cannot escape our destiny in the sphere of ethics. To give us courage in this enterprise, we can recall the law of the aviator and seagull: it is only by facing the prevailing wind that we can become airborne, and achieve a new vantage point from which to survey our world. We hope for moral perception: to be able to visualize the morally salient features of a situation. For without this, ethical issues may fl oat past never to be resolved. Be alert to words which may carry hidden assumptions: ‘futil- ity’, ‘consent’, ‘best interests’.16 Consider WIGWAM in
