Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


For without this, ethical issues may fl oat past never to be resolved. Be alert to words which may carry hidden assumptions: ‘futil- ity’, ‘consent’, ‘best interests’.16 Consider WIGWAM in your routine patient review: • Wishes of the patient: are they known or unknown? • Issues of confi dentiality/disclosure. • Goals of care: are they clear? Whose are they: yours or the patient’s? • Wants: to decline treatment or discharge against advice. • Arguments between family/friends/doctors. • Money: concerns of the patient, concerns of the healthcare provider. Ethical frameworks Off er structure, comprehensiveness, and transparency in deliberation.16,17 Four principles Autonomy: Self governance: the ability of a patient to make a choice based on their own values and beliefs. Benefi cence: The obligation to benefi t patients. Links with autonomy as benefi t is dependent upon the view of the patient. Non-malefi cence: Do not harm. Or more appropriately, do no overall harm: you should stick a needle into someone when they need dialysis. Justice: A collection of obligations including legality, human rights, fairness, and resource distribution. Four quadrants method Medical indications: Identify the clinical problem, treatment options, goals of treat- ment, and likelihood of success. Patient preferences: What is the patient’s autono- mous decision? (And is the patient capable of making one? If not, look for previously expressed wishes from advanced directives, family, friends, GP.) Quality of life: How will the proposed treatment aff ect quality of life? This is subjective: recognize your own biases and accommodate those of the patient. Contextual factors: The wider context: legal, cultural, religious, familial, and anything else that may impact. These frameworks describe individual voices within the ethics choir. Sometimes there is a beautiful harmony, but how should you act when there is discordance? There is no hierarchy within the frameworks. Each component is binding unless it is trumped by a stronger principle. How you weigh up and balance the ethical com- ponents of a situation is not easy, but it should be clear and justifi ed. Know the patient. Consult others, especially those who hold diff erent opinions to yourself. Can you adequately defend your decision to the patient? Their family? Your consultant? Another consultant? A lawyer? If an investigative journalist were to sit on a sulcus of yours, having full knowledge of all thoughts and actions, would he be composing vitriol for tomorrow’s newspapers? If so, can you answer him, point for
