Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


sit on a sulcus of yours, having full knowledge of all thoughts and actions, would he be composing vitriol for tomorrow’s newspapers? If so, can you answer him, point for point? Beyond the ethical framework To force an ethical problem to fi t a framework may be inadequate, reduction- istic, and inconsistent.18 It is potentially biased towards Western culture, dis- counts the non-autonomous, and is vulnerable to poorly considered emphasis and error. ‘Doing’ ethics can become a check-list exercise where thinking is lost. But doctors are not moral philosophers. They are clinicians. A framework there- fore provides a starting point from which to work. It is the toe which tests the water of moral deliberation. Be aware of the cultural setting of your dilemma and consider carefully the weight of synthesis. Be prepared to wade deeper if needed. But acknowledge that moral wisdom may well be out of your depth. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 1144 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem tuoba gniknihT Psychiatry on medical and surgical wards 15 ‘Body and soul cannot be separated for purposes of treatment, for they are one and indivisible. Sick minds must be healed as well as sick bodies.’ C Jeff Miller, 1931. Mental state examination: ASEPTIC • Appearance and behaviour: dress, hygiene, eye contact, rapport. • Speech: volume, rate, tone. • Emotion: mood (subjective and objective), aff ect (how mood is expressed with behaviour—appropriate or incongruent?). • Perception: hallucinations—auditory (in the second or third person)?, visual? • Thought: • Form: block, insertion, broadcast, fl ight of ideas, knight’s move. • Content: delusions, obsessions, phobias, preoccupations, self-harm, suicide. • Insight: ask the patient why they have presented today. • Cognition: orientation, registration, recall, concentration, knowledge. Do not be afraid to ask about suicidal thoughts and plans. Remove yourself from the situation if you feel threatened. Depression Two questions can be used to identify depression:19 1 During the last month, have you been bothered by feeling down, depressed, or hopeless? 2 During the last month, have you often been bothered by having little interest or pleasure in doing things? If a person answers ‘yes’ to either question they should undergo mental health as- sessment including a risk assessment of self-harm and suicide. Appropriate treat- ments include psychosocial intervention (guided self-help, cognitive behavioural therapy, structured physical activity) and medication. Treatment choice depends on disease severity, previous psychiatric history, response to treatment, and patient preference. If medication is indicated, a generic SSRI
