Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


cognitive behavioural therapy, structured physical activity) and medication. Treatment choice depends on disease severity, previous psychiatric history, response to treatment, and patient preference. If medication is indicated, a generic SSRI should be considered fi rst line after consideration of GI bleeding risk, drug interactions, toxicity, overdose, and dis- continuation symptoms. The full eff ect of medication is gradual, over 4–6 weeks. Capacity The Mental Capacity Act (MCA) 2005 has a two-stage test for lack of capacity: 1 There is an impairment or disturbed functioning of the mind. 2 The patient is unable to make a decision. Decision-making is impaired if the patient is unable to: understand the relevant information, retain it for long enough to make a decision, weigh up the informa- tion, communicate their decision. Capacity is decision-specifi c not patient-specifi c. When treatment is proposed to those who lack capacity, a capacity advocate should be provided. Even patients without capacity should be as involved as possible in decision-making. Mental Health Act (MHA) and common law A patient can be detained under common law (subject to a test of reasonableness) or under the MHA, only if they lack capacity to remain informally and are a danger to themselves or others. You will have more experience in verbal and non-verbal communication, than in detention under the MHA, so use these skills fi rst to try and de-escalate the situation. If rapid tranquillization is needed, be familiar with dosage, side-eff ects, and the need for ongoing observation. If there is no history to guide choice of medication, intramuscular lorazepam can be used.20 Doctors and mental health Suicide rates are three times higher in doctors compared to the general population. Up to 7% of doctors will have a substance abuse problem within their lifetime. Do not ignore feeling low, poor concentration, and reduced energy levels. Do not self- diagnose and manage. Avoid ‘corridor consultations’. Trust your GP. Seek support: • British Medical Association: www.bma.org.uk/doctorsfordoctors. • Doctors’ Support Network: www.dsn.org.uk. • Doctors’ Support Line: 0844 395 3010. • Sick Doctors Trust: www.sick-doctors-trust.co.uk. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 1155 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem tuoba gniknihT 16 The older person ‘To know how to grow old is the master-work of wisdom, and one of the most diffi cult chapters in the great art of living.’ Henri Amiel, Journal Intime, 21 Sept 1874. Ageing is an inevitable and irreversible decline in organ function that occurs with time, in the absence of
