Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


the great art of living.’ Henri Amiel, Journal Intime, 21 Sept 1874. Ageing is an inevitable and irreversible decline in organ function that occurs with time, in the absence of injury or illness, and despite the existence of complex path- ways of maintenance and repair. Healthy ageing is the maintenance of physical and mental abilities that enable well- being and independence in older age. Do not presume ageing. Look for preventable and reversible pathology. Old age does not cause disease (although it can increase vulnerability and recovery time). Look for ways to reduce disability and support older people in their own homes. Diff erences in the evaluation of the older person 1 Multiple pathologies: Elderly patients have, on average, six diagnosable disor- ders. Eff ects may be multiplicative. Treatment must be integrated. 2 Multiple aetiologies: One problem may have several causes, eg falls. Treating each alone may do little good, treating all may be of great benefi t. 3 Non-specifi c/atypical presentation: Delirium, dizziness, falls, mobility prob- lems, weight loss, and incontinence can be due to disorders in more than one organ system. Typical signs and symptoms may be absent. Ask about functional decline in activities of daily living—this may be the only symptom. 4 Missed or delayed diagnosis: The older person may decline quickly if treat- ment is delayed. Complications are common. Use a collateral history: what is the patient usually like? 5 Pharmacy and polypharmacy: NSAIDS, anticoagulants, anti-parkinson drugs, hypoglycaemic drugs, and psychoactive drugs can pose a particular risk in the older patient. Double check for interactions. Consider body weight, liver and re- nal function—drug doses may need to be modifi ed. The STOPP/START criteria detail >100 potentially inappropriate prescriptions and prescribing omissions relevant to the older patient.21 6 Prolonged recovery time: Anticipate and plan for this. Don’t forget nutrition. 7 Rehabilitation and social factors: Essential for healthy ageing. A quick ward assessment of the older person History: In addition to routine elements, include function in activities of daily liv- ing, continence, and social support. Ask if there is an advanced care directive and nominated proxy healthcare decision maker. Examination: • Appearance and aff ect: hygiene, nutrition, hydration. Briefl y assess mood. • Senses: vision, hearing, assess swallowing with 20mL of water. • Cognition: brief screening test, eg AMTS (p64), 2-step command. • Pulse and blood pressure: lying/sitting and standing. • Peripheral neurological exam: tone, power, wasting, active
