Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


with 20mL of water. • Cognition: brief screening test, eg AMTS (p64), 2-step command. • Pulse and blood pressure: lying/sitting and standing. • Peripheral neurological exam: tone, power, wasting, active range of movement. • Other periphery: pulses, oedema, skin integrity, pressure areas. • Walking: stand patient, balance, transfers, observe gait (be ready to assist). • Other systems: CV, respiratory, abdomen (don’t forget to palpate for bladder).22 Falls 50% aged >80 will fall at least once per year. Falls23 lead to injury, pain, distress, loss of confi dence, loss of independence, and mortality. Cost to the NHS is £2.3bn/year. • History: frequency, context and circumstances, severity, injuries. • Multifactorial risk assessment: gait, balance, muscle strength, osteoporosis risk, perceived functional ability, fear of falls, vision, cognition, neurological examina- tion, continence, home and hazards, cardiovascular examination, medication re- view. • Interventions: strength and balance training, home hazard intervention, correct vision, modifi cation/withdrawal of medication (cardiovascular, psychotropic), in- tegrated management of contributing morbidities. Consider barriers to change, eg fear, patient preference. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 1166 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem tuoba gniknihT The pregnant woman 17 Pre-existing conditions and non-obstetric disease cause more maternal deaths in the UK than obstetric complications.24 Pregnant women should receive the same investigations and treatment as non-preg- nant patients, with avoidance of harm/potential harm to the fetus whenever possible. Most mistakes made in the medical management of pregnant women are due to acts of omission caused by inappropriate weighting of risk and benefi t. Physiological changes in pregnancy Clinical assessment in pregnancy requires knowledge of the physiological changes associated with the gravid state. Expected changes and guidance on when to inves- tigate for possible underlying pathology is given in table 1.3. Table 1.3 Physiology and pathology in pregnancy System Normal pregnancy Consider pathology Cardiovascular BP before 20 weeks’ gestation Diastolic BP >80mmHg in 1st trimester  Heart rate Sustained tachycardia >100/min Respiratory Compensated respiratory Serum bicarbonate <18mmol/L alkalosis No change in PEFR Decrease in PEFR Respiratory rate by 10% Respiratory rate >20/min Renal GFR and creatinine clearance Creatinine >85μmol/L (eGFR not valid in pregnancy) Protein excretion Protein:creatinine ratio >30mg/mmol Endocrine Altered glucose handling Fasting glucose >5.0mmol/L Haematology Haemodilution Hb <10.5g/dL, platelets <100x109/L Radiology If the uterus is positioned outside the imaging fi eld of view, the radiation dose to the conceptus is minimal. Exposure from the following investigations is well below the threshold of risk to the fetus: • Plain radiograph: chest, extremities,
