Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


of view, the radiation dose to the conceptus is minimal. Exposure from the following investigations is well below the threshold of risk to the fetus: • Plain radiograph: chest, extremities, spine. • CT: head, chest (but consider radiation to maternal breast in pregnancy/lactation). Ultrasound and MRI are preferentially used when imaging the abdomen. Reassure your pregnant patient that a chest x-ray is safe. It is the equivalent of 3 days of background radiation. Do not presume it is not required—how else will you pick up the widened mediastinum as a cause for her chest pain? Drugs For drugs prescribed in pregnancy, benefi t must be balanced against risk (table 1.4). For information on drugs in lactation see: Table 1.4 Drugs in pregnancy Considered safe Contraindicated Penicillins Tetracycline/doxycycline Macrolides Ciprofl oxacin Low-molecular-weight heparin Trimethoprim (1st trimester) Aspirin NSAIDS (3rd trimester) Labetalol ACE-i Nifedipine ARA Adenosine Mycophenolate Prednisolone Warfarin Treatment for asthma: salbutamol, ipratropium, Live vaccines (MMR, BCG, Varicella) aminophylline, leukotriene antagonists Sepsis Do not underestimate sepsis in pregnancy. Septic shock can be rapid. Do not ignore tachypnoea. All pregnant women should receive the infl uenza vaccine. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 1177 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem tuoba gniknihT 18 Epidemiology ‘The work of epidemiology is related to unanswered questions, but also to un- questioned answers.’ Patricia Buffl er, North American Congress of Epidemiology, 2011. Who, what, when, where, why, and how? Epidemiology is the study of the distribution of clinical phenomena in populations. It analyses disease in terms of host, agent, and environment (the ‘epidemiologist’s triad’). It elucidates risks and mechanisms for the development of disease, and re- veals potential targets for disease prevention and treatment. Epidemiology does not look at the individual patient, but examines a defi ned population. How applicable its fi ndings are depend upon how well the sample population mirrors the study popula- tion, which must, in turn, mirror the target population. Does your patient fi t in this ‘target’? If ‘yes’, then the epidemiological fi ndings may be applicable. Measures of disease frequency Incidence proportion is the number of new cases of disease as a proportion of the population. Synonyms include probability of disease, cumulative incidence, risk. Incidence rate is the number of new cases per unit of person-time, ie one person observed for 5 years contributes 5 person-years of follow-up. Prevalence is the number of cases that exist at a given time (point prevalence) or time-frame (period prevalence), divided by
