Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


person observed for 5 years contributes 5 person-years of follow-up. Prevalence is the number of cases that exist at a given time (point prevalence) or time-frame (period prevalence), divided by the total population being studied. For example, the lifetime prevalence of hiccups is ~100% and incidence is millions/year. However, the point prevalence at 3am may be 0 if no one is actually having hiccups. Comparisons of outcome frequency Diff erences in outcome rates between populations point to an association between the outcome and factors distinguishing the populations (eg a smoking population compared to a non-smoking population). Challenges arise as populations tend to diff er from each other in many ways, so it may not be clear which factor(s) aff ect outcome frequency. This leads to confounding. For example, we might fi nd that heart disease is more common in those who use walking sticks. But we cannot con- clude that walking sticks cause heart disease as age is a confounding factor: age is causal, not walking sticks. Ways of accounting for associations: A may cause B (antacids cause cancer), B may cause A (cancer causes antacid use), a 3rd unknown agent X (eg age) may cause A and B, or the association may be a chance fi nding. When considering the options, it is useful to bear in mind the Bradford Hill ‘criteria’ for causation (NB he did not claim any were essential): 1 Consistency of fi ndings: among diff erent populations, studies, time periods. 2 Temporality: the eff ect must occur after the cause. 3 Biological gradient: a dose response whereby more exposure= more eff ect. 4 Specifi city: exposure causes a single outcome (smoking does not conform!). 5 Strength of association: strong associations are more likely to be causal. 6 Biological plausibility: there is a mechanism linking cause and eff ect. 7 Coherence: the relationship is supported by current disease knowledge. 8 Experiment: does removal of exposure reduce outcome frequency? Epidemiological studies Studies should be designed to give an adequate answer to a specifi c research ques- tion. Samples need to be representative and of suffi cient size to answer the question. Ecological studies: Outcome rates are examined in diff erent populations, eg trend over time, geographically distinct groups, social class. Populations rather than indi- viduals are the unit of study. Longitudinal (cohort) studies: Subjects are followed over time with measurement of exposure and outcome. Case–control studies: Patients
