Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


groups, social class. Populations rather than indi- viduals are the unit of study. Longitudinal (cohort) studies: Subjects are followed over time with measurement of exposure and outcome. Case–control studies: Patients with the outcome of interest are identifi ed and past exposure is assessed in comparison to ‘controls’ who did not develop the outcome. Cases and controls should be adequately matched for other factors that may aff ect outcome, or these diff erences should be corrected for (mathematical assumption). Experimental studies: Exposure is allocated to a study group and compared to those who are not exposed, eg randomized controlled trials. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 1188 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem tuoba gniknihT Randomized controlled trials 19 In a randomized controlled trial (RCT), participants are allocated to an intervention/ exposure (eg new drug treatment) or no intervention (eg placebo, standard care) by a process which equates to the fl ip of a coin, ie all participants have an equal chance of being in either arm of the study. The aim is to minimize bias and attempt to get at the truth as to whether the intervention is any good or not. Both groups are followed up and analysed against predefi ned end-points. Randomizing Done with the aim of eliminating the eff ects of non-studied factors. With randomization (and suffi cient study size) the two arms of the study will be identical (on average), with the exception of the intervention of interest. Blinding There is a risk that factors during the trial may aff ect the outcome, eg participant or clinician optimism if they know the patient is on active treatment, or an unwillingness to expose more severe disease to placebo. If the subject does not know which intervention they are having, the trial is single-blind. Ideally, the experi- menter should not know either, and the study should be double-blind. In a good trial, the blind lead the blind. Journal club: how good is this RCT? • Does the study answer a useful question? Does it add to current literature: big- ger, better, diff erent target population? • Does the target population in the study include your patient(s)? Check the inclu- sion and exclusion criteria including age and comorbidity. • Is the intervention well described so it can be replicated in clinical practice? • Was the sample size big enough to detect an eff ect? Can you fi nd a sample size calculation? Watch out for sub-group analyses
