Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


be replicated in clinical practice? • Was the sample size big enough to detect an eff ect? Can you fi nd a sample size calculation? Watch out for sub-group analyses for which the sample size was not calculated. • Were outcome measures predefi ned? • Is randomization adequate? Look at the baseline data for each group—are there signifi cant diff erences? Are any parameters of interest (that might aff ect out- come) not included? • Who was blinded and how blind were they? • Are statistical methods reported and appropriate? There should be a measure of the eff ect size and its precision (confi dence interval, see p20). • Is the eff ect clinically signifi cant? Watch out for surrogate end-points which do not directly measure benefi t, harm, or the treatment response of interest. • How long was the follow-up? Was it long enough to determine outcome? • How complete was the follow-up? How many patients were left at the end of the follow-up period? Were those who left the study included in the analysis (intention-to-treat)?25 When a randomized controlled trial might not be the best method • Generating new ideas beyond current paradigms (case reports). • Researching causes of illnesses and prognoses (cohort studies). • Evaluating diagnostic tests (cohort study and decision model). • Where the researcher has no idea of the eff ective dose of a drug (dose-ranging adaptive design). • When recruiting of patients would be impossible or unethical. • When personalized medicine is the aim, eg treatments matched to patients’ bio- marker profi les (adaptive design, cohort study). In the end, all randomized trials have to submit to the ultimate test when the sta- tistical collides with the personal: ‘Will this treatment help me?’, ‘Will this procedure help you?’ No randomized trial is complete until real-life decisions taken in the light of its fi ndings are scrutinized. Remember Osler: ‘no two individuals react alike and behave alike under the abnormal conditions which we know as disease. This is the fundamental diffi culty of the physician’. Do not ask for defi nitive trials: everything is provisional. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 1199 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem tuoba gniknihT 20 Medical mathematics ‘When you can measure what you are speaking about, and express it in numbers, you know something about it; but when you cannot measure it, when you cannot express it in numbers, your knowledge is of a meagre and unsatisfactory
