Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


unusual.26 You need to question why and decide if this is clinically important. Confi dence intervals (CI) give a guide to the eff ect size and direction (eg benefi t/ harm). They give a margin of error that indicates the amount of uncertainty in the statistical estimate. Assessing validity The validity of a test which dichotomizes study participants can be assessed by examining the results from the test against a standard reference (or outcome: did the participant actually have the disease?) (see table 1.6). Sensitivity TP/(TP + FN) = of those with the condition, how many test positive? A sensi- tive test is able to correctly identify those with the disease. Specifi city TN/(TN + FP) = of those who do not have the condition, how many test negative? A specifi c test is able to correctly identify those without a disease. ‘Do they have abdominal pain?’ as a test for appendicitis will have sensitivity (most cases have pain), but specifi city (many patients with pain do not have appendicitis). Positive predictive value (TP/(TP + FP) indicates how likely it is that someone with a positive test result has the condition. Negative predictive value (TN/(TN + FN) indicates how likely it is that someone with a negative test result does not have the condition. When you receive a test result, you need to know how likely it is to be correct. Table 1.6 Table of possible test results Test result Patient has condition Patient does not have condition Positive True positive (TP) False positive (FP) Negative False negative (FN) True negative (TN) __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 2200 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem tuoba gniknihT Number needed to treat 21 Number needed to treat (NNT) is a useful way of reporting the results of randomized clinical trials. It is the reciprocal of the absolute risk diff erence: 1 ÷ ARR. A large treatment eff ect means that fewer patients need to receive treatment in order for one to benefi t. It is specifi c to the chosen comparator (eg placebo or usual care), the measured outcome (eg death, blood pressure fall), and the duration of treatment follow-up used in the study. Look carefully at the details of the question that the NNT is attempting to quantify. • Advantages: easily calculated, single numerical value for effi cacy, can be used to examine harm (becomes the number needed to harm). • Disadvantages: confi dence intervals are diffi cult
