Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


• Advantages: easily calculated, single numerical value for effi cacy, can be used to examine harm (becomes the number needed to harm). • Disadvantages: confi dence intervals are diffi cult when the diff erences between treatments are not signifi cant. The doctor as a gambler Yes or No? Your tutor asks whether Gobble’s disease is commoner in women or men. You have no idea, and make a guess. What is the chance of getting it right? Common sense decrees that you have a 50:50 chance. Sod’s law predicts that whatever you guess, you will always be wrong. Somewhere between the two is Damon Runyon’s view that ‘all life is 6 to 5 against’: Will you pick the right answer? Perhaps, but don’t bet on it! New or existing disease? Suppose singultus is a rare symptom of Gobble’s dis- ease (seen in 5% of patients), but that it is a very common symptom of Kobble’s disease (seen in 90%). If we have a man whom we already know has Gobble’s disease, who goes on to develop singultus, is it more likely to be due to Kobble’s, rather than Gobble’s disease? The answer is usually no: it is generally the case that most symptoms are due to a disease that is already known, and do not imply a new disease (Occam’s razor, p4). The ‘odds ratio’ makes this clearer, ie the ratio of [the probability of the symptom, given the known disease] to [the probability of the symptom due to new disease ≈ the probability of developing the new dis- ease]. Usually this is vastly in favour of the symptom being due to the old disease, because of the prior odds of the two diseases. This will work until Kobble’s dis- ease increases in prevalence so as to increase the odds of a second disease (then Hickam trumps Occam, p4). How to play the odds It is distasteful to think that doctors can gamble with patients’ lives. It is also distasteful to think of serious diseases being ‘missed’, and invasive procedures being done unnecessarily. Yet we do not have an evidence base or an experience base which can tell us defi nitively which cough or lethargy or sore toe is just ‘one of those things’, and which is the result of undiagnosed cancer or HIV or osteomyelitis. And so we gamble. Medicine is not for pessimists—almost anything can be made to seem
