Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


of those things’, and which is the result of undiagnosed cancer or HIV or osteomyelitis. And so we gamble. Medicine is not for pessimists—almost anything can be made to seem fatal, so that a pessimistic doctor would never get any sleep at night due to worry about the meaning of their patients’ symptoms. Medicine is not for blind optimists either, who too easily embrace a fool’s paradise of false reassurance. Rather, medicine is for informed gamblers: gamblers who are happy to use subtle clues to change their outlook from pessimism to optimism and vice versa. Sometimes the gambling is scientifi c, rational, methodical, and reproducible (odds ratio); sometimes it instinc- tual, due to clinical intuition (vital but ill-defi ned). Of course, gambling inevitably results in losses, and in medicine the chips are not just fi nancial. They betoken the health of your patient, your reputation, and your confi dence. Perhaps the hardest part of medicine is the inevitability of making mistakes whilst attempting to help (see ‘Being wrong’, p5). But do not worry about gambling: gambling is your job. If you cannot gamble, you cannot walk the thin line between successfully addressing health needs, and causing over-medicalization (p23). But try hard to assemble suffi cient evidence to maximize the chances of being lucky. Lucky gambling is a requisite for successful doctoring and the casino of medical practice celebrates the card counter. But the cardinal clinical virtue is courage: without it we would not follow our hunches and take justifi ed risks. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 2211 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem tuoba gniknihT 22 Evidence-based medicine (EBM) EBM is the conscientious and judicious use of current, best research evidence to opti- mize management plans and integrate them with patients’ values by: 1 Asking answerable questions. 2 Finding the best information. 3 Appraising the information for quality, validity, and relevance. 4 Dialogue to fi nd out what the patient wants. 5 Applying data to patient care. 6 Evaluation. The amount of evidence More than 2 million new biomedical papers are published each year including >20 000 new randomized trials. Patients benefi t directly from a tiny fraction of these papers. How do we fi nd them? • A hierarchy of evidence (fi g 1.3) is used to identify the best research available to answer our question. • Specialist EBM journals, eg Evidence-based Med- icine, appraise published information for quality, relevance, and interest on our behalf. •
