Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


to identify the best research available to answer our question. • Specialist EBM journals, eg Evidence-based Med- icine, appraise published information for quality, relevance, and interest on our behalf. • The Cochrane Collabora- tion gathers and summa- rizes best evidence, free from commercial spon- sorship and confl icts of Fig 1.3 Hierarchy of evidence. interest. >37 000 research- EBM Pyramid and EBM Page Generator, copyright 2006 Trustees of ers from 130 countries Dartmouth College and Yale University. contribute. Problems: • The concept of scientifi c rigour is opaque. What do we want? The science, the rigour, the truth, or what will be most useful to patients? These may overlap, but they are not the same. Can average cohort results inform clinical decisions on an individual level (especially in the context of comorbidity)? • Can we really appraise ALL the evidence? 27 We are hindered by publication bias. Around half of all clinical trials remain unpublished. See www.alltrials.net for the cam- paign to register all trials, and ensure methods and summary results are available. • Evidence can be expensive. Who paid the bill and what is their vested interest? • Is the result clinically signifi cant? What is the level of benefi t to the individual, as opposed to the population? Is the EBM tail wagging the clinical dog? • How is our innate hierarchy of evidence constructed? Do we maintain the same standard of the evidence for all changes to our practice? • Have you checked the correspondence columns in journals from which winning papers are extracted? It may take years for unforeseen fl aws to surface. • There is a danger that by always asking, ‘What is the evidence?’, we will divert resources from hard-to-prove areas (eg psychosocial interventions). • EBM is never 100% up to date and reworking meta-analyses takes time and mon- ey. Specialists may ostensibly reject a new trial due to a tiny fl aw, when the real dread is that it might fl ip their once-perfect formulation. • EBM lies uncomfortably in a world of clinical intuition and instinctual premoni- tion. Yet these instincts may be vital. • If EBM is prescriptive, patient choice declines. Does our zeal for EBM make us ar- rogant, mechanical, and defensive? Where is the shared decision-making (p7)? • By focusing on answerable questions, EBM can distract us from our patients’ un- answerable questions; questions that still require time and
