Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


and defensive? Where is the shared decision-making (p7)? • By focusing on answerable questions, EBM can distract us from our patients’ un- answerable questions; questions that still require time and acknowledgement. The practice of EBM must be informed by clinical judgement and compassion. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 2222 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem tuoba gniknihT Medicalization 23 Using Illness as a Metaphor,8 Susan Sontag describes two kingdoms: that of the well, and that of the sick. She describes our dual citizenship, and the use of a pass- port to travel from one kingdom to the other. But medicalization blurs this distinc- tion. The boundary between the ‘Kingdom of the Sick’ and the ‘Kingdom of Well’ is lost and there is an anschluss of healthy people annexed into the potentially preda- tory and frightening kingdom of the sick from which there may well be no escape. ‘Too much medicine’ occurs as a result of: • Overdiagnosis: Labelling an (asymptomatic) person as ‘sick’ despite the fact that subsequent treatment, lifestyle advice, or monitoring provides no benefi t to their outcome (and potentially causes harm), eg non-progressive breast cancer. • Overdetection: Increasingly sensitive tests identify pathology that is indolent or non-progressive, eg subsegmental pulmonary emboli diagnosed on CT angiography. • Overdefi niton: Expansion of disease defi nitions or lowering of disease thresholds, eg an eGFR diagnosis of chronic kidney disease now means that 1 in 8 adults are labelled with the disease, many of whom will never progress to symptomatic kid- ney failure; 15% of pregnant women now have subclinical hypothyroidism without evidence that thyroxine replacement is benefi cial (2016). • Disease mongering: The creation of pseudodiseases which pose no threat to health, eg restless legs, sexual health dysfunction, multiple chemical sensitivity. • Overutilization: Healthcare practice that provides no net benefi t, eg routine MRI for lower back pain. • Overtreatment: Treatment that is of no benefi t (and may cause harm), eg antibiot- ics for viral infections, polypill for the population. Too much medicine arises from the fear of missing a diagnosis, and concern about avoidable morbidity or mortality. A punitive society means there is a perceived need for more tests, to seek more certainty. But certainty is the holy grail of myth and legend. The individual patient is a unique set of symptoms, stoicism, experience, and need. And by the nature of life, all cure can only ever be temporary. Choosing wisely CHOOSING WISELY is an
