Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


the upper whereby geese (and medical students) limbs 66 are forcibly stuff ed by funnel to fatten Neurological examination of the lower them for the delight of gluttons. We are limbs 68 too familiar with the three Rs of medical Cranial nerve examination 70 education: RamRememberRegurgitate, Cranial nerve lesions of the eye 72 a sequence that turns once-bright medi- Musculoskeletal hand examination 74 cal students into tearful wrecks. Luckily in the realm of History & Examination we can The peripheral vascular system: fl ee the library and alight at the bedside, Examination 78 bearing in mind another of Osler’s aphor- Arterial 79 isms: ‘He who studies medicine without Venous 79 books sails an uncharted sea, but he who The genitourinary system: studies medicine without patients does not History 80 go to sea at all.’ The breast: History 82 Examination 83 The thyroid: Examination 84 Speech and higher mental function 86 Movement disorders 87 Psychiatric assessment 88 Method and order for routine examination 90 We thank Dr Petra Sulentic, our Specialist Reader, for her contribution to this chapter. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 2244 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 Advice and experience 25 1 The way to learn physical signs is at the bedside, with guidance from a senior doc- tor or an experienced colleague. This chapter is not a substitute for this process: it is simply an aide-memoire both on the wards and when preparing for exams. 2 We ask questions to get information to help with diff erential diagnosis. But we also ask questions to fi nd out about the lives our patients live so that we can respect them as individuals. The patient is likely to notice and reciprocate this respect, and the rapport that you build with your patient in this way is a key com- ponent to diagnosing and managing their disease. 3 Patients (and diseases) rarely read textbooks, so don’t be surprised that some symptoms are ambiguous, and others meaningless. Get good at recognizing pat- terns, but not so good that you create them when none exist. We all fall into this trap! 4 Signs can be easy to detect, or subtle. Some will be found by all the new medical students, others require experienced ears or eyes. Remember, you can be a fi ne doctor without being able to elicit every sign.1 However, fi nding signs and put- ting together the clues they give us to fi nd a diagnosis is
