Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


a fi ne doctor without being able to elicit every sign.1 However, fi nding signs and put- ting together the clues they give us to fi nd a diagnosis is one of the best parts of being a doctor. It is also essential that we learn those signs that highlight diseases we should never miss. However, in an exam, if you cannot fi nd a sign, never be tempted to make up something you think should be there. If the examiner is push- ing you to describe something you cannot see, be honest and admit you cannot see it. Learning is a lifelong process, and nobody becomes a consultant overnight. Developing your own routine While on the acute medical or surgical take you will ‘clerk’ countless numbers of patients. This involves taking a full history: history-taking may seem deceptively easy, as if the patient knew the hard facts and the only problem was extracting them; but what a patient says is a mixture of hearsay (‘She said I looked very pale’), innuendo (‘You know, doctor, down below’), legend (‘I suppose I bit my tongue; it was a real fi t, you know’), exaggeration (‘I didn’t sleep a wink’), and improbabilities (‘The Pope put a transmitter in my brain’). The great skill (and pleasure) in taking a history lies not in ignoring these garbled messages, but in making sense of them. Next you will likely perform all the core examinations (cardiovascular, respiratory, abdominal, and neurological) and any relevant additional ones (eg breast, thyroid, peripheral vascular). No two doctors will have identical examination techniques. Relish this variation as it helps you craft your own routine. An insightful student Having a template for the all-important history and examination is no more than a rough guide and you must fl esh it out with your own learning. We start out nerv- ous of missing some question or sign, but what we should really be nervous about is losing our humanity in the hurly-burly of a time-pressed interview. Here is how one student put some fl esh on the bones—for a man in a wheelchair: she asked all about the presenting complaint, and how it fi tted in with his CNS condition and life at home—and then found out that his daughter had had a nervous breakdown at the start of his illness, 5 years ago. ‘How is she now?’ she asked. ‘Fine—I’ve got two
