Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


home—and then found out that his daughter had had a nervous breakdown at the start of his illness, 5 years ago. ‘How is she now?’ she asked. ‘Fine—I’ve got two lovely grand children…Jim is just learning to walk…’ ‘Oh…you must be so busy!’ the student said with a joyful smile. This man had not been busy for 5 years, and was fed up with his passive dependency. The thought of being busy again made his face light up—and when the student left he rose up out of his wheelchair to shake her by the hand, a movement we doctors thought was impossible. Jim and his grandfather were learning to walk, but this student was up and running—far ahead of her teachers. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 2255 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 26 Taking a history Taking a good history is an art and an essential skill: 80% of diagnoses should be made on history alone, with the signs you elicit adding an extra 10% and tests only giving the fi nal 5% or so. Do not rely on signs or investigations for your diagnosis, but use them rather to confi rm what you suspected. Try to put the patient at ease: a good rapport may relieve distress. Introduce yourself and check whether the patient is comfortable. Be conversational rather than interrogative. Start with open ques- tions, allow the patient to tell their story, but if they stray off topic, gently steer them back towards the important points. Presenting complaint (PC) Open questions: ‘Why have you come to see me today?’ Record the patient’s own words rather than medical terms. History of presenting complaint (HPC) When did it start? What was the fi rst thing noticed? Progress since then. Ever had it before? ‘SOCRATES’ questions: site; onset (gradual, sudden); character; radiation; associations (eg nausea, sweating); timing of pain/duration; exacerbating and alleviating factors; severity (eg scale of 1–10, compared with worst ever previous pain). Direct questioning (to narrow list of possible diagnoses). Specifi c or ‘closed’ questions about the diff erential diagnoses you have in mind (+risk factors, eg travel—p414) and a review of the relevant system. Past medical history (PMH) Ever in hospital? Illnesses? Operations? Ask specifi - cally about MIJTHREADS: MI, jaundice, TB, high BP, rheumatic fever, epilepsy, asthma, diabetes, stroke, anaesthetic problems. Drug history (DH) Any tablets, injections, ‘over-the-counter’ drugs, herbal remedies, oral contraceptives? Ask about allergies and what the patient experienced,
