Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


high BP, rheumatic fever, epilepsy, asthma, diabetes, stroke, anaesthetic problems. Drug history (DH) Any tablets, injections, ‘over-the-counter’ drugs, herbal remedies, oral contraceptives? Ask about allergies and what the patient experienced, eg may be an intolerance (nausea, diarrhoea), or may have been a minor reaction of sensiti- zation (eg rash and wheeze) before full-blown anaphylaxis. Social history (SH) Probe without prying. ‘Who else is there at home?’ Job. Marital status. Spouse’s job and health. Housing—any stairs at home? Who visits—relatives, neighbours, GP, nurse? Are there any dependants at home? Mobility—any walking aids needed? Who does the cooking and shopping? What can the patient not do be- cause of the illness? Ask about occupation, hobbies, sport, exercise, and ethnic origin. The social history is all too often seen as a dispensable adjunct but vital clues may be missed about the quality of life and it is too late to ask when the surgeon’s hand is deep in the belly and they are wondering how radical a procedure to perform. Utilize the GP’s knowledge of the patient: they may have known them and/or their family for decades. He or she may even hold a ‘living will’ or advance directive if they cannot speak for themselves. Tactfully ask about alcohol, tobacco, and recreational drugs. How much? How long? When stopped? 1 unit = 8g of ethanol = 1 spirits measure = 1/2 glass of wine = 1/3 pint of beer. The CAGE questionnaire is a useful screening test for alcoholism (p281). Quantify smoking in terms of pack-years: 20 cigarettes/day for 1 year equals 1 pack-year. We all like to present ourselves well, so be inclined to double stated quantities (Holt’s ‘law’). Family history (FH) Areas of the family history may need detailed questioning, eg to determine if there is a signifi cant family history of heart disease you need to ask about the health of the patient’s grandfathers and male siblings, smoking, tendency to hypertension, hyperlipidaemia, and claudication before they were 60 years old, as well as ascertaining the cause of death. Ask about TB, diabetes, and other relevant diseases. Draw a family tree (see BOX). Be tactful when asking about a family history of malignancy. Systemic enquiry (See p30.) Helps uncover undeclared symptoms. Some of this may already have been incorporated into the history.  Always enquire, without sounding robotic, if your patient has any ideas of what the problem might be, if
