Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Some of this may already have been incorporated into the history.  Always enquire, without sounding robotic, if your patient has any ideas of what the problem might be, if he/she has any particular concerns or expectations, and give him/her an opportunity to ask you questions or tell you anything you may have missed. Don’t hesitate to review the history later: recollections change (as you will fi nd, often on the post-take ward round when the Consultant is asking the questions!). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 2266 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH Drawing family trees to reveal dominantly inherited disease 27 Advances in genetics are touching all branches of medicine. It is increasingly im- portant for doctors to identify patients at high risk of genetic disease, and to make appropriate referrals. The key skill is drawing a family tree to help you structure a family history as follows: 1 Start with your patient. Draw a square for a male and a circle for a female. Add a small arrow (see fi g 2.2) to show that this person is the propositus (the person through whom the family tree is ascertained). 2 Add your patient’s parents, brothers, and sisters. Record basic information only, eg age, and if alive and well (a&w). If dead, note age and cause of death, and pass an oblique stroke through that person’s symbol. 3 Ask the key question ‘Has anybody else in your family had a similar problem as yourself?’, eg heart attack/angina/stroke/cancer. Ask only about the family of diseases that relate to your patient’s main problem. Do not record a potted medical history for each family member: time is too short. 4 Extend the family tree upwards to include grandparents. If you haven’t revealed a problem by now, go no further—you are unlikely to miss important familial disease. If your patient is elderly it may be impossible to obtain good informa- tion about grandparents. If so, fi ll out the family tree with your patient’s uncles and aunts on both the mother’s and father’s sides. 5 Shade those in the family tree aff ected by the disease. • = an aff ected female;  = an aff ected male. This helps to show any genetic problem and, if there is one, will help demonstrate the pattern of inheritance. 6 If you have identifi ed a familial susceptibility, or your patient has a recognized genetic disease, extend the family tree
