Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


is one, will help demonstrate the pattern of inheritance. 6 If you have identifi ed a familial susceptibility, or your patient has a recognized genetic disease, extend the family tree down to include children, to identify others who may be at risk and who may benefi t from screening. You should fi nd out who is pregnant in the family, or may soon be, and arrange appropriate genetic counselling (OHCS p154). Refer for genetics opinion. The family tree (fi g 2.2) shows these ideas at work and indicates that there is evidence for genetic risk of colon cancer, meriting referral to a geneticist. N.B: use a diff erent approach in paediatrics, and for autosomal or sex-linked disease. Ask if parents are related (consanguinity risk of recessive diseases). Fig 2.2 Genetic risk of colon cancer in a family tree. Acknowlegement The box in this section owes much to Dr Helen Firth, who we thank. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 2277 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 28 Symptoms Symptoms are features which patients report. Physical signs are elicited at the bedside. Together, they constitute the features of the condition in that patient. Their evolution over time and interaction with the physical, psychological, and social spheres comprise the natural history of any disease. Throughout this chapter, we discuss symptoms in isolation and attempt to classify them into a ‘system’ or present them in the following BOXES as ‘non-specifi c’. This is unnatural but a good fi rst step in learning how to diagnose. All doctors have to know about symptoms and their relief. Part of becoming a good doctor is learning to link symptoms together, to identify those that may be normal, and those that are worrying. There are many online tools and books that can help with this, but there is no substitute for experience. If you aren’t sure, ask a specialist in that area for advice. The following are common ‘non-specifi c’ presentations. Itch Itching (pruritus) Common and, if chronic, most unpleasant. Table 2.1 Aetiology of pruritus Local causes Systemic (do FBC, ESR, glucose, LFT, U&E, ferritin, TFT) Eczema, atopy, urticaria Liver disease (bile salts, eg PBC) Old age; pregnancy Scabies Uraemia (eg CKD) Drugs (eg morphine) Lichen planus Malignancy (eg lymphoma) Diabetes mellitus Dermatitis herpetiformis Polycythaemia rubra vera Thyroid disease Spinal cord tumours (rare)2 Iron defi ciency anaemia HIV infection Questions: Wheals (urticaria)? Worse at night? Others aff ected (scabies)? What provokes it? After
