Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


(its abuse causes paradoxical pro-adrenergic trem- or and insomnia). Try monitoring quality with a sleep diary (unless already over- obsessive). Music and relaxation may make sleep more restorative and augment personal resources. Hypnotic drugs. Give for a few nights only (addictive and cause daytime somno- lence ± rebound insomnia on stopping). Warn about driving/machine use. Exam- ple: zopiclone 3.75–7.5mg. Obstructive sleep apnoea, p194. Parasomnias, sleep paralysis, etc. OHCS p371. Narcolepsy, p700. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 2299 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 30 Systemic enquiry Just as skilled acrobats are happy to work without safety nets, so experienced clini- cians may operate without the functional enquiry. But to do this you must be experi- enced enough to understand all the nuances of the presenting complaint. General questions May be the most signifi cant, eg in TB, endocrine problems, or cancer: • Weight loss. • Night sweats. • Any lumps. • Fatigue/malaise/lethargy. • Sleeping pattern.1 • Appetite. • Fevers. • Itch or rash. • Recent trauma. Cardiorespiratory symptoms • Chest pain (p94). • Exertional dyspnoea (=breathlessness): quantify exercise tolerance and how it has changed, eg stairs climbed, or distance walked, before onset of breathlessness. • Paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnoea (PND). Orthopnoea, ie breathlessness on lying fl at (a symptom of left ventricular failure): quantify in terms of number of pillows the patient must sleep on to prevent dyspnoea. • Oedema: ankles, legs, lower back (dependent areas). • Palpitations (awareness of heartbeats): can they tap out the rhythm? • Cough: sputum, haemoptysis (coughing up blood). • Wheeze. Gastrointestinal symptoms • Abdominal pain (constant or colicky, sharp or dull; site; radiation; duration; onset; severity; relationship to eating and bowel action; alleviating or exacerbating, or associated features). • Other questions—think of symptoms throughout the GI tract, from mouth to anus: • Swallowing (p250). • Indigestion (p252). • Nausea/vomiting; blood? (p250). • Bowel habit (p258 & p260). • Stool: colour, consistency, blood, mucus; diffi culty fl ushing away (p266); tenes- mus or urgency. Tenesmus is the feeling of incomplete evacuation of the bowels (eg due to a tumour or irritable bowel syndrome). Haematemesis is vomiting blood. Melaena is altered (black) blood passed PR (p256), with a characteristic off ensive smell and tar like appearance. Genitourinary symptoms • Incontinence (stress or urge, p648). • Dysuria (painful micturition). • Urinary abnormalities: colour? Haematuria (streaks or pink urine?) Frothy? • Nocturia (needing to micturate at night). • Frequency (frequent micturition) or polyuria (the
