Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


examination gets briefer. Establish your own routine—practice is the key. End of the bed • Look at the patient—are they well or in extremis? What makes you think this? Are they in pain? If so, does it make them lie still (eg peritonitis) or writhe about (eg colic)? What is the pattern of breathing: laboured; rapid; shallow; irregular; distressed? Are they obese or cachectic? Is their behaviour appropriate? Can you detect any unusual smell, eg hepatic fetor (p274), cigarettes, alcohol? • Also take a moment to look around the bed for other clues, eg inhalers, insulin administration kit, walking aids, etc. Face and body habitus • Does the patient’s appearance suggest any particular diseases, eg acromegaly, thy- rotoxicosis, myxoedema, Cushing’s syndrome, or hypopituitarism? See p202. • Is there an abnormal distribution of body hair (eg bearded , or hairless ) sug- gestive of endocrine disease? • Is there anything about the patient to trigger thoughts about Paget’s disease, Mar- fan’s, myotonia, or Parkinson’s syndrome? Look for rashes, eg the malar fl ush of mitral disease and the butterfl y rash of SLE. Peripheral stigmata of disease Specifi c signs are associated with diff erent diseases: consider the nails (koilonychia = iron defi ciency), subcutaneous nodules (rheumatoid, neurofi broma?), and look for lymph nodes (cervical, axillary, inguinal). See specifi c systems for features to assess for, but for all systems consider: Skin colour: • Blue/purple = cyanosis (can also be central only, p34). • Yellow = jaundice (yellow skin can also be caused by uraemia, pernicious anaemia, carotenaemia—check the sclera: if they are also yellow it is jaundice). • Pallor: this is non-specifi c; anaemia is assessed from the palmar skin creases (when spread) and conjunctivae (fi g 8.3)—usually pale if Hb <80–90g/L: you cannot con- clude anything from normal conjunctival colour, but if they are pale, the patient is probably anaemic. • Hyperpigmentation: Addison’s, haemoc hromatosis (slate-grey) and amiodarone, gold, silver, and minocycline therapy. Charts: • Temperature: varies during the day; a morning oral temperature >37.2°C or evening >37.7°C constitutes a fever.3 Rectal temperatures are generally 0.6°C above oral temperatures. Remember that temperatures are generally lower in elderly patients and therefore fevers may not be as pronounced.4 A core temperature <35°C indi- cates hypothermia; special low-reading thermometers may be required. • Blood pressure and pulse—trends are more important than one-off values; repeat if concerned. • Urine: check urinalysis and input/output
