Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


<35°C indi- cates hypothermia; special low-reading thermometers may be required. • Blood pressure and pulse—trends are more important than one-off values; repeat if concerned. • Urine: check urinalysis and input/output charts if available. Fluid status When admitting an unwell patient, don’t forget to assess their hydra- tion, check skin turgor and mucous membranes, look for sunken eyes, and check capillary refi ll (if well perfused <2s) and JVP. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 3322 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH Unexplained signs and symptoms: how to refer for an opinion 33 When you don’t know: ask. If you are wondering if you should ask: ask. Frequently, the skills needed for diagnosis or treatment will lie beyond the team you are working for, so, during ward rounds, agree who should be asked for an opinion. You will be left with the job of making the arrangements, so check before your senior leaves exactly what their question is. Don’t be intimidated, but follow these simple rules: • Know the history and examination fi ndings (ideally your own), and have the pa- tient’s notes, observations, recent test results, and drug charts to hand (table 2.2). • At the outset, state if you are just looking for advice or if you are asking if the patient could be seen. Make it clear exactly what the question is that you want addressed, allowing the listener to focus their thoughts and ask relevant questions. • Give the patient’s age and run through a brief history including relevant past medical history. If you would like the patient to be seen, give warning if they will be leaving the ward for a test at a particular time. • The visiting doctor may be unfamiliar with your ward. When he or she arrives introduce yourself, get the notes and charts, and give your contact details in case they have further questions. Table 2.2 Referring for a specialist opinion Team Key questions Anaesthetics Previous anaesthetic? Reaction? Last ate/drank? Cardiology Known IHD? BP? ECG fi ndings? Echo fi ndings? Murmurs? Troponin? Temperature/possibility of endocarditis? (ESR, microscopic haematuria, etc. p150) Dermatology Site, onset, and appearance of rash? Drugs? Systemic disease? History of atopy? Endocrinology Diabetes: blood glucose, usual insulin regimen, complications. Other: blood results? Stable/unstable—eg Addisonian crisis. Usual steroid dose? Gastroenterology/ Bleeding: Rockall score (p257)? Shock? Diarrhoea: blood? Hepatology Foreign travel? Frequency per day? Liver disease: signs of decompensation (p274)? Ascites? Encephalopathy grade? Gynaecology/ LMP? Possibility of
