Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


hypothyroid ism, hypopituitarism, and albinism. Anaemia is haemoglobin concentration <130g/L in men and <120g/L in non-pregnant women (p324). It may be assessed from the conjunctivae and skin creases. Koilo- nychia and stomatitis (p32) suggest iron defi ciency. Anaemia with jaundice suggests haemolysis. If pallor just one limb or digit, think of emboli. Skin discolouration Generalized hyperpigmentation may be genetic (racial) or due to radiation; ACTH (cross-reacts with melanin receptors, eg Addison’s disease (p226), Nelson’s syn- drome (p76), ectopic ACTH in bronchial carcinoma); chronic kidney disease (urea, p302); malabsorption; chloasma (seen in pregnancy or with the oral contraceptive pill); biliary cirrhosis; haemochromatosis (‘bronzed diabetes’); carotenaemia; or drugs (eg chlorpromazine, busulfan, amiodarone, gold). Obesity Defi ned by the World Health Organization as a BMI of over 30kg/m2. A higher waist to hip ratio, indicating central fat distribution, is commoner in  and is associated with greater health risks, which include type 2 diabetes mellitus, IHD, dyslipidaemia, BP, osteoarthritis of weight-bearing joints, and cancer (breast and bowel); see p206. The majority of cases are not due to specifi c metabolic disorders. Lifestyle change is key to treatment, to increase energy expenditure and reduce intake (p244). Medica- tion ± surgery may be considered if the patient fulfi ls strict criteria (BMI of 40 kg/m2 or more, or between 35 kg/m2 and 40 kg/m2 and other signifi cant disease that could improve with weight loss, non-surgical measures have been tried and failed, patient receives intensive management in a tier 3 service, and fi t for anaesthesia and sur- gery). Conditions associated with obesity include: genetic (Prader–Willi syndrome, Lawrence–Moon syndrome), hypothyroidism, Cushing’s syndrome, and hypothalamic damage (eg tumour or trauma  damage to satiety regions). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 3344 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH Lymphadenopathy 35 Causes of lymphadenopathy are either reactive or infi ltrative: Reactive: Infective: • Bacterial: eg pyogenic, TB, brucella, syphilis. • Viral: EBV, HIV, CMV, infectious hepatitis. • Others: toxoplasmosis, trypanosomiasis. Non-infective: sarcoidosis, amyloidosis, berylliosis, connective tissue disease (eg rheumatoid, SLE), dermatological (eczema, psoriasis), drugs (eg phenytoin). Infi ltrative: Benign histiocytosis—OHCS p644, lipoidoses. Malignant: • Haematological: lymphoma or leukaemia: ALL, CLL, AML (p356). • Metastatic carcinoma: from breast, lung, bowel, prostate, kidney, or head and neck cancers. Oedema (See p579.) Pitting oedema: Fluid can either be squeezed out of the veins (increased hydrostatic pressure, eg DVT, right heart failure) or diff use out because of reduced oncotic pres- sure (low plasma proteins, eg cirrhosis,
