Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


either be squeezed out of the veins (increased hydrostatic pressure, eg DVT, right heart failure) or diff use out because of reduced oncotic pres- sure (low plasma proteins, eg cirrhosis, nephrotic syndrome, protein-losing enter- opathy) leading to an osmotic gradient with the tissues (fi g 2.9, p39, p579). The cause of oedema is still not completely understood.5 Periorbital oedema: Oedema around the face has a very diff erent diff erential; the eyelid skin is very thin so periorbital oedema is usually the fi rst sign—think of al- lergies (contact dermatitis, eg from eye make-up, stings), angioedema (can be hereditary), infection (orbital cellulitis can be life-threatening, refer to hospital immediately if concerned, other infections include EBV and sinusitis); if there is prop- tosis (p219) think Graves’ disease, connective tissue diseases (eg dermatomyositis, SLE, sarcoid, amyloid); and many others. Assess for systemic disease before putting it down to allergies. Non-pitting oedema: Ie non-indentable, is lymphoedema due to poor lymphatic drainage. Can be due to radiotherapy, malignant infi ltration, infection, fi lariasis, or rarely primary lymphoedema (Milroy’s syndrome p706). Weight loss Weight loss can be both a symptom (ie reported by the patient) and a sign (identifi ed by physician). A feature of chronic disease, depression, malnutrition, malignancy, chronic infections (eg TB, HIV/enteropathic AIDS), diabetes mellitus, and hyperthy- roidism (typically in the presence of increased appetite). Severe generalized muscle wasting is also seen as part of a number of degenerative neurological diseases and in cardiac failure (cardiac cachexia), although in the latter, right heart failure may not make weight loss a major complaint. Do not forget ano- rexia nervosa (OHCS p382) as an underlying cause of weight loss. Rule out treatable causes, eg diabetes is easy to diagnose—TB can be very hard. For example, the CXR may look like cancer so don’t forget to send bronchoscopy samples for ZN stain and TB culture. Unintentional weight loss should always ring alarm bells, so assess patients carefully. Cachexia General muscle wasting from famine, or eating (dementia; stroke; MND, p506; ano- rexia nervosa), malabsorption (enterop athic AIDS/slim disease/Cryptos por idium; Whipple’s) or catabolism (neoplasia; CCF; TB; chronic kidney disease; leptin).6 __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 3355 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 36 The cardiovascular system: history Table 2.3 Presenting symptoms and questions to ask Presenting Direct questions symptoms Chest pain Site? Central? (see pp94–5 Onset? (Sudden? What was the patient doing?) and p784) Character? Ask patient to describe pain (Crushing?
