Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


and questions to ask Presenting Direct questions symptoms Chest pain Site? Central? (see pp94–5 Onset? (Sudden? What was the patient doing?) and p784) Character? Ask patient to describe pain (Crushing? Heavy?). Radiation? Ask specifi cally if moves to arm, neck, or jaw? Associations? Ask specifi cally about shortness of breath, nausea, sweating. Timing? Duration? Exacerbating and alleviating factors? Worse with respiration or move- ment (less likely to be angina)? Relieved by GTN? Worse on inspiration and better when sitting forwards (pericarditis)? Severity: out of 10? Is patient known to have angina or chest pain; better/worse/same as usual pain; is it more frequent? Decreasing exercise tolerance? NB: ‘heartburn’ more likely if ‘burning’, onset after eating/drinking, worse lying fl at, or associated with dysphagia. Palpitations ‘Ever aware of your own heartbeat’? When and how did it start/stop? Duration? Onset sudden/gradual? Associated with blackout (how long)? Chest pain? Dyspnoea? Food related (eg caff eine)? Regular fast palpitations may refl ect paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) or ventricular tachycardia (VT). Irregular fast palpitations are likely to be paroxysmal AF, or atrial fl ut- ter with variable block. Dropped or missed beats related to rest, recumbency, or eating are likely to be atrial or ventricular ectopics. Regular pounding may be due to anxiety. Slow palpitations are likely to be due to drugs such as -blockers, or bigeminus (fi g 3.34, p129). Reassurance is vital and can be therapeutic. Check a TSH and consider a 24h ECG (Holter monitor, p125). An event recorder, if available, is better than 24h ECGS. Dyspnoea Duration? At rest? On exertion? Determine exercise tolerance (and any (see p52, other reason for limitation, eg arthritis). NYHA classifi cation (p135)? and p782) Worse when lying fl at, how many pillows does the patient sleep with (orthopnoea)? Does the patient ever wake up in the night gasping for breath (paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnoea), and how often? Any ankle swelling? Dizziness/ Dizziness is a loose term, so try to clarify if your patient means: did blackouts patient lose consciousness, and for how long (short duration suggests (see pp460–3) cardiac while longer duration suggests a neurological cause)? Any warning (pre-syncope)? What was patient doing at the time? Sudden/ gradual? Associated symptoms? Any residual symptoms, eg confusion? How long did it take for patient to return to ‘normal’? Tongue biting (pp460–1), seizure, incontinence? Witnessed? Memory loss pre/post event? Vertigo (p462), the illusion of rotation of either the patient or
