Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


(palpate pulse bilaterally simultaneously), radiofemoral delay (palpate ipsilateral pulses simultaneously), collapsing pulse (identify radial pulse (fi g 2.5), then wrap your fi ngers around wrist. Before el- evating arm from the elbow check for pain in arm/ shoulder. Lift arm straight up: collapsing pulse, felt as ‘waterhammer’ pulsation. Fig 2.5 Radial pulse. • Brachial: (Just medial to tendinous insertion of Reproduced from Thomas J, et al. (eds). Oxford Handbook of Clinical biceps.) Waveform character. Examination and Practical Skills (2014), with permission from Oxford University Press. 4 Blood pressure • Hyper- or hypotensive? • Pulse pressure (wide = aortic regurgitation, ar- teriosclerosis, narrow = aortic stenosis, dry) 5 Neck • JVP: Ask patient to turn head to the left and look at the supraclavicular fossa (see fi g 2.6 and p43). Comment on the height of the JVP and waveform. Fig 2.6 The JVP. Press on the abdomen to check the abdomino- Reproduced from Thomas J, et al. jugular refl ex. (eds). Oxford Handbook of Clinical • Carotid pulse: inspect (visible carotid = Cor- Examination and Practical Skills rigan's sign of aortic regurgitation), and palpate (2014), with permission from Oxford volume and character on one side then the other. University Press. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 3388 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 6 Face 39 • Colour: Pale, fl ushed, central cyanosis • Features: Corneal/senile arcus (fi g 2.7), xanthe- lasma (see fi g 2.29, p60) • Pallor of the conjunctiva (anaemia) • Malar fl ush (mitral stenosis) • Dental hygiene Fig 2.7 Corneal arcus. 7 The praecordium Inspect: • Scars—midline sternotomy, lateral thoracotomy (mitral stenosis valvotomy). Palpate: • Apex beat (lowermost lateral pulsation)— usually 5th intercostal space in mid-clavicular line; measure position by counting intercostal spaces (sternal notch = 2nd intercostal space). Undisplaced/displaced? Character: impalpable (?dextrocardia/COPD), tapping (palpable S1), dou- ble impulse, sustained/strong. Count rate if pulse irregular (AF, p130). • 'Heaves’ and ‘thrills’—place the heel of the hand fl at on chest to left then right of sternum. Heave: sustained, thrusting usually felt at left sternal Fig 2.8 Praecordium/heart edge (= right ventricular enlargement). Thrill: sounds. palpable murmur felt as a vibration beneath your Reproduced from Thomas J, et al. hand. (eds). Oxford Handbook of Clinical Auscultate: (palpate carotid pulse simultaneously) Examination and Practical Skills • Apex (mitral area)—listen with bell and dia- (2014), with permission from Oxford phragm. Identify 1st and 2nd heart sounds: are University Press. they normal? Listen for added
