Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Practical Skills • Apex (mitral area)—listen with bell and dia- (2014), with permission from Oxford phragm. Identify 1st and 2nd heart sounds: are University Press. they normal? Listen for added sounds (p44) and murmurs (p46); with the diaphragm listen for a pansystolic murmur radiating to the axilla—mitral regurgitation (see fi g 2.8). • At apex with bell, ask the patient to ‘Roll over onto your left side, breathe out, and hold it there’ (a rumbling mid-diastolic murmur—mitral stenosis). • Lower left sternal edge (tricuspid area) and pulmonary area (left of manubrium in the 2nd intercostal space): if suspect right-sided mumur, listen with patient’s breath held in inspiration. • Right of manubrium in 2nd intercostal space (aortic area)—ejection systolic murmur radiating to the carotids—aortic stenosis. • Sit the patient up and listen at the lower left sternal edge with patient held in expiration (early diastolic murmur: aortic regurgitation?). 8 To complete the examination • Palpate for sacral and ankle oedema (fi g 2.9). • Auscultate the lung bases for inspiratory crackles. • Examine the abdomen for a pulsatile liver and aortic aneurysm. • Check peripheral pulses, observation chart for temperature and O 2, sats, dip urine, perform Fig 2.9 Pitting oedema, apply fundoscopy. fi rm pressure for a few seconds. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 3399 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 40 The cardiovascular system: examination 2 General inspection Ill or well? In pain? Dyspnoeic? Are they pale, cold, and clammy? Can you hear the click of a prosthetic valve? Inspect for scars: median sternotomy (CABG; valve replacement; congenital heart disease). Inspect for any pacemakers/ internal cardiac defi brillators (ICDS). Look around the bed for oxygen and GTN spray. Hands Finger clubbing occurs in congenital cyanotic heart disease and endocardi- tis. Splinter haemorrhages, Osler’s nodes (tender nodules, eg in fi nger pulps) and Janeway lesions (red macules on palms, fi g 3.38, p151) are signs of infective endocar- ditis. If found, examine the fundi for Roth’s spots (retinal infarcts, p560). Are there nail fold infarcts (vasculitis, p556) or nailbed capillary pulsation (Quincke’s sign in aortic regurgitation)? Is there arachnodactyly (Marfan’s) or polydactyly (ASD)? Are there tendon xanthomata (see BOX ‘Hyperlipidaemia’)? Pulse See p42. Feel for radio-femoral delay (coarctation of the aorta) and radio- radial delay (eg from aortic arch aneurysm). Blood pressure (see BOX ‘An unusual BP measurement’) Systolic BP is the pressure at which the pulse is fi rst heard as on cuff defl
