Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


(eg from aortic arch aneurysm). Blood pressure (see BOX ‘An unusual BP measurement’) Systolic BP is the pressure at which the pulse is fi rst heard as on cuff defl ation (Korotkoff sounds); the diastolic is when the heart sounds disappear or become muffl ed (eg in the young). The pulse pressure is the diff erence between systolic and diastolic pressures. It is narrow in aortic stenosis and hypovolaemia, and wide in aortic regurgitation, arteriosclerosis, and septic shock. Defi n- ing hypertension: see p138. Examine the fundi for hypertensive changes (p138). Shock may occur if systolic <90mmHg (p790). Postural hypotension is defi ned as a drop in systolic >20mmHg or diastolic >10mmHg on standing for 3–5 min (see BOX ‘Postural hypotension’). Carotid pulse (See p42.) Jugular venous pressure (See p43.) Face Is there corneal arcus (fi g 2.7, p39) or xanthelasma (fi g 2.29, p60, signifying dyslipidaemia, p690)? Is there a malar fl ush (mitral stenosis, low cardiac output)? Are there signs of Graves’ disease, eg bulging eyes (exophthalmos) or goitre—p218)? Is the face dysmorphic, eg Down’s syndrome, Marfan’s syndrome (p706)—or Turner’s, Noonan’s, or Williams syndromes (p149)? Praecordium Palpate the apex beat. Normal position: 5th intercostal space in the mid-clavicular line. Is it displaced laterally? Is it abnormal in nature: heaving (caused by outfl ow obstruction, eg aortic stenosis or systemic hypertension), thrust- ing (caused by volume overload, eg mitral or aortic incompetence), tapping (mitral stenosis, essentially a palpable 1st heart sound), diffuse (LV failure, dilated cardio- myopathy) or double impulse (H(O)CM, p152)? Is there dextrocardia? Feel for left parasternal heave (RV enlargement, eg in pulmonary stenosis, cor pulmonale, ASD) or thrills (transmitted murmurs). Auscultating the heart Also auscultate for bruits over the carotids and elsewhere, particularly if there is inequality between pulses or absence of a pulse. Causes: ath- erosclerosis (elderly), vasculitis (young, p556). Lungs Examine the bases for creps & pleural eff usions, indicative of cardiac failure. Oedema Examine the ankles, legs, sacrum, and torso for pitting oedema. (You may prefer to examine ankles while standing at the foot of the bed as it is a good early clue that there may be further pathology to be found.) Abdomen Hepatomegaly and ascites in right-sided heart failure; pulsatile hepato- megaly with tricuspid regurgitation; splenomegaly with infective endocarditis. Fundoscopy Roth spots (infective endocarditis). Urine dipstick Haematuria. Presenting your fi ndings 1 Signs of heart failure? 2 Clinical evidence of infective
