Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


megaly with tricuspid regurgitation; splenomegaly with infective endocarditis. Fundoscopy Roth spots (infective endocarditis). Urine dipstick Haematuria. Presenting your fi ndings 1 Signs of heart failure? 2 Clinical evidence of infective endocarditis? 3 Sinus/abnormal rhythm? 4 Heart sounds normal, abnormal, or additional? 5 Murmurs? __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 4400 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH An unusual BP measurement 41 Don’t interpret a BP value in isolation (p138). We cannot diagnose hypertension (or hypotension) on one BP reading. Take into account pain, the ‘white coat’ eff ect (BP higher in a medical setting), and equipment. Getting cuff size right is vital. Optimal cuff width is 40% of the arm circumference. If you suspect a BP read- ing to be anomalous, check the equipment and review the observation chart for previous readings and other vital signs. Consider taking a manual reading with a diff erent set yourself. Often a quiet chat will bring the BP down (yours and your patient’s: keep your ears open, and the patient may reveal some new tangential but vital fact that the offi cial history glossed over). Many things aff ect BP readings from background noise to how much you touch the patient. If BP, eg 150/90, check both arms. If the systolic diff erence is >20mmHg, consider peripheral vascular disease, and if the patient could have a thoracic aortic aneurysm or co arctation (rare). NB: right arm diastolic is normally 2.4–5mmHg higher than left. Postural hypotension This is an important cause of falls and faints in the elderly. It is defi ned as a drop in systolic BP >20mmHg or diastolic >10mmHg after standing for 3min vs lying. Causes: Hypo volaemia (early sign); drugs, eg nitrates, diuretics, antihyperten- sives, antipsychotics; Addison’s (p226); hypopituitarism (ACTH); autonomic neu- ropathy (p505, DM, multisystem atrophy, p494); after a marathon run (peripheral resistance is low for some hours); idiopathic. Treatment: • Lie down if feeling faint. • Stand slowly (with escape route: don’t move away from the chair too soon!). • Consider referral to a ‘falls clinic’, where special equipment is available for moni- toring patient under various tilts. • Manage autonomic neuropathy, p505. • Water and salt ingestion can help (eg 150mmol Na+/d), but Na+ has its problems. • Physical measures: leg crossing, squatting, elast ic compression stockings (check dorsalis pedis pulse is present), and careful exercise may help. • If post-prandial dizziness, eat little and often; carbohydrate and alcohol intake. • Head-up tilt
