Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


elast ic compression stockings (check dorsalis pedis pulse is present), and careful exercise may help. • If post-prandial dizziness, eat little and often; carbohydrate and alcohol intake. • Head-up tilt of the bed at night renin release, so fl uid loss and standing BP. • 1st-line drugs: fl udrocortisone (retains fl uid) 50mcg/d; go up to 300mcg/24h PO only if tolerated. Monitor weight; beware if CCF, renal impairment, or albumin as fl udrocortisone worsens oedema. • 2nd-line drugs: sympathomimetics, eg midodrine (not always available) or ephed- rine; pyridostigmine (eg if detrusor under-activity too). • If these fail, turn things on their head and ask: is this really supine hypertension? Hyperlipidaemia Xanthomata are localized deposits of fat under the skin, occurring over joints, tendons, hands, and feet. Xanthel asma refers to xanthoma on the eyelid (p691, fi g 14.13). Corneal arcus (fi g 2.7, p39) is a crescentic-shaped opacity at the periph- ery of the cornea. Common in those over 60yrs, can be normal, but may represent hyperlipidaemia, especially in those under this age. Top tips The hand can be used as a manometer to estimate JVP/CVP if you cannot see the neck properly (eg central line in situ). Hold the hand palm down below the level of the heart until the veins dilate (patient must be warm!), then lift slowly, keeping the arm horizontal. The veins should empty as the hand is raised. Empty veins below the level of the heart suggests a low CVP, if they remain full it suggests a normal/high CVP. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 4411 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 42 Pulses Assess the radial pulse to determine rate and rhythm. Character and volume are best assessed at the brachial or carotid arteries. A collapsing pulse may also be felt at the radial artery when the patient’s arm is elevated above their head. See fi g 2.10. Rate Is the pulse fast (100bpm, p126) or slow (60bpm, p124)? Rhythm An irregularly irregular pulse occurs in AF or multiple ectopics. A regularly irregular pulse occurs in 2° heart block and ventricular bigeminus. Character and volume • Bounding pulses are caused by CO2 retention, liver failure, and sepsis. • Small volume pulses occur in aortic stenosis, shock, and pericardial eff usion. • Collapsing (‘waterhammer’) pulses are caused by aortic incompetence, AV mal- formations, and a patent ductus arteriosus. • Anacrotic (slow-rising) pulses occur in aortic stenosis. • Bisferiens pulses occur in
