Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


• Collapsing (‘waterhammer’) pulses are caused by aortic incompetence, AV mal- formations, and a patent ductus arteriosus. • Anacrotic (slow-rising) pulses occur in aortic stenosis. • Bisferiens pulses occur in combined aortic stenosis and regurgitation. • Pulsus alternans (alternating strong and weak beats) suggests LVF, cardio- myopathy, or aortic stenosis. • Jerky pulses occur in H(O)CM. • Pulsus paradoxus (systolic pressure weakens in inspiration by >10mmHg) occurs in severe asthma, pericardial constriction, or cardiac tamponade. Peripheral pulses (See p36.) See p771 for arterial blood gas (ABG) sampling. Waterhammer pulse The waterhammer was a popular toy that consisted of a vacuum tube half-fi lled with water. On inversion, the whoosh of water produced an intriguing hammer- blow as it rushed from end to end. This is the alternative name for Corrigan’s collapsing pulse—ie one in which the upstroke is abrupt and steep, whose peak is reached early and with abnormal force—before a rapid downstroke (as blood whooshes back into the left ventricle through an incompetent aortic valve). Fig 2.10 Arterial pulse waveforms. Reproduced from Thomas J, et al. (eds). Oxford Handbook of Clinical Examina- tion and Practical Skills (2014), with permission from Oxford University Press. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 4422 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH The jugular venous pressure (JVP) 43 The internal jugular vein acts as a capricious manometer of right atrial pressure. Ob- serve the height and the waveform of the pulse. JVP observations are often diffi cult. so do not be downhearted if the skill seems to elude you. Examine necks, and the patterns you see may slowly Superficial start to make sense—see temporal vein fi g 2.11 for the local venous Posterior Maxillary vein anatomy. Concomitantly auricular vein Facial vein palpate the arterial pulse to Retromandibular help decipher patterns. vein The height juguE lx at re vrn eia nl T cah ry tr io laid ge Observe the patient at 45°, Anterior with their head turned juguI ln at re vrn eia nl jugular vein slightly to the left and neck relaxed. Good lighting and correct positioning are key. Look for the right internal Fig 2.11 The jugular venous system. jugular vein as it passes just medial to the clavicular head of the sterno cleidomastoid up behind the angle of the jaw to the earlobes. The JVP is assessed by measuring the vertical height from the manubriosternal angle (not the sternal notch) to the top of the pulse. Pressure at
