Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


the jaw to the earlobes. The JVP is assessed by measuring the vertical height from the manubriosternal angle (not the sternal notch) to the top of the pulse. Pressure at zero (at the sternal angle) is 5cm, so add the height of the JVP with 5cm to obtain the right heart fi lling pressure in cm of water. A pressure above 9cm (4cm above the sternal angle at 45°) is elevated. Is the pulse venous (and not arterial)? • Usually impalpable, and obliterated by fi nger pressure on the vessel. • Rises transiently with pressure on abdomen (abdominojugular refl ux)2 or on liver (hepatojug ular refl ux), and alters with posture and respiration (disappears when patient sits from lying fl at). • Usually has a double pulse for every arterial pulse. See fi g 2.12. Abnormalities of the JVP • Raised JVP with normal waveform: Fluid overload, right heart failure. • Fixed raised JVP with absent pulsation: SVC obstruction (p528). • Large a wave: Pulmonary hypertension, pulmonary stenosis. • Cannon a wave: When the right atrium contracts against a closed tricuspid valve, large ‘cannon’ a waves result. Causes—complete heart block, single chamber ven- tricular pacing, ventricular arrhythmias/ectopics. • Absent a wave: Atrial fi brillation. • Large v waves: Tricuspid regurgitation—look for earlobe movement. • Constrictive pericarditis: High plateau of JVP (which rises on inspiration—Kuss- maul’s sign) with deep x and y descents. • Absent JVP: When lying fl at, the jugular vein should be fi lled. If there is reduced circulatory volume (eg dehydration, haemorrhage) the JVP may be absent. Fig 2.12 The jugular venous pressure wave. The JVP drops as the X descent during ventricular systole because the right atrium is no longer contracting. This means that the pressure in the right atrium is dropping and this is refl ected by the JVP. After Clinical Examination, Macleod, Churchill and Aids to Undergraduate Medicine, J Burton, Churchill. 2 This sign was fi rst described by Pasteur in 1885 in the context of tricuspid incompetence. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 4433 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 44 The heart sounds Listen systematically: sounds then murmurs. While listening, palpate the carotid artery: S1 is synchronous with the upstroke. Heart sounds See fi g 2.13. The 1st and 2nd sounds are usually clear. Confi dent pro- nouncements about other sounds and soft murmurs may be diffi cult. Even senior colleagues disagree with one another about the more
