Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


and 2nd sounds are usually clear. Confi dent pro- nouncements about other sounds and soft murmurs may be diffi cult. Even senior colleagues disagree with one another about the more diffi cult sounds and murmurs. The 1st heart sound (S1) Represents closure of mitral (M1) and tricuspid (T1) valves. Splitting in inspiration may be heard and is normal. • Loud SIn mitral stenosis, because the narrowed valve orifi ce limits ventricular 1 fi lling, there is no gradual decrease in fl ow towards the end of diastole. The valves are, therefore, at their maximum excursion at the end of diastole, and so shut rap- idly leading to a loud S1 (the ‘tapping’ apex). S1 is also loud if diastolic fi lling time is shortened, eg if the PR interval is short, and in tachycardia. • Soft S 1 occurs if the diastolic fi lling time is prolonged, eg prolonged PR interval, or if the mitral valve leafl ets fail to close properly (ie mitral incompetence). The intensity of S1 is variable in AV block, AF, and nodal or ventricular tachycardia. The 2nd heart sound (S2) Represents aortic (A2) and pulmonary valve (P2) closure. The most important abnormality of A2 is softening in aortic stenosis. • A is said to be loud in tachycardia, hypertension, and transposition, but this is 2 probably not a useful clinical entity. • P is loud in pulmonary hypertension and soft in pulmonary stenosis. 2 • Splitting of S in inspiration is normal and is mainly due to the variation of right 2 heart venous return with respiration, delaying the pulmonary component. • Wide splitting occurs in right bundle branch block (BBB), pulmonary stenosis, deep inspiration, mitral regurgitation, and VSD. • Wide fi xed splitting occurs in atrial septal defect (ASD). • Reversed splitting (ie A2 following P2, with splitting increasing on expiration) occurs in left bundle branch block, aortic stenosis, PDA (patent ductus arterio- sus), and right ventricular pacing. • A single S2 occurs in Fallot’s tetralogy, severe aortic or pulmonary stenosis, pulmonary atresia, Eisenmenger’s syndrome (p156), large VSD, or hypertension. NB: splitting and P2 are heard best in the pulmonary area. Additional sounds 3rd heart sound (S3) may occur just after S2. It is low pitched and best heard with the bell of the stethoscope. S3 is pathological over the age of 30yrs. A loud S3 occurs in a dilated left ventricle with rapid
