Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


low pitched and best heard with the bell of the stethoscope. S3 is pathological over the age of 30yrs. A loud S3 occurs in a dilated left ventricle with rapid ventricular fi lling (mitral regurgitation, VSD) or poor LV function (post MI, dilated cardiomyopathy). In constrictive pericarditis or restrictive cardiomyopathy it occurs early and is more high pitched (‘pericardial knock’). 4th heart sound (S4) occurs just before S1. Always abnormal, it represents atrial contraction against a ventricle made stiff by any cause, eg aortic stenosis or hyper- tensive heart disease. Triple and gallop rhythms A 3rd or 4th heart sound occurring with a sinus tachycar- dia may give the impression of galloping hooves. An S3 gallop has the same rhythm as ‘Ken-tucky’, whereas an S4 gallop has the same rhythm as ‘Tenne-ssee’. When S3 and S4 occur in a tachycardia, eg with pulmonary embolism, they may summate and appear as a single sound, a summation gallop. An ejection systolic click is heard early in systole with bicuspid aortic valves, and if BP. The right heart equivalent lesions may also cause clicks. Mid-systolic clicks occur in mitral valve prolapse (p144). An opening snap precedes the mid-diastolic murmur of mitral (and tricuspid) steno- sis. It indicates a pliable (non-calcifi ed) valve. Prosthetic sounds are caused by non-biological valves, on opening and closing: rum- bling sounds ≈ ball and cage valves (eg Starr–Edwards); single clicks ≈ tilting disc valve (eg single disc: Bjork Shiley; bileafl et: St Jude—often quieter). Prosthetic mitral valve clicks occur in time with S1, aortic valve clicks in time with S2. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 4444 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 45 Fig 2.13 The cardiac cycle. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 4455 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 46 Cardiac murmurs Always consider other symptoms and signs before auscultation and think: ‘What do I expect to hear?’ But don’t let your expectations determine what you hear. Use the stethoscope correctly: remember that the bell is good for low-pitched sounds (eg mitral stenosis) and should be applied gently. The diaphragm fi lters out low pitches, making higher-pitched murmurs easier to detect (eg aortic regurgita- tion). NB: a bell applied tightly to the skin becomes a diaphragm. Consider any murmur in terms of character, timing, loudness, area where loudest, radiation, and accentuating manoeuvres. When in doubt, rely on echocardiography rather than disputed sounds. (But still enjoy trying to fi gure out the clinical conundrum!) Character and timing (See
