Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


loudest, radiation, and accentuating manoeuvres. When in doubt, rely on echocardiography rather than disputed sounds. (But still enjoy trying to fi gure out the clinical conundrum!) Character and timing (See fi g 2.14.) • An ejection-systolic murmur (ESM, crescendo–decrescendo) usually originates from the outfl ow tract and waxes and wanes with the intraventricular pressures. ESMS may be innocent and are common in children and high-output states (eg tachycardia, pregnancy). Organic causes include aortic stenosis and sclerosis, pul- monary stenosis, and H(O)CM. • A pansystolic murmur (PSM) is of uniform intensity and merges with S2. It is usu- ally organic and occurs in mitral or tricuspid regurgitation (S1 may also be soft in these), or a ventricular septal defect (p156). Mitral valve prolapse may produce a late systolic murmur ± midsystolic click. • Early diastolic murmurs (EDMs) are high pitched and easily missed: listen for the ‘absence of silence’ in early diastole. An EDM occurs in aortic and, though rare, pul- monary regurgitation. If the pulmonary regurgitation is secondary to pulmonary hypertension resulting from mitral stenosis, then the EDM is called a Graham Steell murmur. • Mid-diastolic murmurs (MDMs) are low pitched and rumbling. They occur in mitral stenosis (accentuated presystolically if heart still in sinus rhythm), rheumatic fever (Carey Coombs’ murmur: due to thickening of the mitral valve leafl ets), and aortic regurgitation (Austin Flint murmur: due to the fl uttering of the anterior mitral valve cusp caused by the regurgitant stream). Intensity All murmurs are graded on a scale of 1–6 (see table 2.4), though in practice diastolic murmurs, being less loud, are only graded 1–4. Intensity is a poor guide to the severity of a lesion—an ESM may be inaudible in severe aortic stenosis. Area where loudest Though an unreliable sign, mitral murmurs tend to be loudest over the apex, in contrast to the area of greatest intensity from lesions of the aortic (right 2nd intercostal space), pulmonary (left 2nd intercostal space), and tricuspid (lower left sternal edge) valves. Radiation The ESM of aortic stenosis classically radiates to the carotids, in contrast to the PSM of mitral regurgitation, which radiates to the axilla. Accentuating manoeuvres • Movements that bring the relevant part of the heart closer to the stethoscope ac- centuate murmurs (eg leaning forward for aortic regurgitation, left lateral position for mitral stenosis). • Expiration increases blood fl ow to the left side of the heart and
