Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


stethoscope ac- centuate murmurs (eg leaning forward for aortic regurgitation, left lateral position for mitral stenosis). • Expiration increases blood fl ow to the left side of the heart and therefore accentu- ates left-sided murmurs. Inspiration has the opposite eff ect. • Valsalva manoeuvre (forced expiration against a closed glottis) decreases sys- temic venous return, accentuating mitral valve prolapse and H(O)CM, but softening mitral regurgitation and aortic stenosis. Squatting has exactly the opposite eff ect. Exercise accentuates the murmur of mitral stenosis. Non-valvular murmurs A pericardial friction rub may be heard in pericarditis. It is a superfi cial scratching sound, not confi ned to systole or diastole. Continuous murmurs are present throughout the cardiac cycle and may occur with a patent ductus arteriosus, arteriovenous fi stula, or ruptured sinus of Valsalva. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 4466 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 47 Fig 2.14 Typical waveforms of common heart murmurs. Grading intensity of heart murmurs The following grading is commonly used for murmurs—systolic murmurs from 1 to 6 and diastolic murmurs from 1 to 4, never being clinically >4/6. Table 2.4 Grading of heart murmurs. Grade Description 1/6 Very soft, only heard after listening for a while 2/6 Soft, but detectable immediately 3/6 Clearly audible, but no thrill palpable 4/6 Clearly audible, palpable thrill 5/6 Audible with stethoscope only partially touching chest 6/6 Can be heard without placing stethoscope on chest Prosthetic valve murmurs Prosthetic valves: Created either from synthetic material (mechanical prosthesis) or from biological tissue (bioprosthesis). The choice of prosthesis is determined by the anticipated longevity of the patient and the patient’s ability to tolerate antico- agulation. Three mechanical valve designs exist: the caged ball valve, the tilting disc (single leafl et) valve, and the bileafl et valve. Tissue valves are made from porcine valves or bovine pericardium. Prosthetic aortic valves: All types produce a degree of outfl ow obstruction and thus have an ESM. The intensity of this murmur increases as the valve fails. Ball and cage valves (eg Starr–Edwards) and tissue valves do close completely in diastole and so any diastolic murmur implies valve failure. Prosthetic mitral valves: Ball and cage valves project into the left ventricle and can cause a low-intensity ESM as they interfere with the ejected stream. Tissue valves and bileafl et valves can have a low-intensity diastolic murmur. Consider any systolic murmur of loud intensity to be a sign of regurgitation and  failure. Eponymous
