Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


airways. Obstruction may be due to something within the lumen (eg foreign body, tumour, bilateral vocal cord palsy), within the wall (eg oedema from anaphylaxis, laryngospasm, tumour, croup, acute epiglottitis, amyloidosis), or extrinsic (eg goitre, oesophagus, lymph- adenopathy, post-op stridor, after neck surgery). It’s an emerge ncy (p772) if gas exchange is compromised. NB: wheeze is an expiratory sound. Characteristic coughs Coughing is relatively non-specifi c, resulting from irritation anywhere from the pharynx to the lungs. The character of a cough may, however, give clues as to the underlying cause: • Loud, brassy coughing suggests pressure on the trachea, eg by a tumour. • Hollow, ‘bovine’ coughing is associated with recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy. • Barking coughs occur in croup. • Chronic cough Think of pertussis, TB, foreign body, asthma (eg nocturnal). • Dry, chronic coughing may occur following acid irritation of the lungs in oe- sophageal refl ux, and as a side-eff ect of ACE inhibitors. Do not ignore a change in character of a chronic cough; it may signify a new problem, eg infection, malignancy. 3 Atopy implies predisposition to, or concurrence of, asthma, hay fever and eczema with production of specifi c IgE on exposure to common allergens (eg house dust mite, grass, cats). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 4488 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH Haemoptysis 49 Blood is coughed up, eg frothy, alkaline, and bright red, often in a context of known chest disease (vomited blood is acidic and dark). Table 2.6 Respiratory causes of haemoptysis. 1 Infective TB; bronchiectasis; bronchitis; pneumonia; lung abscess; COPD; fungi (eg aspergillosis); viruses (from pneumonitis, cryo globulinaemia, eg with hepatitis viruses, HIV-associ- ated pneumocystosis, or MAI, p400). Helminths: paragon- imiasis; hydatid (p435); schistosomiasis. 2 Neoplastic Primary or secondary. 3 Vascular Lung infarction (PE); vasculitis (ANCA-associated; RA; SLE); hereditary haemorrhagic telangiectasia; AV malforma- tion; capillaritis. 4 Parenchymal Diff use interstitial fi brosis; sarcoidosis; haemoside rosis; Goodpasture’s syndrome; cystic fi brosis. 5 Pulmonary Idiopathic, thromboembolic, congenital cyanotic heart hypertension disease (p156), pulmonary fi brosis, bronchiectasis. 6 Coagulopathies Any—eg thrombocytopenia, p344; DIC; warfarin excess. 7 Trauma/foreign body Eg post-intubation, or an eroding implanted defi brillator. 8 Pseudo-haemoptysis Munchausen’s (p706); aspirated haematemesis; red pig ment (prodigiosin) from Serratia marcescens (Gram-negative bacteria) in sputum.7 Rare causes refuse to be classifi ed neatly: vascular causes may have infective origins, eg hydatid cyst may count as a foreign body, and infection, and vascular if it fi stulates with the aorta; ditto
