Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


patient to ‘take steady breaths in and out through your mouth’ and listen with diaphragm from apices to bases, comparing right and left (see table 2.8, p52). • Vocal resonance: Repeat auscultation, asking pa- tient to repeat ‘99’ each time they feel the stetho- scope. If marked resonance heard, repeat with asking patient to whisper ‘99’; if clearly heard this Fig 2.19 Placement of the hands for testing chest expan- is termed ‘whispering pectoriloquy’ and is a sensi- sion: anchor with the fi ngers tive sign for consolidation. Outside of exams, the and leave the thumbs free- choice of vocal resonance or tactile vocal fremitus fl oating. is a personal preference. Many clinicians prefer vo- Reproduced from Thomas J, et cal resonance as it provides more information than al., Oxford Handbook of Clinical tactile vocal fremitus. Examination and Practical Skills (2014) with permission from Oxford University Press. 7 Back of chest • Expansion • Tactile vocal fremitus • Percussion • Auscultation • Vocal resonance 8 To complete the examination • Palpate for sacral and ankle oedema (fi g 2.20) • Check peripheral pulses, observation chart for temperature and O sats 2 • Examine the sputum pot and check PEFR Fig 2.20 Ankle oedema. Top tips • Whispering pectoriloquy is a classic and specifi c sign of consolidation. • If you don’t adequately expose the chest you may miss small scars, eg from video thoracoscopy. • If you see Horner’s syndrome, check for wasting of the small muscles of the hand; see p702 and p708. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 5511 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 52 The respiratory system: examination 2 General inspection ‘Comfortable at rest’ or unwell? Cachectic? Respiratory dis- tress? (if high negative intrathoracic pressures are needed to generate air entry). Stridor? Respiratory rate, breathing pattern (see BOX ‘Breathing patterns’). Look for chest wall and spine deformities (see p55). Inspect for scars of past surgery, chest drains, or radiotherapy (skin thickening, tattoos for radiotherapy). Chest wall move- ment: symmetrical? (if not, pathology on restricted side). Paradoxical respiration? (abdomen sucked in with inspiration; seen in diaphragmatic paralysis, see p502). Hands Clubbing, peripheral cyanosis, tar stains, fi ne tremor (-agonist use), wast- ing of in trinsic muscles (T1 lesions, eg Pancoast’s tumour, p708). Tender wrists (hy- pertrophic pulmonary osteo arthropathy—cancer). Aster ixis (CO2 retention). Pulse: paradoxical (respiratory distress), bounding (CO2 retention). Face Ptosis and constricted pupil (Horner’s syndrome, eg Pancoast’s tumour, p708)? Bluish tongue
