Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


pain: All causes of left iliac fossa pain plus appendicitis and Crohn’s ileitis, but usually excluding diverticulitis. • Pelvic: Urological: UTI, retention, stones. Gynae: menstruation, pregnancy, endome- triosis (OHCS p288), salpingitis, endometritis (OHCS p274), ovarian cyst torsion. • Generalized: Gastroenteritis, irritable bowel syndrome, peritonitis, constipation. • Central: Mesenteric ischaemia, abdominal aneurysm, pancreatitis. Remember referred pain: Myocardial infarct  epigastrium; pleural pathology. Abdominal distension (masses and the ‘famous fi ve’ Fs) Enid Blyton’s Famous Five characters can generally solve any crime or diag nos tic problem using 1950s methodologies steeped in endless school holid ays, copious confection-laden mid night feasts, and lashings of homemade ginger beer. Let’s give them the problem of abdominal distension. The sweets and drinks used by the Famous Five actually contribute to the distension itself: fat, fluid, faeces, flatus, and fetus. If you think it far-fetched to implicate ginger beer in the genesis of fetuses, note that because it was homemade, like the fun, there was no limit to its intoxicating powers in those long-gone vintage summers. The point is to think to ask ‘When was your last period?’ whenever confronted by a distended abdomen. Flatus will be resonant on percussion. Fluid will be dull, and can be from ascites (eg from malignancy or cirrhosis: look for shifting dullness), distended bladder (cannot get below it) or an aortic aneurysm (expansile). Masses can be pelvic (think of uter- ine fi broids or ovarian pathology) or tumours from colon, stomach, pancreas, liver, or kidney. Also see causes of ascites with portal hypertension (p604), hepatomegaly (p61), splenomegaly, and other abdominal masses (p604). SSRIS and upper GI bleeding risk SSRIs have been associated with an increased risk of bleeding.9 SSRIs are thought to increase gastric acidity and serotonin is thought to play a role in platelet ag- gregation. This may lead to an increased risk of ulcers and bleeding, particularly when co-prescribed with anticoagulants and drugs aff ecting intestinal lining (eg NSAIDS). NICE10 recommends cautious concomitant use of SSRIs with anticoagu- lants or NSAIDS and recommends gastroprotection (eg PPI) for older patients tak- ing NSAIDs or aspirin. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 5577 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 58 Gastrointestinal symptoms Faecal incontinence This is common in the elderly. Do your best to help, and get social services involved if concerned. Continence depends on many factors—mental function, stool (volume and consistency), anatomy (sphincter function, rectal distensibility, anorectal sensa- tion and refl exes). Defects in any
