Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


get social services involved if concerned. Continence depends on many factors—mental function, stool (volume and consistency), anatomy (sphincter function, rectal distensibility, anorectal sensa- tion and refl exes). Defects in any area can cause loss of faecal continence. Causes: Often multifactorial. Is it passive faecal soiling or urgency-related stool loss? Consider the following: • Sphincter dysfunction: • Vaginal delivery is the commonest cause due to sphincter tears or pudendal nerve damage. • Surgical trauma, eg following procedures for fi stulas, haemorrhoids, fi ssures. • Impaired sensation—diabetes, MS, dementia, any spinal cord lesions (consider cord compression if acute faecal incontinence). • Faecal impaction—overfl ow diarrhoea, extremely common, especially in the el- derly, and very easily treated. • Idiopathic—although there is often no clear cause found, especially in elderly women, this is usually multifactorial, including a combination of poor sphincter tone and pudendal damage leading to poor sensation. Assessment: Do PR (overfl ow incontinence? poor tone?) and assess neurological function of legs, particularly checking sensation. Refer to a specialist (esp. if rectal prolapse, anal sphincter injury, lumbar disc disease, or alarm symptoms for colon ca exist). Consider anorectal manometry, pelvic ultra- sound or MRI, and pudendal nerve testing may be needed. Treat according to cause and to promote dignity: Never let your own embarrassment stop you from off ering help. Knowledge and behaviour are key factors: • Ensure toilet is in easy reach. Plan trips in the knowledge of toilet locations. • Obey call-to-stool impulses (esp. after meal, ie the gastro-colic refl ex). • Ensure access to latest continence aids and advice on use, refer to continence nurse specialist for assessment. • Pelvic fl oor rehabilitation: eg can help faecal incontinence, squeeze pressure, and maximal tolerated volume. • Loperamide 2–4mg 45min before social engagements may prevent accidents out- side home. An anal cotton plug may help isolated internal sphincter weakness. Skin care. Support agencies. If all sensible measures fail, try a brake-and-accelerator approach: enemas to empty the rectum (twice weekly) and codeine phosphate, eg 15mg/12h, on non-enema days to constipate. It’s not a cure, but makes the incontinence manageable. Flatulence Normally, 400–1300mL of gas is expelled PR in 8–20 discrete (or indiscrete) episodes per day. If this, with any eructation (belching) or distension, seems excessive to the patient, they may complain of fl atulence. Eructation occurs in hiatus hernia—but most patients with ‘fl atulence’ have no GI disease. Air swal lowing (aerophagy) is
