Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


seems excessive to the patient, they may complain of fl atulence. Eructation occurs in hiatus hernia—but most patients with ‘fl atulence’ have no GI disease. Air swal lowing (aerophagy) is the main cause of fl atus; here N2 is the chief gas. If fl atus is mostly methane, H2 and CO2, then fermentation by bowel bacteria is the cause, and reducing carbohydrate intake (eg less lactose and wheat) may help. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 5588 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH Tenesmus 59 This is a sensation in the rectum of incomplete emptying after defecati on. It’s com- mon in irritable bowel syndrome (p266), but can be caused by tumours. Regurgitation Gastric and oesophageal contents are regurgitated eff ortlessly into the mouth— without contraction of abdominal muscles and diaphragm (so distinguishing it from true vomiting). It may be worse on lying fl at, and can cause cough and nocturnal asthma. Regurgitation is rarely preceded by nausea, and when due to gastro-oe- sophageal refl ux, it is often associated with heartburn. An oesophageal pouch may cause regurgitation. Very high GI obstructions (eg gastric volvulus, p611) cause non- productive retching rather than true regurgitation. Steatorrhoea These are pale stools that are diffi cult to fl ush, and are caused by malabsorption of fat in the small intestine and hence greater fat content in the stool. Causes: Ileal disease (eg Crohn’s or ileal resection), pancreatic disease, and obstruc- tive jaundice (due to excretion of bile salts from the gallbladder). Dyspepsia Dyspepsia and indigestion (p252) are broad terms. Dyspepsia is defi ned as one or more of post-prandial fullness, early satiety (unable to fi nish meal), and/or epigastric or retrosternal pain or burning. ‘Indigestion’ reported by the patient can refer to dyspepsia, bloating, nausea, and vomiting. Try to fi nd out exactly what your pa- tient means and when these symptoms occur in relation to meals, eg the classic symptoms of peptic ulcers occur 2–5 hours after a meal and on an empty stomach. Look for alarm symptoms (see p248); these have high negative predictive value. If all patients with dyspepsia undergo endoscopy, <33% have clinically signifi cant fi ndings.11 Myocardial infaction may present as ‘indigestion’. Halitosis Halitosis (fetor oris, oral malodour) results from gingivitis (rarely severe enough to cause Vincent’s angina, p712), metabolic activity of bacteria in plaque, or sulfi de-yield- ing food putrefaction, eg in gingival pockets and tonsillar crypts. Patients can often be anxious and
