Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


to cause Vincent’s angina, p712), metabolic activity of bacteria in plaque, or sulfi de-yield- ing food putrefaction, eg in gingival pockets and tonsillar crypts. Patients can often be anxious and convinced of halitosis when it is not present (and vice versa!). Contributory factors: Smoking, drugs (disulfi ram; isosorbide), lung disease, hangovers. : Try to eliminate anaerobes: • Good dental hygiene, dental fl oss, tongue scraping. • 0.2% aqueous chlorhexidine gluconate. The very common halitosis arising from the tongue’s dorsum is secondary to over- populated volatile sulfur compound-producing bacteria. Locally retained bacteria metabolize sulfur-containing amino acids to yield volatile ( smelly) hydrogen sulfi de and methylmercaptane, which perpetuate periodontal disease. At night and be- tween meals, conditions are optimal for odour production—so eating regularly may help. Treat by mechanical cleansing/scraping using tongue brushes or scrapes plus mouthwashes. Oral care products containing metal ions, especially Zn, inhibit odour formation, it is thought, because of affi nity of the metal ion to sulfur. It is possible to measure the level of volatile sulfur-containing compounds in the air in the mouth directly by means of a portable sulfi de monitor. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 5599 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 60 Examination of the abdomen Begin by introducing yourself, obtaining consent to examine, and position the patient appropriately; lie the patient down as fl at as possible, ideally exposing from ‘nipples to knees’. In practice, keep the groin covered and examine separately for hernias, etc. 1 General inspection • Assess general state (ill/well/cachexic) • Clues (vomit bowl, stoma bags, cath- eter, urine colour) • Colour (pale, jaundiced, uraemic) • Body mass index? • Scars on the abdomen? Stomas (fi g 2.25)? Fig 2.25 Stoma. Ask the patient to lift their head off the Reproduced from MacKay G, et al. (eds). Oxford Specialist Handbook of Colorectal bed, or cough, looking for bulges, disten- Surgery (2010), with permission from Oxford sion or pain. University Press. 2 Hands • Inspect: Clubbing, koilonychia, leuconychia, Muehrcke’s lines, palmar erythema, Dupuytren’s contracture (fi g 2.26), pigmentation of the palmer creases • Asterixis: (See p50) Fig 2.26 Dupuytren’s contracture. 3 Arms • Check pulse and blood pressure • Look in the distribution of the SVC (arms, upper chest, upper back) for spider naevi (fi g 2.27) • Check for track marks, bruising, pigmentation, scratch marks, arterio- venous fi stulae (see p303 for signs seen Fig 2.27 Spider naevi. in patients with chronic kidney disease)
