Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


g 2.27) • Check for track marks, bruising, pigmentation, scratch marks, arterio- venous fi stulae (see p303 for signs seen Fig 2.27 Spider naevi. in patients with chronic kidney disease) 4 Neck • Examine cervical and supraclavicular lymph nodes (see fi g 2.28) • JVP raised in fl uid overload (renal dys- function, liver dysfunction), tricuspid regurgitation (may cause pulsatile he- patomegaly) • Scars from tunnelled haemodialysis lines (see p303) or other central venous access Fig 2.28 Cervical and supraclavicular nodes. Reproduced from Thomas J, et al. (eds). Oxford Handbook of Clinical Examination and Practi- cal Skills (2014), with permission from Oxford 5 Face University Press. • Skin and eyes: Jaundice, conjunc- tival pallor, Kayser–Fleischer rings, xanthelasma (see fi g 2.29), sunken eyes (dehydration) • Mouth: Angular stomatitis, pigmenta- Fig 2.29 Xanthelasma. tion, telangiectasia, ulcers, glossitis __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 6600 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 6 Abdomen 61 Inspection: • Scars—previous surgery, transplant, stoma • Visible masses, hernias, or pulsation of AAA • Visible veins suggesting portal hypertension • Gynaecomastia, hair loss, acanthosis nigricans Palpation: Squat by the bed so that the patient’s abdomen is at your eye level. Ask if there is any pain and examine this part last. Watch the patient’s face for signs of discomfort. Palpate the entire abdomen (see p565): • Light palpation—if this elicits pain, check for re- bound tenderness. Any involuntary tension in mus- cles (‘guarding’)? See p606. • Deep palpation—to detect masses. • Liver—using the radial border of the index fi nger aligned with the costal margin start palpation from the RIF. Press down and ask patient to take a deep breath. Continue upwards towards the costal mar- gin until you feel the liver edge. • Spleen—start palpation in RIF and work towards the left costal margin asking the patient to take a deep breath in and feeling for edge of the spleen. • Kidneys—for each kidney: place one hand behind patient’s loin, press down on the abdomen with your other hand and ‘ballot’ the kidney up with your lower hand against your upper hand (fi g 2.30). Un- less slim or pathology present, may not be palpable. • Aorta—palpate midline above umbilicus, is it ex- pansile? (fi g 2.49, p79). Percussion: • Liver—percuss to map upper & lower border of liver. • Spleen—percuss from border of spleen as palpat- ed, around to mid-axillary line. Fig 2.30 Ballottement of the • Bladder—if enlarged, suprapubic region
