Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


map upper & lower border of liver. • Spleen—percuss from border of spleen as palpat- ed, around to mid-axillary line. Fig 2.30 Ballottement of the • Bladder—if enlarged, suprapubic region will be dull. kidneys. • Ascites—shifting dullness: percuss centrally to lat- Reproduced from Thomas J, et al. (eds). Oxford Handbook of Clini- erally until dull, keep your fi nger at the dull spot and cal Examination and Practical ask patient to lean onto opposite side. If the dull- Skills (2007), with permission from ness was fl uid, this will now have moved by gravity Oxford University Press. and the previously dull area will be resonant. Auscultation: • Bowel sounds—listen just below the umbilicus. • Bruits—listen over aorta and renal arteries (either side of midline above umbilicus). 7 To complete the examination • Palpate for ankle oedema, examine the hernial orifi ces, external genitalia, and perform a rectal examination. Check the observation chart and dipstick urine. Top tips • If you think there is a spleen tip, roll the patient onto their right side and feel again. This tips the spleen forward and allows you to percuss around to the back. • Check the back for spider naevi, even if the chest appears clear (look for nephrec- tomy scars as you do this). • Light palpation really should be light, to check for tenderness and very large masses, watching the patient’s face throughout. • If you suspect voluntary guarding, use the diaphragm of your stethoscope to as- sist with palpation and distract the patient who will think you are auscultating! __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 6611 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 62 The gastrointestinal system: examination Inspection Does your patient appear comfortable or in distress? Look for abnormal contours/ distension. Tattoos? Cushingoid appearance may suggest steroid use post-trans- plant or IBD. Inspect (and smell) for signs of chronic liver disease: • Hepatic fetor on breath (p274). • Gynaecomastia. • Clubbing (rare). • Purpura (purple-stained skin, p344). • Scratch marks. • Muscle wasting. • Spider naevi (fi g 2.27, p60). • Palmar erythema. • Jaundice. • Asterixis. Look for signs of malignancy (cachexia, masses), anaemia, jaundice, Virchow’s node. From the end of the bed inspect the abdomen for: • Visible pulsation (aneurysm, p654). • Peristalsis. • Scars. • Masses. • Striae (stretch marks, eg pregnancy). • Distension. • Genitalia. • Herniae. If abdominal wall veins look dilated, assess direction of fl ow. In inferior vena caval
