Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Scars. • Masses. • Striae (stretch marks, eg pregnancy). • Distension. • Genitalia. • Herniae. If abdominal wall veins look dilated, assess direction of fl ow. In inferior vena caval (IVC) obstruction, below the umbilicus blood fl ows up; in portal hypertension (caput medusae), fl ow radiates out from the umbilicus. The cough test: While looking at the face, ask the patient to cough. If this causes abdominal pain, fl inching, or a protective movement of hands towards the abdomen, suspect peritonitis. Hands Clubbing, leuconychia (whitening of the nails due to hypoalbuminaemia), koilo- nychia (‘spooning’ of the nails due to iron, B12, or folate defi ciency), Muehrcke’s lines (transverse white lines due to hypoalbuminaemia), blue lunulae (bluish discoloura- tion seen in Wilson’s disease). Palmar erythema (chronic liver disease, pregnancy), Dupuytren’s contracture (thickening and fi brous contraction of palmar fascia (see fi g 2.26, p60; alcoholic liver disease)). Hepatic fl ap/asterixis (hepatic encephalopa- thy, uraemia from renal disease), check pulse and respiratory rate (infection/sepsis?), palpate for AV fi stulae in the forearm (haemodialysis access in renal failure). Face Assess for jaundice, anaemia, xanthelasma (PBC, chronic obstruction), Kayser–Fleis- cher rings (green-yellow ring at corneal margin seen in Wilson’s disease). Inspect mouth for angular stomatitis (thiamine, B12, iron defi ciency), pigmentation (Peutz– Jeghers syndrome, p709, fi g 15.14), telangiectasia (Osler–Weber–Rendu syndrome/ hereditary haemorrhagic telangiectasia, p709, fi g 15.12), ulcers (IBD), glossitis (iron, B12, or folate defi ciency). Cervical lymph nodes Palpate for enlarged left supraclavicular lymph node (Virchow’s node/Troisier’s sign) (gastric carcinoma?). Abdomen Inspect: Look around to the fl anks for nephrectomy scars. Palpate: Note any masses, tenderness, guarding (involuntary tensing of abdominal muscles—pain or fear of it), or rebound tenderness (greater pain on removing hand than on gently depressing abdomen—peritoneal infl ammation); Rovsing’s sign (ap- pendicitis, p608); Murphy’s sign (cholecystitis, p634). Palpating the liver: Assess size (see BOX ‘Causes of hepatomegaly’), regularity, smoothness, and tenderness. Pulsa- tile (tricuspid regurgitation)? The scratch test is another way to fi nd the lower liver edge (if it is below the costal margin): start with diaphragm of stethoscope at right costal margin. Gently scratch the abdominal wall, starting in the right lower quad- rant, working towards the liver edge. A sharp increase in transm ission of the scratch is heard when the border of the liver is reached. Palpating the spleen: If suspect splenomegaly but cannot detect it, assess patient in the right lateral position with
