Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


the scratch is heard when the border of the liver is reached. Palpating the spleen: If suspect splenomegaly but cannot detect it, assess patient in the right lateral position with your left hand pulling forwards from behind the rib cage. Palpating the kidneys: See fi g 2.30, p61. May be non palpable unless slim. Enlarged? Nodular? Palpating the aorta: Normally palpable transmitted pulsation in thin individuals. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 6622 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH Percussion 63 Confi rm the lower border and defi ne the upper border of the liver and spleen (dull in the mid-axillary line in the 10th intercostal space). Percuss all regions of abdomen. If this induces pain, there may be peritoneal infl ammation below (eg an infl amed ap- pendix). Some experts percuss fi rst, before palpation, because even anxious patients do not expect this to hurt—so, if it does hurt, this is a very valuable sign. Percuss for the shifting dullness of ascites (p61 & p604) but ultrasound is a more reliable way of detecting ascites. Auscultation Bowel sounds: absence implies ileus; they are enhanced and tinkl ing in bowel ob- struction. Listen for bruits in the aorta, renal and femoral arteries. Further examination Check for hernias (p612), perform a PR examination see BOX ‘Examination of the rectum and anus’. Examination of the rectum and anus It is necessary to have a chaperone present for the examination. Explain what you are about to do. Make sure curtains are pulled. Have the patient lie on their left side, with knees brought up towards the chest. Use gloves and lubricant. Part the buttocks and inspect the anus: •A gaping anus suggests a neuropathy or megarectum. •Symmetry (a tender unilateral bulge suggests an abscess). •Pro- lapsed piles. •A subanodermal clot may peep out. •Prolapsed rectum (descent of >3cm when asked to strain, as if to pass a motion). •Anodermatitis (from frequent soiling). The anocutaneous refl ex tests sensory and motor innervation—on lightly stroking the anal skin, does the external sphincter briefl y contract? Press your index fi nger against the side of the anus. Ask the patient to breathe deeply and insert your fi nger slowly. Feel for masses (haemorrhoids are not palpable) or impacted stool. Twist your arm so that the pad of your fi nger is feeling anteriorly. Feel for the cervix or prostate. Note consistency, size, and symmetry of the prostate. If there is faecal incontinence
