Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


so that the pad of your fi nger is feeling anteriorly. Feel for the cervix or prostate. Note consistency, size, and symmetry of the prostate. If there is faecal incontinence or concern about the spinal cord, ask the patient to squeeze your fi nger and note the tone. This is best done with your fi nger pad facing posteriorly. Note stool or blood on the glove and test for occult blood. Wipe the anus. Consider proctoscopy (for the anus) or sigmoidoscopy (which mainly inspects the rectum). Causes of hepatomegaly (For hepatosplenomegaly, see p604.) Malignancy: Metastatic or primary (usually craggy, irregular edge). Hepatic congestion: Right heart failure—may be pulsatile in tricuspid incompe- tence, hepatic vein thrombosis (Budd–Chiari syndrome, p696). Anatomical: Riedel’s lobe (normal variant). Infection: Infectious mononucleosis (glandular fever), hepatitis viruses, malaria, schistosomiasis, amoebic abscess, hydatid cyst. Haematological: Leukaemia, lymphoma, myeloproliferative disorders (eg my- elofi brosis), sickle-cell disease, haemolytic anaemias. Others: Fatty liver, porphyria, amyloidosis, glycogen storage disorders. Splenomegaly • Abnormally large spleen. Causes: See p604. If massive, think of: chronic myeloid leukaemia, myelofi brosis, malaria (or leishmaniasis). Features of the spleen diff erentiating it from an enlarged kidney • Cannot get above it (ribs overlie the upper border of the spleen). • Dull to percussion (kidney is usually resonant because of overlying bowel). • Moves towards RIF with inspiration (kidney tends to move downwards). • May have palpable notch on its medial side. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 6633 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 64 The neurological system: history History This should be taken from the patient and if possible from a close friend or relative as well for corroboration/discrepancies. The patient’s memory, perception, or speech may be aff ected by the disorder, making the history diffi cult to obtain. Note the progression of the symptoms and signs: gradual deterioration (eg tumour) vs intermittent exacerbations (eg multiple sclerosis) vs rapid onset (eg stroke). Ask about age, occupation, and ethnic origin. Right- or left-hand dominant? Presenting symptoms • Headache: (p456 & p780.) Diff erent to usual headaches? Acute/chronic? Speed of onset? Single/recurrent? Unilateral/bilateral? Associated symptoms (eg aura with migraine, p458)? Any meningism (p822)? Worse on waking (ICP)? Decreased conscious level? Take a ‘worst-ever’ headache very seriously. (See p749.) • Muscle weakness: (p466.) Speed of onset? Muscle groups aff ected? Sensory loss? Any sphincter disturbance? Loss of balance? Associated spinal/root pain? • Visual disturbance: (OHCS p410.) eg blurring, double vision (diplopia), photophobia, visual loss. Speed of
