Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Propranolol (40–80mg/8–12h PO) can help, but not in all patients. 3 Intention tremor—worst on movement, seen in cerebellar disease, with past- pointing and dysdiadochokinesis (see p499). No eff ective drug has been found. Facial pain CNS causes: Migraine, trigeminal, or glossopharyngeal neuralgia (p457) or from any other pain-sensitive structure in the head or neck. Post-herpetic neuralgia: nasty burning-and-stabbing pain involves dermatomal areas aff ected by shingles (p404); it may aff ect cranial nerves V and VII in the face. It all too often becomes chronic and intractable (skin aff ected is exquisitely sensitive). Treatment is hard. Always give strong psychological support. Transcutaneous nerve stimulation, capsaicin oint- ment, and infi ltrating local anaesthetic are tried. Neuropathic pain agents, such as amitriptyline, eg 10–25mg/24h at night, or gabapentin (p504) may help. NB: famciclo- vir or valaciclovir given in acute shingles may  duration of neuralgia.14 Vascular and non-neurological causes: • Neck—cervical disc pathology. • Bone/sinuses—sinusitis; neoplasia. • Eye—glaucoma; iritis; orbital cellulitis; eye strain; AVM. • Temporomandibular joint—arthritis or idiopathic dysfunction (common). • Teeth/gums—caries; broken teeth; abscess; malocclusion. • Ear—otitis media; otitis externa. • Vascular/vasculitis—arteriovenous fi stula; aneurysm; or AVM at the cerebellopon- tine angle; giant cell arteritis; SLE. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 6655 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 66 Neurological examination of the upper limbs The neurological system is usually the most daunting examination, so learn at the bedside from a senior colleague, preferably a neurologist. Keep practising. Be aware that books present ideal situations: often one or more signs are equivocal or even contrary to expectation; consider signs in the context of the history and try re-ex- amining the patient, as signs may evolve over time. The only essential point is to distinguish whether weakness is upper (UMN) or lower (LMN) motor neuron (p446). Position the patient comfortably, sitting up at 45° and with arms exposed. The order of examination should be Inspection, Tone, Power, Refl exes, Coordination, Sensation (fi g 2.31). 1 General inspection Abnormal posturing, asymmetry, abnormal move- ments (fasciculation/tremor/dystonia/athetosis), muscle wasting (especially small muscles of the hand)—symmetrical/asymmetrical? Local/general? 2 Tone Ask patient to ‘relax/go fl oppy like a rag-doll’. Ask if patient has any pain in hands/arm/shoulder before passively fl exing and extending limb while also pro- nating and supinating the forearm. Any spasticity or rigidity? 3 Power Direct patient to adopt each position and follow commands while you as the examiner stabilize the joint above and resist movements as appropriate
