Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


forearm. Any spasticity or rigidity? 3 Power Direct patient to adopt each position and follow commands while you as the examiner stabilize the joint above and resist movements as appropriate to grade power (see BOX ‘Muscle weakness grading’ on p446). Test each muscle group bilaterally before moving on to the next position. See p452–3 for myotomes. • ‘Shrug your shoulders and don’t let me push down; push your arms out to the side against me; try to pull them back in.’ • ‘Hold your arms up like this and pull me towards you, now push me away.’ • ‘Hold your hand out fl at, don’t let me push it down; now don’t let me push it up.’ • Off er the patient two (crossed) fi ngers of yours and ask them to ‘squeeze my fi ngers.’ • Ask patient to ‘spread your fi n gers and stop me pushing them back together’, then hand the pa- tient a piece of paper to grip between two fi ngers. You as the examiner should grip the paper with your corresponding fi ngers while asking patient to ‘grip the paper and don’t let me pull it away.’ __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 6666 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 4 Refl exes 67 For each refl ex, test right, then left and com- pare. If absent, attempt to elicit with ‘rein- forcement’ by asking patient to clench their teeth on a count of three, at which time you strike (Jendrassik manoeuvre). Are refl exes absent/present (with reinforcement)/nor- mal/brisk/exaggerated? •Biceps (C5,6) •Tri- ceps (C7) •Supinator (C6). 5 Coordination Holding your fi nger in front of the patient instruct ‘touch my fi nger then your nose…as fast as you can’. Look for intention tremor, and ‘past pointing’. • Test for dysdiadokokinesis: ask patient to repeatedly pronate and supinate forearm, tapping hands each time. Test both limbs. You may have to demonstrate. Failure to perform rapidly alternating movements is dysdiadokokinesis. • Test for pronator drift: with patient’s eyes closed and arms outstretched, tap down on their up-facing palms and look for a failure to maintain supination. 6 Sensation • Light touch: Use cotton wool, touch (not rub) it to sternum fi rst—‘this is what it should feel like, tell me where you feel it and if it feels diff erent’. Pro- ceed to test with cotton wool in all dermatomes (see p454), comparing left and right. • Pin prick: Repeat as
