Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


you feel it and if it feels diff erent’. Pro- ceed to test with cotton wool in all dermatomes (see p454), comparing left and right. • Pin prick: Repeat as above using a neurological pin, asking patient to tell you if it feels sharp or dull. • Temperature: Repeat as above, alternating hot and cold probes. Can the patient tell hot from cold? • Vibration: Using a 128Hz tuning fork (128 vibrate!) confi rm with patient that they ‘can feel a buzzing’ when you place the tuning fork on their sternum. Fig 2.31 Sensory dermatomes. Proceed to test at the most distal bony promi- nence and move proximally by placing the buzzing Reproduced from Harrison (ed) Revision Notes for MCEM Part A fork on the bony prominence, then stopping it with (2011), with permission from Oxford your fi ngers. Ask the patient to tell you when the University Press. buzzing stops. • Proprioception: With the patient’s eyes closed grasp distal phalanx of the index fi nger at the sides, not on top. Stabilize the rest of the fi nger. Flex and extend the joint, stopping at intervals to ask whether the fi nger tip is up or down. Top tips • Use the tendon hammer like a pendulum, let it drop, don’t grip it too tightly. • Ensure you are testing light touch, not stroke sensation. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 6677 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 68 Neurological examination of the lower limbs If the patient is able, begin your examination by asking the patient to remove their lower garments down to underwear, and to walk across the room. Gait analysis (p467) gives you more information than any other test. If they aren’t able to walk, start with them lying down, legs fully exposed. Then, Inspection, Tone, Refl exes, Power, Coordination, Sensation (fi g 2.32). 1 General inspection and gait Gait: Ask patient to walk a few metres, turn, and walk back to you. Note use of walking aids, symmetry, size of paces, arm swing. Ask patient to ‘walk heel-to-toe as if on a tightrope’ to exaggerate any instability. Ask patient to walk on tiptoes, then on heels. Inability to walk on tiptoes indicates S1 or gastrocn emius lesion. Inability to walk on heels indicates L4,5 lesion or foot drop. Romberg’s test: Ask patient to stand unaided with arms by their sides and close their eyes (be ready to support them). If they
