Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


heels indicates L4,5 lesion or foot drop. Romberg’s test: Ask patient to stand unaided with arms by their sides and close their eyes (be ready to support them). If they sway/lose balance the test is positive and indicates posterior column disease/sensory ataxia. Inspect: Abnormal posturing, muscle wasting, fasciculation (LMN lesion?), deformities of the foot (eg pes cavus of Frie- dreich’s ataxia or Charcot–Marie–Tooth disease). Is one leg smaller than the other (old polio, infantile hemiplegia)? 2 Tone Ask patient to ‘relax/go fl oppy like a rag-doll’. Ask if they have any pain in feet/legs/hips before passively fl exing and extend- ing each limb while also internally and externally rotating. Hold the patient’s knee and roll it from side to side. Put your hand behind the knee and raise it quickly. The heel should lift slightly from the bed if tone is normal. Any spasticity/rigidity? Clonus: Plantar fl ex the foot then quickly dorsifl ex and hold. More than 3 ‘beats’ of plantar fl exion is sustained clonus and is abnormal. Clonus can also be elicited at the patella with F rapid downward movement of patella. Hypertonia and clonus lo suggest an upper motor neuron lesion. (e P 3 Refl exes f For each refl ex, test right, then left and compare. If absent, attempt to elicit with ‘reinforcement’. Decide whether refl exes are absent/present (with reinforcement)/normal/brisk/exag- gerated. • Knee: (L3,4.) Strike on the patella tendon, just below the patella. • Ankle: (L5,S1.) Several accepted methods; ideally ask the patient to slightly bend the knee, then drop it laterally, grasp the foot and dorsifl ex, then strike the Achilles tendon. If hip pain limits mobility, dorsifl ex the foot with a straight leg and strike your hand, feeling for an ankle jerk. • Plantar refl exes: (L5, S1, S2.) Stroke the patient’s sole with an orange stick or similar. The normal refl ex is downward movement of the great toe. Babinski’s sign is positive if there is dorsifl exion of the great toe (this is abnormal (up- per motor neuron lesion) if patient age >6 months). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 6688 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 4 Power 69 Direct patient to adopt position and follow the following commands while you as the examiner resist movements as appropriate to grade power (p446). Test each muscle group bilaterally before moving on to the next position. See pp452–3 for myotomes. • Hip fl exion: ‘Keeping your
