Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


by stabilizing above the joint you are testing. • Test vibration by putting a buzzing tuning fork on the bony part of a joint (most distal point) with the patient’s eyes closed then ask them to tell you when the buzzing stops (pinch the tuning fork to stop it) to distinguish vibration from pressure sensation. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 6699 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 70 Cranial nerve examination Approach to examining the cranial nerves Where Cranial nerve names is the lesion? Think systematically. Is it in the brain- stem (eg MS) or outside, pressing on the brainstem? I olfactory Is it the neuromuscular junction (myasthenia) or the II optic muscles (eg a dystrophy)? Cranial nerves may be af- III oculomotor fected singly or in groups. Face the patient (helps IV trochlear spot asymmetry). For causes of lesions see BOX ‘Caus- V1 ophthalmic division es of cranial nerve lesions’. V2 maxillary division • I: Smell—test ability of each nostril (separately) to distinguish familiar smells, eg coff ee. V3 mandibular division • II: Acuity—test each eye separately, and its correct- VI abducens ability with glasses or pin-hole; use Snellen chart, or VII facial the one inside the cover of this book. Visual fi elds— VIII vestibulo cochlear compare with your own fi elds or formally via perim- IX glossopharyngeal etry testing. Any losses/inattention? Sites of lesions: X vagus OHCS p428. Pupils (p72)—size, shape, symmetry, reac- XI accessory tion to light (direct and consensual) or accommoda- XII hypoglossal tion. Swinging light test for relative aff erent pupillary defect. Ophthalmoscopy (OHCS, p414)—best learnt from an ophthalmologist and dilat- ing drops help! Darken the room, warn the patient you will need to get close to their face. Focus the lens on the optic disc (pale? swollen?). Follow vessels outwards to view each quadrant. If the view is obscured, examine the red refl ex, with your focus on the margin of the pupil, to look for a cataract. Try to get a view of the fovea by asking the patient to look directly at the ophthalmoscope Pathology here needs prompt oph- thalmic review. If in doubt, ask for slit lamp examination or photography of the retina. • III p, IV, & VI—eye movements. Ask the patient to keep their head still and follow your fi nger as you trace an imaginary ‘H’. IIIrd nerve palsy—ptosis, large pupil, eye down and out. IVth nerve palsy—diplopia on looking down and
