Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


their head still and follow your fi nger as you trace an imaginary ‘H’. IIIrd nerve palsy—ptosis, large pupil, eye down and out. IVth nerve palsy—diplopia on looking down and in (often no- ticed on descending stairs)—head tilting compensates for this (ocular torticollis). VIth nerve palsy—horizontal diplopia on looking out. Nystagmus is involuntary, often jerky, eye oscillations. Horizontal nystagmus is often due to a vestibular le- sion (acute: nystagmus away from lesion; chronic: towards lesion), or cerebellar lesion (unilateral lesions cause nystagmus towards the aff ected side). If it is more in whichever eye is abducting, MS may be the cause (internuclear ophthalmoplegia, see fi g 2.34). If also deafness/tinnitus, suspect a peripheral cause (eg VIIIth nerve lesion, barotrauma, Ménière’s, p462). If it varies with head position, suspect benign positional vertigo (p462). If it is up-and-down, ask a neurologist to review—upbeat nystagmus classically occurs with lesions in the midbrain or at the base of the 4th ventricle, downbeat nystagmus in foramen magnum lesions. Nystagmus lasting ≤2 beats is normal, as is nystagmus at the extremes of gaze. • V: Motor palsy—‘Open your mouth’; jaw deviates to side of lesion, muscles of mas- tication (temporalis, masseter and pterygoids). Sensory—check all three divisions. Consider corneal refl ex (lost fi rst). • VII: p Facial nerve lesions cause droop and weakness. As the forehead has bilateral representation in the brain, only the lower two-thirds is aff ected in UMN lesions, but all of one side of the face in LMN lesions. Ask to ‘raise your eyebrows’, ‘show me your teeth’, ‘puff out your cheeks’. Test taste with salt/sweet solutions (supplies anterior two-thirds of tongue). • VIII: Hearing—p464. Ask to repeat a number whispered in an ear while you block the other. Perform Weber’s and Rinne’s tests (p464). Balance/vertigo—p462. • IX p & X: p Gag refl ex—ask the patient to say ‘Ah’. Xth nerve lesions also cause the pal- ate to be pulled to the normal side on saying ‘Ah’, uvula deviates away. Ask them to swallow a sip of water. Consider gag refl ex—touch the back of the soft palate with an orange stick. The aff erent arm of the refl ex involves IX; the eff erent arm involves X. • XI: Trapezii—‘Shrug your shoulders’ against resistance. Sternocleidomastoid: ‘Turn your head to the left/right’ against resistance. • XII: Tongue movement—the tongue deviates to the side of the lesion. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 7700 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066
