Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


stroke (presents with fi xed small pupils ± quadriparesis). • VII: LMN—Bell’s palsy (p500), polio, otitis media, skull fracture; cerebellopontine angle tumours, eg acoustic neuroma, malignant parotid tumours, herpes zoster (Ramsay Hunt syndrome p501, OHCS p652). UMN—(spares the forehead, because of its bilateral cortical representation), stroke, tumour. • VIII: (p462 & p464.) Noise damage, Paget’s disease, Ménière’s disease, herpes zoster, acoustic neuroma, brainstem CVA, drugs (eg aminoglycosides). • IX, X, XI: Trauma, brainstem lesions, neck tumours. • XII: Rare. Polio, syringomyelia, tumour, stroke, bulbar palsy, trauma, TB. Groups of cranial nerves: VIII, then V, VI, IX, & X: cerebellopontine angle tumours, eg acoustic neuroma (p462; facial weakness is not a prominent sign). III, IV & VI: stroke, tumours, Wernicke’s enceph alopathy; aneurysms, MS. III, IV, Va, & VI: cavernous sinus thrombosis, supe- rior orbital fi ssure lesions (Tolosa–Hunt syndrome, OHCS p654). IX, X, & XI: jugular foramen lesion. : myasthenia gravis, muscular dystrophy, myotonic dystrophy, mononeuritis multiplex (p502). Top tips If the patient is able to shake their head, there is no meningism. 4 Remember the commonest cause of monocular or binocular blindness is not a cranial nerve lesion but a problem with the eye itself (cataracts, retinal problems). Neurological disorders more commonly cause loss of part of the visual fi eld. 5 Unilateral disc swelling = papillitis, bilateral papillitis/disc swelling = papilloedema. Check both eyes! c= structures passing through the cavernous sinus; see BOX ‘Psychiatric symptoms’, p89. NB: Va is the only division of V to do so. p= Remember that these cranial nerves carry parasympathetic fi bres. Sympathetic fi bres originate from the thoracic chain and run with the arterial supply to distribute about the body (see also OHCS, fi g 9.6, p621). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 7711 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 72 Cranial nerve lesions of the eye Pupillary abnormalities Key questions: • Equal, central, circular, dilated, or constricted? • React to light, directly and consensually? • Constrict normally on convergence/accommodation? Irregular pupils: Anterior uveitis (iritis), trauma to the eye, syphilis. Dilated pupils: CN III lesions (inc. ICP, p830) and mydriatic drugs. Always ask: is this pupil dilated, or is it the other that is constricted? Constricted pupils: Old age, sympathetic nerve damage (Horner’s, p702, and ptosis, p73), opiates, miotics (pilocarpine drops for glaucoma), pontine damage. Unequal pupils (anisocoria): May be due to unilateral lesion, eye-drops, eye surgery, syphilis, or Holmes–Adie pupil. Some inequality is normal. Light reaction: Test:
