Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


miotics (pilocarpine drops for glaucoma), pontine damage. Unequal pupils (anisocoria): May be due to unilateral lesion, eye-drops, eye surgery, syphilis, or Holmes–Adie pupil. Some inequality is normal. Light reaction: Test: cover one eye and shine light into the other obliquely. Both pupils should constrict, one by direct, other by consensual light refl ex (fi g 2.33). The lesion site is deduced by knowing the pathway: from the retina the message passes up the optic nerve (CNII) to the superior colliculus (midbrain) and thence to the CNIII nuclei on both sides. The IIIrd cranial nerve causes pupillary constriction. If a light in one eye causes only contralateral constriction, the defect is ‘eff erent’, as the aff erent pathways from the retina being stimulated must be intact. Test for relative afferent pupillary defect: move torch quickly from pupil to pupil. If there has been incomplete damage to the aff erent pathway, the aff ected pupil will paradoxically dilate when light is moved from the normal eye to the abnormal eye. This is because, in the face of reduced aff erent input from the aff ected eye, the consensual pupillary relaxation response from the normal eye predominates. This is the Marcus Gunn sign, and may occur after apparent complete recovery from the initial lesion. Reaction to accommodation/convergence: If the patient fi rst looks at a distant object and then at the examiner’s fi nger held a few inches away, the eyes will con- verge and the pupils constrict. Aff erent fi bres in each optic nerve pass to the lateral geniculate bodies. Impulses then pass to the pre-tectal nucleus and then to the para- sympathetic nuclei of the IIIrd cranial nerves, causing pupillary constriction. • Holmes–Adie (myotonic) pupil: The aff ected pupil is normally moderately dilated and is poorly reactive to light, if at all. It is slowly reactive to accommodation; wait and watch carefully: it may eventually constrict more than a normal pupil. It is often associated with diminished or absent ankle and knee refl exes, in which case the Holmes–Adie syndrome is present. Usually a benign incidental fi nding. Rare causes: Lyme disease, syphilis, parvovirus B19, HSV, autoimmunity. >. • Argyll Robertson pupil: This occurs in neurosyphilis. The pupil is constricted and unreactive to light, but reacts to accommodation. Other possible causes: Lyme disease; HIV; zoster; diabetes mellitus; sarcoidosis; MS; paraneoplastic; B12. The iris may be patchily atrophied, irregular, and depigmented.
