Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


and unreactive to light, but reacts to accommodation. Other possible causes: Lyme disease; HIV; zoster; diabetes mellitus; sarcoidosis; MS; paraneoplastic; B12. The iris may be patchily atrophied, irregular, and depigmented. The lesion site is not always near the Edinger–Westphal nucleus or even in the midbrain. Pseudo-Argyll Robertson pupils occur in Parinaud’s syndrome (p708). • Hutchinson pupil: This is the sequence of events resulting from rapidly rising uni- lateral intracranial pressure (eg in intracerebral haemorrhage). The pupil on the side of the lesion fi rst constricts then widely dilates. The other pupil then goes through the same sequence. See p830. Fig 2.33 Light refl ex. Action potentials go along optic nerve (red), traversing optic chiasm, passing synapses at pre-tectal nu- cleus, en route to Edinger–Westphal nuclei of CNIII. These send fi bres to both irises’ ciliary muscles (so both pupils constrict) via ciliary ganglion (also relays accom- modation and corneal sensation, and gets sympathetic roots from C8–T2, carrying fi bres to dilate pupil). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 7722 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH Fig 2.34 Internuclear ophthal- 73 moplegia (INO) and its causes. To produce synchronous eye move- ments, cranial nerves III, IV, and VI communicate through medial long itu dinal fasciculus in midbrain. In INO, a lesion disrupts commun - i cation, causing weakness in ad- duction of the ipsilate ral eye with nystagmus of the contralateral eye only when abducting. There may be incomplete or slow abduction of the ipsilateral eye during lateral gaze. Convergence is preserved. Causes MS or vascular (rarely: HIV; syphilis; Lyme disease; brainstem tumours; phenothiazine toxicity). Ptosis Drooping of the upper eyelid. Best observed with patient sitting up, with head held by examiner. Oculomotor nerve (CN III) innervates main muscle concerned (levator palpebrae), but nerves from the cervical sympathetic chain innervate superior tar- sal muscle, and a lesion of these nerves causes mild ptosis which can be overcome on looking up. Causes: 1 CN III lesions cause unilateral complete ptosis: look for other evidence of a CN III lesion: ophtha lmoplegia with ‘down and out’ deviation of the eye, pupil dil ated and unreactive to light or accommodation. If eye pain too, suspect infi ltration (eg by lymphoma or sarcoidosis). If  T° or consciousness, suspect infection (any tick bites?). 2 Sympathetic paralysis usually causes unilateral partial ptosis. Look for other evidence of a sympathetic lesion, as in Horner’s syndrome (p702): constricted pupil = miosis, lack of sweating
