Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Sensation: Test little fi nger (ulnar), index fi nger (median), and anatomi- cal snuff box (radial) using light touch/ pinprick. When you have clinched the diagnosis and functional status, examine each joint, palpating for tenderness, eff usions, and crepitus. Test sensation (see p67) and ex- amine the elbows. Consider examination of upper limbs and face. Top tips • Cross your fi ngers before the patient grips them, it hurts less! • Don’t forget to palpate the radial pulse. • Don’t forget to look at the elbows for plaques of psoriasis and rheumatoid nodules. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 7755 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 76 Musculoskeletal hand examination 2 The hands can give you a wealth of information about a patient. Shaking hands can tell you about thyroid disease (warm, sweaty, tremor), anxiety (cold, sweaty), and neurological disease (myotonic dystrophy patients have diffi culty relaxing their grip, a weak grip may suggest muscle wasting or peripheral neuropathy). The nails and skin can inform about systemic disease: Nail abnormalities • Koilonychia (spoon-shaped nails, fi g 2.40) suggests iron defi ciency, haemochromatosis, infection (eg fungal), endocrine disorders (eg acromegaly, hypo- thyroidism), or malnutrition. • Onycholysis (detachment of the nail from the nail- bed) is seen with hypert hyroidism, fungal infection, and psoriasis. • Beau’s lines (fi g 2.41) are transverse furrows from Fig 2.40 Koilonychia. temporary arrest of nail growth at times of biologi- cal stress: severe infection. Nails grow at ~0.1mm/d, the furrow’s distance from the cuticle allows dating of the stress. • Mees’ lines are single white transverse bands clas- sically seen in arsenic poisoning, chronic kidney dis- ease, and carbon monoxide poisoning among others. • Muehrcke’s lines are paired white parallel trans- verse bands (without furrowing of the nail itself, Fig 2.41 Beau’s lines, here due distinguishing them from Beau’s lines) seen, eg, in to chemotherapy, a new line is chronic hypoalbuminaemia, Hodgkin’s disease, pel- seen with each cycle. See p525. lagra (p268), chronic kidney disease. • Terry’s nails: Proximal portion of nail is white/ pink, nail tip is red/brown (causes include cirrhosis, chronic kidney disease, congestive cardiac failure). • Pitting is seen in psoriasis and alopecia areata. • Splinter haemorrhages (fi g 2.42) are fi ne longitudi- nal haemorrhagic streaks (under the nails), which in the febrile patient may suggest infective endocardi- tis. They may be microemboli, or be normal—eg due Fig 2.42 Splinter haemor- to gardening. rhages. • Nail-fold infarcts: Embolic,
