Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


nails), which in the febrile patient may suggest infective endocardi- tis. They may be microemboli, or be normal—eg due Fig 2.42 Splinter haemor- to gardening. rhages. • Nail-fold infarcts: Embolic, typically seen in vascu- litic disorders (OHCS, p452). • Nail clubbing See p77. • Chronic paronychia is a chronic infection of the nail-fold and presents as a painful swollen nail with intermittent discharge (fi g 2.43). Skin changes Fig 2.43 Paronychia. • Palmar erythema (fi g 2.44) is associated with cir- Reproduced from Burge et al. Oxford Handbook of Medical rhosis, pregnancy, hyperthyroidism, rheumatoid Dermatology 2016, with permission arthritis, polycythaemia; also chronic liver disease— from Oxford University Press. via inactivation of vasoactive endotoxins by the liver. Also chemotherapy-induced palmar/plantar erythrodysaesthesia. • Pallor of the palmar creases suggests anaemia. • Pigmentation of the palmar creases is normal in people of African-Caribbean or Asian origin but is also seen in Addison’s disease and Nelson’s syn- drome (increased ACTH after removal of the adrenal glands in Cushing’s disease).15 • Gottron’s papules (purple rash on the knuckles) with dilated end-capillary loops at the nail fold sug- Fig 2.44 Palmar erythema. gests dermatomyositis (p552). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 7766 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH Nodules and contractures 77 • Dupuytren’s contracture (see fi g 2.26, p60) fi brosis and contrac ture of palmar fascia, p698) is seen in liver disease, trauma, epilepsy, and ageing. • Look for Heberden’s (DIP) fi g 2.45 and Bouchard’s (PIP) ‘nodes’—osteophytes (bone over-growth at a joint) seen with osteoarthritis. Fig 2.45 Heberden’s (DIP). Reproduced from Watts et al. (eds) Oxford Textbook of Rheumatology (2013), with permission from Oxford University Press. Clubbing Fingernails (± toenails) have increased curvature in all directions and loss of the angle between nail and nail fold and feel boggy (fi gs 2.46, 2.47). Pathogenesis is unclear although the platelet theory was developed in 1987.16 Megakaryocytes are normally fragmented into platelets in the lungs, and the original theory was that any disruption to normal pulmonary circulation (infl ammation, cancer, cardiac right-to-left shunting) would allow large megakaryocytes into the systemic cir- culation. They become lodged in the capillaries of the fi ngers and toes, releasing platelet-derived growth factor and vascular endothelial growth factor, which lead to tissue growth, vascular permeability, and recruitment of infl ammatory cells. Evidence showing platelet microthrombi in clubbed fi ngers, and high levels of PDGF and VEGF in patients with hypertrophic osteoarthropathy, support the theory. This does
