Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


recruitment of infl ammatory cells. Evidence showing platelet microthrombi in clubbed fi ngers, and high levels of PDGF and VEGF in patients with hypertrophic osteoarthropathy, support the theory. This does not explain the changes in patients with unilateral clubbing, usually seen in neurological disorders. Causes Thoracic: GI: Cardiovascular: • Bronchial cancer (clubbing is • Infl ammatory bowel dis-• Cyanotic twice as common in women); ease (especially Crohn’s) cong enital heart usu ally not small cell cancer • Cirrhosis disease • Chronic lung suppuration: • GI lymphoma • Endocarditis • Empyema, abscess • Malabsorption, eg coeliac.• Atrial myxoma • Bronchiectasis • Aneurysms • Cystic fi brosis • Infected grafts. • Fibrosing alveolitis Rare: • Mesothelioma • Familial • TB. • Thyroid acropachy (p562). Unilateral clubbing: • Hemiplegia • Vascular lesions, eg upper-limb artery aneurysm, Takayasu’s arteritis, brachial arteriovenous malformations (including iatrogenic— haemodialysis fi stulas). Fig 2.46 Finger clubbing. Fig 2.47 Testing for fi nger clubbing. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 7777 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 78 The peripheral vascular system: examination Arterial If limb is pale, pulseless, painful, paralysed, paraesthetic, and ‘perishingly cold’ this is acute ischaemia and is a surgical emergency (see p595 and p657). 1 Inspection: Look for scars of previous surgery and signs of peripheral arterial disease; loss of hair, pallor, shiny skin, cyanosis, dry skin, scaling, deformed toe- nails, ulcers, gangrene. Be sure to inspect the pressure points, ie between the toes and under the heel. 2 Palpation: Skin temperature will be cool in peripheral arterial disease. Is there a level above which it is warm? Delayed capillary refi ll (>2s) also indicates arte- rial disease. Are peripheral pulses palpable or not? ‘If you cannot count it, you are not feeling it.’ Note down on a quick stick-man diagram where they become palpable. Check for atrial fi brillation or other arrhythmias, as these can be the cause of embolic disease. Palpate for an enlarged abdominal aorta and attempt to assess size. (Though don’t press too fi rmly!) An expansile pulsatile mass in the presence of abdominal symptoms is a ruptured aneurysm until proven otherwise. 3 Auscultation: The presence of bruits suggests arterial disease. Listen over the major arteries—carotids, abdominal aorta, renal arteries, iliac femorals. 4 Special tests: Buerger’s angle is that above the horizontal plane which leads to development of pallor (<20° indicates severe ischaemia). Buerger’s sign is the sequential change in colour from white to pink, upon return to
