Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


that above the horizontal plane which leads to development of pallor (<20° indicates severe ischaemia). Buerger’s sign is the sequential change in colour from white to pink, upon return to the dependent position; if the limbs become fl ushed red (reactive hyperaemia) this is indicative of more severe disease. 5 Complete your examination: measure ABPI (p656), US Doppler assessment, and a neurological examination of the lower limbs. Venous (See also p658.) 1 Inspection: Look for any varicosities and decide whether they are the long sa- phenous vein (medial), short saphenous vein (posterior lateral, below the knee), or from the calf perforators (usually few varicosities but commonly show skin changes). Ulcers around the medial malleolus are more suggestive of venous disease, whereas those at the pressure points suggest arterial pathology. Brown haemosiderin deposits result from venous hypertension. There may also be atro- phy and loss of skin elasticity (lipodermatosclerosis) in venous disease. 2 Palpation: Warm varicose veins may indicate infection. Are they tender? Firm, tender varicosities suggests thrombosis. Palpate the saphenofemoral junction (SFJ) for a saphena varix which displays a cough impulse. Similarly, incompetence at the saphenopopliteal junction (SPJ) may be felt as a cough impulse. If ulcera- tion is present, it is prudent to palpate the arterial pulses to rule out arterial disease. 3 Tap test: A transmitted percussion impulse from the lower limit of the varicose vein to the saphenofemoral junction demonstrates incompetence of superfi cial valves. 4 Auscultation: Bruits over the varicosities means there is an arteriovenous mal- formation. 5 Doppler: Test for the level of refl ux. On squeezing the leg distal to placement of the probe you should only hear one ‘whoosh’ if the valves are competent at the level of probe placement. 6 Trendelenburg’s test assesses if the SFJ valve is competent. Doppler USS has largely consigned this and other examination methods (eg Tourniquet and Perthes’ test) to the history books. 7 Complete examination: examine the abdomen, pelvis in females, and external genitalia in males (for masses). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 7788 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH Arterial 79 1 General inspection Introduction, consent, patient sitting back at 45°. Inspect skin (hair loss, etc.). Look between toes and lift up heels to inspect for ulcers. 2 Palpation • Temperature: Bilaterally in thighs, legs, and feet. • Capillary refi ll: Press/squeeze great toe until blanches, release, and measure time for colour to return (normal <2s). • Peripheral pulses: Radial,
