Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Temperature: Bilaterally in thighs, legs, and feet. • Capillary refi ll: Press/squeeze great toe until blanches, release, and measure time for colour to return (normal <2s). • Peripheral pulses: Radial, brac hial (medial to biceps tendon), carotid, femoral (mid-inguinal point), popliteal (fl ex patient’s knees slightly, press into centre of popliteal fossa; fi g 2.48), Fig 2.48 Peripheral pulses: pop- posterior tibial (just posterior & inferior to liteal. medial malleolus) and dorsalis pedis (between Reproduced from Thomas J, et al. (eds). bases of 1st & 2nd metatarsals, lateral to exten- Oxford Handbook of Clinical Examina- sor hallucis longus); assess whether palpable tion and Practical Skills (2014), with bilaterally. Detect rate and rhythm. For brachial permission from Oxford University Press. and carotid, determine volume and character. • Abdominal aorta: Palpate midline above umbilicus; position fi ngers either side of outer- most palpable margins (fi g 2.49). Fig 2.49 Pulses: abdominal aorta. 3 Auscultation for carotid, femoral, renal iliac, (a) Expansile (aneurysm?) and aortic bruits. (b) Transmitted. Reproduced from Thomas J, et al. 4 Special tests (eds). Oxford Handbook of Clinical Examination and Practical Skills Buerger’s test: Lift both legs to 45° above the horizontal, (2014), with permission from Oxford supporting at heels. Allow a minute for legs to become University Press. pale. If they do, ask patient to sit up and swing around to lower legs to ground—observe colour change. 5 Complete examination Doppler probe to detect pulses and measure ankle –brachial pressure index; con- duct neurological examination of lower limbs. Venous 1 Inspection Introduction, consent. Inspect, initially with patient standing, for varicosities and skin changes. 2 Palpation •Temperature of varicosities. •Ask patient to cough while you palpate for impulse at SFJ and SPJ. 3 Tap test Percuss lower limit of varicosity and feel for impulse at SFJ. 4 Auscultation Listen for bruits over any varicosities. 5 Doppler Place probe over SFJ, squeeze calf and listen. Repeat with probe at SPJ. 6 Tourniquet test Elevate leg and massage veins to empty varicosities. Apply tourniquet to upper thigh. Ask patient to stand. If not controlled, repeat, placing tourniquet below knee. 7 Finish with examinations of abdomen; rectum; pelvis (); genitals (). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 7799 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 80 The genitourinary system: history See table 2.11 for direct questions to ask regarding presenting symptoms. Detecting outfl ow obstruction (See ‘Irritative or obstructive bladder symptoms’ later in topic.) Eg prostatic hyperplasia; stricture; stone.
