Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


history See table 2.11 for direct questions to ask regarding presenting symptoms. Detecting outfl ow obstruction (See ‘Irritative or obstructive bladder symptoms’ later in topic.) Eg prostatic hyperplasia; stricture; stone. Ask about LUTS (lower uri- nary tract symptoms). • On trying to pass water, is there delay before you start? (Hesitancy) • Does the fl ow stop and start? Do you go on dribbling when you think you’ve stopped? (Terminal dribbling) • Is your stream getting weaker? (Poor stream) • Is your stream painful and slow/‘drop-by-drop’? (eg from bladder stone) • Do you feel the bladder is not empty after passing water? i • Do you ever pass water when you do not want to? (Incontinence—p648) • On feeling an urge to pass water, do you have to go at once? (Urgency)i • Do you urinate often at night? (Nocturia) i In the day? (Frequency)i How often? Past history Renal colic, urinary tract infection, diabetes, BP, gout, analgesic use (p318), previous operations. Drug history Anticholinergics, prophylactic antibiotics. Family history Prostate carcinoma? Renal disease? Social history Smoking, sexual history. Table 2.11 Presenting symptoms and questions to ask Presenting symptoms Direct questions Dysuria Pain: SOCRATES (p36). Fever? Sexual history. Lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) Abnormal-looking urine? Previous problems. Loin/scrotal pain Must rule out testicular torsion (p652). Haematuria (p293 and p647) Urethral/vaginal discharge (p413) Sex problems; dyspareunia (OHCS p310) Menses (OHCS p250) Ask about menarche, menopause, length of periods, amount, pain? Intermenstrual loss? 1st day of last menstrual period (LMP)? Dysuria Be sure you mean the same as your patient and colleagues, as dysuria refers to both painful micturition (‘uralgia') and diffi cult micturition (voiding diffi culty, p81). Uralgia is typically from urethral, bladder, or vaginal infl ammation (UTI; perfumed bath products, spermicides, urethral syndrome, p300). If post menopausal, look for a urethral caruncle—fl eshy outgrowth of distal urethral mucosa, 1cm, typically origi- nating from the posterior urethral lip. Also think of prostatitis, STI/urethritis (p413), vaginitis, and vulvitis. Rare causes: Stones, urethral lesions (eg car cinoma, lympho- ma, papilloma), post-partum complications (eg retained products of conception). Voiding diffi culty is a sign of outfl ow obstruction, eg from an enlarged prostate, or urethral stricture (commonly post-traumatic, post-gonococcal). Other features: straining to void, poor stream, urinary retention, and incontinence. Strang ury is urethral pain, usually referred from the bladder base, causing a constant distr es sing desire to urinate even if there is little
