Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


stream, urinary retention, and incontinence. Strang ury is urethral pain, usually referred from the bladder base, causing a constant distr es sing desire to urinate even if there is little urine to void. Causes: Stones, catheters, cys- titis, prostati tis, bladder neoplasia, rarely: bladder endometriosis, schistosomiasis. Frequency Aim to diff erentiate urine production (eg diabetes mellitus and insipidus, polydip- sia, diuretics, alcohol, renal tubular disease, adrenal insuffi ciency) from frequent passage of small amounts of urine (eg in cystitis, urethritis, neurogenic bladder), or bladder com pression or outfl ow obstruction (pregnancy, bladder tumour, en- larged prostate). i = irritative (or ‘fi lling’) symptoms: they can be caused by, for example, UTI, as well as obstructions. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 8800 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH Oliguria/anuria 81 Oliguria is defi ned as a urine output of <400mL/24h or <0.5mL/kg/h and can be a sign of shock (eg post-op, p576) or acute kidney injury: causes: p298. Anuria is defi ned as <50mL/24h. In a catheterized patient with sudden anuria consider catheter blockage, with slow decline of oliguria to anuria renal dysfunction is more likely. Polyuria Increased urine volume, eg >3L/24h. Causes: Over-enthusiastic IV fl uid therapy; diabe- tes mellitus & insipidus (diabetes is Greek for fountain);Ca2+; psycho genic polydipsia/ PIP syndrome (p240); polyuric phase of recovering acute tubular necrosis. Irritative or obstructive bladder symptoms (See also p642.) Symptoms of prostate enlargement are miscalled ‘prosta tism’; it is better to talk about irritative or obstructive bladder symptoms, as bladder neck obstruction or a stricture may be the cause. 1 Irritative bladder symptoms: Urgency, dysuria, frequency, nocturia 6 (the last two are also associated with causes of polyuria). 2 Obstructive symptoms: Reduced size and force of urinary stream, hesitancy and interruption of stream during voiding and terminal dribbling—the usual cause is enlargement of the prostate (prostatic hyperplasia), but other causes include a urethral stricture, tumour, urethral valves, or bladder neck contracture. The maximum fl ow rate of urine is normally ~18–30mL/s. Terminal dribbling Dribbling at the end of urination, often seen in conjunction with incontinence follow- ing incomplete urination, associated with prostatism. Urinary changes Cloudy urine suggests pus (UTI) but is often normal phosphate precipitation in an alkaline urine. Pneumaturia (bubbles in urine as it is passed). Occurs with UTI due to gas-forming organisms or may signal an enterovesical (bowel–bladder) fi stula from diverticulitis, Crohn’s disease or neoplastic disease of the bowel. Nocturia occurs with ‘irritative
