Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


BOX ‘Nipple discharge’) Past history Any previous lumps and/or malignancies. Previous mammograms, clinical examinations of the breast, USS, fi ne-needle aspirate (FNA)/core biopsies. Drug history Ask specifi cally about HRT and the Pill. Family history See p520. Social history Try to gain an impression of support network if suspect malignancy. Breast pain Is it premenstrual (cyclical mastalgia, OHCS p254)? Breast cancer (refer, eg, for mammography if needed)? If non-malignant and non-cyclical, think of: • Tietze’s syndrome (costochondritis plus swelling of the costal cartilage) • Bornholm disease/Devil’s grip (Coxsackie B virus, causing chest and abdominal pain, which may be mistaken for cardiac pain or an acute surgical abdomen. It resolves within ~2 weeks) • angina • gallstones • lung disease • thoracic outlet syndrome • oestrogens/HRT. If none of the above, wearing a fi rm bra all day may help, as may NSAIDS. Nipple discharge Causes: Duct ectasia (green/brown/red, often multiple ducts and bilateral), intra- ductal papilloma/adenoma/carcinoma (bloody discharge, often single duct), lacta- tion. Management: Diagnose the cause (mammogram, ultrasound, ductogram); then treat appropriately. Cessation of smoking reduces discharge from duct ecta- sia. Microdochectomy/total duct excision can be considered if other measures fail, though may give no improvement in symptoms. With thanks to Dr Simon Vann Jones for his contribution to this page. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 8822 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH The breast: examination 83 1 Inspection Assess size and shape of any masses as well as overlying surface. Which quadrant (see fi g 2.51)? Note skin involvement; ulceration, dimpling (peau d’orange), and nipple inversion/discharge. 2 Palpation of the breast Confi rm size, and shape of any lump. Is it fi xed/teth- ered to skin or underlying structures (see BOX 2 ‘Palpation’)? Is it fl uctuant/com- pressible/hard? Temperature? Tender? Mobile (more likely to be fi broadenoma)? 3 Palpation of the axilla for lymph nodes Metastatic spread? Ipsilateral/bilat- eral? Matted? Fixed? 4 Further examination Examine abdomen for hepatomegaly, spine for tender- ness, lungs (metastatic spread). 1 General inspection Always have a chaperone present when examining the breast. Introduction, consent, position patient sitting at edge of bed with hands by her side, expose to waist. Inspect both breasts for obvious masses, contour anomalies, asymmetry, scars, ulceration, skin changes, eg peau d’orange (orange peel appear- ance resulting from oedema). Look for nipple inversion and nipple discharge. Ask her to ‘press hands on hips’ and then ‘hands on head’ to accentuate any asymmetri- cal changes. While
