Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


ance resulting from oedema). Look for nipple inversion and nipple discharge. Ask her to ‘press hands on hips’ and then ‘hands on head’ to accentuate any asymmetri- cal changes. While patient has her hands raised inspect axillae for any masses as well as inspecting under the breasts. 2 Palpation of the breast Position patient sitting back at 45° with hand behind head (ie right hand behind head when examining the right breast—see fi g 2.50). Ask patient if she has any pain or discharge. Exam- ine painful areas last and then ask her to ex- press any discharge. Examine each breast with Fig 2.50 Correct patient position for the ‘normal’ side fi rst. Examine each quadrant breast examination. in turn as well as the axillary tail of Spence (fi g Reproduced from Thomas J, et al. Oxford 2.51) or use a concentric spiral method (fi g 2.52) Handbook of Clinical Examination and using a fl at hand to roll breast against underly- Practical Skills (2014), with permission ing chest wall. Defi ne any lumps/lumpy areas. from Oxford University Press. If you discover a lump, to examine for fi xity to the pectoral muscles ask the patient to push against your hand with her arm outstretched. 3 Palpation of the axilla Examine both axillae. When examining right axilla, hold the patient’s right arm with your right hand and examine axilla with left hand. Fig 2.51 The quadrants of the breast Five sets of axillary nodes: with the axillary tail of Spence. i) apical (palpate against glenohumeral joint) Reproduced from Thomas J, et al. Oxford Handbook of Clinical Examination and ii) anterior (palpate against pectoralis major) Practical Skills (2014), with permission iii) central (palpate against lateral chest wall) from Oxford University Press. iv) posterior (palpate against latissimus dorsi) v) medial (palpate against humerus). 4 Further examination Fig 2.52 Methods for systematic breast Complete examination by palpating down palpation. spine for tenderness, examining abdomen for Reproduced from Thomas J, et al. Oxford hepatomegaly, and lungs for signs of metasta- Handbook of Clinical Examination and ses. Thank patient and wash hands. Practical Skills (2014), with permission from Oxford University Press. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 8833 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 84 The thyroid: examination For symptoms of thyroid disease see p218 & p220. See also lumps in the neck, p598– 600. 1 Inspection The key questions to ask oneself when presented with a lump in the neck
