Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


thyroid disease see p218 & p220. See also lumps in the neck, p598– 600. 1 Inspection The key questions to ask oneself when presented with a lump in the neck are: Is this lump thyroid related or not? What is the patient’s thyroid sta- tus? Inspect the neck; the normal thyroid is usually neither visible nor palpable. A midline swelling should raise your suspicion of thyroid pathology. Look for scars (eg collar incision from previous thyroid surgery). Examine the face for signs of hypothyroidism (puffi ness, pallor, dry fl aky skin, xanthelasma, corneal arcus, balding, loss of lateral third of eyebrow) as well as overall body habitus. Assess the patient’s demeanour; do they appear anxious, nervous, agitated, fi dgety (hy- perthyroid)? Or slow and lethargic (hypothyroid)? 2 Swallow test Only goitres (p600), thyroglossal cysts (p598) and in some cases lymph nodes should move up on swallowing. 3 Tongue protrusion test A thyroglossal cyst will move up on tongue protrusion. 4 Palpation (By this stage of the examination if the evidence is in favour of the lump not rising from the thyroid it is acceptable to examine the lump like any oth- er (p594); assess site, size, shape, smoothness (consistency), surface (contour/ edge/colour), and surroundings, as well as transilluminance, fi xation/tetheri ng, fl uctuance/compressibility, temperature, tenderness and whether it is pulsatile.) If a thyroid mass is suspected, standing behind the patient provides an oppor- tunity to check for any proptosis (hyperthyroidism). Proceed to palpate each lobe, attempting to decide whether any lump is solitary or multiple, nodular or smooth/diffuse as well as site, size, etc. Repeating the swallow test while palpating allows you to confi rm the early fi nding, but also attempt to ‘get below the lump’. If there is a distinct inferior border under which you can place your hand with the entire lump above it then the goitre is unlikely to have retrosternal extension. Examining for ‘spread’ to the lymph nodes is particularly important if you suspect a thyroid malignancy (p600). Complete palpation by assessing if the presence of the lump has caused the trachea to deviate from the midline. 5 Percussion A retrosternal goitre will produce a dull percussion note when the sternum is percussed. 6 Auscultation A bruit in a smooth thyroid goitre is suggestive of Graves’ disease (p218). The next stages of the exam are to examine the systemic signs of thyroid status. 7 Hands
