Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


A bruit in a smooth thyroid goitre is suggestive of Graves’ disease (p218). The next stages of the exam are to examine the systemic signs of thyroid status. 7 Hands Clubbing (‘thyroid acropachy’) is seen in Graves’ disease. Palmar erythe- ma and a fi ne tremor are also signs of thyrotoxicosis. Assess temperature (warm peripheries if hyperthyroid) and the radial pulse; tachycardia and atrial fi brilla- tion are seen in hyperthyroidism, while bradycardia is seen in hypothyroidism. 8 Eyes The ‘normal’ upper eyelid should always cover the upper eye such that the white sclera is not visible between the lid and the iris. In hyperthyroidism with exophthalmus there is proptosis as well as lid retraction and ‘lid lag’ may also be detected. If the patient reports double vision when eye movements are being tested this indicates ophthalmoplegia of hyperthyroidism. 9 Asking the patient to stand allows you to assess whether there is any proximal myopathy (hypothyroidism). Look for pretibial myxoedema (brown swelling of the lower leg above the lateral malleoli in Graves’ disease). Finally, test the refl ex- es; these will be slow relaxing in hypothyroidism and brisk in hyperthyroidism. 10 Thank the patient and consider whether the lump is a goitre, and if so whether it is single/multiple, diff use/nodular, as well as the patient’s thyroid status. Decide on a diagnosis (p600). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 8844 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 1 Inspection 85 Introduction, consent, position patient sitting on a chair (with space behind), adequately expose neck. Inspect from front and sides for any obvious goitres or swellings, scars, signs of hypo-/hyperthyroidism. 2 Swallow test Standing in front of the patient ask them to ‘sip water…hold in your mouth…and swallow’ to see if any midline swelling moves up on swallowing. 3 Tongue protrusion test Ask patient to ‘stick out your tongue’. Does the lump move up? (Thyroglossal cyst.) If evidence favours lump not arising from thyroid, examine lump like any other (p594) 4 Palpation Stand behind the patient. • Proptosis: (p219.) While standing behind the patient ask them to tilt their head back slightly; this will give you a better view to assess any proptosis than when assessing the other aspects of eye pathology from front on, as in 8) • The thyroid gland: Ask the patient ‘any pain?’ Place middle 3 fi ngers of either hand along midline below chin and ‘walk down’ to thyroid, 2 fi nger breadths
