Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


• The thyroid gland: Ask the patient ‘any pain?’ Place middle 3 fi ngers of either hand along midline below chin and ‘walk down’ to thyroid, 2 fi nger breadths be- low the cricoid on both sides. Assess any enlargement/ nodules • Swallow test: Repeat as before, now palpating; attempt to ‘get under’ the lump • Lymph nodes: Examine lymph nodes of head and neck (p60). Stand in front of the patient • Trachea: Palpate for tracheal deviation from the midline. 5 Percussion Percuss the sternum for dullness of retrosternal extension of a goitre. 6 Auscultation Listen over the goitre for a bruit. 7 Hands • Inspect: For thyroid acropachy (clubbing) and palmar erythema • Temperature • Pulse: Rate and rhythm • Fine tremor: Ask patient to ‘hold hands out’, place sheet of paper over out- stretched hands to help. 8 Eyes • Exophthalmos: Inspect for lid retraction and proptosis (p219) • Lid lag: Ask patient to ‘look down following fi nger’ as you move your fi nger from a point above the eye to below • Eye movements: Ask patient to follow your fi nger, keeping their head still, as you make an ‘H’ shape. Any double vision? 9 Completion Ask patient to stand up from the chair to assess for proximal myopathy, look for pretibial myxoedema, test ankle refl exes (ask patient to face away from you with knee resting on chair). Thank patient and wash hands. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 8855 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 86 Speech and higher mental function Have mercy on those with dysphasia: it is one of the most debilitating neurological conditions, and the more frustrating when cognitive function is intact. Dysphasia Impairment of language caused by brain damage. Assessment: 1 If speech is fl uent, grammatical, and meaningful, dysphasia is unlikely. 2 Comprehension: can the patient follow one-, two-, and several-step commands (touch your ear, stand up, then close the door)? 3 Repetition: can the patient repeat a sentence? Eg British Constitution. 4 Naming: can they name common and uncommon things (eg parts of a watch)? 5 Reading and writing: normal? They are usually aff ected like speech in dysphasia. If normal, the patient is unlikely to be aphasic—could they be mute? Classifi cation: • Broca’s (expressive) anterior dysphasia—non-fl uent speech produced with ef- fort and frustration with malformed words, eg ‘spoot’ for ‘spoon’ (or ‘that thing’). Reading and writing are impaired but comprehension
