Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


• Broca’s (expressive) anterior dysphasia—non-fl uent speech produced with ef- fort and frustration with malformed words, eg ‘spoot’ for ‘spoon’ (or ‘that thing’). Reading and writing are impaired but comprehension is relatively intact. Patients understand questions and attempt to convey meaningful answers. Site of lesion: in- fero-lateral dominant frontal lobe (see BOX ‘Problems with classifying dysphasias’). • Wernicke’s (receptive) posterior dysphasia—empty, fl uent speech, like talk- ing ragtime with phonemic (‘fl ush’ for ‘brush’) and semantic (‘comb’ for ‘brush’) paraphasias/neologisms (may be mistaken for psychotic speech). The patient is oblivious of errors. Reading, writing, and comprehension are impaired (replies are inappropriate). Site of lesion: posterior superior dominant temporal lobe. • Conduction aphasia—(traffi c between Broca’s and Wernicke’s area is interrupt- ed.) Repetition is impaired; comprehension and fl uency less so. • Nominal dysphasia—naming is aff ected in all dysphasias, but in nominal dyspha- sia, objects cannot be named but other aspects of speech are normal. This occurs with posterior dominant temporoparietal lesions. Mixed dysphasias are common. Discriminating features take time to emerge after an acute brain injury. Speech therapy is important, but may not help. Dysarthria Diffi culty with articulation due to incoordination or weakness of the musculature of speech. Language is normal (see earlier in topic). • Assessment: Ask to repeat ‘British Constitution’ or ‘baby hippopotamus’. • Cerebellar disease: Ataxia speech muscles cause slurring (as if drunk) and speech irregular in volume and staccato in quality. • Extrapyramidal disease: Soft, indistinct, and monotonous speech. • Pseudobulbar palsy: (p507) Spastic dysarthria (upper motor neuron). Speech is slow, indistinct, nasal and eff ortful (‘hot potato’ voice from bilateral hemispheric lesions, MND (p506), or severe MS). • Bulbar palsy: Lower motor neuron (eg facial nerve palsy, Guillain–Barré, MND, p506)—any associated palatal paralysis gives speech a nasal character. Dysphonia Diffi culty with speech volume due to weakness of respiratory muscles or vocal cords (myasthenia, p512; Guillain–Barré syndrome, p702). It may be precipi- tated in myasthenia by asking the patient to count to 100. Parkinson’s gives a mixed picture of dysarthria and dysphonia. Dyspraxia Poor performance of complex movements despite ability to do each in- dividual component. Test by asking the patient to copy unfamiliar hand positions, or mime an object’s use, eg a comb. The term ‘dyspraxia’ is used in three other ways: • Dressing dyspraxia: The patient is unsure of the orientation of clothes on his body. Test by pulling one sleeve
