Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


comb. The term ‘dyspraxia’ is used in three other ways: • Dressing dyspraxia: The patient is unsure of the orientation of clothes on his body. Test by pulling one sleeve of a sweater inside out before asking the patient to put it back on (mostly non-dominant hemisphere lesions). • Constructional dyspraxia: Diffi culty in assembling objects or drawing, eg a fi ve- pointed star (non-dominant hemisphere lesions, hepatic encephalopathy). • Gait dyspraxia: More common in the elderly; seen with bilateral frontal lesions, lesions in the posterior temporal region, and hydrocephalus. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 8866 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH Assessing higher mental function: a practical guide 87 Start by reassuring the patient ‘I know this may be diffi cult...’ and try to engage in conversation; asking questions that need to phrase to answer (ie not just yes/ no). This tests fl uency and reception, understanding, and allows assessment of articulation, eg ‘How did you travel here today?’, ‘I came by bus’. Then assess dysphasia by asking: ‘What is this’ eg pen (tests for nominal dysphasia), repeat ‘British Constitution’ (tests for conduction dysphasia and dysarthria). Then ask patient to follow one-, two-, and three-step commands ensuring these ‘cross the midline’, eg make a fi st with your right hand then extend your right index fi nger and touch your left ear. Problems with classifying dysphasias The classical model of language comprehension occurring in Wernicke’s area and language expression in Broca’s area is too simple. Functional MRI studies show old ideas that processing of abstract words is confi ned to the left hemisphere whereas concrete words are processed on the right are too simplistic. 7 It may be better to think of a mosaic of language centres in the brain with more or less specialized functions. There is evidence that tool-naming is handled diff erently and in a diff erent area to fruit-naming. There are also individual diff erences in the anatomy of these mosaics. This is depressing for those who want a rigid classifi cation of aphasia, but a source of hope to those who have had a stroke: recovery may be better than neuroimaging leads us to believe. Movement disorders Symptoms of movement disorders Athetosis is due to a lesion in the putamen, causing slow sinuous writhing move- ments in the hands, which are present at rest. Pseudoathetosis refers to athetoid movements in patients with severe proprioceptive loss. Chorea means dance (hence
