Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


putamen, causing slow sinuous writhing move- ments in the hands, which are present at rest. Pseudoathetosis refers to athetoid movements in patients with severe proprioceptive loss. Chorea means dance (hence ‘choreography’)—a fl ow of jerky movements, fl itting from one limb to another (each seemingly a fragment of a normal movement). Distinguish from athetosis/pseudoathetosis (above-mentioned), and hemiballis- mus (p468). Causes: Basal ganglia lesion (stroke, Huntington’s, p702); streptococci (Sydenham’s chorea; St Vitus’ dance, p142); SLE (p554); Wilson’s (p285); neonatal ker- nicterus; polycythaemia (p366); neuroacanthocytosis (genetic, with acanthocytes in peripheral blood, chorea, oro-facial dyskinesia, and axonal neuropathy); hyperthy- roidism (p218); drugs (levodopa, oral contraceptives/HRT, chlorpromazine, cocaine— ‘crack dancing’). The early stages of chorea may be detected by feeling fl uctuations in muscle tension while the patient grips your fi nger. : Dopamine antagonists, eg tetrabenazine 12.5mg/12h (/24h if elderly) PO; increase, eg to 25mg/8h PO; max 200mg/d. Hemiballismus is uncontrolled unilateral fl ailing movements of proximal limb joints caused by contralateral subthalamic lesions. See p468. Cerebellar signs Speech: Slurred/ataxic/staccato. Eye movements: Nystagmus. Tone and power: Hypotonia and reduced power. Coordination: Finger-to-nose test; test for dysdiado- chokinesis, p499. Gait: Broad based, patients fall to the side of the lesion. Romberg's test: ask patient to stand with eyes closed. If he/she loses balance, the test is posi- tive and a sign of posterior column disease. Cerebellar disease is Romberg negative. (DASHING: Dysdiadochokinesis, Ataxia, Slurred speech, Hypotonia and reduced power, Intention tremor, Nystagmus, broad based Gait.) 7 While abstract words activate a sub-region of the left inferior frontal gyrus more strongly than concrete words, specifi c activity for concrete words can also be observed in the left basal temporal cortex. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 8877 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 88 Psychiatric assessment Introduce yourself, ask a few factual questions (precise name, age, job, and who is at home). These may help your patient to relax, but be careful that you do not touch on a nerve, eg if job recently lost, marriage recently ended so living alone. Presenting problem Ask for the main problems that have led to this consultation. Sit back and listen. Don’t worry whether the information is in a convenient form or not—this is an opportunity for the patient to come out with worries, ideas, and preoccupations unsullied by your expectations. After >3–5min it is often good to aim to have a list of all the problems (each sketched only briefl y). Read them
