Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


ideas, and preoccupations unsullied by your expectations. After >3–5min it is often good to aim to have a list of all the problems (each sketched only briefl y). Read them back to the patient and ask if there are any more. Then ask about: History of presenting problem For each problem obtain details, both current state and history of onset, precipitating factors, and eff ects on life. Check of major psychiatric symptoms Check those that have not yet been cov- ered: depression—low mood, anhedonia (inability to feel pleasure), thoughts of worthlessness/hopelessness, sleep disturbance with early morning waking, loss of weight and appetite. Ask specifi cally about suicidal thoughts and plans: ‘Have you ever been so low that you thought of harming yourself?’, ‘What thoughts have you had?’ Check for hypomanic and manic features which can be missed in a patient presenting as depressed. Hallucinations (‘Have you ever heard voices or seen things when there hasn’t been anyone or anything there?’) and delusions (‘Have you ever had any thoughts or beliefs that have struck you afterwards as bizarre?’); anxiety and avoidance behaviour (eg avoiding shopping because of anxiety or phobias); ob- sessional thoughts and compulsive behaviour, eating disorders, alcohol (see p281 for alcohol screening tests) and other drugs. Present circumstances Housing, fi nance, work, relationships, friends. Family history Ask about health, personality, and occupation of parents and sib- lings, and the family’s medical and psychiatric history. Background history Try to understand the context of the presenting problem. • Biography: Relationships with family and peers as a child; school and work record; sexual relationships and current relationships; and family. Previous ways of dealing with stress and whether there have been problems and symptoms similar to the presenting ones. • Premorbid personality: Mood, character, hobbies, attitudes, and beliefs. Past medical and psychiatric history Establish any past or present co-morbidities. Mental state examination This is the state now, at the time of interview. Appearance: Clothing, glasses, headwear? Unkempt/normal/meticulous? Observable behaviour: Eg excessive slowness, signs of anxiety, gesture, gaze or avoiding gaze, tears, laughter, pauses (while listening to voices?), attitude (eg with- drawn). Mode of speech: Include the rate, eg retarded or gabbling (pressure of speech), rhythm, and tone of speech. Mood: Note thoughts about harming self or others. Gauge your own responses to the patient. The laughter and grand ideas of manic patients are contagious, as to a lesser extent is the expression of
