Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


harming self or others. Gauge your own responses to the patient. The laughter and grand ideas of manic patients are contagious, as to a lesser extent is the expression of thoughts from a depressed person. Thoughts: Content: eg about himself, his own body, about other people, and the future, any suicidal ideation? Note abnormal beliefs (delusions), eg that thoughts are overheard, and abnormal ideas (eg persecutory, grandiose). Form: fl ight of ideas? Knight’s move thinking? (See BOX ‘Psychiatric symptoms’.) Unusual experiences or hallucinations: Note modality, eg visual, auditory. Cognition: Orientated in time, place, and person? Short-term memory: give a name and address and test recall after 5min. Draw the face of a clock (requires good frontal and parietal function). Long-term memory: current aff airs recall. Name of current political leaders (p64). This tests many other CNS functions, not just memory. Concentration: Months of the year backwards. Insight: Does the patient think they are unwell? Do they think you can help? __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 8888 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH Psychiatric symptoms 89 There are many diff erent ways to think about psychiatric symptoms. One simple approach can be to consider negative and positive symptoms. Negative symp- toms involve the absence of a behaviour, thought, feeling, or sensation (eg lack of appetite, apathy, and blunted emotions in depression), whereas positive symp- toms involve their presence when not normally expected (eg thought insertion, ie ‘Someone is putting thoughts into my head’). Understanding the diff erence between psychosis and neurosis is vital. Psychosis entails a thought disorder (eg thought insertion, thought broadcasting) ± delusions (abnormal beliefs which are held to despite all reasoning, and which run counter to the patient’s cultural back- ground) and abnormal perceptions (eg hallucinations). Neurosis entails insight—if there are intrusive ideas or odd experiential phenomena, the person knows that they are false or illusory (and may be triggered by stress, etc.). Disorders of thought include fl ight of ideas, in which the speech races through themes, switching whimsically or through associations, eg ‘clang’ association: ‘Yesterday I went down to the local shop. I didn’t hop (clang), but I walked. Kan- garoos hop, don’t they? My friend Joey wasn’t there, though…’. Knight’s move is an unexpected change in the direction of speech or conversation (akin to the lateral component of the move of the knight’s piece in chess) and neologism is the formation of new words. They may be normal or indicate
