Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


or conversation (akin to the lateral component of the move of the knight’s piece in chess) and neologism is the formation of new words. They may be normal or indicate an organic brain condition or a psychosis. Many psychiatric symptoms in isolation, to a lesser degree of severity, or even in a diff erent culture, may well be considered part of ‘normal’ behaviour. For exam- ple, a vision from a religious fi gure may be considered normal, whereas one from an alien may not. Consider your patient in their cultural and religious context. As with so many aspects of medicine, in psychiatry there is a vast spectrum of behaviour, thought, and perception, at least one extreme of which is considered to be ‘abnormal’. It is in part our challenge to attempt to interpret these symptoms with relevance, insight, and impartiality so that we may best benefi t our patients and not form opinions that are set in stone. On acute medical wards psychiatric symptoms are often due to stress, drug or alcohol withdrawal, U&E imbalance, or medication. When in doubt, ask a psychiatrist to help. Beware of simplistic formulations, eg If you talk to God, you are praying. If God talks to you, you have schizophrenia (Dr Thomas Szasz). It is not the audi- tory phenomenon that makes the diagnosis of psychosis: what matters is what the patient believes about the phenomenon, and whether they are associated with a thought disorder or a delusion. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 8899 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 noitanimaxe dna yrotsiH 90 Method and order for routine examination 1 Look at the patient. Healthy, unwell, ori n extremis? This vital skill improves with practice. Beware those who are sicker than they look, eg cardiogenic shock; cord compression; non-accidental injury. 2 Pulse, BP, RR, O2 sats, T°. 3 Examine nails, hands, conjunctivae (anaemia), and sclerae (jaundice). Consider: Paget’s, acromegaly, endocrine disease (thyroid, pituitary, or adrenal hypo- or hyper-function), body hair, abnormal pigmentation, skin. 4 Examine mouth and tongue (cyanosed; smooth; furred; beefy, eg rhomboid area denuded of papillae by Candida, after prolonged steroid inhaler use). 5 Examine the neck from behind: lymph nodes, goitre. 6 Make sure the patient is at4 5° to begin CVS examination in the neck: JVP; feel for character and volume of carotid pulse. 7 The praecordium. Look for abnormal pulsations. Feel the apex beat (character; position). Any parasternal heave or thrill? Auscultate (bell and diaphragm) apex
