Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


who improve and maintain their fi tness live longer: age-adjusted mortality from all causes is reduced by >40%. Avoiding obesity helps too, but weight loss per se is only useful in reducing cardiovascular risk and the risk of developing diabetes when combined with regular exercise. Moderate alcohol drinking may also promote cardiovascular health. Hypertension is the chief risk factor for cardiovascular mortality, followed by smoking. Giving up smoking, even after many years, does bring benefi t. Simple ad- vice works. Most smokers want to give up. Just because smoking advice does not always work, do not stop giving it. Ask about smoking in consultations—especially those regarding smoking-related diseases. • Ensure advice is congruent with the patient’s beliefs about smoking. • Getting patients to enumerate the advantages of giving up  motivation. • Invite the patient to choose a date (when there will be few stresses) on which he or she will become a non-smoker. • Suggest throwing away all accessories (cigarettes, pipes, ash trays, lighters, matches) in advance; inform friends of the new change; practise saying ‘no’ to their off ers of ‘just one little cigarette’. • Nicotine gum, chewed intermittently to limit nicotine release: ≥ ten 2mg sticks may be needed/day. Transdermal nicotine patches may be easier. A dose in- crease at 1wk can help. Written advice off ers no added benefi t to advice from nurses. Always off er follow-up. • Varenicline is an oral selective nicotine receptor partial agonist. Start 1wk be- fore target stop date and gradually increase the dose. SES: appetite change; dry mouth; taste disturbance; headache; drowsiness; dizziness; sleep disorders; ab- normal dreams; depression; suicidal thoughts; panic; dysarthria. • Bupropion (=amfebutamone) is said to  quit rate to 30% at 1yr vs 16% with patches and 15.6% for placebo (patches + bupropion: 35.5%): 1 consider if the above fails. Warn of SES: seizures (risk <1:1000), insomnia, headache. Lipids and diabetes (pp690, 206) are the other major modifi able risk factors. The QRISK2 score (www.qrisk.org) is used in the UK to integrate a patient’s diff erent car- diovascular risk factors in order to predict future cardiovascular health.2 It can be used as part of a consultation on lifestyle factors to show patients that address- ing certain risk factors (eg smoking, BP) will reduce their risk of MIs and strokes. Apply preventive measures such as healthy eating (p244) early in life to maxim- ize impact, when
