Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


certain risk factors (eg smoking, BP) will reduce their risk of MIs and strokes. Apply preventive measures such as healthy eating (p244) early in life to maxim- ize impact, when there are most years to save, and before bad habits get ingrained. The randomized trial Cardiovascular medicine has an unrivalled treasure house of randomized trials. One of the chief pleasures of cardiovascular medicine lies in integrating these with clinical reasoning in a humane way. After a cardiac event, a protocol may ‘mandate’ statins, aspirin, -blockers, ACE-i (p114), and a target BP and LDL choles- terol that makes your patient feel dreadful. What to do? Inform, negotiate, and compromise. Never reject your patient because of lack of compliance with your over-exacting regime ns. Keep smiling, keep communicating, and keep up to date: the latest data may show that your patient was right all along.3 __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 9933 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC 94 Cardiovascular symptoms Chest pain Cardiac-sounding chest pain may have no serious cause, but always think ‘Could this be a myocardial infarction (MI), dissecting aortic aneurysm, pericar- ditis, or pulmonary embolism?’. Character: Constricting suggests angina, oesophageal spasm, or anxiety; a sharp pain may be from the pleura, pericardium, or chest wall. A prolonged (>½h), dull, central crushing pain or pressure suggests MI. Radiation: To shoulder, either or both arms, or neck/jaw suggests cardiac ischae- mia. The pain of aortic dissection (p654) is classically instantaneous, tearing, and interscapular, but may be retrosternal. Epigastric pain may be cardiac. Precipitants: Pain associated with cold, exercise, palpitations, or emotion suggests cardiac pain or anxiety; if brought on by food, lying fl at, hot drinks, or alcohol, con- sider oesophageal spasm/disease (but meals can also cause angina). Relieving factors: If pain is relieved within minutes by rest or glyceryl trinitrate (GTN), suspect angina (GTN relieves oesophageal spasm more slowly). If antacids help, suspect GI causes. Pericarditic pain improves on leaning forward. Associations: Dyspnoea occurs with cardiac pain, pulmonary emboli, pleurisy, or anxiety. MI may cause nausea, vomiting, or sweating. Angina is caused by coronary artery disease—and also by aortic stenosis, hypertrophic cardiomy opathy (HCM), paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (SVT)—and can be exacerbated by anae- mia. Chest pain with tenderness suggests self-limiting Tietze’s syndrome. 1 Odd neu- rological symptoms and atypical chest pain—think aortic dissection. Pleuritic pain: Pain exacerbated by inspiration. Implies infl ammation of the pleura from pulmonary infection, infl ammation, or infarction. It causes us to
