Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


symptoms and atypical chest pain—think aortic dissection. Pleuritic pain: Pain exacerbated by inspiration. Implies infl ammation of the pleura from pulmonary infection, infl ammation, or infarction. It causes us to ‘catch our breath’. : musculoskeletal pain;1 fractured rib (pain on respiration, exacerbated by gentle pressure on the sternum); subdiaphragmatic pathology (eg gallstones). Chest pain & acutely unwell (see p784) • Admit • Check pulse, BP in both arms (unequal in aortic dissection p654), JVP, heart sounds; examine legs for DVT • Give O2 • IV line • Relieve pain (eg 5–10mg IV morphine) • Cardiac monitor • 12-lead ECG • CXR • Arterial blood gas (ABG) Famous traps: Aortic dissection; zoster (p404); ruptured oesophagus; cardiac tamponade (p154); opiate addiction. Dyspnoea May be from LVF, PE, any respiratory cause, anaemia, pain, or anxiety. Severity: Emergency presentations: p782. Ask about shortness of breath at rest, on exertion, and on lying fl at; has their exercise tolerance changed? Associations: Specifi c symptoms associated with heart failure are orthopnoea (ask about number of pillows used at night), paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnoea (waking up at night gasp- ing for breath, p49), and peripheral oedema. Pulmonary embolism is associated with acute onset of dyspnoea and pleuritic chest pain; ask about risk factors for DVT. Palpitation(s) May be due to ectopics, sinus tachycardia, AF, SVT, VT, thyrotoxicosis, anxiety, and rarely phaeochromocytoma. See p36. History: Characterize: do they mean their heart was beating fast, hard, or irregularly? Ask about previous episodes, precipitating/relieving factors, duration of symptoms, associated chest pain, dysp- noea, dizziness, or collapse. Did the patient check their pulse? Syncope May refl ect cardiac or CNS events. Vasovagal ‘faints’ are common (pulse, pupils dilated). The history from an observer is invaluable in diagnosis. Prodromal symptoms: Chest pain, palpitations, or dyspnoea point to a cardiac cause, eg ar- rhythmia. Aura, headache, dysarthria, and limb weakness indicate CNS causes. During the episode: Was there a pulse? Limb jerking, tongue biting, or urinary incon- tinence? NB: hypoxia from lack of cerebral perfusion may cause seizures. Recovery: Was this rapid (arrhythmia) or prolonged, with drowsiness (seizure)? 1 25% of non-cardiac chest pain is musculoskeletal: look for pain on specifi c postures or activity. Aim to reproduce the pain by movement and, sometimes, palpation over the structure causing it. Focal inje ction of local anaesthetic helps diagnostically and is therapeutic. Tietze’s syndrome: self-limiting costochond ritis ± costosternal joint swelling. Causes: idiopathic; microtrauma; infection;
