Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


palpation over the structure causing it. Focal inje ction of local anaesthetic helps diagnostically and is therapeutic. Tietze’s syndrome: self-limiting costochond ritis ± costosternal joint swelling. Causes: idiopathic; microtrauma; infection; psori atic/rheumatoid arthritis. : NSAIDS or steroid injections. Tenderness is also caused by: fi brositis, lymph oma, chondrosarcoma, myeloma, metastases, rib TB. Imaging: bone scintigraphy; CT. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 9944 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC Chest pain from the patient’s perspective 95 On acute wards we are always hearing questions such as ‘Is your pain sharp or dull?’, followed by an equivocal answer. The doctor goes on: ‘Sharp like a knife—or dull and crushing?’ The doctor is getting irritated because the patient must know the answer but is not saying it. A true story paves the way to being less inquisito- rial and having a more creative understanding of the nature of symptoms. A patient came to a previous OHCM author saying ‘Last night I dreamed I had a pain in my chest. Now I’ve woken up, and I’m not sure—have I got chest pain, doctor? What do you think?’ How odd it is to be asked to examine a patient to exclude a symptom, not a disease. (It turned out that she did have serious chest pathology.) Odd, until one realizes that symptoms are often half-formed, and it is our role to give them a local habitation and a name. Dialogue can transform a symptom from ‘airy nothingness’ to a fact. 2 Patients often avoid using the word ‘pain’ to describe ischaemia: ‘wind’, ‘tighten- ing’, ‘pressure’, ‘burning’, or ‘a lump in the throat’ (angina means to choke) may be used. They may say ‘sharp’ to communicate severity, and not character. So be as vague in your questioning as your patient is in their answers. ‘Tell me some more about what you are feeling (long pause) … as if someone was doing what to you?’ ‘Sitting on me’ or ‘like a hotness’ might be the response (suggesting cardiac ischaemia). Do not ask ‘Does it go into your left arm’. Try ‘Is there anything else about it?’ (pause) … ‘Does it go anywhere?’ Note down your patient’s exact words. A good history, taking account of these features, is the best way to stratify pa- tients likely to have cardiac pain. If the history is non-specifi c, there are no risk fac- tors for cardiovascular diseases, and ECG and plasma troponin T (p118) are normal
