Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


tients likely to have cardiac pain. If the history is non-specifi c, there are no risk fac- tors for cardiovascular diseases, and ECG and plasma troponin T (p118) are normal 6–12h after the onset of pain, discharge will probably be OK. 4 When in doubt, get help. Features making cardiac pain unlikely: • Stabbing, shooting pain. • Pain lasting <30s, however intense. • Well-localized, left sub-mammary pain (‘In my heart, doctor’). • Pains of continually varying location. • Youth. Do not feel that you must diagnose every pain. Chest pain with no cause is com- mon, even after extensive tests. Some patients have a ‘chronic pain syndrome’ similar to post-herpetic neuralgia. Typically, this responds to a tricyclic, eg low- dose amitriptyline at night (this dose does not imply any depression). Avoid being that doctor who triumphantly tells a patient that they are fi ne and can go home, only to be met by a glare, as the disabling pain the patient presented with is no better than when they arrived. Take time to explain why you do not believe the pain is a result of dangerous pathology; to give advice on pain control and ‘red fl ags’; and to reassure the patient that their problem is likely to resolve with time. 2 Dialogue-transformed symptoms explain one of the junior doctor’s main vexations: when patients retell symptoms to a consultant in the light of day, they bear no resemblance to what you originally heard. But do not be vexed: your dialogue may have helped the patient far more than any ward round. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 9955 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC 96 ECG—a methodical approach Reading an ECG First confi rm the patient’s name and age, and the ECG date. Then (see fi g 3.3): • Rate: At usual speed (25mm/s) each ‘big square’ is 0.2s; each ‘small square’ is 0.04s. To calculate the rate, divide 300 by the number of big squares between two con- secutive R waves (table 3.1). The normal rate is 60–100bpm. • Rhythm: If cycles are not clearly regular, use the ‘card method’: lay a card along the ECG, marking positions of three successive R waves. Slide the card to and fro to check that all intervals are equal. If they are not, note if: • there is slight but regular lengthening and then shortening (with respiration)— sinus arrhythmia, common in the young • there are diff erent rates
