Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


If they are not, note if: • there is slight but regular lengthening and then shortening (with respiration)— sinus arrhythmia, common in the young • there are diff erent rates which are multiples of each other—varying block • it is 100% irregular—atrial fi brillation (AF) or ventricular fi brill ation (VF). Sinus rhythm is characterized by a P wave followed by a QRS complex. AF has no dis- cernible P waves and QRS complexes are irregularly irregular. Atrial fl utter (p130, fi g 3.35 p131) has a ‘sawtooth’ baseline of atrial depolarization (~300/min) and regular QRS complexes. Ventricular rhythm has QRS complexes >0.12s with P waves follow- ing them or absent (fi g 3.12, p106). • Axis: The overall direction of depolarization across the patient’s anterior chest; this is the sum of all the ventricular electrical forces during ventricular depolarization. See BOX ‘Determining the ECG axis’. Left axis deviation can result from left anterior hemiblock, inferior MI, VT from a left ventricular focus, WPW, LVH. Right axis devia- tion can result from RVH, PE, anterolateral MI, WPW and left posterior hemiblock. • P wave: Normally precedes each QRS complex, and upright in II, III, & aVF but invert- ed in aVR. Absent P wave: AF, P hidden due to junctional or ventricular rhythm. P mi- trale: bifi d P wave, indicates left atrial hypertrophy. P pulmonale: peaked P wave, indicates right atrial hypert rophy. Pseudo-P-pulmonale seen if K+. • PR interval: Measure from start of P wave to start of QRS. Normal range: 0.12–0.2s (3–5 small squares). A prolonged PR interval implies delayed AV conduction (1st degree heart block). A short PR interval implies unusually fast AV conduction down an accessory pathway, eg WPW (see fi g 3.37, p133). See heart block, p98. R R R R R R' S S Q S Q QS Fig 3.2 ‘QRS’ complexes. If the fi rst defl ection from the isoelectric line is negative, it is a Q wave. Any positive defl ection is an R wave. Any negative defl ection after an R is an S. • QRS complex: See fi g 3.2. Normal duration: <0.12s. QRS >0.12s suggests ventricular conduction defects, eg a bundle branch block (pp99, 100), metabolic disturbance, or ventricular origin (eg ventricular ectopic). High-amplitude QRS complexes suggest ventricular hypertrophy (p100). Normal Q waves are <0.04s wide and <2mm deep; they are often seen in leads I , aVL
