Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


(ventricular ectopics and nodal bradycardia are common). Hyperkalaemia: Tall, tented T wave, widened QRS, absent P waves, ‘sine wave’ appearance (see fi g 14.4, p675). Hypokal aemia: Small T waves, prominent U waves, peaked P waves. Hypercal- caemia: Short QT interval. Hypocalcaemia: Long QT interval, small T waves. See p711 for causes of long QT intervals. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 9988 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC P P P P 99 First degree AV block. P–R interval = 0.28s. P P P P Mobitz type I (Wenckebach) AV block. With each successive QRS, the P–R interval increases until there is a non-conducted P wave. P P P P P Mobitz type II AV block. Ratio of AV conduction varies from 2:1 to 3:1. P P P P P P P Complete AV block with narrow ventricular complex. There is no relation between atrial and the slower ventricular activity. Fig 3.5 Rhythm strips of heart blocks. Location, location, location When considering rate and rhythm, your fi ndings should be the same in all leads, albeit clearer in some than others. Other ECG features may vary lead by lead, both in terms of what is ‘normal’ and in what a change indicates. For example, ST eleva- tion in leads II, III, and aVF suggests an inferior MI requiring immediate treatment, likely PCI to the right coronary artery, see table 3.2. ST elevation across all leads, however, suggests instead pericarditis which necessitates entirely diff erent man- agement (p154). An R wave taller than the S is deep (R dominance) is normal in V5 and V6 but may suggest right ventricular strain or posterior MI if seen in V1 and V2. Table 3.2 ECG territories ECG leads Heart territory Coronary artery I, aVL, V4–V6 Lateral Circumfl ex V1–3 Anterioseptal Left anterior descending II, III, aVF Inferior Right coronary artery in 80% Circumfl ex in 20%: ‘left dominant’ V7–9 Posterior Circumfl ex Following a posterior MI, the standard 12-lead ECG will not show Q waves, ST elevation or hyperacute T waves. Instead, you may fi nd these changes but ‘upside-down’ in V1–V3: prominent R waves, fl at ST depression, and T-wave inver- sion. If you record V7–V9 leads, you may fi nd the classic ST elevation pattern and so confi rm posterior MI. See fi g 3.24. The ‘upside-down’ changes seen in posterior MI are called ‘reciprocal changes’: changes that appear when ‘looking’ at ischaemic myocardium from the other
