Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


confi rm posterior MI. See fi g 3.24. The ‘upside-down’ changes seen in posterior MI are called ‘reciprocal changes’: changes that appear when ‘looking’ at ischaemic myocardium from the other side of the heart. These can arise with MIs in other locations (fi g 3.9). They are particu- larly important in posterior MI as they may be the only changes on the 12-lead ECG. See fi g 3.9, 3.10, 3.24 for example ECGs. See fi g 3.18 for coronary artery anatomy. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 9999 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC 100 ECG—ad ditional points Where to place the chest leads (See fi g 3.6.) V1 : Right sternal edge, 4th intercostal space. V2 : Left sternal edge, 4th intercostal space. V3 : Half-way between V2 and V4. V4 : 5th intercostal space, mid-clavicular line; all subsequent leads are in the same horizontal plane as V4. V5 : Anterior axillary line. V6 : Mid-axillary line (V7: posterior axillary line). Good skin preparation (clean with non-alcoholic wipe, shave if hairy, etc.) will improve ECG qual- ity. Finish 12-lead ECGs with a long rhythm strip in lead II. QRS complexes: the long and the short QRS complexes represent ventricular depolariza- tion, and width represents time, so a broader QRS Fig 3.6 Placement of ECG leads. complex means depolarization of the ventricles is taking longer. Normally, a wave of depolarization reaches the ventricles via the spe- cialist conduction pathways—the bundles of His. This delivers the electrical activity to certain points of the ventricles, meaning the waves of depolarization need travel as short a distance as possible to depolarize all the ventricular myocardium. This al- lows rapid spread of depolarization and thus an effi cient contraction action as both ventricles contract from apex to outfl ow tracts together. Hence, the QRS complex is narrow (<120ms). Ventricular depolarization takes longer when depolarization is not initiated in this pattern. For example, if it originates in the ventricles (eg ventricular ectopics, VT) or if one or more branches of the bundles of His are blocked—bundle branch blocks —meaning depolarization is initiated in one ventricle but not the other, so it has to travel the long (in time and space) path from one ventricle to the other. Ventricular depolarization also takes longer if all conduction is slowed. This may happen in some electrolyte imbalances, eg hyperkalaemia. Right bundle branch block: (p102, fi g 3.8) QRS >0.12s, ‘RSR’ pattern in V1; dominant R
