Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


hospitals. Chest X-ray The humble chest X-ray provides just a snapshot of the heart and little detail but can be an important source of information and is often the only immedi- ately accessible imaging modality for a new or newly unwell patient. An enlarged heart (cardiothoracic ratio >0.5) suggests congestive heart failure; signs of pulmo- nary oedema suggest decompensated heart failure (see fi g 3.38); a globular heart may indicate pericardial eff usion (fi g 3.14); metal wires and valves will show up, evidencing previous cardiothoracic surgery; dextrocardia may explain a bizarre ECG; and rib notching may be an important clue in coarctation of the aorta (p156). Echocardiography This is the workhorse of cardiological imaging. Ultrasound is used to give real-time images of the moving heart. This can be transthoracic (TTE) or transoesophageal (TOE), at rest, during exercise, or after infusion of a pharmaco- logical stressor (eg dobutamine). If the patient is too unwell to be moved, an echo machine can be brought to them and continuous TOE imaging may be used as a guide during surgery. Increasingly pocket-sized echo machines are used for a quick assess- ment of an unwell patient, to be followed by a formal scan later. See p110. Cardiac CT This can provide detailed information about cardiac structure and func- tion. CT angiography (fi g 3.15) permits contrast-enhanced imaging of coronary ar- teries during a single breath hold with very low radiation doses. It can diagnose signifi cant (>50%) stenosis in coronary artery disease with an accuracy of 89%. CT coronary angiography has a negative predictive value of >99%, which makes it an eff ective non-invasive alternative to routine transcatheter coronary angiography to rule out coronary artery disease.6 Medications are often given to slow the heart down and the imaging may be ‘gated’, meaning the scanner is programmed to take images at times corresponding to certain points on the patient’s ECG. This allows characterization of the heart at diff erent points in the cardiac cycle. See p740. Cardiac MR A radiation-free method of characterizing cardiac structure and func- tion including viability of myocardium. By varying the settings, diff erent defects can be found. MR is the fi rst-choice imaging method to look at diseases that directly af- fect the myocardium (fi g 3.16). Nowadays, pacemakers are available which are safe for MR scanning—check MR safety with your cardiac technicians before requesting MR for patients with pacemakers
