Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


and colour-fl ow echocardiography: Diff erent coloured jets illustrate fl ow and gradients across valves and septal defects (p156) (Doppler eff ect, p736). Tissue Doppler imaging: This employs Doppler ultrasound to measure the velocity of myocardial segments over the cardiac cycle. It is particularly useful for assessing longitudinal motion—and hence long-axis ventricular function, which is a sensitive marker of systolic and diastolic heart failure. Transoesophageal echocardiography (TOE): More sensitive than transthoracic echo- cardiography (TTE) as the transducer is nearer to the heart. Indications: diagnosing aortic dissections; assessing prosthetic valves; fi nding cardiac source of emboli, and IE/SBE. Contraindicated in oesophageal disease and cervical spine instability. Stress echocardiography: Used to evaluate ventricular function, ejection fraction, myocardial thickening, regional wall motion pre- and post-exercise, and to charac- terize valvular lesions. Dobutamine or dipyridamole may be used if the patient can- not exercise. Inexpensive and as sensitive/specifi c as a thallium scan (p741). Uses of echocardiography Quantifi cation of global LV function: Heart failure may be due to systolic or diastol- ic ventricular impairment (or both). Echo helps by measuring end-diastolic volume. If this is large, systolic dysfunction is the likely cause. If small, diastolic. Pure forms of diastolic dysfunction are rare. Diff erentiation is important because vasodilators are less useful in diastolic dysfunction as a high ventricular fi lling pressure is required. Echo is also useful for detecting focal and global hypokinesia, LV aneurysm, mural thrombus, and LVH (echo is 5–10 times more sensitive than ECG in detecting this). Estimating right heart haemodynamics: Doppler studies of pulmonary artery fl ow and tricuspid regurgitation allow evaluation of RV function and pressures. Valve disease: The technique of choice for measuring pressure gradients and valve orifi ce areas in stenotic lesions. Detecting valvular regurgitation and estimating its signifi cance is less accurate. Evaluating function of prosthetic valves is another role. Congenital heart disease: Establishing the presence of lesions, and signifi cance. Endocarditis: Vegetations may not be seen if <2mm in size. TTE with colour Doppler is best for aortic regurgitation (AR). TOE is useful for visualizing mitral valve vegeta- tions, leafl et perforation, or looking for an aortic root abscess. Pericardial effusion: Best diagnosed by echo. Fluid may fi rst accumulate between the posterior pericardium and the left ventricle, then anterior to both ventricles and anterior and lateral to the right atrium. There may be paradoxical septal motion. HCM: (p152) Echo features include asymmetrical septal
