Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


and the left ventricle, then anterior to both ventricles and anterior and lateral to the right atrium. There may be paradoxical septal motion. HCM: (p152) Echo features include asymmetrical septal hypertrophy, small LV cavity, dilated left atrium, and systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 111100 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC (a) 111 (b) Septum RV Ascending Inferolateral aorta wall LV AV Right coronary cusp Non coronary cusp LA MV Descending Anterior leaflet aorta Posterior leaflet (c) (d) Lateral wall (papillary muscle usually not seen) Ventricular septum LV RV MV TV RA Posterior leaflet Lateral leaflet Septeral leaflet LA Anterior leaflet Interatrial septum RUPV Fig 3.17 Echo images. (a) A normal heart seen with the parasternal long-axis view. (b) Diagram of what can be seen in (a). (c) A normal heart seen in apical four-chamber view. (d) Diagram of what can be seen in (c). Reproduced from Leeson et al., Echocardiography, 2012, with permission from Oxford University Press. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 111111 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC 112 Cardiac catheterization This involves the insertion of a catheter into the heart via the femoral or radial artery or venous system, and manipulating it within the heart and great vessels to: • Inject radiopaque contrast medium to image cardiac anatomy and blood fl ow, see fi g 3.18a. • Perform angioplasty (ballooning and stenting), valvuloplasty (eg transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI, fi g 3.45)), cardiac biopsies, transcatheter septal defect closure. • Perform electrophysiology studies and radiofrequency ablations. • Sample blood to assess oxygen saturation and measure pressures. • Perform intravascular ultrasound or echocardiography. During the procedure, ECG and arterial pressures are monitored continuously. In the UK, the majority are performed as day-case procedures. Indications • Coronary artery disease: diagnostic (assessment of coronary vessels and graft pa- tency); therapeutic (angioplasty, stent insertion), fi g 3.18b. • Valvular disease: diagnostic (pressures indicate severity); therapeutic valvuloplas- ty (if the patient is too ill or declines valve surgery). • Congenital heart disease: diagnostic (assessment of severity of lesions by meas- uring pressures and saturations); therapeutic (balloon dilatation or septostomy). • Other: cardiomyopathy; pericardial disease; endomyocardial biopsy. Pre-procedure checks • Brief history/examination; NB: peripheral pulses, bruits, aneurysms. • Investigations: FBC, U&E, LFT, clotting screen, CXR, ECG. • Consent for procedure, including possible extra procedures, eg consent for angio- plasty if planning to do angiography as you may fi nd a lesion that needs stenting. Explain reason for procedure and possible
