Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


including possible extra procedures, eg consent for angio- plasty if planning to do angiography as you may fi nd a lesion that needs stenting. Explain reason for procedure and possible complications. • IV access, ideally in the left hand. • Patient should be nil by mouth (NBM) from 6h before the procedure. • Patients should take all their morning drugs (and pre-medication if needed)—but withhold oral hypoglycaemics. Post-procedure checks • Pulse, BP, arterial puncture site (for bruising or swelling), foot pulses. • Investigations: FBC and clotting (if suspected blood loss), ECG. Complications • Haemorrhage: apply fi rm pressure over puncture site. If you suspect a false aneu- rysm, ultrasound the swelling and consider surgical repair. Haematomas are high risk for infections. • Contrast reaction: this is usually mild with modern contrast agents. • Loss of peripheral pulse: may be due to dissection, thrombosis, or arterial spasm. Occurs in <1% of brachial catheterizations. Rare with femoral catheterization. • Angina: may occur during or after cardiac catheterization. Usually responds to sublingual GTN; if not, give analgesia and IV nitrates. • Arrhythmias: usually transient. Manage along standard lines. • Pericardial eff usion: suspect if unexplained continued chest pain. May need drain depending on severity and haemodynamic status. • Pericardial tamponade: rare, but should be suspected if the patient becomes hypo- tensive and anuric.  Urgent pericardial drain. • Infection: post-catheter pyrexia is usually due to a contrast reaction. If it persists for >24h, take blood cultures before giving antibiotics. Mortality <1 in 1000 patients, in most centres. Intracardiac electrophysiology This catheter technique can determine types and origins of arrhythmias, and locate and ablate problem areas, eg aberrant pathways in WPW or arrhythmogenic foci. Arrhythmias may be induced, and the eff ectiveness of control by drugs assessed. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 111122 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC (a) 113 (b) (c) Fig 3.18 (a) Coronary artery anatomy. (b) and (c) Images from angiography. (b) shows stenosis of the left anterior descending artery (LAD). In (c), the same patient has had their LAD stented, al- lowing contrast to fl ow freely through to the distal vessel. The stenting is a type of angioplasty (a procedure to widen the lumen of a blood vessel); in the context of coronary arteries, it is called PCI (percutaneous coronary intervention). PPCI (primary PCI) is PCI performed acutely for a patient with acute coronary syndrome (ACS), see p120. Images (b) and (c) reproduced from
