Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


it is called PCI (percutaneous coronary intervention). PPCI (primary PCI) is PCI performed acutely for a patient with acute coronary syndrome (ACS), see p120. Images (b) and (c) reproduced from Ramrakha et al., Oxford Handbook of Cardiology, 2012, with permis- sion from Oxford University Press. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 111133 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC 114 Cardiovascular drugs Antiplatelet drugs Aspirin irreversibly acetylates cyclo-oxygenase, preventing pro- duction of thromboxane A2, thereby inhibiting platelet aggregation. Used in low dose (eg 75mg/24h PO) for secondary prevention following MI, TIA/stroke, and for patients with angina or peripheral vascular disease. May have a role in primary prevention.7 ADP receptor antagonists (eg clopidogrel, prasugrel, ticagrelor) also block platelet aggregation, but may cause less gastric irritation. They have a role if truly intoler- ant of aspirin; with aspirin after coronary stent insertion; and in acute coronary syndrome. Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonists (eg tirofi ban) have a role in unstable angina/MI.8 Anticoagulants See p350. Direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs, previously NOACs), eg Xa inhibitors (eg apixaban) and direct thrombin inhibitors (dabigatran), are increas- ingly replacing warfarin9 for treatment of AF and clots, see p350. Warfarin remains the anticoagulant of choice for mechanical valves. Anticoagulants used in ACS include treatment dose LMWH, fondaparinux (Xa inhibitor), & bivalirudin (thrombin inhibitor). -blockers Block -adrenoceptors, thus antagonizing the sympathetic nervous system. Blocking 1-receptors is negatively inotropic and chronotropic; blocking 2-receptors induces peripheral vasoconst riction and bronchoconstriction. Drugs vary in their 1/2 selecti vity (eg propranolol is non-selective, and bisoprolol relative- ly 1 selective), but this does not seem to alter their clinical effi cacy. Uses: Angina, hypertension, antid ysrhythmic, post MI (mortality), heart failure (with caution). CI: Severe asthma/COPD, heart block. SES: Lethargy, erectile dysfunction, joie de vivre, nightmares, headache. ACE inhibitors These are used in hypertension (HT), heart failure, and post-MI. First dose HT is a concern in patients with severe CCF and malignant HT. In CCF patients, reduce diuretic dose initially and use long-acting ACE-i. Monitor U&E when starting or raising ACE-i dose, a creatinine rise of >20% is concerning. If the patient starts ACE-i prior to discharge, ask the GP to check U&E in 1–2 weeks. If renal function deteriorates markedly, consider investigating for renal artery stenosis. The risk to the kidneys is greater when the patient is unwell. Hold in AKI and hyperkalaemia; avoid starting if the patient is dehydrated. SES: Include dry cough and urticaria. Diuretics • Loop diuretics (eg furosemide) are
