Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


after 12h, then 125mcg (if elderly) to 250mcg/d PO OD (62.5mcg/d is almost never enough). IV dose: 0.75–1mg in 0.9% NaCl over 2h. Toxicity risk if: K+, Mg2+, or Ca2+. t½ ≈ 36h. If on digoxin, use less energy in cardioversion (start at 5J). If on amiodarone, halve the dose of digoxin. SES: Any arrhythmia (supraventr icular tachycardia with AV block is suggestive), nausea, appetite, yellow vision, confusion, gynaecomastia. If toxicity is suspected, do an ECG (fi g 3.19), digoxin levels, and check K+, Mg2+, and Ca2+. If toxicity is confi rmed, stop digoxin, correct electrolyte imbalances, treat arrhyt hmias, and consider IV DigiFab® (p842). CIS: HCM; WPW syndrome (p133). Fig 3.19 This ECG shows the classic ‘reverse tick’ of digoxin toxicity: downsloping ST wave with rapid upstroke back to isoelec- tric line. The bradycardia is also suggestive of digoxin toxicity. Sodium channel blockers Class I anti-arrhythmics. Procainamide (1a) and lido- caine (1b) can be used to terminate VT. NB QT interval may be prolonged. Flecainide (1c) is useful for AF cardioversion in patients without contraindications, and for ar- rhythmia prophylaxis in patients with WPW or troublesome paroxysmal AF. CIS: Heart failure, IHD, valve disease, and heart block. Amiodarone A class III anti-arrhythmic. Amiodarone prolongs the cardiac action potential, reducing the potential for tachyarrhythmias. Used in both supra-ventric- ular and ventricular tachycardias, including during cardiac arrest. Broad range of side eff ects incl. thyroid disease, liver disease, pulmonary fi brosis and peripheral neuropathy. Monitor TFTs and LFTs every 6 months. Ivabradine Blocks the pacemaker ‘funny current’, slowing pulse rate without sig- nifi cantly dropping blood pressure. Used in angina, heart failure, and (off -licence) in autonomic tachycardia syndromes. CIS: Acute MI, bradycardia, long QT syndrome, shock. Many drug interactions, including with calcium antagonists. Statins Statins (eg simvastatin, p690) inhibit the enzyme HMG-COA reductase, which causes de novo synthesis of cholesterol in the liver. This increases LDL receptor ex- pression by hepatocytes leading to circulating LDL cholesterol. More eff ective if given at night, but optimum dose and target plasma cholesterol are unknown. SES: Muscle aches, abdominal discomfort, transaminases (eg ALT), CK, myositis, rarely rhabdo myolysis (more common if used with fi brates). Statins are generally well tol- erated. There are currently ~3 million people taking statins in England, which saves ~10 000 lives a year. See also hyperlipidaemia, pp690–1, fi g 14.13. Anti-anginal drugs p116. Antihypertensives p140. Drugs that slow
