Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


• Consider ACE inhibitors, eg if diabetic. PRN symptom relief: Glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) spray or sublingual tabs. Advise the pa- tient to repeat the dose if the pain has not gone after 5min and to call an ambulance if the pain is still present 5min after the second dose. SE: headaches, BP. Anti-anginal medication: (p114) First line: -blocker and/or calcium channel blocker (do not combine -blockers with non-dihydropyridine calcium antagonists). If these fail to control symptoms or are not tolerated, trial other agents. • -blockers: eg atenolol 50mg BD or bisoprolol 5–10mg OD. • Calcium antagonists: amlodipine—start at 5mg OD; diltiazem—dose depends on formulation. • Long-acting nitrates: eg isosorbide mononitrate—starting regimen depends on formulation. Alternatives: GTN skin patches. SES: headaches, BP. • Ivabradine: reduces heart rate with minimal impact on BP. Patient must be in sinus rhythm. Start with 5mg BD (2.5mg in elderly). • Ranolazine: inhibits late Na+ current. Start at 375mg BD. Caution if heart failure, elderly, weight <60kg or prolonged QT interval. • Nicorandil: a K+ channel activator. Start with 5–10mg BD. CI: acute pulmonary oede- ma, severe hypotension, hypovolaemia, LV failure. Revascularization: Considered when optimal medical therapy proves inadequate. • Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI): (p112) a balloon is infl ated inside the stenosed vessel, opening the lumen. A stent is usually inserted to reduce the risk of re-stenosis. Dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT; usually aspirin and clopidogel) is recommended for at least 12 months after stent insertion to reduce the risk of in- stent thrombosis. Specialist advice should be sought regarding antiplatelets if the patient has a high bleeding risk or requires surgery. • CABG: (p123) compared to PCI, patients undergoing CABG are less likely to need re- peat revascularization and those with multivessel disease can expect better out- comes. However, CABG is open heart surgery and so recovery is slower and the patient is left with two large wounds (sternal and vein harvesting). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 111166 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC Investigating patients with ? stable angina 117 Investigations for ischaemic heart disease (IHD) include: • Exercise ECG—assess for ischaemic ECG changes. • Angiography—either using cardiac CT with contrast, or transcatheter angiogra- phy (more invasive but can be combined with stenting, p112). • Functional imaging (see p108): myocardial perfusion scintigraphy, stress echo (echo whilst undergoing exercise or receiving dobutamine), cardiac MRI. NICE recommend the following investigations when considering stable angina.13 Typical angina in a patient with previously proven
