Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


a widened mediastinum. Don’t routinely delay treatment whilst waiting for a CXR. Blood: FBC, U&E, glucose, lipids, cardiac enzymes. Cardiac enzymes: (See BOX ’Troponin‘.) Cardiac troponin levels (T and I) are the most sensitive and spe- cifi c markers of myocardial necrosis. Diff erent hospitals use diff erent assays: check the required timing of troponin blood samples where you work (eg two samples 3h apart). Other cardiac enzymes (see fi g 3.22) are sensitive but less specifi c; their role in ACS diagnosis is decreasing as troponin testing improves. Echo: Regional wall abnormalities. Diff erential diagnosis (p94.) Stable angina, pericarditis, myocarditis, Takotsubo cardiomyopathy (p145), aortic dissection (p655), PE, oesophageal refl ux/spasm, pneu- mothorax, musculoskeletal pain, pancreatitis. Management See p120, pp798–801. Mortality 50% of deaths occur within 2h of onset of symptoms. Up to 7% die before discharge. Worse prognosis if: elderly, LV failure, and ST changes. 16 __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 111188 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC 119 Fig 3.21 Sequential ECG changes following acute MI. Fig 3.22 Enzyme changes following acute MI. Increasingly, high-sensitivity troponins are used alone for routine investigation of ACS. Troponin Troponins are proteins involved in cardiac and skeletal muscle contraction (fi g 3.23). When myocardial cells are damaged, troponins are released and en- ter the bloodstream. The levels of troponin in the blood can therefore help with diagnosing myocardial damage. Troponins I and T are most specifi c to the heart. Troponin levels are most commonly measured when ACS is suspected. In this circumstance, one would expect troponin levels to rise in the hours following the insult (fi g 3.22). Troponin levels can be high with other causes of myocardial dam- age, for example myocarditis, pericarditis, and ventricular strain. With these con- ditions, the troponin levels are likely to change little hour by hour as the insults are ongoing. Discrete episodes of tachyarrhythmias may cause troponin rises similar to in ACS. Troponin levels can also be raised iatrogenically, eg following CPR, DC cardioversion, ablation therapy. A troponin rise may have a non-cardiac aetiology. This can be indirectly related to the heart, eg a massive PE causing right ventricular strain, or have no clear car- diac connection, eg subarachnoid haemorrhage, burns, or sepsis. A common cause of consistently elevated troponin is renal failure. Hence, when measuring troponin, change in level is often more important than the level itself. Fig 3.23 Diagram of myocardial contraction unit. The troponin complex controls when
