Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


is renal failure. Hence, when measuring troponin, change in level is often more important than the level itself. Fig 3.23 Diagram of myocardial contraction unit. The troponin complex controls when the myo- sin heads can bind to the actin chain, shortening the muscle fi bre. Reproduced from Barnard et al., Cardiac Anaesthesia, 2010, with permission from Oxford University Press. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 111199 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC 120 Management of ACS ACS management depends on whether the ACS is ‘ST elevated’ or not: 1 ST elevated myocardial infarction (STEMI): this category includes ACS with ST el- evation on ECG (fi g 3.9) but also ACS with new LBBB (fi g 3.7); and posterior MIs (fi g 3.24) where ST elevation may only be seen with extra leads (V7–V9). Urgent revascularization is essential. p796. 2 ACS without ST elevation: serial troponins are needed to diff erentiate non-ST el- evated MIs (NSTEMIs) (trop rise) from unstable angina (no trop rise). p798. After the immediate actions described on pp796–9, treatment of ACS17 focuses on managing symptoms, secondary prevention of further cardiovascular disease, revas- cularization (if not already undertaken), and addressing complications. Symptom control Manage chest pain with PRN GTN and opiates. If this proves insuffi cient, consider a GTN infusion (monitor BP, omit if recent sildenafi l use). If pain is deteriorating, seek senior help. Manage symptomatic heart failure, p136. Modify risk factors • Patients should be strongly advised and helped to stop smoking (p93). • Identify and treat diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and hyperlipidaemia. • Advise a diet high in oily fi sh, fruit, vegetables, & fi bre, and low in saturated fats. • Encourage daily exercise. Refer to a cardiac rehab programme. • Mental health: fl ag to the patient’s GP if depression or anxiety are present—these are independently associated with poor cardiovascular outcomes. Optimize cardioprotective medications • Antiplatelets: aspirin (75mg OD) and a second antiplatelet agent (eg clopidogrel) for at least 12 months to vascular events (eg MI, stroke). Consider adding a PPI (eg lansoprazole) for gastric protection. • Anticoagulate, eg with fondaparinux, until discharge. • -blockade reduces myocardial oxygen demand. Start low and increase slowly, monitoring pulse and BP. If contraindicated, consider verapamil or diltiazem. • ACE-i in patients with LV dysfunction, hypertension, or diabetes unless not tolerated (consider ARB). Titrate up slowly, monitoring renal function. • High-dose statin, eg atorvastatin 80mg. • Do an echo to assess LV function. Eplerenone improves
