Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


anterior MI, consider anticoagulation with warfarin for 3 months. Cardiac tamponade (p802) Presents with low cardiac output, pulsus paradoxus, Kussmaul’s sign,3 muffl ed heart sounds. Diagnosis: echo. Treatment: pericardial aspi- ration (provides temporary relief, see p773 for technique), surgery. Mitral regurgitation May be mild (minor papillary muscle dysfunction) or severe (chordal or papillary muscle rupture secondary to ischaemia). Presentation: pulmo- nary oedema. Treat LVF (p800) and consider valve replacement. Ventricular septal defect Presents with pansystolic murmur, JVP, cardiac failure. Diagnosis: echo. Treatment: surgery. 50% mortality in fi rst week. Late malignant ventricular arrhythmias Occur 1–3wks post-MI and are the cardi- ologist’s nightmare. Avoid hypokalaemia, the most easily avoidable cause. Consider 24h ECG monitoring prior to discharge if large MI. Dressler’s syndrome (p698) Recurrent pericarditis, pleural eff usions, fever, anae- mia, and ESR 1–3wks post-MI. Treatment: consider NSAIDS; steroids if severe. Left ventricular aneurysm This occurs late (4–6wks post-MI), and presents with LVF, angina, recurrent VT, or systemic embolism. ECG: persistent ST-segment elevation. Treatment: anticoagulate, consider excision. 3 JVP rises during inspiration. Adolf Kussmaul was a prominent 19th-century physician and the fi rst to attempt gastroscopy. Inspired by a sword swallower he passed a rigid tube into the stomach, however light technology was limited and it was not until years later that gastroscopists could visualize the stomach. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 112222 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC Coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) 123 CABG is performed in left main stem disease; multi-vessel disease; multiple se- vere stenoses; patients unsuitable for angioplasty; failed angioplasty; refractory angina. Indications for CABG—to improve survival: • Left main stem disease. • Triple-vessel disease involving proximal part of the left anterior descending. Indications for CABG—to relieve symptoms: • Angina unresponsive to drugs. • Unstable angina (sometimes). • If angioplasty is unsuccessful. NB: when CABG and percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI, eg angioplasty) are both clinically valid options, NICE recommends that the availability of new stent technology should push the decision towards PCI. In practice, patients with single- vessel coronary artery disease and normal LV function usually undergo PCI, and those with triple-vessel disease and abnormal LV function more often undergo CABG. Compared with PCI, CABG results in longer recovery time and length of inpatient stay. Recent RCTs indicate that early procedural mortality rates and 5-year survival rates are similar after PCI and CABG. Compared with PCI, CABG probably provides more complete long-term relief of angina in patients, and less repeated revascu- larization.
