Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


death. Syncope occuring during exercise is always concerning; the patient may have a condition predisposing them to sudden cardiac death (eg long QT syndrome). Tests FBC, U&E, glucose, Ca2+, Mg2+, TSH, ECG: Look for signs of IHD, AF, short PR interval (WPW syndrome), long QT interval (metabolic imbalance, drugs, congenital), U waves (hypokalaemia). 24h ECG monitoring or other continuous ECG monitoring (see BOX ‘Continuous ECG monitoring’). Echo to look for structural heart disease, eg mitral stenosis, HCM. Provocation tests: exercise ECG, cardiac catheterization ± electro- physiological studies may be needed. Narrow complex tachycardias: See pp806–7, 126. Atrial fi brillation and fl utter: See pp806–7, 130. Broad complex tachycardias: See pp804–5, 128. Bradycardia: See p808 (causes and management of acute bradycardia) and p98 (heart block). Intermittent, self-resolving bradycardic episodes can cause signifi cant problems (eg recurrent syncope). Continuous ECG monitoring (BOX ‘Continuous ECG monitoring’) will be needed to assist the diagnosis ±specialist tests (eg tilt table testing for refl ex syncope). Seek out reversible causes, eg hypothyroidism or medica- tions such as -blockers. In some cases, no reversible cause is found and the inter- mittent bradycardia is suffi ciently dangerous to warrant a permanent pacemaker (p132). See BOX, ‘Sick sinus syndrome’. Management Some arrhythmias can be managed conservatively, eg by reducing alcohol intake. Many arrhythmias respond to medical management with regular tablets or a ‘pill in the pocket’. Interventional management may include pacemakers (p132), ablation (eg of accessory pathways or arrhythmogenic foci), or implantable cardioverter defi brillators (ICDs), eg in patients with ventricular arrhythmias post-MI and in those with congenital arrhythmogenic conditions (p133). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 112244 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC Continuous ECG monitoring 125 A simple 12-lead ECG only gives a snapshot of the heart’s electrical activities. Many disorders, particularly the arrhythmias, come and go and so may be missed at the time of the ECG recording. If you feel you are missing a paroxysmal arrhythmia, there are many ways of recording the electrical activity over a longer period: Telemetry: An inpatient wears ECG leads and the signals are shown on screens being watched by staff . Thus, if a dangerous arrhythmia occurs, help is immedi- ately available. This is very resource intensive so reserved for those at high risk of dangerous arrhythmias, eg immediately post-STEMI. Exercise ECGs: The patient exercises according to a standardized protocol (eg Bruce on a treadmill) and the BP and ECG are monitored, looking for ischaemic changes,
