Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


arrhythmias, eg immediately post-STEMI. Exercise ECGs: The patient exercises according to a standardized protocol (eg Bruce on a treadmill) and the BP and ECG are monitored, looking for ischaemic changes, arrhythmias, and features suggestive of arrhythmia risk, such as delta waves. Holter monitors: The patient wears an ECG monitor which records their rhythm for 24h–7d whilst they go about their normal life, this is later analysed. These can also be used to pick up ST changes suggestive of ischaemia. Loop recorders: These record only when activated by the patient— they cleverly save a small amount of ECG data before the event—use- ful if the arrhythmia causes loss of consciousness: the patient can press the button when they wake up. Loop recorders may be im- planted just under the skin (eg Re- veal® or the newer, injectable LINQ device), and are especially useful in patients with infrequent episodes as they can continually monitor for months or years awaiting an event (Fig 3.25). Fig 3.25 This is a recording from a loop recorder, each Pacemakers and ICDs: These re- line follows on from the one above. This tracing was cord details of cardiac electrical recorded at the time of a syncopal episode, it shows activity and device activity. This cardiac slowing then a 15sec pause: quite long enough information can be useful for es- to cause syncope! But not long enough to arrange a tablishing an arrhythmic origin for standard ECG, even if the patient were in hospital. symptoms. Reproduced from Camm et al., ESC Textbook of Cardio- vascular Medicine, 2009, with permission from Oxford University Press. Sick sinus syndrome Sick sinus syndrome is usually caused by sinus node fi brosis, typically in elderly patients. The sinus node becomes dysfunctional, in some cases slowing to the point of sinus bradycardia or sinus pauses, in others generating tachyarrhythmias such as atrial fi brillation and atrial tachycardia. Symptoms: Syncope and pre-syncope, light-headedness, palpitations, breathless- ness. Management: • Thromboembolism prophylaxis if episodes of AF are detected. • Permanent pacemakers for patients with symptomatic bradycardia or sinus pauses. Some patients develop a ‘tachy brady syndrome’, suff ering from alternating tachycardic and bradycardic rhythms. This can prove diffi cult to treat medically as treating one circumstance (eg tachycardia) increases the risk from the other. Pacing for bradycardic episodes in combination with rate-slowing medications for tachycardic episodes may be required if the patient is symptomatic or unstable. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb
