Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


tachycardia) increases the risk from the other. Pacing for bradycardic episodes in combination with rate-slowing medications for tachycardic episodes may be required if the patient is symptomatic or unstable. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 112255 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC 126 Narrow complex tachycardia Defi nition ECG shows rate of >100bpm and QRS complex duration of <120ms. Narrow QRS complexes occur when the ventricles are depolarized via the normal conduction pathways (fi g 3.26). Diff erential diagnosis Regular narrow complex tachycardias: See fi g 3.27. Irregular narrow complex tachycardias: • Normal variant: sinus arrhythmia (rate changes with inspiration/expiration); sinus rhythm with frequent ectopic beats. • Atrial fi brillation (AF): p131, fi g 3.35. • Atrial fl utter with variable block: eg P–P–P–QRS–P–P–QRS (3:1 block then 2:1 block). The atrial rhythm is regular but the ventricular rhythm (hence pulse) is irregular. • Multifocal atrial tachycardia: like focal atrial tachycardia but there are multiple groups of atrial cells taking it in turns to initiate a cardiac cycle. P-wave morphol- ogy and P-P intervals vary. Usually associated with COPD. Principles of management See p807. If the patient is compromised, use DC cardioversion (p770). • Identify and treat the underlying rhythm: eg treating sinus tachycardia secondary to dehydration with IV fl uids; treating multifocal sinus tachycardia secondary to COPD by correcting hypoxia and hypercapnia; treating focal atrial tachycardia sec- ondary to digoxin toxicity with digoxin-specifi c antibody fragments; treating AVRT secondary to WPW with fl ecainide, propafenone, or amiodarone; for atrial fi brilla- tion (AF) and fl utter see p130. • If AVNRT or AVRT are suspected, consider transiently blocking the AVN. This should break the circuit of an atrio-ventricular re-entry rhythm, allowing sinus rhythm to re-establish. If the underlying rhythm is actually atrial in origin (eg fl utter or atrial tachycardia), AVN blockade will not treat the rhythm but the paused ventricular activity will unmask the atrial rhythm (fi g 3.28), aiding diagnosis and management. AVN blockade can be achieved by: 1 Vagal manoeuvres: carotid sinus massage, Valsalva manoeuvre (eg blowing into a syringe). 2 IV adenosine: see p806. • In some cases, narrow complex tachyarrhythmias cause symptomatic episodes of suffi cient severity and frequency to warrant more invasive treatment, eg ablation therapy for accessory pathways. Fig 3.28 This patient was given adenosine for tachycardia thought to be due to AVRT or AVNRT. The adenosine has slowed the ventricular rate, revealing fl utter waves (sawtooth appearance), disproving an
