Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


This patient was given adenosine for tachycardia thought to be due to AVRT or AVNRT. The adenosine has slowed the ventricular rate, revealing fl utter waves (sawtooth appearance), disproving an AVRT/AVNRT diagnosis. Image courtesy of Dr Ed Burns, www.lifeinthefastlane.com. Holiday heart syndrome Binge drinking in a person without any clinical evidence of heart disease may result in acute cardiac rhythm and/or conduction disturbances, which is called holiday heart syndrome (note that recreational use of marijuana may have similar eff ects). The most common rhythm disorders are supraventricular tachyarrhyth- mia and AF (consider this diagnosis in patients without structural heart disease who present with new-onset AF). The prognosis is excellent, especially in young patients without structural heart disease. As holiday heart syndrome resolves rapidly by abstinence from alcohol use, advise all patients against the excessive use of alcohol in future. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 112266 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC Normal conduction 127 Normal conduction: initiated by the sinoatrial node (SAN), electrical ac- SAN tivity spreads around the atria. The atrioventricular node (AVN) receives this activity, pauses, then passes it on, down the bundle of His which AVN MV splits into left and right bundle branches. These cause depolariza- TV His bundle t frio on m o bf ot th te o mve (n at pri ec xu )l a tor tm oy po (c oa ur td fl iu om w R buig nh dt le L b be u raf nt nd cle h tracts). branch Left anterior and posterior hemi fascicle Fig 3.26 Normal conduction. Regular rhythm tachycardia See fi g 3.27. A. Sinus tachycardia: Conduction occurs as per fi g 3.26 but impulses A B are initiated at a high frequency. Causes include infection, pain, ex- C ercise, anxiety, dehydration, bleed, E systemic vasodilation (eg in sepsis), drugs (caff eine, nicotine, salbuta- mol), anaemia, fever, PE, hyperthy- D F roidism, pregnancy, CO2 retention, autonomic neuropathy (eg inappro- H priate sinus tachycardia). + B. Focal atrial tachycardia: A G group of atrial cells act as a pace- maker, out-pacing the SAN. P-wave morphology (shape) is diff erent to Fig 3.27 Regular tachycardias. sinus. C. Atrial fl utter: Electrical activity circles the atria 300 times per minute, giving a ‘sawtooth’ baseline, see fi g 3.35. The AVN passes some of these impulses on, result- ing in ventricular rates that are factors of 300 (150, 100, 75). D. Atrioventricular re-entry tachycardia: (AVRT) An accessory
