Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


g 3.35. The AVN passes some of these impulses on, result- ing in ventricular rates that are factors of 300 (150, 100, 75). D. Atrioventricular re-entry tachycardia: (AVRT) An accessory pathway (eg in Wolff -Parkinson-White (WPW), p133) allows electrical activity from the ventricles to pass to the resting atrial myocytes, creating a circuit: atria–AVN–ventricles– accessory pathway–atria. This direction is called ‘orthodromic’ conduction and results in narrow QRS complexes as ventricular depolarization is triggered via the bundles of His. Conduction in the other direction is called ‘antidromic’ and results in broad QRS complexes. E. Atrioventricular nodal re-entry tachycardia: (AVNRT) Circuits form within the AVN, causing narrow complex tachycardias. This is very common. F. Junctional tachycardia: Cells in the AVN become the pacemaker, giving nar- row QRS complexes as impulses reach the ventricles through the normal routes; P waves may be inverted and late. G. Bundle branch block: Any of the above conditions can result in broad complex tachycardias if there is bundle branch block (see p100). H. Ventricular tachycardia: (VT) This can result from circuits, similar to atrial fl utter, or from focuses of rapidly-fi ring cells. The QRS is broad. When a circuit is in action and its plane rotates, the ECG shows broad complex tachycardia with regularly increasing and decreasing amplitudes; this is called torsades de pointes. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 112277 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC 128 Broad complex tachycardia Defi nition ECG shows rate of >100 and QRS complexes >120ms. If no clear QRS com- plexes, it is VF or asystole (or problems with the ECG machine or stickers). Principles of management If the patient is unstable or you are uncertain of what to do, get help fast—the patient may be periarrest (p804). • Identify the underlying rhythm and treat accordingly. • If in doubt, treat as ventricular tachycardia (VT)—the commonest cause. • Giving AVN blocking agents to treat SVT with aberrancy when the patient is in VT can cause dangerous haemodynamic instability. Treating for VT when the patient is actually in SVT has less potential for deterioration. • If WPW is suspected, avoid drugs that slow AV conduction—see p114. Diff erential diagnosis • Ventricular fi brillation—chaotic, no pattern, fi g 3.29. • Ventricular tachycardia (VT), fi gs 3.12, 3.30. • Torsade de pointes (polymorphic VT)—VT with varying axis (see fi g 3.31), may look like VF. QT interval is a predisposing factor. • Any cause of narrow complex tachycardias (p126)
