Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


a VT complex creating an unusual complex. Fig 3.33 A capture beat (*)—a normal QRS amongst runs of VT. This would not be expected if the QRS breadth were down to bundle branch block or metabolic causes. Fig 3.34 Bigeminy—a normal QRS is followed by a ventricular ectopic beat * then a compensatory pause, this pattern then repeats. The ectopic beats have the same morphology as each other so probably all share an origin. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 112299 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC 130 Atrial fi brillation (AF) and fl utter AF25 is a chaotic, irregular atrial rhythm at 300–600bpm (fi g 3.35); the AV node re- sponds inter mittently, hence an irregular ventricular rhythm. Cardiac output drops by 10–20% as the ventricles aren’t primed reliably by the atria. AF is common in the el- derly (≤9%). The main risk is embolic stroke. Warfarin reduces this to 1%/yr from 4%. So, do an ECG on everyone with an irregular pulse (±24h ECG if dizzy, faints, palpita- tions, etc.). If AF started more than 48h ago, intracardiac clots may have formed, ne- cessitating anticoagulation prior to cardioversion. see BOX ‘Anticoagulation and AF’. Causes Heart failure; hypertension; IHD (seen in 22% MI patients); 26 PE; mitral valve disease; pneumonia; hyperthyroidism; caff eine; alcohol; post-op; K+; Mg2+. Rare causes: Cardiom yopathy; constrictive pericarditis; sick sinus syndrome; lung cancer; endo carditis; haemochromatosis; sarcoid. ‘Lone’ AF means no cause found. Symptoms May be asymptomatic or cause chest pain, palpitations, dyspn oea, or faintness. Signs Irregularly irregular pulse, the apical pulse rate is greater than the radial rate, and the 1st heart sound is of variable intensity; signs of LVF (p800). Examine the whole patient: AF is often associated with non-cardiac disease. Tests ECG shows absent P waves, irregular QRS complexes, fi g 3.35. Blood tests: U&E, cardiac enzymes, thyroid function tests. Echo to look for left atrial enlarge ment, mitral valve disease, poor LV function, and other structural abnormalities. Managing acute AF • If the patient has adverse signs (shock, myocardial ischaemia (chest pain or ECG changes), syncope, heart failure): ABCDE, get senior input DC cardioversion (syn- chronized shock, start at 120–150J) ± amiodarone if unsuccessful (p807); do not delay treatment in order to start anticoagulation. • If the patient is stable & AF started <48h ago: rate or rhythm control may be tried. For rhythm control, DC cardiovert or give fl ecainide (CI: structural heart disease, IHD)
