Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


the patient is stable & AF started <48h ago: rate or rhythm control may be tried. For rhythm control, DC cardiovert or give fl ecainide (CI: structural heart disease, IHD) or amiodarone. Start heparin in case cardioversion is delayed (see BOX ‘Anti- coagulation and AF’). • If the patient is stable & AF started >48h ago or unclear time of onset: rate control (eg with bisoprolol or diltiazem). If rhythm control is chosen, the patient must be anticoagulated for >3wks fi rst. • Correct electrolyte imbalances (K+, Mg2+, Ca2+);  associated illnesses (eg MI, pneu- monia); and consider anticoagulation (see BOX ‘Anticoagulation and AF’). Managing chronic AF The main goals are rate control and anticoagulation. Rate control is at least as good as rhythm control, 27 but rhythm control may be appropriate if • symptomatic or CCF • younger • presenting for 1st time with lone AF • AF from a corrected precipitant (eg U&E). Anticoagulation: See BOX ‘Anticoagulation and AF’. Rate control: -blocker or rate-limiting Ca2+ blocker are 1st choice. If this fails, add digoxin (p115), then consider amiodarone. Digoxin as monotherapy in chronic AF is only acceptable in sedentary patients. Do not give -blockers with verapamil. Aim for heart rate <90bpm at rest and 200 minus age (yrs) bpm on exertion. Avoid getting fi xated on a target heart rate. Rhythm control: Elective DC cardioversion: do echo fi rst to check for intracardiac thrombi. If there is risk of cardioversion failure (past failure, or past recurrence) give amiodarone for 4wks before the procedure and 12 months after. Elective phar- macological cardioversion: fl ecainide is 1st choice (CI if structural heart disease, eg scar tissue from MI: use IV amiodarone instead). In refractory cases, AVN ablation with pacing, pulmonary vein ablation, or the maze procedure may be considered.28 Paroxysmal AF: ‘Pill in the pocket’ (eg sotalol or fl ecainide PRN) may be tried if: infre- q uent AF, BP >100mmHg systolic, no past LV dysfunction. Anticoagulate (See BOX ‘Anticoagulation and AF’). Consider ablation if symptomatic or frequent episodes. Atrial fl utter See pp130–1, fi g 3.35. Treatment: Similar to AF regarding rate and rhythm control and the need for anticoagulation.29 DC cardioversion is preferred to pharmacological cardioversion; start with 70–120J. IV amiodarone may be needed if rate control is proving diffi cult. Recurrence rates are high so radiofrequency ablation is often recommended for long-term management. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 113300 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066
