Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


70–120J. IV amiodarone may be needed if rate control is proving diffi cult. Recurrence rates are high so radiofrequency ablation is often recommended for long-term management. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 113300 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC Anticoagulation and AF 131 Acute AF: Use heparin until a full risk assessment for emboli (see below) is made— eg AF started <48h ago and elective cardioversion is being planned. If >48h, ensure ≥3wks of therapeutic anticoagulation before elective cardiov ersion; NB trans-oe- sophageal-guided cardioversion is an option if urgent cardioversion is required. Use a DOAC (eg apixaban) or warfarin (target INR 2–3) if high risk of emboli (past ischaemic stroke, TIA, or emboli; 75yrs with BP, DM; coronary or peripheral arte- rial disease; evidence of valve disease or LV function/CCF—only do echo if unsure). 30 Use no anticoagulation if stable sinus rhythm has been restored, no risk factors for emboli, and AF recurrence unlikely (ie no failed cardioversions, no structural heart disease, no previous recurrences, no sustained AF for >1yr). Chronic AF: Chronic AF may be paroxysmal (terminates in <7d but may recur), persistent (lasts >7d), or permanent (long-term, continuous AF, sinus rhythm not achievable despite treatment). In all cases, the need for anticoagulation should be assessed using the CHA2DS2-VASc score to assess embolic stroke risk (consider anti- coagulation if score  >0,  >1), and balancing this against the risks of anticoagula- tion to the patient, assessed with the HAS-BLED score. Long-term anticoagulation should be with a DOAC (see p350) or warfarin. CHA2DS2-VASc—Congestive cardiac failure (1 point), Hypertension (1), Age 65–74y (1), Age >74y (2), Diabetes (1), previous Stroke/TIA/thromboembolism (2), Vascular disease (1), Sex Category (1 if female). A score of 2 = an annual stroke risk of 2.2%. Online calculators can be helpful, eg www.mdcalc.com. HAS-BLED—1 point for each of: • labile INR • age >65 • use of medications that can predispose to bleeding (eg NSAIDs, anti-platelets) • alcohol abuse • uncontrolled hypertension • history of, or predisposition to, major bleeding • renal disease • liver disease • stroke history. Pre-excited AF In pre-excited AF, accessory pathways capable of conducting at rapid rates (eg sometimes in WPW syndrome) pass erratic electrical activity from the atria to the ventricles, unfi ltered by the AVN. ECGs will show irregular, broad QRS complexes at >200bpm. Ventricles cannot sustain this rate for long; the patient is at high risk of VT and VF. (a) (b) (c) QRS QRS
