Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


and for pneumothorax on CXR; check pacemaker func- tion. During 1st week, inspect for wound haematoma or dehiscence. Other problems: lead fracture or dislodgement; pacemaker interference (eg from patient’s muscles); infected device. The battery needs changing every 5–10 years. For driving rules see p158. Pacemaker letter codes These enable pacemaker identifi cation (min is 3 letters): • 1st letter the chamber paced (A=atria, V=ventricles, D=dual chamber). • 2nd letter the chamber sensed (A=atria, V=ventricles, D=dual chamber, O=none). • 3rd letter the pacemaker response (T=triggered, I=inhibited, D=dual). • 4th letter (R=rate modulation, P=programmable, M=multiprogrammable). • 5th letter (P means that in tachyc ardia the pacemaker will pace the patient. S means that in tachycardia the pacem aker shocks the patient. D=dual ability to pace and shock. O=neither of these). Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) Improves the synchronization of cardi- ac contraction and reduces mortality31 in people with symptomatic heart failure who have an ejection fraction <35% and a QRS duration >120ms.32 It involves biventricular pacing (both septal and lateral walls of the LV) and, if required, also an atrial lead. It may be combined with a defi brillator (CRT-D). ECG of paced rhythms (fi g 3.13 and fi g 3.36). Pacemaker input appears as a vertical ‘spike’ on the ECG. This spike can be very small with modern bipolar pacing systems. Ventricular pacing usually has a broad QRS morphology (similar to LBBB). Systems are usually programmed ‘on demand’ so will only pace when necessary. Modern systems are generally very reliable but pacing spikes with no capture afterwards suggests a problem. Programming of devices is complicated so seek help early if concerned. Many pacemakers store intracardiac electrograms which can be accessed to cor- relate rhythm with any symptoms. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 113322 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC 133 Fig 3.36 ECG of a paced rhythm. Some pacemaker terms Fusion beat: Union of native depolarization and pacemaker impulse. Pseudofusion beat: The pacemaker impulse occurs just after cardiac depolariza- tion, so it is ineff ective, but it distorts the QRS morphology. Pseudopseudofusion beat: If a DVI pacemaker gives an atrial spike within a na- tive QRS complex, the atrial output is non-contributory. Pacemaker syndrome: In single-chamber pacing, retrograde conduction to the atria, which then contract during ventricular systole. This leads to retrograde fl ow in pulmonary veins, and cardiac output, dyspnoea, palpitations, malaise, and even syncope. Pacemaker-mediated tachycardia: Retrograde conduction to the atrium is sensed by the pacemaker
