Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


This leads to retrograde fl ow in pulmonary veins, and cardiac output, dyspnoea, palpitations, malaise, and even syncope. Pacemaker-mediated tachycardia: Retrograde conduction to the atrium is sensed by the pacemaker and ventricular pacing delivered in response. This again causes retrograde atrial conduction causing a repetitive sensing/pacing loop. This can be fi xed by changing pacing programming parameters. Congenital arrhythmogenic cardiac conditions As well as the many acquired conditions that can predispose to arrhythmias (p125), there are a number of congenital conditions. These may be clinically silent until a fatal attack and are likely to be responsible for most cases of sudden adult death syndrome (SADS). They include: WPW syndrome (Wolff -Parkinson-White; fi g 3.37.) Caused by congenital acces- sory conduction pathway between atria and ventricles. Resting ECG shows short PR interval, wide QRS complex (due to slurred upstroke or ‘delta wave’) and ST-T changes. Two types: WPW type A (+ve  wave in V1), WPW type B (Ωve  wave in V1). Tachycardia can be due to an AVRT or pre-excited AF/atrial fl utter (p130). Manage- ment may include ablation of the accessory pathway. LQTS (Long QT syndromes.) These are channelopathies that result in prolonged repolarization phases, predisposing the patient to ventricular arrhythmias; classi- cally torsades de pointes. p804. Conditions associated with LQTS include Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome (p702) and Romano–Ward syndrome (p710). ARVC (Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy.) RV myocardium is re- placed with fi bro-fatty material. Symptoms: palpitations and syncope during ex- ercise. ECG changes include epsilon wave; T inversion and broad QRS in V1–V3. Brugada Sodium channelopathy. Diagnosis: classic coved ST elevation in V1–V3 plus suggestive clinical history. ECG changes and arrhythmias can be precipitated by fever, medications (www.brugadadrugs.org), electrolyte imbalances, and ischaemia. Many of these patients can be treated medically or conservatively but those at high risk may require an implantable cardiac defi brillator (ICD). Screening family members is important for picking up undiagnosed cases. Fig 3.37 This patient has Wolff -Parkinson-White syndrome as they have delta waves (slurred QRS upstrokes) in beats 1 and 4 of this rhythm strip. The delta wave both broadens the ventricular complex and shortens the PR interval. If a patient with WPW has AF, avoid AV node blockers such as diltiazem, verapamil, and digoxin—but fl ecainide may be used. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 113333 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC 134 Heart failure—basic concepts Defi nition Cardiac output is inadequate for the body’s requirements.33 Prevalence 1–3%
