Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


verapamil, and digoxin—but fl ecainide may be used. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 113333 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC 134 Heart failure—basic concepts Defi nition Cardiac output is inadequate for the body’s requirements.33 Prevalence 1–3% of the general population; ~10% among elderly patients. 34 Key classifi cations Systolic failure: Inability of the ventricle to contract normally, resulting in cardiac output. Ejection fraction (EF) is <40%. Causes: IHD, MI, cardiomyopathy. Diastolic failure: Inability of the ventricle to relax and fi ll normally, causing fi lling pressures. Typically EF is >50%, this is termed HFpEF (heart failure with preserved EF). Causes: ventricular hypertrophy, constrictive pericarditis, tamponade, restric- tive cardio myopathy, obesity. NB: systolic and diastolic failure pathophysiology often coexists. Left ventricular failure (LVF): Symptoms: dyspnoea, poor exercise tolerance, fa- tigue, orthopnoea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnoea (PND), nocturnal cough (± pink frothy sputum), wheeze (cardiac ‘asthma’), nocturia, cold peripheries, weight loss. Right ventricular failure (RVF): Causes: LVF, pulmonary stenosis, lung disease (cor pulmonale, see p194). Symptoms: peripheral oedema (up to thighs, sacrum, abdomi- nal wall), ascites, nausea, anorexia, facial engorgem ent, epistaxis. LVF and RVF may occur independently, or together as congestive cardiac failure (CCF). Acute heart failure: Often used exclusively to mean new-onset acute or decom- pensation of chronic heart failure characterized by pulmonary and/or peripheral oedema with or without signs of peripheral hypo perfusion. Chronic heart failure: Develops or progresses slowly. Venous congestion is common but arterial pressure is well maintained until very late. Low-output heart failure: Cardiac output is  and fails to  normally with exertion. Causes: • Excessive preload: eg mitral regurgitation or fl uid overload (eg renal failure or too rapid IV infusions, particularly in the elderly and those with established HF). • Pump failure: systolic and/or diastolic HF (see above), heart rate (eg -blockers, heart block, post MI), negatively inotropic drugs (eg most antiarrhythmic agents). • Chronic excessive afterload: eg aortic stenosis, hypertension. Excessive preload can cause ventricular dilatation, this exacerbates pump failure. Excessive afterload prompts ventricular muscle thickening (ventricular hypertro- phy), resulting in stiff walls and diastolic dysfunction. High-output heart failure: This is rare. Here, output is normal or increased in the face of needs. Failure occurs when cardiac output fails to meet these needs. It will occur with a normal heart, but even earlier if there is heart disease. Causes: anaemia, pregnancy, hyperthyroidism, Paget’s disease, arteriovenous malformation, beriberi. Consequences: initially features of RVF; later LVF becomes evident. Diagnosis Requires symptoms
