Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


peri-hilar pulmonary oedema indicating heart failure and fl uid overload. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 113355 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC 136 Heart failure—management Acute heart failure This is a medical emergency (p800). Chronic heart failure Stop smoking. Stop drinking alcohol. Eat less salt. Optimize weight & nutrition.33 • Treat the cause (eg if dysrhythmias; valve disease). • Treat exacerbating factors (anaemia, thyroid disease, infection, BP). • Avoid exacerbating factors, eg NSAIDS (fl uid retention) and verapamil (Ωve inotrope). • Annual ’fl u vaccine, one-off pneumococcal vaccine. • Drugs: 1 Diuretics: Give loop diuretics to relieve symptoms, eg furosemide 40mg/24h PO or bumetanide 1–2mg/24h PO. Increase dose as necessary. SE: K+, renal im- pairment. Monitor U&E and add K+-sparing diuretic (eg spironolactone) if K+ <3.2mmol/L, predisposition to arrhythmias, concurrent digoxin therapy, or pre- existing K+-losing conditions. If refractory oedema, consider adding a thiazide, eg metolazone 5–20mg/24h PO. Diuretics improve symptoms but studies show- ing mortality benefi t are lacking. 2 ACE-i: Consider in all those with left ventricular systolic dysfunction (LVSD); improves symptoms and prolongs life (see p114–5). If cough is a problem, an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) may be substituted. SE: K+. 3 -blockers: (eg carvedilol) mortality in heart failure—benefi t additional to those of ACE-i in patients with systolic dysfunction. 38 Use with caution: ‘start low and go slow’; if in doubt seek specialist advice fi rst; wait ≥2weeks between each dose increment. -blocker therapy in patients hospitalized with decom- pensated heart failure is associated with lower post-discharge mortality risk and improved treatment rates. 39 4 Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists: Spironolactone (25mg/24h PO) mortality by 30% when added to conventional therapy. 40 Use in those still symptomatic despite optimal therapy as listed previously, and in post-MI pa- tients with LVSD. Spironolactone is K+-sparing, but there is little risk of signifi - cant hyperkalaemia, even when given with ACE-i. Nevertheless, U&E should be monitored, particularly if the patient has known CKD. Eplerenone is an alterna- tive if spironolactone is not tolerated. 5 Digoxin: Helps symptoms even in those with sinus rhythm, and should be con- sidered for patients with LVSD who have signs or symptoms of heart failure while receiving standard therapy, including ACE-i and -blockers, or in patients with AF. Dose example: 125mcg/24h PO if sinus rhythm. Monitor U&E; maintain K+ at 4–5mmol/L as K+ risks digoxin toxicity, and vice versa. Digoxin levels: p756. Other inotropes are unhelpful in terms of outcome. 6 Vasodilators:
