Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


if sinus rhythm. Monitor U&E; maintain K+ at 4–5mmol/L as K+ risks digoxin toxicity, and vice versa. Digoxin levels: p756. Other inotropes are unhelpful in terms of outcome. 6 Vasodilators: The combination of hydralazine (SE: drug-induced lupus) and isosorbide dinitrate should be used if intolerant of ACE-i and ARBS as it reduces mortality. It also reduces mortality when added to standard therapy (including ACE-i) in black patients with heart failure. 41 Intractable heart failure Reassess the cause. Are they taking the drugs?—at maxi- mum dose? Switching furosemide to bumetanide (one 5mg tab≈200mg furos emide) might help. Inpatient management may include: • Minimal exertion; Na+ & fl uid restriction (1.5L/24h PO). • Metolazone (as above) and IV furosemide (p800). • Opiates and IV nitrates may relieve symptoms (p800). • Weigh daily. Do frequent U&E (beware K+). • Give DVT prophylaxis: heparin + TED stockings (p578). In extremis: Try IV inotropes (p802; it may be diffi cult to wean patients off them). Consider: Cardiac resynchronization (p132), LV assist device (BOX ‘Pulseless pa- tients’), or transplantation. Palliative care Treat/prevent comorbidities (eg ’fl u vaccination). Good nutrition (allow alcohol!). Involve GP: continuity of care and discussion of prognosis is much apprec i ated. 42 Dyspnoea, pain (from liver capsule stretching), nausea, constipation, and mood all need tackling. 43 Opiates improve pain and dyspnoea. O2 may help. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 113366 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC Pulseless patients 137 Left ventricular assist devices (LVADs) are increasingly used as bridging therapies for patients awaiting heart transplantation (fi g 3.39). An internalized pump forces blood through tubing from the left ventricle to the aorta. To power the pump, the patient attaches the device to the mains electricity, and uses batteries when out and about. Patients with continuous (rather than pulsatile) fl ow LVADs have no pulse (fi g 3.39c) and ascultation will reveal a loud, continuous, mechanical hum. If the patient collapses and there is no hum, resuscitation should include checking the LVAD power supply! (b) (a) (c) Fig 3.39 (a) CXR of a patient with a continuous fl ow LVAD. Blood is taken from the LV apex and pumped into the aorta. (b) Retinal fl ow velocity trace from a normal subject—large peaks in fl ow rate during systole. (c) Retinal fl ow velocity trace from a patient with an LVAD. The fl ow rate only slightly rises during systole as the fl ow from the LVAD is continuous.
