Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


(c) Retinal fl ow velocity trace from a patient with an LVAD. The fl ow rate only slightly rises during systole as the fl ow from the LVAD is continuous. Image in a) reproduced from Gardener et al., Heart Failure, 2014, with permission from Oxford University Press. (b) and (c) courtesy of Barry McDonnell. Natriuretic peptides Secretory granules have long been known to exist in the atria, and if hom ogenized atrial tissue is injected into rats, their urine volume (and Na+ excretion) rises; this is because of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP). BNP is a similar hormone originally identifi ed from pig brain (hence the B), but most BNP is secreted from ventricular myocardium. Plasma BNP is closely related to LV pressure and in MI and LV dys- function, these hormones can be released in large quantities. Secretion is also increased by tachycardia, glucocorticoids, and thyroid hormones. Role: ANP and BNP assist the stretched atria and ventricles by increasing GFR and decreasing renal Na+ resorption, thereby reducing fl uid load; and by relaxing smooth muscle, thereby decreasing preload. BNP as a biomarker of heart failure: BNP distinguishes heart failure from other causes of dyspnoea more accurately than other biomarkers and LV ejection frac- tion (sensitivity: >90%; specifi city: 80–90%). The rises are greater with left than right heart failure and with systolic than diastolic dysfunction. What BNP threshold for diagnosing heart failure: If BNP >100ng/L, this ‘diag- noses’ heart failure better than other clinical variables or clinical judgement (his- tory, examination, and CXR). BNP can be used to ‘rule out’ heart failure if <50ng/L. A BNP >50ng/L does not exclude other coexisting diseases; conditions that can cause BNP rises include tachycardia, cardiac ischaemia, COPD, PE, renal disease, sepsis, he- patic cirrhosis, diabetes, and old age. Also, assays vary, so liaise with your lab. Prognosis in heart failure: The higher the BNP, the higher the cardiovascular and all-cause mortality (independent of age, NYHA class, previous MI, and LV ejection fraction) and the greater the risk of sudden death. So, a patient whose symptoms are currently well controlled may benefi t from more aggressive treatment if their BNP if persistently raised. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 113377 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC 138 Hypertension Hypertension 44 is the most important risk factor for premature death and CVD; caus- ing ~50% of all vascular deaths (8≈106/yr). Usually asymptomatic, so regular screen- ing (eg 3-yrly) is a vital task—most
