Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


the most important risk factor for premature death and CVD; caus- ing ~50% of all vascular deaths (8≈106/yr). Usually asymptomatic, so regular screen- ing (eg 3-yrly) is a vital task—most preventable deaths are in areas without universal screening. 45 Defi ning hypertension BP has a skewed normal distribution (p751) within the popu- lation, and risk is continuously related to BP, so it is impo ssible to defi ne ‘hyperten- sion’. 46 We choose to select a value above which risk is signifi cantly increased and the benefi t of treatment is clear cut, see below. Don’t rely on a single reading—assess over a period of time (how long depends on the BP and the presence of other risk factors or end-organ damage). Confi rm with 24hr ambulatory BP monitoring (ABPM); or a week of home readings. NB: the diagnostic threshold is lower ~135/85mmHg. Whom to treat All with BP ≥160/100mmHg (or ABPM ≥150/95mmHg). For those ≥140/90, the decision depends on the risk of coronary events, presence of diabetes, or end-organ damage; see fi g 3.40. 44 The HYVET study showed that there is even sub- stantial benefi t in treating the over-80s. 47 Lower thresholds may be appropriate for young people—BP is on average lower in young people (eg 100–110/60–70 in 18-year- olds) and they have a ‘lifetime’ of risk ahead of them; but evidence to treat is lacking. White-coat hypertension Refers to an elevated clinic pressure, but normal ABPM (day average <135/85). NICE says don’t treat; but more likely to develop hypertension in future, and may have risk of CVD. Masked hypertension is the opposite. ‘Malignant’ or accelerated phase hypertension: A rapid rise in BP leading to vas- cular damage (pathological hallmark is fi brinoid necrosis). Usually there is severe hypertension (eg systolic >200, diastolic>130mmHg) + bilateral retinal haemorrhages and exudates; papilloedema may or may not be present. Symptoms are common, eg headache ± visual disturbance. It requires urgent treatment, and may also pre- cipitate acute kidney injury, heart failure, or encephalopathy, which are hypertensive emergencies. Untreated, 90% die in 1yr; treated, 70% survive 5yrs. It is more com- mon in younger and in black subjects. Look hard for any underlying cause. Primary or ‘essential’ hypertension: (Cause unknown.) ~95% of cases. Secondary hypertension: ~5% of cases. Causes include: • Renal disease: the most common secondary cause. 75% are from intrinsic renal disease: glomerulonephritis, polyarteritis nodosa (PAN), systemic sclerosis, chronic
