Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


of cases. Secondary hypertension: ~5% of cases. Causes include: • Renal disease: the most common secondary cause. 75% are from intrinsic renal disease: glomerulonephritis, polyarteritis nodosa (PAN), systemic sclerosis, chronic pyelonephritis, or polycystic kidneys. 25% are due to renovascular disease, most frequently atheromatous (elderly  cigarette smokers, eg with peripheral vascular disease) or rarely fi bromuscular dysplasia (young ). • Endocrine disease: Cushing’s (p224) and Conn’s syndromes (p228), phaeochromo- cytoma (p228), acromegaly, hyperparathyroidism. • Others: coarctation (p156), pregnancy (OHCS p48), liquorice, drugs: steroids, MAOI, oral contraceptive pill, cocaine, amphetamines. Signs and symptoms Usually asymptomatic (except malignant hypertension, see earlier in topic). Headache is no more common than in the general population. Al- ways examine the CVS fully and check for retinopathy. Are there features of an un- derlying cause (phaeochromocytoma, p228, etc.), signs of renal disease, radiofemoral delay, or weak femoral pulses (coarctation), renal bruits, palpable kidneys, or Cush- ing’s syndrome? Look for end-organ damage: LVH, retinopathy and proteinuria—indi- cates severity and duration of hypertension and associated with a poorer prognosis. Tests To confi rm diagnosis: ABPM or home BP monitoring. To help quantify overall risk: Fasting glucose; cholesterol. To look for end-organ damage: ECG or echo (any LV hypertrophy? past MI?); urine analysis (protein, blood). To ‘exclude’ secondary causes: U&E (eg K+ in Conn’s); Ca2+ ( in hyperparathyroidism). Special tests: Re- nal ultrasound/arteriography (renal artery stenosis); 24h urinary meta-adrenaline (p228); urinary free cortisol (p225); renin; aldosterone; MR aorta (coarctation). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 113388 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC Grading hypertensive retinopathy 139 1 Tortuous arteries with thick shiny walls (silver or copper wiring, p560, fi g 12.18). 2 AV nipping (narrowing where arteries cross veins, p560, fi g 12.19). 3 Flame haemorrhages and cotton-wool spots. 4 Papilloedema, p560, fi g 12.20. Measuring BP with a sphygmomanometer • Use the correct size cuff . The cuff width should be >40% of the arm circum- ference. The bladder should be centred over the brachial artery, and the cuff applied snugly. Support the arm in a horizontal position at mid-sternal level. • Infl ate the cuff while palpating the brachial artery, until the pulse disappears. This provides an estimate of systolic pressure. • Infl ate the cuff until 30mmHg above systolic pressure, then place stethoscope over the brachial artery. Defl ate the cuff at 2mmHg/s. • Systolic pressure: appearance of sustained repetitive tapping sounds (Korotkoff I). • Diastolic pressure: usually the disappearance of sounds (Korotkoff
