Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


(pliable valve); rumbling mid-diastolic murmur (heard best in expiration, with patient on left side). Graham Steell murmur (p46) may occur. Severity: the more severe the stenosis, the longer the diastolic murmur, and the closer the opening snap is to S2. Tests: ECG: AF; P-mitrale; RVH; progressive RAD. CXR: left atrial enlargement (double shadow in right cardiac silhouette); pulmonary oedema; mitral valve calcifi cation. Echo is diagnostic. Signifi cant stenosis exists if the valve orifi ce is <1cm2/m2 body surface area. Indications for cardiac catheterization: previous valvotomy; signs of other valve disease; angina; severe pulmonary hypertension; calcifi ed mitral valve. Management: If in AF, rate control (p130) is crucial; anticoagulate with warfarin (p350). Diuretics  preload and pulmonary venous congestion. If this fails to control symptoms, balloon valvuloplasty (if pliable, non-calcifi ed valve), open mitral valvot- omy, or valve replacement. 4 In patients with severe symptoms for whom open surgery is too dangerous, consider transcatheter valve repair, eg with MitraClip®. This is only available in specialist centres. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 114444 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC What Becomes of the Broken Hearted? 145 ‘For who loveth extreamely, and feeleth not that passion to dissolve his hearte? Who rejoyceth, and proveth not his heart dilated? Who is moyled with heavinesse, or plunged with payne, and perceiveth not his heart to bee coarcted? Whom infl ameth ire, and hath not heart-burning? By these experiences, wee prove in our hearts the working of Passions, and by the noyse of their tumult, wee understand the woorke of their presence’ Thomas Wright, The Passions of the Minde in Generall, 1604 From Aztec priests raising beating human hearts to the Sun-God, to heart meta- phors in song lyrics today, ideas of links between the heart and human psychoso- cial self/soul/experience-of-being have pervaded the imaginative landscapes of cultures throughout time and place. Some of these links relate to physiological changes associated with emotion-trig- gered adrenaline surges—‘my heart raced’, for example, is a phrase we relate to both physically and emotionally. Other heart-phrases result from poetic extrapola- tions of heart/self ideas and have no physiological explanation, eg ‘he wears his heart on his sleeve’. Evidence is building that heart/self interactions exist beyond metaphor and symp- tomatic ‘fl ight-or-fi ght’ responses. Aff ective disorders, certain personality types, and traumatic life-experiences increase the risk of cardiac disease, even when life- style factors are controlled for.54–56 In ‘broken heart syndrome’ (Takotsubo cardio- myopathy), ventricular contraction
