Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


disorders, certain personality types, and traumatic life-experiences increase the risk of cardiac disease, even when life- style factors are controlled for.54–56 In ‘broken heart syndrome’ (Takotsubo cardio- myopathy), ventricular contraction morphology changes in response to emotional or physical stress (fi g 3.43). It mimics a myocardial infarction in terms of clinical history, ECG changes, and troponin rises, but the prognosis and management may be quite diff erent so accurate diagnosis is important. As physicians, we often focus on explainable physical aspects of disease, but the physical and psychosocial are inconveniently related and both should be assessed to determine best management. Should an IHD suff erer be off ered CBT alongside their statins? Could a grieving patient’s ‘MI’ be Takotsubo cardiomyopathy? To an- swer these questions we must look beyond ECGs and troponin, to the ‘heart-ache’ of the literary and philosophical kinds. (a) (b) Fig 3.43 (a) Left ventriculogram of a heart in diastole. (b) The same patient’s heart in systole. The apex is ballooning whilst the base contracts, causing ineffi cient pumping and a risk of rup- ture. This pattern is classic of Takotsubo cardiomyopathy. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 114455 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC 146 Aortic valve disease Aortic stenosis (AS) Causes: Senile calcifi cation is the commonest. 57 Others: con- genital (bicuspid valve, Williams syndrome, p149), rheumatic heart disease. Presentation: Think of AS in any elderly person with chest pain, exertional dysp- noea, or syncope. The classic triad includes angina, syncope, and heart failure. Also: dyspnoea; dizziness; faints; systemic emboli if infective endocarditis; sudden death. Signs: Slow rising pulse with narrow pulse pressure (feel for diminished and delayed carotid upstroke—parvus et tardus); heaving, non-displaced apex beat; LV heave; aortic thrill; ejection systolic murmur (heard at the base, left sternal edge and the aortic area, radiates to the carotids). S1 is usually normal. As stenosis worsens, A2 is increasingly delayed, giving fi rst a single S2 and then reversed splitting. But this sign is rare. More common is a quiet A2. In severe AS, A2 may be inaudible (calcifi ed valve). There may be an ejection click (pliable valve) or an S4. Tests: ECG: LVH with strain pattern; P-mitrale; LAD; poor R-wave progression; LBBB or complete AV block (calcifi ed ring). CXR: LVH; calcifi ed aortic valve (fi g 3.44); post- stenotic dilatation of ascending aorta. Echo: diagnostic (p110). Doppler echo can estimate the gradient across valves: severe stenosis if peak gradient 40mmHg
