Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


calcifi ed aortic valve (fi g 3.44); post- stenotic dilatation of ascending aorta. Echo: diagnostic (p110). Doppler echo can estimate the gradient across valves: severe stenosis if peak gradient 40mmHg (but beware the poor left ventricle not able to generate gradient) and valve area <1cm2. If the aortic jet velocity is >4m/s (or is increasing by >0.3m/s per yr) risk of complica- tions is increased. 57 Cardiac catheter can assess: valve gradient; LV function; coronary artery disease; risks: emboli generation. Differential diagnosis: Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM, p152); aortic sclerosis. Management: If symptomatic, prognosis is poor without surgery: 2–3yr survival if angina/syncope; 1–2yr if cardiac failure. If moderate-to-severe and treated medi- cally, mortality can be as high as 50% at 2yrs, therefore prompt valve replacement (p148) is usually recommended. In asymptomatic patients with severe AS and a dete- riorating ECG, valve replacement is also recommended. If the patient is not medically fi t for surgery, percutaneous valvuloplasty/replacement (TAVI = transcatheter aortic valve implantation) may be attempted (fi g 3.45). Aortic sclerosis Senile degeneration of the valve. There is an ejection systolic mur- mur; but no carotid radiation, and normal pulse (character and volume) and S2. Aortic regurgitation (AR) Acute: Infective endocarditis, ascending aortic dis- section, chest trauma. Chronic: Congenital, connective tissue disorders (Marfan’s syndrome, Ehlers–Danlos), rheumatic fever, Takayasu arteritis, rheumatoid arthritis, SLE, pseudoxanthoma elasticum, appetite suppressants (eg fenfl uramine, phenter- mine), seronegative arthritides (ankylosing spondylitis, Reiter’s syndrome, psor iatic arthropathy), hypert ension, osteogenesis imperfecta, syphilitic aortitis. Symptoms: Exertional dyspnoea, orthopnoea, and PND. Also: palpitations, angina, syncope, CCF. Signs: Collapsing (water-hammer) pulse (p42); wide pulse pressure; displaced, hyperdynamic apex beat; high-pitc hed early diastolic murmur (heard best in expiration, with patient sat forward). Eponyms: Corrigan’s sign: carotid pulsation; de Musset’s sign: head nodding with each heart beat; Quincke’s sign: capillary pulsa- tions in nail beds; Duroziez’s sign: in the groin, a fi nger compressing the femoral ar- tery 2cm proximal to the stethoscope gives a systolic murmur; if 2cm distal, it gives a diastolic murmur as blood fl ows backwards; Traube’s sign: ‘pistol shot’ sound over femoral arteries; an Austin Flint murmur (p46) denotes severe AR. Tests: ECG: LVH. CXR: cardiomegaly; dilated ascending aorta; pulmonary oedema. Echo is diagnostic. Cardiac catheterization to assess: severity of lesion; anatomy of aortic root; LV function; coronary artery disease; other valve disease. Management: The main goal of medical therapy is to reduce systolic hypertension; ACE-i are helpful.
