Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


underlying cause. Valve repair or replacement (~10% 30-day mortality). Tricuspid regurgitation resulting from myocardial dysfunction or dilata- tion has a mortality of up to 50% at 5 yrs. Tricuspid stenosis Causes: Main cause is rheumatic fever, which almost always occurs with mitral or aortic valve disease. Also: congenital, infective endocarditis. Symptoms: Fatigue, ascites, oedema. Signs: Giant a wave and slow y descent in JVP (p43); opening snap, early diastolic murmur heard at the left sternal edge in inspiration. AF can also occur. Diagnosis: Echo. Treatment: Diuretics; surgical repair. Pulmonary stenosis Causes: Usually congenital (Turner syndrome, Noonan syn- drome, Williams syndrome, Fallot’s tetralogy, rubella). Acquired causes: rheumatic fever, carcinoid syndrome. Symptoms: Dyspnoea; fatigue; oedema; ascites. Signs: Dys- morphic facies (congenital causes); prominent a wave in JVP; RV heave. In mild stenosis, there is an ejection click, ejection systolic murmur (which radiates to the left shoulder); widely split S2. In severe stenosis, the murmur becomes longer and obscures A2. P2 becomes softer and may be inaudible. Tests: ECG: RAD, P-pulmonale, RVH, RBBB; echo/TOE (p110); CXR: prominent pulmonary arteries caused by post-stenotic dilatation. Cardiac catheterization is diagnostic. Treatment: Pulmonary valvuloplasty or valvotomy. Pulmonary regurgitation Causes: Any cause of pulmonary hypertension (p194). Signs: Decrescendo murmur in early diastole at the left sternal edge (the Graham Steell murmur if associated with mitral stenosis and pulmonary hypertension). Cardiac surgery Cardiac surgery has come on a long way since 1923 when Dr Henry Souttar58,59 used his fi nger to open a stenosed mitral valve in a beating heart.6 Cardiac bypass allows prolonged access to the open, static heart, during which complex and high-precision repair and replacement of valves and aortic roots can occur. Transcatheter proce- dures are playing an increasing role in the management of cardiovascular disease. Key open heart procedures include: Valve replacements Mechanical valves may be of the ball-cage (Starr–Edwards), tilting disc (Bjork–Shiley), or double tilting disc (St Jude) type. These valves are very durable but the risk of thromboembolism is high; patients require lifelong anticoagu- lation. Xenografts are made from porcine valves or pericardium. These valves are less durable and may require replacement at 8–10yrs but have the advantage of not necessitating anticoagulation. Homografts are cadaveric valves. They are particu- larly useful in young patients and in the replacement of infected valves. Complica- tions of prosthetic valves: systemic embolism, infective endocarditis, haemolysis, structural valve failure, arrhythmias. CABG See p123. Cardiac transplantation Consider this when
