Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


pericardial eff usion. Echo (if suspected pericardial eff usion). CMR and CT may show localized infl ammation. Treatment: NSAIDs or aspirin with gastric protection for 1–2weeks. Add colchicine 500mcg OD or BD for 3 months to reduce the risk of recurrence. Rest until symptoms resolve. Treat the cause. If not improving or autoimmune, consider steroids (may increase the risk of recurrence) or other immunosuppressive therapies. Pericardial eff usion Accumulation of fl uid in the pericardial sac (normally 10– 50mL).68 Causes: Pericarditis, myocardial rupture (haemopericardium—surgical, stab wound, post-MI); aortic dissection; pericardium fi lling with pus; malignancy. Clinical features: Dyspnoea, chest pain, signs of local structures being compressed— hiccoughs (phrenic N), nausea (diaphragm), bronchial breathing at left base (Ewart’s sign: compressed left lower lobe). Muffl ed heart sounds. Look for signs of cardiac tamponade (below). Diagnosis: CXR shows an enlarged, globular heart if eff usion >300mL; fi g 3.14. ECG shows low-voltage QRS complexes and may have alternating QRS morphologies (elec- trical alternans). Echocardi ography shows an echo-free zone surrounding the heart. Management: Treat the cause. Pericardiocentesis may be diagnostic (suspected bacterial pericarditis) or therapeutic (cardiac tamponade). See p773. Send pericar- dial fl uid for culture, ZN stain/TB culture, and cytology. Constrictive pericarditis The heart is encased in a rigid pericardium.68 Causes: Often unknown (UK); elsewhere TB, or after any pericarditis. Clinical features: These are mainly of right heart failure with JVP (with prominent x and y descents, p43); Kussmaul’s sign (JVP rising paradoxically with inspiration); soft, diff use apex beat; quiet heart sounds; S3; diastolic pericardial knock, hepato- splenomegaly, ascites, and oedema. Tests: CXR: small heart ± pericardial calcifi cation. CT/MRI—helps distinguish from re- strictive cardiomyopathy. Echo. Cardiac catheterization. Management: Surgical excision. Medical  to address the cause and symptoms. Cardiac tamponade A pericardial eff usion that raises intrapericardial pressure, reducing ventricular fi lling and thus dropping cardiac output.68  Can lead rapidly to cardiac arrest. Signs: Pulse, BP, pulsus paradoxus, JVP, Kussmaul’s sign, muffl ed S1 and S2. Diagnosis: Beck’s triad: falling BP; rising JVP; muffl ed heart sounds. ECG: low-voltage QRS ± electrical alternans. Echo is diagnostic: echo-free zone (>2cm, or >1cm if acute) around the heart ± diastolic collapse of right atrium and right ventricle. Management: Seek expert help. The pericardial eff usion needs urgent drainage (p773). Send fl uid for culture, ZN stain/TB culture, and cytology. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 115544 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC Fig 3.51 Pericarditis. Note the
