Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


help. The pericardial eff usion needs urgent drainage (p773). Send fl uid for culture, ZN stain/TB culture, and cytology. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 115544 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC Fig 3.51 Pericarditis. Note the widespread ‘saddle-shaped’ ST elevation—particularly clear in V5 and V6. Cardiovascular medicine __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 115555 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 155 156 Adult congenital heart disease (ACHD) This is a growing area of cardiology as increasing numbers of children with congenital heart defects survive to adulthood, sometimes as a result of complex restructuring procedures which have their own physiological implications (see BOX ‘Patients with one ventricle’). ACHD69 patients are at increased risk of many conditions described else- where, for which many of the ‘standard’ investigations and therapies will apply: includ- ing arrhythmias (p124), heart failure (p134), and infective endocarditis (p150). Investigations Echocardiography (± bubble contrast) is fi rst line. Increasingly, car- diac CT and MR are used to provide precise anatomical and functional information. Cardiac catheterization generates data on oxygen saturation and pressure in diff er- ent vessels and chambers. Exercise testing assesses functional capacity. A few of the more common ACHDs are discussed below: Bicuspid aortic valve These work well at birth and go undetected. Many even- tually develop aortic stenosis (needing valve replacement) ± aortic regurgitation predisposing to IE/SBE ± aortic dilatation/dissection. Intense exercise may accelerate complications, so do yearly echocardiograms on aff ected athletes. 70 Atrial septal defect (ASD) A hole connects the atria. • Ostium secundum defects: 80% cases; hole high in the septum; often asymptomat- ic until adulthood when a LR shunt develops. Shunting depends on the compliance of the ventricles. LV compliance decreases with age (esp. if BP), so augmenting LR shunting; hence dyspnoea/heart failure, typically aged 40–60yrs. • Ostium primum defects: associated with AV valve anomalies, eg in Down’s syn- drome; present in childhood. Signs and symptoms: Chest pain, palpitations, dyspnoea. Arrhythmias incl. AF; JVP; wide, fi xed split S2; pulmonary systolic fl ow murmur. Pulmonary hypertension may cause pulmonary or tricuspid regurgitation, dyspnoea and haemoptysis. Frequency of migraine. Simple tests: ECG: RBBB with LAD (primum defect) or RAD (secundum defect). CXR: small aortic knuckle, pulmonary plethora, atrial enlargement. Com- plications: • Reversal of left-to-right shunt, ie Eisen men ger’s complex: initial LR shunt leads to pulmonary hypertension which increases right heart pressures until they exceed left heart pressures, hence shunt reversal. This causes cyanosis as de- oxygenated blood enters systemic circulation. • Paradoxical emboli eg causing CVAs
