Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


which increases right heart pressures until they exceed left heart pressures, hence shunt reversal. This causes cyanosis as de- oxygenated blood enters systemic circulation. • Paradoxical emboli eg causing CVAs (veinartery via ASD; rare). Treatment: May close spontaenously. If not, primum de- fects are usually closed in childhood. Secundum defects should be closed if sympto- matic or signs of RV overload. Transcatheter closure is more common than surgical. Ventricular septal defect (VSD) A hole connects the ventricles. Causes: Congenital (prevalence 2:1000 births); acquired (post-MI). Symptoms: May present with severe heart failure in infancy, or remain asymptomatic and be detected incidentally in later life. Signs: Classically, a harsh pan systolic murmur is heard at the left sternal edge, with a systolic thrill, ± left para sternal heave. Smaller holes, which are haemo- dynamically less signifi cant, give louder murmurs. Signs of pulmonary hypertension. Complications: AR, IE/SBE, pulmonary hypertension, Eisenmenger’s complex (above), heart failure from volume overload. Tests: ECG: normal, LAD, LVH, RVH. CXR: normal heart size ± mild pulmonary plethora (small VSD) or cardiomegaly, large pulmonary arteries and marked pulmonary plethora (large VSD). Cardiac catheter: step up in O2 saturation in right ventricle. Treatment: Initially medical as many close sponta- neously. Indications for surgical closure: failed medical therapy, symptomatic VSD, shunt >3 : 1, SBE/IE. Endovascular closure may be possible. 71 Coarctation of the aorta Congenital narrowing of the descending aorta; usually occurs just distal to the origin of the left subclavian artery. More common in boys. Associations: Bicuspid aortic valve; Turner’s syndrome. Signs: Radiofemoral delay; weak femoral pulse; BP; scapular bruit; systolic murmur (best heard over the left scapula); cold feet. Complications: Heart failure from high afterload; IE; intracer- ebral haemorrhage. Tests: CT or MRI-aortogram; CXR may show rib notching as blood diverts down intercostal arteries to reach the lower body, causing these vessels to dilate and erode local rib bone. Treatment: Surgery, or balloon dilatation ± stenting. Tetralogy of Fallot See p157. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 115566 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC Fallot’s tetralogy: what the non-specialist needs to know 157 Tetralogy of Fallot (TOF) is the most common cyanotic congenital heart disorder (prevalence: 3–6 per 10 000). It is also the most common cyanotic heart defect that survives to adulthood, accounting for 10% of all ACHD. 72 It is believed to be due to abnormalities in separation of the truncus arteriosus into the aorta and pulmo- nary arteries early in gestation (fi
