Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


10% of all ACHD. 72 It is believed to be due to abnormalities in separation of the truncus arteriosus into the aorta and pulmo- nary arteries early in gestation (fi g 3.52). The ‘tetralogy’ of features are: 1 Ventricular septal defect (VSD). 2 Pulmonary stenosis. 3 Right ventricular hypertrophy. 4 The aorta overrides the VSD, accepting right heart blood. A few patients also have an ASD, which makes up the pentad of Fallot. Presentation: Severity of illness depends greatly on the degree of pulmonary stenosis. Infants may be acyanotic at birth, with a pulmonary stenosis mur- mur as the only initial fi nding. Gradually (especially after closure of the ductus arteriosus) they become cyanotic due to decreasing fl ow of blood to the lungs Fig 3.52 Tetralogy of Fallot. and increasing right-to-left fl ow across the VSD. Dur- Reproduced from Thorne et al., ing a hypoxic spell, the child becomes restless and Adult Congenital Heart Disease, agitated. Toddlers may squat, which is typical of TOF, 2009, with permission from Oxford University Press. as it increases peripheral vascular resistance, there- by decreasing the degree of right to left shunt. Adult patients are often asymp- tomatic. In the unoperated adult patient, cyanosis is common, although extreme cyanosis or squatting is uncommon. In repaired patients, late symptoms include exertional dyspnoea, palpitations, clubbing, RV failure, syncope, and even sudden death. Investigations: ECG shows RV hypertrophy with a right bundle-branch block. CXR may be normal, or show the hallmark of TOF, which is the classic boot- shaped heart (fi g 3.53). Echocardiography can show the anatomy as well as the degree of stenosis. Cardiac CT and cardiac MRI can give valuable information for planning the surgery. 73 Management: Surgery is usually done be- fore 1yr of age, with closure of the VSD and correction of pulmonary stenosis. Prognosis: Without surgery, mortality rate is ~95% by age 20. After repair, 85% of pa- tients survive to 35yrs. Common problems in adulthood include pulmonary regurgitation, causing RV dilatation and failure; RV outfl ow Fig 3.53 Boot-shaped heart. tract obstruction; AR; LV dysfunction; and ar- Courtesy of Dr Edward Singleton. rhythmias. Patients with one ventricle Many patients born with single-ventricle hearts (eg hypoplastic left heart syn- drome) will undergo a Fontan procedure. This results in systemic venous blood fl owing directly into the pulmonary arteries and the single ventricle being used to pump oxygenated blood into the aorta.
