Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


undergo a Fontan procedure. This results in systemic venous blood fl owing directly into the pulmonary arteries and the single ventricle being used to pump oxygenated blood into the aorta. The lack of a right heart results in many of the signs and symptoms of right heart failure and puts the patient at risk of rapid cardiac decompensation. When looking after these patients, seek advice from specialist ACHD centres. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 115577 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC 158 Driving and the heart UK licences are inscribed ‘You are required by law to inform Drivers Medical Branch, DVLA, Swansea SA99 1AT at once if you have any disability (physical or medical), which is, or may become likely to aff ect your fi tness as a driver, unless you do not expect it to last more than 3 months’. It is the responsibility of drivers to inform the DVLA (the UK Driving and Vehicle Licensing Authority), and that of their doctors to advise patients that medical conditions74 (and drugs) may aff ect their ability to drive and for which conditions patients should inform the DVLA. Drivers should also inform their insurance company of any condition disclosed to the DVLA. If in doubt, ask your defence union. The following are examples of the guidance for holders of standard licences; diff er- ent rules apply for group 2 vehicle licence-holders (eg lorries, buses). More can be found at tness-to-drive. Angina Driving must cease when symptoms occur at rest or with emotion. Driving may recommence when satisfactory symptom control is achieved. DVLA need not be notifi ed. Angioplasty Driving must cease for 1wk, and may recommence thereafter provided no other disqualifying condition. DVLA need not be notifi ed. MI If successfully treated with angioplasty, cease driving for 1 week provided urgent intervention not planned and LVEF (left ventricular ejection fraction) >40%, and no other disqualifying condition. Otherwise, driving must cease for 1 month. DVLA need not be notifi ed. Dysrhythmias Including sinoatrial disease, AF/fl utter, atrioventricular conduction defects, and narrow or broad complex tachycardias. Driving must cease if the dys- rhythmia has caused or is likely to cause incapacity. Driving may recommence 4wks after successful control provided there is no other disqualifying condition. Pacemaker implant Stop driving for 1wk, the patient must notify the DVLA. Implanted cardioverter/defi brillator The licence is subject to annual review. Driving may occur when these criteria can be met: • 6 months
