Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


for 1wk, the patient must notify the DVLA. Implanted cardioverter/defi brillator The licence is subject to annual review. Driving may occur when these criteria can be met: • 6 months have passed since ICD implanted for secondary prevention. • 1 month has passed since ICD implanted for primary prophylaxis. • The device has not administered therapy (shock and/or symptomatic antitachycar- dia pacing) within the last 6 months (except during testing). • No therapy (shock) in the last 2 years has been accompanied by incapacity (wheth- er caused by the device or arrhythmia)—unless this was a result of device malfunc- tion which has been corrected for at least 1 month or steps have been taken to avoid recurrence (eg ablation) which have been successful for at least 6 months. • A period of 1 month off driving must occur following any revision of the device (generator and/or electrode) or alteration of antiarrhythmics. • The device is subject to regular review with interrogation. • There is no other disqualifying condition. Syncope Simple faint: No restriction. Unexplained syncope: With probable car- diac aetiology—4wks off driving if cause identifi ed and treated; otherwise 6 months off . Loss of consciousness or altered awareness associated with signs of seizure requires 6 months off driving. If the patient is known to be epileptic or has had another such episode in the preceeding 5yrs, they must abstain from driving for 1yr. See driving and epilepsy (BOX). Patients who have had a single episode of loss of consciousness with no cause found despite neurological and cardiac investigations, must abstain from driving for 6 months. Hypertension Driving may continue unless treatment causes unacceptable side- eff ects. DVLA need not be notifi ed. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 115588 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC Other conditions: UK DVLA states it must be informed if a driver suff ers 159 from medical conditions including: • Epilepsy (the patient must have had at least two seizures in the last 5yrs). An epileptic patient who has suff ered an epileptic attack while awake must not drive for 1yr from the date of the attack. Patients who have seizures that do not aff ect their consciousness (eg simple partial seizures) or seizures only dur- ing sleep may be allowed to drive. Being allowed to drive is conditional on the patient following medical advice and there not being reason to believe they are at high risk of further seizures. •
