Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


to drive. Being allowed to drive is conditional on the patient following medical advice and there not being reason to believe they are at high risk of further seizures. • TIA or stroke. These patients should not drive for at least 1 month. There is no need to inform the DVLA unless there is residual neurological defect after 1 month, eg visual fi eld defect. If TIAS have been recurrent and frequent, a 3-month period free of attacks may be required. • Sudden attacks or disabling giddiness, fainting, or blackouts. • Chronic neurological conditions including multiple sclerosis, Parkinson’s (any ‘freezing’ or on–off eff ects), and motor neuron diseases. • Severe mental disorders; including serious memory problems and severe psy- chiatric illness. Those with dementia should only drive if the condition is mild (do not rely on armchair judgements: on-the-road trials are better). Encourage relatives to contact DVLA if a dementing relative should not be driving. GPs may desire to breach confi dentiality (the GMC approves) and inform DVLA of demented or psychotic patients (tel. 01792 783686). Many elderly drivers (~1 in 3) who die in accidents are found to have Alzheimer’s. • A pacemaker, defi brillator, or antiventricular tachycardia device fi tted. • Diabetes controlled by insulin or tablets. The main issues which may result in driving bans are impaired awareness of hypoglycaemia and impaired vision. • Angina while driving. • Any type of brain surgery, brain tumour. Severe head injury involving inpatient treatment at hospital. • Continuing/permanent diffi culty in the use of arms or legs which aff ects ability to control a vehicle. • Dependence on or misuse of alcohol, illicit drugs, or chemical substances in the past 3yrs (do not include drink/driving off ences). • Any visual disability which aff ects both eyes (do not declare short/long sight or colour blindness). Vision (new drivers) should be 6/9 on Snellen’s scale in the better eye and 6/12 on the Snellen scale in the other eye, wearing glasses or contact lenses if needed, and 3/60 in each eye without glasses or contact lenses. The above-listed rules apply to standard licences only, for group 2 entitlement (eg HGV drivers) see www.dvla.gov.uk/medical/ataglance.aspx. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 115599 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem ralucsavoidraC 4 Chest medicine Contents Respiratory health 161 Investigations Bedside tests in chest medicine 162 Further investigations in chest medicine 164 Pulmonary conditions: Pneumonia 166 Fig 4.1 In 1948, the Medical Research Council pub-
