Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


to preventative measures and eff ective treatments. How- ever, the importance of poverty and general improvements in public health cannot be underestimated. Rates of TB in the UK declined well before the introduction of BCG vaccination and streptomycin, largely due to improvements in sanitation and less dense living conditions. Public health campaigns and taxation have helped lower smoking rates, although reductions in lung cancer will lag behind for many years. Larynx Trachea Superior lobe of left lung Superior lobe of right lung Right primary Left primary bronchus bronchus Right Left secondary secondary bronchus bronchus Right tertiary bronchus Left tertiary bronchus Inferior lobe Middle lobe Inferior lobe of right lung of left lung Smaller bronchi Primary bronchi Smaller Secondary bronchi bronchi Tertiary bronchi Smaller bronchi Fig 4.2 Segmental anatomy of the lungs and main bronchi. The left lung has two lobes and the right has three. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 116611 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0066 enicidem tsehC 162 Bedside tests in chest medicine There is no substitute for careful history taking and examination in making the ‘correct’ diagnosis. Tests should help clarify and assess severity. When examining the chest think about the anatomy, and the location of pathology (fi g 4.2). Sputum examination Collect a good sample; if necessary ask a physiotherapist to help. Note the appearance: clear and colourless (chronic bronchitis), yellow-green or brown (pulmonary infection), red (haemoptysis), black (smoke, coal dust), or frothy white-pink (pulmonary oedema). Send the sample to the laboratory for microscopy, culture/sensitivity. If indicated, ask for ZN stain, and PCR. Peak expiratory fl ow (PEF) Measured by a maximal forced expiration through a peak fl ow meter. It correlates well with the forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) & is used as an estimate of airway calibre in asthma, but is eff ort-dependent. Pulse oximetry Allows non-invasive assessment of peripheral O2 saturation (SpO2). Useful for monitoring those who are acutely ill or at risk of deterioration. Target oxy- gen saturations are usually 94–98% in a well patient or 88–92% in those with certain pre-exisiting lung pathology (eg COPD). Oxygen saturation of <92% in a normally well person is a serious sign and arterial blood gases (ABGS) should be checked. Causes of erroneous readings: poor perfusion, movement, skin pigmentation, nail varnish, dys haemoglobina emias, and carbon monoxide poisoning. As with any bedside test, be sceptical, and check ABGS, whenever indicated (p188). Arterial blood gas (ABG) analysis Heparinized blood is usually taken
