Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


drainage of pleural eff usions (particularly loculated eff usions) and empyema. Ra- dionuclide scans: Ventilation/perfusion (V/Q, p738) scans are occasionally used to diagnose pulmonary embolism (PE), eg in pregnancy (unmatched perfusion defects are seen). Bone scans are used to diagnose bone metastases. PET scans to assess cancer and infl ammation. Computed tomography: (CT, p730) Used for diagnosing and staging lung cancer, imaging the hila, mediastinum, and pleura, and guiding biopsies. Thin (1–1.5mm) section high-resolution CT (HRCT) is used in the diagnosis of interstitial lung disease, emphysema, and bronchiectasis. CT pulmonary angiography (CTPA) is used in the diagnosis of PE. Pulmonary angiography: Now rarely used for diagnosing pulmonary hypertension. Fibreoptic bronchoscopy Performed under local anaesthetic via the nose or mouth. Diagnostic indications: Suspected lung carcinoma, slowly resolving pneu- monia, pneumonia in the immunosuppressed, interstitial lung disease. Bronchoal- veolar lavage fl uid may be sent to the lab for microscopy, culture, and cytology. Mucosal abnormalities may be brushed (cytology) and biopsied (histopathology). Therapeutic indications: Aspiration of mucus plugs causing lobar collapse, removal of foreign bodies, stenting or treating tumours, eg laser. Pre-procedure investiga- tions: FBC, coagulation, CXR, CT, spirometry, pulse oximetry, and ABG (if indicated). Complications: Hypoxia, bleeding, pneumo thorax (fi g 16.43, p749). Diagnostic sensi- tivity for cancer 50–90%, depends on tumour location; gene profi ling of cell sample may improve this. 2 May also be used to deliver an ultrasound probe (endobronchial ultrasound), and treatments—eg stents, or cryotherapy. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) is performed at the time of bronchoscopy by in- stilling and aspirating a known volume of warmed, buff ered 0.9% saline into the distal airway. Diagnostic indications: Suspected malignancy, pneumonia, in the im- munosuppressed (especially HIV), bronchiectasis, suspected TB (if sputum negative), interstitial lung diseases (eg sarcoidosis, extrinsic allergic alveolitis, histiocytosis X). Therapeutic indications: alveolar proteinosis.1 Complications: Hypoxia (give sup- plemental O2), transient fever, transient CXR shadow, infection (rare). Lung biopsy May be performed in several ways. Percutaneous needle biopsy is performed under radiological guidance and is useful for peripheral lung and pleural lesions. Transbronchial biopsy performed at bronchoscopy may help in diagnos- ing interstitial lung diseases, eg sarcoidosis, idiopathic pulmonary fi brosis. Alterna- tives: If unsuccessful, consider open lung biopsy or video-assisted thoracoscopy. Surgical procedures are performed under general anaesthetic. Rigid bronchos- copy provides a wide lumen, enables larger mucosal biopsies, control of bleeding, and removal of foreign bodies. Mediastinoscopy and mediastinotomy enable ex- amination and biopsy of
