Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


is <200≈106/L or after the 1st attack. 9 __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 116688 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 enicidem tsehC Avian infl uenza 169 Avian infl uenza A viruses rarely infect humans and most follow direct or close contact with infected poultry. The issue remains a public health priority because of the ability of the virus to mutate. Symptoms range from conjunctivitis to infl u- enza-like illness (low pathogenic forms) to severe respiratory illness and multi- organ failure (highly pathogenic forms). H7N9 and H5N1 have been responsible for most human illnesses worldwide. Suspect avian fl u if fever (>38°C), chest signs or consolidation on CXR, or life-threatening infection, and contact with poultry or others with similar symptoms.10 NB: D&V, abdominal pain, pleuritic pain, and bleed- ing from the nose and gums are reported to be an early feature in some patients. 11 Diagnosis: Viral culture ± reverse transcriptase-PCR with H5 & N1 specifi c primers. 12 Management: Get help. Contain the outbreak,2 p397, in the UK, via your consult- ant in communicable disease control.13 Ventilatory support + O2 and antivirals may be needed. Most viruses are susceptible to oseltamivir, peramivir, and zanamivir. Nebulizers and high-air fl ow O2 masks are implicated in nosocomial spread. 11,14 Precautions for close contacts of infected patients: Hand hygiene, avoid shared utensils and face-to-face contact, wear high-effi ciency masks and eye protection. Start empirical antiviral treatment (oseltamivir within 48 hours of exposure and zanamivir within 36 hours). Monitor for fever, cough, shortness of breath, diarrhoea, or other systemic symptoms developing. Coronaviruses: SARS and MERS Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS15) is caused by SARS-COV virus—a corona virus. Major features are persistent fever (>38°C), chills, rigors, myalgia, dry cough, headache, diarrhoea, and dyspnoea—with an abnormal CXR and WCC. Respiratory failure is a complicating feature: ~20% progress to acute respiratory distress syndrome requiring invasive ventilation. 16 Mortality is 1–50%, depend- ing on age, but no cases since 2004. Close contacts, or travel to an area with known cases should raise suspicion. The mechanism of transmission of SARS-CoV is human–human. Management: seek expert help. Largely supportive with good infection control measures. Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) is a viral respiratory disease caused by novel coronavirus (MERS CoV) and was fi rst identifi ed in 2012 in Saudi Arabia. Symptoms include fever, cough, shortness of breath, and gastrointestinal upset. Incubation period 14 days. Human-to-human transmission has been reported in most cases, but camels play a pivotal
