Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


in Saudi Arabia. Symptoms include fever, cough, shortness of breath, and gastrointestinal upset. Incubation period 14 days. Human-to-human transmission has been reported in most cases, but camels play a pivotal host role in animal-to-human transmission. Large outbreaks linked to healthcare facilities have been reported in the Middle East and South Korea. The World Health Organization has reported mortality as high as 36% in known cases.13 2 Therapeutic or prophylactic antivirals are said to be the most eff ective single intervention followed by vaccine and basic public health measures. 17 But oseltamivir resistance and unavailability of a suitable vac- cine during the early stages of a pandemic make non-drug interventions all the more important. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 116699 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 enicidem tsehC 170 Complications of pneumonia Respiratory failure (See p188.) Type I respiratory failure (PaO2 <8kPa) is relatively common. Treatment is with high-fl ow (60%) oxygen. Transfer the patient to ITU if hypoxia does not improve with O therapy or PCO rises to >6kPa. Be careful with 2 a 2 O2 in COPD patients; check ABGS frequently, and consider elective ventilation if rising PaCO2 or worsening acidosis. Aim to keep SaO2 at 94–98%, PaO2 ≥8kPa. Hypotension May be due to a combination of dehydration and vasodilation due to sepsis. If systolic BP is <90mmHg, give an intravenous fl uid challenge of 250mL colloid/crystalloid over 15min. If BP does not rise, consider a central line and give IV fl uids to maintain the systolic BP >90mmHg. If systolic BP remains <90mmHg despite fl uid therapy, request ITU assessment for inotropic support. Atrial fi brillation (p130.) Common in the elderly. It usually resolves with treatment of the pneumonia. -blocker or digoxin may be required to slow the ventricular re- sponse rate in the short term. Pleural eff usion Infl ammation of the pleura by adjacent pneumonia may cause fl uid exudation into the pleural space. If this accumulates faster than it is reabsorbed, a pleural eff usion develops. If small, it may be of no consequence. If larger and patient symptomatic, or infected (empyema), drainage is required (p192, p766). Empyema Pus in the pleural space. It should be suspected if a patient with a resolv- ing pneumonia develops a recurrent fever. Clinical features: CXR indicates a pleural eff usion. The aspirated pleural fl uid is typically yellow and turbid with a pH <7.2, glucose, and LDH. The empyema should be drained using a chest drain,
