Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


a pleural eff usion. The aspirated pleural fl uid is typically yellow and turbid with a pH <7.2, glucose, and LDH. The empyema should be drained using a chest drain, inserted under radiological guidance. Adhesions and loculation can make this diffi cult. Lung abscess A cavitating area of localized, suppurative infection within the lung (see fi g 4.6). Causes: •Inadequately treated pneumonia. •Aspiration (eg alcoholism, oesopha geal obstruction, bulbar palsy). •Bronchial obstruction (tumour, foreign body). •Pulmo- nary infarction. •Septic emboli (septicaemia, right heart endocarditis, IV drug use). •Subphrenic or hepatic abscess. Clinical features: Swinging fever; cough; purulent, foul-smelling sputum; pleuritic chest pain; haemoptysis; malaise; weight loss. Look for: fi nger clubbing; anaemia; crepitations. Empyema develops in 20–30%. Tests: Blood: FBC (anaemia, neutrophilia), ESR, CRP, blood cultures. Sputum micros- copy, culture, and cytology. CXR: walled cavity, often with a fl uid level. Consider CT scan to exclude obstruction, and bronchoscopy to obtain diagn ostic specimens. Treatment: Antibiotics as indicated by sensitivities; continue until healed (4–6 wks). Postural drainage. Repeated aspiration, antibiotic instillation, or surgical excision may be required. Septicaemia May occur as a result of bacterial spread from the lung parenchyma into the bloodstream. This may cause metastatic infection, eg infective endoc arditis, meningitis. Treat with IV antibiotic according to sensitivities. Pericarditis and myocarditis May also complicate pneumonia. Jaundice This is usually cholestatic, and may be due to sepsis or secondary to anti- biotic therapy (particularly fl ucloxacillin and co-amoxiclav). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 117700 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 enicidem tsehC 171 Fig 4.6 PA chest radiograph showing multiple rounded ring lesions of diff ering sizes in the right lower zone, at the right apex, and in the left lower zone. The lesions are largest in the right low- er zone, where they can be seen to contain air-fl uid levels, typical appearance of infection in a pneumatocele (=air cyst) or cavitating lesion. A moderate right-sided hydropneumothorax can also be seen, suggesting that one of these lesions may have ruptured into the pleural cavity. The patient also has a right subclavian central venous catheter for the administration of antibiotics. The diag- nosis in this case was that of multiple pulmonary abscesses in a patient who was an intravenous drug user. Image courtesy of Derby Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust Radiology Department. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 117711 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 enicidem tsehC 172 Bronchiectasis Pathology Chronic infl ammation of the bronchi and bronchioles leading to perma- nent dilatation and thinning of these
