Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


liver; adrenals (Addison’s). Non- metastatic neurological: confusion; fi ts; cerebellar syndrome; proximal myopathy; neuropathy; polymyositis; Lambert–Eaton syndrome (p512). See table 4.3. Tests: CXR: peripheral nodule (fi g 4.8); hilar enlargement; consolidation; lung col- lapse; pleur al eff usion; bony secondaries. Cytology: sputum and pleural fl uid (send at least 20mL). Fine needle aspiration or biopsy (peripheral lesions/lymph nodes). CT to stage the tumour (p176) and guide bronchoscopy. Broncho scopy: to give histol- ogy and assess operability, ± endobronchial ultrasound for assessment and biopsy. 18F-deoxyglucose PET or PET/CT EBUS scan to help in staging. Radionuclide bone scan: if suspected metastases. Lung function tests: help assess suitability for lobectomy. Other lung tumours Bronchial adenoma: Rare, slow-growing. 90% are carcinoid tumours; 10% cylindromas. : surgery. Hamartoma: Rare, benign; CT: lobulated mass ± fl ecks of calcifi cation; ?excise to exclude malignancy. Malignant mesothelioma A tumour of mesothelial cells that usually occurs in the pleura, and rarely in the peritoneum or other organs. It is associated with occupa- tional exposure to asbestos but the relationship is complex. 23 90% report previous exposure to asbestos, but only 20% of patients have pulmonary asbestosis. The la- tent period between exposure and development of the tumour may be up to 45yrs. Compensation is often available. Clinical features: Chest pain, dyspnoea, weight loss, fi nger clubbing, recurrent pleu- ral eff usions. Signs of metastases: lymphadenopathy, hepatomegaly, bone pain/ten- derness, abdominal pain/obstr uction (peritoneal malignant mesothelioma). Tests: CXR/CT: pleural thickening/eff usion. Bloody pleural fl uid. Diagnosis: Made on histology, usually following a thoracoscopy. Often the diagnosis is only made post-mortem. Management: Pemetrexed + cisplatin chemotherapy can improve survival. 24 Surgery is hard to evaluate (few randomized trials). Radiotherapy is controversial. Pleurodesis and indwelling intra-pleural drain may help. Prognosis: Poor (especially without pemetrexed, eg <2yrs). >650 deaths/yr in UK. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 117744 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 enicidem tsehC Diff erential diagnosis of nodule in the lung on a CXR 175 • Malignancy (1° or 2°) • Arterio-venous malformation • Abscesses (p170) • Encysted eff usion (fl uid, blood, pus) • Granuloma • Cyst • Carcinoid tumour • Foreign body • Pulmonary hamartoma • Skin tumour (eg seborrhoeic wart). Fig 4.8 A wedge-shaped density in the right middle lobe. Also note a coin lesion at the right costophrenic angle. Right hilar lymphadenopathy. Courtesy of Janet E. Jeddry, Yale Medical School. Table 4.3 Non-metastatic extrapulmonary manifestations of bronchial cancer System Manifestations Endocrine Ectopic secretion; ACTH
