Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


surgical excision for solitary symptomatic lesions or severe haemoptysis. Oral itraconazole and other antifungals have been tried with lim- ited success. Local instillation of amphotericin paste under CT guidance yields partial success in carefully selected patients, eg in massive haemoptysis. 4 Invasive aspergillosis: Risk factors: 27 immunocompromise, eg HIV, leukaemia, burns, Wegener’s (p714), and SLE, or after broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy. In- vestigations: sputum culture; BAL; biopsy; serum precipitins; CXR (consolidation, abscess). Early chest CT and serial serum measurements of galactomannan (an Aspergillus antigen) may be helpful. Diagnosis may only be made at lung biopsy or autopsy. Treatment: voriconazole is superior to IV amphotericin. 28 Alterna- tives: IV miconazole or ketoconazole (less eff ective). Prognosis: 30% mortality. 5 Extrinsic allergic alveolitis (EAA): See p198. Other fungal infections Candida and Cryptococcus may cause pneumonia in the immunosuppressed (see p408). Fig 4.9 Aspergillosis. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 117777 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 enicidem tsehC 178 Asthma Asthma aff ects 5–8% of the population. It is characterized by recurrent episodes of dyspnoea, cough, and wheeze caused by reversible airways obstruction. Three fac- tors contribute to airway narrowing: bronchial muscle contraction, triggered by a variety of stimuli; mucosal swelling/infl ammation, caused by mast cell and basophil degranulation resulting in the release of infl ammatory mediators; and increased mucus production. Symptoms Intermittent dyspnoea, wheeze, cough (often nocturnal), and sputum (see table 4.5). Precipitants: Cold air, exercise, emotion, allergens (house dust mite, pollen, fur), infection, smoking and passive smoking,29 pollution, NSAIDS, -blockers. Diurnal variation Symptoms or peak fl ow may vary over the day. Marked morning dipping of peak fl ow is common and can tip the balance into a serious attack, despite having normal peak fl ow (fi g 4.12) at other times. Exercise: Quantify the exercise tolerance. Disturbed sleep: Quantify as nights per week (a sign of severe asthma). Acid refl ux: 40–60% of those with asthma have refl ux; treating it improves spirom- etry, but not necessarily symptoms.3 0 Other atopic disease: Eczema, hay fever, allergy, or family history? The home (especially the bedroom): Pets? Carpet? Feather pillows or duvet? Floor cushions and other ‘soft furnishings’? Job: If symptoms remit at weekends or holidays, work may provide the trigger (15% of cases are work-related—more for paint sprayers, food processors, welders, and animal handlers). 31 Ask the patient to measure their peak fl ow at intervals at work and at home (at the same time of day) to confi rm
