Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


best to repeat single doses, and be sure to inhale as soon as the drug is in the spacer. SE: local (oral) candidiasis (p377); rate of cataract if lifetime dose ≥2g beclometasone. 37 Prescribe beclometasone by brand name, and state that a CFC-free inhaler should be dispensed. This is because, dose for dose, Qvar® is twice as potent as the other available CFC-free brand (Clenil Modulite®). Any dose ≥250mcg ≈ signifi cant steroid absorption: carry a steroid card; this recom- mendation is being widened, and lower doses (beclometasone) are now said to merit a steroid card (manufacturer’s information). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 118833 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 enicidem tsehC 184 Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) Defi nitions COPD is a common progressive disorder characterized by airway ob- struction (FEV1 <80% predicted; FEV1/FVC <0.7; see p162 and table 4.5) with little or no reversibility. It includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema. Usually patients have either COPD or asthma, not both: COPD is favoured by: •age of onset >35yrs •smok- ing (passive or active) or pollution related38 •chronic dyspnoea •sputum production •minimal diurnal or day-to-day FEV1 variati on. Chronic bronchitis is defi ned clini- cally as cough, sputum production on most days for 3 months of 2 successive yrs. Symptoms improve if they stop smoking. There is no excess mortality if lung func- tion is normal. Emphysema is defi ned histologically as enlarged air spaces distal to terminal bronchioles, with destruction of alveolar walls but often visualized on CT. Prevalence 10–20% of the over-40s; 2.5≈106 deaths/yr worldwide. 39 Pink puff ers and blue bloaters A traditional division but likely ends of a spec- trum. Pink puffers: Have alveolar ventilation, a near normal PaO2 and a normal or low PaCO2. They are breathless but are not cyanosed. They may progress to type I respiratory failure (p188). Blue bloaters: Have alveolar ventilation, with a low PaO2 and a high PaCO2. They are cyanosed but not breathless and may go on to develop cor pulmonale. Their respiratory centres are relatively insensitive to CO2 and they rely on hypoxic drive to maintain respiratory eff ort (p188)—supplemental oxygen should be given with care. Symptoms Cough; sputum; dyspnoea; wheeze. Signs Tachypnoea; use of accessory muscles of respiration; hyperinfl ation; cricosternal distance (<3cm); expansion; resonant or hyperresonant percussion note; quiet breath sounds (eg over bullae); wheeze; cyanosis; cor pulmonale. Complications Acute exacerbations ± infection; polycythaemia; respiratory failure; cor pulmonale (oedema; JVP); pneumothorax (ruptured bullae); lung
