Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


risk factors, consider inves- tigation for possible underlying malignany. Undertake full history, examination (including breast), CXR, FBC, calcium, LFTS, urinalysis. Patients >40yrs consider abdo- pelvic CT and mammography in women. Consider antiphospholipid and thrombo- philia testing if family history positive (p374). Prevention Give heparin to all immobile patients. Stop HRT and the combined con- traceptive pill pre-op (if reliable with another form of contraception). Pneumothorax Caus es Often spontaneous (especially in young, thin men) due to rupture of a sub- pleural bulla. Other causes: asthma; COPD; TB; pneumonia; lung abscess; carcinoma; cystic fi brosis; lung fi brosis; sarcoidosis; connective tissue disorders (Marfan’s syn., Ehlers–Danlos syn.), trauma; iatrogenic (subclavian CVP line insertion, pleural aspira- tion/biopsy, transbronchial biopsy, liver biopsy, +ve pressure ventilation). Clinical features Symptoms: May be asymptomatic (fi t, young, and small pneumo- thorax) or there may be sudden onset of dyspnoea and/or pleuritic chest pain. Pa- tients with asthma or COPD may present with a sudden deterioration. Mechanically ventilated patients may present with hypoxia or an increase in ventilation pressures. Signs: Reduced expansion, hyper-resonance to percussion, and diminished breath sounds on the aff ected side. With a tension pneumothorax, the trachea will be devi- ated away from the aff ected side, p749, p815. Management: See p815. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 119900 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 enicidem tsehC Investigating suspected PE 191 Diagnosis of PE is improved by adopting a stepwise approach, combining an objec- tive probability score, with subsequent investigations, as follows. Assess the clinical probability of a PE: Many systems exist and one of the most frequently used is the modifi ed Wells Criteria (table 4.8). Table 4.8 Modifi ed two-level PE Wells score Feature Score Clinical signs and symptoms of DVT (leg pain and pain on deep palpation 3 of veins) Heart rate >100 beats per minute 1.5 Recently bed-ridden (>3 days) or major surgery (<4 weeks) 1.5 Previous DVT or PE 1.5 Haemoptysis 1 Cancer receiving active treatment , treated in last 6/12, palliative 1 An alternative diagnosis is less likely than PE 3 Score <4 = PE unlikely; score >4 = PE likely Wells PS, Anderson DR, Rodger M, et al. ‘Derivation of a Simple Clinical Model to Categorize Patients Probability of Pulmonary Embolism: Increasing the Models Utility with the SimpliRED D-dimer’. Thromb Haemost 2000; 83: 416–20. PE suspected Calculate modifi ed Wells score Score >4: immediate CTPA or treat Score <4: do D-dimer empirically (LMWH) if delay D dimer
