Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


SimpliRED D-dimer’. Thromb Haemost 2000; 83: 416–20. PE suspected Calculate modifi ed Wells score Score >4: immediate CTPA or treat Score <4: do D-dimer empirically (LMWH) if delay D dimer +ve: immediate CTPA D-dimer Ωve: consider or empiral treatment LMWH alternative diagnosis Length of treatment • Provoked: 3 months and then reassess risk to benefi t profi le (depends on whether risk factor persists) • Unprovoked: treatment is usually continued for >3 months (people with no identifi able risk factor) • Malignancy: continue treatment with LMWH for 6 months or until cure of cancer • Pregnancy: LMWH is continued until delivery/end of pregnancy Fig 4.16 Investigation and management of PE. Direct oral anticoagulants (DOACS) Oral alternatives to warfarin (dabigatran, rivaroxaban, apixaban, edoxaban) have been available for treatment of PE since NICE approval in 2012. They have a rapid onset of action (without the need for LMWH overlap) and can be administered in fi xed doses without the need for continuous monitoring. Monitoring is required to assess compliance, side eff ects (eg bleeding), and presence of VTE. Antidotes for DOACS are becoming available and in the USA idarucizumab is already licensed. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 119911 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 enicidem tsehC 192 Pleural eff usion Defi nitions A pleural eff usion is fl uid in the pleural space. Eff usions can be divided by their protein concentration into transudates (<25g/L) and exudates (>35g/L), see BOX. Blood in the pleural space is a haemothorax, pus in the pleural space is an em- pyema, and chyle (lymph with fat) is a chylothorax. Both blood and air in the pleural space is called a haemopneumothorax. Causes Transudates may be due to venous pressure (cardiac failure, constrictive pericarditis, fl uid overload), or hypoproteinaemia (cirrhosis, nephrotic syndrome, mal- absorption). Also occur in hypothyroidism and Meigs’ syndrome (right pleural eff usion and ovarian fi broma). Exudates are mostly due to increased leakiness of pleural cap- illaries secondary to infection, infl ammation, or malignancy. Causes: pneumonia; TB; pulmonary infarction; rheumatoid arthritis; SLE; bronchogenic carcin oma; malignant metastases; lymphoma; mesothelioma; lymphangitis carcinomatosis. Symptoms Asymptomatic—or dyspnoea, pleuritic chest pain. Signs Decreased expansion; stony dull percussion note; diminished breath sounds occur on the aff ected side. Tactile vocal fremitus and vocal resonance are  (incon- stant and unreliable). Above the eff usion, where lung is compressed, there may be bronchial breathing. With large eff usions there may be tracheal deviation away from the eff usion.
