Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


stant and unreliable). Above the eff usion, where lung is compressed, there may be bronchial breathing. With large eff usions there may be tracheal deviation away from the eff usion. Look for aspiration marks and signs of associated disease: ma- lignancy (cachexia, clubbing, lymphadenopathy, radiation marks, mastectomy scar); stigmata of chronic liver disease; cardiac failure; hypothyroidism; rheumatoid arthri- tis; butterfl y rash of SLE. Tests CXR: Small eff usions blunt the costophrenic angles, larger ones are seen as water-dense shadows with concave upper borders. A completely fl at horizontal up- per border implies that there is also a pneumothorax. Ultrasound is useful in identifying the presence of pleural fl uid and in guiding diag- nostic or therapeutic aspiration. Diagnostic aspiration: Percuss the upper border of the pleural eff usion and choose a site 1 or 2 intercostal spaces below it (don’t go too low or you’ll be in the abdo- men!). Infi ltrate down to the pleura with 5–10mL of 1% lidocaine. Attach a 21G needle to a syringe and insert it just above the upper border of an appropriate rib (avoids neurovascular bundle). Draw off 10–30mL of pleural fl uid and send it to the lab for clinical chemistry (protein, glucose, pH, LDH, amylase), bacteriology (microscopy and culture, auramine stain, TB culture), cytology, and, if indicated, immunology (rheumatoid factor, ANA, complement). See table 4.9. Pleural biopsy: If pleural fl uid analysis is inconclusive, consider parietal pleural biopsy. Thoracoscopic or CT-guided pleural biopsy increases diagnostic yield (by enabling direct visualization of the pleural cavity and biopsy of suspicious areas). Management is of the underlying cause. • Drainage: If the eff usion is symptomatic, drain it, repeatedly if necessary. Fluid is best removed slowly (0.5–1.5L/24h). It may be aspirated in the same way as a diagnostic tap, or using an intercostal drain (see p766). • Pleurodesis with talc may be helpful for recurrent eff usions. Thorascopic mechani- cal pleurodesis is most eff ective for malignant eff usions. Empyemas (p170) are best drained using a chest drain, inserted under ultrasound or CT guidance. • Intra-pleural alteplase and dornase alfa may help with empyema. • Surgery: Persistent collections and increasing pleural thickness (on ultrasound) requires surgery. 50 __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 119922 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 enicidem tsehC Table 4.9 Pleural fl uid analysis 193 Gross appearance Cause Clear, straw-coloured Transudate, exudate Turbid, yellow Empyema, parapneumonic eff usion 5 Haemorrhagic Trauma, malignancy, pulmonary infarction Cytology Neutrophils ++ Parapneumonic
