Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


are not used except where the diagnosis of IPF is in doubt. Prognosis 50% 5yr survival rate (range 1–20yrs). A new treatment emerges for suff erers of IPF Nintedanib and pirfenidone have been shown to slow disease progression and off er some hope to suff erers of IPF. Pirfenidone, an immunosuppressant and antifi brotic agent, showed a reduction in the rate of lung scarring and has been shown to improve life expectancy compared to best supportive care.61 Nintedanib targets three growth factor receptors involved in pulmonary fi brosis. Fig 4.20 Interstitial lung disease due to idiopathic pulmonary fi brosis (a similar appearance to the interstitial oedema of moderate left heart failure, but without a big heart). Courtesy of Prof P Scally. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 220000 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 enicidem tsehC Industrial dust diseases 201 Coal worker’s pneumoconiosis (CWP) A common dust disease in countries that have or have had underground coal-mines. It results from inhalation of coal dust par- ticles (1–3μm in diameter) over 15–20yrs. These are ingested by macrophages which die, releasing their enzymes and causing fi brosis. Clinical features: Asymptomatic, but coexisting chronic bronchitis is common. CXR: many round opacities (1–10mm), especially in upper zone. Management: Avoid exposure to coal dust; treat co-existing chronic bronchitis; claim compensation (in the UK, via the Industrial Injuries Act). Progressive massive fi brosis (PMF) Due to progression of CWP, which causes pro- gressive dyspnoea, fi brosis, and, eventually, cor pulmonale. CXR: usually bilateral, upper-mid zone fi brotic masses (1–10cm), develop from periphery towards hilum. Management: Avoid exposure to coal dust; claim compensation (as for CWP). Caplan’s syndrome The association between rheumatoid arthritis, pneumoc oniosis, and pulmonary rheumatoid nodules. Silicosis (See fi g 4.21.) Caused by inhalation of silica particles, which are very fi bro- genic. A number of jobs may be associated with exposure, eg metal mining, stone quarrying, sandblasting, and pottery/ceramic manufacture. Clinical features: Progressive dyspnoea, incidence of TB, CXR shows diff use miliary or nodular pattern in upper and mid-zones and egg-shell calcifi cation of hilar nodes. Spirometry: restrictive ventilatory defect. Management: Avoid exposure to silica; claim compensation (as for CWP). Asbestosis Caused by inhalation of asbestos fi bres. Asbestos was commonly used in the building trade for fi re proofi ng, pipe lagging, electrical wire insulation, and roofi ng felt. Degree of asbestos exposure is related to degree of pulmonary fi brosis. Clinical features: Similar to other fi brotic lung diseases with
