Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


lagging, electrical wire insulation, and roofi ng felt. Degree of asbestos exposure is related to degree of pulmonary fi brosis. Clinical features: Similar to other fi brotic lung diseases with progressive dyspnoea, clubbing, and fi ne end-inspiratory crackles. Also causes pleural plaques, risk of bronchial adenocarcinoma and mesothelioma. Management: Symptomatic. Patients are often eligible for compensation through the UK Industrial Injuries Act. Mesothelioma See p174. Fig 4.21 PA chest radiograph showing diff use nodular opacities with a focal area of irregular soft tissue shadowing in the right upper zone, consistent with silicosis and developing progressive mas- sive fi brosis (PMF). Image courtesy of Derby Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust Radiology Department. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 220011 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 enicidem tsehC 5 Endocrinology The essence of endocrinology 203 For scientists • Defi ne a syndrome, and match it to a gland malfunction. • Measure the gland’s output in the peripheral blood. Defi ne clinical syndromes associated with too much or too little secretion (hyper- and hypo-syndromes, respectively; eu- means normal, neither  nor , as in euthyroid). Note factors that may make measurement variable, eg diurnal release of cortisol. • If suspecting hormone defi ciency, test by stimulating the gland that produces it (eg short ACTH stimulation test or Synacthen® test in Addison’s). If the gland is not functioning normally, there will be a blunted response to stimulation. • If suspecting hormone excess, test by inhibiting the gland that produces it (eg dexamethasone suppression test in Cushing’s). If there is a hormone-secreting tumour then this will fail to suppress via normal feedback mechanisms. • Find a way to image the gland. NB: non-functioning tumours or ‘incidentalomas’ may be found in health, see p224. Imaging alone does not make the diagnosis. • Aim to halt disease progression; diet and exercise can stop progression of im- paired fasting glucose to frank diabetes. 1, 2 For other glands, halting progression will depend on understanding autoimmunity, and the interaction of genes and environment. In thyroid autoimmunity (an archetypal autoimmune disease), it is possible to track interactions between genes and environment (eg smoking and stress) via expression of immuno logically active molecules (HLA class I and II, adhesion molecules, cytokines, CD40, and complement regulatory proteins). 3 Endocrinologists love this reductionist approach, but have been less successful at understanding emergent phenomena—those properties and performances of ours that cannot be predicted from full knowledge of our perturbed parts. We understand the diurnal
