Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


approach, but have been less successful at understanding emergent phenomena—those properties and performances of ours that cannot be predicted from full knowledge of our perturbed parts. We understand the diurnal nature of cortisol secretion, for example, but the science of relating this to dreams, the consolidation of memory, and the psychopathology of families and other groups (such as the endocrinology ward round you may be about to join) is in its infancy. But as doctors we are steeped in the hormonal lives of patients (as they are in ours)—and we may as well start by recognizing this now. For those doing exams ‘What’s wrong with him?’ your examiner asks, boldly. While you apologize to the patient for this rudeness by asking, ‘Is it alright if we speak about you as if you weren’t here?’, think to yourself that if you were a betting man or woman you would wager that the diagnosis will be endocrinological. In no other disci- pline are gestalt impressions so characteristic. To get good at recognizing these conditions, spend time in endocrinology outpatients and looking at collections of clinical photographs. Also, specifi c cutaneous signs are important, as follows. Thyrotoxicosis: Hair loss; pretibial myxoedema (confusing term, p218); onycho- lysis (nail separation from the nailbed); bulging eyes (exophthalmos/proptosis). Hypothyroidism: Hair loss; eyebrow loss; cold, pale skin; characteristic face. You might, perhaps should, fail your exam if you blurt out ‘Toad-like face’. Cushing’s syndrome: Central obesity and wasted limbs (=‘lemon on sticks’ see fi g 5.2); moon face; buff alo hump; supraclavicular fat pads; striae. Addison’s disease: Hyperpigmentation (face, neck, palmar creases). Acromegaly: Acral (distal) + soft tissue overgrowth; big jaws (macro- gnathia), hands and feet; the skin is thick; facial features are coarse. Hyperandrogenism (): Hirsutism; temporal balding; acne. Hypopituitarism: Pale or yellow tinged thinned skin, resulting in fi ne wrinkling around the eyes and mouth, making the patient look older. Hypoparathyroidism: Dry, scaly, puff y skin; brittle nails; coarse hair. Fig 5.2 ‘Lemon on sticks.’ Pseudohypoparathyroidism: Short stature, short neck, and short 4th and 5th metacarpals. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 220033 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolonircodnE Endocrine physiology 204 Hormones are chemical messengers which act directly on nearby cells (paracrine eff ect), on the cell of origin (autocrine eff ect), at a distant site (endocrine eff ect), or as neurotransmitters (brain and gastrointestinal tract). Thirst, thermal regulation, appetite, sleep cycles, menstrual cycle, and stress/mood are all controlled by the hypothalamus. Releasing
