Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


a distant site (endocrine eff ect), or as neurotransmitters (brain and gastrointestinal tract). Thirst, thermal regulation, appetite, sleep cycles, menstrual cycle, and stress/mood are all controlled by the hypothalamus. Releasing factors produced by the hypothalamus reach the pituitary via the portal system (pituitary stalk), see fi g 5.3. The releasing factors stimulate or inhibit the production of hormones from the anterior pituitary, fi g 5.4. Vasopressin and oxytocin are produced in the hypothalamus and stored and released from the posterior pituitary. Hypothalamus Releasing factors Anterior pituitary Posterior pituitary Prolactin Vasopressin Oxytocin LH/FSH GH TSH ACTH Ovaries and Thyroid Adrenals testes Breasts/ Renal Breasts/ gonads tubules uterus Many tissues Steroids Thyroxine Testosterone/ Lactation oestrogens Fig 5.3 Hypothalamic-pituitary axis. Fig 5.4 Neuroregulation and integration of endocrine axes makes us who we are—and who we are and what we do feeds back into our hormonal milieu. Multifactorial dis ruptions within the growth hormone (GH), luteinizing hormone (LH)–testosterone, adreno cortico tropin (ACTH)–cortisol and insu- lin axes play a major role in healthy maturation and ageing. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 220044 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolonircodnE 205 __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 220055 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolonircodnE 206 Diabetes mellitus (DM): classifi cation and diagnosis DM results from lack, or reduced eff ectiveness, of endogenous insulin. Hyperglycae- mia is one aspect of a far-reaching metabolic derangement, which causes serious microvascular (retinopathy, nephropathy, neuropathy) or macrovascular problems: stroke, MI, renovascular disease, limb ischaemia. So think of DM as a vascular dis- ease:1 adopt a holistic approach and consider other cardiovascular risk factors too. Categories of diabetes and dyslipidaemia Type 1 DM: Usually adolescent onset but may occur at any age. Cause: insulin de- fi ciency from autoimmune destruction of insulin-secreting pancreatic  cells. Pa- tients must have insulin, and are prone to ketoacidosis and weight loss. Associated with other autoimmune diseases (>90% HLA DR3 ± DR4). Concordance is only ~30% in identical twins, indica ting environmental infl uence. Four genes are important: one (6q) determines islet sensitivity to damage (eg from viruses or cross-reactivity from cows’ milk-induced antibodies). Latent autoimmune diabetes of adults (LADA) is a form of type 1 DM, with slower progression to insulin dependence in later life. Type 2 DM: (Formerly non-insulin-dependent DM, NIDDM) is at ‘epidemic’ levels in many places, mainly due to changes in lifestyle, but also because of better diagnosis and improved long evity.4 Higher prevalence in Asians, men, and the elderly (up to 18%). Most are over 40yrs, but
