Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


lowering therapy in adults with type 2 diabetes, Oral hypoglycaemic agents Metformin: A biguanide.  insulin sensitivity and helps weight. SE: nausea; diarrhoea (try modifi ed-release version); abdominal pain; not hypoglycaemia. Avoid if eGFR 36mL/min (due to risk lactic acidosis). DPP4 inhibitors/gliptins: (Eg sitagliptin.) Block the action of DPP-4, an enzyme which destroys the hormone incretin. Glitazone:  insulin sensitivity; SE: hypo glycaemia, fractures, fl uid retention, LFT (do LFT every 8wks for 1yr, stop if ALT up >3-fold). CI: past or present CCF; osteoporosis; monitor weight, and stop if  or oedema. Sulfonylurea:  insulin secretion; eg gliclazide 40mg/d. SE: hypoglycaemia (moni- tor glucose); it  weight. SGLTI: Selective sodium–glucose co-transporter-2 inhibitor. Blocks the reabsorp- tion of glucose in the kidneys and promotes excretion of excess glucose in the urine (eg empaglifl ozin, shown to reduce mortality from cardiovascular disease in patients with type 2 DM, when compared to placebo).8 __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 220088 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolonircodnE Using insulin 209 Vital to educate to self-adjust doses in the light of exercise, fi ngerprick glucose, calorie intake, and carbohydrate counting. •Phone support (trained nurse 7/24). •Can modify diet wisely and avoid binge drinking (danger of delayed hypoglycae- mia). •Partner can abort hypoglycaemia: sugary drinks; GlucoGel® PO if coma (no risk of aspiration). •Dose titration to target—eg by 2–4 UNIT steps. It is vital to write UNITS in full when prescribing insulin to avoid misinterpre- tation of U for zero! Subcutaneous insulins Short-, medium-, or long-acting. Strength: 100U/mL. 1 Ultra-fast acting (Humalog®; Novorapid®); inject at start of meal, or just after (unless sugar-laden)—helps match what is actually eaten (vs what is planned). 2 Isophane insulin (variable peak at4 –12h): favoured by NICE (it’s cheap!). 3 Pre-mixed insulins (eg NovoMix®3 0 = 30% short-acting and 70% long-acting). 4 Long-acting recombinant human insulin analogues (insulin glargine) are used at bedtime in type 1 or 2 DM. There is no awkward peak, so good if nocturnal hypoglycaemia is an issue. Caution if considering pregnancy. Insulin detemir is similar and has a role in intensive insulin regimens for overweight type 2 DM. Common insulin regimens Plan the regimen to suit the lifestyle, not vice versa. Disposable pens: dial dose; insert needle 90° to skin. Vary injection site (outer thigh/abdomen); change needle daily. • ‘BD biphasic regimen’: twice daily premixed insulins by pen (eg NovoMix 30®)— useful in type 2 DM or type 1 with regular lifestyle. •
