Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


(a reduction of HbA1C by at least 11mmol/mol) and a weight loss of at least 3% of initial body weight in 6 months. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 220099 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolonircodnE 210 Complications of established diabetes Prospective studies show that good control of hyperglycaemia is key to preventi ng microvascular complications in type 1 and 2 DM.10 Find out what problems are be- ing experienced (eg glycaemic control, morale, erectile dysfunction—p230). Assess vascular risk BP control (see BOX ‘Controlling blood pressure in diabetes’) is crucial for preventing macrov ascular disease and mortality. Refer to smoking ces- sation services. Check plasma lipids. Look for complications •Check injection sites for infection or lipohypertrophy (fatty change): advise on rotating sites of injection if present. • Vascular disease: Chief cause of death. MI is 4-fold commoner in DM and is more likely to be ‘silent’. Stroke is twice as common. Women are at high risk—DM re- moves the vascular advantage conferred by the female sex. Address other risk factors—diet, smoking, hypertension (p93). Suggest a statin (eg atorvastatin 20mg nocte) for all, even if no overt IHD, vascular disease, or microa lbuminuria. Aspirin 75mg reduces vascular events (in context of secondary prevention). Safe to use in diabetic retinopathy.11 • Nephropathy: (p314.) Microalbuminuria is when urine dipstick is Ωve for protein but the urine albumin:creatinine ratio (UA:CR) is 3mg/mmol (units vary, check lab) refl ecting early renal disease and vascular risk. If UA:CR >3, inhibiting the renin– angiotensin system with an ACE-i or sartan, even if BP is normal, protects the kidneys. Spironolactone may also help.12 Refer if UA:CR >7 ± GFR falling by >5mL/min/1.73m2/yr.13 • Diabetic retinopathy: Blindness is preventable. Annual retinal screening man- datory for all patients. Refer to an ophthalmologist if pre-proliferative changes or if any uncertainty at or near the macula (the only place capable of 6/6 vision). Pre-symptomatic screening enables laser photocoagulation to be used, aimed to stop production of angiogenic factors from the ischaemic retina. Indications: macu- lopathy or proliferative retinopathy. See fi gs 5.6–5.9. • Background retinopathy: Microaneurysms (dots), haemorrhages (blots), and hard exud ates (lipid deposits). Refer if near the macula, eg for intravitreal tri- amcinolone. • Pre-proliferative retinopathy: Cotton-wool spots (eg infarcts), haemorrhag- es, venous beading. These are signs of retinal ischaemia. Refer to a specialist. • Proliferative retinopathy: New vessels form. Needs urgent referral. • Maculopathy: (Hard to see in early stages.) Suspect if acuity. Prompt laser, intra vitreal
