Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


and a cotton-wool spot. Courtesy of Prof J Trobe. Reproduced from Warrell et al, Oxford Textbook of Medicine, 2010, with permission from Oxford University Press. Fig 5.8 Proliferative retinopathy, with new Fig 5.9 Scars from previous laser photocoagu- vessel formation and haemorrhages. lation. Courtesy of Prof J Trobe. Courtesy of Prof J Trobe. Improving quality of life: going beyond the pleasures of the fl esh ‘I cannot eat what I want because of your pitiful diet. Sex is out because diabetes has made me impotent. Smoking is banned, so what’s left? I’d shoot myself if only I could see straight.’ Start by acknowledging your patient’s distress. Don’t shrug it off —but don’t take it at face value either. Life may be transformed by cataract surgery, sildenafi l (unless contraindicated, p230), dietary negotiation, and sport (it needn’t be shooting). Take steps to simplify care. Stop blood glucose self-monitoring if it’s achieving nothing (known to  quality of life). Even if all these interventions fail, you have one trump card up your sleeve: ‘Let’s both try to fi nd one new thing of value before we next meet—and compare notes’. This opens the way to vicarious pleasure: a whole new world. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 221111 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolonircodnE 212 Diabetic neuropathy and diabetic foot care Refer early to foot services (podiatry, imaging, vascular surgery). Amputations are common (135/week)—and preventable: good care saves legs. Examine feet regularly. Distinguish between ischaemia (critical toes ± absent foot pulses and worse outcome) and peripheral neuropathy (injury or infection over pres- sure points, eg the metatarsal heads). In practice, many have both. Neuropathy Sensation in ‘stocking’ distribution: test sensation with a 10g mono- fi lament fi bre (sensory loss is patchy so examine all areas), absent ankle jerks, neuro- pathic deformity (Charcot joint, fi g 5.11): pes cavus, claw toes, loss of transverse arch, rocker-bottom sole. Caused by loss of pain sensation, leading to mech anical stress and repeated joint injury. Swelling, instability, and deformity. Early recognition is vital (cellulitis or osteomyelitis are often misdiagnosed). Ischaemia If the foot pulses cannot be felt, do Doppler pressure measurements. Any evidence of neuropathy or vascular disease raises risk of foot ulceration. Educate (daily foot inspection—eg with a mirror for the sole; comfortable shoes). Regular chiropody to remove callus, as haemorrhage and tissue necrosis may oc- cur below, leading to ulceration. Treat fungal infections (p408). Surgery (including endovascular angioplasty balloons, stents, and
