Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


or gastric pacing. Postural hypotensi on may respond to fl udrocortisone (SE: oedema, BP)/midodrine (-agonist; SE: BP). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 221122 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolonircodnE Preventing loss of limbs: primary or secondary prevention? 213 Traditionally prevention involves foot care advice in diabetic clinics (eg ‘Don’t go bare-foot’), promoting euglycaemia and normotension. But despite this, the sight of a diabetic patient minus one limb is not rare, and must prompt us to redouble our commitment to primary prevention, ie stopping those at risk from ever getting diabetes. The sequelae of diabetic neuropathy can lead to gangrene, amputation, and the impact on quality of life can be profound. As one patient post amputation said, ‘I begin again to walk, on crutches. What nuisance, what fatigue, what sad- ness, when I think about all my ancient travels, and how active I was just 5 months ago! Where are the runnings across mountains, the walks, the deserts, the rivers, and the seas? And now, the life of a legless cripple. For I begin to understand that crutches, wooden and articulated legs, are a pack of jokes…Goodbye to family, goodbye to future! My life is gone, I’m no more than an immobile trunk’ (Arthur Rimbaud. Letter to his sister Isabelle, 10 July 1891). Fig 5.10 Gangrene (toes 2, 4, and 5). Fig 5.11 Charcot (neuropathic) joint. Reproduced from Warrell et al, Oxford Reproduced from Warrell et al, Oxford Textbook of Medicine, 2010, with per- Textbook of Medicine, 2010, with per- mission from Oxford University Press. mission from Oxford University Press. Special situations in diabetes Pregnancy: (OHCS p23) 4% are complicated by DM: either pre-existing (<0.5%), or new-onset gestational diabetes (GDM) (>3.5%). • All forms carry an increased risk to mother and fetus: miscarriage, pre-term labour, pre-eclampsia, congenital malformations, macrosomia, and a worsening of diabetic complications, eg retinopathy, nephropathy. • Risk of GDM  if: aged over 25; family history; +ve; weight; non-Caucasian; HIV+ve; previous gestational DM. • Pre-conception: off er general advice, and discuss risks. Control/reduce weight, aim for good glucose control, off er folic acid 5mg/d until 12 weeks. • Screen for GDM with OGTT if risk factors at booking (16–18 weeks if previous GDM). • Oral hypoglycaemics other than metformin should be discontinued. Metformin may be used as an adjunct or alternative to insulin in type 2 DM or GDM. 6wks postpartum, do a fasting glucose. Even if Ωve, 50% go on to develop DM. Surgery:
