Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


occur in insulinoma. Imaging CT/MRI ± endoscopic pancreatic US ± IACS (see BOX; all fallible, so don’t waste too much time before proceeding to intra-operative visualization ± intra-operative ul- trasound). 18F-L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine PET-CT can help guide laparoscopic surgery. Treatment Excision. Nesidioblastosis See BOX. If this doesn’t work, options are: diet, diazoxide, dextrose IVI, enteral feeding, everolimus.  Diabetic ketoacidosis Results from insulin defi ciency (eg unknown diagnosis, intercurrent illness, interuption of insulin therapy). See p832. Pursuing a voyage to the islets of Langerhans to the bitter end A 50-year-old had episodic early-morning sweats and tremors and was found to have hyperinsulinaemic hypoglycaemia (= Nesidioblastosis). Selective intra- arterial calcium infusions (IACS) showed a 2-fold increase in insulin secretion after infusion of the splenic and superior mesenteric arteries, so setting the stage for ‘hunt the insulinoma’. But cross-sectional imaging and endoscopic ultrasound were normal. At lapa- rotomy, no lesion was found despite mobilization of the pancreas, or during intra- operative ultrasound. ‘Time to sew up and go home?’ ‘No!’ said the surgeon, ‘I’m going to do a distal pancreatectomy’. Histology showed no discrete insulinoma, but diff use islet cell hyper plasia (nesidioblastosis). How much pancreas to resect? Too little and nothing is gained: too much spells pancreatic endocrine disaster. Luckily the surgeon guessed right, and the patient was cured by the procedure.16 __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 221155 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolonircodnE 216 Thyroid function tests (TFTs) Physiology Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH=thyro tropin), a glycoprotein, is produced from the anterior pituitary (fi g 5.12). The thyroid produces mainly T4, which is 5-fold less active than T3. 85% of T3 is formed from peripheral conversion of T4. Most T3 and T4 in plasma is protein bound, eg to thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG). The unbound por- tion is the active part. T3 and T4 cell metabolism, via nuclear receptors, and are thus vital for growth and mental development. They also catecholamine eff ects. Thyroid hormone abnormalities are usually due to problems in the thyroid gland itself, and rarely caused by the hypothalamus or the anterior pituitary. TRH from the hypothalamus acts on the pituitary gland Fig 5.12 Pathways involved in thyroid function. Basic tests See table 5.2. Free T4 and T3 are more useful than total T4 and T3 as the latter are aff ected by TBG. Total T4 and T3 are  when TBG is  and vice versa. TBG is  in pregnancy, oestrogen therapy (HRT, oral contraceptives), and hepatitis.
