Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


of Graves’ disease: 1 Eye disease (BOX ‘Thyroid eye disease’): exoph th almos, ophthalmoplegia. 2 Pretibial myxoedema: oedematous swellings above lateral malleoli: the term myxoedema is confusing here. 3 Thyroid acropachy: extreme manifestation, with clubbing, painful fi nger and toe swelling, and periosteal reaction in limb bones. Tests TSH (suppressed), T4, and T3. There may be mild normocytic anaemia, mild neu- tropenia (in Graves’), ESR, Ca2+, LFT. Also: Check thyroid autoantibodies. Isotope scan if the cause is unclear, to detect nodular disease or subacute thyroiditis. If ophthal- mopathy, test visual fi elds, acuity, and eye movem ents (see BOX ‘Thyroid eye disease’). Causes Graves’ disease: Prevalence: 0.5% (⅔ of cases of hyperthyroidism). :≈9:1. Typical age: 40–60yrs (younger if maternal family history). Cause: circulating IgG autoan- tibodies binding to and activating G-protein-coupled thyrotropin receptors, which cause smooth thyroid enlargement and hormone production (esp. T3), and react with orbital autoantigens. Triggers: stress; infection; childbirth. Patients are often hyperthyroid but may be, or become, hypo- or euthyroid. It is associated with other autoimmune diseases: vitiligo, type 1 DM, Addison’s (table 5.3). Toxic multinodular goitre: Seen in the elderly and in iodine-defi cient areas. There are nodules that secrete thyroid hormones. Surgery is indicated for compressive symptoms from the enlarged thyroid (dysphagia or dyspnoea). Toxic adenoma: There is a solitary nodule producing T3 and T4. On isotope scan, the nodule is ‘hot’ (p216), and the rest of the gland is suppressed. Ectopic thyroid tissue: Metastatic follicular thyroid cancer, or struma ovarii: ovar- ian teratoma with thyroid tissue. Exogenous: Iodine excess, eg food contamination, contr ast media (thyroid storm, p834, if already hyperthyroid). Levothyroxine excess causes T4, T3, thyro globulin. Others: 1 Subacute de Quervain’s thyroiditis: self-limiting post-viral with painful goitre, T° ± ESR. Low isotope uptake on scan. : NSAIDS. 2 Drugs: amiodarone (p220), lithium (hypothyroidism more common). 3 Postpartum. 4 TB (rare). Treatment 1 Drugs: -blockers (eg propranolol 40mg/6h) for rapid control of symptoms. Anti- thyroid medication: two strategies (equally eff ective):17 A Titration, eg carbima zole 20–40mg/24h PO for 4wks, reduce according to TFTs every 1–2 months. B Block- replace: Give carbimazole + levothyroxine simultaneously (less risk of iatrogenic hypothyroidism). In Graves’, maintain on either regimen for 12–18 months then withdraw. ~50% will relapse, requiring radioiodine or surgery. Carbimazole SE: agranulocytosis (n eutrophils, can lead to dangerous sepsis; rare (0.03%)); warn to stop and get an urgent FBC if signs of infection,
