Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


will relapse, requiring radioiodine or surgery. Carbimazole SE: agranulocytosis (n eutrophils, can lead to dangerous sepsis; rare (0.03%)); warn to stop and get an urgent FBC if signs of infection, eg T°, sore throat/mouth ulcers. 2 Radioiodine ( 131I): Most become hypothyroid post-treatment. There is no evi- dence for cancer, birth defects, or infertility in women. CI: pregnancy, lactation. Caution in active hyperthyroidism as risk of thyroid storm (p835). 3 Thyroidectomy (usually total): Carries a risk of damage to recurrent laryngeal nerve (hoarse voice) and hypoparathyroidism. Patients will become hypothyroid, so thyroid replacement needed. 4 In pregnancy and infancy: Get expert help. See OHCS p24 & OHCS p182. Complications Heart failure (thyrotoxic cardiomyopathy,  in elderly), angina, AF (seen in 10–25%: control hyperthyroidism and war farinize if no contraindication), osteoporosis, ophthalmopathy, gynaecomastia. Thyroid storm (p835). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 221188 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolonircodnE Thyroid eye disease 219 Seen in 25–50% of people with Graves’ disease. The main known risk factor is smoking. The eye disease may not correlate with thyroid disease and the patient can be euthyroid, hypothyroid, or hyperthyroid at presentation. Eye disease may be the fi rst presenting sign of Graves’ disease, and can also be worsened by treat- ment, typically with radioiodine (usually a transient eff ect). Retro-orbital infl am- mation and lymphocyte infi ltration results in swelling of the orbit. Symptoms Eye discomfort, grittiness, tear production, photophobia, diplopia, acuity, aff erent pupillary defect (p72) may mean optic nerve compression: Seek expert advice at once as decompression may be needed. Nerve damage does not necessarily go hand-in-hand with protrusion. Indeed, if the eye cannot protrude for anatomical reasons, optic nerve compression is more likely—a paradox! Signs Exophthalmos—appearance of protruding eye; proptosis—eyes protrude beyond the orbit (look from above in the same plane as the forehead); conjunctival oedema; corneal ulceration; papilloedema; loss of colour vision. Ophth almoplegia (especially of upward gaze) occurs due to muscle swelling and fi brosis. Tests Diagnosis is clinical. CT/MRI of the orbits may reveal enlarged eye muscles. Management Get specialist help. Treat hyper- or hypothyroidism. Advise to stop smoking (worse prognosis). Most have mild disease that can be treated sympto- matically (artifi cial tears, sunglasses, avoid dust, elevate bed when sleeping to periorbital oedema). Diplopia may be managed with a Fresnel prism stuck to one lens of a spectacle (aids easy changing as the exophthalmos changes). In more se- vere disease, try high-dose steroids (IV methylprednisolone
