Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


; 2% of users will get signifi - cant thyroid problems from it. Hypothyroidism can be caused by toxicity from io- dine excess (T4 release is inhibited). Thyrotoxicosis may be caused by a destructive thyroiditis causing hormone release. Here, radioiodine uptake can be undetectable and if this is the case, glucocorticoids may help. Get expert help. Thyroidectomy may be needed if amiodarone cannot be discontinued. T ½ of amiodarone ≈80d, so problems persist after withdrawal. If on amiodarone, check TFTS 6-monthly. Myxoedema coma The ultimate hypothyroid state before death. See p834. 3 Treat the patient not the blood level! No exact cut-off in TSH can be given partly because risk of death from heart disease mirrors TSH even when in the normal range in women. Risk ≈ 1.4 if TSH 1.5–2.4 vs 1.7 if TSH 2.5–3.5. If TSH >3.65 and possibly symptomatic, a low dose of levothyroxine may be tried. Monitor symptoms, TSH and T4 carefully. Over-exposure to thyroxine may cause osteoporosis ± AF. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 222200 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolonircodnE Why are symptoms of thyroid disease so various, and so subtle? 221 Almost all our cell nuclei have receptors showing a high affi nity for T3: that known as TR-1 is abundant in muscle and fat; TR-2 is abundant in brain; and TR-1 is abundant in brain, liver, and kidney. These receptors, via their infl uence on various enzymes, aff ect the following processes: • The metabolism of substrates, vitamins, and minerals. • Modulation of all other hormones and their target-tissue responses. • Stimulation of O2 consumption and generation of metabolic heat. • Regulation of protein synthesis, and carbohydrate and lipid metabolism. • Stimulation of demand for co-enzymes and related vitamins. Subclinical thyroid disease Subclinical hypothyroidism Suspect if TSH >4mU/L with normal T4 and T3, and no symptoms. It is common: ~10% of those >55yrs have TSH. Risk of progression to frank hypothyroidism is ~2%, and increases as TSH; risk doubles if thyroid peroxi- dase antibodies are present, and is also increased in men. Management: • Confi rm that raised TSH is persistent (recheck in 2–4 months). • Recheck the history: if any non-specifi c features (eg depression), discuss benefi ts of treating (p220) with the patient—maybe they will function better. • Have a low threshold for carefully supervised treatment as your patient may not be so asymptomatic after all, and cardiac deaths may be prevented. Treat if: 1 TSH ≥10mu/L.
