Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


• Have a low threshold for carefully supervised treatment as your patient may not be so asymptomatic after all, and cardiac deaths may be prevented. Treat if: 1 TSH ≥10mu/L. 2 +ve thyroid autoantibodies. 3 Past (treated) Graves’. 4 Other organ-specifi c autoimmunity (type 1 DM, myasthenia, pernicious anaemia, viti- ligo), as they are more likely to progress to clinical hypothyroidism. If TSH 4–10, and vague symptoms, treat for 6 months—only continue if symptoms improve (or the patient is trying to conceive). If the patient does not fall into any of these categories, monitor TSH yearly. • Risks from well-monitored treatment of subclinical hypothyroidism are small (but there is an risk of atrial fi brillation and osteoporosis if over-treated). Subclinical hyperthyroidism occurs when TSH, with normal T4 and T3. There is a 41% increase in relative mortality from all causes versus euthyroid control subjects—eg from AF and osteoporosis. Management: • Confi rm that suppressed TSH is persistent (recheck in 2–4 months). • Check for a non-thyroidal cause: illness, pregnancy, pituitary or hypothalamic insuffi ciency (suspect if T4 or T3 are at the lower end of the reference range), use of TSH-suppressing medication, eg thyroxine, steroids. • If TSH <0.1, treat on an individual basis, eg with symptoms of hyperthyroidism, AF, unexplained weight loss, osteoporosis, goitre. • Options are carbimazole or propylthiouracil—or radioiodine therapy. • If no symptoms, recheck 6-monthly. Fig 5.16 Facial appearance in hypothyroidism. Look for: pallor; coarse, brittle, diminished hair (scalp, axillary, and pubic); dull or blank express ion lack ing sparkle; coarse features; puff y lids. These signs are subtle: have a low thresh old for meas uring TSH. Reproduced from Cox and Roper, Clinical Skills, 2005, with permission from Oxford University Press. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 222211 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolonircodnE 222 Parathyroid hormone and hyperparathyroidism Parathyroid hormone (PTH) is normally secreted in response to low ionized Ca2+ levels, by four parathyroid glands situated posterior to the thyroid (p601). The glands are controlled by Ωve feedback via Ca2+ levels. PTH acts by: •osteoclast activity releasing Ca2+ and PO43Ω from bones •Ca2+ and PO43Ω reabsorption in the kidney •active 1,25 dihydroxy-vitamin D3 production is . Overall eff ect is Ca2+ and PO43Ω. Primary hyperparathyroidism Causes: ~80% solitary adenoma, ~20% hyper plasia of all glands, <0.5% parathyroid cancer. Presentation: Often ‘asymp tomatic’ (not in retro- spect!), with Ca2+ on routine tests. Signs relate to: 1 Ca2+ (p676): weak, tired, depressed, thirsty, dehydrated-but-polyuric;
