Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


and b is the ret proto-oncogene, a receptor tyrosine kinase. Tests for ret mutations are revolu tion izing MEN-2 treatment by enabling a prophylactic thyroidectomy to be done before neoplasia occurs, usually before 3yrs of age. NB: ret mutations rarely contribute to sporadic parathyroid tumours. Autoimmune polyendocrine syndromes Autoimmune disorders cluster into two defi ned syndromes: Type 1 Autosomal recessive, rare. Cause: Mutations of AIRE (Auto ImmuneREgulator) gene on chromosome 21. Features: •Addison’s disease. •Chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis. •Hypo- parathyroidism. Also associated with hypogonadism, pernicious anaemia, autoim- mune primary hypothyroidism, chronic active hepatitis, vitiligo, alopecia. Type 2 HLA D3 and D4 linked, common. Cause: Polygenic. Features: •Addison’s disease. •Type 1 diabetes mellitus (in 20%). • Autoimmune thyroid disease—hypothyroidism or Graves’ disease. Also associated with primary hypogonadism, vitiligo, alopecia, pernicious anae- mia, chronic atrophic gastritis, coeliac disease, dermatitis herpetiformis. Fig 5.18 Pseudohypopara- Fig 5.19 Cerebral calcifi cation in pseudohypopara thyroid- thyroidism: short 4th and 5th ism: periventricular (left) and basal ganglia (right). metacarpals. Courtesy of Professor Peter Scally. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 222233 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolonircodnE 224 Adrenal cortex and Cushing’s syndrome Physiology The adrenal cortex produces steroids: 1 Glucocorticoids (eg cortisol), which aff ect carbohydrate, lipid, and protein metabolism. 2 Mineralocorticoids, which control sodium and potassium balance (eg aldosterone, p668). 3 Androgens, sex hormones which have weak eff ect until peripheral conversion to testosterone and dihydrotestosterone. Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) from the hypothala- mus stimulates ACTH secretion from the pituitary, which in turn stimulates cortisol and androgen production by the adrenal cortex. Cortisol is excreted as urinary free cortisol and various 17-oxogenic steroids. Cushing’s syndrome This is the clinical state produced by chronic glucocorticoid excess + loss of the normal feedback mechanisms of the hypothalamo–pituitary– adrenal axis and loss of circadian rhythm of cortisol secretion (normally highest on waking). The chief cause is oral steroids. Endogenous causes are rare: 80% are due to ACTH; of these a pituitary adenoma (Cushing’s disease) is the commonest cause. 1 ACTH-dependent causes (ACTH) • Cushing’s disease: Bilateral adrenal hyperplasia from an ACTH-secreting pituitary adenoma (usually a microadenoma, p234). :>1:1. Peak age: 30–50yrs. A low- dose dexamethasone test (BOX) leads to no change in plasma cortisol, but 8mg may be enough to more than halve morning cortisol (as occurs in normals). • Ectopic ACTH production: Especially small cell lung cancer and carcinoid tum- ours, p271. Specifi c features: pigmentation (due to ACTH), hypokalaemic metabolic alkalosis (cortisol leads to mineralocorticoid activity),
