Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


chest, abdomen, and pelvis ± MRI of neck, thorax, and abdomen, eg for small ACTH secreting carcinoid tumours. Fig 5.20 Hypercortisolism weakens skin; even normal stretching (or the pressure of obesity, as here) can make its elastin break— on healing we see these depressed purple scars (striae). Cortisone or rapid growth con- tributes to striae in other contexts: pregnan- cy, adolescence, weight lifting, sudden-onset obesity, or from strong steroid creams. Striae mature into silvery crescents looking like the underside of willow leaves. Unsightly imma- ture striae may be improved by YAG lasers. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 222255 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolonircodnE 226 Addison’s disease (adrenal insuffi ciency) Primary adrenocortical insuffi ciency (Addison’s disease) is rare (~0.8/100 000), but can be fatal. Destruction of the adrenal cortex leads to glucocorticoid (cortisol) and mineralocorticoid (aldosterone) defi ciency (see fi g 5.21). Signs are capricious: it is ‘the unforgiving master of non-specifi city and disguise’.23 You may diagnose a viral infection or anorexia nervosa in error (K+ is  in the latter but  in Addison’s). Physiology: Fig 5.21 Pathways involved in adrenal function. Causes: 80% are due to autoimmunity in the UK. Other causes: TB (commonest cause worldwide), adrenal metastases (eg from lung, breast, renal cancer), lymphoma, op- portunistic infections in HIV (eg CMV, Mycobacterium avium, p400); adrenal haem- orrhage (Waterhouse–Friderichsen syndrome p714; antiphosphol ipid syndrome; SLE), congenital (late-onset congenital adrenal hyperplasia). Secondary adrenal insuffi ciency The commonest cause is iatrogenic, due to long- term steroid therapy leading to suppression of the pituitary–adrenal axis. This only becomes apparent on withdrawal of the steroids. Other causes are rare and include hypothalamic–pituitary disease leading to ACTH production. Mineralocorticoid pro- duction remains intact, and there is no hyperpigmentation as ACTH. Symptoms Often diagnosed late: lean, tanned, tired, tearful ± weakness, anorexia, dizzy, faints, fl u-like myalgias/arthralgias. Mood: depression, psychosis. GI: nausea/ vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhoea/constipation. Think of Addison’s in all with un- explained abdominal pain or vomiting. Pigmented palmar creases & buccal mucosa (ACTH; cross-reacts with melanin receptors). Postural hypotension. Vitiligo. Signs of critical deterioration (p836): Shock (BP, tachycardia), T°, coma. Tests Na+ & K+ (due to mineralocorticoid), glucose (due to cortisol). Also: urae- mia, Ca2+, eosinophilia, anaemia. : Short ACTH stimulation test (Synacthen® test): Do plasma cortisol before and ½h after tetracosactide (Synacthen®) 250mcg IM. Addis on’s is excluded if 30min cortisol >550nmol/L. Steroid drugs may interfere with assays: ask lab. NB: in pregnancy and contraceptive pill, cortisol
