Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


1 month is—cooking herself a pasta meal. Then, totally exhausted will sleep more in pm, then eat some dinner. Goes to bed at 11pm—latest. Not able to concentrate...Used to weigh 45kg. Now weighs 42kg.’24 Placed on a page about Addison’s disease, we might think there are suffi cient clues to raise the suspicion of Addison’s (even though her electrolytes were not particularly awry, and her pigmentation was barely perceptible). But change the context to our last busy clinic. We are a little distracted. The memory of Addison’s is fading. Who among us will hear the alarm bell ring? 4 Autoimmune polyglandular syndromes types 1–4: 1 Monogenic syndrome (AIRE gene on chromosome 21); signs: candidiasis, hypoparathyroidism + Addison’s. 2 (Schmidt syndrome.) Adrenal insuffi ciency + auto immune thyroid disease ± DM ± pleuritis /pericarditis. 3 Autoimmune thyroid disease + other autoimmune conditions but not Addison’s. 4 Autoimmune combinations not included in 1–3. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 222277 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolonircodnE 228 Hyperaldosteronism Primary hyperaldosteronism Excess production of aldosterone, independent of the renin–angiotensin system, causing sodium and water retention, and renin re- lease. Consider if: hypertension, hypokalaemia, or alkalosis in someone not on diuret- ics. Sodium tends to be mildly raised or normal. Symptoms: Often asymptomatic or signs of hypokalaemia (p674): weakness (even quadriparesis), cramps, paraesthesiae, polyuria, polydipsia. BP but not always. Causes: ~ ⅔ due to a solitary aldosterone-producing adenoma (linked to mutations in K+ channels)5—Conn’s syndrome. ~ ⅓ due to bilateral adrenocortical hyperplasia. Rare causes: adrenal carcinoma; or glucocorticoid-remediable aldosteronism (GRA)— the ACTH regulatory element of the 11-hydroxylase gene fuses to the aldosterone synthase gene, aldosterone production, & bringing it under the control of ACTH. Tests: U&E, renin and aldosterone, and adrenal vein sampling. Do not rely on a low K+, as >20% are normokalaemic. For GRA (suspect if there is a family history of early hypertension), genetic testing is available. Treatment: •Conn’s: laparoscopic adrenalectomy. Spironolactone (25–100mg/24h PO) for 4wks pre-op controls BP and K+. •Hyperplasia: treated medically: spironolactone or amiloride. •GRA: dexametha- sone 1mg/24h PO for 4wks, normalizes biochemistry but not always BP. If BP is still , use spironolactone as an alternative. •Adrenal carcinoma: surgery ± post-operative adrenolytic therapy with mitotane—prognosis is poor. Secondary hyperaldosteronism Due to a high renin from renal perfusion, eg in renal artery stenosis, accelerated hypertension, diuretics, CCF, or hepatic failure. Bartter’s syndrome This is a major cause of congenital (autosomal recessive) salt wasting—via a sodium and
