Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


renal perfusion, eg in renal artery stenosis, accelerated hypertension, diuretics, CCF, or hepatic failure. Bartter’s syndrome This is a major cause of congenital (autosomal recessive) salt wasting—via a sodium and chloride leak in the loop of Henle via mutations in channels and transporters. Presents in childhood with failure to thrive, polyuria, and polydipsia. BP is normal. Sodium loss leads to volume depletion, causing renin and aldosterone production, leading to hypokalaemia and metabolic alkalosis, urinary K+ and ClΩ. Treatment: K+ replacement, NSAIDS (to inhibit prostaglandins), and ACE-i. Phaeochromocytoma Rare catecholamine-producing tumours. They arise from sympathetic paragan- glia cells (=phaeo chrome bodies), which are collections of chromaffi n cells. They are usually found within the adrenal medulla. Extra-adrenal tumours (para- gangliomas) are rarer, and often found by the aortic bifurcation (the organs of Zuckerkandl). Phaeochromocytomas roughly follow the 10% rule: 10% are malignant, 10% are extra-adrenal, 10% are bilateral, and 10% are familial. Re- cent data suggest higher preponderance in patients with genetic mutations aff ecting several genes including SDH (succinyl dehydrogenase). Thus, family his- tory is crucial and referral for genetic screening (particularly <50 years old). A dangerous but treatable cause of hypertension (in <0.1%). Associations ~90% are sporadic; 10% are part of hereditary cancer syndromes (p215), eg thyroid, MEN-2A and 2B, neurofi bromatosis, von Hippel–Lindau syndrome (SDH mutations). Classic triad Episodic headache, sweating, and tachycardia (± , , or BP, see BOX ‘Features of phaeochromocytoma’). Tests •Biochemical: 24h urine for metanephrines/metadrenaline (better than cat- echolamines and vanillylmandelic acid25), WCC. •Localization: Abdominal CT/MRI, or meta-iodob enzylguanidine (chromaffi n-seeking isotope) scan (can fi nd extra- adrenal tumours, p738). Treatment Surgery: -blockade pre-op: pheno xybenzamine (-blocker) is used before -blocker to avoid crisis from unopposed -adrenergic stimulation, -block too if heart disease or tachycardic. Consult the anaesthe- tist. Post-op: Do 24h urine metanephrine 2wks post-op, monitor BP (risk of BP). Emergency  : p837. If malignant, chemotherapy or therapeutic radiolabelled MIBG may be used. Follow-up: Lifelong: malignant recurrence may present late, genetic screening. 5 Tumours from the zona glomerulosa, zona fasciculata, or zona reticularis associate with syndromes of  mineralocorticoids, glucocorticoids, or androgens respectively, usually; remember ‘GFR≈miner GA’. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 222288 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolonircodnE Hypertension: a common context for hyperaldosteronism tests 229 Think of Conn’s in these contexts: • Hypertension associated with hypokalaemia. • Refractory hypertension, eg despite ≥3 antihypertensive drugs. • Hypertension occurring before 40yrs of age (especially in women). The approach to
