Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


amenorrhoea, fertility, libido, os- teoporosis, breast atrophy, dyspareunia.  Erectile dysfunction, libido, muscle bulk, hypogonadism (hair, all over; small testes; ejaculate volume; spermatogenesis). •Thyroid: as for hypothyroidism (p220). •Corticotropin: as for adrenal insuffi ciency (p226). NB: no skin pigmentation as ACTH. •Prolactin: rare: absent lactation. 2 Causes: Eg pituitary tumour (p234), causing mass eff ect, or hormone secretion with secretion of other hormones—eg prolactinoma, acromegaly, rarely Cushing’s. Tests (The triple stimulation test is now rarely done.) • Basal tests: LH and FSH ( or ), testosterone or oestradiol (); TSH ( or ), T4 (); prolactin (may be , from loss of hypothalamic dopamine that normally inhibits its release), insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1; —used as a measure of GH axis, p238), cortisol (). Also do U&E (Na+from dilution), Hb (normochromic, normocytic). • Dynamic tests: 1 Short Synacthen® test: (p226) to assess the adrenal axis. 2 Insulin tolerance test (ITT): done in specialist centres to assess the adrenal and GH axes. CI: epilepsy, heart disease, adrenal failure. Consult lab fi rst. It involves IV insu- lin to induce hypoglycaemia, causing stress to cortisol and GH secretion. It is done in the morning (water only taken from 22:00h the night before). Have 50% glucose and hydrocortisone to hand and IV access. Glucose must fall below 2.2mmol/L and the patient should bec ome symptomatic when cortisol and GH are taken. Normal: GH >20mU/L, and peak cortisol >550nmol/L. 3 Arginine + growth hormone-releasing hormone test. 4 Glucagon stimulation test is alternative when ITT is contraindicated. • Investigate cause: MRI scan to look for a hypothalamic or pituitary lesion. Treatment Refer to an endocrinologist for assessment of pituitary fuction and to oversee hormone replacement and treatment of underlying cause. • Hydrocortisone for 2° adrenal failure (p226) before other hormones are given. • Thyroxine if hypothyroid (p220, but TSH is useless for monitoring). • Hypogonadism (for symptoms and to prevent osteoporosis). : options include testosterone enan thate 250mg IM every 3 weeks, daily topical gels or buccal muco adhesive tablets. Patches (eg Testogel®) are also used. : (premenopausal). Oestrogen: transdermal oestradiol patches, or contrac eptive pill (exceeds replace- ment needs) ± testosterone or dehydroepi androsterone (DHEA, in hypo androgenic women; a small amount may improve well-being and sexual function, and help bone mineral density and lean body mass). • Gonadotropin therapy is needed to induce fertility in both men and women. • Growth hormone (GH). Somatotrophin
