Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


hemi- anopia, due to compression of the optic chiasm), palsy of cranial nerves III, IV, VI (pressure or invasion of the cavernous sinus; fi g 5.25). Also, diabetes insipidus (DI) (p240; more likely from hypothalamic disease); disturbance of hypothalamic centres of T°, sleep, and appetite; erosion through fl oor of sella leading to CSF rhinorrhoea. Tests MRI defi nes intra- and supra-sellar extension; accurate assessment of visual fi elds; screening tests: PRL, IGF-1 (p238), ACTH, cortisol, TFTS, LH/FSH, testosterone in , short Synacthen® test. Glucose tolerance test if acromegaly suspected (p238). If Cushing’s suspected, see p225. Water deprivation test if DI is suspected (p240). Treatment Start hormone replacement as needed (p232). Ensure steroids are given before levothyroxine, as thyroxine may precipitate an adrenal crisis. For Cushing’s disease see p225, prolactinoma p236, acromegaly p238. • Surgery: (fi g 5.26) Most pituitary surgery is trans-sphenoidal, but if there is supra- sellar extension, a trans-frontal approach may be used. For prolactinoma, 1st-line treatment is medical with a dopamine agonist, p236. Pre-op: ensure hydrocortisone 100mg IV/IM. Subsequent cortisol replacement and reasse ssment varies with local protocols: get advice. Post-op: retest pituitary function (p232) to assess replace- ment needs. Repeating dynamic tests for adrenal function ≥6 weeks post-op. • Radiotherapy: (Eg stereotactic.) Good for residual or recurrent adenomas (good rates of tumour control and normalization of excess hormone secretion).27 Post-op Recurrence may occur late after surgery, so life-long follow-up is required. Fertility should be discussed: this may be reduced post-op due to gonadotropins. Pituitary apoplexy Rapid pituitary enlargement from a bleed into a tumour may cause mass eff ects, cardiovascular collapse due to acute hypopituita rism, and death. Suspect if acute onset of headache, meningism, GCS, ophthalmop legia/visual fi eld defect, especially if there is a known tumour (may present like suba rachnoid haem- orrhage). : Urgent steroids (hydrocortisone 100mg IV) and meticulous fl uid balance ± cabergoline (dopamine agonist, if prolactinoma) ± surgery; fi nd the cause, eg a predisposition to thrombosis, from antiphospholipid syndrome. Craniopharyngioma Not strictly a pituitary tumour: it originates from Rathk e’s pouch so is situated between the pituitary and 3rd ventricle fl oor. They are rare, but are the commonest childhood intracranial tumour. Over 50% present in childhood with growth failure; adults may present with amenorrhoea, libido, hypothalamic symptoms (eg DI, hyperphagia, sleep disturbance) or tumour mass eff ect. Tests: CT/ MRI (calcifi cation in 50%, may also be
