Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


by compression of the pituitary stalk, reducing local dopamine levels. 3 Use of a dopamine antagonist. A PRL of 1000–5000mU/L may re- sult from any, but >5000 is likely to be due to a prolactinoma, with macroadenomas (>10mm) having the highest levels, eg 10 000–100 000. • Physiological: Pregnancy; breastfeeding; stress. Acute rises occur post-orgasm.11 • Drugs (most common cause): Metoclop ramide; haloperidol; methyldopa; oes- trogens; ecstasy/MDMA;12 antipsychotics (a reason for ‘non-compliance’: sustained hyperprolactinaemia may cause libido, anorgasmia, and erectile dysfunction). • Diseases: Prolactinoma: micro- or macroadenoma; Stalk damage: pituitary ad- enomas, surgery, trauma; Hypot halamic disease: craniopharyngioma, other tu- mours; Other: hypothyroidism (due to TRH), chronic renal failure (excretion). Symptoms : Amenorrhoea or oligomenorrhoea; infertility; galactorrhoea (fi g 5.27). Also: libido, weight, dry vagina. : Erectile dysfunction, facial hair, galactorrhoea. May present late with osteoporosis or local pressure eff ects from the tumour (p234). Tests Basal PRL: non-stressful venepuncture between 09.00 and 16.00h. Do a preg- nancy test, TFT, U&E. MRI pituitary if other causes are ruled out. Management Refer to a specialist endocrinology clinic. Dopamine agonists (bro- mocriptine or cabergoline) are 1st line. Microprolactinomas: A tumour <10mm on MRI (~25% of us have asymptomatic microprolactinomas). Bromocriptine, a dopamine agonist, PRL secretion, restores menstrual cycles and tumour size. Dose is titrated up: 1.25mg PO; increase weekly by 1.25–2.5mg/d until ~2.5mg/12h. SE: nausea, depression, postural hypotension (mini- mize by giving at night). If pregnancy is planned, use barrier contraception until 2 periods have occurred. If subsequent pregnancy occurs, stop bromocriptine after the 1st missed period. An alternative dopamine agonist is cabergoline: more eff ec- tive and fewer SE, but there are fewer data on safety in pregnancy. NB: ergot alkaloids (bromocriptine and cabergoline) can cause fi brosis (eg echocardiograms are need- ed). Trans-sphenoidal surgery may be considered if intolerant of dopamine agonists. It has a high success rate, but there are risks of permanent hormone defi ciency and prolactinoma recurrence, and so it is usually reserved as a 2nd-line treatment. Macroprolactinomas: A tumour >10mm diameter on MRI. As they are near the optic chiasm, there may be acuity, diplopia, ophthalmoplegia, visual-fi eld loss, and op- tic atrophy. Treat initially with a dopamine agonist (bromocriptine if fertility is the goal). Surgery is rarely needed , but consider if visual symptoms or pressure eff ects which fail to respond to medical treatment. Bromocriptine, and in some cases radia- tion therapy, may be
