Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


are physiological as well as metaphorical.14,15 The changes of acromegaly are not so insidious that the patient thinks all is fi ne: there is often partial knowledge and a few dark thoughts on looking into the mirror. Even when we lay our lives end-to-end for inspection (fi g 5.28), changes are subtle. It can take the observations of others to force us to come face-to-face with the truth of our new unfolding self. In one patient the comment was ‘So are you pregnant again?’ ‘Why do you ask?’ ‘Because your nose is as big as it was when you were last pregnant’. So here we have the well-known ‘physiological acromegaly of pregnancy’14 predating the pathological, as the carni- val of personal identity moves from helter-skelter to roller-coaster. 14 GH variants made by the placenta rise exponentially until 37wks’ gestation; pituitary GH gradually drops to near-undetectable levels. ‘Gestational acromegaly’ probably develops to foster fetoplacental growth; its side-eff ects include facial oedema, carpal tunnel symptoms, and nose enlargement. 15 Puberty sees GH- and gonad-mediated rises in bone and muscle mass + other ‘acromegalic’ eff ects. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 223399 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolonircodnE 240 Diabetes insipidus (DI) Physiology This is the passage of large volumes (>3L/day) of dilute urine due to impaired water resorption by the kidney, because of reduced ADH secretion from the posterior pituitary (cranial DI) or impaired response of the kidney to ADH (nephro- genic DI). Symptoms Polyuria; polydipsia; dehydration; symptoms of hypernatraemia (p672). Polydipsia can be uncontrollable and all-consuming, with patients drinking anything and everything to hand: in such cases, if beer is on tap, disaster will ensue! Causes of cranial DI •Idiopathic (50%). •Congenital: defects in ADH gene, DIDMOAD.16 •Tumour (may present with DI + hypopituitarism): craniopharyn gioma, metastases, pituitary tumour. •Trauma: temporary if distal to pituitary stalk as proximal nerve endings grow out to fi nd capillaries in scar tissue and begin direct secretion again. •Hypophysectomy. •Autoimmune hypophysitis (p232). •Infi ltration: histiocytosis, sarcoid o sis.17 •Vascular: haemorrhage.18 •Infection: meningoencephalitis. Causes of nephrogenic DI •Inherited. •Metabolic: low potassium, high calcium. •Drugs: lithium, demeclocycline. •Chronic renal disease. •Post-obstructive uropathy. Tests U&E, Ca2+, glucose (exclude DM), serum and urine osmolalities. Serum osmo l ality estimate ≈ 2 ≈ (Na+ + K+) + urea + glucose (all in mmol/L). Normal plasma osmolality is 285–295mOsmol/kg, and urine can be concentrated to more than twice this concentra- tion. Signifi cant DI is excluded if urine
