Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


amputation was needed. He needed looking after by his wife Aurelia. But she had her children Warren and Sylvia to look after too. And when Otto was no longer the bread-winner, she forced herself to work as a teacher, an accountant, and at any other job she could get. Otto’s illness manifested in Aurelia’s duodenum—as an ulcer. The gut often bears the brunt of other people’s worries. Inside every piece of a gut is a lumen1—the world is in the gut, and the gut is in the world. But the light does not always shine. So when the lumen fi lled with Aurelia’s blood, we can expect the illness to impact on the whole family. Her daughter knows where blood comes from (‘straight from the heart … pink fi zz’). After Otto died, Sylvia needed long-term psychiatric care, and Aurelia moved to be near her daughter. The bleeding duodenal ulcer got worse when Syl- via needed electroconvulsive therapy. The therapy worked and now, briefl y, Sylvia, before her own premature death, is able to look after Aurelia, as she prepares for a gastrectomy. The story of each illness told separately misses something; but even taken in its social context, this story is missing something vital—the poetry, in most of our patients lived rather than written—tragic, comic, human, and usually obscure—but in the case of this family not so obscure. Welling up, as unstoppable as the bleeding from her mother’s ulcer came the poetry of Sylvia Plath. 1 Lumen is Latin for light (hence its medical meaning of a tubular cavity open to the world at both ends), as well as being the SI unit of light fl ux falling on an object—ie the power to i lluminate. All doctors have this power, whether by insightfully interpreting patients’ lives and illnesses to them, or by acts of kindness— even something so simple as bringing a cup of tea. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 224433 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygoloretneortsaG 244 Healthy, enjoyable eating ‘There’s a lot of people in this world who spend so much time watching their health that they haven’t the time to enjoy it.’ Josh Billings (1818–85). Updates to guidelines on healthy eating perhaps provide fodder for journalists who have been served a diet both rich and varied in apparently contradictory advice. Nonetheless, for many of our increasingly overweight population, simply eating less (eg 2500 calories/d for men and 2000 for women) and balancing
