Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


both rich and varied in apparently contradictory advice. Nonetheless, for many of our increasingly overweight population, simply eating less (eg 2500 calories/d for men and 2000 for women) and balancing in- take across food groups seems a sensible start. Diet is of course not independent of lifestyle, and we should continue to promote a balanced diet in the context of the full range of public health messages. Unravelling these confounding threads in population-level data will always pose a challenge—while some studies show veg- etarians may be less likely to die from ischaemic heart disease, is this eff ect because vegetarians in the UK are more likely to be non-smokers? Overly proscriptive applica- tion of such population-level data in advice given to individuals (as journalists may be prone to do) will always be fl awed and risks drowning important fundamental concepts in a sea of cynicism. Current recommendations must take into account three facts • Obesity costs health services as much as smoking—1 in 4 UK adults is obese. • Diabetes mellitus is burgeoning: in some places prevalence is >7% (p206). • Past advice has not changed eating habits in large sections of the population. Advice is likely to focus on the following Body mass index: (BMI; table 6.1.) Aim for 18.5–25. Controlling quantity may be more important than quality. In hypertension, eating the ‘right’ things lowers BP only mar- ginally, but controlling weight causes a more signifi cant reduction. Base meals on starch: (Bread, rice, potatoes, pasta.) These provide a slower re- lease form of carbohydrate compared to diets containing refi ned sugar, and be- ware of the high sugar contents of, eg soft drinks. Eat enough fruit and vegetables: Aiming for 5 portions a day. Eat foods high in fat, salt, or sugar infrequently. Eat some meat, fi sh, eggs, and beans: Aim for 2 portions of fi sh a week, includ- ing oily fi sh (those rich in omega-3 fatty acid, such as mackerel, herring, pilchards, salmon). Non-dairy sources of protein include beans and nuts. Aim to reduce intake of red or processed meat to <70g/day. Eat some milk and dairy products: Select those options with lower fat, sugar and salt where possible. Moderate alcohol use (adults <65yrs): 14U/wk for both men and women, spread over 3 or more days. There is no ‘safe’ level. Supplements: There is scant evidence for most nutritional supplements in those able to
