Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


distribution of body fat, and is harder to interpret for children and adolescents. Waist circumference >94cm in men and >80cm in women refl ects omental fat and correlates better with risk than does BMI. BMI is still a valid way of comparing populations: average BMI in the USA is 28.8; in Japan, 22. A nation can be lean without being poor. As nations continue to adopt the lifestyle trends of the USA, this impacts sustainability. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 224455 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygoloretneortsaG 246 The mouth The diagnosis will often come out of your patient’s mouth, so open it! So many GI investigations are indirect...now is your chance for direct observation. Leucoplakia (fi g 6.2) Is an oral mucosal white patch that will not rub off and is not attributable to any other known disease. It is a premalignant lesion, with a transformation rate, which ranges from 0.6% to 18%. Oral hairy leucoplakia is a shaggy white patch on the side of the tongue seen in HIV, caused by EBV. When in doubt, refer all intra-oral white lesions (see BOX). Aphthous ulcers (fi g 6.3) 20% of us get these shallow, painful ulcers on the tongue or oral mucosa that heal without scarring. Causes of severe ulcers: Crohn’s and coeliac disease; Behçet’s (p694); trauma; erythema multiforme; lichen planus; pemphigus; pemphigoid; infections (herpes simplex, syphilis, Vincent’s angina, p712). : Minor ulcers: avoid oral trauma (eg hard toothbrushes or foods such as toast) and acidic foods or drinks. Tetracycline or antimicrobial mouth- washes (eg chlorhexidine) with topical steroids (eg triamcinolone gel) and topical analgesia. Severe ulcers: possible therapies include systemic corticosteroids (eg oral prednisolone 30–60mg/d PO for a week) or thalidomide (absolutely contraindi- cated in pregnancy). Biopsy any ulcer not healing after 3 weeks to exclude mal- ignancy; refer to an oral surgeon if uncertain. Candidiasis (thrush) (fi g 6.4) Causes white patches or erythema of the buccal mu- cosa. Patches may be hard to remove and bleed if scraped. Risk factors: Extremes of age; DM; antibiotics; immunosuppression (long-term corticosteroids, including in- halers; cytotoxics; malignancy; HIV). : Nystatin suspension 400 000U (4mL swill and swallow/6h). Fluconazole for oropharyngeal thrush. Cheilitis (angular stomatitis) Fissuring of the mouth’s corners is caused by denture problems, candidiasis, or defi ciency of iron or ribofl avin (vitamin B2). (fi g 8.5, p327.) Gingivitis Gum infl ammation ± hypertrophy occurs with poor oral hygiene, drugs (phenytoin, ciclosporin, nifedipine), pregnancy, vitamin C
