Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


• Hairy oral leucoplakia • Lichen planus • Lupus erythematosus • Poor dental hygiene • Smoking • Candidiasis • Aphthous stomatitis • Squamous papilloma • Secondary syphilis. Fig 6.2 Leucoplakia on the underside of the Fig 6.3 An aphthous ulcer inside the cheek. The tongue. It is important to refer leucoplakia be- name is tautological: aphtha in Greek means cause it is premalignant. ulceration. Fig 6.4 White fur on an erythematous tong ue Fig 6.5 Microstomia (small, narrow mouth), caused by oral candidiasis. Oropharyngeal can- eg from hardening of the skin in sclero derma didiasis in an apparently fi t patient may sug- which narrows the mouth. It is cosmeti cally and gest underlying HIV infection. functionally disabling.1 Fig 6.6 White bands on the teeth can be caused by excessive fl uoride intake. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 224477 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygoloretneortsaG 248 Endoscopy and biopsy Consent is needed for all these procedures; see p568. Upper GI endoscopy Indications: See table 6.2. Pre-procedure: Stop PPIS 2wks pre- op if possible ( pathology-masking). Nil by mouth for 6h before. Don’t drive for 24h if sedation is used. Procedure: Sedation optional, eg midazolam 1–5mg slowly IV (to remain conscious; if deeper sedation is needed, propofol via an anaesthetist (narrow therapeutic range)); nasal prong O2 (eg 2L/min; monitor respirations & oximetry). The pharynx may be sprayed with local anaesthetic before the endoscope is passed. Con- tinuous suction must be available to prevent aspiration. Complications: Sore throat; amnesia from sedation; perforation (<0.1%); bleeding (if on aspirin, clopidogrel, war- farin, or DOACS these need stopping only if therapeutic procedure). Duodenal biopsy: The gold standard test for coeliac disease (p266); also useful in unusual causes of malabsorption, eg giardiasis, lymphoma, Whipple’s disease. Sigmoidoscopy Views the rectum + distal colon (to ~splenic fl exure). Flexible sigmoidoscopy has largely displaced rigid sigmoidoscopy for diagnosis of distal colonic pathology, but ~25% of cancers are still out of reach. It can be used thera- peutically, eg for decompression of sigmoid volvulus (p611). Preparation: Phosphate enema PR. Procedure: Learn from an expert; do PR exam fi rst. Do biopsies—macro- scopic appearances may be normal, eg IBD, amyloidosis, microscopic colitis. Colonoscopy Indications: See table 6.3. Preparation: Stop iron 1wk prior; dis- cuss with local endoscopy unit bowel preparation and diet required. Procedure: Do PR fi rst. Sedation (see earlier in topic) and analgesia are given before colonoscope is passed and guided around the colon. Complications: Abdominal
