Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


coagulation for suspected treatment refractory, p252) vascular abnormality Duodenal biopsy (?coeliac) Stent insertion, laser therapy Persistent vomiting Stricture dilatation, polyp resection Iron defi ciency (cancer) Table 6.3 Indications for colonoscopy Diagnostic indications Therapeutic indications Rectal bleeding—when settled, if acute Haemostasis (eg by clipping vessel) Iron-defi ciency anaemia (bleeding cancer) Bleeding angiodysplasia lesion (argon Persistent diarrhoea beamer photocoagulation) Positive faecal occult blood test Colonic stent deployment (cancer) Assessment or suspicion of IBD Volvulus decompression (fl exi sig) Colon cancer surveillance Pseudo-obstruction Polypectomy Fig 6.7 A big polyp seen on colonoscopy. An Fig 6.8 Colonoscopic image of an adenocar- advantage of colonoscopy over barium enema cinoma—p616. Compared with a colonic polyp is the ability to biopsy or intervene at the same (fi g 6.7), the carcinoma is irregular in shape and time—in this case, polypectomy. colour, larger and more aggressive. Image courtesy of Dr Anthony Mee. Image courtesy of Dr J Simmons. Fig 6.9 Angio dysplasia lesion seen at colonosco- Fig 6.10 Colonic mucosa in active UC (p262); it py. Bleeding may be brisk. : endoscopic oblitera- is red, infl amed, and friable (bleeds on touch- tion. It is associated with aortic stenosis (Heyde’s ing). Signs of severity: muco purulent exudate, syndrome).2 mucosal ulceration ± spontaneous bleeding. If Image courtesy of Dr Anthony Mee. quiescent, there may only be a distorted or ab- sent mucosal vascular pattern. Image courtesy of Dr J Simmons. Fig 6.11 Colonoscopic image showing divertic- ulosis (p628). Navigating safely through the co- lon, avoiding the false lumina of the diverticula, can be a challenge. Don’t go there if diverticula are infl amed (diverticulitis): perforation is a big risk. Other CI to colonoscoy: MI in last month; ischaemic colitis (Oxford Handbook of Gastro- enterology and Hepatology, Second Edition (Bloom et al.), p165). Image courtesy of Dr J Simmons. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 224499 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygoloretneortsaG 250 Dysphagia Dysphagia is diffi culty in swallowing and should prompt urgent investigation to exclude malignancy (unless of short duration, and associated with a sore throat). Causes Oral, pharyngeal, or oesophageal? Mechanical or motility related? (See BOX ‘Causes of dysphagia’.) Five key questions to ask 1 Was there diffi culty swallowing solids and liquids from the start? Yes: motility disorder (eg achalasia, CNS, or pharyngeal causes). No: Solids then liquids: suspect a stricture (benign or malignant). 2 Is it diffi cult to initiate a swallowing movement? Yes: Suspect bulbar palsy, especially if patient coughs on swallowing.
