Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


• Peutz–Jeghers’ syndrome use. Is there serious co- • Malignancy • Osler–Weber–Rendu morbidity (bad prognosis), • No obvious cause syndrome. eg cardiovascular disease, respiratory disease, hepatic or renal impairment, or malignancy? Look for signs of chronic liver disease (p276) and do a PR to check for melaena. Is the patient shocked? Also: • Peripherally cool/clammy; capillary refi ll time >2s; urine output <0.5mL/kg/h. • GCS (tricky to assess in decompensated liver disease) or encephalopathy (p275). • Tachycardic (pulse >100bpm). • Systolic BP <100mmHg; postural drop >20mmHg. • Calculate the Rockall score (tables 6.6, 6.7). Acute management (p820.) Skill in resuscitation determines survival, so get good at this! Summary:5 start by protecting the airway and giving high-fl ow O 2, then:  Insert 2 large-bore (14–16G) IV cannulae and take blood for FBC (early Hb may be normal because haemodilution has not yet taken place), U&E (urea out of propor- tion to creatinine indicative of massive blood meal), LFT, clotting, and crossmatch.  Give IV fl uids (p821) to restore intravascular volume while waiting for cross- matched blood. If haemodynamically deteriorating despite fl uid resuscitation, give group O RhΩve blood. Avoid saline if cirrhotic/varices.  Insert a urinary catheter and monitor hourly urine output.  Organize a CXR, ECG, and check ABG.  Consider a CVP line to monitor and guide fl uid replacement.  Transfuse (with crossmatched blood if needed) if signifi cant Hb drop (<70g/L).  Correct clotting abnormalities (vitamin K (p274), FFP, platelets).  If suspicion of varices then give terlipressin IV eg 1–2mg/6h for ≤3d; relative risk of death  by 34%. Initiate broad-spectrum IV antibiotic cover.  Monitor pulse, BP, and CVP (keep >5cmH2O) at least hourly until stable.  Arrange an urgent endoscopy (p248).  If endoscopic control fails, surgery or emergency mesenteric angiography/ embolization may be needed. For uncontrolled oesophageal variceal bleeding, a Sengstaken–Blakemore tube may compress the varices, but should only be placed by someone with experience. Further management Anatomy is important in assessing risk of rebleeding. Posterior DUs are highest risk as they are nearest to the gastroduodenal artery. • Re-examine after 4h and consider the need for FFP if >4 units transfused. • Hourly pulse, BP, CVP, urine output (4hrly if haemo dynamically stable may be OK). • Transfuse to keep Hb >70g/L; ensure a current valid group & save sample. • Check FBC, U&E, LFT, and clotting daily. • Keep
