Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


NSAIDS and PPIS. Stop the off ending drug where possible. Treat with budesonide. 14 Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-secreting tumour; suspect if  K+and acidosis;  Ca2+;  Mg2+. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 225588 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygoloretneortsaG Managing infective diarrhoea* 259 No systemic signs Systemic illness: Special circumstances: • Fever >39°C; dehydration • Food poisoning • Diarrhoea + visible blood outbreak (=dysentery) for >2wks • Travel (p428 & p430) • Recent antibiotic use • Rectal intercourse • Admit to hospital; oral fl uids • Immunocompromised Symptomatic  • Consider presumptive † unle ss • Raw seafood ingestion a non-infectious cause is found Stool culture Prompt, direct faecal Routine culture not needed smear (then culture) and microscopy. Ask microbiologist about  Polymorphs seen No polymorphs seen Parasites seen Likely culture: Likely culture: Specifi c , eg • Shigella† • Salmonella† p432–435 • Campylobacter • E. coli • E. coli • C. diffi cile (see BOX More rarely: ‘Clostridium diffi cile’) • C. diffi cile (see BOX Culture Ωve causes: ‘Clostridium diffi cile’) • eg Norovirus (eg with • Yersinia enterocolitica projectile vomiting, • Salmonella p430) Fig 6.20 Managing infective diarrhoea. *Be aware of local pathogens, and be prepared to close wards and hospitals if contagion is afoot. †Prompt specifi c : eg ciprofl oxacin 500mg/12h PO for 6d may be needed before sensitivities are known. Metronidazole is also tried, as Giardia is a common cause of watery diarrhoea in travellers. Clostridium diffi cile: the cause of pseudomembranous colitis First isolated from stools of healthy neonates, C. diffi cile was named owing to dif- fi culties in culture. Today, ‘diffi cile’ might better refer to challenges of containment. Signs: T°; colic; diarrhoea with systemic upset—CRP, WCC, albumin, and colitis (with yellow adherent plaques on infl amed non-ulcerated mucosa—the pseudomembrane) progressing to toxic megacolon and multi-organ failure. Asymptomatic carriage: 2–5% of all adults. Only problematic with gut ecology disrupted by, eg antibiotics, leading to rapid proliferation and toxin expression. Predictors of fulminant C. diff colitis: >70yrs, past C. diff infection; use of anti- peristaltic drugs; severe leucocytosis; haemodynamic instability. Detection: Urgent testing of suspicious stool (characteristic smell—ask the nurses). Two-stage process with rapid screening test for C. diff protein (or PCR) followed by specifi c ELISA for toxins. AXR for toxic megacolon. : Stop causative antibiotic if possible. Mild disease: metronidazole 400mg/8h PO for 10–14d (vanco mycin 125mg/6h PO is better in severe disease). Intensive regimens of vancomycin
