Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


AXR for toxic megacolon. : Stop causative antibiotic if possible. Mild disease: metronidazole 400mg/8h PO for 10–14d (vanco mycin 125mg/6h PO is better in severe disease). Intensive regimens of vancomycin 500mg/6h with IV and PR vancomycin may be needed for non-respond- ers. Urgent colectomy may be needed if toxic megacolon, LDH, or if deteriorating. Recurrent disease: Common (≈25%). Fidaxomicin, a minimally absorbed oral an- tibiotic, is associated with lower relapse rates. Faecal transplantation (introduction of a suspension prepared from the faeces of a screened donor via endoscopy or via NG/NJ tube) is a highly eff ective, if aesthetically unappealing, method of treatment. Preventing spread: Meticulous cleaning and appropriate bed management policies, use of disposable gloves and aprons, hand-washing (not just gel—kill the spores). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 225599 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygoloretneortsaG 260 Constipation Constipation refl ects pelvic dysfunction or transit time. Accepted defi nitions and reported rates vary, but a place to start is the passage of ≤2 bowel motions/wk, often passed with diffi culty, straining, or pain, and a sense of incomplete evacua- tion. :≈2:1. Doctors’ chief concerns are to fi nd pointers to major pathology, eg constip ation + rectal bleeding ≈ cancer; constipation + distension + active bowel sounds ≈ stricture/GI obstruction; constipation + menorrhagia ≈ hypothyroidism. The patient Ask about frequency, nature, and consistency of stools. Is there blood or mucus in/on the stools? Is there diarrhoea alternating with constipation (eg IBS, p266)? Has there been recent change in bowel habit? Is she digitating the rectum or vagina to pass stool?15 Ask about diet and drugs. PR examination is essential even when referring (refer if signs of colorectal ca, eg weight, pain, or anaemia). Tests None in young, mildly aff ected patients. Threshold for investigation di- minishes with age; triggers include:6 weight, abdominal mass, +PR blood, iron defi ciency anaemia. Blood: FBC, ESR, U&E, Ca2+, TFT. Colonoscopy: If suspected colo- rectal malignancy. Transit studies; anorectal physiology; biopsy for Hirschprung’s are occasionally needed. Treatment Often reassurance, drinking more, and diet/exercise advice (p245) is all that is needed. Treat causes (BOX ‘Causes of constipation’). A high-fi bre diet is often advised, but may cause bloating without helping constipation. Only use drugs if these measures fail, and try to use them for short periods only. Often, a stimulant such as senna ± a bulking agent is more eff ective and cheaper than agents such as lactulose. Bulking agents: Faecal mass, so stimulating
