Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


short periods only. Often, a stimulant such as senna ± a bulking agent is more eff ective and cheaper than agents such as lactulose. Bulking agents: Faecal mass, so stimulating peristal- sis. They must be taken with plenty of fl uid and may take a few days to act. CI: diffi culty in swallowing; GI obstruction; colonic atony; faecal impaction. Bran powder 3.5g 2–3 times/d with food (may hinder absorption of dietary trace ele- ments if taken with every meal). Ispaghula husk, eg 1 Fybogel® sachet after a meal, mixed in water and swallowed promptly (or else it becomes an unpleasant sludge). Methylcellulose, eg Celevac® 3–6 tablets/12h with ≥300mL water. Ster- culia, eg Normacol® granules, 10mL sprinkled on food daily. Stimulant laxatives: Increase intestinal motility, so do not use in intestinal obstruction or acute colitis. Avoid prolonged use as it may cause colonic atony. Abdominal cramps are an important SE. Pure stimulant laxatives are bisacodyl tablets (5–10mg at night) or suppositories (10mg in the mornings) and senna (2–4 tablets at night). Docusate sodium and dantron16 have stimulant and softening actions. Glycerol supposito- ries act as a rectal stimulant. Sodium picosulfate (5–10mg at night) is a potent stimulant. Stool softeners: Particularly useful when managing painful anal condi- tions, eg fi ssure. Arachis oil enemas lubricate and soften impacted faeces. Liquid paraffi n should not be used for a prolonged period (SE: anal seepage, lipoid pneu- monia, malabsorption of fat-soluble vitamins). Osmotic laxatives: Retain fl uid in the bowel. Lactulose, a semisynthetic disaccharide, produces osmotic diarrhoea of low faecal pH that discourages growth of ammonia-producing organisms. It is useful in hepatic encepha lopathy (initial dose: 30–50mL/12h). SE: bloating, so its role in treating constipation is limited. Macrogol (eg Movicol®) is another ex- ample. Magnesium salts (eg magnesium hydroxide; magnesium sulfate) are use- ful when rapid bowel evacuation is required. Sodium salts (eg Microlette® and Micralax® enemas) should be avoided as they may cause sodium and water re- tention. Phosphate enemas are useful for rapid bowel evacuation prior to proce- dures. If these don’t help Prucalopride is an elective 5HT4 agonist with prokinetic prop- erties; Lubiprostone is a chloride-channel activator that increases intestinal fl uid secretion; Linaclotide is a guanylate cyclase-C agonist that also increases fl uid se- cretion and decreases visceral pain. A multidisciplinary approach with behaviour therapy, habit training ± sphincter biofeedback may help. 15 Rectocele: front wall of the rectum
