Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


also increases fl uid se- cretion and decreases visceral pain. A multidisciplinary approach with behaviour therapy, habit training ± sphincter biofeedback may help. 15 Rectocele: front wall of the rectum bulges into the back wall of the vagina. 16 Dantron causes colon & liver tumours in animals, so reserve use for the very elderly or terminally ill. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 226600 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygoloretneortsaG Causes of constipation 261 General • Hypokalaemia (p674) • Poor diet ± lack of exercise • Porphyria • Poor fl uid intake/dehydration • Lead poisoning. • Irritable bowel syndrome Drugs (Pre-empt by diet advice.) • Old age • Opiates (eg morphine, codeine) • Post-operative pain • Anticholinergics (eg tricyclics) • Hospital environment (priv acy; hav- • Iron ing to use a bed pan). • Some antacids, eg with aluminium Anorectal disease (Esp. if painful.) • Diuretics, eg furosemide  Anal or colorectal cancer • Calcium channel blockers. • Fissures (p630), strictures, herpes Neuromuscular (Slow transit from • Rectal prolapse decreased propulsive activity.) • Proctalgia fugax (p630) • Spinal or pelvic nerve injury (eg trau- • Mucosal ulceration/neoplasia ma, surgery) • Pelvic muscle dysfunction/levator • Aganglionosis (Chagas’ disease, ani syndrome. Hirschsprung’s disease) Intestinal obstruction • Systemic sclerosis  Colorectal carcinoma (p616) • Diabetic neuropathy. • Strictures (eg Crohn’s disease) Other causes • Pelvic mass (eg fetus, fi broids) • Chronic laxative abuse (rare—diar- • Diverticulosis (rectal bleeding is a rhoea is commoner) commoner presentation) • Idiopathic slow transit • Pseudo-obstruction (p611). • Idiopathic megarectum/colon. Metabolic/endocrine • Hypercalcaemia (p676) • Hypothyroidism (rarely presents with constipation) Defi ning gastrointestinal dysfunction—the Rome criteria ‘Here was history in the stones of the street and the atoms of the sunshine... she went about in a kind of repressed ecstasy of contemplation, seeing often... a great deal more than was there.’ Henry James, The Portrait of a Lady. While the tools of contemporary gastroenterology are well placed to explore the comparatively simple domains of structural lesions and infl ammation, for those patients troubled by ‘functional’ disorders of motility and pain, we lack methods to understand nervous activity in their guts. Instead, unlike James’ heroine Isabel Archer, as she explored late 19th-century Rome, we are left seeing a greal deal less than perhaps is there. The failure to see, then becomes a failure to comprehend (the endoscopy and CT were normal, so there must be nothing wrong?)—then a failure to believe and ultimately to treat an
