Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


failure to see, then becomes a failure to comprehend (the endoscopy and CT were normal, so there must be nothing wrong?)—then a failure to believe and ultimately to treat an illness. Before we subject any intervention to the rigors of medical trials, we should fi rst agree a classifi cation of the disease process we are aiming to treat. Some of medi- cine’s darkest alcoves refl ect less a lack of potential treatments and more a lack of any agreement on where classifi cation boundaries lie. Failure to defi ne and distin- guish pathologies then leads to a literature studded with small confl icting studies on heterogeneous patients which feeds a perception of a condition as ‘untreatable’. There is nothing romantic about constipation, and gastrointestinal dysfunction in general, other than the association of the defi nitions of these disorders with Rome. By the late 1980s, these confused areas exemplifi ed the above-described challenges. Recognition of the need for order and classifi cation to support studies led to an international collaboration, born out of the University of Rome. A process of expert debate and discussion reached consensus defi nitions that could support scientifi c studies. The experts then periodically reconvene in the eternal city to revisit and evaluate these ‘Rome consensus’ defi nitions. Rather more prosaically, the Rome foundation itself is now headquartered in Raleigh, North Carolina, USA. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 226611 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygoloretneortsaG 262 Ulcerative colitis (UC) UC is a relapsing and remitting infl ammatory disorder of the colonic mucosa. It may aff ect just the rectum (proctitis, as in ~30%) or extend to involve part of the colon (left- sided colitis, in ~40%) or the entire colon (pancolitis, in ~30%). It ‘never’ spreads proxi- mal to the ileocaecal valve (except for backwash ileitis). Cause Inappropriate immune response against (?abnormal) colonic fl ora in genetically susceptibile individuals. Pa- thology Hyperaemic/haemorrhagic colonic mucosa ± pseudop olyps formed by in- fl ammation. Punctate ulcers may extend deep into the lamina propria—infl ammation is norm ally not transmural. Continuous infl ammation limited to the mucosa diff erenti- ates it from Crohn’s disease. Prevalence 100–200/100 000. Incid ence 10–20/100 000/ yr; typically presents ~20–40yrs. UC is 3-fold as common in non-smokers (the opposite is true for Crohn’s disease)—symptoms may relapse on stopping smoking. Symptoms Episodic or chronic diarrhoea (± blood & mucus); crampy abdomi nal dis comfort; bowel frequency relates to severity (see table 6.8);
