Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Copper Stomach + jejunum Menkes’ kinky hair syndrome Fluoride Stomach Dental caries Iodide Small intestine Goitre; cretinism Iron Duodenum + jejunum Microcytic anaemia (p326) Magnesium Small intestine p679 Phosphate Small intestine Osteoporosis; anorexia; weakness Selenium Small intestine Cardiomyopathy (p679) Zinc Jejunum Acrodermatitis enteropathica; poor wound healing (p679) F = fat-soluble vitamin, thus defi ciency is likely if there is fat malabsorption. 21 That oranges and lemons prevent ‘the scurvy’ was noted by the naval surgeon James Lind in 1753. In what may rank as the fi rst ever clinical trial, he randomly divided 12 sailors with scurvy into 6 groups, given the same basic diet but each group received a unique dietary intervention. The 2 sailors receving oranges and lemons both made a good recovery, unlike the other 10. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 226688 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygoloretneortsaG Food mountains, the pellagra paradox, and the sorrow that weeping 269 cannot symbolize ‘The sweet smell is a great sorrow on the land. Men who can graft the trees and make the seed fertile and big can fi nd no way to let the hungry people eat their produce … The works of the roots of the vines, of the trees, must be destroyed to keep up the price … There is a crime here that goes beyond denunciation. There is a sorrow here that weeping cannot symbolize. There is a failure here that topples all our suc- cess. The fertile earth, the straight tree rows, the sturdy trunks, and the ripe fruit. And children dying of pellagra must die because a profi t cannot be taken from an orange. And coroners must fi ll in the certifi cates—died of malnutri- tion—because the food must rot, must be forced to rot. The people come with nets to fi sh for potatoes in the river, and the guards hold them back; they come in rattling cars to get the dumped oranges, but the kerosene is sprayed. And they stand still and watch the potatoes fl oat by, listen to the screaming pigs being killed in a ditch and covered with quicklime, watch the mountains of oranges slop down to a putrefying ooze; and in the eyes of the people there is a failure; and in the eyes of the hungry there is a growing wrath. In the souls of the people the grapes of wrath are fi lling and growing heavy, growing heavy for the vintage.’ (J
