Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


of the hungry there is a growing wrath. In the souls of the people the grapes of wrath are fi lling and growing heavy, growing heavy for the vintage.’ (J Steinbeck The Grapes of Wrath) How do John Steinbeck’s grapes grow in our 21st-century soil? Too well; a double harvest, it turns out, as not only is much of the world starving, amid plenty (for those who can pay) but also there is a new ‘sorrow in our land that weeping cannot symbolize’: pathological ‘voluntary’ self-starvation, again amid plenty, in pursuit of the body-beautiful according to images laid down by media gods. If gastroenterologists had one wish it might not be the end ing of all their diseases, but that humankind stand in a right relationship with Steinb eck’s fer- tile earth, his straight trees, his sturdy trunks, and his ripe fruit. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 226699 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygoloretneortsaG 270 Chronic pancreatitis Epigastric pain ‘bores’ through to the back, eg relieved by sitting forward or hot water bottles on epigastrium/back (look for erythema ab igne’s mottled dusky greyness); bloating; steatorrhoea; weight; brittle diabetes. Symptoms relapse and worsen. Causes Alcohol; smoking; autoimmune; rarely: familial; cystic fi brosis; haemochro- matosis; pancreatic duct obstruction (stones/tumour); congenital (pancreas divisum). Tests Ultrasound ± CT: pancreatic calcifi cations confi rm the diagnosis, MRCP; AXR. Speckled calcifi cation; faecal elastase. Treatment Drugs: Give analgesia (coeliac-plexus block may give brief relief); lipase, eg Creon®; fat-soluble vitamins. Insulin needs may be high or variable (beware hy- poglycaemia). Diet: No alcohol; low fat may help. Medium-chain triglycerides (MCT oil) may be tried (no lipase needed for absorpt ion, but diarrhoea may be worsened). Surgery: For unremitting pain; narcotic abuse (beware of this); weight: eg pancrea- tectomy or pancreaticojejunostomy (a duct drainage procedure). Complications Pseudocyst; diabetes; biliary obstruction; local arterial aneurysm; splenic vein thrombosis; gastric varices; pancreatic carcinoma. Carcinoma of the pancreas Epidemiology ≈3% of all malignancy; ~9000 deaths/yr (UK). UK incidence is rising. Typical patient  >70yrs old. Risk factors Smoking, alcohol, carcinogens, DM, chronic pancreatitis, waist circumference (ie adiposity), and possibly a high-fat and red or processed meat diet. Pathology Mostly ductal adenocarcinoma (meta stasize early; present late). 60% arise in the pancreas head, 25% in the body, 15% tail. A few arise in the ampulla of Vater (ampullary tumour) or pancreatic islet cells (insulinoma, gastrinoma, glucagonomas, somatostatinomas (p223), VIPomas); both have a better prognosis. Genetics ~95% have mutations in the
