Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


few arise in the ampulla of Vater (ampullary tumour) or pancreatic islet cells (insulinoma, gastrinoma, glucagonomas, somatostatinomas (p223), VIPomas); both have a better prognosis. Genetics ~95% have mutations in the KRAS2 gene. The patient Tumours in the head of the pancreas present with painless obstruc- tive jaundice. 75% of tumours in the body and tail present with epigastric pain (ra- diates to back and relieved by sitting forward). Either may cause anorexia, weight loss, diabetes, or acute pancreatitis. Rarer features: Thrombophlebitis migrans (eg an arm vein becomes swollen and red, then a leg vein); Ca2+; marantic endocardi- tis; portal hypertension (splenic vein thrombosis); nephrosis (renal vein metasta- ses). Signs: Jaundice + palpable gallbladder (Courvoisier’s ‘law’, p272); epigastric mass; hepatomegaly; splenomegaly; lymphadenopathy; ascites. Tests Blood: Cholestatic jaundice. CA 19–9 (p531) is non-specifi c, but helps assess prognosis. Imaging: US or CT can show a pancreatic mass ± dilated biliary tree ± hepatic metastases. They can guide biopsy and help staging prior to surgery/stent insertion. ERCP/MRCP (p742) show biliary tree anatomy and may localize the site of obstruction. EUS (endoscopic sonography) is an emerging adjunct for diagnosis and staging. : Most ductal cancers present with metastatic disease; <20% are suitable for radical surgery. Surgery: Resection (pancreato duodenectomy: Whip p le’s, p271, fi g 6.23) is a major undertaking best considered only where no distant metastases and where vascular invasion is still at a minimum. Post-op morbidity is high (mortal- ity <5%); non-curative resection confers no survival benefi t. Laparoscopic excision: Tail lesions are easiest. Post-op chemotherapy: Delays disease progression. Pal- liation of jaundice: Endoscopic or percutaneous stent insertion may help jaundice and anorexia. Rarely, palliative bypass surgery is done for duodenal obstruction or unsuccessful ERCP. Pain: Disabling pain may need big doses of opiates (p575), or radi- otherapy. Coeliac plexus infi ltration with alcohol may be done at the time of surgery, or percutaneously. Referral to a palliative care team is essential. Prognosis Often dismal. Mean survival <6 months. 5yr survival: 3%. Overall 5yr sur- vival after Whipple’s procedure 5–14%. Prognosis is better if: tumour <3cm; no nodes involved; Ωve resection margins at surgery; ampullary or islet cell tumours. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 227700 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygoloretneortsaG Carcinoid tumours 271 This is a specialized area! A diverse group of tumours of enterochromaffi n cell (neu- ral crest) origin, by defi nition capable of producing 5HT. Common sites: appendix (45%), ileum (30%), or rectum (20%).22 They
