Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


all medications (eg old drug charts; GP records). Examine: For signs of chronic liver dis- ease (p276), hepatic encephalopathy (p275), lymph adenopathy, hepatomegaly, spleno- megaly, ascites, and a palpable gallbladder (if seen with painless jaundice the cause is not gallstones—Courvoisier’s ‘law’).24 Pale stools + dark urine ≈ cholestatic jaundice. Tests See p276 for screening tests in suspected liver disease. Urine: Bilirubin is absent in pre-hepatic causes; in obstructive jaundice, urobilinogen is absent. Hae- matology: FBC, clotting, fi lm, reticulocyte count, Coombs’ test and haptoglobins for haemolysis (p336), malaria parasites (eg if unconjugated bilirubin/fever); Paul Bunnell (EBV). Chemistry: U&E, LFT, -GT, total protein, albumin.25 Paracetamol lev- els. Microbiology: Blood and other cultures; hepatitis serology. Ultrasound: Are the bile ducts dilated? Are there gallstones, hepatic metastases, or a pancreatic mass? ERCP: (See p742.) If bile ducts are dilated and LFT not improving. MRCP: (See p742.) Or endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) if conventional ultrasound shows gallstones but no defi nite com mon bile duct stones. Liver biopsy: (See p248.) If bile ducts are normal. Consider abdominal CT/MRI if abdominal malignancy is suspected. What to do? Treat the cause promptly. Ensure adequate hydration; broad-spec- trum antibiotics if obstruction. Monitor for ascites, encephalopathy; call a hepatologist. 23 Multiple segmental cystic or saccular dilatations of intrahepatic bile ducts with congenital hepatic fi brosis. It may present in 20yr-olds, with portal hypertension ± recurrent cholangitis/cholelithiasis. 24 Pancreatic or gallbladder cancer is more likely, as stones lead to a fi brotic, unexpandable gallbladder. 25 Albumin & INR are the best indicators of hepatic synthetic function. Transaminases (ALT, AST) indi- cate hepatocyte damage. ALP suggests obstructive jaundice, but also occurs in hepatocellular jaundice, malignant infi ltration, pregnancy (placental isoenzyme), Paget’s disease, and childhood (bone isoenzyme). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 227722 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygoloretneortsaG Fig 6.24 It’s easy to miss mild jaundice, especially under fl uo- 273 rescent light, so take your patient to the window, and as you both gaze at the sky, use the opportunity to broaden the hori- zons of your enquiries ... where have you been ... where are you going ...who are you with ... what are you taking ...? In the gaps, your patient may tell you the diagnosis—alcohol or drug abuse, sexual infections/hepatitis, or worries about the side-eff ects of their TB or HIV medication or a spreading cancer ‘from this lump here which I haven’t told anyone about yet’. Reproduced from Roper, Clinical Skills, 2014, with
