Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


side-eff ects of their TB or HIV medication or a spreading cancer ‘from this lump here which I haven’t told anyone about yet’. Reproduced from Roper, Clinical Skills, 2014, with permission from Oxford University Press. The pathway of bilirubin metabolism In the liver, bilirubin is conjugated with glucuronic acid by hepatocytes, making it water-soluble. Conjugated bilirubin is secreted in bile and passes into the gut. Some is taken up again by the liver (via the enterohepatic circulation) and the rest is converted to urobilinogen by gut bacteria. Urobilinogen is either reabsorbed and excreted by the kidneys, or converted to stercobilin, which colours faeces brown. Fig 6.25 Bilirubin is formed by the breakdown of haemoglobin in a 3-step process: hepatic uptake, con- jugation, and excretion. Causes of jaundice in a previously stable patient with cirrhosis • Sepsis (esp. UTI, pneumonia, or peritonitis) • Alcohol; drugs (table 6.10) • Malignancy: eg hepatocellular carcinoma • GI bleeding. Signs of decompensation: Jaundice; ascites; UGI bleed; encephalopathy. Table 6.10 Examples of drug-induced jaundice Haemolysis • Antimalarials (eg dapsone) Hepatitis • Paracetamol overdose (p844) • Sodium valproate • Isoniazid, rifampicin, pyrazinamide • Halothane • Monoamine oxidase inhibitors • Statins • Flucloxacillin (may be weeks after ) • Sulfonylureas Cholestasis • Fusidic acid, co-amoxiclav, nitrofurantoin • Prochlorperazine • Steroids (anabolic; the Pill) • Chlorpromazine Fig 6.26 Amanita phalloides (Latin for ‘phallic toadstool’; also known as the ‘death cap’) is a lethal cause of jaundice. It is the most toxic mushroom known. After ing estion (its benign appearance is confusing), amat oxins induce hepatic necros is leaving few options other than transplantation. ©Ian Her riott. NB: don’t use this image for identifi cation! __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 227733 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygoloretneortsaG 274 Liver failure Defi nitions Liver failure may be recognized by the development of coagulopathy (INR>1.5) and encephalopathy. This may occur suddenly in the previously healthy liver = acute liver failure (hyperacute = onset ≤ 7d; acute = 8–21d; subacute = 4–26wks.) More often it occurs on a background of cirrhosis = chronic liver failure. Fulminant hepatic failure is a clinical syndrome resulting from massive necrosis of liver cells leading to severe impairment of liver function. Causes Infections: Viral hepatitis (esp. B, C, CMV), yellow fever, leptospirosis. Drugs: Paracetamol overdose, halothane, isoniazid. Toxins: Amanita phalloides mushroom (fi g 6.26), carbon tetrachloride. Vascular: Budd–Chiari syn. (p696), veno-occlusive disease. Others: Alcohol, fatty liver disease, primary biliary cholangitis, primary sclerosing cholangitis, haemochromatosis, autoimmune
