Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


in acute liver failure’ p275) Chronic indications: Advanced cir- rhosis of any cause; hepatocellular cancer (1 nodule <5cm or ≤5 nodules <3cm). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 227766 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygoloretneortsaG 277 Fig 6.27 Spider naevi: a central arteriole, from which numerous vessels radiate (like the legs of a spider). These fi ll from the centre unlike tel- angiectasias that fi ll from the edge. They occur most commonly in skin drained by the superior vena cava. ≤5 are normal (especially in ). Caus- Fig 6.28 Gross ascites. Note the umbilical her- es include liver disease, OCP, and pregnancy (ie nia (p613), gynaecomastia, and veins visible on changes in oestrogen metabolism). the anterior abdominal wall. Causes of cirrhosis • Chronic alcohol use • Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) • Chronic HBV or HCV infection28 • Autoimmunity: primary biliary cholangi- • Genetic disorders: haemochromatosis tis (p282); primary sclerosing cholangitis (p288); 1-antitrypsin defi ciency (p290); (p282); autoimmune hepatitis (p284) Wilson’s disease (p285) • Drugs: eg amiodarone, methyldopa, • Hepatic vein events (Budd–Chiari, p696) methotrexate. Is cirrhosis becoming decompensated? Prepare to make an arrest... Cirrhosis may lie in wait for years before committing one of its three great crimes against the person: jaundice, ascites, or encephalopathy. There are almost always accomplices who, if arrested now, may stop a killing from unfolding. These usual suspects are: dehydration constipation covert alcohol use infection (eg spon- taneous peritonitis, see earlier in topic) opiate over-use—or an occult GI bleed. If all have alibis, think of portal vein thrombosis, and call in the Chief Inspector. Liver transplantation The fi rst liver transplant was in Denver, USA, in 1963. Now 800–1000 are performed each year in the UK (indications see p284). The limiting step for the procedure is often the waiting-list for a donor organ, which may be cadaveric (heart-beating or non-heart-beating) or from live donors (right lobe). Contraindications include ex- trahepatic malignancy; severe cardiorespiratory disease; systemic sepsis; expected non-compliance with drug therapy; ongoing alcohol consumption (in those with alcohol-related liver disease). Refer earlier rather than later, eg when ascites is refractory or after a 1st episode of bacterial peritonitis. Prioritization in the UK is based upon the UKELD (UK end-stage liver disease) score, calculated from serum Na+, creatinine, bilirubin, and INR.29 Post-op: 12–48h on ITU, with enteral feeding starting as soon as possible and close monitoring of LFT. Immunosuppression examples: tacrolimus ± mycophenolate mofetil (or azat hioprine) + prednisolone. Hypera cute rejection is a
