Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


to support cessation. Admit only if complicating or coexisting medical problems require inpatient treat- ment. Check BP + TPR/4h. Beware BP. For the 1st 3d give generous chlordiazepoxide, eg 10–50mg/6h PO with additional doses PRN, then sum total dose and plan weaning regimen over 5–7d. Vitamins may be needed (p714). Prevention: (OHCS p512.) Alcohol- free beers; price may help promote lower-risk drinking. NB: there are no absolutes: risk is a continuum. Suggest: 1 Graceful ways of declining a drink, eg ‘I’m seeing what it’s like to go without for a bit’. 2 Not buying him- or herself a drink when it is his/her turn. 3 ‘Don’t lift your glass to your lips until after the slowest drinker in your group takes a drink.’ 4 ‘Sip, don’t gulp.’ Give follow-up and encouragement. Treating established alcoholics: May be rewarding, particularly if they really want to change. If so, group therapy or self-help (eg Alcoholics Anonymo us) may be useful—espe- cially if self-initiated and determined. Encourage the will to change. Relapse 50% will relapse soon after starting treatment. Acamprosate (p449) may help intense anxiety, insomnia, and craving. CI: pregnancy, severe liver failure, creatinine >120μmol/L. SE: D&V,  or libido; dose example: 666mg/8h PO if >60kg and <65yrs old. It should be started as soon as acute withdrawal is complete and continued for ~1yr. Disulfi ram can be used to treat chronic alcohol dependence. It causes acetaldehyde build-up (like metronidazole) with extremely unpleasant ef- fects to any alcohol ingestion—eg fl ushing, throbbing headache, palpitations. Care must be taken to avoid alcohol (eg toiletries, food, medicines) since severe reac- tions can occur. Confer with experts if drugs are to be used. 30 GT is  in 52% of alcoholics; it is also  in 50% of those with non-alcoholic fatty livers. Its best use is not in diagnosing alcoholism but in seeing if a raised ALP is likely to be from liver, not bone. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 228800 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygoloretneortsaG Screening for unhealthy alcohol use 281 Several screening tools have been validated (eg AUDIT) but these typically require detailed questioning and careful scoring. For simplicity, a single-item question has much to recommend it, such as ‘How many times in the past year have you had fi ve (four for ) or more drinks in a day?’ (+ve if >0; 82% sensitive, 79% specifi c). This can be followed up with the easily remembered CAGE questions: Ever
