Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


duct infl ammation and strictures (fi gs 6.30, 6.31). Symptoms/signs Pruritus ± fatigue; if advanced: ascending cholangitis, cirrh osis, and hepatic failure. Associations: •  sex. • HLA-A1; B8; DR3. • AIH (p284); >80% of Northern European patients also have IBD, usually UC; this combination is associated with risk of colorectal malignancy. Cancers Bile duct, gallbladder, liver, and colon cancers are more common, so do yearly colonoscopy + ultrasound; consider cholecystectomy for gallbladder polyps.32 Tests ALP, then bilirubin; hyper gammaglobulin aemia and/or IgM; AMA Ωve, but ANA, SMA, and ANCA may be +ve; see BOX and p553. ERCP (fi g 6.30) or MRCP (fi g 6.31) reveal duct anatomy and damage. Liver biopsy shows a fi brous, obliterative cholangitis. Treatment Liver transplant is the mainstay for end-stage disease; recurrence oc- curs in up to 30%; 5yr graft survival is >60%. Prognosis is worse for those with IBD, as 5–10% develop colorectal cancer post-transplant. Ursodeoxycholic acid may improve LFT but has not shown evidence of survival benefi t. High doses, eg 25–30mg/ kg/d, may be harmful. Colestyra mine 4–8g/24h PO for pruritus (naltrexone and ri- fampicin may also help). Antibiotics for bacterial cholangitis. 31 Other causes of liver granulomas: TB, sarcoid, infections with HIV (eg toxoplasmosis, CMV, mycobacte- ria), PAN, SLE, granulomatosis with polyangiitis, lymphoma, syphilis, isoniazid, quinidine, carbamazepine, al- lopurinol. Signs: PUO; LFT. 32 Usually gallbladder polyps are an incidental fi nding on ultrasound, and they can often be left if <1cm diameter, but in PSC they are much more likely to become malignant. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 228822 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygoloretneortsaG Testing for autoantibodies—the anguish of partial understanding 283 The diagnostic approach to several infl ammatory conditions includes the measure- ment of autoantibodies. Consequently and all too often, attempts to acquire (and test) medical knowledge may promote these antibody panels to a position as the fi nal arbiter of disease diagnosis which, with their varying sensitivities and spe- cifi cities, they are quite unfi t to assume. Indeed, often just such a work-up shows strange overlap conditions between apparently diff erent diseases: strange until we realize that these markers are just surrogates for processes that we lack a complete aetiological explanation for and in which the antibodies themselves may just be bystanders. Process that we lack the tools to visualize, as cells of the immune system continue their onslaught against their perceived enemies, driven by reasons that none present seem willing to
