Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Process that we lack the tools to visualize, as cells of the immune system continue their onslaught against their perceived enemies, driven by reasons that none present seem willing to reveal to our crude probing with blood tests, X-rays and biopsies. While the body knows no diseases, only pain and death, our minds attempt to impose a unitary disease on unsuspecting and sometimes innocent cells. For example, clinically we observe that autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) frequently overlaps with PSC and IBD. A battery of antibody tests may sometimes help understand the dominant process, but equally may mystify matters still further if we attempt to apply our inadequate classifi ers (‘But why is the ANCA not positive?’ cries the student, enraged at the failure of the miserable patient’s B lymphocytes to do the honourable thing). As ever, management should be individualized dependent on liver and bowel histology, serum immunoglobulin levels, the degree of biochemical cholestasis, cholangiography, and, yes, autoantibodies. Fig 6.31 MRCP showing features of PSC. The intrahe- Fig 6.30 ERCP showing many stric- patic ducts show multifocal strictures. Strictures can tures in the biliary tree with a charac- be hard to diff erentiate from cholangiocarcinoma teristic ‘beaded’ appearance. (coexistence of UC may promote this development). Stenting may be needed. © Dr Anthony Mee. ©Norwich Radiology Department. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 228833 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygoloretneortsaG 284 Autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) An infl ammatory liver disease of unknown cause33 characterized by abnormal T-cell function and autoantibodies directed against hepatocyte surface antigens. Classifi ca- tion is by autoantibodies (see table 6.12). AIH predominantly aff ects young or middle- aged women (bimodal, ie 10–30yrs—or >40yrs old). Up to 40% present with acute hepatitis and signs of autoimmune disease, eg fever, malaise, urticarial rash, polyar- thritis, pleurisy, pulmonary infi ltration, or glomerulon ephritis. The remainder present with gradual jaundice or are asymptomatic and diagnosed incidentally with signs of chronic liver disease. Amenorrhoea is common and disease tends to attenuate during pregnancy. Complications Those associated with cirrhosis (p276) and drug therapy. Tests Serum bilirubin, AST, ALT, and ALP all usually , hypergammaglobulinaemia (esp. IgG), +ve autoantibodies (see table 6.12). Anaemia, WCC, and platelets indicate hy- persplenism. Liver biopsy: (See p248.) Mononuclear infi ltrate of portal and peripor- tal areas and piecemeal necrosis ± fi brosis; cirrhosis ≈ worse prognosis. MRCP: (See p742.) Helps exclude PSC if ALP  disproportionately. Diagnosis Depends on excluding other diseases (no lab test is pathognomonic). Di-
