Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


T-helper cell activation. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 228844 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygoloretneortsaG Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) 285 The commonest liver disorder in Western industrialized countries (prevalence≈20%), NAFLD12 represents fat in hepatocytes (steatosis) visualized, eg on ultrasound that cannot be attributed to other causes (most commonly alcohol so consider NAFLD if drink <18U/wk, <9U). If infl ammation is also present (LFT, typically ALT) = non-al- coholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Rule out other causes of liver disease (p284) and check for associated metabolic disorders (obesity, dyslipidaemia, diabetes, hypertension). Progression to cirrhosis may occur—biopsy or elastography may be needed (p248). Risk factors for progression Older age; obesity; DM; NASH. Treatment Control risk factors, including obesity (bariatic surgery helps). Address cardiovascular risk (com- monest cause of death, see p93). Avoid alcohol consumption. No drug is of proven benefi t, though vitamin E may improve histology in fi brosis (eg 400IU/d—higher doses associated with excess mortality). Follow-up Monitor for complications (NASH, cir- rhosis, DM). If cirrhotic, screen for HCC with ultrasound ± AFP twice-yearly. Wilson’s disease/hepatolenticular degeneration Wilson’s disease is a rare (3/100 000) inherited disorder of copper excretion with excess deposition in liver and CNS (eg basal ganglia). It is treatable, so screen all with cirrhosis. Genetics An autosomal recessive disorder of a copper transporting ATPase, ATP7B. Physiology Total body copper content is ~125mg. Intake ≈ 3mg/day (absorbed in proximal small intestine). In the liver, copper is incorporated into caeruloplasmin. In Wilson’s disease, copper incorporation into caeruloplasmin in hepatocytes and ex- cretion into bile are impaired. Copper accumulates in liver, and later in other organs. Signs Children present with liver disease (hepatitis, cirrhosis, fulmin ant liver fail- ure); young adults often start with CNS signs: tremor; dysarthria, dys pha gia; dyski- nesias; dystonias; dementia; Parkinsonism; ataxia/clumsiness. Mood: Depress ion/mania; labile emotions; libido; personality change. Ignoring these may cause years of needless misery: often the doctor who is good at combin- ing the analytical and integrative aspects will be the fi rst to make the diagnosis. Cognition: Memory; slow to solve problems; IQ; delusions; mutism. Kayser–Fleis cher (KF) rings: Copper in iris (see 6 in following list); they are not invariable. Also: Haemolysis; blue lunulae (nails); arthritis; hypermobile joints; grey skin. Tests Equivocal copper studies need expert interpretation. 1 Urine: 24h copper excretion is high, eg >100mcg/24h (normal <40mcg). 2 LFT: non-specifi c (but ALT >1500 is not part of the picture). 3 Serum copper: typically <11μmol/L. 4 Serum
