Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


pulses, and some spices (eg paprika) are iron-rich. Most dietary iron is Fe3+, which is reduced by low gastric pH and ascorbic acid (vitamin C) to better-absorbed Fe2+. Absorption occurs mainly in the duodenum and jejunum, though very small amounts are ab- sorbed in the stomach and ileum. Iron requirements are greater for women (men- strual loss), when growing, in pregnancy, and in chronic infection. Hepcidin, a peptide synthesized in hepatocytes, secreted in plasma, is a negative regulator of gut iron absorption and haeme iron recycling by macrophages. Hepcidin synthesis is stimulated by iron and repressed by iron defi ciency and by  marrow erythropoiesis (eg in anaemia, bleeding, haemolysis, dyserythropoiesis, or erythropoietin injections). Defects in the normal triggering of hepcidin by iron excess is a rare cause of haemochromatosis unrelated to HFE mutations, whereas a defect in hepcidin repression is responsible for an iron refractory iron defi ciency anaemia. In HH, the total body iron is up to 10-fold that of a normal person, with load- ing found particularly in the liver and pancreas (≈100). Hepatic disease classically starts with fi brosis, progressing to cirrhosis as a late feature. Fig 6.33 Haemochromatosis causes stressed joints to deteriorate faster than resting joints: the 2nd and 3rd MCP joints have osteophytes and narrowed joint spaces compared to the normal hand (right image) in this man who only used his dominant hand for his production line job. Reproduced from ‘Haemochromatosis arthropathy and repetitive trauma’, Annals of the Rheumatic Diseases, Morgan et al., 61(8): 763, 2002, with permission from BMJ Publishing Group Ltd. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 228899 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygoloretneortsaG 290 -antitrypsin (A1AT) defi ciency 1 A1AT defi ciency is an inherited disorder aff ecting lung (emphysema) and liver (cirrho- sis and HCC). A1AT is a glycoprotein and one of a family of serine protease inhibitors made in the liver that control infl ammatory cascades. Defi ciency is called a serpinopathy. It makes up 90% of serum 1-glob ulin on electrophoresis (p687). A1AT defi ciency is the chief genetic cause of liver disease in children. In adults, its lack is more likely to cause emphy sema. Lung A1AT protects against tissue damage from neutrophil elastase—a process that is also induced by cigarette smoking (p184). Prevalence ~1:4000 (higher in Caucasians). Genetics Genetic variants of A1AT are typed by electro phor etic mobility as medium (M), slow (S), or very slow (Z). S and Z types are
