Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


~1:4000 (higher in Caucasians). Genetics Genetic variants of A1AT are typed by electro phor etic mobility as medium (M), slow (S), or very slow (Z). S and Z types are due to single amino acid substitutions at positions 264 and 342, respectively. These result in production of 1-antitrypsin (S=60%, Z=15%). The normal genotype is PiMM, the high risk homozygote is PiZZ; het- erozygotes are PiMZ and PiSZ (at low risk of developing liver disease). The patient Symptomatic patients usually have the PiZZ genotype: dyspnoea from emphysema; cirrhosis; cholestatic jaundice. Cholestasis often remits in adolescence. Tests Serum 1-antitrypsin (1AT) levels , usually (eg <11μmol/L or <75% of lower limit of normal, which is ~0.9g/L; labs vary). Note the ‘usually’. Because A1AT is part of the acute-phase response, infl ammation may hide a low level. Unless you do genotyp- ing, you will inevitably mis-label some cirrhosis as cryptogenic. Lung function testing: Shows reductions in FEV1 with obstructive pattern (p162). There may be some bronch- dilator reversibility. Liver biopsy: (See p248.) Periodic acid Schiff (PAS) +ve; diastase-re- sistant globules. Phenotyping: By isoelectric focusing requires expertise to distinguish SZ and ZZ phenotypes. Phenotyping can miss null phenotypes. Prenatal diagnosis: Pos- sible by DNA analysis of chorionic villus samples obtained at 11–13wks’ gestation. Management Smoki ng cessation. Prompt treatment/preventative vaccination for lung infections. Giving IV A1AT pooled from human plasma is expensive but COPD ex- acerbations may be prevented (no good randomized trials). Liver transplantation: Needed in decompensated cirrhosis. Lung transplantation: Improves survival and has a comparable survival to transplantation in non-A1AT-defi cient COPD. Inhaled A1AT: Has been tried in lung disease. Prognosis Some patients have life-threatening symptoms in childhood, whereas others remain asymptomatic and healthy into old age. Worse prognosis if male, a smoker, or obese. Emphysema is the cause of death in most, liver disease in ~5%. In adults, cirrhosis ± HCC aff ect 25% of A1AT-defi cient adults >50yrs. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 229900 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygoloretneortsaG Approaches to abnormal liver function tests (LFTS) 291 Abnormal LFTS can be found in ~17% of the asymptomatic general population. Also, remember that a normal LFT does not exclude liver disease. Tests of hepatocellular injury or cholestasis Aminotransferases: (AST, ALT) Released in the bloodstream after hepatocellular injury. ALT is more specifi c for hepatocellular injury (but also expressed in kidney and muscle). AST is also expressed in the heart, skeletal muscle, and RBCS. Alkaline phosphatase: May originate from
