Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


discharge, consider PID, see p413. Do not rely on classical symptoms and signs in a catheterized patient. Tests In non-pregnant women, if ≥ 3 (or one severe) symptoms of cystitis, and no vaginal discharge, treat empirically without further tests. • Dipstick: Use in non-pregnant women <65 years with less than three symptoms. A negative dipstick reduces probability of UTI to <20%. Do not use in pregnant women. Limited data for men. No diagnostic value in catheterized sample. • MSU culture: Conventional cut off >105 colony-forming units (cfu)/mL (but best di- agnostic criterion may be >102–103cfu/mL). Use in pregnant women, men, children, and if fail to respond to empirical antibiotics. Catheterized sample only if septic. • Blood tests: If systemically unwell: FBC, U&E, CRP, and blood culture (positive in only 10–25% of pyelonephritis). Consider fasting glucose. • Imaging: Consider USS and referral to urology for assessment (cystoscopy, urody- namics, CT) in men with upper UTI; failure to respond to treatment; recurrent UTI (>2/year); pyelonephritis; unusual organism; persistent haematuria. Organisms Usually anaerobes and Gram-negative bacteria from bowel and vaginal fl ora. E. coli is the main organism (75–95% in community but  in hospital). Staphylo- coccus saprophyticus (a skin commensal) in 5–10%. Other enterobacteriaceae such as Proteus mirabilis and Klebsiella pneumonia. For sterile pyuria see table 7.2. Table 7.2 Causes of sterile pyuria ( numbers of white cells but sterile on standard culture) Infection related Non-infection related TB Calculi Polycystic kidney Recently treated UTI Renal tract tumour Recent catheter Inadequately treated UTI Papillary necrosis Pregnancy Fastidious culture requirement Tubulointerstitial nephritis SLE Appendicitis, prostatitis, chlamydia Chemical cystitis Drugs, eg steroids __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 229966 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 enicidem laneR Managing UTI 297 Do not use antibiotics for the treatment of asymptomatic bacteriuria in non- pregnant women, men, and adults with catheters. Non-pregnant women: • If three or more symptoms (or one severe) of cystitis, and no vaginal discharge, treat empirically with 3-day course of trimethoprim, or nitrofurantoin (if eGFR >30). • If fi rst-line empirical treatment fails, culture urine and treat according to anti- biotic sensitivity. • In upper UTI, take a urine culture and treat initially with a broad-spectrum antibi- otic according to local guidelines/sensitivities, eg co-amoxiclav. Hospitalization should be considered due to risk of antibiotic resistance. Avoid nitrofurantoin as it does not achieve eff ective concentrations in the blood. Pregnant women: Get expert help: UTI in pregnancy is associated with preterm delivery and intrau-
