Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


antibiotic resistance. Avoid nitrofurantoin as it does not achieve eff ective concentrations in the blood. Pregnant women: Get expert help: UTI in pregnancy is associated with preterm delivery and intrau- terine growth restriction. Asymptomatic bacteriuria should be confi rmed on a second sample. Treat with an antibiotic. Refer to local guidance advice for antibi- otic choice (avoid ciprofl oxacin, trimethoprim in 1st trimester, nitrofurantoin in 3rd trimester). Confi rm eradication. Men: • Treat lower UTI with a 7-day course of trimethoprim or nitrofurantoin (if eGFR >30). • If symptoms suggest prostatitis (pain in pelvis, genitals, lower back, buttocks) consider a longer (4-week) course of a fl uoroquinolone (eg ciprofl oxacin) due to ability to penetrate prostatic fl uid. • If upper or recurrent UTI, refer for urological investigation. Catheterized patients: • All catheterized patients are bacteriuric. Send MSU only if symptomatic. Symp- toms of UTI may be non-specifi c/atypical. Possible symptoms include fever, fl ank/ suprapubic pain, change in voiding pattern, vomiting, confusion, sepsis. • Change long-term catheter before starting an antibiotic. • Refer to local guidelines for initial antibiotic choice. Where possible use a narrow- spectrum antibiotic according to culture sensitivity. Urinary tract tuberculosis • A cause of sterile pyuria: dysuria, frequency, suprapubic pain but negative stand- ard culture. Ask about malaise, fever, night sweats, weight loss, back/fl ank pain, visible haematuria (p393). • Can also cause an interstitial nephritis (p318) and renal amyloidosis (p315). Glo- merulonephritis is rare. • Diagnose by microscopy with acid-fast techniques and mycobacterial culture of an early morning MSU and/or urinary tract tissue. • Treat with rifampicin and isoniazid for 6 months in conjunction with pyrazina- mide and ethambutol for 2 months (see p394). The ‘Piss Prophets’ Beware the fallacies, deceit and juggling of the piss-pot science used by all those who pretend knowledge of diseases by the urine. Thomas Brian, 1655. Medieval texts1 give the following maxims regarding urinary change and disease: • White or straw coloured urine = weak and cold liver and stomach • Foamy urine = eructation (belching) • Light coloured, turbid urine = mucus • Lead circle on thin urine = pathological melancholy • Bubbles on the surface = disease of the head • Watery urine = love sickness • Swampy, black, stinking urine = fatal • Lead coloured urine = a disintegrating uterus • Reddish, cloudy urine with bubbles = asthma or an irregular heart beat. 1 Uroscopy
