Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


D analogue eg 1-calcidol or calci- triol. Paricalcitol suppresses PTH with less eff ect on gut absorption of calcium and phosphate and is less likely to cause calcium/phosphate. Restless legs/cramps: Exclude iron defi ciency as a possible exacerbating factor. Give sleep hygiene advice. Treatment for severe cases with gabapentin/pregabalin/ dopamine agonists is off licence and may be complicated by side-eff ects (falls, cogni- tive impairment, impulse-control disorder). Diet: Expert dietary advice should be available regarding protein intake, K+ if hyper- kalaemic, and phosphate restriction (eg dairy products). Treatment of other complications of CKD Cardiovascular disease: CKD confers risk of cardiovascular disease due to BP, vas- cular stiff ness, infl ammation, oxidative stress, and abnormal endothelial function (CV risk often higher than the risk of kidney failure). • Antiplatelets (low-dose aspirin) for CKD at risk for atherosclerotic events unless bleeding risk outweighs benefi t (mortality benefi t unclear in CKD). • Atorvastatin 20mg (and higher if GFR >30) for primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease. • CKD should not aff ect treatment for heart failure but monitoring of GFR and K+. • GFR <60 may aff ect troponin and BNP values. Interpret results cautiously with con- sideration for the GFR. Preparation for renal replacement therapy (RRT) Planning for RRT should begin in progressive CKD when the risk of renal failure is 10–20% within a year. Referral to nephrology less than 1 year before RRT is required is considered a late referral. All suitable patients should be listed for a deceased donor transplantation 6 months before the anticipated start of RRT. All suitable patients should be informed about the advantages of a pre-emptive living kidney transplant and eff orts made to fi nd a donor (p308). Prescribing in CKD Never prescribe in renal failure before checking how administration should be altered due to a GFR. This will be determined largely by the extent to which a drug is renally excreted. This is signifi cant for aminoglycosides, penicillins, cephalos porins, heparin, lithium, opiates, and digoxin. Loading doses should not be changed. If precision is required for dosing (eg chemotherapy) then GFR should not be estimated from creatinine: a cystatin C or direct measure of GFR should be used. If the patient is receiving renal replacement (haemofi ltration, peritoneal or hae- modialysis), dose modifi cation depends on the extent to which a drug is cleared from the circulation by dialysis/fi ltration. The best
