Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


receiving renal replacement (haemofi ltration, peritoneal or hae- modialysis), dose modifi cation depends on the extent to which a drug is cleared from the circulation by dialysis/fi ltration. The best prescribing guide to consult is the Renal Drug Database/Handbook (www.renaldrugdatabase.com), an invaluable resource detailing dose modifi cation in renal failure and in renal replacement for almost any drug you could wish to use. All hospitals should have access: speak to your pharmacist. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 330055 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 enicidem laneR 306 Re nal replacement therapy (RRT): dialysis and fi ltration Long-term dialysis is started when it is necessary to manage one or more symptoms of renal failure including: • inability to control volume status, including pulmonary oedema • inability to control blood pressure • serositis • acid–base or electrolyte abnormalities • pruritus • nausea/vomiting/deterioration in nutritional status • cognitive impairment. RRT is a misnomer for dialysis: renal function is not replaced, rather there is provi- sion of just enough clearance to ameliorate the symptoms of kidney failure. GFR at commencement of dialysis is usually ~5–10. When transplantation is awaited or not possible, there are two main options: haemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis. Haemodialysis (HD) (fi g 7.6) Blood is Blood Blood passed over a semi-permeable membrane in Blood returned against dialysis fl uid fl owing in the oppo- site direction. Diff usion of solutes occurs down the concentration gradient. A hy- drostatic gradient is used to clear excess Waste Dialysate Fluid fl uid as required (ultrafi ltration). Access is removed in preferentially via an arteriovenous fi stula which provides blood fl ow and longevity. Fig 7.6 Haemodialysis. This should be created prior to need for RRT to avoid the infection risk associated with central venous dialysis catheters. HD is needed 3 times/week or more. Daily HD increases the ‘dose’ and improves outcomes. Home HD should be off ered to all suitable patients. Problems: Access (arteriovenous fi stula: thrombosis, stenosis, steal syndrome; tunnelled venous line: infection, block- age, recirculation of blood), dialysis dysequilibrium (between cerebral and blood sol- utes leading to cerebral oedema  start HD gradually), hypotension, time consuming. Peritoneal dialysis (PD) Uses the peritoneum as a semi-permeable membrane. A catheter is inserted into the peritoneal cavity and fl uid infused. Solutes diff use slowly across. Ultrafi ltration is achieved by adding osmotic agents (glucose, glu- cose polymers) to the fl uid. It is a continuous process with intermittent drainage and refi lling
