Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


use slowly across. Ultrafi ltration is achieved by adding osmotic agents (glucose, glu- cose polymers) to the fl uid. It is a continuous process with intermittent drainage and refi lling of the peritoneal cavity, performed at home. Problems: Catheter site infection, PD peritonitis, hernia, loss of membrane function over time. Haemofi ltration (fi g 7.7) Water cleared Post by positive pressure, dragging solutes into Blood Blood dilution the waste by convection. The ultrafi ltrate Pre- in returned (waste) is replaced with an appropriate dilution Blood volume of (‘clean’) fl uid either before (pre- dilution) or after (post-dilution) the mem- brane. Haemodynamic instability so used Dialysate in critical care when HD not possible due Waste out to BP. Not used for chronic RRT unless in Fig 7.7 Haemofi ltration. combination with HD (haemodiafi ltration) for haemodynamic stability and middle molecule clearance, eg 2-microglobulin. Complications of RRT Annual mortality is signifi cant, mostly due to cardiovascu- lar disease: BP, calcium/phosphate dysregulation, vascular stiff ness, infl ammation, oxidative stress, abnormal endothelial function. Protein-calorie malnutrition: In- creases morbidity and mortality. Renal bone disease: High bone turnover, renal osteodystrophy, osteitis fi brosa. Infection: Uraemia causes granulocyte and T-cell dysfunction with sepsis-related mortality. Amyloid: 2-microglobulin accumulates in long–term dialysis causing carpal tunnel syndrome, arthralgia, visceral eff ects. Conservative management is for those who opt not to receive RRT due to lack of benefi t on quality or quantity of life. Focus is on preserving residual renal function, symptom control, and advanced planning with patient and family for end-of-life care. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 330066 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 enicidem laneR When a patient on dialysis presents... 307 1 Do they need dialysis now? Examine for fl uid overload and check K+. If on PD are they well enough to perform it themselves? Refer urgently to renal on-call. 2 When will they need dialysis? When are they due to dialyse next? Weigh them. All patients on dialysis have a target weight at which they are considered euvolaemic. How much are they above it? Do they have any useful urine output (ie that may help them lose volume/K+)? Refer to renal in a timely manner. 3 What is your diagnosis? History and examination as for any other patient. Do not measure BP on fi stula arm. Remember risk for CVD but troponin has specifi city in ESRF. 4 Treat. Remember to dose adjust for renal failure—includes antibiotics, opi- ates, insulin, and low-molecular-weight heparin
