Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


fi stula arm. Remember risk for CVD but troponin has specifi city in ESRF. 4 Treat. Remember to dose adjust for renal failure—includes antibiotics, opi- ates, insulin, and low-molecular-weight heparin (see www.renaldrugdatabase.com, p305). Care with fl uid replacement in sepsis: be guided by clinical examination and target weight. If unsure get expert help. If volume depleted give a 250mL bolus of (non-K+ containing) crystalloid over 15min with close observation. Avoid maintenance fl uids in those who normally have a fl uid restriction. Do not use a dialysis line or fi stula for IV access—if a cannula is necessary, preferentially use the back of the hand, save other vessels for future fi stulas. 5 Surgery needs senior anaesthetic and renal input. Aim for pre-op K+ <5.5mmol/L (<5.0mmol/L if major surgery with risk of tissue breakdown/ haemolysis). Check K+ urgently post-op (venous gas in recovery). In elective surgery, plan dialysis provision pre- and post-op. Warning: there is no normal Ten years is a long time. For those ten years, or just over 3,560 times, I attached myself to a peritoneal dialysis machine and underwent nine hours and fi fty min- utes of nightly therapy. I subsequently learned to do a lot of crosswords and read a ridiculous amount of books. In ten years I had just three incidents: an inguinal hernia due to thinking that I could move a sofa (I could not), a parathyroidectomy (my knees were much happier afterwards), and one unfortunate bout of peritoni- tis (once was enough). Statistically speaking, I am an anomaly: the ‘average’ life span of a peritoneal dialysis patient is four years. Admittedly, I did not initially cope well with needing to be on dialysis. After hav- ing lived successfully with a transplant, a return to dialysis felt like failure. I did not want the hassle of treatment. I did not want piles of boxes cluttering up our home. Mostly, I did not want a PD catheter jutting out of my belly. But what I originally believed to be unacceptable, gradually became tolerable. This took time. It took care and support. It took experiencing relative health, and seeing that dialysis life, although diff erent to existing with a transplant, could be lived well. Natasha Boone , author and illustrator, www.normalnotnormal.com; www.natashaboone.com The man in a red canoe who saved a million lives Mostly we commute to work each day driven by motives we would rather
