Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


, author and illustrator, www.normalnotnormal.com; www.natashaboone.com The man in a red canoe who saved a million lives Mostly we commute to work each day driven by motives we would rather not look at too deeply. But one renal physician used a red canoe to commute each day from his houseboat to the hospital. He could have been a very rich man but instead Belding Scribner gave his invention away, and continued his modest existence. He invented the Scribner shunt—a U of tefl on connecting an artery to a vein, al- lowing haemodialysis to be something that could be repeated as often as needed. Before Scribner, glass tubes had to be painfully inserted into blood vessels, which would be damaged by the procedure so that haemodialysis could be done for only a few cycles. Clyde Shields was his fi rst patient in 1960, and said that his fi rst treatment ‘took so much of the waste I’d stored up out of me that it was just like turning on the light from darkness’. Scribner took something that was 100% fatal and turned it into a condition with a 90% survival. On 19 June 2003, his canoe was found afl oat but empty. And like those ancient Indian burial canoes found at Wiskam which have been polished to an unimagina- ble lustre by the action of the shifting sands around the Island of the Dead, so we polish and cherish the image of this man who gave everything away to help others. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 330077 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 enicidem laneR 308 Re nal replacement therapy (RRT): transplantation Transplantation (fi gs 7.8, 7.9) should be considered for every patient with, or pro- gressing towards, stage G5 kidney disease (p302). It is the treatment of choice for kidney failure provided risks do not exceed benefi ts. Many will not make the trans- plant list due to comorbidity or frailty. Contraindications • Absolute: cancer with metastases. • Temporary: active infection, HIV with viral replication, unstable CVD. • Relative: congestive heart failure, CVD. Types of graft • Living donor: Best graft function and survival, especially if HLA matched. • Deceased donor: (See organ donation p13.) 1 Donor after brain death (DBD, heart-beating donor). 2 Expanded criteria donor (ECD) is from an older kidney or from a patient with a history of CVA, BP, or CKD. This impacts on the long-term prognosis of the trans- plant but off ers
