Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


is from an older kidney or from a patient with a history of CVA, BP, or CKD. This impacts on the long-term prognosis of the trans- plant but off ers a better outcome than remaining on dialysis. 3 Donor after cardiac death (DCD, non-heart-beating donor) with risk of delayed graft function. Immunosuppression A combination of drugs are used. Aim is to use the minimal eff ective dose with the lowest drug-related toxicity. Protocol used depends upon the immunological risk of the recipient and type of donated kidney. Monoclonal antibodies: Eg basiliximab, daclizumab (selectively block activated T cells via CD-25), alemtuzumab (T- and B-cell depletion). Used at the time of trans- plantation (‘induction’). Acute rejection and graft loss, infection risk if non-selective. Calcineurin inhibitors: Eg tacrolimus, ciclosporin. These drugs inhibit T-cell acti- vation and proliferation. Inter-individual variation and narrow therapeutic index mean drug level monitoring is required. Clearance is dependent on cytochrome p450 isoenzymes so beware of drug interactions including macrolide antibiotics and anti- fungal drugs. Side eff ects: nephrotoxicity in the graft, modifi cation of CV risk factors: BP, cholesterol, NODAT (new-onset diabetes after transplantation). Antimetabolites: Eg mycophenolic acid (MPA), azathioprine. MPA is now used pref- erentially due to better prevention of acute rejection and graft survival (not in preg- nancy, MPA is teratogenic). Side eff ects: anaemia, leucopenia, and GI toxicity. Glucorticosteroids: Transcription of infl ammatory cytokines. First-choice treat- ment for acute rejection. Signifi cant side-eff ects (BP, hyperlipidaemia, DM, impaired wound healing, osteoporosis, cataracts, skin fragility) have led to protocols with ear- ly withdrawal of steroids and the use of steroid-free immunosuppression regimens. Complications Surgical: Bleed, thrombosis, infection, urinary leaks, lymphocele, hernia. Delayed graft function: Aff ects up to 40% of grafts, more common in DCD. Rejection: Acute or chronic. Acute is divided into antibody mediated (rare un- less known pre-sensitized recipient) or cellular (most common). Causes renal function, diagnosed on graft biopsy. Treatment with high-dose steroids and immunosuppression. Chronic antibody-mediated rejection causes progressive dys- function of the graft. Most graft loss is now thought to be due to an immune re- sponse by donor-specifi c antibodies causing damage to the kidney microcirculation. Complex pathology and lack of controlled studies mean treatment is not clear. The results of monoclonal antibody trials are awaited. Infection: Risk of all infections. Typically hospital acquired/donor derived in month 1, opportunistic in months 1–6 (therefore prophylactic treatment for CMV and Pneu- mocystis jirovecii
