Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


monoclonal antibody trials are awaited. Infection: Risk of all infections. Typically hospital acquired/donor derived in month 1, opportunistic in months 1–6 (therefore prophylactic treatment for CMV and Pneu- mocystis jirovecii given), usual spectrum of community-acquired infection after 6–12 months. Late viral infection should always be considered: eg CMV, HSV. Malignancy: Up to 25≈ risk of cancer with immunosuppression, particularly skin, post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD), and gynaecological. CVD: 3–5≈ risk of premature CVD compared to general population (but ~80% less than dialysis). BP, NODAT, rejection, and renal history (uraemic cardiomyopathy) contribute. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 330088 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 enicidem laneR Prognosis 309 Acute rejection <15%, 1-year graft survival >90%. Longer-term graft loss ~4%/year. Factors contributing to graft loss: • Donor factors: age, comorbidity, living/deceased, DBD/DCD. • Rejection. • Infection. • BP/CVD. • Recurrent renal disease in graft. Most common outcome is death with a functioning transplant (ie transplant ‘out- lives’ the patient). When a patient with a renal transplant presents... 1 Discuss everything with the local renal transplant unit: they will be happy to advise, review, transfer, and follow-up any renal transplant recipient. 2 What is the eGFR/creatinine? How does that compare with previous results? If you do not have any, ask the transplant unit. 3 Examine for and treat any reversible cause of AKI. Fluid state assessment (p300) is important—if you are unsure, get expert help. Correction of volume depletion and treatment of any sepsis should be prompt. 4 Consider viral/opportunistic infections and atypical presentations due to im- munosuppression, eg CMV, Pneumocystis jirovecii. 5 Do not stop any immunosuppressive medication.If the patient is unable to tolerate oral medication then immunosuppression must be given NG or convert ed to an IV dose (conversion depends on drug: check with your pharmacist). 6 Check for medication interactions: macrolide antibiotics (erythromycin, clarithromycin) can cause calcineurin inhibitor toxicity. 7 Dose all drugs according to renal function: penicillins, cephalosporins, amino- glycosides, insulin, opiates, and low-molecular-weight heparin. 8 Check with the transplant unit before you give low-molecular-weight heparin for VTE prophylaxis: they may want to do a transplant biopsy. Thank you for life It feels good to be able to put pen to paper at last and to thank you from the bot- tom of my heart for the gift of life your daughter has given me and for the kindness and compassion you have shown.... I want to say to you that it was a wonderful thing that you
