Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


of life your daughter has given me and for the kindness and compassion you have shown.... I want to say to you that it was a wonderful thing that you did as a mother that in your deep sadness showed a caring and giv- ing heart. I have a much better quality of life now since coming off dialysis 5 years ago. My father died of kidney failure when I was 3 years old. He was someone I would have loved to have known. I often think about your daughter, who she was and what she was like. Despite not knowing her, I think about her with aff ection and much respect. These last years must have been extremely painful for you all. I really hope that you, your family and friends have found peace in your lives. Love Deborah (renal transplant recipient, 1998) Reproduced from: Royal College of Physicians, Department of Health, NHS Blood and Transplant. Thank you for life: letters from transplant recipients to donors' families. London: RCP, 2010. Copyright © 2010 Royal College of Physicians. Reproduced with permission. Fig 7.8 ‘Alive’ by Natasha Boone. Fig 7.9 Post-transplant scribble by www.natashaboone.com Natasha Boone. www.natashaboone.com __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 330099 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 enicidem laneR 310 Glomerulonephritis The term glomerulonephritis (GN) encompasses a number of conditions which: • are caused by pathology in the glomerulus • present with proteinuria, haematuria, or both • are diagnosed on a renal biopsy • cause CKD • can progress to kidney failure (except minimal change disease). The names of the diseases come from either the histological appearance (eg membra- nous glomerulonephritis), or the associated systemic condition (eg lupus nephritis). Nephrotic or nephritic? The glomerulonephritides classically present on a spectrum ranging from nephro- sis (proteinuria due to podocyte pathology, p312), to nephritis (haematuria due to infl ammatory damage, p311). This is illustrated in fi g 7.10. However, if a GN causes scarring, then proteinuria can occur. Proteinuria can therefore complicate the longer-term clinical picture of any GN, including those that are classically ‘nephritic’. Fig 7.10 The spectrum of glomerular disease ranging from proteinuria (nephrosis) to haematuria (nephritis). Figure adapted from Turner et al., Oxford Textbook of Clinical Nephrology, 2015, with permission from Oxford University Press Investigation Assess damage and potential cause. Blood: FBC, U&E, LFT, CRP; immu- noglobulins, electrophoresis, complement (C3, C4); autoantibodies (p553): ANA, ANCA, anti-dsDNA, anti-GBM; blood culture, ASOT, hepatitis serology. Urine: MC&S, Bence Jones protein,
