Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


rmed with positive IF for IgA and C3 in skin. Renal biopsy is identical to IgA nephropathy. Treatment: Renal disease is man- aged as IgA nephropathy. Steroids may be used for gut involvement. Post-streptococcal GN Occurs after a throat (~ 2 weeks) or skin (~3–6 weeks) infection. Streptococcal antigen deposits in the glomerulus leading to immune complex formation and infl ammation. Presentation: Varies from haematuria to acute nephritis: haematuria, oedema, BP and oliguria. Diagnosis: Evidence of streptococcal infection: ASOT, anti-DNAse B. Also C3. Treatment: Supportive, antibiotics to clear the nephritogenic bacteria. Anti-glomerular basement membrane (anti-GBM) disease Previously known as Goodpasture’s disease. Rare. Auto-antibodies to type IV colla- gen which is present in glomerular and alveolar basement membranes. Presenta- tion: Renal disease (oliguria/anuria, haematuria, AKI, renal failure) and lung disease (pulmonary haemorrhage in 50–90%  SOB, haemoptysis). Dialysis-dependence at presentation and crescents on biopsy predict poor prognosis. Diagnosis: Anti-GBM in circulation/kidney (fi g 7.11). Treatment: Plasma exchange, corticosteroids, and cyclophosphamide. Rapidly progressive GN Any aggressive GN, rapidly progressing to renal failure over days or weeks. Causes include small vessel/ANCA vasculitis (p314), lupus nephritis (p314), anti-GBM disease. Other GNs may ‘transform’ to become rapidly progressive including IgA, membranous. Diagnosis: Breaks in the GBM allow an infl ux of infl ammatory cells so that crescents are seen on renal biopsy (may be referred to as crescentic GN) (fi g 7.12). Treatment: Corticosteroids and cyclophosphamide. Other treatments depend on aetiology eg plasma exchange for anti-GBM/ANCA vasculitis, possible role for monoclonal antibodies in lupus nephritis. Fig 7.11 Immunofl uorescence for IgG, show ing Fig 7.12 Crescentic GN: a prol iferation of epi- linear staining characteristic of anti-GBM disease. thelial cells and macrophages with rupture of Reproduced from Barratt et al., Oxford Desk Bowman’s capsule. Reference: Nephrology, 2008, with permission from Reproduced from Turner et al. Oxford Textbook Oxford University Press. of Nephrology, 2016, with permission from Oxford University Press. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 331111 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 enicidem laneR 312 Nephrotic syndrome If there is oedema, dipstick the urine to avoid missing renal disease. Defi nition The nephrotic syndrome is a triad of: • proteinuria >3g/24h (P:CR >300mg/mmol, A:CR >250mg/mmol, p294) • hypoalbuminaemia (usually <30g/L, can be <10g/L) • oedema. Aetiology Primary renal disease or secondary to a systemic disorder. • Primary renal disease: Minimal change disease, membranous nephropathy (may be associated with underlying infl ammation/malignancy), focal segmental glo- merulosclerosis (FSGS), membranoproliferative GN. • Secondary causes: DM, lupus nephritis,
