Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


in idi- opathic, other IgGs in secondary disease). ‘Spikes’ on silver stain. Treatment: ACE-i/ARB and blood pressure control in all. Immunosuppression (‘Ponticelli’ regimen: corticosteroids plus cyclophosphamide/chlorambucil) only in those at high risk of progression (proteinuria >4g without response to ACE-i/ ARB for 6 months, creatinine by 30% in 6–12 months but eGFR still >30). The role of targeted immunosuppression in those positive for anti-phospholipase A2 receptor antibodies remains unknown. In secondary disease proteinuria can remit with treatment of the underlying cause. Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis ~10% of adult nephrotic syndrome (higher in low- and middle-income countries due to infection). Divided into: • immune-complex associated: driven by increased or abnormal immune com- plexes which deposit in the kidney and activate complement. An underlying cause can be found in most adult cases, eg infection, cryoglobulinaemia, mono- clonal gammopathy, autoimmunity • C3 glomerulopathy: due to a genetic or acquired defect in the alternative comple- ment pathway, eg C3 nephritic factor. Progressive kidney dysfunction is common. Diagnosis: A proliferative glomerulonephritis with electron dense deposits. Im- munoglobulin deposition distinguishes immune-complex-associated disease from C3 glomerulopathy. Treatment: ACE-i/ARB and blood pressure control in all. Underlying cause in im- mune-complex disease. Trial of immunosuppression if no underlying cause found and progressive decline in renal function. Treatments to block or modify C3 activa- tion are awaited. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 331133 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 enicidem laneR 314 Renal manifestations of systemic disease Diabetic nephropathy DM nephropathy10 is the commonest cause of end-stage renal failure: ~30–40% of patients requiring renal replacement. Predicted prevalence  by 25–40% over next 20 years. Hyperglycaemia leads to growth factors, renin–angiotensin–aldosterone activation, production of advanced glycosylation end-products, and oxidative stress. Causes glomerular capillary pressure, podocyte damage, and endothelial dysfunc- tion. Albuminuria is fi rst clinical sign. Later scarring (glomerulosclerosis), nodule formation (Kimmelstiel–Wilson lesions), and fi brosis with progressive loss of renal function. Coexisting BP accelerates the disease course. Diagnosis: Microalbuminuria (‘moderately increased albuminuria’) = A:CR 3–30mg/ mmol (p294, 302). Regression at this level of disease is possible. Not detected on standard dipstick  must send A:CR. Screen annually. Treatment: • Intensive DM control prevents microalbuminuria and reduces risk of progression to macroalbuminuria (‘severely increased albuminuria’) = A:CR >30mg/mmol. HbA1C of 53mmol/mol (7%) reduces the development of all microvascular complications. However, less impact on CVD risk and hard renal outcomes including progression to kidney failure. Consider risk of hypoglycaemia. • BP <130/80. Use ACE-i or ARB for CV and renal protection above
