Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


impact on CVD risk and hard renal outcomes including progression to kidney failure. Consider risk of hypoglycaemia. • BP <130/80. Use ACE-i or ARB for CV and renal protection above BP control. Can pre- vent progression from normoalbuminuria to microalbuminuria to macroalbuminu- ria in hypertensive DM. (Less clear benefi t in normotensive DM but recommended if A:CR >30mg/mmol.) No head-to-head studies of ACE-i/ARB in DM but equivalence outside DM. If cough with ACE-i switch to ARB. No benefi t to dual therapy and risk of K+. Data on direct renin inhibitors (eg aliskiren) awaited. • Sodium restriction to <2g/day (=<5g sodium chloride/day). • Statins to reduce CV risk (p305). Unclear benefi t once on dialysis: do not initiate but do not need to discontinue if tolerated. Lupus nephritis SLE is a systemic autoimmune disease with antibodies against nuclear components, eg double-stranded (ds)DNA. Deposition of antibody complexes causes infl ammation and tissue damage. Presentation: Rash, photosensitivity, ulcers, arthritis, serositis, CNS eff ects, cytopenias, and renal disease. Nephropathy is common (50% in fi rst year, 75% overall). Can present as nephritis (p310) or nephrosis (p312). Diagnosis: Clinical. Antibody profi le: ANA is sensitive but not specifi c. Anti-dsDNA has a specifi city of 75– 100% and titres correlate with disease activity. Consider biopsy if A:CR >30, P:CR >50. Treatment: Depends on histological class. Classes I and II show mild changes with little risk of renal disease progression: ACE-i/ARB for renal protection and hydroxy- chloroquine for extra-renal disease. Classes III-V require immunosuppression: my- cophenolate, glucocorticoids, cyclophosphamide, rituximab. Small vessel vasculitis Multiple classifi cation systems exist. Clinical phenotype and ANCA subtype are im- portant. ANCA-associated vasculitis (AAV) occurs with or without specifi city for pro- teinase 3 (PR3) and myeloperoxidase (MPO). AAV classically presents at an older age (>60yrs) and accounts for 20% of biopsy fi ndings >80yrs. Ask about lethargy, fever, myalgia, anorexia (‘When did you last feel well?’). Ask about respiratory symptoms and investigate for pulmonary haemorrhage. Diagnosis: Clinical + ANCA + biopsy: rapidly progressive GN (p311) without immune deposits (‘pauci-immune’). Treatment: High-dose glucocorticoids plus cyclophosphamide or rituximab. Plasma exchange if presents with renal failure or pulmonary haemorrhage. Myeloma (See p368.) Associated renal disease in up to 40%: tubular obstruction due to light chain casts (‘myeloma kidney’); deposition of Ig/light chains in glomerulus (causes proteinuria); hypercalcaemia; renal tract infection due to immunoparesis. Treatment: Adequate hydration, bisphosphonates for hypercalcaemia (care if GFR <30),
