Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


light chain casts (‘myeloma kidney’); deposition of Ig/light chains in glomerulus (causes proteinuria); hypercalcaemia; renal tract infection due to immunoparesis. Treatment: Adequate hydration, bisphosphonates for hypercalcaemia (care if GFR <30), anti-myeloma treatment including glucocorticoids. It remains unclear whether there is a benefi t in removing light chains by either plasma exchange or large pore haemodialysis. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 331144 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 enicidem laneR Amyloid 315 Pathological folding of proteins leads to extracellular accumulation and organ dys- function including kidney disease. Classifi ed according to protein: light chains in myeloma = AL amyloid; serum amyloid A in chronic infl ammation = AA amyloid; also rare familial types. Diagnosis: Congo red staining on biopsy, SAP scan. Treatment: Underlying condition. New therapies target amyloid production, aggregation, and breakdown. Haemolytic uraemic syndrome (HUS) Presents with a microangiopathic haemolytic anaemia (Hb <100g/L, LDH, haptoglobin, fragments on blood fi lm), platelets and AKI due to thrombosis of the glomerular capillaries (microangiopathy). In children, primarily associated with haemorrhagic colitis due to Shiga toxin-producing E. coli (STEC) eg O157:H7. Atypi- cal HUS caused by dysregulation/uncontrolled activation of complement = ~ 5% of HUS. Can be precipitated by pregnancy. Diagnosis: Triad of haemolytic anaemia, platelets, and AKI with haematuria/proteinuria. ?Evidence of STEC. Look for abnor- malities in the complement pathway: levels of C3, C4, factors H and I, complement mutation screen. Treatment: STEC-HUS: supportive. aHUS: plasma infusion/exchange, eculizumab (anti-C5) in England via the national aHUS centre, Newcastle-Upon-Tyne. Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) Symptoms overlap with HUS (see previous paragraph). Pentad: microangiopathic haemolytic anaemia, platelets, AKI , neurological symptoms (headache, palsies, sei- zure, confusion, coma), and fever. Due to a congenital defi ciency of, or acquired anti- bodies to, the ADAMTS13 protease which normally cleaves multimers of von Willebrand factor (VWF). Large VWF multimers cause platelet aggregation and fi brin deposition in small vessels, leading to a multisystem thrombotic microangiopathy. Diagnosis: Clinical. ADAMTS13 activity. Treatment: TTP is a haematological emergency: get expert help. Plasma infusion/exchange removes antibodies/replaces ADAMTS13 and may be life-saving. Corticosteroids. Consider rituximab for non-responders/relapse. Atherosclerotic renovascular disease Part of a systemic atheromatous vascular disease including cardio-, cerebro-, and peripheral vascular disease (ask about claudication, check foot pulses), BP, and lipids. Leads to renin–angiotensin upregulation which causes treatment-resistant BP and/or a deterioration in renal function on ACE-i/ARB. Acute decompensated heart failure (no LV impairment on echo) with fl ash pulmonary oedema in up to 10%. Di- agnosis: >1.5cm asymmetry in renal
