Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


be needed. (Alkalinization of urine hypothesized to crystallization and toxic metabolites but no RCT evidence to support use over other crystalloids and beware Ca2+.) Urate nephropathy In acute crystal nephropathy, uric acid crystals precipitate within the tubulointer- stitium causing GFR and secondary infl ammation. Seen in tumour lysis syndrome when a high tumour burden and sensitivity to chemotherapy cause uric acid which precipitates in association with phosphate. In addition, serum uric acid is a risk factor for CKD: hypothesized stimulus for arterial disease with pathological autoregu- lation of renal blood fl ow, renin, and BP. Treatment: Tumour lysis: aggressive hy- dration, allopurinol/rasburicase to synthesis of uric acid. Chronic disease: unclear whether diet/treatment to uric acid (allopurinol, febuxostat) improves outcome. Radiation nephritis Renal impairment due to ionizing radiation. Presents 6 months–years after total body irradiation, local fi eld radiotherapy, or targeted radionucleotide therapy. Presents with BP, proteinuria/haematuria, progression to renal failure. Prognosis linked to BP. Treatment: Radiation dose with shielding. As CKD (pp304–5) with strict BP control. Aristolochic acid nephropathy Herbal remedies containing aristolochic acid can cause progressive CKD. Dispropor- tionate anaemia, mild proteinuria, and renal dysfunction. Biopsy: extensive fi brosis and tubular atrophy. Risk of urothelial malignancy ≈5, occurs in up to 40%. Aris- tolochic acid thought to be underlying cause of Balkan endemic nephropathy: clus- ter of CKD/renal failure in Balkan areas where aristolochic acid is detected in wheat. Treatment: Avoid exposure. Treat as CKD (pp304–5). Screen for malignancy. Consider therapeutic trial of steroids (limited data). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 331199 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 enicidem laneR 320 Inherited kidney disease Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) 1 in 400–1000 (~7 million worldwide). De novo mutation in ~10%. 2/3 will require renal replacement. 85% have mutations in PKD1 (chromosome 16) and reach ESRF by 50s. Mutation in PKD2 (chromosome 4) has a slower course, reaching ESRF by 70s. Presentation: May be clinically silent unless cysts become symptomatic due to size/ haemorrhage (fi g 7.14). Loin pain, visible haematuria, cyst infection, renal calculi, BP, progressive renal failure. Extrarenal: liver cysts, intracranial aneurysmSAH (p478), mitral valve prolapse, ovarian cyst, diverticular disease. Diagnosis: USS is modality of choice. Renal cysts are common and prevalence with age so diagnostic criteria are age-specifi c: 15–39yrs ≥ 3 cysts, 40–59yrs >2 cysts in each kidney give a positive pre- dictive value of 100% for both PKD1 and PKD2 mutations. Sensitivity is >93% for PKD1 but only 69% for diagnosis of
