Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


rather, it was postulated by Fahråeus (1921, the Swedish physician who pioneered the ESR, p372) that humourism arose from watching blood coagulate in vitro: distilling into layers of bilious yellow serum fl oating on a scurf of white cells, with the dark red-black clot of erythrocytes lurking in the depths of the sample. These four humours were later elaborated by Roman physician, surgeon, and philosopher Claudius Galen (c.129–c.201AD) who attributed physical and behav- ioural traits to each humour: sanguine people are warm hearted and confi dent, the phlegmatic practical and rational, those with a choleric nature are fi ery and passionate, while the melancholic (melas=black, khole=bile) are depressed yet creative.1 It was thought that an imbalance of any of these elements was the source of disease, a belief which led to the wide-scale recommendation of the removal of the excess bodily fl uid: expectoration, purging, and most popularly, blood-letting. William Harvey, Sydenham, and Dupytren are among the famous names who celebrated this cure, Harvey stating that ‘daily experience satisfi es us that blood-letting has a most salutary eff ect in many diseases, and is indeed the foremost among all the general remedial means’. Many tools were devel- oped to aid this procedure, notably a collecting bowl with a convenient notch for the antecubital fossa or neck: the predecessor of the modern kidney dish. Such was the conviction of the healing brought about by bloodletting that ‘haematomania’ reigned despite a suspicious degree of mortality. Indeed, it may have even killed inaugural US president George Washington in 1799: on develop- ing laryngitis he was enthusiastically bled four times by his personal physician, and died 24 hours after symptom onset. Eventually, the credibility of this practice waned, and by 1860 it had virtually disappeared. However, venesection still plays an important role in the manage- ment of haemachromatosis (see p288) and polycythaemia rubra vera (p366). Fig 8.2 A normal blood fi lm, with a neutrophil, red cells, and platelets (arrows). ©Prof. K Lewandowski & Dr H Jastrow. 1 Compare these personalities with those of the 2015 anthropomorphic Pixar fi lm ‘Inside Out’. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 332233 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH 324 Anaemia Anaemia is defi ned as a low haemoglobin (Hb) concentration, and may be due either to a low red cell mass or increased plasma volume (eg in pregnancy). A low Hb (at sea level) is <135g/L for men and <115g/L for women. Anaemia may be
