Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


to a low red cell mass or increased plasma volume (eg in pregnancy). A low Hb (at sea level) is <135g/L for men and <115g/L for women. Anaemia may be due to reduced pro- duction or increased loss of RBCS and has many causes. These will often be distinguish- able by history, examination, and inspection of the blood fi lm (fi g 8.2, p323). Symptoms Due to the underlying cause or to the anaemia itself: fatigue, dyspnoea, faintness, palpitations, headache, tinnitus, anorexia—and angina if there is pre-exist- ing coronary artery disease. Signs May be absent even in severe anaemia. There may be pallor (eg of the con- junctivae, see fi g 8.3, although this is not a reliable sign). In severe anaemia (Hb <80g/L), there may be signs of a hyperdynamic circulation, eg tachycardia, fl ow murmurs (ejection-systolic loudest over apex), and cardiac enlargement; or retinal haemorrhages (rarely). Later, heart failure may occur: here, rapid blood transfusion can be fatal. Types of anaemia The fi rst step in diagnosis is to look at the mean cell volume (MCV). Normal MCV is 76–96 femtolitres (1015 fL = 1L). Low MCV (microcytic anaemia): 1 Iron-defi ciency anaemia (IDA), the most common cause: see p326. 2 Thalassaemia (suspect if the MCV is ‘too low’ for the Hb level and the red cell count is raised, though defi nitive diagnosis needs DNA analysis): see p342. 3 Sideroblastic anaemia (very rare): p326. NB: there is iron accumulation in the last two conditions, and so tests will show in- creased serum iron and ferritin with a low total iron-binding capacity (TIBC). Normal MCV (normocytic anaemia): 1 Acute blood loss. 5 Hypothyroidism (or MCV). 2 Anaemia of chronic disease (or MCV). 6 Haemolysis (or MCV). 3 Bone marrow failure. 7 Pregnancy. 4 Renal failure. NB: if wcc or platelet in normocytic anaemia, suspect marrow failure: see p364. High MCV (macrocytic anaemia): 1 B12 or folate defi ciency. 5 Myelodysplastic syndromes. 2 Alcohol excess—or liver disease. 6 Marrow infi ltration. 3 Reticulocytosis (p328, eg with haemolysis). 7 Hypothyroidism. 4 Cytotoxics, eg hydroxycarbamide. 8 Antifolate drugs (eg phenytoin). Haemolytic anaemias: These do not fi t into the above-mentioned classifi cation as the anaemia may be normocytic or, if there are many young (hence larger) RBCS and reticulocytes, macrocytic (p332). Suspect if there is a reticulo cytosis (>2% of RBCS; or reticu locyte count >100≈109/L), mild macroc ytosis, haptoglobin, bilirubin,
