Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


are many young (hence larger) RBCS and reticulocytes, macrocytic (p332). Suspect if there is a reticulo cytosis (>2% of RBCS; or reticu locyte count >100≈109/L), mild macroc ytosis, haptoglobin, bilirubin, LDH, or urobilinogen. These patients will often be mildly jaundiced (but note that haemolysis causes pre-hepatic jaundice so there will be no bilirubin in their urine). Does the patient need a blood transfusion? Probably not if Hb >70g/L. Chronic anaemia in particular can be well-tolerated (though it is crucial to ascertain the cause), and in IDA iron supplements will raise the Hb more safely and cost-eff ec- tively. In acute anaemia (eg haemorrhage with active peptic ulcer), transfusion for those with Hb <70g/L may be indicated. Other factors to consider include comor- bidities (particularly IHD) and whether the patient is symptomatic. In severe anaemia with heart failure, transfusion is vital to restore Hb to a safe level, eg 60–80g/L, but this must be done with great care. Give it slowly with 10– 4 0mg furosemide IV/PO with alternate units (dose depends on previous exposure to diuretics; do not mix with blood). Check for signs of worsening overload: rising JVP and basal crackles: in this eventuality, stop and treat. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 332244 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH 325 Fig 8.3 ‘Conjunctival pallor’, the classic sign of anaemia, is a confusing term as the conjunctiva is translucent, trans mitting the colour of structures under it. The ‘pallor’ refers to the vasculature on the inner surface of the lid which is lacking Hb. It is this colour but it should be: Red cell distribution width (RCDW or RDW) In health or in unifactorial anaemia, all the red cells in a sample are about the same size, and the graph of their volume distribution forms a narrow peak. In mixed anaemias, however, this peak broadens, refl ecting an abnormally large RDW—this may be the fi rst clue to dual pathology. In coeliac disease, for example, poor ab- sorption of iron (MCV) and folate (MCV) may occur simultaneously, resulting in a combination of microcytes and macrocytes in the circulation. The visual analogue of this is anisocytosis (p328) on a blood fi lm. The laboratory measure is a RDW, where RDW = the standard deviation of MCV divided by the mean MCV, multiplied by 100. Reference interval: 11 . 5–14 . 6%. If the MCV is high and the RDW is normal, the cause is likely to be alcohol,
