Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


the mean MCV, multiplied by 100. Reference interval: 11 . 5–14 . 6%. If the MCV is high and the RDW is normal, the cause is likely to be alcohol, liver disease, or a marrow problem (chemotherapy or aplastic anaemia). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 332255 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH 326 Iron-defi ciency anaemia (IDA) This is common (seen in up to 14% of menstruating women). Causes •Blood loss, eg menorrhagia or GI bleeding2 (upper p256; lower p629). • Poor diet or poverty may cause IDA in babies or children (but rarely in adults). • Malabsorption (eg coeliac disease) is a cause of refractory IDA. • In the tropics, hookworm (GI blood loss) is the most common cause. Signs Chronic IDA (signs now rare): koilonychia (fi g 8.4 and p76), atrophic glossitis, angular cheilosis (fi g 8.5), and, rarely, post-cricoid webs (Plummer–Vinson syndrome). Tests Blood fi lm: microcytic, hypochromic anaemia with anisocytosis and poikilo- cytosis (fi gs 8.6, 8.7). MCV, MCH, and MCHC. Confi rmed by ferritin (also serum iron with TIBC, but these are less reliable, see table 8.1). NB: ferritin is an acute phase protein and  with infl ammation, eg infection, malignancy. Transferrin is also  in IDA but is less aff ected by infl ammation. Check coeliac serology in all (p266): if negative then refer all males and females who are not menstruating for urgent gastroscopy and colonoscopy. Consider stool microscopy for ova if relevant travel history. Faecal occult blood is not recommended as sensitivity is poor. IDA with no obvious source of bleeding mandates careful GI workup.2 Treatment Treat the cause. Oral iron, eg ferrous sulfate 200mg/8h PO. SE: nausea, ab- dominal discomfort, diarrhoea or constipation, black stools. Hb should rise by 10g/L/ week, with a modest reticulocytosis (young RBC, p328). Continue for at least 3 months after Hb normalizes to replenish stores. IV iron is only indicated if the oral route is impossible or ineff ective, eg functional iron defi ciency in chronic renal failure, where there is inadequate mobilization of iron stores in response to erythropoietin therapy. The usual reason that IDA fails to respond to iron replacement is that the patient has rejected the pills—check compliance. Is the reason for the problem GI distur- bance? Altering the dose of elemental iron with a diff erent preparation may help. Alternatively, there may be continued blood loss, malabsorption, anaemia of chron- ic disease; or misdiagnosis, eg when thalassaemia is
