Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


dose of elemental iron with a diff erent preparation may help. Alternatively, there may be continued blood loss, malabsorption, anaemia of chron- ic disease; or misdiagnosis, eg when thalassaemia is to blame. Anaemia of chronic disease (secondary anaemia) The commonest anaemia in hospital patients (and the 2nd commonest, after IDA, worldwide). It arises from three problems (in which the polypeptide, hepcidin, plays a key role): 1 Poor use of iron in erythropoiesis. 2 Cytok ine-induced shortening of RBC survival. 3 Production of and response to erythropoietin. Causes Many, eg chronic infection, vasculitis, rheumatoid, malignancy, renal failure. Tests Ferritin normal or  in mild normocytic or microcytic anaemia (eg Hb >80g/L; see table 8.1). Check blood fi lm, B12, folate, TSH, and tests for haemolysis (p336). Treatment Treating the underlying disease may help (eg in 60% of patients with RA), as may erythropoietin (SE: fl u-like symptoms, hypertension, mild rise in the platelet count and thromboembolism). Also eff ective in improving quality of life in malignant disease. IV iron can safely overcome the functional iron defi ciency. Hepcidin inhibitors and infl ammatory modulators show promise. Sideroblastic anaemia Microcytic anaemia does not always mean iron defi ciency! 20% of older people with an MCV <75fL are not iron defi cient. Think of sideroblastic anaemia whenever microcytic anaemia is not responding to iron. This condition is characterized by ineff ective erythropoiesis, leading to iron absorption, iron loading in marrow ± hae- mosiderosis (endocrine, liver, and heart damage due to iron deposition). Causes Congenital (rare, x-linked) or acquir ed, eg idiopathic as one of the myelo- dysplastic/myeloprolife rative diseases, can also follow chemotherapy, anti-TB drugs, irradiation, alcohol or lead excess. Tests Look for ferritin, a hypo chromic blood fi lm, and disease-defi ning sideroblasts in the marrow (fi gs 8.8, 8.9; table 8.1). Treatment Remove the cause. Pyridoxine ± repeated transfusions for severe anaemia. 2 In one study, 11% presenting to their GP with IDA had GI carcinoma. Plan both upper and lower GI investiga- tion: there may be abnormalities on both. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 332266 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH Table 8.1 Interpreting plasma iron studies 327 Iron TIBC Ferritin Iron defi ciency    Anaemia of chronic disease    Chronic haemolysis    Haemochromatosis   (or )  Pregnancy    Sideroblastic anaemia    Fig 8.4 Koilonychia: spoon-shaped nails. Fig 8.5 Angular cheilosis (also known as sto- matitis):
