Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


 Haemochromatosis   (or )  Pregnancy    Sideroblastic anaemia    Fig 8.4 Koilonychia: spoon-shaped nails. Fig 8.5 Angular cheilosis (also known as sto- matitis): ulceration at the side of the mouth. Also a feature of vitamin B12 and B2 (ribofl a- vin) defi ciency, and glucagonoma (p223). Courtesy of Dr Joseph Thompson: AskAnOrtho- dontist.com. Fig 8.6 Microcytic hypochromic cells. Fig 8.7 Poikilocytosis and anisocytosis. Courtesy of Prof. Krzysztof Lewandowski Courtesy of Prof. Christine Lawrence. Fig 8.8 Ring sideroblasts in the marrow, with a Fig 8.9 Two ringed sideroblasts showing perinuclear ring of iron granules, found in sidero- how the distribution of perin uclear mito- blastic anaemia. chondrial ferritin can vary. The problem in Courtesy of Prof. Christine Lawrence. congenital sideroblastic anaemia is disordered mitochondrial haem synthesis. Courtesy of Prof. Tangün and Dr Körogˇlu. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 332277 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH 328 The peripheral blood fi lm Many haematological (and other) diagnoses are made by careful examination of the peripheral blood fi lm. It is also necessary for interpretation of the FBC indices. Features Include: Acanthocytes: (fi g 8.10) Spicules on RBCS ( unstable RBC membrane lipid structure); causes: splenectomy, alcoholic liver disease, abetalipoproteinaemia, spherocytosis. Anisocytosis: Variation in RBC size, eg megaloblastic anaemia, thalassaemia, IDA. Basophilic RBC stippling: (fi g 8.11) Denatured RNA found in RBCS, indicating acceler- ated erythropoiesis or defective Hb synthesis. Seen in lead poisoning, megaloblastic anaemia, myelodysplasia, liver disease, haemoglobinopathy, eg thalassaemia. Blasts: Nucleated precursor cells. They should not normally appear in peripheral blood but do in myelofi brosis, leukaemia, and malignant marrow infi ltration. Burr cells (echinocytes): RBC projections (less marked than in acanthocytes); fi g 8.12. Cabot rings: Seen in: pernicious anaemia; lead poisoning; bad infections (fi g 8.13).1 Dimorphic picture: Two populations of red cells. Seen after treatment of Fe, B12, or folate defi ciency, in mixed defi ciency (Fe with B12 or folate), post-transfusion, or with primary sideroblastic anaemia, where a clone of abnormal erythroblasts produce abnormal red cells, alongside normal red cell production. Howell–Jolly bodies: DNA nuclear remnants in RBCS, which are normally removed by the spleen (fi g 8.14). Seen post-splenectomy and in hyposplenism (eg sickle-cell disease, coeliac disease, congenital, UC/Crohn’s, myeloproliferative disease, amyloid). Also in dyserythropoietic states: myelodysplasia, megaloblastic anaemia. Hypochromia: (p326.) Less dense staining of RBCS due to Hb synthesis, seen in IDA, thalassaemia, and sideroblastic anaemia (iron stores unusable, p366). Left shift: Immature neutrophils
