Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


cations.  Body stores of B12 are suffi cient for 4yrs. Causes of defi ciency • Dietary (eg vegans: B12 is found in meat, fi sh, and dairy products, but not in plants). • Malabs orption: during digestion, intrinsic factor (IF) in the stomach binds B12, enabling it to be absorbed in the terminal ileum. Malab- sorption can therefore arise in the stomach due to lack of IF (pernicious anaemia, post gastrectomy) or the terminal ileum (ileal resection, Crohn’s disease, bacterial overgrowth, tropical sprue, tapeworms). • Congenital metabolic errors. Features General: Symptoms of anaemia (p324), ‘lemon tinge’ to skin due to combination of pallor (anaemia) and mild jaundice (due to haemolysis), glossitis (beefy-red sore tongue; fi g 8.27), angular cheilosis (p326). Neuropsychiatric: Irritability, depression, psychosis, dementia. Neurological: Paraesthesiae, peripheral neuropathy. Also subacute combined degeneration of the spinal cord, a combination of peripheral sensory neuropa- thy with both upper and lower motor neuron signs due to B12. The patient may display the classical triad of: • extensor plantars (UMN) • absent knee jerks (LMN) • absent ankle jerks (LMN). The onset is insidious (subacute) and signs are symmet- rical. There is a combination of poste rior (dorsal) column loss, causing the sensory and LMN signs, and corticospinal tract loss, causing the motor and UMN signs (p446). The spinothalamic tracts are preserved so pain and temperature sensation may remain intact even in severe cases. Joint-position and vibration sense are often aff ected fi rst leading to ataxia, followed by stiff ness and weakness if untreated. The neurological signs of B12 defi ciency can occur without anaemia. Pernicious anaemia (PA) This is an autoimmune condition in which atrophic gastritis leads to a lack of IF secretion from the parietal cells of the stomach. Dietary B12 there- fore remains unbound and conseqeuently cannot be absorbed by the terminal ileum. Incidence: 1:1000; :≈1.6:1; usually >40yrs; higher incidence if blood group A. Associations: Other autoimmune diseases (p553): thyroid disease (~25%), vitiligo, Addison’s disease, hypoparathyroidism. Carcinoma of stomach is ~3-fold more common in pernicious anaemia, so have a low threshold for upper GI endoscopy. Tests: • Hb. • MCV. • WCC and platelets if severe. • Serum B124. • Reticulocytes may be  as production impaired. • Hypersegmented neutrophils (p332). • Megaloblasts in the marrow. • Specifi c tests for PA: 1 Parietal cell antibodies: found in 90% with PA, but also in 3–10% without. 2 IF
