Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


marrow does not compensate suffi ciently, a haemolytic anaemia results. An approach is fi rst to confi rm haemolysis and then fi nd the cause—try to answer these four questions: 1 Is there increased red cell breakdown? • Anaemia with normal or MCV. • Bilirubin: unconjugated, from haem breakdown (pre-hepatic jaundice). • Urinary urobilinogen (no urinary conjugated bilirubin). • Serum LDH, as it is released from red cells. 2 Is there increased red cell production? • Reticulocytes, causing MCV (reticulocytes are large immature RBCS) and poly- chromasia. 3 Is the haemolysis mainly extra- or intravascular? Extravascular haemolysis may lead to splenic hypertrophy and splenomegaly. Features of intravascular haemolysis are: • Free plasma haemoglobin: released from RBCS. • Methaemalbuminaemia: some free Hb is broken down in the circulation to pro- duce haem and globin; haem combines with albumin to make methaemalbumin. • Plasma haptoglobin: mops up free plasma Hb, then removed by the liver. • Haemoglobinuria: causes red-brown urine, in absence of red blood cells. • Haemosiderinuria: occurs when haptoglobin-binding capacity is exceeded, causing free Hb to be fi ltered by the renal glomeruli, with absorption of free Hb via the renal tubules and storage in the tubular cells as haemosiderin. This is detected in the urine as sloughed tubular cells by Prussian blue staining ~1 week after onset (implying a chronic intravascular haemolysis). 4 Why is there haemolysis? Causes are on p338. History Family history, race, jaundice, dark urine, drugs, previous anaemia, travel. Examination Jaundice, hepatosplenomegaly, gallstones (pigmented, due to bili- rubin from haemolysis), leg ulcers (due to poor blood fl ow). Tests FBC, reticulocytes, bilirubin, LDH, haptoglobin, urinary urobilinogen. Thick and thin fi lms for malaria screen if history of travel. The blood fi lm may show poly- chromasia and macrocytosis due to reticulocytes, or point to the diagnosis: • Hypochromic microcytic anaemia (thalassaemia). • Sickle cells (sickle-cell anaemia). • Schistocytes (fi g 8.30, p339; microangiopathic haemolytic anaemia). • Abnormal cells in haematological malignancy. • Spherocytes (hereditary spherocytosis or autoimmune haemolytic anaemia). • Elliptocytes (fi g 8.36, p339; hereditary elliptocytosis). • Heinz bodies, ‘bite’ cells (fi g 8.32, p339; glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase defi ciency). Further tests (if the cause is still not obvious) • Osmotic fragility testing will confi rm the presence of membrane abnormalities which have been identifi ed on the fi lm. • Hb electrophoresis will detect haemoglobinopathies. • The direct antiglobulin (Coombs) test (DAT, fi g 8.28)
