Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


is variable. Hb ≈ 60–90g/L, reticulocytes 10–20%, bilirubin. Film: sickle cells and target cells (fi g 8.37). Sickle solubility test: +ve, but does not distinguish between HbSS and HbAS. Hb electrophoresis: Confi rms the diagnosis and distinguishes SS, AS states, and other Hb variants. Aim for diagnosis at birth (cord blood) to aid prompt pneumococcal prophylaxis (vaccine, p167 ± penicillin V). Signs/symptoms Chronic haemolysis is usually well tolerated (except in crises; see BOX ‘Managing sickle-cell crises’). Vaso-occlusive ‘painful’ crisis: Common, due to microvascular occlusion. Often af- fects the marrow, causing severe pain, triggered by cold, dehydration, infection, or hypoxia. Hands and feet are aff ected if <3yrs old leading to dactylitis. Occlusion may cause mesenteric ischaemia, mimicking an acute abdomen. CNS infarction occurs in ~10% of children, leading to stroke, seizures, or cognitive defects. Transc ranial Doppler ultrasonography indicates risk of impending stroke, and blood transfusions can prevent this by reducing HbS. Also avascular necrosis (eg of femoral head), leg ulcers (fi g 8.38) and low-fl ow priapism (also seen in CML, may respond to hydration, -agonists, eg phenylephrine, or aspiration of blood + irrigation with saline; if for >12h prompt cavernosus–spongiosum shunting can prevent later impotence). Aplastic crisis: This is due to parvovirus B19, with sudden reduction in marrow production, especially RBCs. Usually self-limiting <2wks; transfusion may be needed. Sequestration crisis: Mainly aff ects children as in adults the spleen becomes atrophic. There is pooling of blood in the spleen ± liver, with organomegaly, severe anaemia, and shock. Urgent transfusion is needed. Complications • Splenic infarction occurs before 2yrs old, due to micro- vascular occlusion, leading to susceptibility to infection (40% of childhood sickle deaths are caused this way). • Poor growth. • Chronic renal failure. • Gall- stones. • Retinal disease. • Iron overload (see BOX ‘A 7-year-old ...’). •Lung damage: hypoxiafi brosispulmonary hypertension. Management of chronic disease Get help from a haematologist. • Hydroxycarbamide if frequent crises (production of fetal haemoglobin, HbF). Dose example: 20mg/kg/d if eGFR >60mL/min. • Splenic infarction leads to hyposplenism and immunocompromise. Prophylaxis, in terms of antibiotics and immunization, should be given (p373). • Febrile children risk septicaemia: repeated admission may be avoided by early rescue out-patient antibiotics, eg ceftriaxone (eg 2 doses, 50mg/kg IV on day 0 and 1). Consider admission if Hb <50g/L, WCC <5 or >30 ≈ 109/L, T° >40°C, severe pain, dehydration, lung infi ltration. Seek expert advice. •
