Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


cannot be kept above 9.2kPa (70mmHg) when breathing air. Patient-controlled analgesia is a good option if supportive measures and oral analgesia do not control pain. Start with morphine 1mg/kg in 50mL 5% glucose (paediatric dose) and try a rate of 1mL/h, allowing the patient to deliver extra boluses of 1mL when needed. Check respiratory rate and GCS every ¼h + O2 sats if chest/abdominal pain. Liaise with the local pain service. Fig 8.37 Sickle-cell fi lm: there are sickle cells, Fig 8.38 Leg ulcers in sickle-cell dise ase. target cells, and a nucleated red cell. ©Prof. C Lawrence. ©Prof. C Lawrence. A 7-year-old tells us what it’s like to have sickle-cell disease ‘I have been hospitalized over 50 times for complications from this disease. To keep it controlled I started having monthly transfusions. After repeated trans- fusions my body began to get too much iron so I had to start getting infusions. I was taking the medication desferal5 which my mummy had to insert a needle in my belly hooked up to a pump which I had to carry on my back in my neat Spiderman backpack. I was hooked up to the machine for 10 hours a day 5 days a week but it was okay I still got to play!!! I suff ered from pain crisis which makes my legs and back hurt like someone is hitting me with a hammer. You may notice that I may move slow or look tired when it is time for my blood transfusion. That is because the transfusions are like a heartbeat for my body, without it I can’t survive. When I’m in pain the only thing that helps is morphine… I tell my mummy when she’s crying I WILL BE OK!!’ 5 This was necessary until a once-daily oral iron chelator came along: deferasirox. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 334411 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH 342 Thalassaemia The thalassaemias are genetic diseases of unbalanced Hb synthesis, with underpro- duction (or no production) of one globin chain (see table 8.2 and BOX). Unmatched globins precipitate, damaging RBC membranes, causing their haemolysis while still in the marrow. They are common in areas from the Mediterranean to the Far East. The  thalassaemias Usually caused by point mutations in -globin genes on chromosome 11, leading to  chain production (+) or its absence (0). Various combinations of mutations are possible (eg 0/0, +/+, or +/0). Tests: FBC, MCV, fi
