Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


-globin genes on chromosome 11, leading to  chain production (+) or its absence (0). Various combinations of mutations are possible (eg 0/0, +/+, or +/0). Tests: FBC, MCV, fi lm, iron, HbA2, HbF, Hb electrophoresis. MRI where myocardial siderosis suspected (from iron overload).  thalassaemia minor or trait (eg /+; heterozygous state): this is a carrier state, and is usually asymptomatic. Mild, well-tolerated anaemia (Hb >90g/L) which may worsen in pregnancy. MCV <75fL, HbA2 >3.5%, slight HbF. Often con- fused with iron-defi ciency anaemia.  thalassaemia intermedia: describes an intermediate state with moderate anae- mia but not requiring transfusions. There may be splenomegaly. There are a vari- ety of causes including mild homozygous  thalassaemia mutations, eg +/+, or co-inheritance of  thalassaemia trait with another haemoglobinopathy, eg HbC thalassaemia (one parent has the HbC trait, and the other has +). Sickle-cell + thalassaemia produces a picture similar to sickle-cell anaemia.  thalassaemia major: denotes signifi cant abnormalities in both -globin genes, and presents in the 1st year, with severe anaemia and failure to thrive. Extra- medullary haematopoiesis (RBCS made outside the marrow) occurs in response to anaemia, causing characteristic head shape, eg skull bossing (fi gs 8.39, 8.40) and hepato spleno megaly (also due to haem olysis). There is osteopenia (may respond to zoledronic acid). Skull X-ray shows a ‘hair on end’ sign due to marrow activity. Life-long blood transfusions are needed, with resulting iron overload/deposition seen after ~10yrs as endocrine failure (pituitary, thyroid, pancreasdiabetes mel- litus), liver disease, and cardiac toxicity. The fi lm shows very hypochromic, micro- cytic cells + target cells + nucleated RBCs. HbF, HbA2 variable, HbA absent. Treatment: Promote fi tness; healthy diet. Folate supplements help. • Regular (~2–4 weekly) life-long transfusions to keep Hb >90g/L, to suppress the ineff ective extramedullary haematopoiesis and to allow normal growth. Iron overload is a big problem causing hypothyroidism, hypocalcaemia, and hypo- gonadism. Can be mitigated by iron-chelators (deferiprone PO + desferrioxamine sc twice weekly. SE: pain, deafness, cataracts, retinal damage, risk of Yersinia). Large doses of ascorbic acid can also help by urinary excretion of iron. • Splenectomy if hypersplenism persists with increasing transfusion requirements (p373)—this is best avoided until >5yrs old due to risk of infections. • Hormonal replacement or treatment for endocrine complications, eg diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism. Growth hormone treatment has had variable success. • A histocompatible marrow transplant can off er the
