Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


of infections. • Hormonal replacement or treatment for endocrine complications, eg diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism. Growth hormone treatment has had variable success. • A histocompatible marrow transplant can off er the chance of a cure. Prevention: Approaches include genetic counselling or antenatal diagnosis using fetal blood or DNA, then ‘therapeutic’ abortion. The  thalassaemias (fi g 8.41) There are two separate -globin genes on each chromosome 16  there are four genes (termed /). The  thalassaemias are mainly caused by gene deletions. If all four  genes are deleted (--/--), death is in utero (Bart’s hydrops). Here, HbBarts (4) is present, which is physiologically use- less. HbH disease occurs if three genes are deleted (--/-); there may be moderate anaemia and features of haemolysis: hepatosplenomegaly, leg ulcers, and jaun- dice. In the blood fi lm, there is formation of 4 tetramers (=HbH) due to excess  chains, HbBarts, HbA, and HbA2. If two genes are deleted (--/ or -/-), there is an asymptomatic carrier state, with MCV. With one gene deleted, the clinical state is normal. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 334422 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH Structure of haemoglobin 343 Table 8.2 The three main types of Hb in adult blood Type Peptide chains % in adult blood % in fetal blood HbA 2 2 97 10–50 HbA2 2 2 2.5 Trace HbF 2 2 0.5 50–90 Adult haemoglobin (HbA ) is a tetramer of 2 - and 2 -globin chains each con- taining a haem group. In the fi rst year of life, adult haemoglobin replaces fetal haemoglobin (HbF). It might be thought that because the molecular details of the thalassaemias are so well worked out they represent a perfect example of the reductionist principle at work: fi nd out exactly what is happening within molecules, and you will be able to explain all the manifestations of a disease. But this is not so. We have to recog- nize that two people with the identical mutation at their  loci may have quite dif- ferent diseases. Co-inheritance of other genes and conditions (eg  thalassaemia) is part of the explanation, as is the effi ciency of production of fetal haemoglobin. The reasons lie beyond simple co-segregation of genes promoting the formation of fetal Hb. The rate of proteolysis of excess -globin chains may also be impor- tant—as may mechanisms that have little to do with genetic or molecular events. Fig 8.40  thalassaemia major:
