Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


The rate of proteolysis of excess -globin chains may also be impor- tant—as may mechanisms that have little to do with genetic or molecular events. Fig 8.40  thalassaemia major: skull x-ray. ©Crookston collection. Fig 8.39  thalassaemia major: bossing due to extramedullary haematopoiesis. ©Dr E van der Enden. Fig 8.41  thalassaemia showing Mexican hat cells (also called target cells)—one of which is arrowed on the left panel. Note also the tear-drop cell on the right panel, and the 2 normo blasts (nucleated red cells, one on each panel). The shorter arrow on the left panel points to a Howell– Jolly body. Note that the cells which are not Mexican hats are rather small (microcytic). There is also poikilocytosis (poikilos is Greek for varied—so this simply means that the red blood cells are of varied shape). Courtesy of Prof. Tangün and Dr Körogˇlu. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 334433 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH 344 Bleeding disorders After injury, three processes halt bleeding: vasoconstriction, gap-plugging by plate- lets, and the coagulation cascade (fi g 8.42). Disorders of haemostasis fall into these three groups. The pattern of bleeding is important—vascular and platelet disorders lead to prolonged bleeding from cuts, bleeding into the skin (eg easy bruising and purpura), and bleeding from mucous membranes (eg epistaxis, bleeding from gums, menorrhagia). Coagulation disorders cause delayed bleeding into joints and muscle. 1 Vascular defects Congenital: Osler–Weber–Rendu syndrome (p708), conne ctive tissue disease (eg Ehlers–Danlos syndrome, OHCS p642, pseudoxanthoma elasticum). Acquired: Senile purpura, infection (eg meningococcal, measles, dengue fever), steroids, scurvy (perifollicular haemorrhages), Henoch–Schönlein purpura (p702). 2 Platelet disorders Decreased marrow production: Aplastic anaemia (p364), megaloblastic anaemia, marrow infi ltration (eg leukaemia, myeloma), marrow suppression (cytotoxic drugs, radiotherapy). Excess destruction: Immune: im- mune thrombocytopenia (ITP, see BOX ‘Immune thrombocytopenia’), other auto- immune causes, eg SLE, CLL, drugs, eg heparin, viruses; Non-immune: DIC (p352), thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), or HUS (p315), sequestration (in hy- persplenism). Poorly functioning platelets: Seen in myeloproliferative disease, NSAIDS, and urea. 3 Coagulation disorders Congenital: Haemophilia, von Willebrand’s disease (p712). Acquired: Anticoagulants, liver disease, DIC (p352), vitamin K defi ciency. Haemophilia A Factor VIII defi ciency; inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern in 1 : 10 000 male births—usually due to a ‘fl ip tip’ inversion in the factor VIII gene in the X chromosome. There is a high rate of new mutations (30% have no family his- tory). Presentation depends on severity and is often early
