Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


the factor VIII gene in the X chromosome. There is a high rate of new mutations (30% have no family his- tory). Presentation depends on severity and is often early in life or after surgery/ trauma—with bleeds into joints leading to crippling arthropathy, and into mus- cles causing haematomas (pressure can lead to nerve palsies and compartment syndrome). Diagnose by APTT and factor VIII assay. Management: Seek expert advice. Avoid NSAIDS and IM injections (fi g 8.43). Minor bleeding: pressure and el- evation of the part. Desmopressin (0 . 3mcg/kg/12h IVI over 20min) raises factor VIII levels, and may be suffi cient. Major bleeds (eg haemarthrosis): factor VIII levels to 50% of normal, eg with recombinant factor VIII. Life-threatening bleeds (eg obstructing airway) need levels of 100%. Genetic counselling: OHCS p154. Haemophilia B (Christmas disease) Factor IX defi ciency (inherited, X-linked re- cessive); behaves clinically like haemophilia A. Treat with recombinant factor IX. Acquired haemophilia is a bleeding diathesis causing big mucosal bleeds in males and females caused by suddenly appearing autoantibodies that interfere with factor VIII. Tests: APPT; VIII autoantibody; factor VIII activity <50%. : Steroids. Liver disease Produces a complicated bleeding disorder with synthesis of clot- ting factors, absorption of vitamin K, and abnormalities of platelet function. Malabsorption Leads to less uptake of vitamin K (needed for synthesis of factors II, VII, IX, and X). Treat with IV vitamin K (10mg). In acute haemorrhage, use hu- man prothrombin complex or FFP. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 334444 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH 345 Fig 8.43 Mild haemo- ph ilia after an IM inj- ect ion. Give vacc ines etc SC! Fig 8.42 Intrinsic and extrinsic pathways of coagulation (simplifi ed!). ©Crookston collection 53. Fibrinolysis The fi brinolytic system works by generating plasmin, which causes fi brin dissolution. The process starts with the release of tissue plasminogen activa- tor (t-PA) from endothelial cells, a process stimulated by fi brin formation. t-PA converts inactive plasminogen to plasmin which can then cleave fi brin, as well as several other factors. t-PA and plasminogen both bind fi brin thus localizing fi brinolysis to the area of the clot. Fibrinolytic agents activate this system and can be utilized in order to break down pathological thrombi, eg in: acute MI, acute ischaemic stroke, DVT, PE, and central retinal venous or arterial thrombosis. In all cases the risk of adverse eff ects of thrombolysis (eg haemorrhage) must be outweighed by the
