Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


acute ischaemic stroke, DVT, PE, and central retinal venous or arterial thrombosis. In all cases the risk of adverse eff ects of thrombolysis (eg haemorrhage) must be outweighed by the poten- tial benefi ts. Streptokinase, a streptococcal exotoxin that binds and activates plasminogen, was the fi rst licensed agent but risks anaphylaxis on repeat dosing. Alteplase is recombinant t-PA. Newer agents include tenecteplase and reteplase. Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) ITP is caused by antiplatelet auto anti bodies. It is acute (usually in children, 2wks after infection with sudden self-limiting purpura: OHCS p197) or chronic (seen mainly in women). Chronic ITP runs a fl uctuating course of bleeding, purpura (esp. dependent pressure areas), epistaxis, and menorrhagia. There is no spleno- megaly. Tests: Megakaryocytes in marrow, antiplatelet autoantibodies often present. : None if mild. If symptomatic or platelets <20 ≈ 109/L, prednisolone 1mg/kg/d, and reduce after remission; aim to keep platelets >30 ≈ 109/L—takes a few days to work. Platelet transfusions are not used (except during splenecto- my or life-threatening haemorrhage) as these are quickly destroyed by the au- toantibodies. IV immunoglobulin may temporarily raise the platelet count, eg for surgery, pregnancy. If relapse, choices include splenectomy or B-cell depletion with rituximab. Eltrombopag (an oral thrombopoietin-receptor agonist) and romiplostim (an injectable thrombopoietin analogue) are alternative options for those with refractory disease. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 334455 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH 346 An approach to bleeding There are three sets of questions to be answered: 1 Is there an emergency needing immediate resuscitation or senior help? • Is the patient about to exsanguinate (dizzy on sitting up, shock, coma)? • Is there hypovolaemia (postural hypotension, oliguria)? • Is there CNS bleeding (meningism, CNS and retinal signs)? • Is there an underlying condition which escalates apparently minor bleeding into an evolving catastrophe? For example: • Bleeding in pregnancy or the puerperium. • GI bleeding in a jaundiced patient (ie coagulation factors already depleted). • Bleeding in someone who is already anaemic (esp if other comorbidities). 2 Why is the patient bleeding? Is bleeding normal, given the circumstances (eg surgery, trauma, parturition), or does the patient have a bleeding disorder (BOX ‘Is this pre-op patient at risk of excessive bleeding?’)? • Is there a secondary cause, eg drugs (warfarin), alcohol, liver disease, sepsis? • Is there unexplained bleeding, bruising, or purpura? • Past or family history of excess bleeding, eg during trauma, dentistry, surgery? • Is the pattern of bleeding
