Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


coagulopathies 347 Disorder INR APTT Thrombin time Platelet count Notes Heparin     DIC     D-dimer, p346 Liver disease   / / AST Platelet defect     Vit K defi ciency     Haemophilia     see p344 von Willebrand’s     see p712 Special tests may be available (factor assays: consult a haematologist). Towards a better assay for clotting function Bleeding time, a barbaric and unreliable test (the clue is in the name), is no longer used. Amongst the range of techniques to replicate the clotting process in vitro is thromboelastography (TEG). TEG permits rapid and more precise assays of clotting function under massive transfusion situations (eg major surgery, especially trauma). In particular, advances in this fi eld have been driven by recent military usage. Is this pre-op patient at risk of excessive bleeding? Take a bleeding history! The more structured this is the better. Enquire about factors which may indicate increased bleeding risk, such as: • past history of excessive, prolonged, or unexplained bleeding • comorbidities such as lupus or liver disease • on agents known to aff ect haemostasis. In such cases, or if bleeding would be disastrous, further tests may be indicated after discussion with a haematologist. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 334477 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH 348 Blood transfusion and blood products Blood should only be given if strictly necessary and there is no alternative. Out- comes may be worse after an inappropriate transfusion. • Know and use local procedures to ensure that the right blood gets to the right patient at the right time. • Take blood for crossmatching from only one patient at a time. Label immedi- ately. This minimizes risk of wrong labelling of samples. • When giving blood, monitor TPR and BP every ½h. • Use a dedicated line where practicable (or dedicated lumen of multilumen line). Group-and-save (G&S) requests Know your local guidelines for elective surgery. Having crossmatched blood to hand may not be needed if a blood sample is al- ready in the lab, with group determined, without any atypical antibodies (ie G&S). Products2 Whole blood: The only option for the fi rst 250 years of transfusion history, but now rarely used. Red cells: (Packed to make haematocrit ~70%.) Use to correct anaemia or blood loss. 1U Hb by 10–15g/L. In anaemia, transfuse until Hb ~80g/L. Platelets: (p364.) Usually only
