Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


rarely used. Red cells: (Packed to make haematocrit ~70%.) Use to correct anaemia or blood loss. 1U Hb by 10–15g/L. In anaemia, transfuse until Hb ~80g/L. Platelets: (p364.) Usually only needed if bleeding or count is <20 ≈ 109/L. 1U should platelet count by >20 ≈ 109/L. Failure to do so suggests refractory cause: discuss with haematologist. If surgery is planned, get advice if count is <100 ≈ 109/L. Fresh frozen plasma (FFP): Use to correct clotting defects: eg DIC (p352); warfarin overdosage where vitamin K would be too slow; liver disease; thrombotic thrombo- cytopenic purpura (p315). It is expensive and carries all the risks of blood transfu- sion. Do not use as a simple volume expander. Human albumin solution is produced as 4.5% or 20% protein solution and is used to replace protein. 20% albumin can be used temporarily in the hypoproteina emic patient (eg liver disease; nephrosis) who is fl uid overloaded, without giving an excessive salt load. Also used as replacement in abdominal paracentesis (p765). Others Cryoprecipitate (a source of fi brinogen); coagu lation concentrates (self-injected in haemophilia); immunoglobulins. Complications of transfusion Management of acute reactions:2 see BOX ‘Trans- fusion reactions’ and table 8.4. • Early (within 24h): Acute haemolytic reactions (eg ABO or Rh incompatibility); anaphylaxis; bacterial contamination; febrile reactions (eg from HLA antibodies); allergic reactions (itch, urticaria, mild fever); fl uid overload; transfusion-related acute lung injury (TRALI, ie ARDS due to antileucocyte antibodies in donor plasma). • Delayed (after 24h): Infections (eg viruses: hepatitis B/C, HIV; bacteria; protozoa; prions); iron overload (treatment, p342); GVHD; post-transfusion purpura—poten- tially lethal fall in platelet count 5–7d post-transfusion requiring specialist treat- ment with IV immunoglobulin and platelet transfusions. Massive blood transfusion This is defi ned as replacement of an individual’s en- tire blood volume (>10U) within 24h. Complications: platelets; Ca2+; clotting fac- tors; K+; hypothermia. Seek early and ongoing support from haematologist and blood bank who should advise on products and monitoring. In acute haemorrhage, use crossmatched blood if possible, but if not, use ‘universal donor’ group O RhΩve blood, changing to crossmatched blood as soon as possible. Transfusing patients with heart failure If Hb 50g/L with heart failure, trans- fusion with packed red cells is vital to restore Hb to a safe level, eg 60–80g/L, but must be done with care. Give each unit over 4h with furosemide (eg 40mg slow IV/PO; don’t mix with blood) with alternate
