Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Hb to a safe level, eg 60–80g/L, but must be done with care. Give each unit over 4h with furosemide (eg 40mg slow IV/PO; don’t mix with blood) with alternate units. Check for JVP and basal lung crackles; consider CVP line. Autologous transfusion There is a role for patients having their own blood stored pre-op for later use. Erythropoietin (EPO, p304) can increase the yield of au- tologous blood in normal people. Intraoperative cell salvage with retransfusion is also being used more often, especially in cardiac, vascular, and emergency surgery, Cost-analysis shows that it may be worthwhile on an economic basis alone. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 334488 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH Transfusion reactions 349 All UK blood products are now leucocyte-depleted (white cells <5≈106/L) so as to reduce the incidence of complications such as alloimmunization to HLA class I antigens and febrile transfusion reactions. Table 8.4 Management of transfusion reactions Acute haemolytic reaction STOP transfusion. Check identity and (eg ABO incompatibility) Agitati on, T° name on unit; tell haematologist; send (rapid onset), BP, fl us hing, abdominal/ unit + FBC, U&E, clotting, cultures, & urine chest pain, oozi ng venepuncture sites, DIC. (haemo globinuria) to lab. Keep IV line open with 0.9% saline. Treat DIC (p352). Anaphylaxis STOP the transfusion. Maintain airway Bronchospasm, cyanosis, BP, soft tissue and give oxygen. Contact anaesthetist. swelling. See p794. Bacterial contamination STOP the transfusion. Check identity T° (rapid onset), BP, and rigors. against name on unit; tell haematologist and send unit + FBC, U&E, clotting, cultures & urine to lab. Start broad-spectrum antibiotics. TRALI (See p348) Dyspnoea, cough; CXR STOP the transfusion. Give 100% O2. ‘white out’. Treat as ARDS, p186. Donor should be removed from donor panel. Non-haemolytic febrile transf usion SLOW or STOP the transfusion. Give an reaction anti pyretic, eg paracetamol 1g. Monitor Shivering and fever usually ½–1h after closely. If recurrent, use WBC fi lter. starting transfusion. Allergic reactions SLOW or STOP the transfusion; chlorphen- Urticaria and itch. amine 10mg slow IV/IM. Monitor closely. Fluid overload SLOW or STOP the transfusion. Give oxygen Dyspnoea, hypoxia, tachycardia, JVP and and a diuretic, eg furosemide 40mg IV basal crepitations. initially. Consider CVP line. Blood transfusion and Jehovah’s Witnesses Adult human beings (with mental ‘capacity’ see p568) have an absolute right to re- fuse any medical treatment, even if to do so seems illogical or could result in their death. To treat patients despite such a refusal
