Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


have an absolute right to re- fuse any medical treatment, even if to do so seems illogical or could result in their death. To treat patients despite such a refusal would amount to battery under common law, or could even amount to a degrading act or torture, against which the European Convention on Human Rights gives absolute, inalienable protection. The biblical verse ‘no soul of you shall eat blood’ (Leviticus 17:12) is one of sev- eral that have been interpreted by some religious groups to extend to acceptance of blood products in a medical context. Jehovah’s Witnesses, for example, may refuse potentially vital blood transfusions on such grounds. These views must be respected, but complex issues arise if the patient is a child, or an adult who may not be able to give or withhold consent in an informed way. In an immediately life-threatening situation where further delay may cause harm, treatment such as blood products may be given in the child’s best interest, but the team should always involve senior paediatricians and hospital ethicists where practical. If the requirement is less immediate, then the clinicians should seek further legal advice, which might involve approaching the Courts. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 334499 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH 350 Anticoagulants Main indications • Therapeutic: Venous thromboembolic disease: DVT and PE. • Prophylactic: Prevention of DVT/PE in high-risk patients (p375), eg post-op. Prevention of stroke, eg in chronic AF or prosthetic heart valves. Heparin 1 Low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH): Eg dalteparin, enoxaparin, tinzapa- rin. The preferred option in the prevention and initial treatment of venous thromboem- bolism. Inactivates factor Xa (but not thrombin). t½ is 2- to 4-fold longer than standard heparin, and response is more predictable: only needs to be given once or twice daily SC, and laboratory monitoring is usually not required. See BNF for doses. It accumulates in renal failure: decrease dose for prophylaxis, use UFH for therapeutic treatment 2 Unfractionated heparin (UFH): IV or SC. Binds antithrombin (an endogenous in- hibitor of coagulation), increasing its ability to inhibit thrombin, factor Xa, and IXa. Rapid onset and has a short t½. Monitor and adjust dose with APTT (p346). SE for both: Bleeding (eg at operative site, gastrointestinal, intracranial), heparin- induced thrombocytopenia (HIT), osteoporosis with long-term use. HIT and osteo- porosis are less common with LMWH than UFH. Beware hyperkalaemia. CI: Bleeding disorders, platelets <60≈109/L, previous HIT, peptic ulcer, cerebral haemorrhage, severe hypertension, neurosurgery. Warfarin Used
