Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


use. HIT and osteo- porosis are less common with LMWH than UFH. Beware hyperkalaemia. CI: Bleeding disorders, platelets <60≈109/L, previous HIT, peptic ulcer, cerebral haemorrhage, severe hypertension, neurosurgery. Warfarin Used PO OD as long-term anticoagulation. The therapeutic range is nar- row, varying with the condition being treated (see BOX ‘Warfarin guidelines and target levels for INR’)—and eff ects are refl ected in the INR. Warfarin inhibits the re- ductase enzyme responsible for regenerating the active form of vitamin K, producing a state analogous to vitamin K defi ciency. CI: Peptic ulcer, bleeding disorders, severe hypertension, pregnancy (teratogenic, see OHCS p640). Use with caution in elderly and those with past GI bleeds. In the UK, warfarin tablets are 0.5mg (white), 1mg (brown), 3mg (blue), or 5mg (pink). Interactions: p757. DOACS (Direct oral anticoagulants.) Rivaroxaban, apixaban (factor Xa inhibitors) and dabigatran (a direct thrombin inhibitor) do not require regular monitoring and dose adjustment; just a quarterly assessment and annual blood test. They off er an attractive alternative to warfarin (particularly where monitoring and maintaining a therapeutic INR is diffi cult). CI: severe renal/liver impairment; active bleeding; le- sion at risk of bleeding; clotting factors. Interactions: heparin, clopidogrel. Others Fondaparinux is a pentasaccharide Xa inhibitor and is used in acute coro- nary syndrome or in place of LMWH for prophylaxis. Beginning therapeutic anticoagulation (Follow local guidelines, and see BNF.) For treatment of venous thromboembolism, LMWH or UFH are typically used initially. When transitioning to warfarin, give heparin in combination (as early as day 1) and continue until INR is in target therapeutic range on 2 consecutive days (see BOX ‘War- farin dosage’). Start warfarin at 5–10mg given at 18.00 on days 1 and 2, then check INR on day 3 (it takes 48–72h for anticoagulant eff ect to develop). Adjust subsequent doses according to the INR (see table 8.5), which needs to be measured on alternate days until stable, then weekly or less often. When transitioning to a DOAC switch from heparin (ie do not coadminister DOAC and heparin). DOACS and warfarin may both be initiated as monotherapy in chronic AF (DOACS also in less extensive thromboembolism). Antidotes If UFH overdose: stop infusion. If there is bleeding, protamine sulphate counteracts UFH: discuss with a haematologist. Warfarin: see BOX ‘Warfarin dos- age’ and table 8.6. DOACS: challenging and evolving area (including monoclonal anti-drug antibodies eg idarucizumab for dabigatran)—discuss with haematologist. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 335500 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077
