Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


for a 70kg intracranial man) and 5–10mg vitamin K IV. Discuss with haematologist. haemorrhage) *Minor bleeding includes epistaxis. Vitamin K may take several hours to work and can cause prolonged resistance when restarting warfarin, so should be avoided if possible when long-term anti- coagulation is needed. Prothrombin complex concentrate contains a concentrate of factors II, VII, IX, and X and provides a more complete and rapid reversal of warfarin than FFP. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 335511 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH 352 Leukaemia and the on-call junior doctor Leukaemia divides into four main types depending on the cell line involved (table 8.7). Table 8.7 Principal subtypes of leukaemia Lymphoid Myeloid Acute Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) Acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) Chronic Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) Chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) These patients (esp. AML) fall ill suddenly and deteriorate fast, eg with: infection, ble eding (: platelets ± FFP), and hyperviscosity (p372). Take non-specifi c confusion/drowsiness or just ‘I feel a bit ill today’ seriously: do blood cultures, FBC, U&E, LFT, Ca2+, glucose, and clotting. Consider CNS bleeding—CT if in doubt. With any new patient, fi nd out the agreed aim of treatment: cure; prolong- ing disease-free survival; or palliation with minimal toxicity? Direct your eff orts accordingly; get help if lack of clarity here. Neutropenic regimen (For when neutrophil count ≤0.5 ≈ 109/L.)3 Close liaison with a microbiologist and haematologist is vital. Abide by infection control proce- dures! Use a risk-assessment tool (eg MASCC, see BOX). • Full barrier nursing in a side room if possible. Hand-washing is vital. • Avoid IM injections (danger of an infected haematoma). • Look for infection (mouth, axillae, perineum, IVI site). Take swabs. • Check: FBC, platelets, INR, U&E, LFT, LDH, CRP. Take cultures (blood ≈3—peripherally ± Hickman line; urine, sputum, stool if diarrhoea); CXR if clinically indicated. • Wash perineum after defecation. Swab moist skin with chlorhexidine. Avoid unnecessary rectal examinations. Oral hygiene (eg hydrogen peroxide mouth washes/2h) and Candida prophylaxis are important (p246). • Check vital signs 4-hrly. High-calorie diet; avoid foods with high risk of microbial contamination. Vases containing cut fl owers pose a Pseudomonas risk. Use of antibiotics in neutropenia Treat any known infection promptly. • If T° >38°C or T° >37.5°C on two occasions, >1h apart, or the patient is septic, start blind combination therapy according to local guidelines—eg piperacillin– tazobactam—p386 (+ vancomycin, p386, if Gram +ve organisms suspected or iso- lated, eg Hickman line
