Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


apart, or the patient is septic, start blind combination therapy according to local guidelines—eg piperacillin– tazobactam—p386 (+ vancomycin, p386, if Gram +ve organisms suspected or iso- lated, eg Hickman line sepsis). Continue until afebrile for 72h or 5d course, and until neutrop hils >0.5≈109/L. If fever persists despite antibiotics, think of CMV, fungi (eg Candida; Aspergillus, p408) and central line infection. • Consider treatment for Pneumocystis (p400, eg co-trimoxazole, though beware as this can worsen neutropenia). Remember TB. Other dangers •Tumour lysis syndrome: Results in K+,  urate, and AKI. See p529. • Hyperviscosity: (p372). If WCC is >100 ≈ 109/L WBC thrombi may form in brain, lung, and heart (leukostasis). Avoid transfusing before lowering WCC, eg with hydroxycarbamide or leukaph eresis, as viscosity rises (risk of leukostasis). • DIC: The release of procoagulants into the circulation causes widespread activa- tion of coagulation, consuming clotting factors and platelets and causing risk of bleeding. Fibrin strands fi ll small vessels, haemolysing passing RBCs. Fibrinolysis is also activated. Causes: Malignancy, sepsis, trauma, obstetric events. Signs: (fi g 8.44) Bruising, bleeding anywhere (eg venep uncture sites), renal failure. Tests: Platelets; PT; APTT; fi brinogen (correlates with severity); fi brin degra- dation products (D-dimers). Film: broken RBCS (schisto cytes). : Treat the cause. Replace platelets if <50≈109/L, cryoprecipitate to replace fi brinogen, FFP to re- place coagulation factors. Heparin is controversial. The use of all-transretinoic acid (ATRA) has signifi cantly reduced the risk of DIC in acute pro myelocytic leu- kaemia (the commonest leukaemia associated with DIC). • Preventing sepsis: Give fl uoroquinolone (eg ciprofl oxacin) before neutropenia gets serious. Granulocyte colony stimulators (G-CSF) can increase the production of WBCs (granulocytes) from bone marrow, but should not be given routinely in chemo- therapy. Herpes, pneumocystis, and CMV prophylaxis has a role. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 335522 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH MASCC score 353 The Multinational Association for Supportive Care in Cancer (MASCC) assess- ment tool can be used to predict the risk of serious complications in febrile neu- tropaenia, and can inform management decisions: if the total score is 21, risk of septic complications is low and admission may be avoided. • Solid tumour or lymphoma with no previous fungal infection 4 • Outpatient status at onset of fever (not needing admission) 3 • Age <60yrs 2 • Burden of illness: • Mild (or no) symptoms 5 • Moderate symptoms 3 • Severe symptoms 0 • No hypotension
