Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


fever (not needing admission) 3 • Age <60yrs 2 • Burden of illness: • Mild (or no) symptoms 5 • Moderate symptoms 3 • Severe symptoms 0 • No hypotension (systolic BP >90mmHg) 5 • No COPD 4 • No dehydration 3 Note the subjectivity of the ‘burden of illness’ and the omission of potentially vital variables such as CRP (which, should it fail to fall after starting antibiotics predicts treatment failure). As with all other scores, the MASCC score should therefore be interpreted within the context of the individual clinical picture. Fig 8.44 The appearance of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) on the sole. Courtesy of the Crookston Collection. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 335533 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH 354 Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) A malignancy of lymphoid cells, aff ecting B- or T-lymphocyte cell lineages, arresting maturation and promoting uncontrolled proliferation of immature blast cells, with marrow failure and tissue infi ltration. Ionizing radiation (eg X-rays) during preg- nancy, and Down’s syndrome are important associations. It is the commonest cancer of childhood, and is rare in adults. CNS involvement is common. Classifi cation Based on three systems: 1 Morphological:T he FAB system (French, American, British) divides ALL into three types (L1, L2, L3) by microscopic appearance. Provides limited information (fi gs 8.45–8.48). 2 Immunological: Surface markers are used to classify ALL into: • Precursor B-cell ALL • T-cell ALL • B-cell ALL. 3 Cytogenetic: Chromosomal analysis. Abnormalities are detected in up to 85%, which are often translocations.6 Useful for predicting prognosis, eg poor with Philadelphia chromosome (p358), and for detecting disease recurrence. Signs and symptoms (fi g 8.49) Due to: • Marrow failure: anaemia (Hb), infection (WCC), and bleeding (platelets). • Infi ltration: hepato- and splenomegaly, lymphadenopathy—superfi cial or medi- astinal, orchidomegaly, CNS involvement—eg cranial nerve palsies, meningism. Common infections: Especially chest, mouth, perianal, and skin. Bacterial septi- caemia, zoster, CMV, measles, candidiasis, Pneumocystis pneumonia (p400). Tests • Characteristic blast cells on blood fi lm and bone marrow. WCC usually high. • CXR and CT scan to look for mediastinal and abdominal lymphadenopathy. • Lumbar puncture should be performed to look for CNS involvement. Treatment Educate and motivate patient to promote engagement with therapy. • Support: Blood/platelet transfusion, IV fl uids, allopurinol (prevents tumour lysis syndrome). Insert a subcutaneous port system/Hickman line for IV access. • Infections: These are dangerous, due to neutropenia caused by the disease and treatment: give immediate IV antibiotics. Start
