Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Prof. Tangün and Dr Köroˇglu. Fig 8.49 Bilateral parotid infi ltration in ALL. (Enlarged salivary glands are also seen in mumps, HIV, bulimia, myxoedema, etc., p594.) __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 335555 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH 356 Acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) Neoplastic proliferation of blast cells derived from marrow myeloid elements. It progresses rapidly (death in ~2 months if untreated; ~20% 3yr survival after ). Incidence The commonest acute leukaemia of adults (1/10 000/yr; increases with age). AML can be a long-term complication of chemotherapy, eg for lymphoma. Also associated with myelodysplastic states (see BOX ‘Myelodysplastic syndromes’), ra- diation, and syndromes, eg Down’s. Morphological classifi cation There is much heterogeneity (see BOX ‘Heterogene- ity in AML’). Four types based on WHO histological classifi cation, cytogenetics, and molecular genetics: 1 AML with recurrent genetic abnormalities. 2 AML multilineage dysplasia (eg 2° to pre-existing myelodysplastic syndrome). 3 AML, therapy related (in those previously treated with cytotoxic drugs). 4 AML, other (not fi tting above-listed; further subclassifi ed as M0–M7 by maturation). Signs and symptoms • Marrow failure: Anaemia, infection, or bleeding. DIC oc- curs in acute promyelocytic leukaemia, a subtype of AML, where there is release of thromboplastin (p352). • Infi ltration: Hepatomegaly, splenomegaly, gum hypertro- phy (fi g 8.50), skin involvement. CNS involvement at presentation is rare. Diagnosis WCC is often , but can be normal or even low. Blast cells may be few in the peripheral blood, so diagnosis depends on bone marrow biopsy, immuno- phenotyping, and molecular methods. On biopsy, AML is diff erentiated from ALL by Auer rods (fi gs 8.51– 8.53). Cytogenetic analysis (eg type of mutation) guides treat- ment recommendations and prognosis. Complications • Predisposition to infection by both the disease and the treat- ment; may be bacterial, fungal, or viral—prophylaxis is given for each during ther- apy. Be alert to septicaemia (p352): common organisms present oddly and rare organisms can infect commonly (particularly the fungi Candida and Aspergillus). Be aware that AML itself causes fever. • Chemotherapy causes plasma urate levels (from tumour lysis)—so give allopurinol with chemotherapy, and keep well hydrat- ed with IV fl uids. • Leukostasis (p352) may occur if WCC. Treatment • Supportive care: As for ALL. Walking exercises can relieve fatigue. • Chemotherapy: Very intensive, resulting in long periods of marrow suppression with neutropenia + platelets . The main drugs used include daunorubicin and cyt arabine, with ~5 cycles given in 1-week blocks to get
