Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


resulting in long periods of marrow suppression with neutropenia + platelets . The main drugs used include daunorubicin and cyt arabine, with ~5 cycles given in 1-week blocks to get a remission (RAS muta- tions occur in ~20% of patients with AML and enhance sensitivity to cytarabine). • Bone marrow transplant (BMT): Pluripotent haematopoietic stem cells are col- lected from the marrow. Allogeneic transplants from HLA-matched donors (held on international databases) are indicated in refractory or relapsing disease. The idea is to destroy leuka emic cells and the immune system by, eg cyclophospha- mide + total body irradiation, then repopulate the marrow with donor cells in- fused IV. Ciclosporin ± methotrexate are used to reduce the eff ect of the new marrow attacking the patient’s body (GVHD). • Complications: GVHD (may help explain the curative eff ect of BMT); opportunis- tic infections; relapse of leukaemia; infertility. • Prognosis: Lower relapse rates ~60% long-term survivors, but signifi cant mor- tality of ~10%. Autologous BMT (where stem cells are taken from the patient themselves) is used in intermediate prognosis disease, although some studies suggest better survival rates with intensive chemotherapy regimens. • Autologous mobilized peripheral blood stem cell transplantation may off er faster haemopoietic recovery and less morbidity. • Supportive care, or lower-dose chemotherapy for disease control, may be more appropriate in elderly patients, where intensive therapies have poorer outcomes. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 335566 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH 357 Fig 8.50 Gum hypertrophy in AML. Courtesy of Prof. Christine Lawrence. Fig 8.51 Auer rods (crystals of coalesced gran- ules) found in AML myeloblast cells. Courtesy of Prof. Christine Lawrence. Fig 8.52 AML with monoblasts and myelo blasts on the peripheral blood fi lm. Fig 8.53 Marrow in AML: multiple monoblasts. Courtesy of Prof. Christine Lawrence. Courtesy of Prof. Christine Lawrence. Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS, myelodysplasia) These are a heterogeneous group of disorders that manifest as marrow failure with risk of life-threatening infection and bleeding (median survival varies from 6 months to 6 years according to disease type). Mostly primary, but can develop secondary to chemotherapy or radiotherapy. 30% transform to acute leukaemia. Tests: Pancytopenia (p364), with reticulocyte count. Marrow cellularity is usu- ally increased due to ineff ective haematopoiesis. Ring sideroblasts may also be seen in the marrow (fi g 8.9, p327). Treatment: • Multiple transfusions of red cells or platelets as needed. • Erythropoietin ± G-CSF (p352) may lower transfusion requirement. • Allogeneic stem cell
