Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


the marrow (fi g 8.9, p327). Treatment: • Multiple transfusions of red cells or platelets as needed. • Erythropoietin ± G-CSF (p352) may lower transfusion requirement. • Allogeneic stem cell transplantation is one option (curative but often inappro- priate owing to age-related comorbidities—most are >70yrs old). • Low-intensity treatments that are not curative but may improve quality of life in symptomatic disease include thalidomide analogues (eg lenalidomide) or hy- pomethylating agents (eg azacitidine and decitabine). Heterogeneity in AML Consider four types of heterogeneity as we move through medical history: mor- phologic, immunophenotypic, cytogenetic, and molecular. Genomic technologies enable an ever more detailed molecular analysis of AML and this can be used to in- form prognosis and guide risk stratifi cation. Epigenetic and other profi ling reveals more and more biomarkers, eg mutations in the genes encoding DNA (cytosine-5)- methyltransferase 3A (DNMT3A). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 335577 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH 358 Chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) CML is characterized by an uncontrolled clonal proliferation of myeloid cells (fi g 8.54). It accounts for 15% of leukaemias. It is a myeloproliferative disorder (p366) having features in common with these diseases, eg splenomegaly. It occurs most often between 40–60yrs, with a slight male predominance, and is rare in childhood. Philadelphia chromosome (Ph) Present in >80% of those with CML. It is a hybrid chromosome comprising reciprocal translocation between the long arm of chromo- some 9 and the long arm of chromosome 22—t(9;22)—forming a fusion gene BCR/ ABL on chromosome 22, which has tyrosine kinase activity. Those without Ph have a worse prognosis. Some patients have a masked translocation—cytogenetics do not show the Ph, but the rearrangement is detectable by molecular techniques. Symptoms Mostly chronic and insidious: weight, tiredness, fever, sweats. There may be features of gout (due to purine breakdown), bleeding (platelet dysfunction), and abdominal discomfort (splenic enlargement). ~30% are detected by chance. Signs Splenomegaly (>75%)—often massive. Hepatomegaly, anaemia, bruising (fi g 8.55). Tests WBC (often >100≈109/L) with whole spectrum of myeloid cells, ie neutro- phils, monocytes, basophils, eosinophils. Hb or , platelets variable. Urate, B12. Bone marrow hypercellular. Cytogenetic analysis of blood or bone marrow for Ph. Natural history Variable, median survival 5–6yrs. There are three phases: Chronic, lasting months or years of few, if any, symptoms. • Accelerated phase, with increas- ing symptoms, spleen size, and diffi culty in controlling counts. • Blast transforma- tion, with features of acute leukaemia ± death. Treatment See BOX.
