Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


symptoms. • Accelerated phase, with increas- ing symptoms, spleen size, and diffi culty in controlling counts. • Blast transforma- tion, with features of acute leukaemia ± death. Treatment See BOX. dF ii ffg e r8 e.5 n4 t stC aM gL e: sn ou fm de iffr o eu res n g tir aa tn iou nlo .cytic cells at Fig 8.55 Hepatosplenomegaly in CML. Courtesy of Prof. Christine Lawrence. Treating CML CML is the fi rst example of a cancer where knowledge of the genotype has led to a specifi cally targeted drug—imatinib, a BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase inhibitor. This has transformed therapy over the last 10yrs. Side eff ects are usually mild: nausea, cramps, oedema, rash, headache, arthralgia. May cause myelosuppression. More potent 2nd-generation BCR-ABL inhibitors: dasatinib, nilotinib, bosutinib, and ponatinib. Dasatinib and nilotinib allow more patients to achieve deeper, more rapid responses associated with improved outcomes, and dasatinib has been used in imatinib-resistant blast crises (though NICE says that it is often not cost-eff ective). Hydroxycarbamide is also used. Those with lymphoblastic trans formation may benefi t from treatment as for ALL. Treatment of myeloblastic transformation with chemotherapy rarely achieves lasting remission, and allo geneic transplantation off ers the best hope. Stem cell transplantation. Allogeneic transplantation from an HLA-matched sib- ling or unrelated donor off ers the only cure, but carries signifi cant morbidity and mortality. Guidelines suggest that this approach should be only rarely used 1st line in young patients (where mortality rates are lower). Other patients should be of- fered a BCR-ABL inhibitor. Patients are then reviewed annually to decide whether to continue, to off er combination therapy or stem cell transplantation. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 335588 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) 359 CLL is the commonest leukaemia (>25%; incidence: ~5/100 000/yr). :≈2:1. The hall- mark is progressive accumulation of a malignant clone of functionally incompetent B cells. Mutations, trisomies, and deletions (eg del17p13) infl uence risk (table 8.8). Table 8.8 Staging and survival in CLL Rai stage: 0 Lymphocytosis alone Median survival >13yrs I Lymphocytosis + lymphadenopathy 8yrs II Lymphocytosis + spleno- or hepatomegaly 5yrs III Lymphocytosis + anaemia (Hb <110g/L) 2yrs IV Lymphocytosis + platelets <100 ≈ 109/L 1yr Symptoms Often none, presenting as a surprise fi nding on a routine FBC. Patients may be anaemic or infection-prone, or have weight, sweats, anorexia if severe. Signs Enlarged, rubbery, non-tender nodes (fi g 8.56). Splenomegaly, hepatomegaly.
