Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


blood cells arise from an early pluripotent stem cell, which divides asymmetrically to produce another stem cell and a progenitor cell committed to a lineage (see fi g 8.66). Committed progenitors further diff erentiate into myeloid or lymphocyte lineages, releasing their progeny into the blood. Pancytopenia Reduction in all the major cell lines: red cells, white cells, and platelets. Causes are due to: 1 Marrow production: Aplastic anaemia (see BOX), infi ltration (eg acute leukaemia, myelodysplasia, myeloma, lymphoma, solid tumours, TB), megalo- blastic anaemia, myelofi brosis (p366). 2 Peripheral destruction: Hypersplenism. Agranulocytosis Implies that granulocytes (WBCs with neutrophil, basophil, or eosin ophil granules) have stopped being made, leaving the patient at risk of fatal infections. Many drugs can be the culprit: eg carbimazole, procainamide, sulfona- mides, gold, clozapine, dapsone. When starting drugs known to cause agranu- locytosis, warn patients to report any fever. Neutropenia (wcc 0.5≈109/L) may declare itself initially as a sore throat. Stop the drug, commence neutropenic regi- men and consider G-CSF if indicated (p352). Marrow support Red cells survive for ~120d, platelets for ~8d, and neutrophils for 1–2d, so early problems are mainly from neutropenia and thrombocytopenia. 1 Red cell transfusion: Transfusing 1U should raise Hb by ~10–15g/L (p348). Trans- fusion may drop the platelet count (you may need to give platelets before or after). 2 Platelets: Traumatic bleeds, purpura, and easy bruising occur if platelets <50≈109/L. Spontaneous bleeding may occur if platelets <20≈109/L, with intrac- ranial haemo rrhage rarely. Platelets are stored at room temperature (22°C; not in the fridge). In marrow transplant or if severely immunosuppressed, platelets may need irradiation before use to prevent transfusion-associated GVHD. Platelets must be ABO compatible. They are not used in ITP (p345). Indications: • Platelets <10≈109/L. • Haemorrhage (eg DIC, p352). • Before invasive procedures (eg biopsy, lumbar puncture) to increase count to >50≈109/L. 4U of platelets should raise the count to >40≈109/L in adults; check dose needed with lab. 3 Neutrophils: Use neutropenic regimen if the count <0.5≈109/L (p352). Bone marrow biopsy Gives diagnostic information where there are abnormalities in the peripheral blood; it is also an important staging test in the lymphoprolifera- tive disorders. Ideally take an aspirate and trephine usually from the posterior iliac crest (aspirates can be taken from the anterior iliac crest or sternum). The aspirate provides a fi lm which is examined by microscope. The trephine is a core of bone which allows
