Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


can be taken from the anterior iliac crest or sternum). The aspirate provides a fi lm which is examined by microscope. The trephine is a core of bone which allows assessment of bone marrow cellularity, architecture, and the presence of infi ltrative disease (eg neoplasia). Coagulation disorders may need to be corrected pre-biopsy. Apply pressure afterwards (lie on that side for 1–2h if platelets are low). Aplastic anaemia This is a rare (~5 cases per million/year) stem cell disorder in which bone marrow stops making cells, leading to pancytopenia. Presents with features of anaemia (Hb), infection (WCC), or bleeding (platelets). Causes: Most cases are autoim- mune, triggered by drugs, viruses (eg parvovirus, hepatitis), or irradiation. May also be inherited, eg Fanconi anaemia (p698). Tests: Bone marrow biopsy is diag- nostic. Treatment: Mainly supportive in asymptomatic patients. Transfuse blood products as required and initiate neutropenic regimen if count <0.5≈109/L (p352). The treatment of choice in young patients with severe disease is allogeneic mar- row transplantation from an HLA-matched sibling, which can be curative. Other- wise, immunosuppression with ciclosporin and antithymocyte globulin may be eff ective, although it is not curative in most. There is no clear role for G-CSF. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 336644 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH 365 Fig 8.66 Haematopoiesis and Sod’s law. When we contemplate a diagram like this (of seem- ingly galactic complexity) we, being doctors, think ‘What can go wrong?’ With a sinking feeling we realize that every arc is an opportunity for multiple disasters. Perhaps, using the Hammer of Los (p322) and our own ingenuity we might occasionally complete these pathways without Sod intervening (Sod’s law states that if something can go wrong, it will—here Sod’s tubercular breath is seen blowing the red cell line off course—TB is a famous cause of leukoerythroblastic anaemia). When we realize that every day each of us makes 175 billion red cells, 70 billion granulocytes, and 175 billion platelets we sense that Sod is smiling to himself with especial relish. Anything can go wrong. Everything can go wrong. This latter we call aplastic anaemia. Agranulocytosis is when the Southerly arcs go wrong; thrombocytopenia when the West-pointing arcs go wrong. To the East we have the lymphocytes and their B- and T-cell complexities. Anaemia lies in the North of this diagram. And as for bleeding—how could our predecessors bear to waste a single drop of this stuff on purpose? Our minds are reeling at
