Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


lies in the North of this diagram. And as for bleeding—how could our predecessors bear to waste a single drop of this stuff on purpose? Our minds are reeling at 175 billion red cells per day—but this is just when the system is idling. When we bleed, throughput can rise by an order of magnitude—if Sod is turning a blind eye are there suffi cient haematinics (eg iron, B12 , and folate) to allow maximum haemopoiesis? Figure ©Aria Rad. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 336655 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH 366 The myeloproliferative disorders Caused by clonal proliferation of haematopoietic myeloid stem cells in the bone mar- row. These cells retain the ability to diff erentiate into RBCS, WBCS, or platelets, causing an excess of one or more of these cell types (table 8.10). Table 8.10 Classifi cation of myeloproliferative disorders By proliferating cell type RBC  Polycythaemia vera (PRV) WBC  Chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML, p358) Platelets  Essential thrombocythaemia Fibroblasts  Myelofi brosis Polycythaemia Relative polycythaemia (plasma volume, normal RBC mass) may be acute (due to dehydration) or chronic (associated with obesity, HTN, and a high alcohol and tobacco intake). Absolute polycythaemia (RBC mass) is classi- cally measured by dilution of infused autologous radioactive chromium (51Cr) lab- elled RBCs. Causes are primary (polycythaemia vera) or secondary due to hypoxia (eg high altitudes, chronic lung disease, cyanotic congenital heart disease, heavy smoking) or inappropriately erythropoietin secretion (eg in renal carcinoma, hepatocellular carcinoma). Polycythaemia vera The malignant proliferation of a clone derived from one pluripotent stem cell. A mutation in JAK2 (JAK2 V617F) is present in >95%. The erythroid progenitor off spring are unusual in not needing erythropoietin to avoid apoptosis. There is excess proliferation of RBCs, WBCs, and platelets, leading to hy- perviscosity and thrombosis. Commoner if >60yrs old. Presentation: May be asymptomatic and detected on FBC, or present with vague symptoms due to hyperviscosity (p372): headaches, dizziness, tinnitus, visual dis- turbance. Itching after a hot bath, and erythromelalgia, a burning sensation in fi n- gers and toes, are characteristic. Signs: facial plethora and splenomegaly (in 60%). Gout may occur due to urate from RBC turnover. Features of arterial (cardiac, cer- ebral, peri pheral) or venous (DVT, cerebral, hepatic) thrombosis may be present. Investigations: • FBC: RCC, Hb, HCT, PCV, often also WBC and platelets. • B12. • Marrow shows hypercellularity with erythroid hyperplasia. • Cytogenetics as re- quired to diff erentiate from CML. •
