Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Other causes of marrow fi brosis: any myeloprolife rative disorder, lymphoma, second- ary carcinoma, TB, leukaemia, and irradiation. © Prof. Christine Lawrence. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 336677 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH 368 Myeloma: the chief plasma cell dyscrasia (PCD) PCDS are due to an abnormal proliferation of a single clone of plasma or lympho- plasmacytic cells leading to secretion of immunoglobulin (Ig) or an Ig fragment, causing the dysfunction of many organs (esp kidney).The Ig is seen as a monoclonal band, or paraprotein, on serum or urine electrophoresis (see later in topic). Classifi cation Based on Ig product—IgG in ~ ⅔; IgA in ~ ⅓; a very few are IgM or IgD. Other Ig levels are low (‘immunoparesis’, causing susceptibility to infection). In ~ ⅔, urine contains Bence Jones proteins, which are free Ig light chains of kappa (κ) or lambda (λ) type, fi ltered by the kidney. Incidence 5/100 000. Peak age: 70yrs. :  ≈ 1:1. Afro-Caribbeans:Caucasians ≈ 2:1. Clinical features • Osteolytic bone lesions cause backache, pathological fractures and vertebral collapse. Do serum electrophoresis on all >50 with new back pain. • Hypercalcaemia may be symptomatic (p676). Lesions are due to osteoclast acti- vation, from signalling by myeloma cells. • Anaemia, neutropenia, or thrombocytopenia may result from marrow infi ltra- tion by plasma cells, leading to symptoms of anaemia, infection, and bleeding. • Recurrent bacterial infections due to immunoparesis, and also because of neutro- penia due to the disease and from chemotherapy. • Renal impairment due to light chain deposition (p314 & p370) is seen in up to 20% at diagnosis. The light chains have a toxic and infl ammatory eff ect on the proximal tubule cells, but the damage is mainly caused by precipitation of light chains in the distal loop of Henle. Deposits may rarely be AL-amyloid (causing nephrotic syn- drome, see p370). Monoclonal immunoglobulins also disrupt glomeruli. Tests Bloods: FBC: normocytic normochromic anaemia. Film: rouleaux (p328). Per- sistently ESR (p372). Urea and creatinine, Ca2+ (in ~40%). Alk phos usually  unless healing fracture. Bone marrow biopsy: See fi gs 8.70–8.73. Screening test: Serum and/or urine electrophoresis. 2-microglobulin (prognostic). Imaging: X-rays: lytic ‘punched-out’ lesions, eg pepper-pot skull, vertebral collapse, fractures, or osteopo- rosis. CT or MRI may be useful to detect lesions not seen on XR. Diagnostic criteria: See BOX ‘Myeloma diagnosis’. Treatment Supportive: • Analgesia for bone pain (avoid NSAIDS due to risk of renal impairment). Give all
