Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Monoclonal gammopathy of uncertain signifi cance (MGUS) is common (3% >70yrs). There is a paraprotein in the serum but no myeloma, 1° amyloid, macro- globulinaemia, or lymphoma, with no bone lesions, no Bence Jones protein, and a low concentration of paraprotein, with <10% plasma cells in the marrow. Some develop myeloma or lymphoma. Refer to a haematologist (?for marrow biopsy). 5 Paraproteinaemia in lymphoma or leukaemia Eg seen in5 % of CLL. 6 Heavy chain disease Neoplastic cells produce free Ig heavy chains.  chain dis- ease is most important, causing malabsorption from infi ltration of bowel wall (im- munoproliferative small intestine disease—IPSID). It may progress to lymphoma. Amyloidosis This is a group of disorders characterized by extracellular deposits of a protein in abnormal fi brillar form, resistant to degradation. The following are the systemic forms of amyloidosis. Amyloid deposition is also a feature of Alzheimer’s disease, type 2 diabetes mellitus, and haemodialysis-related amyloidosis. AL amyloid (primary amyloidosis) Proliferation of plasma cell clone  Amyloi- dogenic monoclonal immunoglobulins  Fibrillar light chain protein deposition  Organ failure  Death. Associations: myeloma (15%); Waldenström’s, lymphoma. Organs involved: • Kidneys: glomerular lesions—proteinuria and nephrotic syndrome. • Heart: restrictive cardiomyopathy (looks ‘sparkling’ on echo), arrhythmias, angina. • Nerves: peripheral and autonomic neuropathy; carpal tunnel syndrome. • Gut: macroglossia (big tongue), malabsorption/weight, perforation, haemor- rhage, obstruction, and hepatomegaly. • Vascular: purpura, especially periorbital—a characteristic feature (fi g 8.74). : optimize nutrition; PO melphalan + prednisolone extends survival. High-dose IV melphalan with autologous stem cell transplantation may be better. AA amyloid (secondary amyloidosis) Here amyloid is derived from serum amyloid A, an acute phase protein, refl ecting chronic infl ammation in rheumatoid arthritis, UC/Crohn’s, familial Mediterranean fever, and chronic infections—TB, bronchiectasis, osteomyelitis. It aff ects kidneys, liver, and spleen (fi g 8.75), and may present with proteinuria, nephrotic syndrome, or hepatosplenomegaly. Macroglossia is not seen; cardiac involvement is rare (ventricular hypertrophy and murmurs). : manage the underlying condition optimally. Familial amyloidosis (Autosomal dominant, eg from mutations in transthyretin, a transport protein produced by the liver.) Usually causes a sensory or autonomic neuropathy ± renal or cardiac involvement. Liver transplant can cure. Diagnosis: Made with biopsy of aff ected tissue, and positive Congo Red staining with apple-green birefringence under polarized light microscopy. The rectum or subcutaneous fat are relatively non-invasive sites for biopsy and are +ve in 80%. Prognosis: Median survival is 1–2 years. Patients with
