Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


less aff ected by anaemia and simpler to automate. PV is aff ected by the concentration of large plasma proteins and  in the same conditions as the ESR—both PV and ESR  in chronic infl ammation and are less aff ected by acute changes (unlike CRP, p686). Hyperviscosity syndrome Symptoms Lethargy; confusion; cognition; CNS disturbance; chest pain; abdomi nal pain (and sometimes spontaneous GI or GU bleeding); faints; visual disturbance (eg vision, amaurosis fugax, retinopathy—eg engorged retinal veins, haemorrhages, exudates; and a blurred disc as seen in fi g 8.76). The visual symptoms are like ‘looking through a watery car windscreen’. Causes of high blood viscosity Very high red cell count (haematocrit >50, eg polycythaemia vera), white cell count (>100≈109/L, eg leukaemia), or plasma compo- nents—usually immunoglobulins, in myeloma or Waldenström’s macroglobulinaemia (p370, as IgM is larger and so  viscosity more than the same amount of IgG). Drugs: oral contraceptives, diuretics, IV IG, erythropoietin, chemotherapy, radio-contrast media. Treatment Urgent treatment is needed which depends on the cause. Venesec- tion is done in polycythaemia. Leukapheresis in leukaemias to remove white cells. Plasmapheresis in myeloma and Waldenström’s: blood is withdrawn via a plasma exchange machine, the supernatant plasma from this is discarded, and the RBCS returned to the patient after being resuspended in a suitable medium. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 337722 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH The spleen and splenectomy 373 The spleen plays a vital immunological role by acting as a reservoir for lympho- cytes, and in dealing with bacteraemias. Causes of splenomegaly: (See also p604.) Massive (enlarged to the RIF): CML, myelofi brosis, malaria (hyperreactive malarial spleno- megaly), visceral leishmaniasis, ‘tropical splenomegaly’ (idiopathic— Africa, south-east Asia), and Gaucher’s syndrome. Moderate: • Infection (eg EBV, endocarditis, TB, malaria, leishmaniasis, schistosomiasis). • Portal hyperten- sion (liver cirrhosis). • Haematological (haemolytic anaemia, leukaemia especial- ly CML, lymphoma). • Connective tissue disease (RA, SLE). • Others: sarcoidosis, primary antibody defi ciency (OHCS p198), idiopathic. When is a mass in the left upper quadrant a spleen: (Main diff erential: en- larged left kidney.) The spleen: • Is dull to percussion. • Enlarges towards the RIF. • Moves down on inspiration. • You may feel a medial notch. • ‘You can’t get above it’ (ie the top margin disappears under the ribs). Tests: Image the spleen with abdominal USS or CT. Hunt for the cause of en- largement: look for lymphadenopathy and liver disease, eg: FBC, ESR, LFT ±
