Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


under the ribs). Tests: Image the spleen with abdominal USS or CT. Hunt for the cause of en- largement: look for lymphadenopathy and liver disease, eg: FBC, ESR, LFT ± liver, marrow, or lymph node biopsy. Complications: Symptoms of anaemia, infection, or bleeding can occur as a re- sult of hypersplenism: cells become trapped in the spleen’s reticuloendothelial system causing pancytopenia. Splenectomy may be required if severe. Splenectomy: Main indications: splenic trauma, hypersplenism, autoimmune haemolysis: in ITP (p345), warm autoimmune haemolytic anaemia (p338), or congenital haemolytic anaemias. Mobilize early post-splenectomy as transient platelets predisposes to thrombi. A characteristic blood fi lm is seen following splenectomy, with Howell–Jolly bodies, Pappenheimer bodies, and target cells (see p328). The main problem post-splenectomy is lifelong increased risk from infec- tion. The spleen contains macrophages which fi lter and phagocytose bacteria. Post-splenectomy infection is caused most commonly by encapsulated organ- isms: Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus infl uenzae, and Neisseria men- ingitidis. Reduce this risk by giving: 1 Immunizations: • Pneumococcal vaccine (p167), at least 2 weeks pre-op to ensure good re- sponse, or as soon as possible after emergency splenectomy, eg after trau- ma. Re-immunize every 5–10yrs. Avoid in pregnancy. • Haemophilus infl uenzae type b vaccine (Hib, see p391). • Meningococcal vaccination course, including Men B, Men C, and Men ACWY. • Annual infl uenza vaccine (p396). 2 Life-long prophylactic oral antibiotics: phenoxymethylpenicillin (penicillin V) or erythromycin if penicillin allergic. 3 Pendants, bracelets, or patient-held cards to alert medical staff . 4 Advice to seek urgent medical attention if any signs of infection: will require admission for broad-spectrum antibiotics if infection develops. 5 If travelling abroad, warn of risk of severe malaria and advise meticulous prophylaxis, with nets, repellent, and medication. The advice given here also applies to hyposplenic patients, eg in sickle-cell anae- mia or coeliac disease. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 337733 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH 374 Thrombophilia Thrombophilia is an inherited or acquired coagulopathy that predisposes to throm- bosis, usually venous: DVT or PE (venous thromboembolism: VTE). Special precautions are needed when there is an additional risk factor for thrombosis, eg surgery, preg- nancy, or enforced rest (see BOX for other risk factors). Only ~50% of patients with thrombosis and a +ve family history have an identifi able thrombophilia on routine tests: others may have abnormalities that are as yet unidentifi ed. Inherited • Activated protein c (APC) resistance/factor V Leiden: Chief cause of in- herited thrombophilia.
