Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


able thrombophilia on routine tests: others may have abnormalities that are as yet unidentifi ed. Inherited • Activated protein c (APC) resistance/factor V Leiden: Chief cause of in- herited thrombophilia. Present in ~5% of the population, although most will not de- velop thrombosis. Usually associated with a single point mutation in factor V (factor V Leiden), so that this clotting factor is not broken down by APC. Risk of DVT or PE is raised 5-fold if heterozygous for the mutation (50-fold if homozygous). Thrombotic risk is increased in pregnancy and those on oestrogens (OHCS p33, p257 & p303). • Prothrombin gene mutation: Causes high prothrombin levels and thrombosis due to down-regulation of fi brinolysis, by thrombin-activated fi brinolysis inhibitor. • Protein C & S defi ciency: These vitamin K-dependent factors act together to cleave and so neutralize factors V & VIII. Heterozygotes defi cient for either protein risk thrombosis. Skin necrosis also occurs (esp. if on warfarin). Homozygous defi - ciency for either protein causes neonatal purpura fulminans—fatal, if untreated. • Antithrombin defi ciency: Antithrombin is a co-factor of heparin, and inhibits thrombin. Less common, aff ects 1:500. Heterozygotes’ thrombotic risk is greater than protein C or S defi ciency by ~4-fold. Homozygosity is incompatible with life. Acquired Causes: • Antiphospholipid syndrome (APL: p554)—serum antiphospho- lipid antibodies (lupus anticoagulant ± anticardiolipin antibody) predispose to ve- nous and arterial thrombosis, thrombocytopenia, and recurrent fetal loss. In most it is a primary disease, but it is also seen in SLE. • Oral contraceptive pills/HRT (relative risk 2–4; related to both oestrogen and progesterone content/type). • Any cause of thrombocytosis or polycythaemia may also cause thrombosis (p366). Which tests? Ask the lab. Do FBC, fi lm, clotting (PT, thrombin time, APTT, fi brinogen) ± APC resistance test, lupus anticoagulant and anticardiolipin antibodies, and assays for antithrombin and proteins C & S defi ciency (± DNA analysis by PCR for the factor V Leiden mutation if APC resistance test is +ve, and for prothrombin gene mutation). These tests should ideally be done when the patient is well, not pregnant, and off anticoagulation for 1 month. Who? Test those with: • arterial thrombosis or MI at <50yrs old (eg for APL) • unprovoked VTE (ie at <40yrs with no risk factors) • VTE with oral contraceptives/ pregnancy • unexplained recurrent VTE • unusual site, eg mesenteric or portal vein thrombosis • recurrent fetal loss (≥3)
