Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


at <40yrs with no risk factors) • VTE with oral contraceptives/ pregnancy • unexplained recurrent VTE • unusual site, eg mesenteric or portal vein thrombosis • recurrent fetal loss (≥3) • neonatal thrombosis. Who not? Those already on lifelong anticoagulation, 1st-degree relatives of peo- ple with a history of DVT/PE or thrombophilia except in special circumstances. There is often no benefi t to testing (ie no change to management), it is expensive and may cause signifi cant worry to patients: be sparing in requesting these tests. Treatment Anticoagulate acute thrombosis (p350). If recurrence occurs with no other risk factors, consider lifelong anticoagulation. Recurrence whilst on treat- ment should be treated by increasing treatment intensity (eg target INR to 3–4). In antithrombin defi ciency, high doses of heparin may be needed; liaise with a hae- matologist. In protein C or S defi ciency, monitor treatment closely as skin necrosis may occur with warfarin. Prevention Lifelong anticoagulation is not needed in absence of VTE, but advise of risk with the oral contraceptive pill or HRT, and counsel as regards to the best form of contraception. Warn about other risk factors for VTE. Prophylaxis may be needed in pregnancy, eg in antiphospholipid syndrome (get expert help: aspirin and, sometimes, prophylactic heparin are used as warfarin is teratogenic, see OHCS p33). Prophylactic SC heparin may also be indicated in high-risk situations, eg pre- surgery. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 337744 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH Other risk factors for thrombosis 375 Arterial: Venous: • Smoking • Surgery • Hypertension • Trauma • Hyperlipidaemia • Immobility • Diabetes mellitus. • Pregnancy, oral contraceptive pill, HRT • Age • Obesity • Varicose veins • Other conditions: heart failure, malignancy, infl amma tory bowel disease, nephrotic syndrome, paroxys mal nocturnal haemoglobinuria (p338). For thrombophilia in pregnancy, see OHCS p32; for anticoagulant use in pregnancy and thromboprophylaxis, see OHCS p33. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 337755 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 ygolotameaH 376 Immunosuppressive drugs As well as being used in leukaemias and cancers, immunosuppression is required in organ and marrow transplants, and plays a role in the treatment of many diseases: rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, autoimmune hepatitis, asthma, SLE, vasculitis, and IBD, to name a few. Prednisolone Steroids can be life-saving, but bear in mind: • Long-term steroids (>3 weeks, or repeated courses) must not be stopped sud- dently. Risk of Addisonian crisis due to adrenal insuffi ciency, see p836. Plan a gradual taper over weeks (with the advice of an
