Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


repeated courses) must not be stopped sud- dently. Risk of Addisonian crisis due to adrenal insuffi ciency, see p836. Plan a gradual taper over weeks (with the advice of an endocrinologist if needed). • Certain conditions may be made worse by steroids, eg TB, hypertension, chicken- pox, osteoporosis, diabetes: here careful monitoring is needed. • Growth retardation may occur in young patients, and the elderly frequently get more SE from treatment. • Interactions: effi cacy is reduced by anti-epileptics (see later in topic) and ri- fampicin. • Caution in pregnancy (may cause fetal growth retardation). See BNF for use in breastfeeding. Side effects: Multiple and serious (see table 8.11): minimize these by using the lowest dose possible for the shortest period of time. Prescribe calcium and vi- tamin D supplements to reduce risk of osteoporosis (p682) or consider bisphos- phonates. Before starting long-term treatment, explain clearly the potential SE to patients and ensure they are aware of the following: • Do not stop steroids suddenly (p836). • Consult a doctor if unwell;  steroid dose (eg if requiring antibiotics or surgery). • Carry a steroid card stating dose taken, and the indication. • Avoid over-the-counter drugs, eg NSAIDS: aspirin and ibuprofen (risk of DU). • Exercise and smoking cessation help to prevent osteoporosis. Azathioprine SE: Diarrhoea, abdominal pain, marrow suppression (anaemia, lym- phopenia), nephritis, pancreatitis, transaminitis. Interactions: Mercaptopurine and azathioprine (which is metabolized to mercaptopurine) are metabolized by xanthine oxidase (XO). So toxicity results if full dose azathioprine co-administered with XO inhibitors (eg allopurinol). Monitoring: Local guidelines should be in place to guide; typically weekly FBC, U&E, creatine, LFT during initation then 1–3-monthly once stable. Ciclosporin, tacrolimus Calcineurin inhibitors with important roles in reducing rejection in organ and marrow transplant. The main SE is dose-related nephrotox- icity: check blood levels. • Other SE: gum hyperplasia (ciclosporin), tremor, BP (stop if ), oedema, paraesthe- siae, confusion, seizures, hepatotoxicity, lymphoma, skin cancer—avoid sunbathing. • Monitor U&E and creatinine every 2 weeks for the fi rst 3 months, then monthly if dose >2.5mg/kg/d (every 2 months if less than this). Reduce the dose if creati- nine rises by >30% on two measurements even if the creatinine is still in normal range. Stop if the abnormality persists. Also monitor LFT. • Interactions are legion: potentiated by: ketoconazole, diltiazem, verapamil, the Pill, erythromycin, grapefruit juice. Effi cacy is reduced by: barbiturates, carbamaz epine, phenytoin, rifampicin.
