Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


just unspeak- ably horrible and irremediable to me and I stare at them with angry and almost blighted eyes.’ Henry James, 1915, describing the death of Rupert Brooke from septicaemia. But this is a mistake. Kill off micro-organisms and the whole show fi zzles out. Micro-organisms gave us the DNA and organelles needed for reading and digesting this page. Even killing a single pathogen might be a mistake: Sod’s Law will prob- ably ensure that something worse will come to inhabit the vacated ecospace. Prod one part of the system and events ripple out in an unending stream of unintended consequences, played out under the stars, which themselves are evolving, and which donate and receive our primordial elements. Can we win against infectious diseases? No. But winning or losing is the wrong image: infectious diseases have made us who we are. All we can do is live with them. To help us do this in ways that are not too destructive we need robust public health surveillance, sound vector-control policies, political will, quarantine laws, openness, and cooperation. Most importantly, do not underestimate the importance of maintaining our infectious cohabitants in their apparent subor- dinate position. The speed and capacity for learning by ribonucleic malware and single-celled organisms is amazing. So do not inadvertently teach them. Preserve your precious warfare tactics. Expose them to antibiotic therapies only in a stand-off situation from which they cannot return to fi ght again. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 337799 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 sesaesid suoitcefnI 380 Infectious disease: an overview It is not possible for any ID chapter to be constructed so that it has the right balance throughout the world. Many of our readers come from communities where malaria is the primary diff erential, and AIDS-related deaths are common. In contrast, it is chest, GU, and ENT infections which predominate in the UK; and AIDS is considered only where there is failure of either the diagnosis or treatment of HIV, which are universally available and free at the point of care. Many of the diseases in this chapter cause multisystem pathology. For these infections, it may be helpful to classify by pathogen (table 9.1). However, infectious agents do not walk in the door and introduce themselves. Detective work may be necessary based on geography; or exposure: to vectors, animals, and con- taminated water/food. And so other pages in this chapter have that as their (helpful) premise. When infection is
