Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Bone and joint Osteomyelitis OHCS p696 Septic arthritis p544 ENT Pharyngitis, laryngitis, otitis media OHCS p564 Eye Tropical eye disease pp438–9 The management of infectious disease includes prevention whenever possible. Tracing the source of disease and contacts are essential in the management of outbreaks. Notifi cation to your local health protection team (see notifi able-diseases-and-causative-organisms-how-to-report) is a statutory duty for the following conditions (only clinical suspicion is required, accuracy of diagnosis is secondary): • Acute encephalitis • HUS • Rubella • Acute infectious hepatitis • Infectious dysentery • SARS • Acute meningitis • Invasive group A strep • Scarlet fever • Acute poliomyelitis • Legionnaire’s disease • Small pox • Anthrax • Leprosy • Tetanus • Botulism • Malaria • Tuberculosis • Brucellosis • Measles • Typhus • Cholera • Meningococcal sepsis • Viral haemorrhagic fever • Diphtheria • Mumps • Whooping cough • Enteric fever • Plague • Yellow fever. • Food poisoning • Rabies Infectious disease resources The Hillis plot (fi g 9.2, p379) tells us that ID chapters will always fail to be exhaustive. We therefore direct you to the following excellent resources: • Public Health England, • World Health Organization (WHO), • Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 338811 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 sesaesid suoitcefnI 382 Bacterial infection: an overview Humans and bacteria are symbiotes, with each of us host to ten times as many bacterial cells as our own human cells. Our gut, skin, and mucosal linings are covered with bacteria. We rely on this for nutrition, functioning vitamin K, anti-infl ammatory eff ects, and immune system regulation. Bacterial disease results from a breach of the measures that limit bacteria to their ‘normal’ roles: skin commensals moved into the bloodstream by a cannula, an- tibiotics altering the commensal microfl ora, immune system evasion or dysfunction allowing organisms to stray beyond their usual boundaries, toxin production. When treating infections we should therefore remember to look beyond the off ending or- ganism and consider what factors may have aided pathogenesis: malnutrition, ‘bar- rier’ breach by cancer/plastic, immunosuppression. See ‘Sepsis’, p792. Bacterial glossary Bacteria: Prokaryotic micro-organism without a membrane-bound nucleus. Classifi cation of bacteria: By microscopy and culture of infected samples. Informs antibiotic choice. Includes: • Gram stain: a staining technique. Bacteria with thick, exposed peptidoglycan layers will stain ‘Gram positive’ (purple/blue). Bacteria with a protected peptidoglycan layer will counterstain pink/red and are ‘Gram negative’ (fi g 9.3). •
