Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


staining technique. Bacteria with thick, exposed peptidoglycan layers will stain ‘Gram positive’ (purple/blue). Bacteria with a protected peptidoglycan layer will counterstain pink/red and are ‘Gram negative’ (fi g 9.3). • Shape: cocci = round; bacilli = rod-shaped; spiro chaete = spiral. • Aerobes/anaerobes: some bacteria cannot sur- vive without oxygen (obligate aerobes), whilst others cannot grow in its presence (obligate an- aerobes). Many more can survive in either en- vironment (facultative anaerobes). Some types of infection are more likely to involve aerobic or anaerobic bacteria, eg GI infections are typi-Fig 9.3 (a) Gram-positive versus cally anaerobic. (b) Gram-negative cell membranes. Bacteraemia: Bacteria circulating in the Reprinted by permission from Macmil- bloodstream. lan Publishers Ltd: Nature Reviews Bacteriocidal: Kills bacteria both in and out Microbiology, Cabeen et al., 3(8), 601–610, of the replication cycle. copyright 2005. Bacteriostatic: Stops replication without killing existing bacteria. Capsulate bacteria: Bacteria with a thick outer capsule, eg Haemophilus infl uen- zae, Neisseria meningitidis, and Streptococcus pneumoniae. These are destroyed in the spleen. Following splenectomy (or splenic infarction, eg sickle cell anaemia) there is an increased risk of infection by capsulate bacteria and prophylactic vac- cination should be off ered (p407). Commensal: An organism that lives in/on a host without causing harm. Endotoxin: A lipopolysaccharide complex found on the outer membrane of Gram- negative bacteria. Can elicit an infl ammatory response. Activates complement via the alternative pathway. Enterotoxin: Exotoxin that targets the gut, eg Clostridium diffi cile toxin (p411). Exotoxin: Toxins secreted by bacteria acting at a site distant from bacterial growth. Production of an exotoxin can determine virulence, eg botulinum, tetanus, diphtheria, shiga toxins. Flagella: A tail-like appendage that moves to propel the bacterium, eg Helico- bacter pylori. Nosocomial: Acquired in a hospital/healthcare setting (pp410–1). Obligate intracellular: Bacteria that can only survive in host cells  induce a cell- mediated immune response and will not grow on standard culture media. Ziehl–Neelsen stain: Mycolic acid in the cell wall of mycobacteria resists Gram staining but will appear red with acid-fast techniques (= acid-fast stain). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 338822 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 sesaesid suoitcefnI Antibiotics: action and resistance 383 The antibiotic revolution began in 1928 when a extraordinary series of fortuitous events (including a cancelled holiday and an unpredictable British summer) led to Alexander Fleming’s observation that a contaminating Penicillium colony caused lysis of staphylococci. Mass production and the ‘golden age’ of antibiotics fol- lowed, with the introduction of a variety
