Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


led to Alexander Fleming’s observation that a contaminating Penicillium colony caused lysis of staphylococci. Mass production and the ‘golden age’ of antibiotics fol- lowed, with the introduction of a variety of drugs selectively toxic to bacterial, but not mammalian cells. This is achieved by: • utilizing a target unique to bacteria, eg cell wall • selectively targeting bacterial-specifi c components, eg enzymes, ribosomes • preventing transport of the drug into human cells, eg metronidazole can only be transported into anaerobic bacteria. The mechanism of action of diff erent classes of antibiotic is shown in fi g 9.4. Folate synthesis Nucleic acid Sulfamethoxazole synthesis Cell wall synthesis Trimethoprim DNA synthesis β–lactams Fluoroquinolones Penicillins Metronidazole Cephalosporins Carbapenems THF A RNA polymerase DHF A Rifamycins PABA Glycopeptides 50S 50S subunit Vancomycin 30S Macrolides Teicoplanin Clindamycin Linezolid Chloramphenicol Polymyxins 30S subunit Fusidic acid Colistin Aminoglycosides Tetracyclines Protein synthesis Fig 9.4 Classes of antibiotics and their bacterial cell targets. This spectrum of available antibiotics revolutionized clinical practice and led to the declaration: ‘It is time to close the book on infectious diseases, and declare the war against pestilence won’ (attributed in urban legend to Dr. William H Stewart, US Surgeon General, 1965–1969). Such confi dence failed to consider that the capacity for a prokaryotic micro-organism to develop resistance far outstrips the human capacity to develop new antibiotic drugs. Antibiotic resistance can be: • Intrinsic: due to inherent structural or functional characteristics, eg vancomycin cannot cross the outer membrane of Gram-negative organisms. • Acquired: bacteria have been evolving to resist antibacterial agents for billions of years through mutation and/or the transfer of resistance properties. This evo- lutionary phenomenon is accelerated by selection pressure from antibiotic use (including agriculture, aquaculture, and horticulture) which provides a competi- tive advantage for mutated, resistant strains. Resistance has emerged for all known antibiotics causing morbidity, mortality, and a huge cost burden worldwide.1 Misadventure is evident. Quinolones are syn- thetic, resistance cannot be acquired in nature, and yet it is epidemic. Which brings us back to Alexander Fleming who, within 2 years of the mass- production of his ‘miracle-mould’, gave this sage warning in his Nobel lecture of 1945: ‘Mr X has a sore throat. He buys some penicillin and gives himself, not enough to kill the streptococci, but enough to educate them to resist penicillin. He then infects his wife. Mrs X gets pneumonia and is treated with penicillin. As the
