Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


not enough to kill the streptococci, but enough to educate them to resist penicillin. He then infects his wife. Mrs X gets pneumonia and is treated with penicillin. As the streptococci are now resistant to penicillin the treatment fails. Mrs X dies. Who is primarily responsible for Mrs X’s death? Why Mr X, whose negligent use of penicillin changed the nature of the microbe.’ __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 338833 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 sesaesid suoitcefnI 384 Antibiotics A guide to antibiotic prescribing  Give antibiotics immediately in patients with a systemic infl ammatory response to infection. See ‘Sepsis’, p792. Start smart: 1 Do not prescribe2 antibiotics in the absence of clinical evidence of bacterial infec- tion, or for a self-limiting condition. Take time to discuss: • why an antibiotic is not the best option • alternative options, eg symptomatic treatment, delayed prescribing • the views and expectations of the patient • safety-netting advice: what the patient should do if their condition deteriorates. 2 Take microbiological samples before prescribing,1 especially for: • hospital in-patients: review your prescription as soon as MC&S result is available • recurrent or persistent infection • non-severe infection: consider if your prescription can wait for MC&S results. 3 Follow local guidelines fi rst: best practice is informed by local epidemiology and sensitivities. 4 Consider benefi t and harm for each individual patient: • Allergies: clarify the patient’s reaction—the true incidence of penicillin allergy in patients who report that they are allergic is <10%. In those with a confi rmed penicillin allergy, cross-reactivity with 3rd-generation cephalosporins and car- bapenems is possible but rare (<1%). • Dose adjust for renal function and weight: use ideal body weight in extremes of BMI (or ideal weight plus a % of excess weight—see local guidelines). • Check for medication interactions. • In pregnancy and lactation, see p17. 5 Prescribe the shortest eff ective course. Most antibiotics have good oral avail- ability. Use IV antibiotics only if in line with local or national (sepsis) guidelines. Then focus: Review the clinical diagnosis and continuing need for antibiotics at 48h for all in- patients and all patients prescribed IV antibiotics: • Stop antibiotics if there is no evidence of infection. • Switch from IV to oral whenever possible. • Change to a narrower spectrum antibiotic whenever possible. • Continue regular clinical review whilst antibiotics are prescribed. Antimicrobial stewardship In England between 2010 and 2014, antibiotic prescribing rose by 4% in
