Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


to a narrower spectrum antibiotic whenever possible. • Continue regular clinical review whilst antibiotics are prescribed. Antimicrobial stewardship In England between 2010 and 2014, antibiotic prescribing rose by 4% in general practice, 12% in hospitals, and 32% in other healthcare settings; E. coli resistance to ciprofl oxacin increased by 18%, to cephalosporins by 28%, and to gentamicin by 27%. 25 000 people in Europe die every year from antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Each year ~500 000 develop drug-resistant TB. Cost is the only barrier to buying carbapenems over-the-counter in Egypt, India, and Pakistan. ‘This will be a post-antibiotic era. In terms of new replacement antibiotics, the pipeline is virtually dry, especially for Gram negative bacteria. The cupboard is nearly bare. Prospects for turning this situation around look dim.’ Dr M Chan, Director-General of WHO, March 2012. Antimicrobial stewardship2 is necessary in all healthcare settings: • monitoring, evaluation, and feedback on antimicrobial prescribing, bench- marked against up-to-date local and national guidelines • evaluation of high/low levels of prescribing and prescribing outside of guidelines • review of patient safety events: avoidable infection, drug reactions, complica- tions of antibiotic therapy, eg MRSA (p388), C. diffi cile (p259, p411) • education and decision support systems for all antibiotic prescribers • antibiotic pack sizes that correspond to appropriate course lengths • regular review of all antimicrobial policy, treatment, and prophylaxis guidelines. 1 Clinical diagnosis of low-severity community-acquired pneumonia is an exception, see also UTI p296. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 338844 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 sesaesid suoitcefnI Inhibitors of cell wall synthesis 385 See fi g 9.4. The bacterial cell wall is unique in nature and therefore acts as a selective target for antibiotics. Antibiotics which act on the cell wall include: • -lactam antibiotics • others: glycopeptides, polymyxins. -lactams: penicillins, cephalosporins, carbapenems, monobactam Contain a -lactam ring which inhibits the formation of peptidoglycan cross-links in the bacterial cell wall. Resistance occurs when the bacteria (eg staphylococci) produce a -lactamase enzyme. Penicillins: See table 9.3. Include natural penicillins (penicillin G and V) and synthetic penicillins which are chemically modifi ed to extend their spectrum of activity, eg amoxicillin, piperacillin. In an attempt to overcome -lactamase resistance, penicillins have been combined with -lactamase inhibitors to create -lactam--lactamase inhibitor combinations eg co-amoxiclav (amoxicillin+clavulanic acid), Tazocin® (piperacillin+tazobactam). Staphylococcal resistance is conventionally defi ned by stability to meticillin, an acid-labile and IV-only equivalent of fl ucloxacillin (see MRSA p388). Cephalosporins: See table 9.4. Contain a -lactam ring
