Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


• Tuberculous lymphadenitis: (Usually) painless enlargement of cervical or su- praclavicular lymph nodes. Axillary and inguinal node involvement less common. Coexisting systemic symptoms in 40–50%. Node is typically fi rm to touch and not acutely infl amed (‘cold abscess’). Skin can adhere to the underlying mass with risk of rupture and sinus formation. Can occur with or without pulmonary disease. Investigate with fi ne-needle aspiration, AFB staining, and culture (p394). • Gastrointestinal TB: Most disease is ileocaecal. Causes colicky abdominal pain and vomiting. Bowel obstruction can occur due to bowel wall thickening, stric- ture formation, or infl ammatory adhesions. Biopsy is required for diagnosis. Ca- seation necrosis and an absence of transmural cracks/fi ssures distinguish from Crohn’s disease. • Spinal TB: Local pain and bony tenderness for weeks–months. Slow, insidious progression. May not present until deformity or neurological symptoms. Look for bony destruction, vertebral collapse, and soft tissue abscess (see Pott’s ver- tebra p708). • Miliary TB: Haematogenous dissemi- nation leads to the formation of dis- crete foci (~2mm) of granulomatous tissue throughout the lung (‘millet’ seed appearance). CXR: fi g 9.9. Dis- semination is throughout the body with meningeal involvement in ~25%. Sputum may be negative for AFB as spread is haematogenous. Have a low threshold for LP. Untreated mortality is assumed to be close to 100%. Do not delay treatment while test results are pending. • CNS TB: Haematogenous spread lead- ing to foci of infection in brain and Fig 9.9 Miliary TB (nodular opacities). spinal cord. Foci can enlarge to form ©Dr Vijay Sadasivam, Radiologist, SKS Hosp, Salem, tuberculomas. Foci rupture leads to Tamil Nadu, India. meningitis. Risk with immune suppression, HIV, aged <3y. Headache, meningism, confusion, seizures, focal neurological defi cit, and systemic symptoms. Needs LP and examination of CSF (leucocytosis, raised protein, CSF: plasma glucose <50%, AFB stain, PCR and culture). Look for TB elsewhere (CXR, etc), test for HIV. CT/ MRI may show hydrocephalus, basal exudates. Tuberculomas are ring-enhancing. All rapid diagnostic tests (p394) have sensitivity, so treat on suspicion. • Genitourinary TB: Symptoms may be chronic, intermittent, or silent. Include dysuria, freque ncy, loin pain, haematuria, sterile pyuria (see p296). Granuloma may cause fi brosis, strictures, infertility, and genital ulceration. • Cardiac TB: Usually involves the pericardium: pericarditis, pericardial eff usion, and/or constrictive pericarditis (p154). Check chest imaging for other TB pathol- ogy, eg pulmonary disease, mediastinal lymph nodes. Pericardiectomy may be indicated
