Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


diagnosis (<8hrs). Can also detect drug resistance (see p395). Extra-pulmonary TB: • Investigate for coexisting pulmonary disease. • Obtain material from aspiration or biopsy (lymph node, pleura, bone, synovium, GI/GU tract) to enable AFB staining, histological examination (caseating granu- loma) and/or culture. • NAAT can be carried out on any sterile body fl uid, eg CSF, pericardial fl uid. Offer HIV test for all. Treatment Antibiotics used in the treatment3 of TB are detailed in table 9.10. Table 9.10 Antibiotics used in the treatment of TB Standard course for Antibiotic Notes active disease Rifampicin 2 months intensive Enzyme inducer: care with warfarin, calcineurin 4 months continuation inhibitors, oestrogens, phenytoin; body secre- tions coloured orange-red (includes contact lens staining); altered liver function. Isoniazid 2 months intensive Inhibits formation of active pyridoxine (Vit B6) 4 months continuation which causes a peripheral neuropathy (risk with DM, CKD, HIV, malnutrition)  give with prophylactic pyridoxine; hepatitis. Pyrazinamide 2 months intensive Idiosyncratic hepatotoxicity, dose if eGFR<30. Ethambutol 2 months intensive Colour blindness, visual acuity, optic neuritis. Check visual acuity at start of treatment, moni- tor for symptoms. Monthly visual check if treat- ment > 2 months. Monitor levels if eGFR<30. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 339944 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 sesaesid suoitcefnI Latent TB 395 Balance the risk of development of active disease with the possible side-eff ects of treatment. Consider treatment in all at risk of active disease: HIV, transplantation, chemotherapy, biological agents eg anti-TNF (see p265), diabetes, CKD including di- alysis, silicosis, bariatric surgery, and recent close contact with pulmonary/laryngeal TB. Off er HIV, hepatitis B and C testing prior to treatment. Treat with 3 months of isoniazid (with pyridoxine) and rifampicin OR 6 months of isoniazid (with pyridoxine). If concerns about hepatotoxicity then 3 months of isoniazid and rifampicin may be preferred. In severe liver disease, seek specialist advice. If interactions with rifamy- cins are a concern (eg HIV, transplant) then 6 months of isoniazid may be preferred. Active TB All forms of active TB are statutorily notifi able in UK. This includes both clinical and culture diagnoses. Notifi cation is via your local public health protection team (www. gov.uk/health-protection-team).Treatment is given under the care of a specialist TB clini- cian/service according to table 9.10. Exceptions include: • active CNS disease (including spinal cord involvement): continuation phase of treat- ment is extended from 4 to 10 months • CNS and pericardial disease: use adjunctive high-dose steroids (with weaning
