Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


active CNS disease (including spinal cord involvement): continuation phase of treat- ment is extended from 4 to 10 months • CNS and pericardial disease: use adjunctive high-dose steroids (with weaning and withdrawal during the intensive treatment period) • drug-resistant TB. Adherence is important for treatment to be eff ective and to prevent drug resistance. Directly observed therapy (DOT) should be considered if: previous treatment for TB, homelessness, drug/alcohol misuse, prison, psychiatric or cognitive disorder, multi- drug resistant disease, patient request. Universal access to diagnosis and treatment of TB is part of social justice. WHO has developed an ‘End TB’ strategy aiming to reduce TB deaths by 90% by 2030, and TB incidence by 90% by 2035 (www.who.int/tb/strategy/en). Drug-resistant TB NAAT (p394) for drug resistance should be requested for all patients with risk fac- tors for drug-resistance: previous TB treatment, contact with drug-resistant disease, birth or residence in a country where ≥5% new cases are drug resistant (fi g 9.10). Drug resistance may be: • to any single agent in table 9.10. • multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB): resistant to rifampicin and isoniazid. • extensively drug-resistant TB (XDR-TB): resistant to rifampicin, isoniazid, one inject- able agent (capreomycin, kanamycin or amikacin) and one fl uoroquinolone. If rifampicin resistance is detected, treat with at least six agents to which the my- cobacterium is likely to be sensitive. Test for resistance to 2nd-line drugs. Remember infection control measures. Seek expert advice for all drug-resistant cases. Fig 9.10 Percentage of new TB cases with multi-drug resistant TB. Reproduced with permission from World Health Organization, Global tuberculosis report 2016. © World Health Organization 2016. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 339955 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 sesaesid suoitcefnI 396 Infl uenza Infl uenza is common throughout the world, aff ecting ~5–10% of adults, and 20–30% of children each year. In most, it is a self-limiting illness. Complications can be life- threatening in the elderly, pregnant women, and those with chronic disease. There are ~4 million cases of severe infl uenza and ~500 000 deaths worldwide/yr. Seasonal infl uenza Acute viral infection of lungs and airways. Rapid person-to-person spread by aero- solized droplets and contact. Infectivity from 1d prior, to ~7d after symptoms. In- cludes three subtypes of virus: A, B, and C. Type A infl uenza is subdivided according to combinations of virus surface proteins eg A(H1N1), A(H3N2). Seasonal epidemics peak during the winter in temperate countries. Acquired immunity is specifi c to the virus subtype.
