Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


pro- teins (N) for which there is no pre-existing immunity in the population. Any non- human infl uenza viruses which transfer to humans are novel. If they also have, or develop, capacity for rapid human-to-human transmission a pandemic results. Based on previous pandemics, up to 50% of the UK population may become in- fected leading to 20 000–750 000 excess deaths. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 339966 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 sesaesid suoitcefnI Sailing the choppy waters of pandemic infl uenza 397 Pandemic infl uenza is the stormy sea of clinical medicine. Like sailors, we know there are deadly challenges to come, but we cannot predict their exact timing or nature. To prepare a boat for the tempestuous waters ahead, the mast is key; without it the sails are unsupported and progress will fl ounder. The mast of pan- demic infl uenza is a tall, vertical spar which produces maximum drive through the swell, and allows sailors to climb up high to see what the horizon has in store. When preparing for pandemic infl uenza, we must make for ourselves a spar of principles and plans fi t for the storm ahead: • Surveillance, planning, and communication: worldwide infl uenza virological sur- veillance has been conducted through the WHO for >50yr. It off ers a global alert mechanism for viruses with pandemic potential and defi nes methodologies for assessing antiviral susceptibility. Cooperation between international and nation- al public health bodies is required for an understanding of clinical characteristics and disease spread. Communication to the individual (public and social media) is needed with advice about self-isolation, when and how to seek medical help, personal hygiene. • Protect: vaccine development and production capacity (stockpiling), adequate personal protective equipment (apron, gloves, well-fi tting mask), antiviral ad- ministration according to robust evidence and sensitivity. • Animals: limiting/eliminating the animal reservoir of virus by culling, restricting animal movement, vaccination of livestock. • Research: virus characteristics, disease severity predictors, epidemiological risk factors, antiviral development, targeting of treatment and vaccination, increased-spectrum vaccines with longer-lasting immunity, eff ective healthcare worker protection, evidence-based social distancing measures. Hide and seek In 2009, there was justifi able global concern about a ‘swine fl u’ pandemic. Based on a Cochrane review in 2008, which showed reduced complications with os- eltamivir, billions were spent stockpiling the drug worldwide. In fact, the positive conclusion was driven mainly by data from an industry-funded summary of 10 trials, of which only two
