Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


os- eltamivir, billions were spent stockpiling the drug worldwide. In fact, the positive conclusion was driven mainly by data from an industry-funded summary of 10 trials, of which only two had been published.5 Cochrane needed ac- cess to these missing data. The ensuing fi ght for information was to take 5 years. The off er of a secret contract, with secret terms, and secrecy about methods, was declined. These are not acceptable methods for meta-analysis. Inconsistencies be- gan to arise in conclusions about eff ectiveness. Were people seeing diff erent data, or was this simply a close call with two sides separated by a very small fence? Either way, being able to see all the data started to become increasingly important. But even the largest phase three trial of the drug had never been published. And was self-reported pneumonia a useful outcome measure? In December 2009, Cochrane could only declare that paucity of data undermined previous fi ndings. This battle for data became part of ‘Alltrials’: a campaign for transparency in clinical trials. ~50% of all clinical trials remain unpublished. The hunt goes on to fi nd them. You can run your own drug trial, choose what to publish, and watch how the data become skewed at: www.alltrials.net/news/the-economist-publication-bias. After half a decade, under ceaseless demand, and with the withholding of data become increasingly indefensible, the clinical study reports were released. These are normally used to provide authorities with a detailed trial report. They are not easy fodder for meta-analysis. Assessing 160 000 pages was uncharted territory for Cochrane. And the conclusion: oseltamivir shortens symptoms by <1d and hos- pitalization is not reduced. Other complications were unreliably reported. The WHO includes oseltamivir on its WHO Model List of Essential Medicines (19th edition, 2015) which means it is considered effi cacious, safe, cost-eff ective, and a minimum requirement for basic healthcare. Does this stand up to independent scrutiny? The evidence base is certainly tarnished. But a pandemic is not a RCT. And the threshold of evidence to reverse policy decisions may be diff erent from the threshold needed to introduce them. If a new pandemic looms, millions more will be thrown in, for now. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 339977 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 sesaesid suoitcefnI 398 Human immunodefi ciency virus (HIV): diagnosis HIV is a retrovirus which infects and replicates in human lymphocytes (CD4 + T-cells) and macrophages. This leads to progressive immune system dysfunction, opportun- istic
