Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


immunodefi ciency virus (HIV): diagnosis HIV is a retrovirus which infects and replicates in human lymphocytes (CD4 + T-cells) and macrophages. This leads to progressive immune system dysfunction, opportun- istic infection, and malignancy = Acquired Immunodefi ciency Syndrome (AIDS). The virus is transmitted via blood, sexual fl uids, and breast milk. Virus subtypes include HIV1 (global epidemic) and HIV2 ( pathogenic, predominantly West Africa). Epidemiology ~37 million adults and children are estimated to be living with HIV worldwide (fi g 9.11), with 1.2 million deaths/yr. Africa has most of the disease (~26 million), most of the mortality (790 000/yr), and ~1% of the world’s wealth. UK: estimated ~100 000 living with HIV (=1.9/1000) including 5% of men who have sex with men (MSM). ~17% of those with HIV in UK are unaware of their infection. Fig 9.11 Adult HIV prevalence (15–49 years). Reproduced with permission from World Health Organization, ‘Adult HIV prevalence (15–49 years), 2015 by WHO region’. ©World Health Organization 2016. Pathophysiology HIV binds, via its GP120 envelope glycoprotein, to CD4 receptors on helper T cells, monocytes, and macrophages. These ‘CD4 cells’ migrate to lymphoid tissue where the virus replicates, producing billions of new virions. These are released, and in turn infect new CD4 cells. As infection progresses, depletion or impaired function of CD4 cells leads to immune function. HIV is a retrovirus: it encodes reverse transcriptase, allowing DNA copies to be produced from viral RNA. This is error prone, meaning a signifi cant mutation rate, which contributes to treatment resistance. Prevention Sexual transmission: Consistent and correct use of (male and female) condoms  transmission by ~90%. Serosorting is the restriction of (unprotected) sex depend- ing on HIV status. It is unsafe due to inaccuracies in HIV status (which is only as reliable as a person’s last test) and failure to disclose. It does not consider transfer of treatment resistance, other STIs, or hepatitis. Post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP): The short-term use of antiretroviral therapy (ART) after potential HIV exposure (sexual or occupational) should be considered an emer- gency method of HIV prevention. Can be given up to 72h (ideally <24h) after exposure. Not recommended if exposure is to a person on ART with a confi rmed and sustained (>6 months) undetectable (<200 copies/mL) viral load. 1st-line PEP6 in UK is Truvada® (tenofovir/emtricitabine) and raltegravir for 28 days (2015) (refer to local guidelines). Test for HIV 8–12 weeks after exposure. Pre-exposure
