Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


undetectable (<200 copies/mL) viral load. 1st-line PEP6 in UK is Truvada® (tenofovir/emtricitabine) and raltegravir for 28 days (2015) (refer to local guidelines). Test for HIV 8–12 weeks after exposure. Pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP): The use of ART in those at high risk of acquiring HIV including serodiff erent relationships without suppression of viral load, condomless anal sex in MSM. Trials (PROUD, IPERGAY) show an 86% reduction in HIV incidence. A large scale trial of PrEP provision (2017–2020) will inform future NHS funding decisions. Vertical transmission: All pregnant women with HIV should have commenced ART by 24 weeks’ gestation. Caesarean delivery indicated if viral load >50 copies/mL. Neonatal PEP is given from birth to 4wks old with formula-feeding. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 339988 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 sesaesid suoitcefnI Presentation 399 With symptoms of early HIV infection: • Primary HIV infection is symptomatic in ~80%, typically 2–4 weeks after infec- tion (= seroconversion illness, acute retroviral syndrome). Maintain a high index of suspicion. Off er HIV testing to anyone (regardless of risk) presenting with fl u-like symptoms and an eythematous/maculopapular rash. Consider primary HIV as a diff erential in any combination of fever, rash, myalgia, pharyngitis, mucosal ulcera- tion, lymphadenopathy, and headache/aseptic meningitis. Diagnosis of primary HIV is a unique opportunity to prevent transmission (viral load and genital shedding). HIV antibody testing may be negative but HIV RNA levels are high—seek expert help regarding viral load testing (see HIV testing later in topic). • Persistant generalized lymphadenopathy = swollen/enlarged lymph nodes >1cm in two or more non-contiguous sites (not inguinal) persisting for >3 months. Due to follicular hyperplasia caused by HIV infection. Exclude TB, infection, and malignancy. In the asymptomatic, latent phase of chronic HIV infection: In the UK there is universal testing in sexual health clinics, antenatal services, drug dependency programmes, and in patients with TB/hepatitis B/hepatitis C/lymphoma. Where HIV prevalence is >2/1000 universal testing by GPs and medical admissions units should be considered. Any request for a HIV test should be met. With complications of immune system dysfunction: See pp400–1. HIV testing The prognosis for patients with HIV in the UK is much better than for many other serious illness for which doctors routinely test. HIV testing6 should not be viewed diff erently. Any doctor can consent for a HIV test: explain the benefi ts of testing and detail how results will be given. Written consent is unnecessary. Arrange follow-up with a local HIV/GUM service
