Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


can consent for a HIV test: explain the benefi ts of testing and detail how results will be given. Written consent is unnecessary. Arrange follow-up with a local HIV/GUM service within 2 weeks (preferably <48h) for patients testing positive for the fi rst time. • ELISA for HIV antibody and antigen (p24): 4th-generation assays test for HIV an- tibody and p24 antigen. This reduces the ‘window period’ (time of false-negative testing between infection and the production of measurable antigen/antibody) to average ~10 days. Diagnosis in UK is confi rmed by a confi rmatory assay. • Rapid point-of-care testing: Immunoassay kit which gives a rapid result from a fi nger-prick or mouth swab. Only CE-marked kits should be used. Needs serological confi rmation. • Viral load: Quantifi cation of HIV RNA. Used to monitor response to ART. Not diag- nostic due to possibility of a false-positive result  care if used to test for sympto- matic primary HIV in the ‘window period’—confi rmation of seroconversion is still required. • Nucleic acid testing/viral PCR: Qualitative test for the presence of viral RNA. Used to test for vertical transmission in neonates as placental transfer of maternal anti- bodies can aff ect ELISA antibody testing up to 18 months of age. • CD4 count: Cannot diagnose HIV. Used to monitor immune system function and disease progression in patients with HIV. <200 cells/microlitre is one of the defi ning criteria for AIDS. See www.aidsmap.com for available HIV testing and country-specifi c resources. Needle-stick injury Risk of HIV transmission from a single needle-stick exposure from a person with HIV not on ART is ~1 in 300 (lower than risks of hepatitis B and C transmission). Prevent: • Use ‘safer sharps’ (incorporates a mechanism to minimize accidental injury). • Do not recap unprotected medical sharps. • When using sharps, ensure there is a disposal container nearby. Manage: • Encourage the wound to bleed, ideally under running water (do not suck). • Wash with soap and running water, do not scrub. • Seek advice from occupational health/infection control (or A&E outside of work- ing hours) regarding source testing and post-exposure prophylaxis (p398). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 339999 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 sesaesid suoitcefnI 400 Complications of HIV infection Complications of HIV can be divided into: • complications of immune dysfunction (opportunistic infection/malignancy) • complicating comorbidity • complications of treatment, ie adverse drug eff ects (see pp402–3). The diff erential diagnosis for symptoms presenting
