Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


(CI 38–70%) at 3 years. Aims of ART To reduce the HIV viral load to a level undetectable by standard labora- tory techniques leading to immunological recovery, reduced clinical progression, and reduced mortality. These aims should be met with the least possible side-eff ects. Mechanism of action (See fi g 9.13.) • CCR5 antagonists inhibit the entry of the virus into the cell by blocking the CCR5 co-receptor. • Nucleos(t)ide and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs, NNR- TIs) inhibit reverse transcriptase and the conversion of viral RNA into DNA. • Integrase strand transfer inhibitors (INSTIs) inhibit integrase and prevent HIV DNA integrating into the nucleus. • Protease inhibitors (PIs) inhibit protease, an enzyme involved in the maturation of virus particles. • Pharmacokinetic enhancers/boosters increase the eff ectiveness of antiretroviral drugs allowing lower doses eg cobicistat, ritonavir. Starting treatment Seek expert help. Infectious T T T CCR5 antagonist T T T virion T T T T E Tntry to cell T T T MT atuT ration T T T PI HIV RNA T T NRTI Reverse Proteins NNRTI transcriptase HIV DNA INSTI Fig 9.13 Mechanism of action of ART. 1 Counselling: HIV transmission and sexual health, benefi ts of therapy (not cure), adherence (life long), resistance, side-eff ects of treatment, necessary monitor- ing, disclosure to partner/family/friends, partner testing. 2 Screen for infections and malignancy (pp400–1). Includes TB, hepatitis B&C. Treat or off er prophylaxis with co-trimoxazole if CD4 <200 cells/microlitre. For latent TB see p395. Aim to start ART within 2 weeks of initiation of antimicrobial treatment for opportunistic or serious infection (seek expert advice if drug interactions or intracerebral disease). 3 Baseline tests: CD4, viral load, FBC, LFT, electrolytes, creatinine, pregnancy test, viral genotype for drug resistance. 4 Review usual medications for possible drug interactions. Advise the patient to check for drug interactions with any new medication. See www.hiv-druginteractions.org __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 440022 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 sesaesid suoitcefnI T T TT T T T T TT T TT What to start 403 Use local guidelines. Get expert help. For a treatment-naive patient consider two nucleoside reverse transcriptase in- hibitors (=’NRTI backbone’) plus one of: • ritonavir-boosted protease inhibitor • non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor • integrase inhibitor. 1st line drugs commonly used in the UK include: • NRTI backbone: Tenofovir and emtricitabine (combination tablet=Truvada®), abacavir and lamivudine (combination tablet=Kivexa®). Side-eff ects: GI distur- bance, anorexia, pancreatitis, hepatic dysfunction (severe lactic acidosis with hepatomegaly and
