Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


UK include: • NRTI backbone: Tenofovir and emtricitabine (combination tablet=Truvada®), abacavir and lamivudine (combination tablet=Kivexa®). Side-eff ects: GI distur- bance, anorexia, pancreatitis, hepatic dysfunction (severe lactic acidosis with hepatomegaly and hepatic steatosis reported, caution with hepatitis B/C), bone- mineral density. Avoid abacavir if high risk of CVD. Avoid tenofovir if eGFR <30. • Protease inhibitors: Atazanavir, darunavir. Side-eff ects: hyperglycaemia, insulin resistance (mainly 1st-generation drugs), dyslipidaemia, jaundice, and hepatitis. • NNTRI: Rilpivirine (give with food, interaction with proton pump inhibitors), efa- virenz (CNS toxicity, association with suicidality  care in depression/anxiety, adverse lipid profi le). Other side-eff ects: rash, GI disturbance. • Integrase inhibitor: Dolutegravir, elvitegravir, raltegravir. Side-eff ects: rash, GI disturbance, insomnia. Monitor: adherence (see BOX ‘Adherence’), adverse eff ects (LFTs, glucose), virologi- cal response (viral load). CD4 counts guide prophylaxis of opportunistic infection (values may not correlate with virological response, use viral load preferentially). Adherence Adherence to ART is associated with drug resistance, disease progression, and death. Adherence support should be integral to ART provision. Assess: Ask about adherence in a non-judgemental way. Do not blame. Explain the reasoning behind your questions. Is non-adherence due to practical problems or healthcare beliefs? Be ready to address both. What help would your patient like? Intervene: Normalize the situation—doubts and concerns about ART are common. Find time for discussion/information. Address concerns. Simplify the dosage regi- men, off er a multicompartment medication system. Link the taking of medication to a regular daily activity. Discuss side-eff ects: what are the risks/benefi ts to changing dose or ART regimen? Resource-limited settings In many resource-limited settings, universal access to ART remains an objective yet to be achieved. ~50% of those in need of treatment for HIV do not receive it. Interim prioritization of those with symptomatic HIV or CD4 count <350 cells/ microlitre may be appropriate as these patients are at high risk of mortality and have most short-term benefi t from ART. Equality in the treatment of HIV requires: • Eff ective, acceptable, and reliable methods to reduce HIV transmission, including treatment as prevention. • Rapid, accurate, and low-cost diagnosis and monitoring. • Standardization and simplifi cation of ART regimens. • Evidence-based ART to prevent the use of sub-standard protocols which compro- mise treatment and lead to the emergence of drug-resistant strains. • Reduced ART costs and/or eff ective allocation of resources. An HIV vaccine? Vaccines are the most eff ective way to prevent
