Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


erent sites, same sitting, aim total 40–60mL blood. • Microscopy+immunohistochemistry/fl uorescence depending on site/risk. • Other: antigen/antibody testing for general (eg mannan, galactomannan) and specifi c (eg cryptococcal) fungi; fungal metabolites; PCR: for typing/confi rmation. Seek expert advice on empirical treatment, agent depends on local epidemiology. Facts of life for ‘budding’ mycologists To the uninitiated, fungi are like bacteria, but their chitin cell walls and their knack of mitosis puts them in their own kingdom. They are larger than bacteria (eg 8μm across), and mostly reproduce by budding of germ tubes (fi g 9.21), not by fi ssion. Yeasts occur as single cells or as clusters. Hyphae often occur in a mass of cells (called moulds). A hyphal cell with cross-walls is called a mycelium. Some yeasts are dimorphic: single cells at 37°C but forming structures called mycelia, contain- ing fruiting bodies (hyphae), at room temperature. Fig 9.18 Candida of the glans. Fig 9.19 Web-space candida. Courtesy of P-Y Guillaume. Courtesy of A Huntley. Fig 9.20 Pityriasis versicolor. Fig 9.21 Germ tubes emerging from di- Reproduced from Lewis-Jones (ed), Paediatric mor ph ic Candida albicans blastospores. Dermatology 2010, with permission from Courtesy of P-Y Guillaume. Oxford University Press. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 440099 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 sesaesid suoitcefnI 410 Healthcare-associated (nosocomial) infection Healthcare-associated, or nosocomial, infections include diseases which occur: • As a direct result of treatment or contact in a hospital or healthcare setting. • As a result of healthcare delivered in the community. • Outside a healthcare setting but are brought in by patients, staff , or visitors and transmitted to others. 7–25% of hospital admissions are complicated by a nosocomial infection resulting in morbidity, mortality, and cost. The causal microbe may be benign in normal circum- stances, but is able to cause disease when the patient: 1 has been given broad-spectrum antibiotics (eg antibiotic-resistant organisms, Clostridium diffi cile colitis) 2 is unwell/immunosuppressed (opportunistic infection) 3 has compromised barriers (indwelling catheter/line, ventilation, surgery). Healthcare-associated infection Catheter-associated UTI: A catheter is inserted in ~20% of hospitalized patients. UTI is the most common infection acquired as a result of healthcare, accounting for 19% of all healthcare- associated infection. ~50% of UTIS are associated with a urethral catheter. Risk of infection is related to method of catheter insertion, duration of catheter, quality of catheter care, and patient susceptibility. To reduce risk, only catheterize if necessary: Is there obstruction? Do you need precise urine output monitoring?
