Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


of catheter insertion, duration of catheter, quality of catheter care, and patient susceptibility. To reduce risk, only catheterize if necessary: Is there obstruction? Do you need precise urine output monitoring? Remove as soon as possible. See UTI pp296–7. Infections associated with the use of intravascular access devices: Includes peripheral, central venous, and arterial catheters: tunnelled and non- tunnelled. >60% of bloodstream infections are associated with intravascular de- vices. Risk is higher with central catheters. Infection can result from introduc- tion of microbes during insertion, access (eg when giving IV antibiotics), or from microbes elsewhere in the body seeding to the foreign material. Organisms include Staphylococcus epidermidis (p388), Staphylococcus aureus (including meticillin- resistant forms  MRSA see p388), Candida species (p408), and enterococci (p389). Ensure that vascular access devices are used only when clinically indicated. Switch to oral treatment (fl uid, medication, nutrition) as soon as clinically ap- propriate. Treatment includes removal/exchange of the device whenever possible. Ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP): VAP aff ects up to 20% of patients admitted to intensive care units. Occurs as the endotracheal tube interferes with protective upper airway refl exes and fa- cilitates microaspiration. Risks  with non-invasive ventilation. In critical illness, the oropharynx becomes contaminated with GramΩve bacteria due to antibiotic exposure, altered host defences, and changes in mucosal adherence. Access to the airway occurs via folds in the endotracheal cuff and the bacterial biofi lm is then propelled to the distal airways. Organisms include Pseudomonas aeruginosa (p391), Enterobacteriaceae (p391), and Staphylococcus aureus (p388). Clinical diagnosis has sensitivity and specifi city. Suspect if new/persistent in- fi ltrates on CXR plus two or more of: purulent sputum, leucocytosis (>12≈109/L), leucopenia (<4≈109/L), temperature >38.3°C. Prevent by reducing colonization (mouthwash, silver-coated endotracheal tubes), nurse at 45° to  aspiration risk, wean off ventilator as soon as possible.. Surgical site infection: Aff ects 5% of patients undergoing surgical procedures, contributes to >⅓ of post- operative deaths. Common organisms include Staphylococcus aureus (p388), Streptococcus pyogenes (p388), and Enterobacteriaceae when surgery involves entry to hollow viscera (p391). Prevention methods include hand hygiene, strict asepsis, MRSA screening and decolonization, hair removal, peri-operative normo- thermia, minimally disturbed low adherence/transparent dressings. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 441100 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 sesaesid suoitcefnI Clostridium diffi cile 411 Gram-positive anaerobic bacillus and most common healthcare-associated patho- gen. Part of colonic fl ora in 2–5% of healthy adults, and 20–40% of hospitalized adults. Disease occurs when it converts to a vegetative (growth)
