Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


and most common healthcare-associated patho- gen. Part of colonic fl ora in 2–5% of healthy adults, and 20–40% of hospitalized adults. Disease occurs when it converts to a vegetative (growth) state with pro- duction of enterotoxins A and B, causing colitis. Typically happens when inhibition by competing colonic fl ora is lost due to antibiotic exposure. Presentation: Watery diarrhoea, mildfulminant colitis (pseudomembranes on endoscopy=‘pseudomembranous colitis’), ileus, toxic megacolon. Consider in all diarrhoea associated with antibiotic use, especially if marked neutrophilia. Diagnosis: Immunoassay for glutamate dehydrogenase (common antigen) de- tects all strains of C. diffi cile. Detection of toxin (toxin immunoassay, toxin gene nucleic acid amplifi cation) distinguishes infection from carriage. Management: SIGHT: Suspect, Isolate within 2h, Gloves and aprons, Hand wash with soap, Test immediately. • Mild/moderate: metronidazole PO. • Severe (WCC >15≈109/L or AKI or colitis or temperature >38.5oC): vancomycin PO (injection preparation can be given orally and is cheaper than capsules) or fidax- omicin (cost). • Non-responders: high-dose vancomycin+IV metronidazole, fidaxomicin, IV immu- noglubulin (no RCT data). • Recurrence: (weaning) vancomycin, fi daxomicin, faecal transplantation. Management of healthcare-associated infection Identify: Screening (eg hospital admissions for MRSA) allows isolation and decoloni- zation before harm. Be alert to new infections. Protect: Isolate multi-antibiotic-resistant microbes (eg MRSA), highly transmissi- ble infections (eg norovirus), and high-risk groups including reverse barrier nurs- ing (avoids transmission to, rather than from, patients, eg neutropenia). Patients with high-risk infections may need negative-pressure rooms (to prevent potentially infected air leaving the room), or in severe immunosuppression, positive-pressure rooms (to prevent potentially infected air entering the room). When many patients have the same nosocomial infection (eg norovirus) they may be barrier nursed to- gether in dedicated bays. Treat: Refer to local guidelines, seek expert help. Initial antibiotic choice may diff er for healthcare-associated infection. Prevent: Modify risk factors, eg nutrition, post-operative incentive spirometry to reduce pneumonia risk. Use/convert to narrow-spectrum antibiotics whenever pos- sible. Remove catheters, intravascular access devices, and wean off ventilators as soon as clinically appropriate. Take measures to  person-to-person transmission: 1 Hand hygiene. Wash hands before and after each patient contact (fi g 9.22). Alcohol-based gels are helpful but soap is needed to kill C. diffi cile spores. 2 Personal attire. In the UK there is a bare-below-the-elbows policy. Long hair should be tied back. In areas where infec- tion risk is particularly high (theatre, ICU), staff change into scrubs on arrival. Fig 9.22
