Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


until patient can swallow (dose every 12h if patient has renal failure or hepatic dysfunction or if IV needed >48h). Convert to 600mg PO TDS to total quinine course 5–7d. Give with 7d oral doxycycline (clarithromycin in children/ pregnant). Side-eff ects: cinchonism (see earlier in topic), hyperinsulinaemia. Manage in a high dependency setting. Capillary permeability so vulnerable to pul- monary oedema if over-fi lled. Lactate levels may refl ect intravascular obstruction rather than circulating hypovolaemia. Monitor: blood glucose every 4h (2h if quinine infusion), Hb, clotting, electrolytes, creatinine. Daily parasite counts are suffi cient NB: will fl uctuate with the life cycle of the parasite (see p417) and an increase in fi rst 36h of treatment may not indicate treatment failure. Given the rapid action of artesu- nate, exchange transfusion is no longer considered to off er any additional benefi t. Pregnancy: Little evidence on use/safety of artesunate. On balance of risk (preg- nancy loss, pulmonary oedema, maternal mortality), artesunate should be given. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 441188 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 sesaesid suoitcefnI Non-falciparum malaria 419 P. vivax, P. ovale, P. malariae, P. knowlesi: • If mixed infection with falciparum, treat as falciparum. • If severe/complicated non-falciparum disease, treat as severe falciparum. • If uncomplicated disease, treat with ACT as uncomplicated falciparum. Chloroquine can be used for non-falciparum disease. Dosing in adult: 620mg base at 0h, 310mg base at 6–8h, 310mg base on day 2 and 3. But: • do not use if P. falciparum cannot be excluded • be aware that ACT may work more quickly on both fever and parasite count • chloroquine resistance exists in P. vivax (Papua New Guinea, Indonesia). In addition to other treatment, P. vivax and P. ovale require eradication of liver hypnozoites with primaquine: • P. vivax: adult 30mg (0.5mg/kg) daily for 14d. • P. ovale: adult 15mg (0.25mg/kg) daily for 14d. Risk of haemolysis with primaquine in G6PD defi ciency so screen prior to use. Seek expert advice for dosing/monitoring patients with G6PD defi ciency, and in pregnancy. Malaria prevention Vector control for all people at risk of malaria. Includes: • Source reduction by destruction of mosquito breeding sites (ie standing water). • Long-lasting insecticidal nets. These should be provided free of charge and with equity of access. Nets last for ~3y, a lifespan of 5y could save ~$3.8bn. Insecticidal resistance is an increasing concern, should dual agents be used? • Indoor residual spraying, eff ective
