Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


of access. Nets last for ~3y, a lifespan of 5y could save ~$3.8bn. Insecticidal resistance is an increasing concern, should dual agents be used? • Indoor residual spraying, eff ective for 3–6 months when >80% of houses included. • Sterile male mosquito release. Estimated to initially require 20 males/human to be protected  ~64 billion sterile mosquitoes worldwide. • Genetic modifi cation to develop mosquitoes that are not susceptible to malaria (and other) parasites. Requires modifi cation that does not  fertility or will not disperse in vector population. Requires acceptability, infrastructure, and money. Chemoprophylaxis is the use of antimalarial drugs to prevent clinical disease. In high-transmission areas it is recommended for pregnant women (given at antena- tal visits) and infants (given with routine vaccination). Travellers from the UK to malaria areas should be given: 1 Bite prevention advice: insect repellents with 20–50% DEET (for all >2 months old including pregnant and breast-feeding). Apply after sunscreen with SPF >30 as DEET may  sunscreen effi cacy. 2 Chemoprophylaxis (table 9.20) according to area of travel. See www.fi tfortravel. nhs.uk/destinations.aspx Table 9.20 Prophylactic regimen against malaria in adults (refer to BNF) Area Regimen Notes No drug Chloroquine 310mg base/week 1wk before and 4wks after travel. resistance OR proguanil 200mg OD Chloroquine: GI disturbance, head- Little Chloroquine 310mg base/week ache. CI epilepsy. chloroquine PLUS proguanil 200mg OD Proguanil: diarrhoea, antifolate (care resistance if possibility of pregnancy). Chloroquine- Mefl oquine 250mg/week 2–3wks prior and 4wks after. Neu- resistant OR ropsychiatric SE, dizziness. P. falciparum Doxyxcycline 100mg OD OR 1–2d prior, 4wks after, SE: hepatic im- pairment, teratogenic. Atovaquone-proguanil combi- 1–2d prior, 1wk after, expert advice nation with HIV ART. Malaria eradication is the permanent reduction of the incidence of malaria meaning that intervention is no longer required. It is dependent upon the social, demographic, and economic status of a country, the available healthcare system, and investment. It requires diagnosis and treatment to achieve parasitologic (as opposed to clinical) cure in order to eliminate asymptomatic transmission. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 441199 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 sesaesid suoitcefnI 420 Mosquito-borne disease Mosquito-borne diseases12 are transmitted by the bite of a mosquito infected with a virus, bacteria, or parasite. The mosquito acts as the disease vector. Mosquitoes are arthropods (see table 9.21). Mosquito-borne diseases can therefore also be de- scribed as vector-borne or arthropod-borne disease. When a virus is transmitted by an arthropod it is termed an arbovirus (ARthropod-BOrne VIRUS). Malaria
