Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


disease course to Ebola. Ebola/ Marburg suggested by liver tenderness. Lassa ~80% mild/asymptomatic. Haemorrhage in ~20%. Variable mortality in dif- ferent epidemics 25–80%. Exudative pharyngitis. Convalescent hearing loss. Observational data shows response to ribavarin if given in fi rst 6d. CCHF Tick-borne. Sudden onset prodrome. Haemorrhagic stage common, develops rapidly, but usually short-lived 2–3d. Ribavarin used in treatment (evidence). Risk assessment for VHF in UK Assess for possible transmission and fever. • Transmission: 1 Travel to endemic area (rural for Lassa fever; caves/primates/ante- lopes/bats for Ebola/Marburg; tick/animal slaughter for CCHF). 2 Travel to known outbreak ( 3 Contact with infected specimen. • Fever: >37.5°C in the past 24h. If possible transmission and fever consider ‘high possibility’ (≠high probability), iso- late, PPE (see BOX ‘Equipment’). Inform local infectious disease team and contact the Imported Fever Service (0844 778 8990) for VHF investigation. Bruising, bleeding, and uncontrolled D&V also warrant isolation and discussion if relevant contact history. Ebola and sacrifi ce This page is dedicated to Dr Sam Brisbane, director of the emergency depart- ment in Monrovia, Liberia. Caring, light-hearted, intense, profane. In 2013, he ex- pressed his greatest worry: an epidemic of VHF. A well-founded fear which would ultimately prove prophetic, in a hospital with a shortage of personnel, rationing of gloves, and limited soap. Universal precautions? Unaff ordable, and not even close. He was also a coff ee farmer. But not for him a deserved retirement to his planta- tion, surrounded by photographs of 8 children, 6 adopted children, and grand- children to match. Unprotected, despite a lucky fedora and a gallows sense of humour, he contracted Ebola in 2014 at the age of 74 whilst manning the front line of the world’s deadliest VHF epidemic to date. During his illness he told his doctors, ‘When we fi nd ourselves in the middle of the sea and there are rough waves, we should not give up. We should fi ght on to the end’. A truly sagacious man whose life and doctoring transcends Western perspectives. We can never replicate your courage, because we will never know your fear. It is fi ttingly, the stuff of legend. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 442277 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0077 sesaesid suoitcefnI 428 Gastroenteritis: an overview Gastroenteritis = diarrhoea (± vomiting) due to enteric infection with viruses, bac- teria, or parasites. Diarrhoea can be defi ned as: • acute diarrhoea: ≥3 episodes partially formed or watery stool/day for <14d •
