Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


by the lo- cal doctor, Dr John Snow. He used his now famous Voronoi diagram showing the deaths within a ‘line of nearest pump’ to motiva te the parish vestry: ‘In consequence of what I said, the handle of the pump was removed the following day’, so inaugu- Fig 9.37 Death’s Dispensary, rating the control of cholera. These events illustrate George Pinwell, 1866. a number of truths: © Granger, NYC / Topfoto 1 Knowledge of the microscopic cause of disease is not required for public health measures to succeed (Vibrio cholerae was identifi ed by Robert Kock in 1883). 2 Even the most parochial are capable of life-saving action when assisted by a doctor in command of the facts. 3 Infl uential friends help. Snow remained largely unknown until the 1930s when On the Mode of Communication of Cholera was republished by Wade Hampton Frost, fi rst professor of epidemiology at John Hopkins School. 4 Randomization (Broad St pump versus an alternative water supply) is king. Diarrhoea with blood (dysentery) Shigella (sonnei, fl exneri, dysenteriae, boydii): Gram Ωve anaerobe. Presentation: watery or bloody diarrhoea, pain, tenesmus, fever 1–2d after exposure. Lasts ~5–7d.  in MSM. Complications: bacteraemia, reactive arthritis (~2% of fl exneri), HUS (Shiga- toxin-producing dysenteriae, p315). Diagnosis: stool culture. PCR/enzyme immuno- assay. Treatment: supportive. Nutrition: green bananas (short-chain fatty acids in colon), zinc if age <6y, vitamin A. Antibiotics if systemically unwell, immunosup- pressed. Guided by local sensitivities (ciprofl oxacin, azithromycin). Avoid antidiar- rhoeal agents: risk of toxic dilatation. Enterohaemorrhagic/Shiga-toxin producing E. coli (STEC), eg O157:H7: Gram Ωve anaerobe. Produces veratoxins which are ‘Shiga-like’ due to similarity with Shigella dysenteriae. Presentation: incubation 3–8d. Diarrhoea, haemorrhagic colitis. HUS in up to 10% (p315). Diagnosis: stool culture. PCR/enzyme immunoassay for Shiga-toxin. Treatment: Supportive. Do not give antibiotics:  risk of HUS. Campylobacter: Gram Ωve, spiral-shaped rod. Presentation: incubation 1–10d (usu- ally 2–5d). Bloody diarrhoea, pain, fever, headache. Complications: bacteraemia, hepatitis, pancreatitis, miscarriage, reactive arthritis, Guillain–Barré. Diagnosis: stool culture. PCR/enzyme immunoassay. Treatment: supportive. Antibiotics only in invasive cases, refer to local sensitivities (macrolide, doxycycline, quinolone). Salmonella enterocolitis (non-typhoidal): Gram Ωve, anaerobic, motile bacilli. Pres- entation: diarrhoea, cramps, fever, usually within 12–36h of exposure. Invasive infec- tion (<10%) can cause bacteraemia/sepsis, meningitis, osteomyelitis, septic arthritis. Diagnosis: stool culture. PCR. Treatment: supportive. Meta-analysis shows no evi- dence of benefi t for antibiotics in healthy people. Consider in severe/extra-intestinal disease according to local sensitivities
