Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


60- 90% (Africa, Central and South America, Asia, Middle East). Caused by Chlamydia trachomatis. Human-to- human transmission with contact, or via fl ies which land on noses/eyes. Presenta- tion: Active infection causes purulent discharge and follicular infl ammation of the eyelid (fi g 9.47a)scarring (fig 9.47b)eyelids turn inwards (entropion) and irritate the cornea (trichiasis) (fig 9.47c) leading to visual loss. Treatment: WHO public health strategy SAFE: surgery to treat blinding disease (trichiasis), antibiotics (azithromycin) to clear infection (mass administration in en- demic areas through International Trachoma Initiative), facial cleanliness, environ- mental improvement with access to water and sanitation.12 (a) (b) (c) Fig 9.47 (a) Follicular trachoma. (b) Scarring. (c) Trichiasis. Reproduced from Warrell et al., Oxford Textbook of Medicine, 2010, with permission from Oxford University Press. Immunosuppression and the eye • Herpes zoster ophthalmicus: Due to reactivation of latent varicella zoster virus (p404) in the ophthalmic branch of the trigeminal nerve.  Risk of reactivation and ocular complications in immunosuppression: HIV, post-transplantation. Presentation: vesiculomacular skin rash and dysaes- thesia in ophthalmic division of the trigeminal nerve (fi g 9.48). Hutchinson’s sign = lesion at tip/side of nose indicates involvement of nasociliary branch of V1 and chance of eye involvement. Complications: corneal Fig 9.48 Herpes zoster ophthalmicus. opacifi cation, uveitis, ocular nerve palsy, eyelid de- ©MN Oxman , University of California. formity, optic neuritis, post-herpetic neuralgia. Can be sight-threatening  recognition and urgent treatment are required. Diagnosis: clinical. Antibody staining/PCR of skin scrapings. Treatment: oral famciclovir/valacyclovir or systemic aciclovir reduce complications if given within 72h of symptoms. Analgesia. If retinitis IV cidofovir ± intravit- real ganciclovir or foscarnet. • CMV retinitis: Reactivation of CMV infection (p405). Presentation: fl oaters due to infl ammatory cells in vitreous, fl ashing Fig 9.49 CMV retinitis (moz- zarella pizza fundus). lights, scotomata, eye pain, visual loss. Peripheral lesions ©Prof Trobe. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 443388 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 sesaesid suoitcefnI may be asymptomatic. Routine examination for those at 439 risk (CD4<100 cells/microlitre). Diagnosis: clinical. Fundos- copy: granular white dots, haemorrhage (fi g 9.49). Can progress to an arcuate/triangular zone of infection, or can be linear following vessels/nerve fi bres. Treatment: sys- temic valganciclovir (oral, IV). Also ganciclovir, foscarnet, cidofovir. ART if underlying HIV (see p402). • Ocular toxoplasmosis: Causes posterior uveitis. Presentation: blurred vision/ fl oaters. Diagnosis: clinical. Fundoscopy (fi g 9.50): focus Fig 9.50 Retinal toxoplas- of choroiditis, chorioretinal scar from previous infection, mosis. ©Prof Trobe. overlying vitreal
