Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


posterior uveitis. Presentation: blurred vision/ fl oaters. Diagnosis: clinical. Fundoscopy (fi g 9.50): focus Fig 9.50 Retinal toxoplas- of choroiditis, chorioretinal scar from previous infection, mosis. ©Prof Trobe. overlying vitreal haze due to infl ammatory response. Multiple/bilateral/extensive lesions if  immunosuppression. Serology. Ocular fl uid PCR. Treatment: atovaquone (toxicity), sulfadiazine, and pyrimethamine. Filarial infection Onchocerciasis (‘river blindness’) Caused by fi larial worm, Onchocerca volvulus. Transmitted by the bite of infected black fl ies which breed in fast-fl owing rivers and streams. Second most com- mon infectious cause of blindness worldwide: predominantly sub-Saharan Africa, Brazil, Venezuela, Yemen. Presentation: A nodule forms at the site of the bite where larvae mature to adult worms. The female adult can release up to 1000 microfi lariae/day causing: • skin disease: altered pigmenta tion, lichenifi cation, loss of elasticity, poor healing • eye disease: keratitis, uveitis, cataract, fi xed pupil, fundal degeneration, optic neuritis/atrophy, visual impairment/loss (fi g 9.51) • impaired lymphatic function: lymphadenopathy, elephantiasis. Diagnosis: Visualization of microfi laria in eye or on skin snip biopsy: a fi ne shav- ing of clean skin is incubated in 0.9% saline to allow microfi lariae to emerge for microscopic identifi cation. Serology. Treatment: Ivermectin 150mcg/kg, one dose every 3–12 months (depending on likely re-exposure). CI if coexisting Loa-Loa due to risk of fatal encephalitic reaction. Or 6wk doxycycline. No vaccine available. Fig 9.51 Bilateral sclerosing Fig 9.52 Migrating Loa loa Fig 9.53 Loa loa crossing the keratitis in onchocerciasis in the skin. conjunctiva. causing blindness. Reproduced from Warrell et al. Reproduced from Warrell et al. Reproduced from Warrell et al. Oxford Textbook of Medicine, Oxford Textbook of Medicine, Oxford Textbook of Medicine, 2010, with permission from 2010, with permission from 2010, with permission from Oxford University Press. Oxford University Press. Oxford University Press. Loiasis (African eye-worm) Caused by parasitic worm Loa loa. Transmitted via bite of deerfl ies (=mangrove/ mango fl ies) which breed in rainforests of west and central Africa. Presenta- tion: Recurrent pruritic lesions due to angioedema (‘Calabar swellings’), myalgia, arthralgia. The adult worm can migrate through subcutaneous (fi g 9.52) and sub- conjunctival (fi g 9.53) tissue: ‘Something’s wiggling in my eye, doctor’. This eerie eye trip causes intense conjunctivitis, which heals if left alone. (Don’t treat until transmigration in the eye is over: on detecting your therapy the worm tends to panic.) Also causes glomerulonephritis, and encephalitis. Diagnosis : Microfi lar- iae
