Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


at the bite site, beg i nning as an itchy papule; crusts fall off to leave a pain- less ulcer with a well-defi ned, raised border and a crusted base = ‘Chiclero’s ulcer’ (fi g 9.56). Diagnosis: Skin biopsy + PCR. Treat- ment: Most heal in ~2–15 months with scar- ring (disfi guring if extensive). ‘New World‘ disease (South America) needs treating due Fig 9.56 Cutaneous leishmaniasis with cen- to risk of mucocutaneous disease: pentava- tral crusting. lent antimony, eg meglumine antimoniate, Reproduced from Lewis-Jones, Paediatric Der- sodium stibogluconate. (See p423.) matology, 2010, with permission from Oxford University Press. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 444400 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 sesaesid suoitcefnI Myiasis 441 Infection with fl y larvae/maggot. Can aff ect living and necrotic tissue. In south and central America the human botfl y lays its eggs on mosquitoes which de- posit them when they bite. In sub-Sahran Africa the tumbu fl y lays its eggs on clothing which then trans- fer to skin. Presentation: Painful swelling. May have sensation of movement within the lesion. May open to reveal larval breathing tubes (fi g 9.57). Diagnosis: Clinical. Identifi cation of larvae in lesion. Treatment: Petroleum or pork fat cause asphyxiation of the mag- Fig 9.57 Myiasis. got causing it to protrude further out of the skin ena- Reproduced under Creative Commons bling removal with tweezers. Care: backward-facing CC0 1.0 Universal Public Domain from spines in American disease may prevent complete removal unless done surgically. Ensure tetanus vac- File:Miasis_human.jpg cination is up to date. Tungiasis Infection of the skin by the sand/jigger fl ea Tunga penetrans. Acquired (usually walking barefoot) in sandy soil, rainforests, and banana plantations in south and central America, sub-Saharan Africa, Asia, Caribbean. Presentation: Painful, itchy papule on the feet. May be visible extrusion of eggs. Black crusting when fl ea dies. Diagnosis: Clinical. Treatment: None, self-limiting. Leprosy (Hansen’s disease) Caused by slow-growing, acid-fast Mycobacterium leprae which aff ects skin, nerves, and mucous membranes. Incubation 5–20y. Transmitted via droplets from nose/mouth during close and frequent contact. Classifi ed as: • Multibacillary (‘lepromatous’): immune response, bacilli, +ve smear. • Paucibacillary (‘tuberculoid’): immune response, granulomata with bacilli, smears may be Ωve. Free treatment through WHO since 1995: prevalence  by 99% to 176 000 in 2014 (5.2 million in 1985).12 Presentation: Hypopigment- ed skin lesions (fi g 9.58, less well demarcated than vitiligo), sensory loss, thickened nerves, nodules, plaques, nasal congestion, epistaxis, muscle weakness, paralysis, neuropathic
