Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


may be needed. Ask Do not expect to fi nd apposite questions such as these in any other textbook: 1 ‘Have you delivered any septic babies in the last year?’ Impress and cure your obstetrician friends who tell you that ‘I’m so depressed about not being able to shake off this fl u’, and who have forgotten about transfer of brucellosis from baby to obstetrician. 2 ‘Are your carp well at present?’ Mycobacte rium marinum skin infection. 3 ‘Could that be a Hyalomma tick bite from when you rode your ostrich in last week’s race?’ Crimean-Congo haemorrhagic fever. 4 ‘Who has been licking your face recently?’ Pasteurella multocida. 5 ‘Has your dog been on holiday this year?’ Monkeypox from prairie dogs. 6 ‘Has your pet hedgehog lost weight?’ Salmonella. 7 ‘Did you develop your headache after you adopted your pet magpie?’ Zo- onotic transmission of Cryptococcus neoformans causing meningitis. 8 ‘Did you have a stray pig living under your house when the monsoon started?’ Pigs + standing water + mosquitoes = Japanese encephalitis. 9 ‘Did you sample the local frog paella?’ Angiostrongyliasis causing eosino- philic meningitis. 10 ‘Did your goat miscarry last year?’ Coxiella burnetii. 11 ‘Did your depressed pig develop a purple snout?’ Erysipelothrix rhusi- opathiae endocarditis via swine erysipelas. 12 ‘Can I see your pet lobster: he may be the cause of your bad hand?’ Lob- sterman’s hand, an erysipeloid infection from Erysipelothrix. Pet lobsters have a grand pedigree. Gérard de Nerval used to take his pet lobster for walks, on a blue silk lead, beside the Seine (fi g 9.60). A lobster, he said, is, ‘serious-minded and quiet, doesn’t scratch or bark like a dog, and knows all of the secrets of the deep’. His lobster’s mission was to combat the Philistinism chaining us all to mediocrity. Ask also, ‘Where have you been?’ Though you will not be Fig 9.60 ‘Is your pet lobster absolved of thought, even when the answer is, ‘South- well?’ (Gérard de Nerval). end’. It may be a question of amnesic stopovers. Or perhaps your patient is an airport baggage-handler, bitten by a hitch-hiking mos- quito. And even when there has been no travel to the tropics, global warming is ensuring that the tropics are travelling to us. To the fi rst writers of medical books, Paradise was just beyond the Far East, and the world was a disc surrounded by oceans of
