Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Aristotle held that the psyche (Greek: ψυχή=soul) was not separate to its housing body, as one could not exist without the other. This view was directly contradicted by the 17th-century French philosopher René Descartes. He proposed the theory of ‘mind–body dualism’ in which the mind, located in the pineal gland, is an entirely separate entity to the material being, and controls the avatar of the physical body like a puppeteer. These confl icting viewpoints well illustrate the spectrum of neurological disease and its blurred boundaries with psychiatry and psychology. Jean Martin Charcot (1825–1893), often credited as the father of neurology, appeared to be more inter- ested in this crossover than neuronal dysfunction: he spent two decades of his career studying hysteria in Paris, initially attributing symptoms of crying, fainting, and temporary blindness to an organic, inherited cause, before revising his view in later life to conclude that this was a psychological disease. His controversial work in this fi eld inspired his student Sigmund Freud’s psychoanalytical theories, and illustrated the very real power of the conscious, or sub-conscious, to produce physical symptoms, a phenomenon familiar to all physicians. Perhaps refl ecting our frustration with this challenging area as much as his limited success, we re- member Charcot for his more tangible outputs, for example, in giving the inau- gural description of, among other things, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson’s disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Charcot–Marie–Tooth disease, and of course his eponymous misshapen joint resulting from proprioceptive loss. However, both Aristotle and Charcot would have surely agreed with Descartes’ proposition of ‘cogito ergo sum’: I think, therefore I am. Whether mind and brain are dual or one, they are inextricably linked and the very nature of awareness proves its existence. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 444455 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN 446 Where is the lesion? This is an important fi rst question to ask and depends on recognizing characteristic patterns of cognitive, cranial nerve, motor, and sensory defi cits. Locating a focal le- sion can be aided by features such as asymmetry (eg one pupil dilated, one upgoing plantar response) or a spinal level (eff ects may be symmetrical below the lesion). Note that sometimes there is no single lesion, rather, a general insult causing a falsely localizing sign, eg abducens nerve palsy in ICP. Other generalized causes of specifi c local eff ects are: trauma,encephalitis, anoxia,poisoning,or post-ictal states. Patterns of loss Are crucial in locating the lesion (see
