Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


eg abducens nerve palsy in ICP. Other generalized causes of specifi c local eff ects are: trauma,encephalitis, anoxia,poisoning,or post-ictal states. Patterns of loss Are crucial in locating the lesion (see BOX ‘From fi ndings to neu- roanatomy’): Upper motor neuron (UMN): Patterns of weakness are caused by damage anywhere along the corticospinal (=pyramidal) tracts: pathways that carry motor information from the precentral gyrus of the frontal cortex up to the synapse with anterior horn cells in the spinal cord (via the internal capsule, brainstem, and cord).1 •UMN weakness aff ects groups rather than individual muscles, typically in a ‘pyramidal’ pattern: in the arm, extensors are predominantly aff ected; in the leg the opposite is true and the fl exors are the weaker muscle group. •Spasticity develops in the stronger muscle groups (arm fl exors and leg extensors). It manifests as tone that is velocity-de- pendent, ie the faster you move the patient’s muscle, the greater the resistance, until it fi nally gives way (like a ‘clasp-knife’).2 •Muscle wasting is less prominent. • There is hyperrefl exia: refl exes are brisk. • Plantars are upgoing (+ve Babinski sign) ± clonus (elicited by rapidly dorsi fl exing the foot; ≤3 rhythmic, downward beats of the foot are normal). •Loss of skilled fi ne fi nger move ments may be greater than expected from the overall grade of weakness (see BOX ‘Muscle weakness grading’). UMN lesions can mimic LMN lesions in the fi rst few hours before spasticity and hyperrefl exia develop. Lower motor neuron (LMN): Lesions are caused by damage anywhere from the ante- rior horn cells distally, including the nerve roots, plexuses, and peripheral nerves. The pattern of weakness corresponds to the muscles supplied by the involved neurons. •Aff ected muscles show wasting ± fasciculation (spontaneous involuntary twitching). •There is hypotonia/fl accidity: the limb feels soft and fl oppy, providing little resistance to passive stretch. •Refl exes are reduced or absent; the plantars r emain fl exor. The chief diff erential for LMN weakness is a primary muscle disease (p510)—but here there is symmetrical loss, refl exes are normal or lost late, and there is no sensory component. Mixed LMN and UMN signs: Can occur, eg in MND, B12, taboparesis (see p466). Sensory defi cits: It is important to test individual modalities and remember the quirks of our normal wiring: correctly interpreted, the distribution of sensory loss and the modality involved
