Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


p466). Sensory defi cits: It is important to test individual modalities and remember the quirks of our normal wiring: correctly interpreted, the distribution of sensory loss and the modality involved (pain, T°, touch, vibration, joint-position sense) will help refi ne and increase your confi dence in localizing the lesion (see BOX ‘From fi ndings to neuroanatomy’). Pain and T° sensations travel along small fi bres in peripheral nerves and the anterolateral (spinothalamic) tracts in the cord and brainstem (p516), whereas joint-position and vibration sense travel in large fi bres in peripheral nerves and the large dorsal columns of the cord. Muscle weakness grading (MRC classifi cation) • Grade 0 No muscle contraction • Grade 3 Active movement against gravity • Grade 1 Flicker of contraction • Grade 4 Active movement against resistance • Grade 2 Some active movement • Grade 5 Normal power (allowing for age) Grade 4 covers a big range: 4Ω, 4, and 4+ denote movement against slight, moder- ate, and stronger resistance; avoid fudging descriptions—‘streng th 4/5 through- out’ suggests a mild quadriparesis or myopathy. It is better to document ‘poor eff ort’ and the maximum grade for each muscle tested. Distribution of weakness tells us more than grade of weakness (grade does help document improvement). 1 Most of the fi bres of the corticospinal (=pyramidal) tract decussate at the medullary pyramids, hence the name and the contralateral nature of symptoms. Extrapyramidal denotes damage to the basal ganglia and presents as parkinsonism (see p468, 494). 2 Whereas with rigidity,  tone is not velocity-dependent but constant throughout passive movement. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 444466 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN From fi ndings to neuroanatomy: localizing the lesions 447 Cortical lesions may cause a particularly localized problem with hand or foot movements, with normal or even tone—but refl exes more proximally in the arm or leg will point to this being an UMN rather than LMN lesion. Sensory loss may be confi ned to discriminative functions, eg stereognosis and two-point discrimina- tion (p499). Internal capsule (p470) and corticospinal tract lesions cause con- tralateral hemiparesis (UMN signs). There is generalized contralateral sensory loss. A cranial nerve palsy (III–XII) contralateral to a hemiple gia implicates the brain- stem on the side of the cranial nerve palsy. Lateral brainstem lesions show both dissociated and crossed sensory loss with pain and T° loss on the side of the face ipsilateral to the lesion, and contralateral arm and
