Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


palsy. Lateral brainstem lesions show both dissociated and crossed sensory loss with pain and T° loss on the side of the face ipsilateral to the lesion, and contralateral arm and leg sensory loss. Cord lesions causing paraparesis (both legs) or quadriparesis/tetra plegia (all limbs) are sug- gested by fi nding a motor and refl ex level (power is unaff ected above the lesion, with LMN signs at the level of the lesion, and UMN signs below the lesion). A sensory level is the hallmark (albeit a rather unreliable one)—ie decreased sensation below the level of the lesion with normal sensation above. Hemi- cord lesions cause a Brown-Séquard picture (p696): dorsal column loss on the side of the lesion and contralateral spinothalamic loss. Dissociated sensory loss may occur, eg in cervi- cal cord lesions—loss of fi ne touch and proprioception without loss of pain and temperature (or vice versa, eg syringomyelia, p516; or cord tumours). Peripheral neuropathies: (p502.) Most cause distal weakness, eg foot-drop; weak hand (note: although Guillain–Barré syndrome typically presents as distal weakness that as- cends over time, some atypical forms of Guillain–Barré syndrome may present with proximal weakness due to nerve root involvement). Sensory loss is typically worse distally (may involve all sensory modalities or be selective, depending on nerve fi bre size involved). Involvement of a single nerve (mononeuropathy) occurs with trauma or entrapment (carpal tunnel, p503); invol vement of several nerves (mononeuritis multiplex) is seen, eg in DM or vasculitis. Sensory loss from indi- vidual nerve lesions will follow anatomical territories (dermatomes, p454), which are usually more sharply defi ned than those of root lesions. Also ask What is the lesion? Are the cells diseased, dysfunctional, disconnected (after a stroke), or under- or overexcited (migraine; epilepsy)? Is there loss of a specifi c type of nerve cell, as in MND or subacute com bined degeneration of the cord (B12, p334). Arteriopaths get strokes, tropical travellers get wormy lesions. Why? Is there a systemic disease causing the neurology? Eg atrial fi brillation allowing an embolus to form, which then lodges in the patient’s dominant hemi- sphere, causing an infarct that presents with dysphasia. Do a full systems ex- amination and always beware the irregularly irregular pulse. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 444477 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN 448 Drugs and the nervous system The brain is a gland that secretes both thoughts and molecules: both products are modulated by neurotransmitter systems. Some target
