Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN 450 Cerebral blood supply Knowledge of the anatomy of the blood supply of the brain helps diagnosis and management of cerebrovascular disease (pp470–8). Always try to identify the area of brain that correlates with a patient’s symptoms and identify the aff ected artery. Internal carotid arteries Supply the majority of blood to the anterior two-thirds of the cerebral hemispheres and the basal ganglia (via the lenticulos triate arteries). At worst, internal carotid artery occlusion causes fatal total i nfarction of these areas. More often, the picture is like middle cerebral artery occlusion (see later in topic). The circle of Willis (fi g 10.2) An anastomotic ring at the base of the brain fed by the three arteries that supply the brain with blood: the internal carotids (anteriorly) and the basilar artery (posteriorly, formed by the joining of the vertebral arteries, which supply the brainstem). This arrangement may compensate for the eff ects of occlusion of a feeder vessel by allowing supply from unaff ected vessels; however, the anatomy of the circle of Willis is variable and in many people it does not provide much protection. Cerebral arteries Three pairs of arteries leave the circle of Willis to supply the cerebral hemispheres: the anterior, middle, and posterior cerebral arteries (fi gs 10.2, 10.3). The anterior and middle cerebrals are branches of the internal carotid arteries; in 80%, the basilar artery divides into the two posterior cerebral arteries. Ischaemia from occlusion of any one of them may be lessened by retrograde supply from lep- tomeningeal vessels. Anterior cerebral artery: (fi g 10.2) Supplies the frontal and medial part of the cerebrum. Occlusion may cause a weak, numb contralateral leg ± similar, if milder, arm symptoms. The face is spared. Bilateral infarction is a rare cause of paraplegia and an even rarer cause of akinetic mutism. Middle cerebral artery: (fi g 10.2) Supplies the lateral part of each hemisphere. Oc- clusion may cause contralateral hemiparesis, hemisensory loss (esp. face and arm), contralateral homonymous hemianopia due to involvement of the optic radiation, cognitive change including dysphasia with dominant hemisphere lesions, and visuo- spatial disturbance (eg cannot dress; gets lost) with non-dominant lesions. Posterior cerebral artery: (fi gs 10.2, 10.4) Supplies the occipital lobe. Occlusion gives contralateral homon ymous hemianopia (often with macula sparing). Vertebrobasilar circulation Supplies the cerebellum, brainstem, occipital lobes; occlusion causes signs relating to any or all three: hemianopia;
