Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


occipital lobe. Occlusion gives contralateral homon ymous hemianopia (often with macula sparing). Vertebrobasilar circulation Supplies the cerebellum, brainstem, occipital lobes; occlusion causes signs relating to any or all three: hemianopia; cortical blindness; diplopia; vertigo; nystagmus; ataxia; dysarthria; dysphasia; hemi- or quadriplegia; unilat eral or bilateral sensory symptoms; hiccups; coma. Infarctions of the brain stem can produce various syndromes, eg lateral medullary syndrome, in which occlusion of one vertebral artery or the posterior inferior cerebe llar artery causes infarction of the lateral medulla and the inferior cerebellar surface ( vertigo, vomiting, dysphagia, nystagmus, ipsilateral ataxia, soft palate paralysis, ipsilateral Horner’s syndrome, and a crossed pattern sensory loss—analgesia to pin-prick on ipsilateral face and contra- lateral trunk and limbs). Locked-in syndrome is caused by damage to the ventral pons due to pontine artery occlusion. Patients are unable to move, but retain full cognition and awareness, communicating by blinking, electronic boards, or special computers. Right-to-die legislation may be invoked...as one suff erer blinked: ‘My life is dull, miser- able, demeaning, undignifi ed, and intolerable.’ Locked-in syndrome is diff erent from other right-to-die conditions because patients need someone to do the act for them. Subclavian steal syndrome: Subclavian artery stenosis proximal to the origin of the vertebral artery may cause blood to be stolen by retrograde fl ow down this vertebral artery down into the arm, causing brainstem ischaemia typically after use of the arm. Suspect if the BP in each arm diff ers by >20mmHg. ‘Dizzy-plus’ syndromes and arterial events • SCA dizzy • AICAdizzy and deaf • PICAdizzy and dysphagic and dysphonic. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 445500 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN Optic chiasm Anterior cerebral artery 451 Internal Anterior communicating artery carotid artery Middle cerebral artery Superior cerebellar Posterior communicating artery artery Posterior cerebral artery Pontine arteries Basilar artery Anterior inferior cerebellar artery Vertebral artery Posterior inferior Anterior cerebellar artery (PICA) spinal artery Fig 10.2 The circle of Willis at the base of the brain. See also fi gs 10.17, 10.18. Fig 10.3 Berry aneurysm at junction of Fig 10.4 CT of stroke in posterior cer- posterior communicating artery with ebral artery territory. ©J Trobe. internal carotid (p478). ©Dr D Hamoundi. Thomas Willis Thomas Willis (1621–1675) is one of those happy Oxford heroes who hold a bogus DM degree, awarded in 1646 for his Royalist sympathies while at Christ Church, the most loyally royal college in the University. He had a busy life inventing terms such
