Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


bogus DM degree, awarded in 1646 for his Royalist sympathies while at Christ Church, the most loyally royal college in the University. He had a busy life inventing terms such as ‘neurology’ and ‘refl ex’. Not only has his name been given to his famous circle, but he was the fi rst to describe myasthenia gravis, whooping cough, and the sweet taste of diabetic urine. He was the fi rst person (few have followed him) to know the course of the spinal accessory nerve. He is unusual among Oxford neurologists in that he developed the practice of giving his lunch away to the poor. He also espoused iatrochemistry: a theory of medicine ac- cording to which all morbid conditions of the body can be explained by distur- bances in the fermentations and eff ervescences of its humours. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 445511 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN 452 Testing peripheral nerves While there is some anatomical variation between individuals in ascribing particular nerve roots to muscles, tables 10.2–10.4 represent a reasonable compromise. Der- matomes and sensory nerve roots are shown in fi gs 10.5-10.9, pp454-5. Remember to test proximal muscle power: ask the patient to sit from lying, to pull you towards him/herself, and to rise from squatting (if reasonably fi t). Observe walking—easy to forget, even if the complaint is of diffi culty walking! Don’t be caught out by weakness secondary to musculoskeletal pathology—the traditional neurological examination relies on the musculoskeletal system being intact. Ruptured tendons and fractures may mimic focal neurological lesions (espe- cially in patients who can’t give a clear history). Table 10.2 Assessment of peripheral nerve function in the lower limb Nerve root Muscle Test by asking the patient to: Femoral nerve L1, 2, 3 Iliopsoas (also supplied via Flex hip against resistance with knee L1, 2, & 3 spinal nerves) fl exed and lower leg supported: patient lies on back L2, 3, 4 Quadriceps femoris Extend at knee against resista nce. Start with knee fl exed Obturator nerve L2, 3, 4 Hip adductors Adduct leg against resistance Inferior gluteal nerve L5, S1, S2 Gluteus maximus Hip extension (‘bury heel into the couch’)—with knee in extension Superior gluteal nerve L4, 5, S1 Gluteus medius and minimus Abduction and internal hip rotation with leg fl exed at hip and knee Sciatic and common peroneal* nerves; sciatic and tibial** nerves *L4, 5 Tibialis anterior Dorsifl ex ankle *L5, S1 Extensor digitorum longus Dorsifl
