Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


over 5–8 weeks if both topiramate and propranolol are unsuitable or ineff ective. Transcutaneous nerve stimulation may help. Considerations in females Incidence of migraine (especially with aura) + ischae- mic stroke is increased by use of a combined OCP. Use progesterone-only or non- hormonal contraception in migraine + aura, though a low dose combined OCP can be used in those without aura. Further risk: • Smoking • Age >35yrs • BP • Obesity (body mass index >30) • Diabetes mellitus • Hyperlipidaemia • Family history of arte- riopathy <45yrs. Warn patients to stop OCP at once if they develop aura or worsen- ing migraine; see OHCS p301. Perimenstrual migraine: If uncontrolled with standard treatment and the onset of headache is predictable then consider frovatriptan 2.5mg BD or zolmitriptan 2.5mg BD/TDS on the days migraine is expected. Pregnancy: Migraine often improves; if not, get help—worsening headaches in pregnancy are associated with a greater risk of pre-eclampsia and cardiovascular complications. Off er paracetamol 1st line. Triptans and NSAIDs can be used but discuss risks and benefi ts with patients fi rst. Don’t use aspirin if breastfeeding. Anti-emetic: cyclizine or promethazine. Prophylaxis: seek specialist advice. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 445588 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN What is going on in migraine? 459 Despite the high prevalence of migraines, the underlying pathophysiology is poorly understood. The previously favoured theory of dilatation of cerebral and meningeal arteries has been largely disproven, so what is the cause? • MRI dur- ing attacks shows episodic cerebral oedema, dilatation of intrac erebral vessels, and  water diff usion not respecting vascular territories, so the primary event may be neurological. • PET suggests migraine is a subcortical disorder aff ecting the modulation of sensory processing • Magneto-encephalographic (MEG) stud- ies have shown resting (interictal) hyperexcitability at least in the visual cortex, suggesting a failure of inhibitory circuits. • Hormones play a role: the incidence of migraine in both pre-pubertal and post-menopausal women is equal to men, yet increases to 3:1 during reproductive years, with 50% of females reporting syn- chrony of migraines with the menstrual cycle. • Elevated levels of 5-HT metabo- lites in the urine of patients during migraine attacks was fi rst reported in 1972, and while its exact signifi cance is controversial, the effi cacy of triptans (5HT1B/1D agonists) support its role in migraine. • Triptans also inhibit release of substance P and pro-infl ammatory neuropeptides, blocking transmission from the trigeminal
