Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


controversial, the effi cacy of triptans (5HT1B/1D agonists) support its role in migraine. • Triptans also inhibit release of substance P and pro-infl ammatory neuropeptides, blocking transmission from the trigeminal nerve and implicating trigeminal nerve dysfunction. The bigger picture Vincent Van Gogh suf- fered from ‘sick headaches’, widely believed to have been migraines. Could his swirl- ing, cascading starry night (fi g 10.10) be a visual aura? Just as with the fragile mental health of Van Gogh, migraine often co-exists with other chronic condi- tions—and the combined negative impact on physi- cal and mental health is immense. Don’t treat each disease in isolation. Rather, Fig 10.10 ‘The Starry Night’ Vincent Van Gogh 1889 attempt to restore a good World History Archive/Ann Ronan Collection / Age relationship with the self— Fotostock and the recovery of the pur- pose of life through dialogue. This is the hardest but the most rewarding task, and may save some ears. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 445599 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN 460 Blackouts Causes of collapse ± loss of consciousness (LOC) are many; take a careful history (BOX). Vasovagal (neurocardiogenic) syncope Occurs due to refl ex bradycardia ± pe- ripheral vasodilation provoked by emotion, pain, or standing too long (it cannot occur when lying down). Onset is over seconds (not instantaneous), and is often pre- ceded by pre-syncopal symptoms, eg nausea, pallor, sweating, and narrowing of vis- ual fi elds. Brief clonic jerking of the limbs may occur due to cerebral hypoperfusion, but there is no tonic/clonic sequence. Urinary incontinence is uncommon, and there is no tongue-biting. Unconsciousness usually lasts for ~2min and recovery is rapid. Situation syncope Symptoms as for vasovagal syncope but with a clear precipi- tant: cough syncope occurs after a paroxysm of coughing; effort syncope is brought on by exercise; there is usually a cardiac cause, eg aortic stenosis, HCM; micturition syncope happens during or after urination: mostly men, at night. Carotid sinus syncope Hypersensitive baroreceptors cause excessive refl ex brady- cardia ± vasodilation on minimal stimulation (eg head-turning, shaving). Epilepsy (p490) Features suggestive of this diagnosis include: attacks when asleep or lying down; aura; identifi able triggers (eg TV); altered breathing; cyanosis; typical tonic–clonic movements; incontinence of urine; tongue-biting; prolonged post-ictal drowsiness, confusion, amnesia, and transient focal paralysis (Todd’s palsy). Stokes–Adams attacks Transient arrhythmias (eg bradycardia due to complete heart block) cause cardiac output and LOC. The patient falls to the ground (often with no warning
