Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


focal paralysis (Todd’s palsy). Stokes–Adams attacks Transient arrhythmias (eg bradycardia due to complete heart block) cause cardiac output and LOC. The patient falls to the ground (often with no warning except palpitations; injuries are common), and is pale, with a slow or absent pulse. Recovery is in seconds: the patient fl ushes, the pulse speeds up, and consciousness is regained. As with vasovagal syncope, anoxic clonic jerks may occur in prolonged LOC. Attacks may happen several times a day and in any posture. Other causes Hypoglycaemia: (p214) Tremor, hunger, and perspiration herald light- headedness or LOC; rare in non-diabetics. Orthostatic hypotension: Unsteadiness or LOC on standing from lying in those with inadequate vasomotor refl exes: the elderly; autonomic neuropathy (p505); antihypertensive medication; overdiuresis; multisys- tem atrophy (MSA; p494). Anxiety: Hyperventilation, tremor, sweating, tachycardia, paraesthesiae, light-headedness, and no LOC suggest a panic attack. Drop attacks: Sudden fall to the ground without LOC. Mostly benign and due to leg weakness but may also be caused by hydrocephalus, cataplexy, or narcolepsy. Factitious black- outs: Pseudoseizures, Münchausen’s (p706). Examination Cardiovascular, neurological. Measure BP lying and standing. Investigation All with recurrent syncope (or falls) need cardiac assessment—ur- gently if associated with palpitations, arrhythmias, 3rd-degree AV block, or pro- longed QT interval (p711). ECG ± 24h ECG (arrhythmia, long QT, eg Romano–Ward, p96); U&E, FBC, Mg2+, Ca2+, glucose; tilt-table test;3 EEG, sleep EEG; echocardiogram; CT/MRI brain; ABG if practical (PaCO2 in attacks suggests hyperventilation as the cause). While the cause is being elucidated, advise against driving (see p158). 3 Patient is subject to continuous ECG and BP monitoring while strapped to a table and moved rapidly from resting horizontal position to vertical. Induction of symptoms with inappropriate BP drop >30mmHg or bradycardia suggests neurally mediated syncope. Consider pacing. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 446600 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN Blackout history 461 It is vital to establish exactly what patients mean by ‘blackout’: loss of consciousness?—a fall to the ground without loss of consciousness?—vertigo or visual disturbance? Talk to the patient and witnesses and let them tell you as much as possible without prompting or leading. Ask: • Does the patient lose awareness? • Does the patient injure themselves? • Does the patient move? Are they stiff or fl oppy? (A tonic phase preceding clonic jerking points towards epilepsy.) • Is there incontinence? (More common in epilepsy, but can occur with syncope.) • Does their complexion change? (Pale/cyanosis suggests epilepsy; very pale/
