Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


phase preceding clonic jerking points towards epilepsy.) • Is there incontinence? (More common in epilepsy, but can occur with syncope.) • Does their complexion change? (Pale/cyanosis suggests epilepsy; very pale/ white suggests syncope or arrhythmia.) • Does the patient bite the side of their tongue? (Suggests epilepsy.) • Are there associated symptoms eg palpitations, sweats, pallor, chest pain, dysp- noea (see fi g 10.11)? • How long does the attack last? Before the attack: • Is there any warning?—Eg typical epileptic aura or cardiac pre-syncope. • In what circumstances do attacks occur? (If watching TV, consider epilepsy). • Can the patient prevent attacks? After the attack: • How much does the patient remember about the attack? • Is there muscle ache? (Suggests a tonic–clonic seizure.) • Is the patient confused or sleepy? (Suggests epilepsy.) Background to attacks: • When did they start? • Are they getting more frequent? • Is anyone else in the family getting them? Sudden arrhythmic death may leave no evidence at postmortem, or there may be hereditary cardiomyopathy (refer those with a relative who has had a sudden unexplained death <40yrs old). Fig 10.11 VT causing blackout in Brugada syndrome (p695). This patient had been treated with an implantable defi brillator (see p132). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 446611 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN 462 Vertigo and dizziness Is this vertigo? Complaints of ‘dizzy spells’ are very common and are used by patients to describe many diff erent sensations. True vertigo is a hallucination of movement, often rotatory, of the patient or their surroundings. In practice, simple ‘spinning’ is rare—the fl oor may tilt, sink, or rise. The key to diagnosis is to fi nd out ex- actly what the patient means by ‘dizzy:’ if this is not vertigo or if atypical symptoms are present consider other causes, eg if there is loss of awareness, think of epilepsy or syncope; if there is faintness, lightheadedness, or palpitations, think of anaemia, dysrhythmia, anxiety, or hypotension. Associated symptoms: Diffi culty walking or standing (may fall suddenly to the ground), relief on lying or sitting still (vertigo is almost always worsened by move- ment); nausea, vomiting, pallor, sweating. Associated hearing loss or tinnitus implies labyrinth or VIIIth nerve involvement. Causes Benign positional vertigo: Occurs on head movement due to disruption of debris in the semicircular canal of the ears (canalolithiasis). Fatiguable nystagmus on performing the Hallpike manoeuvre is diagnostic; Epley manoeuvres clear the debris (OHCS
