Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


hearing: whisper numbers in one ear while blocking the other. Ask your patient to repeat the number. Make sure that failure is not from misunderstanding. Tuning fork tests Rinne: Hold a vibrating tuning fork (512Hz or 256Hz) on the mas- toid to test bone conduction (BC). When the sound is no longer audible move it in front of the ear with the prongs perpendicular to the auditory canal to test air con- duction (AC). If there is no conductive defi cit (ie in normal hearing or sensorineural hearing loss), AC is better than BC and the patient will be able to hear the note again. This is a ‘Rinne positive’ result. If BC is better than AC (Rinne negative), this indicates conductive deafness >20dB. A false-negative may occur in severe sensorineural hear- ing loss (SNHL) as the contralateral cochlea picks up the sound by bone conduction. Weber: With the vibrating tuning fork on the vertex or forehead, ask the patient which ear the sound is louder in. Sound localizes to the aff ected ear with conductive loss (>10dB loss), to the contralateral ear in SNHL, and to the midline if both ears are normal (or if bilateral SNHL). Conductive deafness Causes: Wax (remove, eg by syringing with warm water af- ter softening with olive oil drops), otosclerosis, otitis media, or glue ear (OHCS p546). Chronic sensorineural deafness Often due to accumulated environmental noise toxicity, presbyacusis, or inherited disorders. Presbyacusis: Loss of acuity for high- frequency sounds starts before 30yrs old. We do not usually notice it until hearing of speech is aff ected. Hearing is most aff ected in the presence of background noise. Hearing aids are the usual treatment. Sudden sensorineural deafness Get an ENT opinion today (steroids may cure)! Causes: Noise exposure; gentamicin/other toxin; mumps; acoustic neuroma; MS; stroke; vasculitis; TB. Tests: ESR, FBC, LFT, pANCA, viral titres and TB (see BOX ‘Diagnostic tests for TB’, p394); evoked response audiometry; CXR; MRI; lymph node and naso- pharyngeal biopsy for culture. Tinnitus This ringing or buzzing in the ears is common, and may cause depression or insomnia. Investigate unilateral tinnitus fully to exclude an acoustic neuroma (p462). Causes Inner ear damage and hearing loss (leading to auditory cortex hyper-excit- ability), wax, excess noise, head injury, otitis media, post-stapedectomy, Ménière’s, anaemia (if pulsatile then think of carotid artery stenosis or dissection, AV fi stulae, and glomus jugulare tumours). Drugs: Aspirin
