Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


specifi c patterns (see later in topic) and ask these questions to help elicit the diagnosis: 1 Where is the lesion? • Are the legs fl accid or spastic? (ie LMN or UMN?) • Is there sensory loss?A sensory level usually means spinal cord disease. • Is there loss of bowel or bladder control? (Lesion more likely to be in the conus medullaris or cauda equina.) 2 What is the lesion? • Was onset sudden or rapidly progressive? This is an emer- gency; it suggests cord compression so get urgent help (see next paragraph). • Are there any signs of infection (eg tender spine, T°, WCC, ESR, CRP: extradural abscess)? Cord compression (See also p528.) Symptoms: Bilateral leg weakness (arm weak- ness—often less severe—suggests a cervical cord lesion, see p508) a sensory level ± preceding back pain (see p542). Bladder (and anal) sphincter involvement is late and manifests as hesitancy, frequency, and, later, as painless retention. Signs: Look for a motor, refl ex, and sensory level, with normal fi ndings above the level of the lesion, LMN signs at the level (especially in cervical lesions), and UMN signs below the level (but remember tone and refl exes are usually reduced in acute cord compression; OHCS p756). Causes: Secondary malignancy (breast, lung, prostate, thyroid, kidney) in the spine is commonest. Rarer: infection (epidural abscess), cervical disc prolapse, haematoma (warfarin), intrinsic cord tumour, atlanto–axial subluxation, myeloma.  : Transverse myelitis, MS, carcinomatous meningitis, cord vasculitis (PAN, syphilis), spinal artery thrombosis or aneurysm, trauma, Guillain–Barré syndrome (p702). In- vestigations: Do not delay imaging at any cost. Spinal x-rays are unreliable; MRI is the defi nitive modality. Biopsy or surgical exploration may be needed to identify the nature of any mass. Do a CXR (primary lung malignancy, lung secondaries, TB). Bloods: FBC, ESR, B12, syphilis serology, U&E, LFT, PSA, serum electrophoresis. Treatment: Give urgent dexamethasone in malignancy (p528) while considering more specifi c thera- py, eg radiotherapy or chemotherapy ± decompressive laminectomy; which is most appropriate depends on tumour type, quality of life, and likely prognosis. Epidural abscesses must be surgically decompressed and antibiotics given. Cauda equina and conus medullaris lesions The big diff erence between these lesions and those high up in the cord is that leg weakness is fl accid and arefl exic, not spastic and hyperrefl exic. Causes: As above, plus congenital lumbar disc disease and lumbosacral nerve lesions. Signs: Conus
