Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


cord is that leg weakness is fl accid and arefl exic, not spastic and hyperrefl exic. Causes: As above, plus congenital lumbar disc disease and lumbosacral nerve lesions. Signs: Conus medullaris lesions feature mixed UMN/ LMN signs, leg weakness, early urinary retention and constipation, back pain, sacral sensory disturbance and erectile dysfunction. Cauda equina lesions feature back pain and radicular pain down the legs; asymmetrical, atrophic, arefl exic paralysis of the legs; sensory loss in a root distribution; and sphincter tone; do PR. Other patterns of leg weakness Unilateral foot drop: DM, common peroneal nerve palsy, stroke, prolapsed disc, MS. Weak legs with no sensory loss: MND, polio, para sagittal meningioma (an exception to the rule that weak legs mean cord or distal lesion). Chronic spastic paraparesis: MS, cord primary malignancy/metastasis, MND, syrin- gomyelia, subacute combined degeneration of the cord (p334), hereditary spastic paraparesis, taboparesis (tertiary syphilis, see p412), histiocytosis X, parasites (eg schistosomiasis). Chronic fl accid paraparesis: Peripheral neuro pathy, myopathy. Absent knee jerks and extensor plantars: (Ie combined LMN or UMN signs.) Com- bined cervical and lumbar disc disease, conus medullaris lesions, MND, myeloradicu- litis, Friedreich’s ataxia, subacute combined degeneration of the cord, taboparesis.4 4 Tertiary syphilis (p412): in tabes dorsalis the aff erent pathways from muscle spindles are lost, with reduced tone and tendon refl exes (without weakness). Later, additional involvement of the pyramidal tracts causes taboparesis—a spastic paraparesis with the peculiar combination of extensor plantars (from the taboparesis) and absent tendon reflexes (from the tabes dorsalis). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 446666 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN Gait disorders 467 Spastic: Stiff , circumduction of legs ± scuffi ng of the toe of the shoes: UMN lesions. Extrapyramidal: Flexed posture, shuffl ing feet, slow to start, postural instability, eg Parkinson’s disease. Apraxic: Pathognomonic ‘gluing-to-the-fl oor’ on attempting walking or a wide- based unsteady gait with a tendency to fall, like a novice on an ice-rink. Seen in normal pressure hydroc ephalus and multi-infarct states. Ataxic: Wide-based; falls; cannot walk heel-to-toe. Caused by cerebellar lesions (eg MS, posterior fossa tumours, alcohol, phenytoin toxicity); proprioceptive sen- sory loss (eg sensory neuropathy,  B12). Often worse in the dark or with eyes closed. Myopathic: Waddling gait, cannot climb steps or stand from sitting due to hip girdle weakness. Psychogenic: Suspect if there is a bizarre gait not conforming to any pattern of organic gait disturbance and without any signs when examined on the couch. Tests
