Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


posturing (eg a touch of the fi nger to the jaw in spasmodic torticollis). Injection of botulinum toxin into the overactive muscles is usually eff ective. Acute dystonia: (fi g 10.14) May occur on starting many drugs, including neuro- leptics and some anti-emetics (eg metoclopramide, cyclizine). There is torticollis (head pulled back), trismus (oromandibular spasm), and/or oculogyric crisis (eyes drawn up). You may mistake this for tetanus or meningitis, but such reacti ons rapidly disappear after a dose of an antic holinergic, see p843. Fig 10.14 Oromandibular/oculogyric crisis in acute dystonia. Reprinted from Mayo Clinic Proceedings, 78(9), Ritter et al., ‘Ondansetron-induced multifocal encepha- lopathy’, 1150–2, 2003, with permission from Elsevier. St Vitus’s dance Throughout the middle ages, Europe was plagued by epidemics of ‘dancing mania’, in which affl icted individuals were described to have danced wildly, displaying strange contortions and convulsions until they collapsed from exhaustion. If the affl icted touched a relic of St Vitus they were miraculously cured: observing this, Paracelsus, 16th-century Swiss-German physician and philosopher, described the phenomenon of chorea Sancti Viti (‘St Vitus’s dance’). There may have been an in- fectious component, although mass hysteria induced by religious cults that swept across medieval Europe seems a more likely cause. Chorea was subsequently used as a general term for large-amplitude involuntary movements before be- ing further refi ned by physicians such as Sydenham (though he did not connect his eponymous chorea seen in rheumatic fever with an infectious trigger) and Charcot. Nowaways, a more frequent cause of involuntary movements with be- havioural disturbance is NMDA-receptor antibody encephalitis, the impact of which was documented in Susannah Cahalan’s excellent 2012 autobiography Brain on Fire: My Month of Madness. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 446699 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN 470 Stroke: clinical features and acute management Infarction or bleeding into the brain manifests with sudden-onset focal CNS signs. Someone in the UK has a stroke every 3.5 minutes; 1 in 4 of those will die within a year and half of survivors will have a permanent disability. Causes • Small vessel occlusion/cerebral microangiopathy or thrombosis in situ. • Cardiac emboli (AF; endocarditis; MI—see BOX ‘Cardiac causes of stroke’, p473). • Atherothromboembolism (eg from carotids). • CNS bleeds (BP, trauma, aneurysm rupture, anticoagulation, thrombolysis). Other causes: Consider in younger pa- tients: sudden BP drop by ≥40mmHg (most likely to aff ect the boundary zone be- tween vascular beds), carotid artery dissection (spontaneous, or from neck trauma
