Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


ulcers. (a) Stage 1: non-blanchable redness of intact skin, typically over a bony prominence. (b) Stage 2: partial thickness loss of dermis presenting as a shal- low open ulcer with a red/pink wound bed, without slough. May also present as an intact or open/ ruptured sero-sanguinous blister. (c) Stage 3: full thickness skin loss with visible subcutaneous fat. Bone, tendon, or muscle are not exposed. (d) Stage 4: full thickness tissue loss wth exposed bone, tendon, or muscle. Images (a) to (d) reproduced from Gosney et al., Oxford Desk Reference: Geriatric Medicine, 2012, with permission from Oxford University Press. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 447733 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN 474 Re-enablement after stroke Coordinated multidisciplinary care on a specialized stroke unit is essential, and leads to better patient outcomes. Rehabilitation must be started early post-stroke in order to maximize improvement and prevent complications related to immobility such as pressure sores, aspiration pneumonia, constipation, and contractures. Ongoing input after discharge consolidates inpatient gains and helps align the individual with their previous capability. It also helps with depression—both in the patient and their carer. Setting achievable goals and acknowledging the patient’s own agenda is key. Imperatives for re-enablement • Watch the patient swallow a small volume of water; if signs of aspiration (a cough or voice change) make nil by mouth until formal assessment by a speech therapist. Use IV fl uids, then semi-solids (eg jelly; avoid soups and crumbly food). Avoid early NG tube feeds; these may be needed to safeguard nutrition in those with swallowing problems that persist beyond the fi rst 2–3d. If swallowing fails to recover, consider benefi ts of enteral feeding tube placement (p759). Speech therapists skilled in assess- ing swallowing diffi culties are invaluable here. • Avoid further injury: minimize falls risk and take care when lifting the patient not to damage their shoulders. • Ensure good bladder and bowel care through frequent toileting. Avoid early cath- eterization which may prevent return to continence. • Position to minimize spasticity (occurs in ~40%). Get prompt physiotherapy. Splints and botulinum toxin injections are helpful for focal spasticity. • Monitor progress: eg measure time taken to sit up and transfer to chair. • Monitor mood: in pseudo-emotionalism/emotional lability (sobbing unprovoked by sorrow, from failure of cortical inhibition of the limbic system), tricyclics or fl uoxetine may help. • Engage the patient in their own recovery by making physiotherapy fun. Swimming (a hemiplegic arm may
