Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


of cortical inhibition of the limbic system), tricyclics or fl uoxetine may help. • Engage the patient in their own recovery by making physiotherapy fun. Swimming (a hemiplegic arm may be supported on a special fl oat), music, and video games are all enjoyable and  recovery through promoting cerebral reorganization. Constraint of the good arm may be helpful. Involve the carer/spouse with all aspects of care-giving. Good rehab saves lives. Tests Asking to point to a named part of the body tests perceptual function. Copy- ing matchstick patterns tests spatial ability. Dressing or copying a clock face tests for apraxia (p86). Picking out and naming easy objects from a pile tests for agnosia (acuity OK, but cannot mime use; guesses are way-out, semantically, and phonetically). Screen for depression (low mood; inability to feel pleasure or to concentrate). End-of-life decisions See p13. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 447744 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN Assessing dependence in daily life 475 Handicap entails inability to carry out social functions. ‘A disadvantage for a given individual, resulting from an impairment or disability, that limits or prevents the fulfi lment of a role.’ Two people with the same impairment (eg paralysed arm) may have diff erent disabilities (table 10.5, eg one may be able to dress but the other cannot). Disabilities are likely to determine quality of future life. Treatment is often best aimed at reducing disability, not curing disease. For example, Velcro® fasteners in place of buttons may enable a person to dress. Table 10.5 Barthel’s index of activities of daily living Bowels 0 Incontinent (or needs to be given enemas) 1 Occasional accidents (once a week) 2 Continent Bladder 0 Incontinent, or catheter inserted but unable to manage it 1 Occasional accidents (up to once per 24h) 2 Continent (for more than 7 days) Grooming 0 Needs help with personal care: face, hair, teeth, shaving 1 Independent (implements provided) Toilet use 0 Dependent 1 Needs some help but can do some things alone 2 Independent (on and off , wiping, dressing) Feeding 0 Unable 1 Needs help in cutting, spreading butter, etc. 2 Independent (food provided within reach) Transfer 0 Unable to get from bed to commode: the vital transfer to prevent the need for 24-hour nursing care 1 Major help needed (physical, 1–2 people), can sit 2 Minor help needed (verbal or physical) 3 Independent Mobility 0 Immobile 1 Wheelchair-independent, including corners, etc. 2 Walks with help
