Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


1 Major help needed (physical, 1–2 people), can sit 2 Minor help needed (verbal or physical) 3 Independent Mobility 0 Immobile 1 Wheelchair-independent, including corners, etc. 2 Walks with help of one person (verbal or physical) 3 Independent Dressing 0 Dependent 1 Needs help but can do about half unaided 2 Independent (including buttons, zips, laces, etc.) Stairs 0 Unable 1 Needs help (verbal, physical, carrying aid) 2 Independent up and down Bath/shower 0 Dependent 1 Independent (must get in and out unaided and wash self) Mahoney FI, Barthel DW: Functional evaluation: the Barthel Index. Maryland State Medical Journal. 1965; 14:61–65. Barthel’s paradox The more we contemplate Barthel’s eulogy of independence, the more we see it as a mirage refl ecting a greater truth about human aff airs: there is no such thing as independence—only interdependence—and in fostering this interdependence lies our true vocation: No man is an Island, intire of it selfe; every man is a peece of the Continent, a part of the maine; if a Clod bee washed away by the Sea, Europe is the lesse, as well as if a promontorie were, as well as if a Mannor of thy friends or of thine owne were. Any man’s death diminishes me, because I am involved in mankinde; And therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls: It tolls for thee. John Donne 1572–1631; Meditation XVII. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 447755 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN 476 Transient ischaemic attack (TIA) This is an ischaemic (usually embolic) neurological event with symptoms lasting <24h (often much shorter).  Without intervention, more than 1 in 12 patients will go on to have a stroke within a week, so prompt management is imperative. Signs Specifi c to the arterial territory involved (p450). Amaurosis fugax occurs when the retinal artery is occluded, causing unilateral progressive vision loss ‘like a curtain descending’. Global events (eg syncope, dizziness) are not typical of TIAs. At- tacks may be single or many; multiple highly stereotyped attacks (‘crescendo’ TIAs) suggest a critical intra cranial stenosis (commonly the superior division of the MCA). Causes (See p470.) • Atherothromboembolism from the carotid is the chief cause: listen for bruits (though not a sensitive test). • Cardioembolism: mural thrombus post-MI or in AF, valve disease, prosthetic valve (p473). • Hyperviscosity: eg poly- cythaemia, sickle-cell anaemia, myeloma. • Vasculitis is a rare, non-embolic cause of TIA symptoms (eg cranial arteritis, PAN, SLE, syphilis,
