Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


x it’—usually, risks of pre- ventive intervention outweigh any benefi ts, except perhaps in •young patients (more years at risk, and surgery is twice as hazardous if >45yrs old) who have •aneurysms >7mm in diameter, especially if located at the •junction of the inter- nal carotid and the posterior communicating cerebral artery, or at the •rostral basilar artery bifurcation, and especially if there is •uncontrolled hypertension or a •past history of bleeds. Data from the 2003 International Study of Unruptured Intracranial Aneurysms (ISUIA) show that relative risk of rupture for an aneurysm 7–12mm across is 3.3 compared with aneurysms <7mm across; if the diameter is >12mm, the relative risk is 17. Fig 10.17 CT images can be manipulated to Fig 10.18 Blood from a ruptured aneury sm oc- show only high-density structures such as cupies the interhemispheric fi ssure (top arrow), bones and arteries containing contrast. Here is a crescentic intracerebral area presumably near a middle cerebral artery aneurysm. the aneurysm (2nd arrow), the basal cisterns, We thank Prof. Peter Scally for these CT images and the lateral ventricles (temporal horns), and the the commentaries on them. 4th ventricle (bottom arrow). We thank Prof. Peter Scally for these CT images and the commentaries on them. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 447799 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN 480 Intracranial venous thrombosis (IVT) Thrombosis of the cerebral sinuses or veins causes cerebral infarction, though much less commonly than arterial disease. Seizures are common and focal; they can com- plicate diagnosis and post-ictal drowsiness may impair GCS assessment. Although ~80% will make a good functional recovery, death is mainly due to transtentorial herniation from mass eff ect or oedema.9 Dural venous sinus thrombosis Most commonly sagittal sinus thrombosis (fi gs 10.19, 10.20; 47% of all IVT) or transverse sinus thrombosis (35%). Sagittal sinus thrombosis often coexists if other sinuses are thrombosed. Symptom onset is gradu- al (over days or weeks). Features are dependent on the sinus aff ected: • Sagittal sinus: Heada che, vomiting, seizures, vision, papilloedema. • Transverse sinus: Headache ± mastoid pain, focal CNS signs, seizures, papilloedema. • Sigmoid sinus: Cerebellar signs, lower cranial nerve palsies. • Inferior petrosal sinus: Vth and VIth cranial nerve palsies, with temporal and retro-orbital pain (Gradenigo’s syndrome,. suggesting otitis media is the cause). • Cavernous sinus: Often due to spread from facial pustules or foll iculitis, causing headache, chemosis, oedematous eyelids, proptosis, painful ophthalmoplegia, fever. Cortical vein thrombosis (CVT) Usually occurs
