Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


the cause). • Cavernous sinus: Often due to spread from facial pustules or foll iculitis, causing headache, chemosis, oedematous eyelids, proptosis, painful ophthalmoplegia, fever. Cortical vein thrombosis (CVT) Usually occurs with a sinus thrombus as it extends into the cortical veins, causing infarction in a venous territory (fi g 10.21). These infarcts give rise to stroke-like focal symptoms that develop over days. There are often seizures, and an associated headache which may come on suddenly (thunderclap headache). Causes Numerous, including anything that promotes a hypercoagulable state (p374). Common causes: Pregnancy/puerperium, combined OCP, head injury, dehydration, blood dyscrasias, tumours (local invasion/pressure), extracranial malignancy (hyperco- agulability), recent LP. Other causes: Infection (meningitis, abscesses, otitis media, cer- ebral malaria, TB), Drugs (eg antifi brinolytics, androgens), SLE, vasculitis, Crohn’s or UC. Diff erential diagnosis Subarachnoid haemorrhage, meningitis, encephalitis, in- tracranial abscess, arterial infarction. Investigations Exclude subarachnoid haemorrhage (if thunderclap headache, p478) and meningitis (p822). Bloods: Thrombophilia screen. Imaging: CT/MRI venog- raphy may show the absence of a sinus (fi g 10.19), though an absent transverse sinus can be a normal variant. MRI T2-weighted gradient echo sequences can visualize thrombus directly (fi g 10.20), and also identify haemorrhagic infarction. CT may be normal early, but show a fi lling defect at ~1wk (delta sign). LP (if no CI): raised open- ing pressure. CSF may be normal, or show RBCS and xanthochromia. Management Seek expert help. Anticoagulation with heparin or LMWH and then warfarin (INR 2–3) may benefi t even if there is secondary cerebral haemorrhage (un- less otherwise CI). If there is deterioration despite adequate anticoagulation, endo- vascular thrombolysis or mechanical thrombectomy may provide limited benefi t (but not in those with large infarcts and impending herniation). ICP requires prompt at- tention (p830); decompressive hemicraniectomy may prevent impending herniation. 9 Predictors of poor prognosis include: GCS score on admission <9, deep CVT location, CNS infection, malig- nancy, intracranial haemorrhage, mental status abnormality, age >37 years, and . __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 448800 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN 481 Fig 10.19 This magnetic resonance venogram (MRV) could look normal at fi rst glance: the hardest thing to see in imaging is often that which is not there. Much of the superior sagittal sinus is not seen because it is fi lled with clot—a superior sagittal sinus thrombo- sis. The arrows point to where it should be seen. Posteriorly, the irregularity of the vessel indicates non-occlusive clot. Image and commentary courtesy of
