Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


with clot—a superior sagittal sinus thrombo- sis. The arrows point to where it should be seen. Posteriorly, the irregularity of the vessel indicates non-occlusive clot. Image and commentary courtesy of Prof. P. Scally. Fig 10.20 MRI showing thrombus (arrows) in the sagittal sinus (sagittal T1-weighted image, LEFT), and in the right transverse sinus (axial T2-weighted image, RIGHT). Often more than one sinus is involved. Image courtesy of Dr David Werring. Fig 10.21 Venous territories (compare with arterial territories on p451). SSS—superior sagittal sinus; TS—transverse sinus; SV—Sylvian veins; ICV—internal cortical veins. There is much greater variation in venous anatomy between individuals than there is in arterial anatomy, so this diagram is only a rough guide. The key point is to realize that infarction that crosses boundaries between arterial territories may be venous in origin. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 448811 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN 482 Subdural haematoma Consider this very treatable condition in all whose conscious level fl uctuates, and also in those having an ‘evolving stroke’, especially if on anticoagulants. Bleeding is from bridging veins between cortex and venous sinuses (vulnerable to decelera- tion injury), resulting in accumulating haematoma between dura and arachnoid. This gradually raises ICP, shifting midline structures away from the side of the clot and, if untreated, eventual tentorial herniation and coning. Most subdurals are from trauma but the trauma is often forgotten as it was so minor or so long ago (up to 9 months). It can also occur without trauma (eg ICP; dural metasta ses). The elderly are most susceptible, as brain atrophy makes bridging veins vulnerable. Other risk factors: falls (epileptics, alcoholics); anticoagulation. Symptoms Fluctuating level of consciousness (seen in 35%) ± insidious physical or intellectual slowing, sleepiness, headache, personality change, and unsteadiness. Signs ICP (p830), seizures. Localizing neurological symptoms (eg unequal pupils, hemiparesis) occur late, often >1 month after the injury. Diff erentials Stroke, dementia, CNS masses (eg tumours, abscesses). Imaging (fi g 10.22) CT/MRI shows clot ± midline shift (but beware bilateral isodense clots). Look for crescent-shaped collection of blood over 1 hemisphere. The sickle- shape diff erent iates subdural blood from extradural haemorrhage. Management Reverse clotting abnormalities urgently. Surgical management de- pends on the size of the clot, its chronicity, and the clinical picture: generally those >10mm or with midline shift >5mm need evacuating (via craniotomy or burr hole washout). Address the cause of the trauma (eg falls, abuse). Extradural (epidural) haematoma  Beware deteriorating consciousness
