Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


>10mm or with midline shift >5mm need evacuating (via craniotomy or burr hole washout). Address the cause of the trauma (eg falls, abuse). Extradural (epidural) haematoma  Beware deteriorating consciousness after any head injury that initially produced no loss of consciousness or after initial drowsiness post injury seems to have re- solved. This lucid interval pattern is typical of extradural bleeds. Cause Suspect after any traumatic skull fracure. Often due to a fractured temporal or parietal bone causing laceration of the middle meningeal artery and vein, typically after trauma to a temple just lateral to the eye. Any tear in a dural venous sinus will also result in an extradural bleed. Blood accumulates between bone and dura. Clinical features The lucid interval may last a few hours to a few days before a bleed declares itself by GCS from rising ICP. Increasingly severe headache, vomit- ing, confusion, and seizures follow, ± hemiparesis with brisk refl exes and an up- going plantar. If bleeding contin ues, the ipsilateral pupil dilates, coma deepens, bilateral limb weakness develops, and breathing becomes deep and irregular (brainstem compression). Death follows a period of coma and is due to respiratory arrest. Bradycardia and BP are late signs. Diff erentials Epilepsy, carotid dissection, carbon monoxide poisoning. Tests CT (fi g 10.23) shows a haematoma (often biconvex/lens-shaped; the blood forms a more rounded shape compared with the sickle-shaped subdural haemato- ma as the tough dural attachments to the skull keep it more localized). Skull X-ray may be normal or show fracture lines crossing the course of the middle meningeal vessels. Lumbar puncture is contraindicated. Management Stabilize and transfer urgently (with skilled medical and nursing escorts) to a neurosurgical unit for clot evacuation ± ligation of the bleeding ves- sel. Care of the airway in an unconscious patient and measures to ICP often re- quire intubation and ventilation (+ mannitol IVI, p831). Prognosis Excellent if diagnosis and operation early. Poor if coma, pupil abnor- malities, or decerebrate rigidity are present pre-op. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 448822 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN Fig 10.22 This image explains the cause 483 as well as the patho logy. On the patient’s left, cerebral sulci are prominent and prior to this adverse event would have been even larger. The brain had shrunk within the skull as a result of atherosclerosis, and poor perfusion, leaving large suba rachnoid spaces. A simple, quick rotation of the head is enough to
