Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


The brain had shrunk within the skull as a result of atherosclerosis, and poor perfusion, leaving large suba rachnoid spaces. A simple, quick rotation of the head is enough to tear a bridging vein, causing this acute subdural haematoma. We thank Prof. Peter Scally for these CT images and commentary. Fig 10.23 The blood (high attenu ation, fusiform or biconvex collection) on the right side is limited anteriorly by the coro- nal suture and posteriorly by the lambdoid suture. This is therefore an extradural haem at oma. The low-attenuation CSF den- sity collection on the left is causing scallop- ing of the overlying bone. It is in the typical location of an arachnoid cyst; an incidental fi nding of a congenital abnorm ality. We thank Prof. Peter Scally for these CT images and commentary. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 448833 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN 484 Delirium (acute confusional state) Delirium10 aff ects up to 50% of inpatients >65y, and is associated with a longer ad- mission, more complications, and higher mortality. Look for an underlying cause in any acute fl uctuating, baffl ing behaviour change; it may be an early indication of treatable pathology (eg UTI). Clinical features Globally impaired cognition, perception, and consciousness which develops over hours/days, characterized by a marked memory defi cit, dis- ordered or disorientated thinking, and reversal of the sleep–wake cycle. Some pa- tients experience tactile or visual hallucinations. Delirium can be: •hyperactive, with restlessness, mood lability, agitation, or aggression •hypoactive in which the patient becomes slow and withdrawn or •mixed. Hypoactive and mixed delirium are much harder to recognize: it is crucial to compare current behaviour to the patient’s baseline (see BOX). Risk factors >65y, dementia/previous cognitive impairment, hip fracture, acute ill- ness, psychological agitation (eg pain). Causes • Surgery/post-GA. • Systemic infection: pneumonia, UTI, malaria, wounds, IV lines. • Intracranial infection or head injury. • Drugs/drug withdrawal: opiates, levodopa, sedatives, recreational. • Alcohol withdrawal (2–5d post-admission; LFTS, MCV; history of alcohol abuse). • Metabolic: uraemia, liver failure, Na+ or glucose, Hb, malnutrition (beriberi, p268). • Hypoxia: respiratory or cardiac failure. • Vascular: stroke, myocardial infarction. • Nutritional: thiamine, nicotinic acid, or B12 defi ciency. Diff erentials Dementia (see BOX), anxiety, epilepsy: non-convulsive status epi- lepticus is an underdiagnosed cause of impaired cognition and odd behaviour: con- sider an EEG. Primary mental illness (eg schizophrenia) can also mimic delirium, but this is rare on the wards (especially if no
