Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


cause of impaired cognition and odd behaviour: con- sider an EEG. Primary mental illness (eg schizophrenia) can also mimic delirium, but this is rare on the wards (especially if no past history). Tests Look for the cause (eg UTI, pneumonia, MI): do FBC, U&E, LFT, blood glucose, ABG, septic screen (urine dipstick, CXR, blood cultures); also consider ECG, malaria fi lms, LP, EEG, CT. Management As well as identifying and treating the underlying cause, aim to:3 • Reorientate the patient: explain where they are and who you are at each encounter. Hunt down hearing aids/glasses. Visible clocks/calendars may help. • Encourage visits from friends and family. • Monitor fl uid balance and encourage oral intake . Be vigilant for constipation. • Mobilize and encourage physical activity. • Practise sleep hygeine: restrict daytime napping, minimize night-time disturbance. • Avoid or remove catheters, IV cannulae, monitoring leads and other devices (they increase infection risk and may get pulled out). • Watch out for infection and physical discomfort/distress. • Review medication and discontinue any unnecessary agents. Only use sedation if the patient is a risk to their own/other patients’ safety (never use physical restraints). Consider haloperidol 0.5–2mg, or chlorpromazine 50–100mg, PO if they will take it, IM if not (p15). Wait 20min to judge eff ect—further doses can be given if needed. NB: avoid chlorp romazine in the elderly and in alcohol withdrawal (p280); avoid antipsychotics in those with Parkinson’s disease or Lewy body dementia. Be aware that delirium may persist beyond the duration of the original illness by several weeks in the elderly. Do not assume this must be dementia—provide support and reassess 1–2 months later. 10 Delirium, from the Latin de (from) and lira (ridge between furrows), meaning ‘out of one’s furrow’. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 448844 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN Delirium vs dementia 485 One is often mistaken for the other, yet perhaps the interconnectedness of these two conditions is greater than we realize: not only is dementia the leading risk factor for delirium, but delirium itself confers a greater risk of subsequently de- veloping dementia.4 It is likely that this is due to a number of factors: delirium is a marker of vulnerability of the brain, and may also emphasize previously unrecog- nized dementia symptoms. Furthermore, there may be direct causation through the noxious insults incurred during an episode of delirium, which can lead to per- manent neuronal damage. In distinguishing the two
