Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


dementia symptoms. Furthermore, there may be direct causation through the noxious insults incurred during an episode of delirium, which can lead to per- manent neuronal damage. In distinguishing the two conditions (not always an easy task) the presence of inattention, distractibility, and disorganized thinking will all point you towards delirium. But the fundamental question is ‘Has there been an acute change from the patient’s cognitive baseline?’ Family or carer collateral reports are invalu- able, but may not always be available. Document cognition in all patients >65y admitted to hospital (eg AMTs, p64, many admission proformas allow for this). This will then allow you to compare their admission score with subsequent assess- ments and track any improvements, deteriorations, or fl uctuations in cognition throughout the admission. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 448855 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN 486 Dementia A neurodegenerative syndrome with progressive decline in several cognitive do- mains. The initial presentation is usually of memory loss over months or years (look for other causes if over days/weeks). Prevalence increases with age: 20% of people >80yrs are known to have dementia, yet probably only half of cases are diagnosed. Diagnosis Is made by: History from the patient with a thorough collateral nar- rative—ask about the timeline of decline and the domains aff ected. Non-cognitive symptoms such as agitation, aggression, or apathy indicate late disease.5 Cognitive testing: Use a validated dementia screen such as the AMTS (p64) or similar, plus short tests of executive function and language. Carry out a mental state examination to identify anxiety, depression, or hallucinations. Examination may identify a physical cause, risk factors (eg for vascular dementia), or parkinsonism. Medication review is important to exclude drug-induced cognitive impairment. Investigations Look for reversible/organic causes: TSH/B12/folate (treat low- normals, p334), thiamine (eg alcohol), Ca2+. Check MSU, FBC, ESR, U&E, LFT, and glu- cose. An MRI (preferred to CT) can identify other reversible pathologies (eg subdural haematoma, p482; normal-pressure hydrocephalus11), as well as underlying vascular damage or structural pathology. Functional imaging (FDG, PET, SPECT) may help de- lineate subtypes where diagnosis is not clear. Consider EEG in: suspected delirium, frontotemporal dementia, CJD, or a seizure disorder. If clinically indicated then check autoantibodies, syphilis, HIV, CJD, or other rare causes (see later in topic). Subtypes • Alzheimer’s disease (AD): See p488. • Vascular dementia: (~25%.) Cu- mulative eff ect of many small strokes: sudden onset and stepwise deterioration is characteristic (but often hard to recognize). Look for
