Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


disease (AD): See p488. • Vascular dementia: (~25%.) Cu- mulative eff ect of many small strokes: sudden onset and stepwise deterioration is characteristic (but often hard to recognize). Look for evidence of arteriopathy (BP, past strokes, focal CNS signs). Do not use acetylcholinesterase inhibitors or me- mantine in these patients. • Lewy body dementia: (15–25%.) Fluctuating cognitive impairment, det ailed visual hallucinations, and later, parkinsonism (p494). Histol- ogy is characterized by Lewy bodies (eosinophilic intracytoplasmic inclusion bodies) in brainstem and neocortex. Avoid using antipsychotics in Lewy body dementia (risk of SE, see p489). • Fronto-temporal dementia: Frontal and temporal atrophy with loss of >70% of spindle neurons. Patients display executive impairment; be- havioural/personality change; disinhibition; hyperorality, stereotyped behaviour, and emotional unconcern. Episodic memory and spatial orientation are preserved until later stages. Pick’s disease refers to the few fronto-temporal dementia patients who have Pick inclusion bodies on histology (spherical clusters of tau-laden neurons). Other causes Alcohol/drug abuse; repeated head trauma; pellagra (p268), Whip- ple’s disease (p716); Huntington’s (p702); CJD (p696); Parkinson’s (p494); HIV; crypto- coccosis (p408); familial autosomal dominant Alzheimer’s; CADASIL (p470). Management Refer suspected or diagnosed dementia to integrated memory ser- vices for further assessment and management. Medication: (p489). Avoid drugs that impair cognition (eg neuroleptics, sedatives, tricyclics). Non-pharmacological inter- ventions: Non-cognitive symptoms (eg agitation) may respond to measures such as aromatherapy, multisensory stimulation, massage, music, and animal-assisted therapy. Other considerations • Depression: Common. Try an SSRI (eg citalopram 10–20mg OD) or, if severe, mirtazapine (15–45mg at night if eGFR >40). Cognitive behavioural therapy can help with social withdrawal and catastrophic thinking. • Capacity: Can the patient make decisions regarding medical or fi nancial aff airs? Wherever possible, allow them to. Suggest making an advanced directive or appointing a Lasting Power of Attorney in the early stages of the disease. 11 Dilated ventr icles without enlarged sulci. Signs: gait apraxia, incontinence, de m entia; CSF shunts help. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 448866 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN Who will care for the carers? 487 Our ageing population and improvements in medicine mean that we not only have an increasing number of people with dementia in the UK, but that those people are living longer with the disease in more advanced stages. Their needs become more complex and they become increasingly dependent. Currently, informal (mostly fam- ily) carers of people with dementia save the UK £11 billion a year. Yet this is not an easy task:
