Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


complex and they become increasingly dependent. Currently, informal (mostly fam- ily) carers of people with dementia save the UK £11 billion a year. Yet this is not an easy task: most dementia suff erers display behavioural or psychological symptoms, which can be particularly distressing for the carer. Carer stress is inevitable and causes morbidity and mortality. Ameliorate this with: • A care coordinator (via Social Services or the local Old Age Community Mental Healthcare Team); vital to coordinate the various teams and services available: • Laundry services for soiled linen • Attendance allowance • Car badge giving priority parking • Respite care in hospital • Help from occupational therapist,district • Council tax rebate (forms nurses, and community psychiatric nurses from local council offi ce). • Day services can be invaluable for stimulating patients and providing regular, much-needed breaks for carers. • Moral support Support groups, telephone helplines, and charities can all ease the burden, eg UK Alzheimer’s Disease Society. • Combatting challenging behaviour: First rule out pain, infection, and depres- sion. Then consider trazodone (50–300mg at night) or lorazepam (0.5–1mg/12–24h PO). Haloperidol (0.5–4mg) can be useful in the short term. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 448877 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN 488 Alzheimer’s disease (AD) This leading cause of dementia is the big neuropsychiatric disorder of our times, dominating the care of the elderly and the lives of their families who give up work, friends, and ways of life to support relatives through the long fi nal years as they exit into their ‘worlds of preoccupied emptiness’. Suspect AD in adults >40yrs with per- sistent,12 progressive, and global cognitive impairment: visuo-spatial skill, memory, verbal abilities, and executive function (planning) are all aff ected, unlike other de- mentias which may aff ect certain domains but not others (identify which with neu- ropsychometric tests). There is also anosognosia—a lack of insight into the problems engendered by the disease, eg missed appointments, misunderstood conversations or plots of fi lms, and mishandling of money. Later there may be irritability; mood dis- turbance (depression or euphoria); behavioural change (eg aggression, wandering, disinhibition); psychosis (hallucinations or delusions); agnosia (may not recognize self in the mirror). There is no standard natural history. Cognitive impairment is progressive, but non-cognitive symptoms may come and go over months. Eventually many patients become sedentary, taking little interest in anything. Cause Environmental and genetic factors both play a role. Accumulation of -amyloid peptide, a degradation product of amyloid
