Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


over months. Eventually many patients become sedentary, taking little interest in anything. Cause Environmental and genetic factors both play a role. Accumulation of -amyloid peptide, a degradation product of amyloid precursor protein, results in progressive neuronal damage, neurofi br illary tangles, numbers of amyloid plaques, and loss of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine (fi g 10.24). Neuronal loss is selective— the hippocampus, amygdala, temporal neocortex, and subcortical nuclei are most vulnerable. Vascular eff ects are also important—95% of AD patients show evidence of vascular dementia. Risk factors 1st-degree relative with AD; Down’s syndrome (in which AD is in- evitable, often <40yrs); homozygosity for apolipoprotein E (ApoE) E4 allele (see BOX ‘Genetics and the future’); PICALM, CL1 & CLU variants; vascular risk factors (BP, dia- betes, dyslipidaemia, homocysteine, AF); physical/cognitive activity; depression; loneliness (risk ≈ 2; simply living alone is not a risk factor); smoking. Management See p486 for a general approach to management in dementia. • Refer to a specialist memory service. • Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (see BOX ‘Pharmacological treatment’). • BP control (in heart failure there is a 2x risk of AD; extra risk halves with BP control). Prevention in the context of AD’s time-course: Changes in CSF -amyloid are seen ~25yrs before onset of unequivocal symptoms (USy) and its deposition is detected 15yrs before USy. CSF tau protein and brain atrophy are also detected 15yrs before USy. Cerebral hypometabolism and impaired episodic memory occur 10yrs before USy. Global cognitive impairment occurs 5yrs before USy. Prevention will probably be most eff ective before any of this starts—though there is currently insuffi cient evidence to recommend any specifi c interventions (BOX ‘Genetics and the future’). Ultimately, there is no simple relationship between brain structure, neurofi brillary tangles, and function. Prognosis Mean survival = 7yrs from USy. 12 ‘Enduring’ doesn’t mean unfl uctuating: cognition comes and goes, allowing poetic insights, as in Iris Murdoch’s poignant self-diagnosis: ‘I am sailing into the dark’. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 448888 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN Pharmacological treatment of cognitive decline 489 There is overlap between Lewy body dementia, AD, and Parkinson’s disease (PD), complicating treatment decisions: L-dopa (p495) can precipitate delusions, and antipsychotic drugs worsen PD. Rivastigmine may help all three. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors: Donepezil, rivastigmine, and galan- tamine are all mod estly eff ective in treating AD and are recommended by NICE.6 There is also some evidence for their effi cacy in the dementia of Parkinson’s disease, and rivastigmine may improve
