Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


estly eff ective in treating AD and are recommended by NICE.6 There is also some evidence for their effi cacy in the dementia of Parkinson’s disease, and rivastigmine may improve behavioural symptoms in Lewy body dementia—though none should be used in mild disease and they should be dis- continued if there is no worthwile eff ect on symptoms. Doses: • Donepezil: initially 5mg PO, eg doubled after 1 month. • Riva stigm ine: 1.5mg/12h initially,  to 3–6mg/12h. Patches are also available. • Galantamine: initially 4mg/12h,  to 8–12mg/12h PO. The cholinergic eff ects of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors may exacerbate pep- tic ulcer disease and heart block. Ask about symptoms and do an ECG fi rst. Antiglutamatergic treatment: Memantine (an NMDA antagonist, p449) is reason- ably eff ective in late-stage AD, and is recommended in patients with severe disease or those with moderate disease in which AChE inhibitors are not tolerated/CI. Dose: 5mg/24h initially,  by 5mg/d weekly to 10mg/12h. SE: hallucinations, confusion, hypertonia, hypersexuality. Antipsychotics: Consider in severe, non-cognitive symptoms only (eg psychosis or extreme agitation). Possible increased risk of stroke/TIA so discuss risks and as- sess cerebrovascular risk factors. Avoid in mild-to-moderate: Lewy body dementia (risk of neuroleptic sensitivity reactions), AD, and vascular dementia. Vitamin supplementation: Trials of dietary and vitamin supplements have been mixed and disappointing. Perhaps the best evidence exists for vitamin E (2000IU OD) which may confer a modest benefi t in delaying functional progression in mild to moderate AD, but with no eff ect on cognitive performance. Genetics and the future Possession of the APOE4 allele on chromosome 19 is the leading genetic cause of AD; homozygosity increases risk of developing the disease 12x. Yet while identifying this risk could enable a person to make lifestyle changes, there is little else to be done but anticipate one’s impending cognitive decline (just one of the dilemmas raised by genetic testing). While the proteins that make up the plaques and neurofi - brillary tangles seen in AD were identifi ed in the early 1980s, progress has since been slow. So much so that in 2013, world leaders pledged to have a drug that would halt dementia within the next 10 years. Now a second-generation tau aggregation in- hibitor called LMTX just might do the job, having shown success in phase III clinical trials in patients with mild/moderate AD, with clinical improvement and a slowing of atrophy on
