Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


hibitor called LMTX just might do the job, having shown success in phase III clinical trials in patients with mild/moderate AD, with clinical improvement and a slowing of atrophy on MRI. Perhaps in the imminent future, identifying those at greater risk of developing AD through genetic testing will have a role. Fig 10.24 Normal neuron (left) and one exhibiting senile plaques and neurofi brillary tan- gles (right). The corresponding changes on functional neuroim- aging are also shown. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 448899 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN 490 Epilepsy: diagnosis Epilepsy is a recurrent tendency to spontaneous, intermittent, abnormal elec trical activity in part of the brain, manifesting as seizures. Convulsions are the motor signs of elect rical discharges. Elements of a seizure Some patients may experience a preceding prodrome last- ing hours or days in which there may be a change in mood or behaviour. An aura implies a focal seizure, often, but not necessarily, from the temporal lobe. It may be a strange feeling in the gut, an experience such as déjà vu or strange smells or fl ashing lights. Post-ictally there may be headache, confusion, and myalgia; or temporary weakness after a focal seizure in the motor cortex (Todd’s palsy, p712), or dysphasia following a focal seizure in the temporal lobe. Causes ⅔ are idiopathic. Structural: Cortical scarring (eg head injury years be- fore onset), developmental (eg dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumour or corti- cal dysgenesis), space-occupying lesion, stroke, hippocampal sclerosis (eg after a febrile convulsion), vascular malformations. Others: Tuberous sclerosis, sarcoido- sis, SLE, PAN, antibodies to voltage-gated potassium channels. Diagnosis Can be diffi cult due to the heterogenous nature of the disease (there are >40 diff erent types of epilepsy). NICE estimate 5–30% of people with ‘epilepsy’ have been wrongly diagnosed.  All patients with a seizure must be referred for specialist assessment and investigation in <2 wks. Take a thorough history: Including a detailed description from a witness. Ask spe- cifi cally about tongue-biting and a slow recovery. If this is a fi rst seizure, enquire about past funny turns/odd behaviour. Déjà vu and odd episodic feelings of fear may well be relevant. Are there any triggers (eg alcohol, stress, fl ickering lights/TV)? Triggered attacks tend to recur. Establish the type of seizure: See BOX ‘Seizure classifi cation’.7 NB: if a seizure be- gins with focal features, it is a partial seizure, however rapidly it then generalizes. Don’t forget non-epileptic attack disorder
