Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


seizure: See BOX ‘Seizure classifi cation’.7 NB: if a seizure be- gins with focal features, it is a partial seizure, however rapidly it then generalizes. Don’t forget non-epileptic attack disorder ( = ‘pseudo’ seizures—psychogenic): this is not uncommon. (Suspect if seizures have a gradual onset, prolonged duration, and abrupt termination and are accompanied by closed eyes ± resistance to eye opening, rapid breathing, fl uctuating motor activity, and episodes of motionless unrespon- siveness. CNS exam, CT, MRI, and EEG are normal. It may coexist with true epilepsy.) Rule out provoking causes: Most people would have a seizure given suffi cient prov- ocation (eg refl ex anoxic seizures in faints) but would not be classed as epileptic: only 3–10% of provoked seizures recur; generally when the provocation is irreversible. Causes: trauma; stroke; haemorrhage; ICP; alcohol or benzodiazepine withdrawal; metabolic disturbance (hypoxia, Na+ , Ca2+, glucose, uraemia, liver disease); in- fection (eg meningitis, encephalitis); T°; drugs (tricyclics, cocaine). Unprovoked seizures have a recur rence rate of 30–50%. Investigations Look for provoking causes. Consider an EEG: it cannot exclude epi- lepsy and can be falsely +ve, so don’t do one if simple syncope is the likely diagno- sis. Only do emergency EEGS if non-convulsive status is the problem. Other tests: MRI (structural lesions); drug levels (if on anti-epileptics: is the patient compli- ant?); drugs screen; LP (eg if infection suspected). Counselling After any ‘fi t’, advise about dangers, eg swimming, driving, heights until the diagnosis is known; then give individualized counselling on employment, sport, insurance, and conception (OHCS p28). The patient must contact DVLA and avoid driving until seizure-free for >1yr (p159). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 449900 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN Seizure classifi cation 491 Focal seizures Originating within networks linked to one hemisphere and often seen with underlying structural disease. Various subclasses include: • Without impairment of consciousness: (Previously described as ‘simple’.) Awareness is unimpaired, with focal motor, sensory (olfactory, visual, etc.), au- tonomic, or psychic symptoms. No post-ictal symptoms. • With impairment of consciousness: (Previously described as ‘complex’.)Aware- ness is impaired—either at seizure onset or following a simple partial aura. Most commonly arise from the temporal lobe, in which post-ictal confusion is a fea- ture. • Evolving to a bilateral, convulsive seizure: (Previously described as ‘secondary generalized’.) In ⅔ of patients with partial seizures, the electrical disturbance, which start s focally, spreads widely, causing a generalized seizure, which is typi- cally convulsive. Generalized seizures Originating
