Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


‘secondary generalized’.) In ⅔ of patients with partial seizures, the electrical disturbance, which start s focally, spreads widely, causing a generalized seizure, which is typi- cally convulsive. Generalized seizures Originating at some point within, and rapidly engaging bilaterally distributed networks leading to simultaneous onset of widespread electrical discharge with no localizing features referable to a single hemisphere. Important subtypes include: • Absence seizures: Brief (≤10s) pauses, eg suddenly stops talking in mid-sen- tence, then carries on where left off . Presents in childhood. • Tonic–clonic seizures: Loss of consciousness. Limbs stiff en (tonic), then jerk (clonic). May have one without the other. Post-ictal confusion and drowsiness. • Myoclonic seizures: Sudden jerk of a limb, face, or trunk. The patient may be thrown suddenly to the ground, or have a violently disobedient limb: one patient described it as ‘my fl ying-saucer epilepsy’, as crockery which happened to be in the hand would take off . • Atonic (akinetic) seizures: Sudden loss of muscle tone causing a fall, no LOC. • Infantile spasms: (OHCS p206) Commonly associated with tuberous sclerosis. NB: the classifi cation of epileptic syndromes is separate to the classifi cation of seizures, and is based on seizure type, age of onset, EEG fi ndings, and other features such as family history. Localizing features of focal seizures Temporal lobe •Automatisms—complex motor phenomena with impaired aware- ness, varying from primitive oral (lip smacking, chewing, swallowing) or manual movements (fumbling, fi ddling, grabbing) , to complex actions. •Dysphasia. •Déjà vu (when everything seems strangely familiar), or jamais vu (everything seems strangely unfamiliar). •Emotional disturbance, eg sudden terror, panic, anger, or elation, and derealization (out-of-body experiences).• Hallucinations of smell, taste, or sound. •Delus ional behaviour. • Bizarre associations—eg ‘Canned music at Tesco always makes me cry and then pass out’. Frontal lobe •Motor features such as posturing or peddling movements of the legs. •Jacksonian march (a spreading focal motor seizure with retained aware- ness, often starting with the face or a thumb). •Motor arrest. •Subtle behavioural disturbances (often diagnosed as psychogenic). •Dysphasia or speech arrest. •Post-ictal Todd’s palsy (p712). Parietal lobe •Sensory disturbances—tingling, numbness, pain (rare). •Motor symptoms (due to spread to the pre-central gyrus). Occipital lobe •Visual phenomena such as spots, lines, fl ashes. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 449911 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN 492 Epilepsy: management Living with epilepsy creates many problems: inability to drive and drug side-eff ects to name a few. Good management of
