Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


fl ashes. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 449911 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN 492 Epilepsy: management Living with epilepsy creates many problems: inability to drive and drug side-eff ects to name a few. Good management of the condition by an integrated specialized team is therefore of utmost importance. Anti-epileptic drugs (AEDS) Should only be commenced by a specialist, after con- fi rmed epilepsy diagnosis, ≥2 seizures (unless risk of recurrence is high, eg struc- tural brain lesion, focal CNS defi cit, or unequivocal epileptiform EEG), and following a detailed discussion of treatment options with the patient. AED choice depends on seizure type and epilepsy syndrome, comorbidities, lifestyle, and patient preference: • Focal (partial) seizures: 1st line: carbamazepine or lamotrigine. 2nd line: leveti- racetam, oxcarbazepine, or sodium valproate.13 • Generalized tonic-clonic seizures: 1st line: sodium valproate13 or lamotrigine. 2nd line: carbamazepine, clobazam, levetiracetam, or topiramate. • Absence seizures: 1st line: sodium valproate13 or ethosuximide. 2nd line: lamotrigine. • Myoclonic seizures: 1st line: sodium valproate.13 2nd line: levetiracetam, or topira- mate (but SE). Avoid carbamazepine and oxcarbazepine—may worsen seizures. • Tonic or atonic seizures: Sodium valproate13 or lamotrigine. Treat with one drug and with one doctor in charge only. Slowly build up doses over 2–3 months (see BOX ‘Anti-epileptic drugs (AEDS)’) until seizures are controlled or maximum dosage is reached. If ineff ective or not tolerated, switch to the next most appropriate drug. To switch drugs, introduce the new drug slowly, and only with- draw the 1st drug once established on the 2nd. Dual (adjunct) therapy is necessary in <10% of patients—consider if all appropriate drugs have been tried singly at the optimum dose. Stopping AEDS: May be done under specialist supervision if the patient has been seizure-free for >2yrs and after assessing risks and benefi ts for the individual (eg the need to drive). The dose must be decreased slowly: over at least 2–3 months, or >6 months for benzodiazepines and barbiturates. Other interventions Psychological therapies: Eg relaxation, CBT. May benefi t some, but do not improve seizure frequency so only use as an adjunct to medica- tion. Surgical intervention: Can be considered if a single epileptogenic focus can be identifi ed (such as hippocampal sclerosis or a small low-grade tumour). Neuro- surgical resection off ers up to 70% chance of seizure resolution, but carries the risk of causing focal neurological defi cits. Alternatives: vagal nerve stimulation, deep brain stimulation (DBS). Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP)
