Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


5% risk of fetal abnormalities, so good seizure control prior to conception and during pregnancy is vital. Yet some anti-epileptics are teratogenic: the patient must be given accurate information and counselling about contracep- tion, conception, pregnancy, and breastfeeding in order to make informed deci- sions. In particular: • Advise women of child-bearing age to take folic acid 5mg/d. • Strictly avoid sodium valproate and polytherapy prior to conception and during pregnancy (lamotrigine is preferred but transition needs to be planned). • Advise that most AEDS except carbamazepine and valproate are present in breast milk. Lamotrigine is not thought to be harmful to infants. • Discuss contraceptive methods, bearing in mind that: enzyme-inducing AEDS make progesterone-only contraception unreliable, and oestrogen-containing contraceptives lower lamotrigine levels—an increased dose may be needed to achieve seizure control. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 449933 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN 494 Parkinsonism This is the extrapyramidal triad of: 1 Tremor. Worse at rest; often ‘pill-rolling’ of thumb over fi ngers (see p468). 2 Hypertonia. Rigidity + tremor gives ‘cogwheel rigidity’, felt by the examiner during rapid pronation/supination. 3 Bradykinesia. Slow to initiate movement; actions slow and de- crease in amplitude with repetition, eg  blink rate, micrographia. Gait is festinant (shuffl ing, pitched forward, fi g 10.25) with  arm- swing and freezing at obstacles or doors (due to poor simulta- neous motor and cognitive function). Expressionless face. Causes Fig 10.25 ‘Marche à petit pas.’ Parkinson’s disease (PD): Loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, associated with Lewy bodies in the basal ganglia, brain- stem, and cortex. Most cases are sporadic, though multiple genetic loci have been identifi ed in familial cases. Mean age at onset is 60yrs. Prevalence:  with age: 3.5% at 85–89yrs. Clinical features: The parkinsonian triad, plus non-motor symptoms such as: autonomic dysfunction (postural hypotension, constipation, urinary fre- quency/urgency, dribbling of saliva), sleep disturbance, and reduced sense of smell. Neuropsychiatric complications, such as depression, dementia, and psychosis, are common and debilitating. Diagnosis: Is clinical and based on the core features of bradykinesia with resting tremor and/or hypertonia; cerebellar disease and fronto- temporal dementia should be excluded; a clinical response to dopaminergic therapy is supportive. Signs are invariably worse on one side—if symmetrical look for other causes. If an alternative cause is suspected then consider MRI to rule out structural pathology. Functional neuroimaging (DaTscan™, PET) is playing an emerging role. Treatment: Focuses on symptom control and does not slow
