Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


alternative cause is suspected then consider MRI to rule out structural pathology. Functional neuroimaging (DaTscan™, PET) is playing an emerging role. Treatment: Focuses on symptom control and does not slow disease progression (see BOX). Non-pharmacological options include deep brain stimulation (DBS, may help those who are partly dopamine-responsive) and surgical ablation of overactive basal ganglia circuits (eg subthalamic nuclei). Parkinson’s plus syndromes Pro gressive supranuclear palsy: (PSP, Steele–Rich- ardson–Olszewski syndrome.) Early postural instability, vertical gaze palsy ± falls; rigidity of trunk >limbs; symmetrical onset; speech and swallowing problems; little tremor. Multiple system atrophy: (MSA; Shy–Drager.) Early autonomic features, eg impotence/incontinence, postural BP; cerebellar + pyr amidal signs; rigidity > tremor. Cortico-basal degeneration: (CBD.) Akinetic rigidity involving one limb; cortical sensory loss (eg astereognosis); apraxia (even autonomous interfering activity by aff ected limb—the ‘alien limb’ phenomenon). Lewy body dementia: See p486. Secondary causes Vascular parkinsonism: (2.5–5% of parkinsonism, also called ‘lower limb’ parkinsonism). Eg diabetic/hypertensive patient with postural instabil- ity and falls (rather than tremor, bradykinesia, and festination). Other secondary causes: Drugs (neuroleptics, metoclopramide, prochlorp era zine), toxins (manganese), Wilson’s disease (p285), trauma (dementia pugilistica), encephalitis, neurosyphilis. Management Requires input of a a multidisc iplinary team (GP, neurologist, nurse specialist, social worker, carers, physio- and occupational therapist) to boost quality of life. Assess disability and cognition objectively and regu larly, and monitor mood— depression is common. Involve palliative care services early on. Postural exercises and weight lifting may help. Don’t forget the carers (p487): off er respite care. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 449944 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN Pharmacological therapy in Parkinson’s disease 495 A key decision is when to start supplementation of dopaminergic signalling with levodopa. Effi cacy of this therapy reduces with time, requiring larger and more frequent dosing, with worsening SEs and response fl uctuations (such as unpredictable freezing and pronounced end-of-dose reduced response: ~50% at 6yrs). Starting late may therefore be wise, eg when >70yrs or when PD seriously interferes with life: discuss pros and cons with the patient. Do not withdraw medication suddenly—risks acute akinesia and neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Be aware of situations where malabsorption could also have this eff ect (eg abdominal surgery, gastroenteritis). Levodopa: Dopamine precursor, given combined with a dopa-decarboxylase inhibi- tor in co-beneldopa or co-careldopa. SES: dyskinesia, painful dystonia. Non-motor SES: psychosis; visual hallucinations, nausea and vomiting (give domperidone). Modifi ed-release preparations should only be used in late disease. Dopamine agonists (DAS): Ropinirole and pramipexole monotherapy can
