Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


painful dystonia. Non-motor SES: psychosis; visual hallucinations, nausea and vomiting (give domperidone). Modifi ed-release preparations should only be used in late disease. Dopamine agonists (DAS): Ropinirole and pramipexole monotherapy can delay starting levodopa in early stages of PD, and allow lower doses of levodopa as PD progresses. Rotigotine transdermal patches are available as mono- or additive. SES: drowsiness, nausea, hallucinations, compulsive behaviour (gambling, hyper- sexuality, p449). Ergot-derived DA-agonists (b romocriptine, pergolide, cabergo- line) can cause fi brotic reactions, and are not favoured. Amantadine (weak DA) is used for drug-induced dyskinesias in late PD. Apomorphine: Potent DA agonist used with continuous SC infusion to even out end- of-dose eff ects, or as a rescue-pen for sudden ‘off ’ freezing. SE: injection-site ulcers. Anticholinergics: (Eg benzhexol, orphenadrine.) Cause confusion in the elderly and have multiple SES—limit to younger patients (but not 1st line). MAO-B inhibitors: (Eg rasagiline, selegiline.) An alternative to dopamine agonists in early PD. SEs include postural hypotension and atrial fi brillation. COMT inhibitors: (Eg entacapone, tolcapone.) May help motor complications in late disease. Lessen the ‘off ’ time in those with end-of-dose wearing off . Tolcapone has better effi cacy, but may cause severe hepatic complications and requires close monitoring of LFT. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 449955 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN 496 Multiple sclerosis (MS) Infl ammatory plaques of demyelination in the CNS disseminated in space and time; ie occuring at multiple sites, with ≥30d in between attacks. Demyelination heals poorly, eventually causing axonal loss; >80% of patients develop progressive disabil- ity. The exact cause of the disease remains unknown; it is most likely a combination of genetic and environmental factors. There is >30% concordance in identical twins, and unusual geographical distribution, with increasing incidence with latitude in some parts of the world (NB: adult migrants take their risk with them; children ac- quire the risk of where they settle)—leading to hypotheses of the roles of vitamin D and infection. Mean age of onset is 30yrs. : ≥3:1. Presentation Usually monosymptomatic: ~20% present with unilateral optic neuri- tis (pain on eye movement and rapid central vision). Corticospinal tract and bladder involvement are also common, and symptoms may worsen with heat (eg hot bath or exercise). Other symptoms/signs see table 10.8. Diagnosis This is clinical, made by a consultant neurologist using established crite- ria (eg McDonald, see table 10.9) and after alternative diagnoses have been excluded. Early diagnosis and treatment reduce relapse rates and
