Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


clinical, made by a consultant neurologist using established crite- ria (eg McDonald, see table 10.9) and after alternative diagnoses have been excluded. Early diagnosis and treatment reduce relapse rates and disability so refer to neu- rology as soon as MS is suspected. Tests Depending on presenting symptoms, some patients may need extra support- ing information to make a diagnosis (as per the McDonald criteria). MRI: Sensi- tive but not sp e cifi c for plaque detection. It may also exclude other causes, eg cord compression. CSF: Oligoclonal bands of IgG on electrophoresis that are not present in serum suggest CNS infl am mation. Delayed visual, auditory, and somatosensory evoked potentials. Progression Most patients follow a relapsing-remitting course, with initial recov- ery in between relapses. With time, remission becomes incomplete, so disability accumulates (secondary progression). 10% of patients display steadily progressive disability in the absence of relapses (primary progressive MS), while a minority of pa- tients experience no progressive disablement at all. Poor prognostic signs: Older ; motor signs at onset; many early relapses; many MRI lesions; axonal loss. Pregnancy: Does not alter the rate of progression: relapses may reduce during pregnancy and increase 3–6 months afterwards, but return to their previous rate thereafter. Management As with all neurological conditions, requires the coordinated care of a multidis ciplinary team and full involvement of the patient in all decisions.8 Lifestyle advice: Regular exercise, stopping smoking and avoiding stress may help. Disease-modifying drugs: Dimethyl fumarate is an option for mild/moderate re- lapsing-remitting MS. The monoclonal antibodies alemtuzumab (acts against T cells) and natalizumab (acts against VLA-4 receptors that allow immune cells to cross the blood–brain barrier) are also approved for relapsing-remitting disease. Interferon beta and glatiramer are not recommended by NICE on the balance of clinical and cost-eff ectiveness. Azathioprine is not recommended due to its SE profi le. Treating relapses: Methylprednisolone, eg 0.5–1g/24h IV/PO for 3–5d shortens acute relapses; use sparingly ( twice/yr; steroid SE, p377). It doesn’t alter overall prognosis. Symptom control: Spasticity: off er baclofen or gabapentin. Tizanidine or dant- rolene are 2nd line; if these fail consider benzodiazepines. Tremor: botulinum toxin type A injections improve arm tremor and functioning . Urgency/frequency: if post- micturition residual urine >100mL, teach intermittent self-catheterization; if <100mL, try tolterodine. Fatigue: amantadine, CBT, and exercise may help. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 449966 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN Table 10.8 Clinical features of MS 497 Sensory: • Dysaesthesia GI: Swallowing disorders;
