Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


the cornea) with ipsilat- eral facial palsy, loss of taste, vertigo, tinnitus, deafness, dry mouth and eyes. The rash may be subtle or even absent (‘herpes sine herpete’=herpes without herpes). Incidence: ~5/100 000 (higher if >60yrs). Diagnosis: Clinical, as antiviral treatment is thought to be most eff ective within the 1st 72h, while the virus is replicating. : Antivirals (eg aciclovir 800mg PO 5 ≈ daily for 7d) + prednisolone, as for Bell’s palsy. Prognosis: If treated within 72h, ~75% recover well; if not, ~ ⅓ make a good recovery, ⅓ a reasonable recovery, and ⅓ a poor recovery. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 550011 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN 502 Mononeuropathies Lesions of individual peripheral or cranial nerves. Causes are usually local, such as trauma, or entrapment (eg tumour), except for carpal tunnel syndrome (see BOX ‘Car- pal tunnel syndrome’). Median nerve C6–T1 The median nerve is the nerve of precision grip—muscles in- volved are easier to remember if you use your ‘LOAF’ (two lumbricals, opponens pol- licis, abductor pollicis brevis, and flexor pollicis brevis). The clinical features depend on the location of the lesion: At the wrist: (Eg see BOX ‘Carpal tunnel syndrome’.) Weakness of abductor pollicis brevis and sensory loss over the radial 3½ fi ngers and palm. Anterior interosseous nerve lesions: (Eg trauma.) Weakness of fl exion of the distal phalanx of the thumb and index fi nger. Proximal lesions: (Eg compression at the elbow.) May show combined defects. Ulnar nerve C7–T1 Vulnerable to elbow trauma. Signs: Weakness/wasting of medial (ulnar side) wrist fl exors, interossei (cannot cross the fi nge rs in the good luck sign), and medial two lumbricals (claw hand, more marked in wrist lesions with digitorum profundus intact); hypothenar emine nce wasting, weak 5th digit abduction, and 4th and 5th DIP joint fl exion; sensory loss over medial 1½ fi ngers and ulnar side of the hand. Treatment: see BOX ’Managing ulnar mononeuropathies from entrapments’. Radial nerve C5–T1 This nerve opens the fi st. It may be damaged by compression against the humerus. Signs: Test for wrist and fi nger drop with elbow fl exed and arm pronated; sensory loss is variable—the dorsal aspect of the root of the thumb (the anatomical snuff box) is most reliably aff ected. Muscles involved: (‘BEAST’) brachioradialis; extensors; abductor pollicis longus; supinator; triceps. Brachial plexus Pain/paraesthesiae and weakness in the aff ected arm in a vari- able distribution. Causes: Trauma, radiotherapy (eg
