Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


ected. Muscles involved: (‘BEAST’) brachioradialis; extensors; abductor pollicis longus; supinator; triceps. Brachial plexus Pain/paraesthesiae and weakness in the aff ected arm in a vari- able distribution. Causes: Trauma, radiotherapy (eg for breast carcinoma), pro- longed wearing of a heavy rucksack, cervical rib, thoracic outlet compression (also aff ects vasculature), or neuralgic amyotrophy (Parsonage–Turner syndrome: uni- lateral sudden, severe pain, followed over hours by profound weakness, resolv- ing completely over days. May rarely involve the phrenic or lower cranial nerves.) Phrenic nerve C3–5 C3, 4, 5 keeps the diaphragm alive: lesions cause orthopnoea with a raised hemidiaphragm on CXR. Causes: Lung cancer, TB, paraneopla stic syn- dromes, myeloma, thymoma, cervical spondylosis/trauma, thoracic surgery, infec- tions (HZV, HIV, Lyme disease), muscular dystrophy. Lateral cutaneous nerve of the thigh L2–L3 Meralgia paraesthetica is antero- lateral burning thigh pain from entrapment under the inguinal ligament. Sciatic nerve L4–S3 Damaged by pelvic tumours or fractures to pelvis or femur. Lesions aff ect the hamstrings and all muscles below the knee (foot drop), with loss of sensation below the knee laterally. Common peroneal nerve L4–S1 Originates from sciatic nerve just above knee. Often damaged as it winds round the fi bular head (trauma, sitting cross-legged). Signs: Foot drop, weak ankle dorsifl exion/eversion, sensory loss over dorsal foot. Tibial nerve L4–S3 Originates from sciatic nerve just above knee. Lesions lead to an inability to stand on tiptoe (plantarfl exion), invert the foot, or fl ex the toes, with sensory loss over the sole. Mononeuritis multiplex Describes the involvement of two or more peripheral nerves. Causes tend to be systemic: DM, connective tissue disorders (rheumatoid, SLE), vasculitis (granulomatosis with polyangiitis formerly Wegener’s granuloma- tosis, PAN), and more rarely sarcoidosis, amy loid, leprosy. Electrom yography (EMG) helps defi ne the anatomic site of lesions. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 550022 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN Carpal tunnel syndrome: the commonest mononeuropathy 503 The median nerve and nine tendons compete for space within the wrist. Compres- sion is common, especially in women who have narrower wrists but similar-sized tendons to men. Clinical features: Aching pain in the hand and arm (especially at night), and par- aesthesiae in thumb, index, and middle fi ngers: relieved by dangling the hand over the edge of the bed and shaking it (remember ‘wake and shake’). There may be sensory loss and weakness of abductor pollicis brevis ± wasting of the thenar emi- nence. Light touch, 2-point discrimination, and sweating may
