Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


it (remember ‘wake and shake’). There may be sensory loss and weakness of abductor pollicis brevis ± wasting of the thenar emi- nence. Light touch, 2-point discrimination, and sweating may be impaired. Causes: Anything causing swelling or compression of the tunnel: myxoedema; prolonged fl exion (eg in a Colles’ splint); acromegaly; myeloma; local tumours (lipomas, ganglia); rheumatoid arthritis; amyloidosis; pregnancy; sarcoidosis. Tests: Neurophysiology helps by confi rming the lesion’s site and severity (and like- lihood of improvement after surgery). Maximal wrist fl exion for 1 min (Phalen’s test) may elicit symptoms, and tapping over the nerve at the wrist can induce tingling (Tinel’s test) but both are rather non-specifi c. Treatment: Splinting, local steroid injection ± decompr ession surgery. NB: There is also tarsal tunnel syndrome: unilateral burning sole pain following tibial nerve compression. Managing ulnar mononeuropathies from entrapments The ulnar nerve asks for trouble in at least fi ve places at the elbow, starting proximally at the arcade of Struthers (a musculofascial band ~8cm proximal to the medial epicondyle), and ending distally where it exits the fl exor carpi ulnaris muscle in the forearm. Most often, compression occurs at the epicondylar groove or at the point where the nerve passes between the two heads of fl exor carpi ul- naris (true cubital tunnel syndrome). Trauma can easily damage the nerve against its bony confi nes (the medial condyle of the humerus—the ‘funny bone’). Normally, stretch and compression forces on the ulnar nerve at the elbow are moderated by its ability to glide in its groove. When normal excursion is restricted, irritation ensues. This may cause a vicious cycle of perineural scarring, consequent loss of excursion, and progressive symptoms—without antecedent trauma. Compressive ulnar neuropathies at the wrist (Guyon’s canal—between the pisiform and hamate bones) are less common, but they can also result in disability. Treatment centres on rest and avoiding pressure on the nerve, but if symp- toms conti nue, night-time soft elbow splinting (to prevent fl exion >60°) is warranted. A splint for the hand may help prevent permanent clawing of the fi ngers. For chronic neuropathy associated with weakness, or if splint- ing fails, a variety of surgical procedures have been tried. For moderately se- vere neuropathies, decompressions in situ may help, but often fail. Medial epicondylectomies are eff ective in 50% (but many will recur). Subcutaneous nerve re-routing (transposition) may be tried. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 550033 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN
