Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


distinguishing MND from MS and poly- neuropathies. MND never aff ects eye movements, distinguishing it from myasthenia (p512). There are four clinical patterns: 1 ALS/amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. (Archetypal MND; up to 80%.) Loss of motor neurons in motor cortex and the anterior horn of the cord, so combined UMN + LMN signs (p446). Worse prognosis if: bulbar onset, age; FVC. 2 Progressive bulbar palsy. (10–20%.) Only aff ects cranial nerves IX–XII. See BOX ‘Bulbar and corticobulbar (‘pseudobulbar’) palsy’. 3 Progressive muscular atrophy. (<10%.) Anterior horn cell lesion, so LMN signs only. Aff ects distal muscle groups before proximal. Better prognosis than ALS. 4 Primary lateral sclerosis. (Rare.) Loss of Betz cells in motor cortex: mainly UMN signs, marked spastic leg weakness and pseudobulbar palsy. No cognitive decline. Presentation Think of MND in those >40yrs (median UK age at onset is 60) with stum- bling spastic gait, foot-drop ± proximal myopathy, weak grip (door-handles don’t turn) and shoulder abduction (hair-washing is hard), or aspiration pneumonia. Look for UMN signs: spasticity, brisk refl exes, plantars; and LMN signs: wasting, fascic- ulation of tongue, abdomen, back, thigh. Is speech or swallowing aff ected (bulbar signs)? Fasciculation is not enough to diagnose an LMN lesion: look for weakness too. Frontotemporal dementia occurs in ~25% (see BOX ‘Dignity and Dignitas’). Diagnostic criteria (See BOX ‘Revised El Escorial diagnostic criteria for ALS’). There is no diagnostic test. Brain/cord MRI helps exclude structural causes, LP helps exclude infl ammatory ones, and neurophysiology can detect subclinical denervation and help exclude mimicking motor neuropathies.14 Prognosis Poor, <3yrs post onset in half of patients. Management Adopt a multidisciplinary approach: neurologist, palliative nurse, hospi ce, physio, OT, speech therapist, dietician, social services—all orchestrated by the GP. Riluzole, an inhibitor of glutamate release and NMDA receptor antagonist, is the only medication shown to improve survival. Mulitple other drugs that have shown promise in animal models have failed to prove benefi t in clinical trials, includ- ing neurotrophic factors, anti-apoptotic agents, antioxidants, and immunomodu- latory drugs. For supportive/symptomatic treatment: Excess saliva: Advise on positioning, oral care, and suctioning. Try an antimuscarinic (eg propantheline) or glycopyrronium bromide (can be given SC). Botulinum toxin A may help. Dysphagia: Blend food. Gastrostomy is an option—discuss early on. Spasticity: Exercise, orthot- ics. See MS for drugs (p496). Communication diffi culty: Provide ‘augmentative and alternative’ communication equipment. End-of-life care: Involve palliative care team from diagnosis (p532). Consider opioids
