Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


on. Spasticity: Exercise, orthot- ics. See MS for drugs (p496). Communication diffi culty: Provide ‘augmentative and alternative’ communication equipment. End-of-life care: Involve palliative care team from diagnosis (p532). Consider opioids to relieve breathlessness and discuss non-invasive ventilation (see BOX ‘Dignity and Dignitas’). 14 If no UMN signs and distal arm muscles are aff ected in the distribution of individual nerves, suspect multifocal motor neuropathy with conduction block (diagnose on nerve conduction studies; : IV Ig). Gyn aeco mastia, atrophic testes ± infertility suggests Kennedy syndrome (bulbospinal muscular atrophy). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 550066 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN Bulbar and corticobulbar (‘pseudobulbar’) palsy 507 Bulbar palsy denotes diseases of the nuclei of cranial nerves IX–XII in the medulla. Signs: An LMN lesion of the tongue and muscles of talking and swallowing: fl accid, fasciculating tongue (like a sack of worms); jaw jerk is normal or absent, speech is quiet, hoarse, or nasal. Causes: MND, Guillain–Barré, polio, myasthenia gravis, syringo bulbia (p516), brainstem tumours, central pontine myelinolysis (p672). Corticobulbar palsy UMN lesion of muscles of swallowing and talking due to bilateral lesions above the mid-pons, eg corticobulbar tracts (MS, MND, stroke, cen- tral pontine myelinolysis). It is commoner than bulbar palsy. Signs: Slow tongue movements, with slow deliberate speech; jaw jerk; pharyngeal and palatal re- fl exes; pseudobulbar aff ect (PBA)—weeping unprovoked by sorrow or mood-incon- gruent giggling (emotional incontinence without mood change is also seen in MS, Wilson’s, and Parkinson’s disease, dementia, nitrous oxide use, and head injury). In some countries, dextromethorphan + quinidine is licensed for PBA. Revised El Escorial diagnostic criteria for ALS Defi nite Lower + upper motor neuron signs in 3 regions. Probable Lower + upper motor neuron signs in 2 regions. Probable with lab support Lower + upper motor neuron signs in 1 region, or upper motor neuron signs in ≥1 region + EMG shows acute denervation in ≥2 limbs. Possible Lower + upper motor neuron signs in 1 region. Suspected Upper or lower motor neuron signs only—in 1 or more regions. Dignity and Dignitas ALS is closely linked with frontotemporal dementia (FTD, p486) by increasing clinical, genetic, and molecular evidence (nucleotide repeat expansions in gene C9orf72 have been described in familial and sporadic ALS and in FTD). However, pa- tients with MND often have no cognitive impairment in the early stages of the dis- ease, and witness their inorexable physical decline with terrifi ed awareness. For this reason it
