Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


tients with MND often have no cognitive impairment in the early stages of the dis- ease, and witness their inorexable physical decline with terrifi ed awareness. For this reason it is imperative to plan for the future early: discuss their wishes for end-of-life care and in the eventuality of respiratory decline before it is too late for wishes to be communicated. These discussions are crucial but not binding: the patient can change their mind at any point, and also refuse any life-prolonging treatment, knowing the consequence is death. However, in most countries, in- cluding the UK, we cannot traverse that line that lies between management of a supported death following withdrawal of life-prolonging (or death-prolonging) interventions, and acting with the intention of causing death. Court battles en- sue, with requests for assisted suicide that may frustrate and challenge ethicists, physicians, politicians, and the judiciary, but above all, patients and their families. Faced with such confl icting passions, perhaps our role is to be clear that we stand beside our patients, come what may. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 550077 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN 508 Cervical spondylosis Degeneration of the cervical spine with age is inevitable, and has a wide clinical spec- trum, ranging from asymptomatic to progressive spastic quadriparesis and sensory loss due to compression of the cord (myelopathy). Pathogenesis Degeneration of the annulus fi brosus (the tough coating of the in- tervertebral discs), combined with osteophyte formation on the adjacent vertebra leads to narrowing of the spinal canal and intervertebral foramina (fi gs 10.27, 10.28). As the neck fl exes and extends, the cord is dragged over these protruding bony spurs anteriorly and indented by a thickened ligamentum fl avum posteriorly. Presenting complaint Neck stiff ness (but common in anyone >50yrs old), crepitus on moving neck, stabbing or dull arm pain (brachialgia), forearm/wrist pain. Signs Limited, painful neck movement ± crepitus (examine gently). Neck fl exion may produce tingling down the spine (Lhermitte’s sign, p497). NB: this does not distinguish between cord or roots (or both) involvement. Root compression (radiculopathy): Pain/‘electrical’ sensations in arms or fi ngers at the level of the compression (table 10.11), with numbness, dull refl exes, LMN weakness, and eventual wasting of muscles innervated by the aff ected root. NB: UMN signs below level of the aff ected root suggests cord compression. Features of cord compression: Progressive symptoms (eg weak, clumsy hands; gait disturbance); UMN leg signs (spastic weakness, plantars);
