Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


UMN signs below level of the aff ected root suggests cord compression. Features of cord compression: Progressive symptoms (eg weak, clumsy hands; gait disturbance); UMN leg signs (spastic weakness, plantars); LMN arm signs (wast- ing, hyporefl exia); incontinence, hesitancy, and urgency are late features. Which nerve root is aff ected? See table 10.11.  MS; nerve root neurofi broma; subacute combined degeneration of the cord (B12); compression by bone or cord tumours. Management Urgent MRI and specialist referral guided by red fl ag symptoms (see p542). Bear in mind that although these are stressed in virtually every set of guidelines, no two lists are alike and review of evidence suggests that the accuracy of these features is low. Don’t make referral decisions based upon the presence or absence of a single feature, but use these to inform your judgement. Otherwise: give analgesia (as per WHO ladder) and encourage gentle activity. Cervical collars may give respite during brief periods of increased pain, but restrict mobility, so may prolong symptoms: avoid where possible. If no improvement in 4–6 weeks then MRI and consider neurosurgical referral for: interlaminar cervical epidural injections, transforaminal injections or surgical decompression (via anterior ap- proach, eg discectomy or posterior approach, eg laminectomy—fi g 10.29, or laminoplasty—fi g 10.30). There is no consensus or high-quality evidence to guide selection of approach or of patients, though interventions may be best reserved for those with progressive deterioration, myelopathy causing disabling neurologic defi - cits, or those at risk for deterioration (eg severe spinal cord compression on MRI). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 550088 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN Table 10.11 Clinical patterns of nerve root impingement 509 Typical motor and sensory defi cits from individual root involvement (C5–8) Nerve root Motor and sensory defi cit Pain pattern C5 (C4/C5 disc) Weak deltoid & supraspinatus; Pain in neck/shoulder that radiates supinator jerks; numb elbow. down front of arm to elbow. C6 (C5/C6 disc) Weak biceps & brachioradialis; Pain in shoulder radiating down biceps jerks; numb thumb & index arm below elbow.* fi nger. C7 (C6/C7 disc) Weak triceps & fi nger extension; Pain in upper arm and dorsal fore- triceps jerks; numb middle fi nger. arm. C8 (C7/T1 disc) Weak fi nger fl exors & small Pain in upper arm and medial fore- muscles of the hand; numb 5th & arm. ring fi nger. Worrying symptoms: Night pain, weight, fever. *Passive head turning may exacerbate C6 radicular pain
