Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


upper arm and medial fore- muscles of the hand; numb 5th & arm. ring fi nger. Worrying symptoms: Night pain, weight, fever. *Passive head turning may exacerbate C6 radicular pain but not carpal tunnel syndrome (Spurling’s manoeuvre ). Fig 10.27 A T2-weighted MRI ( Fig 10.28 Cervical vertebra. 1 Dorsal root ganglion; CSF looks bright). The cord is com- 2 Dorsal root; 3 Dura mater; 4 Subarachnoid space; 5 Pia pressed between osteop hytes mater; 6 Grey matter; 7 Spinal nerve; 8 Ventral ramus; anter iorly and the ligamentum fl a- 9 Vertebral artery in the transverse foramen; 10 White vum posteriorly. matter; 11 Ventral spinal nerve. ©Prof P Scally. Fig 10.29 Laminectomy. Fig 10.30 Laminoplasty (screws and plates). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 550099 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN 510 Myopathy Primary disorder of muscle with gradual-onset symmetrical weakness; it may be confused clinically with neuropathy. In favour of myopathy: •Gradual onset of sym- metric proximal weakness—diffi culty combing hair and climbing stairs (NB: weakness is also distal in myotonic dystrophy). •Specifi c muscle groups aff ected (ie selective weakness on fi rst presentation). •Preserved tendon refl exes. •No paraesthesiae or bladder problems. •No fasciculation (suggests anterior horn cell or root disease). Rapid onset suggests a toxic, drug, or metabolic myopathy (or a neuropathy). Excess fatigability (weakness with exercise) suggests myasthenia (p512). Sponta- neous pain at rest and local tenderness occurs in infl ammatory myopathies. Pain on exercise suggests ischaemia or metabolic myopathy (eg McArdle’s disease). Oddly fi rm muscles (due to infi ltrati ons with fat or connective tissue) suggest pseudo- hyper trop hic muscular dystrophi es (eg Duchenne’s). Tests ESR, CK, AST, and LDH may be raised. Do EMG and tests relevant to systemic causes (eg TSH, p216). Muscle biopsy and genetic testing may help reach a diagnosis. Muscular dystrophies A group of genetic diseases (see table 10.12) with progres- sive degeneration and weakness of specifi c muscle groups. The primary abnormal- ity may be in the muscle membrane. There may be unusually fi rm muscles due to infi ltrati on by fat or connective tissue, and marked variation in size of individual muscle fi bres on histology. • Duchenne’s muscular dystrophy: The commonest (3/1000 male live births). Presents at ~4yrs old with clumsy walking, then diffi - culty in standing, and respiratory failure. Pseudohypertrophy is seen, especially in the calves. Serum creatine kinase  >40-fold. There is no specifi c treatment. Some
