Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


clumsy walking, then diffi - culty in standing, and respiratory failure. Pseudohypertrophy is seen, especially in the calves. Serum creatine kinase  >40-fold. There is no specifi c treatment. Some survive beyond 20yrs. Home ventilation improves prognosis. Genetic counselling is vital. • Becker’s muscular dystrophy: (~0.3/1000  births.) Presents similarly to Duchenne’s but with milder symptoms, at a later age, and with a better prognosis. • Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrop hy: (FSHD, Landouzy–Dejerine.) Almost as common as Duchenne’s. Onset is ~12–14yrs old, with inability to puff out the cheeks and diffi culty raising the arms above the head. Signs: weakness of face (‘ironed out’ expression), shoulders, and upper arms (often asymmetric with deltoids spared), foot-drop, scapular winging (fi g 10.31) , scoliosis, anterior axillary folds, and horizon- tal clavicles. 20% need a wheelchair by 40yrs. Myotonic disorders Cause tonic muscle spasm (myotonia), and demonstrate long chains of central nuclei within muscle fi bres on histology. The commonest is myo- tonic dystrophy which is, in fact, clinically and genetically heterogeneous, with two major forms (DM1 and DM2—see table 10.12), both showing abnormal trinucleotide repeat expansions in regulatory (non-coding) genetic regions. DM1 is the commoner, more severe, and typically presents between 20–40 yrs old with distal weakness (hand/foot drop), weak sternomastoids, and myotonia. Facial weakness and muscle wasting give a long, haggard appearance. Also: cataracts, male frontal baldness, diabetes, testis/ovary atrophy, cardiomyopathy, and cognition. Most DM1 patients die in late middle age of respiratory or cardiac complications. Mexiletine may help with disabling myotonia. Genetic counselling is important. Infl ammatory myopathies There may be spontaneous muscle pain at rest and local tenderness on palpation. Inclusion body myositis is the chief example if aged >50yrs. Weakness starts with quadriceps, fi nger fl exors, or pharyngeal muscles. Ventral extremity muscle groups are more aff ected than dorsal or girdle groups. Response to therapy is poor and patients typically progress over a decade to require assistance with activites of daily living. Histology shows ringed vacuoles + intranuclear inclusions. Polymyositis and dermatomyositis, see p552. Metabolic myopathies Eg McArdle’s disease (glycogen storage disorder). Pre- sents with muscle pain and weakness after exercise. Acquired myopathies of late onset Often part of systemic disease—eg hyper- thyroidism, malignancy, Cushing’s, hypo- and hypercalcaemia. Drug causes Alcohol; statins; steroids; chloroquine; zidovudine; vincristine; cocaine. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 551100 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN 511 Fig 10.31 Winging of both scapulae in facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy, due to weakness of thoracoscapular
