Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


bromatosis (NF1, von Recklinghausen’s disease) Autosomal dominant inheritance (gene locus 17q11.2). Expression of NF1 is variable, even within a family. Prevalence: 1 in 2500, :≈1:1; no racial predilection. Signs: Café-au-lait spots: fl at, coff ee-coloured patches of skin seen in 1st year of life (clearest in UV light), increasing in size and number with age. Adults have ≥6, >15mm across. They do not predispose to skin cancer. Freckling: typically in skin- folds (axillae, groin, neck base, and submammary area), and usually present by age 10. Dermal neurofi bromas: small, violaceous nodules, gelatinous in texture, which appear at puberty, and may become papillomatous. They are not painful but may itch. Numbers increase with age. Nodular neuro- fi bromas arise from nerve trunks. Firm and clearly demarcated, they can give rise to paraesthesiae if pressed. Lisch nodules (fi g 10.34) are tiny harmless regular brown/transl ucent mounds (hamartomas) on the iris (use a slit lamp) 2mm in diameter. They Fig 10.34 Multiple brown Lisch mde av ce rl oo cp e b py h a6 lyy .rs old in 90%. Also short stature and nodul es on the iris. ©Jon Miles. Complications: Occur in 30%. Mild learning disabil ity is comm on. Local effects of neurofi bromas: nerve root compression (weakness, pain, paraesthesiae); GI—bleeds, obstruction; bone—cystic lesions, scoliosis, pseudarth rosis. BP from renal artery ste- nosis or phaeochromo cytoma. Plexiform neurofi bromas (large, subcutaneous swell- ings). Malignancy (5% patients with NF1): optic glioma, sarcomatous change in a neurofi broma. Epilepsy risk (slight). Rare association: carcinoid syndrome (p271). Management: Multidisciplinary team with geneticist, neuro logist, surgeon, and physiotherapist, orchestrated by a GP. Yearly cutaneous survey and measurement of BP. Dermal neurofi bromas are unsightly, and catch on clothing; if troublesome, excise, but removing all lesions is unrealistic. Genetic counselling is vital (OHCS p154). Type 2 neurofi bromatosis (NF2) Autosomal dominant inheritance, though 50% are de novo, with mosaicism in some (NF2 gene locus is 22q11). Rarer than NF1 with a prevalence of only 1 in 35 000. Signs: Café-au-lait spots are fewer than in NF1. Bilateral vestibular Schwannomas (= acoustic neuromas; p462) are characteristic, becoming symptomatic by ~20yrs old when sensorineural hearing loss is the 1st sign. There may be tinnitus and vertigo. The rate of tumour growth is unpredictable and variable. The tumours are benign but cause problems by pressing on local structures and by ICP. They may be absent in mosaic
