Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


The rate of tumour growth is unpredictable and variable. The tumours are benign but cause problems by pressing on local structures and by ICP. They may be absent in mosaic NF2. Juvenile posterior subcapsular lenticular opacity (a form of cata- ract) occurs before other manifest ations and can be useful in screening those at risk. Complications: Tender Schwannomas of cranial and peripheral nerves, and spinal nerve roots. Meningiomas (45% in NF2, often multiple). Glial tumours are less common. Consider NF2 in any young person presenting with one of these tumours in isolation. Management: Hearing tests yearly from puberty in aff ected families, with MRI brain if abnormality is detected. A normal MRI in the late teens is helpful in assessing risk to any off spring. A clear scan at 30yrs (unless a family history of late onset) indi- cates that the gene has not been inherited. Treatment of vestibular Schwannomas is neurosurgical and complicated by hearing loss/deterioration and facial palsy. Mean survival from diagnosis is ~ 15yrs. Schwannomatosis Multiple tender cutaneous Schwannomas without the bilat- eral vestibular Schwannomas that are characteristic of NF2. Indistinguishable from mosaic NF2, where vestibular Schwannomas are also absent, except by genetic analysis of tumour biopsies. There is typically a large tumour load, assessable only by whole-body MRI. Mutations in the tumour suppressor genes SMARCB1 and LZTR1 and spontaneous NF2 mutations have all been described. Life expectancy is normal. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 551144 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN Diagnostic criteria for neurofi bromatosis 515 NF1 (von Recklinghausen’s disease): Diagnosis is made if 2 of the following are found: 1 ≥6 café-au-lait macules >5mm (pre-pubertal) or >15mm (post-pubertal) 2 ≥2 neurofi bromas of any type or 1 plexiform 3 Freckling in the axillary or inguinal regions 4 Optic glioma 5 ≥2 Lisch nodules 6 Distinctive osseous lesion typical ofN F1, eg sphenoid dysplasia 7 First-degree relative withN F1 according to the above-listed criteria. Differential: McCune–Albright syndrome (OHCS p650), multiple lentigines, urticaria pigmentosa. NF2: Diagnosis is made if either of the following are found: 1 Bilateral vestibular Schwannomas seen onM RI or CT 2 First-degree relative withN F2, and either: a) Unilateral vestibular Schwannoma; or b) One of the following: • Neurofi broma • Meningioma • Glioma • Schwannoma • Juvenile cataract (NF2 type). Differential: NF1, Schwannomatosis. Causes of café-au-lait spots: Normal (eg up to 5); NF1 (melanocyte density vs ‘normal’ café-au-lait spots); NF2; rare syndromes: Gaucher’s; McCune–Albright; Russell–Silver; tuberous sclerosis; Wiskott–Aldrich.
