Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


(NF2 type). Differential: NF1, Schwannomatosis. Causes of café-au-lait spots: Normal (eg up to 5); NF1 (melanocyte density vs ‘normal’ café-au-lait spots); NF2; rare syndromes: Gaucher’s; McCune–Albright; Russell–Silver; tuberous sclerosis; Wiskott–Aldrich. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 551155 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN 516 Syringomyelia A syrinx is a tubular cavity in or close to the central canal of the cervical cord. Mean age of onset: 30yrs. Incidence: 8/100 000/yr. Symptoms may be static for years, but then worsen fast—eg on coughing or sneezing, as pressure causes extension, eg into the brainstem (syringobulbia, see later in topic). Causes Typically, blocked CSF circulation (without 4th ventricular communic- ation), with fl ow from basal posterior fossa to caudal space, eg Arnold–Chiari malformation (cerebellum herniates through foramen magnum); basal arachnoidi- tis (after infection, irradiation, subarachnoid haemorrhage); basilar invagination (in which the top of the odontoid process of C2 migrates upwards, causing fora- men magnum stenosis ± medulla oblongata compression); masses (cysts, rheu- matoid pannus, encephalocoele, tumours). Less commonly, a syrinx may develop after myelitis, cord trauma, or rupture of an AV malformation, or within spinal tumours (ependymoma or haemangioblastoma) due to fl uid secreted from neo- plastic cells or haemorrhage. Signs Dissociated sensory loss (absent pain and T° sensation, with preserved light touch, vibration, and joint-position sense) due to pressure from the syrinx on the decussating antero lateral pathway (fi g 10.35) in a root dis tribution refl ect- ing the location of the syrinx (eg for typical cervical syrinx then sensory loss is over trunk and arms); wasting/weakness of hands ± claw-hand (then armssho- uldersrespirat ory muscles). Anterior horn cells are also vulnerable. Other signs: Horner’s syndrome (can be bilateral and therefore more diffi cult to spot); UMN leg signs; body asymm etry, limb hemi- hypert rophy, or unil at eral odo- or chiromegaly (enlarged hand or foot), perhaps from release of trophic fac- tors via anterior horn cells; Char- cot’s joints in the shoulder/wrist due to lost joint prop rio ception (see fi g 5.11, p213). Syringo bulbia (Brains tem involve- ment.) Nyst agmus, tongue atro- phy, dysphagia, pharyngeal/palatal weak ness, Vth nerve sensory loss. MRI imaging How big is the syrinx? Any base-of-brain (Chiari) malfor- mation? Surgery Don’t wait for gross dete- rioration to occur. Decompression at the foramen magnum may be tried in Chiari malformati ons to promote free fl ow of CSF, and so prevent syrinx dilatation. Surgery may reduce pain and progression. Fig 10.35 The
