Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


foramen magnum may be tried in Chiari malformati ons to promote free fl ow of CSF, and so prevent syrinx dilatation. Surgery may reduce pain and progression. Fig 10.35 The anterolateral system. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 551166 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolorueN Retroviruses and neurology 517 HIV and AIDS (p398.) Can have multiple neurological manifestations: these conditions are part of the diff erential diagnosis of meningitis, intrac ranial mass lesions, demen- tia, encephalomyelitis, cord problems, and peripheral neuropathies. Acute infection: May be associated with transient aseptic meningoencephalitis (typically self-limiting), myelo pathy, and neuropathy. Opportunistic infections: Arise during low CD4 counts, which allow unusual or atyp- ical organisms to infect the nervous system: • Toxoplasma gondii (p400) is the main CNS pathogen in AIDS, causing cerebral abscesses which present with focal signs, eg seizures, hemiparesis. CT/MRI shows ring-shaped contrast-enhancing lesions. Treat with pyrimethamine (+folinic acid) + sulfadiazine or clindamycin for 6 months. Con- tinue secondary prophylaxis until CD4 count >200. Pneumocys tis prophylaxis also protects against toxoplasmosis. • Cryptococcus neof orm ans (fi g 10.36) causes a chronic meningitis with fever and headache (neck stiff ness may be absent). Cogni- tion alters slowly, seizures and coma may follow. Treat with amphotericin followed by fl uconazole. • Cytomegalovirus (CMV) can cause encephalopathy. • Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is caused by the JC virus. There is progres- sive white matter infl ammation. Mortality even with antiretroviral therapy is around 50% at 1yr. • Syphilis and TB may also cause meningitis. Tumours: Aff ecting the CNS include primary cerebral lymphoma (associated with EBV) and B-cell lymphoma. CSF JC virus PCR is useful in distinguishing PML from lymphoma. Neuropathies: Common in HIV, and may be a result of the disease itself or antiret- roviral therapy. Up to 30% of patients have a peripheral neuropathy, which is pain- ful and predominantly sensory. Other clinical pictures include polyradiculopathy, mononeuritis multiplex, and proximal myopathy. Chronic HIV-associated neurocognitive disorder (HAND): While antiretroviral ther- apy (ART) has decreased the incidence of CNS complications in HIV/AIDS, people are living longer with the disease, and chronic complications such as HIV-associated de- mentia are increasing. This occurs in 7–15%, late in the disease, and usually when the CD4 count is <200. Progressive behavioural changes are seen along with subcortical features: memory loss, poor attention, and bradykinesia. Various encephalopathies may also contribute to this, eg PML. Human T-cell lymphotrophic virus (HTLV-1) Is another retrovirus with neurologi- cal manifestations, though
