Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


began a dialogue on death and dying, off ering her experience as an inspirational lesson in compassion and care. Before you are a patient, before you have cancer, but most importantly, before you are a doctor, you are simply a human being. And if your humanity is lost or forgotten, then you cannot care, even if medical science is able to provide an answer. hellomynameis.org.uk; #hellomynameis Image and text reproduced courtesy of the family of Dr Kate Granger, MBE. We thank Professor Max Watson, our Specialist Reader, for his contribution to this chapter. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 551188 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 Looking after people with cancer 519 Cancer will aff ect 50% of people born after 1960 and >25% of all deaths in the UK are from cancer.1 While many may not appreciate the poor prognosis attached to diagnoses such as liver failure or heart failure, ‘cancer’ has a widespread as- sociation with suff ering and death. Yet ‘cancer’ is not a homogenous disease but a group of conditions with prognoses ranging from very good (98% 10yr survival for testicular cancer) to extremely poor (21% 1yr survival for pancreatic cancer).1 Communication2 is the fi rst step on a cancer pathway and underpins whatever that diagnosis may subsequently entail for the individual. A range of overwhelm- ing feelings can surface upon receiving a cancer diagnosis: shock, numbness, deni- al, panic, anger, resignation (‘I knew all along…’). Preconceptions, possibly derived vicariously from friends and family, may be deeply embedded leading to despair or inappropriate optimism. Without an understanding of your patient’s starting point, you may fail to be eff ective in your guidance and support. Tips for the discussion of a cancer diagnosis 1 Set the environment up carefully. Choose a quiet place where you will not be disturbed. Make sure family or friends are present according to your patient’s wishes. Anticipate likely questions and be sure of your facts. 2 Find out what the patient already knows and believes (often a great deal). ‘What are you worried about today?’ 3 Give some warning: ‘There is some bad news for us to address’. 4 Ascertain how much the person wants to know. ‘Are you someone who likes to know all the details about your condition?’ Although information is a prior- ity for the majority of cancer patients, this may change with the individual, and the course of the disease. ‘Monitors’ will seek information, ‘blunters’ will distract
