Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


information is a prior- ity for the majority of cancer patients, this may change with the individual, and the course of the disease. ‘Monitors’ will seek information, ‘blunters’ will distract themselves. 5 Share information about diagnosis and treatments. Specifi cally list support- ing people (oncology multidisciplinary team) and institutions (hospices). Break information down into manageable chunks and check understanding for each. 6 Invite questions patients may feel they cannot ask. ‘Is there anything else you want me to explain?’ Do not hesitate to go over the same ground repeatedly. Allow denial, don’t force the pace, give time. Listen to any concerns raised, encourage the airing of feelings. Empathize. 7 Address prognosis. Be honest. Doctors are often too optimistic. Encourage an appropriate level of hope (see BOX ‘Spiritual pain’, p535), refer to an expert. 8 Make a plan. The desire to be involved in decisions about treatment is vari- able: your patient’s locus of control can be internal (desire control of their own destiny) or external (passive acceptance). Decision-making can be im- mediate, deferred, panicked, or rationally deliberated. Time may be required to facilitate any style of decision-making: your plan may be simply to come back and talk again. 9 Summarize, and off er availability. Record details of your conversation includ- ing the language used. 10 Follow through. Leave your patient with the knowledge that you are with them, and that your unwritten contract will not be broken. No rules guarantee success. Use whatever your patient gives you—closely observe both verbal and non-verbal cues. Getting to know your patient, seeking out the right expert for each stage of treatment, and making an agreed management plan, are all required. For any situation which involves the communication of bad news, consider SPIKES:3 • Setting up the interview. • Assess the patient’s Perception of the situation. • Obtain an Invitation (asking the patient’s permission to explain). • Give Knowledge and information to the patient. • Address the Emotional response with Empathy. • Strategy and Summary: aim for consensus with patient and family. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 551199 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 erac evitaillap dna ygolocnO 520 The genetics of cancer How cancers develop Human life requires cells which are capable of dividing millions of times. These cells need to be able to adapt and change so that diff erent tissues and organs can be formed. They need to command their own blood supply. Without extensive mechanisms to control cell
