Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


be able to adapt and change so that diff erent tissues and organs can be formed. They need to command their own blood supply. Without extensive mechanisms to control cell growth and prevent the replication of abnormal cells, these requirements for life become the basis for the development of a cancer. Failure of control mechanisms causes cancer. Cancer is a genetic disease. Genetic changes occur in pathways associated with cell growth, cell diff erentiation, and cell death. Mutations can be inherited or ac- quired. Acquired or somatic errors occur due to age, exposure to carcinogens, and in unchecked rapid cell turnover. Mutations result in: • ‘gain of function’ oncogenes that have pathological activity in the absence of a relevant signal. For example, ras is a protein involved in signal transduction. It is mutated in ~30% of human cancers. Oncogenes behave in a dominant manner: mutation to one allele results in unchecked activation. • ‘loss of function’ tumour suppressor genes no longer act as inhibitors of pro- malignant processes. In most cases, mutations to both alleles must occur for a cancer phenotype. This can occur either as two separate somatic events, or in the case of predisposition genes, the fi rst ‘hit’ is inherited and the second oc- curs somatically. Tumours therefore occur earlier and more frequently in familial cancers. p53 is a tumour suppressor gene mutated in ~50% of human cancers. Most cancers arise from multiple mutations. This is perhaps best represented in the stepwise accumulation of mutations in colorectal cancer (fi g 11.2). An under- standing of the molecular biology of cancer facilitates drug development (fi g 11.3). Normal cell Hyperproliferation Adenoma Carcinoma APC gene K-ras DCC gene p53 Others mutation mutation mutation mutation Normal Hyper- Early Intermediate Late Carcinoma Metastasis cell proliferation adenoma adenoma adenoma Fig 11.2 Cellular mutations and contributing genes in the development of colorectal cancer. Fig 11.3 Therapeutic targeting in cancer. Reprinted from Cell, 144(5), Hanahan et al., Hallmarks of Cancer: the Next Generation, 646–74, 2011, with permission from Elsevier. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 552200 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 erac evitaillap dna ygolocnO Hereditary cancer syndromes 521 A hereditary cancer4 is suggested by: • unusual early age or presentation (eg male breast cancer) • multiple primary cancers or bilateral/multifocal cancers • clustering of cancers in relatives • cancers in multiple generations • rare tumours (eg retinoblastoma) or histology (medullary thyroid cancer, p223) • ethnicity (eg Ashkenazi heritage and breast cancer).
