Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Lower GI PR examination and FBC in all. • Urgent referral if: positive faecal occult blood, >40yrs with abdominal pain plus weight loss, >50yrs with unexplained rectal bleeding, >60yrs with iron-defi cient anaemia or change in bowel habit. • Consider urgent referral if: rectal/abdominal mass, anal ulceration, <50yrs with rectal bleeding plus lower GI symptoms or weight loss or iron-defi ciency anaemia. • Faecal occult blood testing if: >50yrs plus abdominal pain or weight loss, <60yrs with change in bowel habit or iron-defi ciency anaemia, >60yrs and anaemia. Gynaecological • Urgent referral if: ascites, pelvic mass (fi broid excluded), >55yrs with post-meno- pausal bleeding. Breast • Urgent referral if: >30yrs with unexplained breast lump, >50yrs with symptoms or change to one nipple. • Consider urgent referral if: skin changes, >30yrs with axillary lump. Urology • Urgent referral if: • irregular prostate on PR, abnormal age-specifi c PSA (see p530) • >40yrs with unexplained visible haematuria, >60yrs with unexplained non- visible haematuria plus dysuria or WCC • non-painful enlargement or change in shape/texture of testicle. Central nervous system • Urgent MRI in progressive, sub-acute loss of central neurological function. Unexplained weight loss, appetite, and DVT can be non-specifi c signs of cancer. Assess for any additional risk factors, symptoms, signs, and refer accordingly. See also haematology (p352); thyroid (p600); skin (p596). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 552222 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 erac evitaillap dna ygolocnO Cancer and the multidisciplinary team 523 The care of all patients diagnosed with cancer is formally reviewed by a multidis- ciplinary team (MDT). The aim of the MDT is to coordinate high-quality diagnosis, treatment, and care. The MDT should make a recommendation on the best initial treatment for cancer. Note: an MDT can only ‘recommend’; the decision must be made in consultation with the patient. The MDT is made up of healthcare profes- sionals with expertise in treating and supporting patients with cancer. Members should include, but are not limited to: • lead clinician and lead nurse specialist • radiologists (see BOX ‘Interventional oncology’, p527) • histopathologists • expert surgeons, eg upper GI, colorectal, breast, plastics • oncologists (medical and clinical) • palliative care physicians • nominated member to support ongoing clinical trials • patient representative • administrative support. Cancer staging Staging systems are used to describe the extent of a cancer. This is vital to deter- mine the most appropriate treatment, to assess prognosis, and to identify relevant clinical trials. A
