Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


systems are used to describe the extent of a cancer. This is vital to deter- mine the most appropriate treatment, to assess prognosis, and to identify relevant clinical trials. A cancer is always referred to by the stage given at diagnosis. The TNM system is most widely used and is based on the extent of tumour (T), spread to lymph nodes (N), and the presence of metastases (M) (table 11.1). Table 11.1 TNM cancer staging Tx Primary tumour cannot be measured Nx Nodes cannot be assessed T0 Primary tumour cannot be found N0 No node involvement Carcinoma in situ (abnormal cells Number/location of node T is present) N1–3 metastases Size and/or extent of primary tumour M0 No distant spread T1–4 (1=small tumour /minimal invasion; 4=large tumour/extensive invasion) M1 Distant metastases Other prefi xes may also be used: c refers to clinical stage; p is the stage after pathological examination; y refers to stage after neoadjuvant therapy; r is used if a tumour is re-staged after a disease-free interval; a indicates stage at autopsy. The TNM staging may be converted to an overall, less detailed classifi cation of cancer stage: 0–IV. Stage 0 refers to carcinoma in situ; Stages I–III describe the size of cancer and/or nearby spread; Stage IV indicates metastatic disease. Some cancers may have alternative staging systems such as Duke’s classifi ca- tion for colorectal cancer (p616). See also lung cancer (p176); breast cancer (p602); oesophageal cancer (p618); bladder cancer (p647). Cancer imaging Imaging is essential in oncology for diagnosis, prognosis, and to inform and guide treatment. As well as plain radiographs, ultrasound scans, CT, and MRI; there is a wealth of more specialist imaging including: PET-CT: PET uses a non-specifi c radioactive tracer (FDG) which highlights areas of increased metabolism, cell proliferation, or hypoxia. It therefore accumulates in cancer cells >non-cancer cells. PET-CT is a powerful combination of anatomical (CT) and functional (PET) information allowing diagnosis, increased accuracy of staging, and assessment of treatment response. Monoclonal antibodies: Radio-labelled tumour antibodies specifi c to the tumour under investigation, eg prostate specifi c membrane antigen, somatostatin (neu- roendocrine tumours), oestrogen receptor (breast). They can off er better specifi c- ity than standard PET images. (For monoclonal antibodies in treatment see p524.) Bone scintigraphy (bone scan): Detects abnormal metabolic activity in bones including bone metastases. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 552233 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 erac evitaillap dna ygolocnO 524 Cancer treatment: medicine and surgery Chemotherapy
