Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


see p524.) Bone scintigraphy (bone scan): Detects abnormal metabolic activity in bones including bone metastases. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 552233 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 erac evitaillap dna ygolocnO 524 Cancer treatment: medicine and surgery Chemotherapy Chemotherapy7 is the use of any chemical substance to treat disease. In modern- day use, the term refers primarily to the use of cytotoxic drugs in the treatment of cancer. The aim is to deliver enough cytotoxic drug to a cancer-cell target which is expressed diff erently compared to normal tissue. Cytotoxic drugs are given at intervals (cycles of treatment) to allow recovery of normal tissue. Chemotherapy is the only systemic treatment for cancer (surgery and radiotherapy are local treat- ments). This is important as most cancers are considered to be systemic either due to metastases, or the potential to metastasize in the future. Chemotherapy should be prescribed and given only under expert guidance by people trained in its use. Includes: • Single-agent: Rarely curative as genetically resistant cells are selected out. • Combination chemotherapy: A combination of drugs with diff erent mechanisms of action and diff erent side-eff ect profi les reduces the likelihood of resistance and toxicity. The drugs used should have: • cytotoxic activity for that tumour, preferentially able to induce remission • diff erent mechanisms of action, ideally additive or synergistic eff ects • non-overlapping toxicity to maximize benefi t of full therapeutic doses • diff erent mechanisms of resistance. • Adjuvant: After other initial treatment to reduce the risk of relapse, eg following surgical removal of, eg breast, bowel cancer. • Neoadjuvant: Used to shrink tumours prior to surgical or radiological treatment. May allow later treatment to be more conservative. • Palliative: No curative aim, off ers symptom relief, may prolong survival. Classes of cytotoxic drugs • Alkylating agents: Anti-proliferative drugs that bind via alkyl groups to DNA lead- ing to apoptotic cell death, eg cyclophosphamide, chlorambucil, busulfan. • Angiogenesis inhibitors: Eg bevacizumab, afl ibercept, sunitinib. • Antimetabolites: Interfere with cell metabolism including DNA and protein synthe- sis, eg methotrexate, 5-fl uorouracil. • Antioestrogens: Aromatoase inhibitors (eg letrozole, anastrozole), oestrogen receptor antagonists (eg tamoxifen, raloxifene) used in breast cancer treatment. • Antitumour antibiotics: Interrupt DNA function, eg dactinomycin, doxorubicin, mitomycin, bleomycin. • Monoclonal antibodies: Antibodies to a specifi c tumour antigen can slow tumour growth by enhancing host immunity, or be conjugated with chemotherapy/radioac- tive isotopes to allow targeted treatment. Expect more of these in
