Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


who are participating in clinical trials. For many of these, you will not be familiar with the trial therapy or even know which therapy the patient is receiving: a new therapy, an old therapy, or placebo. Contact the research team to discuss any clinical concerns or change in treatment. Contact details should be recorded in the patient’s notes. Look in the notes for, or ask the patient if they have a copy of the ‘Participant Information Sheet’ which is manda- tory for all UK research studies. Information on relevant trials for your patient is available: • Cancer Research UK (www.cancerresearchuk.org/about-cancer/fi nd-a-clinical-trial). • UK Clinical Trials Gateway (www.ukctg.nihr.ac.uk). Fertility and cancer Chemotherapy and radiotherapy may: • damage spermatogonia causing impaired spermatogenesis or male sterility • hasten oocyte depletion leading to premature ovarian failure. If cancer treatment carries a risk of infertility, fertility preservation techniques9 should be discussed prior to treatment being given. • Men: Semen cryopreservation should be off ered before treatment due to the risk of genetic damage in sperm after initiation of chemotherapy. Intracytoplasmic sperm injection means that even a small amount of banked sperm can be used successfully in the future. • Women: Cryopreservation of: 1 Embryos 2 Oocytes: if ethical objections to embryo preservation or no partner 3 Ovarian tissue: no ovarian stimulation required, experimental technique. Ovarian transposition (oophoropexy) may be possible prior to pelvic radiothera- py but protection is not guaranteed due to radiation scatter. Beau’s lines Beau’s lines (fi g 11.4) are horizontal depressions in the nail plate that run parallel to the moon-shaped portion of the nail bed. They result from a sudden in- terruption of nail keratin synthesis and may be due to local infection/trauma, systemic illness, or from medication (p76). Each line in this photo coincided with a round of chemotherapy for breast cancer. Fig 11.4 Beau’s lines. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 552255 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 erac evitaillap dna ygolocnO 526 Cancer treatment: radiotherapy Radiotherapy10 is used in >50% of all cancer and forms part of treatment in 40% of those considered cured. It uses ionizing radiation to cause damage to DNA. This prevents cell division and leads to cell death. The aim of radiotherapy treatment is to inactivate cancer cells without causing a severe reaction in normal tissue. Radical treatment Given with curative intent. Total dose ranges from 40–70 gray (Gy) in up to 40 fractions. Some regimens involve several smaller fractions a day with
