Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Provides relief from cancer-related symptoms, but does not modify the underlying disease process. The techniques (table 11.2) can off er signifi cantly improved qual- ity of life, reduce admissions, and increase time spent outside of hospital. Table 11.2 Interventional techniques available for cancer symptom control Clinical problem Interventional treatment option Ascites Temporary/permanent image-guided ascitic drain Pleural eff usion Temporary/permanent image-guided pleural drain Superior vena cava obstruc- Superior vena cava stenting tion (p528) Oesophageal obstruction Oesophageal stenting Large bowel obstruction Colonic stenting Tumour-related haemorrhage Transarterial embolization Jaundice Biliary drainage and stenting Renal tract obstruction Nephrostomy, ureteric stenting Bone metastases Image-guided ablation Talk to your interventional radiologist. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 552277 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 erac evitaillap dna ygolocnO 528 Oncology emergencies Emergencies11,12 in oncology include: Neutropenic sepsis Temperature >38oC and neutrophil count <0.5≈109/L. Suspect in all patients who are unwell and within 6wks of receiving chemotherapy. Localizing signs may be absent. Examine indwelling catheter sites. Immediate treatment saves lives. Use local guidelines or treat empirically with piperacillin/tazobactam (see p352). Spinal cord compression 3–5% of cancer patients have spinal metastases. ~15% of those with advanced can- cers develop metastatic spinal cord compression. Most commonly associated with lung, prostate, breast, myeloma, melanoma. Urgent treatment is required to pre- serve neurological function and relieve pain. Causes: Collapse or compression of a vertebral body due to metastases (common), direct extension of a tumour into vertebral column (rare). Signs and symptoms: Back pain in ~95%. Ask about nocturnal pain and pain with straining. Worry if there is cervical/thoracic pain. Also limb weakness, diffi culty walking, sensory loss, bowel/bladder dysfunction. Maintain a high index of suspicion. Management: Admit for bed rest and arrange urgent (within 24h) MRI of the whole spine. Give dexamethasone 16mg/24h PO with prophylatic gastroprotection, eg PPI, and blood glucose monitoring. If reduced mobility consider thromboprophylaxis (compression stockings, LMWH). Refer urgently to clinical oncology/cancer MDT. Ra- diotherapy is the commonest treatment and should be given within 24 hours of MRI diagnosis. Decompressive surgery ± radiotherapy may be appropriate depending on prognosis. Patients with loss of motor function after >48h are unlikely to recover function. (See also p466.) Superior vena cava (SVC) syndrome Reduced venous return from head, neck, and upper limbs. Due to extrinsic compres- sion (most common), or venous thrombosis (consider if current or past central ve- nous access). SVC syndrome with airway compromise requires urgent treatment. Causes: >90% of SVC syndrome results from malignancy. Most common
