Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


benign conditions (table 11.4). • Measuring ≥1 tumour marker is unlikely to aid diagnosis unless suspecting a germ cell tumour. • Do not make opportunistic requests for panels of tumour markers in patients with non-specifi c symptoms: they are not helpful and lead to potentially unnecessary investigation. This includes testing PSA in women and CA 125 in men. • In carefully selected patients, in whom cancer is suspected, highly raised levels of a tumour marker may be helpful: • -fetoprotein (FP) and human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) in testicular/ germ cell tumours. • CA 125 in combination with USS and menopausal status. • FPin those at high risk of hepatocellular carcinoma. • PSA >100ng/mL usually indicates metastatic prostate cancer. Tumour markers in monitoring The main value of tumour markers is in monitoring patients known to have cancer. This includes the course of the disease, the eff ectiveness of treatment, and the detec- tion of cancer recurrence. The following markers may be useful: • FP and hCG in testicular/germ cell tumours. • CEA in colorectal cancer. • CA 125 in ovarian cancer. • A cautious interpretation of PSA within the limits of its specifi city and sensitivity. Screening for cancer The UK has several well-established cancer screening programmes. Women are invited for mammography every 3yrs (50–70yrs) and off ered cervical smear tests every 3–5yrs (25–64yrs). Men and women aged 60–74yrs are off ered faecal occult blood testing every 2yrs. Screening tests aim to pick out those who need further investigation to rule out or diagnose a cancer, in the hope that earlier diagnosis and treatment result in better outcomes. All screening tests come with risk: anxiety, harm/discomfort from the test, cost, false positives resulting in further invasive tests, false nega- tives conferring inappropriate reassurance when symptoms arise. When consider- ing screening an asymptomatic population the potential risks and benefi ts need to be weighed carefully and the Wilson criteria (see p23) should be satisfi ed. Should PSA be used to screen for prostate cancer? Most men with prostate cancer will have a high prostate-specifi c antigen (PSA). The higher the PSA, the more likely cancer is. However, PSA is non-specifi c and also raised in benign prostatic disease, BMI <25, recent ejaculation, recent rectal examination, prostatitis, and UTI. 76% of patients with a raised PSA do not have cancer. Following screening tests (see PROMIS study, 2017, for use of multi-parametric MRI), prostate
