Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


from ‘Serum tumour markers: how to order and interpret them’, Sturgeon C M, Lai L C, Duff y M J, 2012, BMJ Publishing Ltd. Oncology and palliative care __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 553311 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 531 532 Palliative care: principles and pain You matter because you are you and you matter to the last moment of your life. We will do all we can to help you, not only to die peacefully, but to live until you die. Dame Cicely Saunders (1918–2005), founder of the modern hospice. Palliative care is the active, holistic care of patients with advanced progressive ill- ness. It combines management of pain and other symptoms, with the provision of psychological, social, and spiritual support. Palliative care is not just for the end of life and it is not just for patients with cancer. Palliative care should run in parallel with other medical treatments. Good symptom control is important in any disease for improving quality of life and may even pro- long survival.16 Take time to fi nd out exactly what is troubling your patient using a problem-based approach. Consider: • physical • psychological • spiritual • social. Remember, each person comes with a set of emotions, preconceptions, and a family already attached. Most hospitals now have a dedicated palliative care team for help and advice (including out of hours). Use their expertise. Assessment of pain Pain is one of the most feared sequelae of a terminal diagnosis and yet it is not inevitable. However, pain is a complex phenomenon. While the aim of management is for the patient to be pain free, this may not be achievable in all cases so do not promise this. Do not assume a cause: detailed history and examination are needed to under- stand aetiology, which will guide subsequent treatment, eg pain from nerve infi l- tration or local pressure may respond better to agents other than opioids. History and examination are essential for all patients, including those at the end of life. Evaluate severity, nature, functional defi cit, and psychological state as all of these contribute to the symptom burden. Management of pain Aim to modify the underlying pathology where possible, eg radiotherapy, chemo- therapy, surgery. Use analgesia to relieve background pain and provide additional PRN doses for ‘breakthrough’ pain. Eff ective analgesia is possible in the majority of patients by combining fi ve principles: 1 By the mouth—give orally whenever possible. 2
