Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


by use of a central catheter (eg Hickman® tunnelled line or PICC). Problems: infection, blockage (fl ush with 0.9% saline or dilute heparin every week), axillary thrombosis, and line slippage. Agitation See ‘Care in the last days of life’, p536. Respiratory tract secretions See ‘Care in the last days of life’, p536. Spiritual pain ‘The spiritual aspects of an illness concerns the human experiences of sickness (or ‘dis-ease’) and the search for meaning within it.’ Peter W Speck Spirituality is a means of experiencing life. It relates to the way in which people understand and live their lives. It is comprised of elements including meaning, purpose, and something greater than ‘self’. It is distinct from faith, which is a religious experience, that may or may not be part of spirituality. Spiritual pain20,21 or suff ering is common when people are facing death. It can include feelings of hopelessness, guilt, isolation, meaninglessness, and confusion. Consider: • the past: painful memories, guilt • the present: isolation, anger • the future: fear, hopelessness. Reminiscence helps address the past, provides context, and off ers recognition of the patient as an individual. Anger should be acknowledged. Fear of the imagined future may not change, but is potentially reduced through discussion. The nature of hope may need to be modifi ed. If hope for a cure is inappropriate, it should not be the main or only hope. Realistic hopes include discharge from hospital, seeing family members happy, being remembered. Making a will, handing over respon- sibilities, and dealing with unfi nished business facilitate control and may allow a sense of completion. Remember the whole person: history, coping mechanisms, state of well-being. Elements such as these will alter how disease aff ects the patient and how the patient responds to disease. Companionship is essential in spiritual support. At times a doctor needs to mod- ify their role to simply accompany the dying patient. This is manageable within established professional boundaries and therapeutic. If you cannot do this, fi nd someone who can: palliative care teams, Macmillan nurses, and chaplains (a listen- ing ear for patients of all faiths and none) are all valuable resources. Spiritual pain is exacerbated by physical symptoms. These must be addressed if spiritual support is to be eff ective. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 553355 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 erac evitaillap dna ygolocnO 536 Palliative care: care in the last days of life Once it is recognized that a
