Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


notice with help from district nursing teams and community palliative care. Discuss transfer to a hospice or nursing home if appropriate. Respond to changes in the clinical situation. Patients who are thought to be at the end of their life occasionally improve. Be alert to signs of improvement, and be prepared to switch back to active treatment when appropriate. Communicate.23 The importance of clear and regular written and verbal commu- nication with dying patients and their families cannot be overemphasized. Find out what is important to your patient. How much information do they know and want to know about their situation and prognosis? Be sensitive to social, religious, and cultural issues. On wanting to die Physician-assisted suicide is the provision of drugs by a doctor for self-adminis- tration by a person to terminate their own life. This is distinct from euthanasia where a doctor administers the lethal drug. There have been repeated attempts to introduce physician-assisted dying (physician-assisted suicide only of the ter- minally ill) into UK law, but all have been rejected by Parliament. Consider autonomy. Should competent patients have the right to determine their death, especially if their situation is unbearable, without prospect of im- provement? It is a powerful argument. But bearable is subjective and prognosis is an inexact science. And benefi cence is divided: is it merciful, or is it abandonment, to end suff ering through death? And what of consent? Consent is key. Yet consent is complex. Could a legal process help? Not without a unique understanding of each patient and the means by which they experience life. A combination of law and medicine may off er false comfort without full accountability by either. Protec- tion for the vulnerable is a valid concern for doctors and society. Requests to hasten death are complex and include personal, psychological, spir- itual, social, cultural, and demographic factors. ~10% of terminally ill patients will consider euthanasia or physician-assisted suicide. These wishes may or may not be fi xed, with ~50% of patients changing their mind within 6 months. Discuss this. Ask your patient how they feel today and what they are afraid of feeling tomor- row. Listen. Answer questions. Off er palliative care. Palliative care is never futile. A wish to die is associated with a need for information, reassurance, and compe- tence in symptom control. Provide these, or fi nd someone who can. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 553377 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 erac
