Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


tissue conditions, spinal pain and metabolic bone disease’. Rheumatological diseases aff ect over 10 million UK adults and 12 000 children. Re- cent advances owe largely to new discoveries about the immunology of these disorders and the discovery of biologic DMARDS. We thank Professor Kevin Davies, our Specialist Reader, for his contribution to this chapter. We also thank Dr Susie Higgins for her contribution to this chapter. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 553388 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 The rheumatological history 539 In the assessment of an arthritic presentation, pay particular attention to the dis- tribution of joint involvement (including spine) and the presence of symmetry. Also look for disruption of joint anatomy, limitation of movement (by pain or contracture), joint eff usions and peri-articular involvement (see p540 for a fuller assessment). Ask about, and examine for, extra-articular features: skin and nail (see p76) involvement (include scalp, hairline, umbilicus, genitalia, and natal cleft—psoriasis can easily be missed); eye signs (see p560); lungs (eg fi brosis) (see p198); kidneys (see p314); heart; GI (eg mouth ulcers, diarrhoea); GU (eg urethritis, genital ulcers); and CNS. Three screening questions for musculoskeletal disease 1 Are you free of any pain or stiff ness in your joints, muscles, or back? 2 Can you dress yourself without too much diffi culty? 3 Can you manage walking up and down stairs? If yes to all three, serious infl ammatory muscle/joint disease is unlikely. Presenting symptoms: Related diseases: • Pattern of involved joints. • Crohn’s/UC (in ank yl osing spondylitis), • Symmetry (or not). preceding infections, psoriasis. Current and past drugs: • Morning stiff ness >30min (eg RA). • Pain, swelling, loss of function, • NSAIDS, DMARDS (p547). • Biological agents (eg TNF inhibitors). erythema, warmth. Family history: Extra-articular features: • Arthritis, psoriasis, autoimmune disease. • Rashes, photosensitivity (eg SLE). Social history: • Raynaud’s (SLE; systemic sclerosis; • Age. polymyositis and dermatomyositis). • Occupation. • Dry eyes or mouth (Sjögren’s). • Sexual history. • Red eyes, iritis (eg AS). • Ethnicity (eg SLE is commoner in African- • Diarrhoea/urethritis (reactive arthri- Caribbeans and Asians). tis). • Ability to function (eg dressing, groom- • Nodules or nodes (eg RA; TB; gout). ing, writing, walking). • Mouth/genital ulcers (eg Behçet’s, • Domestic situation, social support, home SLE). adaptations. • Weight loss (eg malignancy, any sys- • Smoking (may worsen RA). temic infl ammatory disease). • IBD. Arthritides The pattern of joint involvement can provide clues to the
