Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


adaptations. • Weight loss (eg malignancy, any sys- • Smoking (may worsen RA). temic infl ammatory disease). • IBD. Arthritides The pattern of joint involvement can provide clues to the underlying cause (table 12.1). Table 12.1 Patterns of presentation of arthritis Monoarthritis Oligoarthritis (≤5 joints) Polyarthritis (>5 joints involved) Septic arthritis Crystal arthritis Symmetrical Asymmetrical Crystal arthritis Psoriatic arthritis Rheumatoid Reactive (gout, CPPD) arthritis arthritis Osteoarthritis Reactive arthritis, eg Yersinia, Osteoarthritis Psoriatic Salmonella, Campylobacter arthritis Trauma Ankylosing spondylitis Viruses (eg (haemarthrosis) hepatitis A, B, & C; mumps) Osteoarthritis Systemic conditions* (can be either) *Connective tissue disease (eg SLE and relapsing polychondritis), sarcoidosis, malignancy (eg leukaemia), endocarditis, haemochromatosis, sickle-cell anaemia, familial Mediterranean fever, Behçet’s. Exclude septic arthritis in any acutely infl amed joint, as it can destroy a joint in under 24h (p544). Infl ammation may be less overt if immunocompromised (eg from the many immunosuppressive drugs used in rheumatological conditions) or if there is underlying joint disease. Joint aspiration (p541) is the key investigation, and if you are unable to do it, fi nd someone who can. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 553399 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolotamuehR 540 Assessing the locomotor system This aims to screen for rheumatological conditions primarily aff ecting mobility (as a consequence of underlying joint disease). It is based on the GALS locomotor screen (Gait, Arms, Legs, Spine). 1 Essence ‘Look, feel, and move’ (active and passive). If a joint looks normal to you, feels normal to the patient, and has full range of movement, it usua lly is normal. Make sure the patient is comfortable, and obtain their consent before examination. The GALS screening examination should be done in light underwear. Spine: Observe from behind: is muscle bulk normal (buttocks, shoulders)? Is the spine straight? Are paraspinal muscles symmetrical? Any swellings/deformities? Observe from the side: is cervical and lumbar lordosis normal? Any kyphosis? ‘Touch your toes, please’: is lumbar spine fl exion normal, eg Schober’s test?1 Observe from in front: ‘Tilt your head’ (without moving the shoulders)—tests lateral neck fl exion. Palpate for typical fi bromyalgia tender points (see p558). Arms: ‘Try putting your hands behind your head’—tests functional shoulder move- ment. ‘Arms out straight’—tests elbow extension and forearm supination/prona- tion. Examine the hands: any deformity (fi g 12.2), wasting, or swellings? Squeeze across 2nd–5th metacarpophalangeal joints. Pain may denote joint or tendon syno- vitis. ‘Put your index fi nger on your thumb’—tests pincer grip. Assess dexterity, eg fastening a
