Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


or swellings? Squeeze across 2nd–5th metacarpophalangeal joints. Pain may denote joint or tendon syno- vitis. ‘Put your index fi nger on your thumb’—tests pincer grip. Assess dexterity, eg fastening a button or picking up a coin. Legs: Observe legs: normal quadriceps bulk? Any swelling or deformity? With pa- tient lying supine: any leg length discrepancy? Internally/externally rotate each hip in fl exion. Passively fl ex knee and hip to the full extent. Is movement limited? Any crepitus? Find any knee effusion using the patella tap test. If there is fl uid, consider aspirating and testing for crystals or infection. With patient standing: observe feet: any deformity? Are arches high or fl at? Any callosities? These may indicate an ab- normal gait of some chronicity. Squeeze across metatarsophalangeal joints: see as for arms. Also: although not in the GALS system, palpate the heel and Achilles tendon to identify plantar fasciitis and Achilles tendonitis often associated with seronega- tive rheumatological conditions. Examine the patient’s shoes for signs of uneven wear. Gait: Observe walking: is the gait smooth? Good arm swing? Stride length OK? Nor- mal heel strike and toe off ? Can they turn quickly? Range of joint movement Is noted in degrees, with anatomical position being the neutral position—eg elbow fl exion 0°–150° normally, but with fi xed fl exion and lim- ited movement, range may be reduced to 30°–90°. A valgus deformity deviates later- ally (away from the mid-line, fi g 12.3); a varus deformity points towards the mid-line. Fig 12.2 Swan-neck deformity. Reproduced from Watts et al., Oxford Textbook of Rheumatology, 2013, with permission from Oxford University Press. Fig 12.3 Bilateral hallux valgus. Reproduced from British Medical Journal, ‘Hallux valgus’, R Choa, R Sharp, K R Mahtani, 2010, with permission from BMJ Publishing Group Ltd. 1 Schober’s test: make a mark on the lumbar spine at the level of the posterior iliac spine. Measure out a line from 5cm below to 10cm above the mark. Ask to bend forward as far as they can. If the line does not lengthen by at least 5cm in fl exion, there is reduced lumbar fl exion, eg in ankylosing spondylitis. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 554400 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolotamuehR Some important rheumatological investigations 541 Joint aspiration: The most important investigation in any monoarthritic pres- entation (table 12.2, see also OHCS p706). Send synovial fl uid for urgent white cell count, Gram stain, polarized light microscopy (for
