Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


elderly people Morning stiff ness Constant or progressive pain Bilateral or alternating leg pain Nocturnal pain Neurological disturbance (incl. sciatica) Worse pain on being supine Sphincter disturbance Fever, night sweats, weight loss Current or recent infection History of malignancy Immunosuppression, eg steroids/HIV Abdominal mass Leg claudication or exercise-related leg weakness/numbness (spinal stenosis). Examination 1 With the patient standing, gauge the extent and smoothness of lumbar forward/ lateral fl exion and extension (see p540). 2 Test for sacroiliitis: palpate posteriorly down the length of the spine, including over spinous processes, paraspinal muscles, and the sacroiliac joints; examining for tenderness. 3 Neurological defi cits (see BOX): test lower limb sensation, power, and deep tendon and plantar refl exes. Digital rectal examination for perianal tone and sensation. 4 Examine for nerve root pain (table 12.3): this is distributed in relevant dermato- mes, and is worsened by coughing or bending forward. Straight leg test (L4, L5, S1): positive if raising the leg with the knee extended causes pain below the knee, which increases on foot dorsifl exion (Lasègue’s sign). It suggests irritation to the sciatic nerve. The main cause is lumbar disc prolapse. Also femoral stretch test (L2–L4): pain in front of thigh on lifting the hip into extension with the patient lying face downwards and the knee fl exed. 5 Signs of generalized disease—eg malignancy. Examine other systems (eg abdo- men) as pain may be referred. Causes Age determines the most likely causes: 15–30yrs: Prolapsed disc, trauma, fractures, ankylosing spondylitis (AS; p550), spondylolisthesis (a forward shift of one vertebra over another, which is congenital or due to trauma), pregnancy. 30–50yrs: Degenerative spinal disease, prolapsed disc, malignancy (primary or secondary from lung, breast, prostate, thyroid, or kidney ca). >50yrs: Degenerative, osteoporotic vertebral collapse, Paget’s (see p685), malig- nancy, myeloma (see p368), spinal stenosis. Rarer: Cauda equina tumours, psoas abscess, spinal infection (eg discitis, usually staphy- lococcal but also Proteus, E. coli, S. typhi, and TB—there are often no systemic signs). Investigations Arrange relevant tests if you suspect a specifi c cause, or if red fl ag symptoms: FBC, ESR, and CRP (myeloma, infection, tumour), U&E, ALP (Paget’s), serum/urine electrophoresis (myeloma), PSA. X-rays—imaging may not always be necessary but can exclude bony abnormalities and fractures. Correlation be- tween radiographic abnormalities and clinical features can be poor. MRI is the image of choice and can detect disc prolapse, cord compression (fi g 12.7), can- cer, infection,
