Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


secondary to joint disease or other conditions (eg haemochromatosis, obesity, occupational). Signs and symptoms Localized disease (often knee or hip): Pain and crepitus on movement, with background ache at rest. Worse with prolonged activity. Joints may ‘gel’ (brief stiff ness after rest, usually 10–15 minutes or so). Joints may feel unstable, with a perceived lack of power due to pain. Generalized disease: ‘Nodal OA’ (typi- cally DIP, PIP, CMC joints, and knees in post-menopausal females). There may be joint tenderness, derangement and bony swelling (Heberden’s at DIP and Bouchard’s at PIP), reduced range of movement and mild synovitis. Assess eff ect of symptoms on occupation, family duties, hobbies, and lifestyle expectations. Tests Plain radiographs show: Loss of joint space, Osteophytes, Subarticular sclerosis and Subchondral cysts (fi g 12.4 p541). CRP may be slightly elevated.6 Management Core treatments: Exercise to improve local muscle strength and general aerobic fi tness (irrespective of age, severity, or comorbidity). Weight loss if overweight.7 Analgesia: Regular paracetamol ± topical NSAIDS. If ineff ective use codeine or short-term oral NSAID (+PPI)—see BOX. Topical capsaicin (derived from chillies) may help. Intra-articular steroid injections temporarily relieve pain in severe sym ptoms. Intra-articular hyaluronic acid injections (viscosupplementation) are not NICE approved8 Glucosamine and chondroitin products are not recommended, although patients may try them if they wish (can be bought over the counter). Non- pharmacological: Use a multidisciplinary approach, including physiotherapists and occupational therapists. Try heat or cold packs at the site of pain, walking aids, stretching/manipulation or TENS. Surgery: Joint replacement (hips, or knees) is the best way to deal with severe OA that has a substantial impact on quality of life. Septic arthritis Consider septic arthritis in any acutely infl amed joint, as it can destroy a joint in under 24h and has a mortaility rate up to 11%. Infl ammation may be less overt if im- munocompromised (eg from medication) or if there is underlying joint disease. The knee is aff ected in >50% cases. Risk factors Pre-existing joint disease (especially rheumatoid arthritis); diabetes mellitus, immunosuppression, chronic renal failure, recent joint surgery, prosthetic joints (where infection is particularly diffi cult to treat), IV drug abuse, age >80yrs.9 Investigations Urgent joint aspiration for synovial fl uid microscopy and culture is the key investigation (p541), as plain radiographs and CRP may be normal. The main diff erential diagnoses are the crystal arthropathies (p548). Blood cultures are es- sential (prior to
