Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


is the key investigation (p541), as plain radiographs and CRP may be normal. The main diff erential diagnoses are the crystal arthropathies (p548). Blood cultures are es- sential (prior to antibiotics). Ask yourself ‘How did the organism get there?’ Is there immuno suppression, or another focus of infection, eg from indwelling IV lines, infected skin, or pneumonia (present in up to 50% of those with pneumococcal arthritis)?10 Treatment If in doubt start empirical IV antibiotics (after aspiration) until sensi- tivities are known. Common causative organisms are Staph. aureus, streptococci, Neisseria gonococcus, and Gram Ωve bacilli. Follow local guidelines for antibiotic choice and contact microbiology for advice for all complex cases/immunosup- pressed patients (eg HIV). Consider fl ucloxacillin 2g QDS IV (clindamycin if penicillin allergic); Vancomycin IV plus 2nd- or 3rd-generation cephalosporin, eg cefuroxime if MRSA risk; 2nd- or 3rd-generation cephalosporin if Gram Ωve organisms suspected.11 For suspected gonococcus or meningococcus, consider ceftriaxone. Antibiotics are required for a prolonged period, conventionally ~2 weeks IV, then if patient improv- ing 2–4 weeks PO.12 Consider orthopaedic review for arthrocentesis, washout, and debridement; always urgently refer patients with prosthetic joint involvement. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 554444 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolotamuehR Prescribing NSAIDS: benefi t vs risk profi ling 545 Around 60% of patients will respond to any NSAID, but there is considerable vari- ation in response and tolerance—if one isn’t eff ective, try another. Mainly act as analgesics rather than modifying the disease process per se. NSAIDs caused ~2000 UK deaths in 2011.13 Individualized risk: benefi t analysis for each patient (including indication, dose, proposed duration of use, and comorbid- ity) is crucial and needs careful and experienced thought. Follow local recommen- dations and national guidelines where available. NSAID side effects: The main serious side eff ects are GI bleeding (and ulcers and perforation), cardiovascular events (MI and stroke), and renal injury. The risks are dose related, starting with the fi rst dose, so always aim to use the lowest possible dose for the shortest period of time. Risks increase considerably with age, polyp- harmacy, history of peptic ulcers, and renal impairment. GI side effects: NICE recommends co-prescription of PPI for any patient aged >45 years, and those with other risk factors for GI bleeding. Drug interactions can increase bleeding risks—avoid concomitant prescribing of anticoagulants, anti- platelet agents, SSRI, spironolactone, steroids, and bisphosphonates. Coxibs are slightly lower risk than non-selective NSAIDs. Cardiovascular side effects: NSAIDS—all are associated with
