Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


increase bleeding risks—avoid concomitant prescribing of anticoagulants, anti- platelet agents, SSRI, spironolactone, steroids, and bisphosphonates. Coxibs are slightly lower risk than non-selective NSAIDs. Cardiovascular side effects: NSAIDS—all are associated with a small increased risk of MI and stroke (independent of cardiovascular risk factor or duration of use).14 Risks are higher in those with concomitant IHD risk factors, eg diabetes and hypertension. Coxibs and diclofenac are higher risk, and are contraindicated if prior history of MI, PVD, stroke, or heart failure. Naproxen has the lowest cardiovas- cular risk. Low-dose celecoxib may be considered for patients on low-dose aspirin (if NSAID is required) as it does not interact with it.15 Renal risks: Higher for patients already on diuretics, ACE, or ARB. Risks are also increased in the elderly, those with hypertension and T2DM. Overall, naproxen (<1000mg/day) or ibuprofen (<1200mg/day) plus PPI may be the safest options. Alternatives to NSAIDs: Paracetamol, topical NSAIDs, opioids. Strengthening exer- cises may be more benefi cial than mild oral analgesics. Counselling patients: Make sure patients understand about the drugs they are taking: bleeding is more common in those who know less about their drugs.16 • Only to take NSAIDs when they need them. • Stop NSAIDs and seek urgent medical review if they develop abdominal pain or any symptoms of GI bleeding (eg report black stools ± faints immediately). • Do not mix prescription NSAIDs with over-the-counter formulations: mixing NSAIDS can increase risks 20-fold. • Smoking and alcohol increase risk profi le of NSAIDs. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 554455 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolotamuehR 546 Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) RA is a chronic systemic infl ammatory disease, characterized by a symmetrical, de- forming, peripheral polyarthritis. It increases the risk of cardiovascular disease by 2–3 fold. Epidemiology Prevalence is ~1% ( in smokers). : >2:1. Peak onset: 5th– 6th decade. HLA DR4/DR1 linked (associated with severity). Presentation Typically: Symmetrical swollen, painful, and stiff small joints of hands and feet, worse in the morning. This can fl uctuate and larger joints may become in- volved. Less common presentations: •Sudden onset, widespread arthritis. •Recur- ring mono/polyarthritis of various joints (palindromic RA).2 •Persistent monoarthritis (knee, shoulder, or hip). •Systemic illness with extra-articular symptoms, eg fa tigue, fever, weight loss, pericarditis, and pleurisy, but initially few joint problems (com- moner in ). •Polymyalgic onset—vague limb girdle aches. •Recurrent soft tissue problems (eg frozen shoulder, carpal tunnel syndrome, de Quervain’s tenosynovitis). Signs Early: (Infl ammation, no joint damage.) Swollen
