Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


antirheumatic drugs (DMARDS) are 1st line and should ideally be started within 3 months of persistent symptoms. They can take 6–12 weeks for symptomatic benefi t. Best results are often achieved with a combination of meth- otrexate, sulfasalazine, and hydroxychloroquine.23 Lefl unomide is another option. Immunosuppression is a potentially fatal SE of treatment (especially in combi- nation with methotrexate) which can result in pancytopenia, susceptibility to infection (including atypical organisms), and neutropenic sepsis (p352). Regular FBC, LFT monitoring.24 Other SE • Methotrexate—pneumonitis (pre treatment CXR), oral ulcers, hepa- totoxicity, teratogenic. • Sulfasalazine—rash, sperm count, oral ulcers, GI upset. • Lefl unomide—teratogenicity ( and ), oral ulcers, BP, hepatotoxicity. • Hydroxy- chloroquine—can cause retinopathy; pre treatment and annual eye screen required. Biological agents and NICE guidance Initiated by specialists, for patients with active disease despite adequate trial of at least 2 DMARDS. Pre treatment screening for TB, hepatitis B/C, HIV essential. 1 TNF inhibitors: Eg infl iximab (p265), etanercept, adalimumab, are approved by NICE as 1st-line agents. Where methotrexate is contraindicated, can be used as monotherapy. Clinical response can be striking, with improved function and health outcomes, although response may be inadequate/unsustained.25 2 B-cell depletion: Eg rituximab, used in combination with methotrexate and ap- proved by NICE for severe active RA where DMARDS and a TNF blocker have failed.26 3 IL-1 and IL-6 inhibition: Eg tocilizumab (IL-6 receptor blocker), approved by NICE in combination with methotrexate where TNF blocker has failed (or is contraindi- cated).27 Monitor for hypercholesterolaemia. 4 Inhibition of T-cell co-stimulation: Eg abatacept—licensed for active RA where patients have not responded to DMARDS or TNF blocker.28 Side eff ects of biological agents Serious infection, reactivation of TB ( screen and consider prophylaxis) and hepatitis B; worsening heart failure; hypersensitiv- ity; injection-site reactions and blood disorders. ANA and reversible SLE-type illness may evolve. Data suggests there is no increased risk of solid organ tumours but skin cancers may be more common.29 TNF inhibitors do not appear to be associated with a further increase in the already elevated lymphoma occurrence in RA.30 __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 554477 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolotamuehR 548 Crystal arthropathies: gout Gout31 typically presents with an acute monoarthropathy with severe joint infl am- mation (fi g 12.8). >50% occur at the metatarsophalangeal joint of the big toe (fi g 12.12) (podagra). Other common joints are the ankle, foot, small joints of the hand, wrist, elbow, or knee. It can be polyarticular.
