Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


with shared clinical features: 1 Seronegativity (= rheumatoid factor Ωve). 2 HLA B27 association—see BOX. 3 ‘Axial arthritis’: pathology in spine (spondylo-) and sacroiliac joints. 4 Asymmetrical large-joint oligoarthritis (ie< 5 joints) or monoarthritis. 5 Enthesitis: infl ammation of the site of insertion of tendon or ligament into bone, eg plantar fasci itis, Achilles tendonitis, costochondritis. 6 Dactylitis: infl ammation of an entire digit (‘sausage digit’), due to soft tissue oedema, and tenosynovial and joint infl ammation. 7 Extra-articular manifestations: eg iritis (anterior uveitis), psoriaform rashes (psoriatic arthritis), oral ulcers, aortic valve incompetence, infl ammatory bowel disease. NB: BehÇet’s syndrome (p694) can also present with uveitis, skin lesions, and a rthritis and is not always associated with gross oral or genital ulcerations. 1 Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) A chronic infl ammatory disease of the spine and sacroiliac joints, of unknown aetiology (likely strong genetic/environmental in- terplay). Prevalence: 0.25–1%. Men present earlier: : ~6:1 at 16yrs old, and ~2:1 at 30yrs old. ~90% are HLA B27 +ve (see BOX). Symptoms and signs: The typical patient is a man <30yrs old with gradual onset of low back pain,worse during the night with spinal morning stiff ness relieved by exercise. Pain radi- ates from sacroiliac joints to hips/buttocks, and usually improves towards the end of the day. There is progressive loss of spinal movement (all directions)— hence thoracic expansion. See pp540–2 for tests of spine fl exion and sacroiliitis. The disease course is variable; a few progress to kyphosis, neck hyperextension (question-mark posture; fi g 12.13), and spino-cranial ankylosis. Other features include enthesitis (see BOX), especially Achilles tendonitis, plantar fasciitis, at the tibial and ischial tuberosities, and at the iliac crests. Anterior mechanical chest pain due to costochondritis and fatigue may feature. Acute iritis occurs in ~⅓ of patients and may lead to blindness if untreated (but may also have occurred many years before, so enquire directly). AS is also associated with osteoporosis (up to 60%), aortic valve incompetence (<3%), and pulmonary apical fi brosis. Tests: Diagnosis is clinical, supported by imaging.4 MRI allows detection of active infl ammation (bone marrow oedema) as well as destructive changes such as erosions, sclerosis, and ankylosis. X-rays can show SI joint space narrowing or widening, sclerosis, erosions, and ankylosis/fusion. Vertebral syndesmophytes are characteristic (often T11–L1 initially): bony proliferations due to enthesitis between ligaments and vertebrae. These fuse with the vertebral body above, causing ankylosis. In later stages,
