Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


and ankylosis/fusion. Vertebral syndesmophytes are characteristic (often T11–L1 initially): bony proliferations due to enthesitis between ligaments and vertebrae. These fuse with the vertebral body above, causing ankylosis. In later stages, calcifi cation of ligaments with ankylosis lead to a ‘bamboo spine’ appearance. Also: FBC (normocytic anaemia), ESR, CRP, HLA B27 +ve (+ve in 90–95% of cases but only 5% of patients HLA B27 +ve have AS). Management: Exercise, not rest, for backache, including intense exercise regi- mens to maintain posture and mobility—ideally with a specialist physiotherapist. NSAIDS usually relieve symptoms within 48h, and may slow radiographic progres- sion.37 TNF BLOCKERS (eg etanercept, adalimumab) are indicated in severe ac- tive AS.38 Local steroid injections provide temporary relief. Surgery includes hip replacement to improve pain and mobility if the hips are involved, and rarely spinal osteotomy. There is risk of osteoporotic spinal fractures (consider bisphospho- nates). Prognosis: There is not always a clear relationship between the activity of arthritis and severity of underlying infl ammation (as for all the spondyloarth- ritides). Prognosis is worse if ESR >30; onset <16yrs; early hip involvement or poor response to NSAIDS.39 2 Enteric arthropathy Associations: Infl ammatory bowel disease, GI bypass, coeliac and Whipple’s disease (p716). Arthropathy often improves with the treat- ment of bowel symptoms (beware NSAIDS). Use DMARDS for resistant cases. 4 Sacroiliitis on imaging plus ≥1 SpA feature or HLA B27 positive plus ≥2 SpA features. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 555500 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolotamuehR 3 Psoriatic arthritis (OHCS p594.) Occurs in 10–40% with psoriasis and can present 551 before skin changes. Patterns are: •symmetrical polyarthritis (like RA) •DIP joints •asymmetrical oligoarthritis •spinal (similar to AS) •psoriatic arthritis mutilans (rare, ~3%, severe deformity). Radiology: Erosive changes, with ‘pencil-in-cup’ deformity in severe cases. Associated with nail changes in 80%, synovitis (dac- tylitis), acneiform rashes and palmo-plantar pustulosis. Management: NSAIDS, sulfasalazine, methotrexate. Anti-TNF agents are also eff ective. 4 Reactive arthritis A condition in which arthritis and other clinical manifesta- tions occur as an autoimmune response to infection elsewhere in the body— typically GI or GU, although the preceding infection may have resolved or be asymptomatic by the time the arthritis presents. Other clinical features: Iritis, keratoderma blenorrhagica (brown, raised plaques on soles and palms), circinate balanitis (painless penile ulceration secondary to Chlamydia), mouth ulcers, and enthesitis. Patients may present with a triad of urethritis, arthritis, and conjunc- tivitis (Reiter's syndrome). Tests: ESR & CRP. Culture stool if diarrhoea.
