Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


ESR & CRP are , platelets, ALP, Hb. Temporal artery bi- opsy within 14 days of starting steroids, or FDG-PET. Skip lesions occur, so don’t be put off by a negative biopsy (up to 10%). Management: Start prednisolone 60mg/d PO immediately or IV methylprednisolone if evolving visual loss or history of amau- rosis fugax.50 Prognosis: Typically a 2-year course, then complete remission. Reduce prednisolone once symptoms have resolved and ESR; dose if symptoms recur. Main cause of death and morbidity in GCA is long-term steroid treatment so balance risks! Give PPI, bisphosphonate, calcium with colecalciferol, and consider aspirin.6; 51 Polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) PAN is a necrotizing vasculitis that causes aneurysms and thrombosis in medium-sized arteries, leading to infarction in aff ected organs with severe systemic symptoms. :≈2:1. It may be associated with hepatitis B, and is rare in the UK. Symptoms: See BOX. Systemic features, skin (rash, ‘punched out’ ulcers, nodules), renal (main cause of death, renal artery narrowing, glomerular ischaemia, insuffi ciency, HTN), cardiac, GI, GU, neuro involvement. Usually spares lungs. Coronary aneurysms occur in Kawasaki disease (OHCS p646). Tests: Often WCC, mild eosinop hilia (in 30%), anaemia, ESR, CRP, ANCA Ωve. Renal or mesenteric angiography (see fi g 12.16), or renal biopsy can be diagnostic. Treatment: Control BP and refer. Steroids for mild cases and steroid-sparing agents if more severe. Hepatitis B should be treated (p278) after initial treatment with steroids.52 Microscopic polyangiitis A necrotizing vasculitis aff ecting small- and medium- sized vessels. Symptoms: Rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis usually features; pulmonary haemorrhage occurs in up to 30%; other features are rare. Tests: pANCA (MPO) +ve (p553). Treatment: Steroids plus eg methotrexate. For maintenance: meth- otrexate, rituximab, or azathioprine. Hypocomplementaemic urticarial vasculitis A lupus-like illness with urticaria and antibodies to complement (C1q). 6 Low-dose aspirin has been shown to decrease the rate of visual loss and cerebrovascular accidents in GCA but there are also confl icting reports regarding its effi cacy at preventing ischaemic events in GCA. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 555566 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolotamuehR Features of vasculitis 557 The presentation of vasculitis will depend on the organs aff ected: Systemic: Fever,malaise,weight loss,arthralgia,myalgia. Skin: Purpura, ulcers, livedo reticularis (fi g 12.17), nailbed infarcts, digital gangrene. Eyes: Episcleritis,scleritis,visual loss. ENT: Epistaxis, nasal crusting, stridor, deafness. Pulmonary: Haemoptysis and dyspnoea (due to pulmonary haemorrhage). Cardiac: Angina or MI (due to coronary arteritis), heart failure, and pericarditis. GI: Pain or perforation (infarcted viscus), malabsorption (chronic ischaemia).
