Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


deafness. Pulmonary: Haemoptysis and dyspnoea (due to pulmonary haemorrhage). Cardiac: Angina or MI (due to coronary arteritis), heart failure, and pericarditis. GI: Pain or perforation (infarcted viscus), malabsorption (chronic ischaemia). Renal: Hypertension, haematuria, proteinuria, casts, and renal failure (renal corti- cal infarcts; glomerulonephritis in ANCA +ve vasculitis). Neurological: Stroke, fi ts, chorea, psycho sis,confusion, impaired cognition, al- tered mood. Arteritis of the vasa nervorum (arterial supply to peripheral nerves) may cause mononeuritis multiplex or a sensorimotor polyneuropathy.53 GU: Orchitis—testicular pain or tenderness. Polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) PMR is not a true vasculitis and its pathogenesis is unknown. PMR and GCA share the same demographic characteristics and, although separate conditions, the two frequently occur together. Features: Age >50yrs; subacute onset (<2 weeks) of bilateral aching, tenderness, and morning stiff ness in shoulders, hips, and proximal limb muscles ± fatigue, fe- ver, weight, anorexia, and depression. There may be associated mild poly arthritis, tenosynovitis, and carpal tunnel syndrome (10%). Weakness is not a feature. Investigations: CRP, ESR typically >40 (but may be normal); AlkP is  in 30%. Note creatinine kinase levels are normal (helping to distinguish from myositis/myopathies). Differential diagnoses: Recent-onset RA, polymyositis, hypothyroidism, primary muscle disease, occult malignancy or infection, osteoarthritis (especially cervical spondylosis, shoulder OA), neck lesions, bilateral subacromial impingement (OHCS p666), spinal stenosis (OHCS p676). Management: Prednisolone 15mg/d PO. Expect a dramatic response within 1 week and consider an alternative diagnosis if not.  dose slowly, eg by 1mg/month (according to symptoms/ESR). Investigate apparent ‘fl ares’ during withdrawal— attributable to another condition? Most need steroids for ≥2yrs, so give bone pro- tection. Addition of methotrexate may be considered, under specialist supervision, for patients at risk of relapse/prolonged therapy. NSAIDS are not eff ective. Inform patients to seek urgent review if symptoms of GCA develop. Fig 12.17 Livedo reticularis: pink–blue Fig 12.16 Renal angiogram showing mottling caused by capillary dilata- multiple aneurysms in PAN. tion and stasis in skin venules. Causes: Courtesy of Dr William Herring. physio l ogical, cold, or vasculitis. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 555577 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolotamuehR 558 Fibromyalgia and chronic fatigue syndrome Fibromyalgia and chronic fatigue syndrome are part of a diff use group of overlap- ping syndromes, sharing similar demographic and clinical characteristics, in which chronic symptoms of fatigue and widespread pain feature prominently. Their exist- ence as discrete entities is controversial, especially in the absence of clear pathol- ogy, and some fi nd such dysfunctional diagnoses frustrating.
