Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


fatigue and widespread pain feature prominently. Their exist- ence as discrete entities is controversial, especially in the absence of clear pathol- ogy, and some fi nd such dysfunctional diagnoses frustrating. However, a correct diagnosis enables the doctor to give appropriate counselling and advise appropriate therapies, and allows the patient to begin to accept and deal with their symptoms. Fibromyalgia Fibromyalgia comprises up to 10% of new referrals to the rheumatology clinic.54 Prevalence: 0.5–4%. :≈6:1 but varies depending on which diagnostic criteria are used . Risk factors: BOX ‘Risk factors’. Female sex, middle age, low household income, di- vorced, low educational status. Associations: Other somatic syndromes such as chronic fatigue syndrome, irritable bowel syndrome (p266), and chronic headaches syndromes (see OHCS p502). Also found in ~25% of patients with RA, AS, and SLE. Features: Diagnosis depends on pain that is chronic (>3 months) and widespread (involves left and right sides, above and below the waist, and the axial skeleton). Profound fatigue is almost universal with complaint of unrefreshing sleep and signifi cant fatigue and pain with small increases in physical exertion. Additional features: morning stiff ness (~80–90%), paraesthesiae (without underlying cause), headaches (migraine and tension), poor concentration, low mood, and sleep distur- bance (~70%). Widespread and severe tender points. Investigations: All normal. Diagnosis is clinical. Over-investigation can consolidate illness behaviour; but exclude other causes of pain and/or fatigue (eg RA, PMR see p557, vasculitis see p556, hypothyroidism see p220, myeloma see p368). Management: Multidisciplinary with optimal results coming from full engagement of the patient who should be encouraged to remain as active as they feel able, and ideally to continue to participate in the workforce. New symptoms should be fully reviewed to exclude an alternative diagnosis. Patients should be advised that there is no one specifi c treatment that is guaranteed to work, but any of the following may help: graded exercise programmes, including both aerobic and strength-based train- ing. Pacing of activity is vital to avoid over-exertion and consequent pain and fatigue. Long-term graded exercise programmes improve functional capacity.55, 56 Relaxa- tion, rehabilitation and physiotherapy may also help. Cognitive-behavioural therapy (CBT) aims to help patients develop coping strategies and set achievable goals.57 Pharmacotherapy: Low-dose amitriptyline (eg 10–20mg at night) has been shown to help relieve pain and improve sleep. Pregabalin (150–300mg/12h PO) can be used if amitriptyline is ineff ective. Duloxetine or an SSRI can be used for fi bromyalgia
