Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


been shown to help relieve pain and improve sleep. Pregabalin (150–300mg/12h PO) can be used if amitriptyline is ineff ective. Duloxetine or an SSRI can be used for fi bromyalgia with comorbid anxiety and depression. Steroids or NSAIDS are not recommended because there is no infl ammation (if it does respond, reconsider your diagnosis!). Chronic fatigue syndrome (AKA myalgic encephalomyelitis) Chronic fatigue syndrome58 is defi ned as persistent disabling fatigue lasting >6 months, aff ecting mental and physical function, present >50% of the time, plus ≥4 of: myalgia (~80%), polyarthralgia, memory, unrefreshing sleep, fatigue after exer- tion >24h, persistent sore throat, tender cervical/axillary lymph nodes. Management principles are similar to fi bromyalgia and include graded exercise and CBT. No phar- macological agents have yet been proved eff ective for chronic fatigue syndrome (see also OHCS p502). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 555588 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolotamuehR Risk factors: yellow fl ags 559 Psychosocial risk factors for developing persisting chronic pain and long-term disability have been termed ‘yellow fl ags’: 59 Belief that pain and activity are harmful. Sickness behaviours such as extended rest. Social withdrawal. Emotional problems such as low mood, anxiety, or stress. Problems or dissatisfaction at work. Problems with claims for compensation or time off work. Overprotective family or lack of support. Inappropriate expectations of treatment, eg low active participation in treatment. An existential approach to diffi cult symptoms The manner in which management is discussed is almost as important as the management itself, which should focus on education of the patient and their fam- ily and on developing coping strategies. Such a diagnosis may be a relief or a disappointment to the patient. Explain that fi bromyalgia is a relapsing and re- mitting condition, with no easy cures, and that they will continue to have good and bad days. Reassure them that there is no serious underlying pathology, that their joints are not being damaged, and that no further tests are necessary, but be sympathetic to the fact that they may have been seeking a physical cause for their symptoms. We all at some stage come across a patient with diffi cult symptoms and an exasperating lack of pathology to explain them. Investigations are all normal, and medications do not seem to work. It is tempting to dismiss such patients as malingerers, but often this conclusion comes from the clinician approaching the problem from the wrong angle. The patient has symptoms that
