Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


work. It is tempting to dismiss such patients as malingerers, but often this conclusion comes from the clinician approaching the problem from the wrong angle. The patient has symptoms that are real and disa- bling to them, and that will not improve without help. Perhaps a more pragmatic approach is to take advice from the Danish philosopher Kierkegaard who wrote to a friend in 1835, ‘What I really lack is to be clear in my mind what I am to do, not what I am to know ... The thing is to understand myself ... to fi nd a truth which is true for me.’ Listen to the patient and accept their story. Then help them to focus on what they can do to improve their situation, and to move away from dwelling on fi nding a physical answer to their symptoms. Pathogenesis of fi bromyalgia The current hypothesis is that fi bromyalgia is caused by aberrant peripheral and central pain processing. Two key features of the condition are allodynia (pain in re- sponse to a non-painful stimulus) and hyperaesthesia (exaggerated perception of pain in response to a mildly painful stimulus), examined for by palpation of tender points. Research is beginning to suggest that certain antidepressants can relieve pain and other symptoms, and especially those that have both serotonergic and noradrenergic activity (tricyclics and venlafaxine). Those acting on serotonergic receptors only are less eff ective. There is also some evidence to support the use of alternative therapies such as acupuncture and spa therapies, which have been postulated to act through similar spinal pain-modulatory pathways.60 Thus far, trials have involved relatively small numbers of patients or short time periods, and lack the power to draw strong conclusions. However, it is interesting to note that the CSF of patients with fi bromyalgia appears to have increased levels of sub- stance P, while levels of noradrenaline and serotonin metabolites are decreased. All three are neurotransmitters involved in descending pain-modulatory pathways in the spinal cord.61, 62 Evidence from PET imaging suggests that patients with fi bro- myalgia may have an abnormal central dopamine response to pain.63 The critical question is: is this cause or eff ect? __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 555599 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygolotamuehR 560 Systemic conditions causing eye signs The eye is host to many diseases: the more you look, the more you’ll see, and the more you’ll enjoy, not least because the eye is as
