Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


necrotizing fasciitis 660 Skin ulcers 660 We thank Mr Antonio Foliaki, our Specialist Reader for this chapter, and Mr William Breakey, for their contribution to this chapter. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 556644 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS Th e language of surgery 556655 1 Right upper quadrant (RUQ) or hypochondrium. 2 Epigastrium. 3 Left upper quadrant (LUQ) or hypochondrium. 4 Right fl ank (merges posteriorly with right loin, p57). 5 Periumbilical or central area. 6 Left fl ank (merges posteriorly with left loin, p57). 7 Right iliac fossa (RIF). 8 Suprapubic area. Fig 13.2 Abdominal areas. 9 Left iliac fossa (LIF). Fig 13.3 Incisions. -ectomy Cutting something out. -gram A radiological image. -pexy Anchoring of a structure to keep it in position. -plasty Surgical refashioning in order to regain function/cosmesis. -scopy Procedure with instrumentation for looking into the body. -stomy An artifi cial union between a conduit and the outside or another conduit. -tomy Cutting something open to the outside world. -tripsy Fragmentation of an object. angio- Tube or vessel lith- Stone appendic- Appendix mast- Breast chole- Relating to gall/bile meso- Mesentery colp- Vagina nephr- Kidney cyst- Bladder orchid- Testicle -doch- Ducts oophor- Ovary enter- Small bowel phren- Diaphragm eschar- Dead tissue, eg from burn pyloro- Pyloric sphincter gastr- Stomach pyel- Renal pelvis hepat- Liver proct- Anal canal hyster- Uterus salping- Fallopian tube lapar- Abdomen splen- Spleen abscess A cavity containing pus. Remember: if there is pus about, let it out. colic Intermittent pain from over-contraction/obstruction of a hollow viscus. cyst Fluid-fi lled cavity lined by epi/endothelium. fi stula An abnormal connection between two epithelial surfaces. Fistulae often close spontaneously, but will not in the presence of malignant tissue, dis- tal obstruction, foreign bodies, chronic infl ammation, and the formation of a muco-cutaneous junction (eg stoma). hernia The protrusion of a viscus/part of a viscus through a defect of the wall of its containing cavity into an abnormal position. ileus Used in this book as a term for adynamic bowel. sinus A blind-ending tract, typically lined by epithelial or granulation tissue, which opens to an epithelial surface. stent An artifi cial tube placed in a biological tube to keep it open. stoma (p582) An artifi cial union between conduits or a conduit and the outside. ulcer (p660) Interruption in the continuity of an epi/endothelial surface. volvulus (p611) Twisting of a structure around itself. Common GI sites include the sigmoid colon and caecum, and more rarely
