Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


ulcer (p660) Interruption in the continuity of an epi/endothelial surface. volvulus (p611) Twisting of a structure around itself. Common GI sites include the sigmoid colon and caecum, and more rarely the stomach. epi- Upon pan- Whole peri- Around end- Inside para- Alongside sub- Beneath mega- Enlarged per- Going through trans- Across __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 556655 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yyrreeggrruuSS 566 Pre-operative care Aims To provide diagnostic and prognostic information. Ensures the patient under- stands the nature, aims, and expected outcome of surgery. To allay anxiety and pain: • Ensure that the right patient gets the right surgery. Have the symptoms and signs changed? If so, inform the surgeon. • Assess/balance risks of anaesthesia, and maximize fi tness. Comorbidities? Drugs? Smoker? Optimizing oxygenation before major surgery improves outcome. • Obtain informed consent (p568). • Check proposed anaesthesia/analgesia with anaesthetist. Family history May be relevant, eg in malignant hyperpyrexia (p572); dystrophia myotonica (p510); porphyria; cholinesterase problems; sickle-cell disease. Drugs Any drug/plaster/antiseptic allergies? Inform the anaesthetist about all drugs even if ‘over-the-counter’. Steroids: see p590; diabetes: see p588. • Antibiotics: Tetracycline and neomycin may  neuromuscular blockade. • Anticoagulants: Tell the surgeon. Avoid epidural, spinal, and regional blocks. Aspirin should probably be continued unless there is a major risk of bleeding. Dis- cuss stopping clopidogrel therapy with the cardiologists/neurologists. See p590. • Anticonvulsants: Give as usual pre-op. Post-op, give drugs IV (or by NGT) until able to take orally. Valproate: give usual dose IV. Phenytoin: give IV slowly (<50mg/min, on cardiac monitor). IM phenytoin absorption is unreliable. • -blockers: Continue up to and including the day of surgery as this precludes a labile cardiovascular response. • Contraceptive pill: See BNF. Stop 4wks before major/leg surgery; ensure alterna- tive contraception is used. Restart 2wks after surgery, provided patient is mobile. • Digoxin: Continue up to and including morning of surgery. Check for toxicity (ECG; plasma level); do plasma K+ and Ca2+ (suxamethonium can K+ and lead to ventricu- lar arrhythmias in the fully digitalized). • Diuretics: Beware hypokalaemia, dehydration. Do U&E (and bicarbonate). • Eye-dr o ps: -blockers get systemically absorbed. • HRT: As with contraceptive pill there may be an increased risk of DVT/PE. • Levodopa: Possible arrhythmias when patient under GA. • Lithium: Get expert help; may potentiate neuromuscular blockade and cause ar- rhythmias. See OHCS p349. • MAOIS: Get expert help as interactions may cause hypotensive/hypertensive crises. • Thyroid medication: see p600. • Tricyclics:
