Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


help; may potentiate neuromuscular blockade and cause ar- rhythmias. See OHCS p349. • MAOIS: Get expert help as interactions may cause hypotensive/hypertensive crises. • Thyroid medication: see p600. • Tricyclics: These enhance adrenaline (epinephrine) and arrhythmias. Preparation Starve patient; NBM ≥2h pre-op for clear fl uids and ≥6h for solids.1 • Is any bowel or skin preparation needed, or prophylactic antibiotics (p570)? • Start DVT prophylaxis as indicated, eg graduated compression stockings (CI in pe- ripheral arterial disease); LMWH (p350): eg moderate risk, 20mg ~2h pre-op then 20mg/24h; high risk (eg orthopaedic surgery), 40mg 12h pre-op then 40mg/24h; or heparin 5000U SC 2h pre-op, then every 8–12h SC for 7d or until ambulant. • Ensure necessary premedications (p572), regular medications, analgesia, anti- emetics, antibiotics are all prescribed as appropriate. Confi rm NBM. • Book any pre-, intra-, or post-operative x-rays or frozen sections. • Book post-operative physiotherapy. • If needed, site IV cannula, catheterize (p762), and/or insert a Ryle’s tube (p759). • Meta-analyses have shown no benefi t to patients from mechanical bowel cleansing before colonic surgery—this is no longer considered good practice. There is also no evidence for the use of enemas prior to rectal surgery. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 556666 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS Pre-operative history, examination, and tests 567 It is the anaesthetist’s responsibility to assess suitability for anaesthesia. The ward doctor assists with a good history and examination, should anticipate nec- essary tests, and can also reassure and inform the patient. The surgical team should consent the patient. The World Health Organization ‘Surgical Safety Checklist’ should be completed for every patient undergoing a surgical procedure, ensuring pre-operative prepa- ration, intra-operative monitoring, and post-operative review. History Assess past history of: MI1, diabetes, asthma, hypertension, rheumatic fe- ver, epilepsy, jaundice. Existing illnesses, drugs, and allergies? Be alert to chronic lung disease, BP, arrhyt hmias, and murmurs. Assess any specifi c risks, eg is the patient pregnant? Is the neck/jaw immobile and teeth stable (intubation risk)? Has there been previous anaesthesia? Were there any complications (eg nausea, DVT)? Examination Assess cardiorespiratory system, exercise tolerance. Is the neck unstable (eg arthritis complicating intubation)? Is DVT/PE prophy laxis needed (p578)? For ‘unilateral’ surgery, mark the correct arm/leg/kidney (surgeon). Tests Be guided by the history and examination and local/NICE protocols. • U&E, FBC, and fi nger-prick blood glucose in most patients. If Hb <100g/L tell anaesthetist. Investigate/treat as appropriate. U&E are particularly important if the patient
