Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


examination and local/NICE protocols. • U&E, FBC, and fi nger-prick blood glucose in most patients. If Hb <100g/L tell anaesthetist. Investigate/treat as appropriate. U&E are particularly important if the patient is starved, diabetic, on diuretics, a burns patient, has hepatic or renal disease, has an ileus, or is parenterally fed. • Crossmatch: Blood type is identifi ed and units are allocated to the patient. Group and save (G&S): Blood type is identifi ed and held, pending crossmatch (if required). Contact your lab to discuss requirements—this decreases wastage and allows increased effi ciency of blood stocks. • Specifi c blood tests: LFT in jaundice, malignancy, or alcohol abuse. Amylase in acute abdominal pain. Blood glucose if diabetic (p588). Drug levels as appropri- ate (eg digoxin, lithium). Clotting studies in liver or renal disease, DIC (p352), massive blood loss, or if on valproate, warfarin, or heparin. HIV, HBsAg in high-risk patients, after counselling. Sickle test in those from Africa, West Indies, or Medi- terranean—and if origins are in malarial areas (including most of India). Thyroid function tests in those with thyroid disease. • CXR if known cardiorespiratory disease, pathology, or symptoms or >65yrs old. Remember to check the fi lm prior to surgery. • ECG if >55yrs old or poor exercise tolerance, or history of myocardial ischaemia, hypertension, rheumatic fever, or other heart disease. • Echocardiogram may be performed if there is a suspicion of poor LV function. • Pulmonary function tests in known pulmonary disease/obesity. • Lateral cervical spine X-ray (fl exion and extension views) if history of rheumatoid arthritis/ankylosing spondylitis/Down’s syndrome, to warn of diffi cult intubations. • MRSA screen: Screen and decolonize nasal carriers according to local policy (eg nasal mupirocin ointment). Colonization is not a cont ra indication to surgery. Place patients last on the list to minimize transmission to others and cover with appropriate antibiotic prophylaxis, eg vancomycin or teicoplanin. Consider and document major blood-borne virus risk (HIV/HBV/HCV) according to local policies. American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) classifi cation Class I Normally healthy patient. Class II Mild systemic disease. Class III Severe systemic disease that limits activity but is not incapacitating. Class IV Incapacitating systemic disease which poses a constant threat to life. Class V Moribund: not expected to survive 24h even with operation. You will see a space for an ASA number on most anaesthetic charts. It is a health. index at the time of surgery.
