Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


expected to survive 24h even with operation. You will see a space for an ASA number on most anaesthetic charts. It is a health. index at the time of surgery. The suffi x E is used in emergencies, eg ASA 2E. 1 If within the last 6 months, the perioperative risk of re-infarction (up to 40%) makes most elective surgery too risky. ECHO, and stress testing (+ exercise ECG or MUGA scan, p741) should be done. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 556677 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 568 Consent In which of the following situations would you seek ‘informed written consent’ from a patient? 1 Feeling for a pulse. 2 Taking blood. 3 Inserting a central line. 4 Removing a section of small bowel during a laparotomy for division of adhesions. 5 Orchidectomy after a failed operation for testicular torsion. English law states that any intervention or treatment needs consent—ie all of the above—yet, for diff erent reasons. In fact, written consent itself is not required by law, but it does constitute ‘good medical practice’ in the best interests of the patient and practitioner. Sometimes actions and words can imply valid consent, eg by simply entering into conversation or holding out an arm. If the consequences are not clear and the patient has capacity to give consent, you should seek informed written consent as a record of your conversation. For consent to be valid • It can be given any time before the intervention/treatment is initiated. Earlier is better as this will give the patient time to think about the risks, benefi ts, and al- ternatives—he or she may even bring forward questions on issues that you had not considered relevant. Think of consent as an ongoing process throughout the patient’s time with you, not just the moment of signing the form. • The proposed treatment or test must be clearly understood by the patient, taking into account the benefi ts, risks (including complication rates if known), additional procedures, alternative courses of action, and their consequences. • It must be given voluntarily. This can be diffi cult to evaluate—eg when live organ donation is being considered—see BOX ‘Special circumstances for consent’ for other diffi cult situations. • The doctor providing treatment or undertaking the test needs to ensure that the patient has given valid consent. The act of seeking consent is ultimately the respon- sibility of the doctor looking after the patient, though the task may
