Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


to ensure that the patient has given valid consent. The act of seeking consent is ultimately the respon- sibility of the doctor looking after the patient, though the task may be delegated to another health professional, as long as they are suitably trained and qualifi ed. Capacity relates to the ability to 1 understand, 2 retain, and 3 weigh up relevant information and 4 communicate the decision. Capacity is not a fi xed state, but is specifi c to any given time and decision—a person may lack capacity to be involved in a particular complex decision but retain capacity to decide other aspects of their care, or recover capacity as they recover from acute illness. Therefore, do not label anyone as unable to make a decision unless you have taken all practicable steps to help them to do so without success—non-urgent decisions should always be deferred if there is a chance to recover capacity. When acting on behalf of a person who lacks capacity, do so in their best interests and involve family members or an appointed surrogate where clinical urgency allows. When taking consent • Does the patient currently have capacity for the decision in question? • Are you the right person to be obtaining consent?2 • Use words the patient understands and avoid jargon and abbreviations. • Ensure that they believe your facts and can retain ‘pros’ and ‘cons’ long enough to inform their decision. Fact sheets/diagrams for individual operations help. • Make sure their choice is free from pressure from others, and explain that they can withdraw consent at any time after the form is signed. Some patients may view the consent form as a contract from which they cannot renege. • If the patient is illiterate, a witnessed mark does endorse valid consent. Similarly, if the patient is willing but physically unable to sign the consent form, then a wit- nessed entry into the medical notes stating so is valid. • Remember to discuss further procedures that may become necessary during the proposed treatment. This avoids waking up to a nasty surprise (eg a missing testi- cle as in scenario 5 earlier in this topic). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 556688 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS Special circumstances for consent 569 Consent is complex, but remember that it exists for the benefi t of the patient and the doctor, giving you an opportunity to revisit expectations and involve the patient in their
