Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


trust between the patient and doctor, remembering that it is the patient’s right to refuse treatment (if a fully competent adult) even when this may result in the death of the patient, or even the death of an unborn child, whatever the stage of pregnancy. The only exceptions apply to treatment of mental health disorders (see eg in England and Wales the Mental Health Act 2007). 2 If in any doubt, turn to: your senior/consultant; your employing organization; your legal defence organiza- tion; your national medical association; your local research ethics committee. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 556699 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 570 Prophylactic antibiotics in surgery Prophylactic antibiotics are given to counter the risk of wound infection (see table 13.1), which occurs in ~20% of elective GI surgery (up to 60% in emergency surgery). Antibiotics are also given if infection elsewhere, although unlikely, would have severe consequences (eg when prostheses are involved). A single dose given before surgery has been shown to be just as good as more prolonged regimens in biliary and colo- rectal surgery. Additional doses may be given if high-risk/prolonged procedures, or if major blood loss. Wound infections are not necessarily trivial since sepsis may lead to haemorrhage, wound dehiscence, and initiate a fatal chain of events, so take measures to minimize the risk of wound infection: • Time administration correctly (eg IV prophylaxis should be given 30min prior to surgery to maximize skin concentration; metronidazole PR is given 2h before). • Use antibiotics which will kill anaerobes and coliforms. • Consider use of peri-operative supplemental oxygen. This is a practical method of reducing the incidence of surgical wound infections. • Practise strictly sterile surgical technique. (Ask for a hand with scrubbing up if you are not sure—theatre staff will be more than pleased to help!) Antibiotic regimens Adhere to local guidelines. BNF examples include: • Appendicectomy; colorectal resections and open biliary surgery:A single dose of IV piperacillin/tazobactam 4.5g/8h or gentamicin 1.5mg/kg + metronidazole 500mg or co-amoxiclav 1.2g alone. • Oesophageal or gastric surgery: 1 dose of IV gentamicin or piperacillin/tazo- bactam or co-amoxiclav (doses as for appendicectomy). • Vascular surgery: 1 dose of IV piperacillin/tazobactam or fl ucloxacillin 1–2g + gentamicin. Add metronidazole if risk of anaerobes (eg amputations, gangrene, or diabetes). • MRSA: For high-risk patients add teicoplanin or vancomycin to the above-listed regimens. Table 13.1 Classifi cation of surgical procedures and wound infection risk Category Description Infection risk
