Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


or diabetes). • MRSA: For high-risk patients add teicoplanin or vancomycin to the above-listed regimens. Table 13.1 Classifi cation of surgical procedures and wound infection risk Category Description Infection risk Clean Incising uninfected skin without opening a viscus <2% Clean-contaminated Intra-operative breach of a viscus (but not colon) 8–10% Contaminated Breach of a viscus + spillage or opening of colon 12–20% Dirty The site is already contaminated with pus or 25% faeces, or from exogenous contagion, eg trauma Data from MRCS Core Modules: Essential Revision Notes, S. Andrews, Pastest. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 557700 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS Sutures 571 Sutures are central to the art of surgery. No single suture fi ts the bill for every occasion, and so suture selection (including size) depends on the job in hand (see tables 13.2, 13.3). In their broadest sense they are absorbable or non-absorbable, synthetic or natural, and their structure may be divided into monofi lament, twisted, or braided. Monofi lament sutures are quite slippery but minimize infection and pro- duce less reaction. Braided sutures have plaited strands and provide secure knots, but they may allow infection to occur in surrounding tissue between their strands. Twisted sutures have 2 twisted strands and similar qualities to braided sutures. Sizes are denoted according to a scale running down from #5 (heavy braided suture). Most common modern sutures are smaller than size #0, hence rising numbers with a -0 suffi x correspond to progressively fi ner grades of suture up to 11–0 (fi ne ophthalmic monofi laments). 3–0 or 4–0 are the best sizes for skin closure. Timing of suture re- moval depends on site and the general health of the patient. Face and neck sutures may be removed after 5d (earlier in children), scalp and back of neck after 5d, ab- dominal incisions and proximal limbs (including clips) after ~10d, distal extremities after 14d. In patients with poor wound healing, eg steroids, malignancy, infection, cachexia (p35), the elderly, or smokers, sutures may need ~14d. Some commonly encountered suture materials Absorbable Table 13.2 Absorbable suture materials Name Material Construction Use Monocryl® Poliglecaprone Monofi lament Subcuticular skin closure PDS® Polydioxanone Monofi lament Closing abdominal wall Vicryl® Polyglactin Braided multifi lament Tying pedicles; bowel anasto mosis; subcutaneous closure Dexon® Polyglycolic acid Braided multifi lament Very similar to Vicryl® Non-absorbable Table 13.3 Non-absorbable suture materials Name Material Construction Use Ethilon® Polyamide Monofi lament Closing skin wounds Prolene® Polypropylene Monofi lament Arterial
