Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


acid Braided multifi lament Very similar to Vicryl® Non-absorbable Table 13.3 Non-absorbable suture materials Name Material Construction Use Ethilon® Polyamide Monofi lament Closing skin wounds Prolene® Polypropylene Monofi lament Arterial anastomosis Mersilk®N Silk Braided multifi lament Securing drains Metal Eg steel Clips or monofi lament Skin wound/sternotomy closure N = natural; other natural materials (eg cotton and catgut) are rarely used these days. Surgical drains in the post-operative period The decision when to insert and remove drains may seem to be one of the great surgical enigmas—but there are basically three types to get a grip of: 1 To drain the area of surgery and are often put under suction or Ωve pressure (Redivac® uses a ‘high vacuum’). These are removed when they stop draining. They protect against collection, haematoma, and seroma formation(in breast surgery this can cause overlying skin necrosis). 2 To protect sites where leakage may occur in post-operative period, eg bowel anastomoses. These form a tract and are removed after about 1wk. 3 To collect red blood cells from the site of the operation, which can then be autotransfused within 6h, protecting from the hazards of allotransfusion—it is used commonly in orthopaedics. (eg Bellovac®). ‘Shortening a drain’ means withdrawing it (eg by 2cm/d) to allow the tract to seal, bit by bit. Check the surgeon’s wishes before altering a drain. If a drain ‘falls out’ on the ward, avoid re-siting it because it is now covered in skin fl ora. Put a collecting bag over the wound and contact surgical registrar. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 557711 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 572 Anaesthesia Before anaesthesia, explain to the patient what will happen and where they will wake up, otherwise the recovery room or ITU will be frightening. Explain that they may feel ill on waking. The premedication aims to allay anxiety and to make the anaesthesia itself easier to conduct (see BOX). Typical regimens might include: • Anxiolytics: Benzodiazepines, eg lorazepam 2mg PO; temazepam 10–20mg PO. In children, use oral premeds as fi rst choice, eg midazolam 0.5mg/kg (tastes bitter so often put in paracetamol suspension). Give oral premedication 2h before surgery (1h if IM route used). • Analgesics: See p574. Pre-emptive analgesia is not often used and eff ects are hard to determine. The aim is to dampen pain signals before they arrive. In children or anxious adults, local anaesthetic cream may be used on a few sites before inserting an
