Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


to determine. The aim is to dampen pain signals before they arrive. In children or anxious adults, local anaesthetic cream may be used on a few sites before inserting an IVI (the anaesthetist may prefer to site the cannula themselves!). • Anti-emetics: Post-operative nausea and vomiting is experienced by ~25% of all patients. 5HT3 antagonists (eg ondansetron 4mg IV/IM) are the most eff ective agents; others, eg metoclopramide 10mg/8h IV/IM/PO, are also used—see p251. • Antacids: Ranitidine 50mg IV or omeprazole 40mg PO/IV if aspiration risk. • Antisialogues: Glycopyrronium (200–400mcg in adults, 4–8mcg/kg in children; given IV/IM 30–60min before induction) is sometimes used to decrease secretions that may cause respiratory obstruction in smaller airways. • Antibiotics: See p570. Side-eff ects of anaesthetic agents • Hyoscine, atropine: Anticholinergic,  tachycardia, urinary retention, glaucoma, sedation (especially in the elderly). • Opioids: Respiratory depression, cough refl ex, nausea and vomiting, constipation. • Thiopental: (Induction agent.) Laryngospasm. • Propofol: (Induction agent.) Respiratory/cardiac depression, pain on injection. • Volatile agents, eg isofl urane: Nausea and vomiting, cardiac depression, respira- tory depression, vasodilation, hepatotoxicity (see BNF). The complications of anaesthesia are due to loss of: • Pain sensation: Urinary retention, pressure necrosis, local nerve injuries (eg radial nerve palsy from arm hanging over the table edge). • Consciousness: Cannot communicate ‘wrong leg/kidney’. NB: in some patients (eg 0.15%) retained consciousness is the problem. Awareness under GA sounds like a contradiction of terms, but remember that anaesthesia is a process rather than an event. Such awareness can lead to ill-defi ned, delayed neuroses and post-traumatic stress disorder (OHCS p353). • Muscle power: Corneal abrasion ( tape the eyes closed), no respiration, no cough (leads to pneumonia and atelectasis—partial lung collapse causing shunting ± im- paired gas exchange: it starts minutes after induction, and may be related to the use of 100% O2, supine position, surgery, age, and to loss of power). Local/regional anaesthesia If unfi t/unwilling to undergo general anaesthesia, lo- cal nerve blocks (eg brachial plexus) or spinal blocks (contraindication: anticoagula- tion, local infection) using long-acting local anaesthetics such as bupivacaine may be indicated. See table 13.4 for doses and toxicity eff ects. Drugs complicating anaesthesia Inform anaesthetist. See p566 for lists of spe- cifi c drugs, and actions to take. Malignant hyperpyrexia This is a rare complication, precipitated by any volatile agent, eg halothane, or suxamethonium. It exhibits autosomal dominant inheritance. There is a rapid
