Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


on clinical fi ndings. Confusion may manifest as agitation, disorientation, and attempts to leave hospital, especially at night. Gently reassure the patient in well-lit surroundings. See p484 for a full work-up. Common causes are: • hypoxia (pneumonia, atelectasis, LVF, PE) • infection (see earlier) • drugs (opiates, sedatives, and many others) • alcohol withdrawal (p280) • urinary retention • liver/renal failure. • MI or stroke Occasionally, sedation is necessary to examine the patient; consider lorazepam 1mg PO/IM (antidote: fl umazenil) or haloperidol 0.5–2mg IM. Reassure relatives that post- op confusion is common (seen in up to 40%) and reversible. Dyspnoea or hypoxia Any previous lung disease? Sit patient up and give O2, m onitor peripheral O2 sats by pulse oximetry (p162). Examine for evidence of: •pneum onia, pulmonary collapse, or aspiration •LVF (MI; fl uid overload) •pulmonary embolism (p190) •pneumothorax (p190; due to CVP line, intercostal block, or mechanical ventila- tion). Tests: FBC; ABG; CXR; ECG. Manage according to fi ndings. BP If severe, tilt bed head-down and give O2. Check pulse and BP yourself; compare it with pre-op values. Post-op BP is often from hypovolaemia resulting from inad- equate fl uid input, so check fl uid chart and replace losses. Monitor urine output (may need catheterization). A CVP line can help monitor fl uid resuscitation (normal is 0–5cmH2O relative to sternal angle). Hypovolaemia may also be caused by haem- orrhage so review wounds, drains, and abdomen. If unstable, return to theatre for haemostasis. Beware cardiogenic and neurogenic causes and look for evidence of MI or PE. Consider sepsis and anaphylaxis. Management: p790. BP may be from pain, urinary retention, idiopathic hypertension (eg missed medi- cation), or inotropic drugs. Oral cardiac medications (including antihypertensives) should be continued throughout the perioperative period even if NBM. Treat the cause, consider increasing the regular medication, or if not absorbing orally try 50mg labetalol IV over 1min (see p140). Urine output (oliguria) Aim for output of >30mL/h in adults (or >0.5mL/kg/h). Anuria may refl ect a blocked or malsited catheter (see p763) rather than AKI. Flush or replace catheter. Oliguria is usually due to too little replacement of lost fl uid. Treat by increasing fl uid input. Acute kidney injury may follow shock, drugs, transfusion, pancreatitis, or trauma (see p300 for classifi cation and management of AKI). • Review fl uid chart and examine for signs of volume depletion. • Urinary retention is also
