Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


risk. Inferior vena caval fi lters may be used in active bleeding, or when anticoagulants fail, to minimize risk of PE. Post-phlebitic change (pain, swelling, and skin changes) can be seen in 10–30%— graduated compression stockings may help. Pretest clinical probability scoring for DVT: the Wells score In patients with symptoms in both legs, the more symptomatic leg is used. Table 13.5 Wells score Clinical features Score Active cancer (treatment within last 6 months or palliative) 1 point Paralysis, paresis, or recent plaster immobilization of leg 1 point Recently bedridden for >3d or majory surgery in last 12wks 1 point Local tenderness along distribution of deep venous system 1 point Entire leg swollen 1 point Calf swelling >3cm compared with asymptomatic leg (measured 1 point 10cm below tibial tuberosity) Pitting oedema (greater in the symptomatic leg) 1 point Collateral superfi cial veins (non-varicose) 1 point Previously documented DVT 1 point Alternative diagnosis at least as likely as DVT Ω2 points Reprinted from the Lancet, 350, Wells PS et al., 'Value of assessment of pretest probability of deep-vein thrombosis in clinical management', 1795–8, Copyright 1997, with permission from Elsevier. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 557788 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS Swollen legs 579 Bilateral oedema implies systemic disease with venous pressure (eg right heart failure) or intravascular oncotic pressure (any cause of albumin, so test the urine for protein). It is dependent (distributed by gravity), which is why legs are aff ected early, but severe oedema extends above the legs. In the bed-bound, fl uid moves to the new dependent area, causing a sacral pad. The exception is the local increase in venous pressure occurring in IVC obstruction: the swelling neither extends above the legs nor redistributes. Causes: •Right heart failure (p134). •Albumin (p686, eg renal or liver failure). •Venous insuffi ciency: acute, eg prolonged sitting, or chronic, with haemosiderin-pigmented, itchy, eczematous skin ± ulcers. •Vaso dilators, eg nifedipine, amlodipine. •Pelvic mass (p57, p604). •Pregnancy—if BP + proteinuria, diagnose pre-eclampsia (OHCS p48): fi nd an obstetrician urgently. In all the above, both legs need not be aff ected to the same extent. Unilateral oedema Pain ± redness implies DVT or infl ammation, eg cellulitis or in- sect bites (any blisters?). Bone or muscle may be to blame, eg tumours; necrotizing fasciitis (p660); trauma (check for sensation, pulses, and severe pain esp. on pas- sive movement: a compartment syndrome with ischaemic necrosis needs prompt fasciotomy). Impaired mobility suggests
