Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


eg tumours; necrotizing fasciitis (p660); trauma (check for sensation, pulses, and severe pain esp. on pas- sive movement: a compartment syndrome with ischaemic necrosis needs prompt fasciotomy). Impaired mobility suggests trauma, arthritis, or a Baker’s cyst (p694). Non-pitting oedema is oedema you cannot indent: see p35. Nine questions to ask 1 Is itb oth legs? 2 Is she pregnant? 3 Is she mobile? 4 Any trauma? 5 Any pitting (p35)? 6 Past diseases/on drugs? 7 Any pain? 8 Any skin changes? 9 Any oedema elsewhere? Tests Look for proteinuria (+hypoalbuminaemia ≈nephrotic syndrome). CCF? Treatment of leg oedema Treat the cause. Diuretics for all is not an answer. Elevat- ing legs for dependent oedema (ankles higher than hips—do not just use footstools); raise the foot of the bed. Graduated support stockings may help (CI: ischaemia). Travel and DVT Long-distance travel appears to be a risk factor for the development of venous thromboembolism (VTE). Data suggests this is not confi ned to air travel, increases with the duration of travel, and results in clinical thrombosis more often in travel- lers with pre-existing risk factors. Dehydration, immobilization, decreased oxygen tension, and prolonged sitting have all been suggested as contributory factors. The risk of developing a DVT from a long-distance fl ight has been estimated at 1 in 10 000 to 1 in 40 000 for the general population. • The incidence of DVT in high-risk groups has been shown to be 4–6% for fl ights >10h. Travellers with ≥1 risk factor should consider compression stockings. For high-risk individuals consider a single dose of prophylactic LMWH for fl ights >6h. • There is risk of PE associated with long-distance air travel. • Compression stockings may  risk of DVT. • There is no evidence to support the use of prophylactic aspirin. • Risk reduction measures: leg exercises, increased water intake, and refraining from alcohol or caff eine during the journey. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 557799 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 580 Specifi c post-operative complications Laparotomy Wound may break down from a few days to a few weeks post-op (incidence ≈ 3.5%). Particular risk in the elderly, malnourished (eg cancer, IBD), if infection, uraemia, or haematoma is present, or in repeat laparotomies. Warning sign is a pink serous discharge. Always assume the defect involves the whole of the wound. Wound dehiscence may lead to a ‘burst abdomen’ with eviscera tion of bowel (mortality 15–30%). If you are on the
