Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Always assume the defect involves the whole of the wound. Wound dehiscence may lead to a ‘burst abdomen’ with eviscera tion of bowel (mortality 15–30%). If you are on the ward when this happens, call your senior, put the viscera back into the abdomen, place a sterile dressing over the wound, and give IV antibiotics (eg piperacillin/tazobactam; see local guidelines). Allay anxiety, give parenteral pain control, set up an IVI, and return patient to theatre. Incisional hernia is a common late problem (20%), repairable by mesh insertion (if necessary). Biliary surgery Early: Iatrogenic bile duct injury, cholangitis, bile leakage, bleeding into the biliary tree (haemobilia—may lead to melaena or haematemesis); pancreatitis. Retained stones may be removed by ERCP (p742); if this is not available a ‘T-tube’ left in the bile duct at the time of closure allows free drainage to the exterior; unrelieved distal obstruction of the bile duct may result in fi stula formation and chronic leakage of bile. If jaundiced, maintain a good urine output, monitor coagulation, and consider antibiotics. Late: Bile duct stricture; post-cholecystectomy syndrome (symptoms aris- ing from alterations in bile fl ow due to loss of the reservoir function of the gallbladder). Thyroid surgery Early: Recurrent (± superior) laryngeal nerve palsy (hoarseness) can occur permanently in 0 . 5% and transiently in 1 . 5%—warn the patient that their voice will be different for a few days post-op because of intubation and local oedema (NB: pre-operative fi breoptic laryngoscopy should be performed to exclude pre-exist- ing vocal cord dysfunction); thyroid storm (symptoms of severe hypert hyroidism—see p834); tracheal obstruction due to haematoma in the wound: relieve by immedi- ate removal of stitches or clips using the cutter/remover that should remain at the beside; may require urgent surgery; hypoparathyroidism (p222); check plasma Ca2+ daily; transient drops in serum concentration are common, permanent in 2 . 5%. Late: Hypothyroidism; recurrent hyperthyroidism. Mastectomy Arm lymphoedema in up to 20% of those undergoing axillary node sampling or dissection. The risk of lymphoedema increases with the level of axillary dissection: risk is lower with level 1 dissection (remains inferior to pec. minor) com- pared to level 3 dissection (goes superior to pec. minor, rarely done); skin necrosis. Arterial surgery Bleeding; thrombosis; embolism; graft infection; MI; AV fi stula formation. Complications of aortic surgery: Gut ischaemia; renal failure; respira- tory distress; trauma to ureters or anterior spinal artery (leading to paraplegia);
