Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


thrombosis; embolism; graft infection; MI; AV fi stula formation. Complications of aortic surgery: Gut ischaemia; renal failure; respira- tory distress; trauma to ureters or anterior spinal artery (leading to paraplegia); ischaemic events from distal emboli from dislodged thrombus; aorto-enteric fi stula. Colonic surgery Early: Sepsis;ileus;fi stulae;anastomotic leak (11% for radical rectal surgery); haemorrhage; trauma to ureters or spleen. Late: Adhesional obstruction (BOX). Small bowel surgery Short gut syndrome (best defi ned functionally, as ma- labsorption due to insuffi cient residual small bowel; adults with 150cm at risk). Diarrhoea and malabsorption (particularly of fats) lead to a number of metabolic abnormalities including defi ciency in vitamins A, D, E, K, and B12, hyper oxaluria (causing renal stones), and bile salt depletion (causing gallstones). The management of short bowel syndrome is complex, aiming to correct metabolic abnormalities, optimize residual bowel function, and support nutrition (using parenteral route if necessary). Tracheostomy Mediastinitis; surgical emphysema. Later: stenosis. Splenectomy (p373.) Acute gastric dilatation (a serious consequence of not using a NGT, or to check that the one in place is working); thrombocytosis; sepsis. Lifetime sepsis risk is partly preventable with pre-op vaccines—ie Haemophilus type B, meningococcal, and pneumococcal(p407 & p167)and prophylactic penicillin. Genitourinary surgery Septicaemia (from instrumentation in the presence of in- fected urine)—consider a stat dose of gentamicin; urinoma—rupture of a ureter or renal pelvis leading to a mass of extravasated urine. Gastrectomy See p622. Prostatectomy p642. Haemorrhoidectomy p632. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 558800 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS Adhesions—legacy of the laparotomy, bane of the surgeon 581 When re-operating on the abdomen, the struggle against adhesions tests the farthest and darkest boundaries of patience of the abdominal surgeon and the assistant. The skill and persistence required to gently and atraumatically tease apart these fi brous bands that restrict access and vision makes any progression, no matter how slight, cause for subdued celebration. Perseverance is the name of this game. Surgical division of adhesions is known as adhesiolysis. Any surgical procedure that breaches the abdominal or pelvic cavities can predispose to the formation of adhesions, which are found in up to 90% of those with previous abdominal surgery; this is why we do not rush to operate on small bowel obstruction: the op- eration predisposes to yet more adhesions. Handling of the serosal surface of the bowel causes infl ammation, which over weeks to years can lead to the formation of fi brous bands that tether the bowel to
