Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Handling of the serosal surface of the bowel causes infl ammation, which over weeks to years can lead to the formation of fi brous bands that tether the bowel to itself or adjacent structures—though adhesions can also form secondary to infection, radiation injury, and infl ammatory processes such as Crohn’s disease. Their main sequelae are intestinal obstruction (the cause in ~60% of cases—see p610) and chronic abdominal or pelvic pain. Stud- ies have shown that adhesiolysis may help relieve chronic pain, though for a small proportion of patients the pain never improves or even worsens after directed intervention. As far as prevention is concerned, the best approach is to avoid operating; lapa- roscopy compared with laparotomy reduces the rate of local adhesions. Insertion of synthetic fi lms (eg hyaluronic acid/carboxymethyl membrane) to prevent adhe- sions to the anterior abdominal wall reduces incidence, extent, and severity of adhesions, but not incidence of obstruction or operative re-intervention. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 558811 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 582 Stoma care A stoma (Greek=mouth) is an artifi cial union between a conduit and the outside world—eg a colostomy, in which faeces are made to pass through an opening in the abdominal wall when a loop of colon is brought out onto the skin. NB: a stoma can also be made between two internal conduits (eg a choledochojejunostomy). Colostomies (Usually left illiac fossa and fl ush with the skin—fi g 13.8.) May be tem- porary or permanent. Are they suitable for a laparoscopic operation? • Loop colostomy: A loop of colon is exteriorized and partially divided, forming two stomas that are joined together (the proximal end passes stool, the distal end passes mucus, see fi g 13.6). A rod under the loop prevents retraction and may be removed after 7d. A loop colostomy is often temporary and performed to protect a distal anastomosis, eg after anterior resection. • End colostomy: The bowel is divided and the proximal end brought out as a stoma; the distal end may be: 1 resected, eg abdominoperineal (AP) resection (inspect the perineum for absent anus when examining a stoma) 2 closed and left in the abdo- men (Hartmann’s procedure) 3 exteriorized, forming a ‘mucous fi stula’. • Paul–Mikulicz colostomy: A double-barrelled colostomy in which the colon is di- vided completely (eg to excise a section of bowel). Each end is exteriorized as two separate stomas. Output: Colostomies ideally pass 1–2 formed motions/day into an
