Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


the colon is di- vided completely (eg to excise a section of bowel). Each end is exteriorized as two separate stomas. Output: Colostomies ideally pass 1–2 formed motions/day into an adherent plastic pouch. Some may be managed with irrigation, thus avoiding a pouch. Incidence: 21 000 stomas/yr in UK (>50% are permanent). Most manage their stomas well. The cost for appliances is ~£1500/yr. If there is a skin reaction to the adhesive or pouch, a change of device may be all that is needed. Contact the stoma nurse. Ileostomies (Usually right illiac fossa.) Protrude from the skin and emit frequent fl uid motions which contain active enzymes (so the skin needs protecting—see fi g 13.7). Loop ileostomies can be formed to defunction the colon as a temporary meas- ure eg during control of diffi cult perianal Crohn’s disease. End ileostomy follows total or subtotal c olectomy, eg for UC; subsequent formation of ileal pouch-anal anasto- mosis (pouch of ileum is joined to the upper anal canal) can allow for stoma reversal. Alternative (non-stoma forming) surgery Low/ultralow anterior resection: All or part of the rectum is excised and the proximal colon anastomosed to the top of the anal canal (the lower the level of anastomosis, the higher the risk of complication). Transanal endoscopic microsurgery: Allows excision of small tumours within the rectum with preservation of sphincter function. Urostomies are fashioned after total cystectomy, bringing urine from the ureters to the abdominal wall via an ileal conduit that is usually incontinent. Formation of a catheterizable valvular mechanism may retain continence. Advances in urological surgery have seen an increase in continence-saving procedures such as orthotopic neobladder reconstruction, with good long-term continence rates. When choosing a stoma site, avoid: • Bony prominences (eg anterior superior iliac spine, costal margins). • The umbilicus. • Old wounds/scars—there may be adhesions beneath. • Skin folds and creases. • The waistline. • The site should be assessed pre-operatively by the stoma nurse, with the patient both lying and standing. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 558822 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS Complications of stomas 583 Liaise early with the stoma nurse, starting pre-operatively. Early: • Haemorrhage at stoma site. • Stoma ischaemia—colour progresses from dusky grey to black. • High output (can lead to K+)—consider loperamide ± codeine to thicken output. • Obstruction secondary to adhesions (see p581). • Stoma retraction. Delayed: • Obstruction (failure at operation to close lateral space around stoma). • Dermatitis
