Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


loperamide ± codeine to thicken output. • Obstruction secondary to adhesions (see p581). • Stoma retraction. Delayed: • Obstruction (failure at operation to close lateral space around stoma). • Dermatitis around stoma site (worse with ileostomy). • Stoma prolapse. • Stomal intussusception. • Stenosis. • Parastomal hernia (risk increases with time). NB: prophylactic mesh insertion at the time of stoma formation reduces this risk. • Fistulae. • Psychological problems. Psychological aspects of stoma care The physical and psychological aspects of stoma care must not be undervalued. Be alert to any vicious cycle in which a skin reaction leads to leakage and precipitates a fear of going out, or a fear of eating. This in turn may lead to poor nutrition and further skin reactions, resulting in further leakage and depression. These cycles can be circumvented by the stoma nurse, who is the expert in fi tting secure, odourless devices and providing patients with a wealth of physical and psycho- logical support, both pre and post operative (explaining what is going to happen, what the stoma will be like, and troubleshooting post-op problems). Early refer- ral prevents problems. Without input from the stoma nurse, a patient may reject their colostomy, never attend to it, and develop deep-seated psychological and psychiatric problems. Fig 13.7 An ileostomy sits proud, has promi- nent mucosal folds, and is often right-sided. Fig 13.6 A loop colostomy with double-barrelled stoma and supporting ostomy rod. Fig 13.8 A colostomy sits fl ush with the skin and is typically sited in the left iliac fossa. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 558833 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 584 Nutritional support in hospital Over 25% of hospital inpatients may be malnourished. Hospitals can become so focused on curing disease that they ignore the foundations of good health—mal- nourished patients recover more slowly and experience more complications. See table 13.6. Why are so many hospital patients malnourished? 1 Increased nutritional requirements (eg sepsis, burns, surgery). 2 Increased nutritional losses (eg malabsorption, output from stoma). 3 Decreased intake (eg dysphagia, nausea, sedation, coma). 4 Eff ect of treatment (eg nausea, diarrhoea). 5 Enforced starvation (eg prolonged periods nil by mouth). 6 Missing meals (eg due to investigations—minimize meal time disruption). 7 Diffi culty with feeding(eg lost dentures;no one available to assist). 8 Unappetizing food. Identifying at-risk patients Assess nutrition state (using eg Malnutrition Univer- sal Screening Tool3) and weight on admission; reassess weekly thereafter. Involve dieticians early in those
