Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


gut wall, which can lead to multiple organ dysfunction and perpetuation of a sys- temic infl ammatory response—even when the gut is not the primary source of pathology. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 558866 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS Refeeding syndrome 587 This is a life-threatening metabolic complication of refeeding via any route after a prolonged period of starvation. At-risk patients include those initiating artifi cial feeding (enteral or parenteral) after prolonged starvation, or with malignancy, anorexia nervosa, or alcoholism. As the body turns to fat and protein metabolism in the starved state, there is a drop in the level of circulating insulin (because of the paucity of dietary carbohydrates). The catabolic state also depletes intracellular stores of phosphate, although serum levels may remain normal (0.85–1.45mmol/L). When refeeding begins, the level of insulin rises in response to the carbohydrate load, and one of the consequences is to increase cellular uptake of phosphate. A hypophosphataemic state (<0.50mmol/L) normally develops within 4d and is mostly responsible for the features of ‘refeeding syndrome’, which include: rhab- domyolysis; red and white cell dysfunction; respiratory insuffi ciency; arrhythmias; cardiogenic shock; seizures; sudden death. Prevention Give high-dose Pabrinex ® during re-feeding window. Identify at-risk patients, assess and monitor closely during refeeding (glucose, lipids, sodium, po- tassium, phosphate, calcium, magnesium, and zinc). Close involvement of a nutri- tionist is required. Treatment is of the complicating features and includes parenteral phosphate ad- ministration (eg 18mmol/d) in addition to oral supplementation. The venous system at the thoracic outlet When trying to judge the position of a central venous line tip on CXR (see fi g 13.10) it helps to know the anatomical landmarks of the venous system (fi g 13.9). The subclavian veins join the inter- nal jugular veins behind the sternoclav- icular joints to form the brachiocephalic veins. These come together behind the right 1st sternocostal joint to form the superior vena cava (SVC), which runs from this point to the right 3rd sterno- costal joint. The right atrium starts here. Fig 13.9 Neck veins. Fig 13.10 Right arm PICC (peripherally inserted cen- tral catheter) still with a wire in the lumen. This is a radiograph at the time of insertion to determine if placement is correct. The tip lies in the SVC—ie good positioning for TPN or long-term antibiotic therapy. The tip of a Hickman line, for cytotoxic administra- tion, is better in the right atrium, to avoid possible irritation of the SVC
