Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


positioning for TPN or long-term antibiotic therapy. The tip of a Hickman line, for cytotoxic administra- tion, is better in the right atrium, to avoid possible irritation of the SVC and consequent thrombosis or stenosis. NB: this image was acquired in the angiog- raphy room, where radio-opaque material appears black (it is easier to see contrast media against a white background). A similar eff ect may be achieved by digitally inverting a standard X-ray. Image courtesy of Prof. Peter Scally. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 558877 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 588 Diabetic patients undergoing surgery Over 10% of surgical patients will have diabetes. This group face a greater risk of post- operative infection and cardiac complications. Tight glycaemic control is therefore essential and improves outcome. Aim to achieve an HbA1C of <69mmol/mol prior to elective surgery. Patients are often well informed about their diabetes—involve them fully in managing their diabetic care. Check your hospital’s policy for managing dia- betic patients who will be NBM before surgery. A general guide follows. Insulin-treated diabetes mellitus • Try to place the patient fi rst on the list in order to minimize the fasting period. • Give all usual insulin the night before surgery. • Long-acting (basal) insulin is usually continued at normal times (eg glargine; de- temir), even when patients are on a variable rate intravenous insulin infusion (VRIII)— previously known as a ‘sliding scale’ (see BOX). • If on AM list, ensure no subcutaneous rapid-acting (bolus) or mixed insulin is given on the morning of surgery. If PM list, give the normal morning bolus insulin, or half the mixed insulin dose. • If eating and drinking post-operatively, resume the usual insulin with evening meal. If AM list (or early PM) and eating a late lunch, give half the morning insulin dose with this meal. If not eating until evening, a VRIII may be needed if the capillary glucose readings are high. • Omit all rapid-acting and mixed insulin while the patient is on a VRIII. • It not eating or drinking post-op, start a VRIII 2 hrs prior to surgery. Aim for serum glucose levels of 6–10mmol/L and check fi nger-prick glucose every 2 hrs. When ready to eat, give normal dose of rapid acting or mixed insulin with the 1st meal and stop the VRIII 30–60min later. • IV fl uid is required while the patient is on a VRIII: see BOX. • A glucose–potassium–insulin (GKI)
