Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


insulin with the 1st meal and stop the VRIII 30–60min later. • IV fl uid is required while the patient is on a VRIII: see BOX. • A glucose–potassium–insulin (GKI) infusion can be used as an alternative to a VRIII, although it is no longer used as standard in the UK. Tablet-treated diabetes mellitus • If diabetes is poorly controlled (eg fasting glucose >10mmol/L), treat as for patients on insulin (see earlier in topic). • Give usual medications the night before surgery, except long-acting sulfonylureas (eg glibenclamide) which can cause prolonged hypoglycaemia when fasting and may need to be substituted 2–3 days pre-operatively. Discuss with the diabetes team. • If eating and drinking post-operatively: on AM list, omit morning medication and take any missed drugs with lunch, after surgery. If PM list, take normal medications with breakfast, omit midday doses, and take any missed drugs with a late lunch. The dose of these may need reducing, depending on dietary intake. • If not eating or drinking post-op, start a VRIII 2 hours prior to surgery. Once eating and drinking, oral hypoglycaemics can be restarted. • Some patients may need a phase of subcutaneous insulin following major sur- gery—refer to the diabetes team if serum glucose levels are persistently raised. • Metformin and iodine IV contrast: Metformin can be continued after IV contrast in patients with normal serum creatinine and/or eGFR >60mL/min. To minimize the risk of nephrotoxicity, if serum creatinine is raised or eGFR <60mL/min, stop met- formin for 48h after contrast and check renal function has returned to baseline before restarting. Diet-controlled diabetes There are usually no problems; patients should be treated as if not diabetic (and do not need to be fi rst on the list). Check capillary blood glucose peri-operatively. Avoid 5% glucose IVI as this increases blood glucose levels. Peri-operative morbidity and mortality Diabetes mellitus is classed as an inter- mediate risk factor for increased peri-operative cardiovascular risk by the American Heart Association, so screen for the presence of asymptomatic cardiac and renal disease (p567) and be aware of possible ‘silent’ myocardial ischaemia. Long-term post-op survival has been found to be poorer for patients with diabetes; however, peri-operative cardiovascular morbidity and mortality were only increased in the presence of congestive heart failure and haemodialysis—ie not diabetes alone. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 558888 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS How to write up a variable rate intravenous insulin infusion (VRIII) 589 Variable rate
