Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


give antibiotics. Antibiotic prophylaxis for ERCP not recommended unless biliary decompression fails, or there is a history of biliary disorders; liver transplantation; presence of a pancreatic pseudocyst; or neu- tropenia, in which case give oral ciprofl oxacin or IV gentamicin (check local policy). Renal failure Risk post-op due to intestinal absorption of endotoxin (normally lim- ited by the detergent eff ect of bile). This causes renal vasoconstriction and acute tubular necrosis (see p298). The use of lactulose or bile salts pre-op may help. Ensure adequate IV fl uids pre- and post-operatively to maintain good urine output. Monitor urine output every 2h. Consider central line, inotropes, and furosemide if output poor despite adequate hydration. Measure and correct U&E daily. Surgery in those on anticoagulants Inform the surgeon and anaesthetist. Risks and benefi ts must be individualized. Warfarin Minor surgery can be undertaken without stopping (if INR <3.5 it may be safe to proceed). In major surgery, stop for 3–5d pre-op. Vitamin K ± FFP or Beriplex® may be needed for emergency reversal of INR. One elective option is conversion to heparin (stop 6h prior to surgery, and monitor APTT perioperatively). When re-war- farinizing, give LMWH until INR is therapeutic, as warfarin is initially prothrombotic. DOACS Decision to stop will be based upon the patient’s risk of having a thromboem- bolic event and bleeding risk associated with the procedure.4 Where procedure has no clinically important bleeding risk it can be performed just before the next DOAC dose/18–24h after last dose and dosing restarted 6h post-op. Low bleeding risk pro- cedure, omit DOAC 24h pre-op. High bleeding risk procedure,omit DOAC 48h pre-op. If renal function impaired, may require longer periods of omission pre-op. Antiplatelets Decision to stop is complex and best discussed with the treating team (eg cardiologist or neurologist). Premature discontinuation of clopidogrel in patients with drug-eluting stents can lead to stent thrombosis. The bleeding eff ects of aspirin are reversed 5d after stopping—check local policy to see if cessation required. Surgery in those on steroids Patients on steroids may not be able to mount an appropriate adrenal response to meet the stress of surgery due to suppression of the hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal (HPA) axis. Extra corticosteroid cover may be required, depending on the type of sur- gery. Consider cover for any patient taking >5mg/d of prednisolone (or equivalent) for more than 2 weeks or any patient who has had their long-term steroid reduced
