Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


and taught. Day-case surgery Advances in surgical techniques as well as perioperative care mean better results for the patient (shorter waiting lists, fewer infections, fewer days off work, and patient satisfaction). Many operations can now be performed as day cases. Theoretically any procedure is suitable, provided the time under general anaesthetic does not exceed ~1h. The use of regional anaesthesia helps to avoid the SE of nausea and disorientation that may accompany a general anaesthetic, thus facilitating discharge. Bear in mind that the following groups of patients may not be suitable for day-case surgery: •Severe dementia. •Severe learning diffi culties. •Living alone (and no helpers). •Children if supervision diffi cult—changes in expectation, delays, and pain relief can be problematic. •BMI >32 (p244). •ASA category ≥ III (p567) thus potentially unstable comorbidities—discuss with the anaesthetist. •Infection at the site of the operation. Exposing patients to our learning curves? The jury is still out… All surgeons get better over time (for a while), as they perform new techniques with increasing ease and confi dence. When Wertheim did his fi rst hysterectomies, his fi rst dozen patients died—but then one survived. He assumed it was a good operation, and pressed ahead. He was a brave man, and thousands of women owe their lives to him. But had he tried to do this today, he would have been stopped. The UK’s General Medical Council (GMC) and other august bodies tell us that we must protect the public by reporting doctors whose patients have low survival rates. The reason for this is partly ethical, and partly to preserve self-regulation. We have the toughest codes of practice and disciplinary procedures of any group of workers. It is assumed that doctors are loyal to each other out of self-interest, and that this loyalty is bad. This has never been tested formally, and is not evi- dence-based. We can imagine two clinical worlds: one of constant ‘reportings’ and recriminatory audits, and another of trust and team-work. Both are imperfect, but we should not assume that the fi rst world would be better for our patients. When patients are sick with fear, they do not, perhaps, want to know every- thing. We may tell to protect ourselves. We may not tell to protect ourselves. Perhaps what we should do is, in our hearts, appeal to those 12 dead women-of- Wertheim—a jury as infallible as sacrifi cial—and try to hear
