Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


not tell to protect ourselves. Perhaps what we should do is, in our hearts, appeal to those 12 dead women-of- Wertheim—a jury as infallible as sacrifi cial—and try to hear their reply. And to those who complain that in doing so we are playing God, it is possible to reply with some humility that, whatever it is, it does not seem like play. ‘It is amazing what little harm doctors do when one considers all the opportuni- ties they have.’ M. Twain. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 559922 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 593 __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 559933 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 594 Lumps Examine the regional lymph nodes as well as the lump. If the lump is a node, examine its area of drainage. Always examine the circulation and nerve supply distal to any lump. History How long has it been there? Does it hurt? Any other symptoms, eg itch? Any other lumps? Is it getting bigger? Ever been abroad? Otherwise well? Physical exam Remember the 6 S’s: site, size, shape, smoothness (consistency), sur- face (contour/edge/colour), and surroundings. Other questions: Does it transilluminate (see next paragraph)? Is it fi xed/tethered to skin or underlying structures (see BOX)? Is it fl uctuant/compressible? Temperature? Tender? Pulsatile (US duplex may help)? Transilluminable lumps After eliminating as much external light as possible, place a bright, thin ‘pen’ torch on the lump, from behind (or at least to the side), so the light is shining through the lump towards your eye. If the lump glows red it is said to transilluminate—a fl uid-fi lled lump such as a hydrocele is a good example. Lipomas These benign fatty lumps, occurring wherever fat can expand (ie not scalp or palms), have smooth, imprecise margins, a hint of fl uctuance, and are not fi xed to skin or deeper structures. Symptoms are only caused via pressure. Malignant change very rare (suspect if rapid growth/hardening/vascularization). Multiple scat- tered lipomas, which may be painful,occur in Dercum’s disease,typically in post- menopausal women. Sebaceous cysts Refer to either epidermal (fi g 13.11) or pilar cysts (they are not of sebaceous origin and contain keratin, not sebum). They appear as fi rm, round, mobile subcutaneous nodules of varying size. Look for the characteristic central punctum. Infection is quite common, and foul pus exits through the punctum. They are com- mon on the scalp, face, neck, and trunk. Treatment: Excision of cyst and contents. Lymph nodes Causes of enlargement: Infection: Glandular fever;
