Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


pus exits through the punctum. They are com- mon on the scalp, face, neck, and trunk. Treatment: Excision of cyst and contents. Lymph nodes Causes of enlargement: Infection: Glandular fever; brucellosis; TB; HIV; toxoplasmosis; actinomycosis; syphilis. Infi ltration: Malignancy (carcinoma, lymphoma); sarcoidosis. Cutaneous abscesses Staphylococci are the most common organisms. Haemolytic streptococci only common in hand infections. Proteus is a common cause of non- staphylococcal axillary abscesses. Below the waist, faecal organisms are common (aerobes and anaerobes). Treatment: Incise and drain. Boils (furuncles) are ab- scesses involving a hair follicle and associated glands. A carbuncle is an area of subcutaneous necrosis which discharges itself on to the surface through multiple si- nuses. Think of hidradenitis suppurativa if recurrent inguinal or axillary abscesses. Rheumatoid nodules (fi g 13.12) Collagenous granulomas which appear in established rheumatoid arthritis on the extensor aspects of joints—especially the elbows (fi g 13.12). Ganglia Degenerative cysts from an adjacent joint or synovial sheath commonly seen on the dorsum of the wrist or hand and dorsum of the foot. May transilluminate. 50% disappear spontaneously. Aspiration may be eff ective, especially when com- bined with instillation of steroid and hyaluronidase. For the rest, treatment of choice is excision rather than the traditional blow from your bible (the Oxford Textbook of Surgery)! See fi g 13.13. Fibromas These may occur anywhere in the body, but most commonly under the skin. These whitish, benign tumours contain collagen, fi broblasts, and fi brocytes. Dermoid cysts Contain dermal structures and are found at the junction of embry- onic cutaneous boundaries, eg in the midline or lateral to the eye. See fi g 13.14. Malignant tumours of connective tissue Fibrosarcomas, lipos arcomas, leiomyo- sarcomas (smooth muscle), and rhabdomyosarcomas (striated muscle). These are staged using modifi ed TNM system including tumour grade. Needle-core (Trucut®) biopsies of large tumours precede excision. Any lesion suspected of being a sarcoma should not be simply enucleated. Refer to a specialist. Neurofi bromas See p514. Keloids Caused by irregular hypertrophy of vascularized collagen forming raised edges at sites of previous scars that extend outside the scar (fi g 13.15). Common in dark skin. Treatment can be diffi cult. Intralesional steroid injections are a mainstay. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 559944 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS In or under the skin? 595 Intradermal Subcutaneous • Sebaceous cyst • Lipoma • Abscess • Ganglion • Dermoid cyst • Neuroma • Granuloma. • Lymph node. If a lump is
