Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


self-limiting lymphadenopathy is likely. If >20yrs, exclude malignant lymphadenopathy (eg fi rm and non-tender). Is TB likely? •If it is not a node, think of submandibular salivary stone, sialadenitis, or tumour (see BOX for Salivary gland pathology). Anterior triangle (Between midline, anterior border of sternocleidomastoid, and the line between the two angles of the mandible.) •Branchial cysts emerge under the anterior border of sternocleidomastoid where the upper third meets the mid- dle third (age <20yrs). Due to non-disappearance of the cervical sinus (where 2nd branchial arch grows down over 3rd and 4th). Lined by squamous epithelium, their fl uid contains cholesterol crystals. Treat by excision. There may be communication with the pharynx in the form of a fi stula. •If lump in the supero-posterior area of the anterior triangle, is it a parotid tumour (more likely if >40yrs)? •Laryngoceles are an uncommon cause of anterior triangle lumps. They are painless and may be made worse by blowing. These cysts are classifi ed as external, internal, or mixed, and may be associated with laryngeal cancer. If pulsatile may be: •Carotid artery aneurysm, •Tortuous carotid artery, or •Carotid body tumours (chemodectoma). These are very rare, move from side to side but not up and down, and splay out the carotid bifurcation. They are usually fi rm and occasionally soft and pulsatile. They do not usually cause bruits. They may be bilateral, familial, and malignant (5%). Suspect in any mass just anterior to the upper third of sternomastoid. Diagnose by duplex USS (splaying at the carotid bifurcation) or digital computer angiography. : Extirpation by vascular surgeon. Posterior triangle (Behind sternocleidomastoid, in front of trapezius, above clavi- cle.) •Cervical ribs may intrude into this area. These are enlarged costal elements from C7 vertebra. The majority are asymptomatic but can cause Raynaud’s syndrome by compressing subclavian artery and neurological symptoms (eg wasting of 1st dor- sal interosseous) from pressure on lower trunk of the brachial plexus. •Pharyngeal pouches can protrude into the posterior triangle on swallowing (usually left-sided). •Cystic hygromas (usually infants) arise from jugular lymph sac. These macrocystic lymphatic malformations transilluminate brightly. Treat by surgery or hypertonic sa- line sclerosant injection. Recurrence can be troublesome. •Pancoast’s tumour (see p708). •Subclavian artery aneurysm will be pulsatile. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 559988 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS External carotid Parotid gland 599 artery Parotid nodes Sternomastoid Mylohyoid Hypoglossal nerve Tonsillar node Submandibular nodes Occipital nodes Scalenus medius Ant. and Post. digastric
