Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


lungs). Well-diff erentiated. : total thyroidectomy + T4 suppression + radioiodine ablation. 3 Medullary: (5%.) Sporadic (80%) or part of MEN syndrome (p223). May produce calcitonin which can be used as a tumour marker. They do not concentrate iodine. Perform a phaeochromocytoma screen pre-op. : thyroidectomy + node clear- ance. External beam radiot herapy may prevent regional recurrence. 4 Lymphoma: (5%.) :≈3:1. May present with stridor or dysphagia. Do full stag- ing pre-treatment (chemoradiotherapy). Assess histology for mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) origin (associated with a good prognosis). 5 Anaplastic: Rare. :≈3:1. Elderly, poor response to any treatment. In the absence of unresectable disease, excision + radiotherapy may be tried. Thyroid surgery Plays a signifi cant role in the management of thyroid disease. Operations include partial lobectomy or lobectomy (for isolated nodules); and thy- roidectomy (for cancers, MNG, or Graves’). Indications: Pressure symptoms, relapse hyperthyroidism after >1 failed course of drug treatment, carcinoma, cosmetic reasons, symptomatic patients planning pregnancy. Pre-operative management: Render euthyroid pre-op with antithyroid drugs (eg carbimazole up to 20mg/12h PO or p ropylthiouracil 200mg/12h PO but stop 10d prior to surgery as these increase vas- cularity). Propranolol up to 80mg/8h PO can be used to control tachycardia or tremor associated with hyperthyroidism (continue for 5d post-op). Check vocal cords by in- direct laryngoscopy pre- and post-op (risk of recurrent laryngeal nerve injury). Check serum Ca2+ (and PTH if abnormal). Complications: see p580. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 660000 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 601 Fig 13.21 The anatomy of the region of the thyroid gland. The important structures that must be considered when operating on the thyroid gland include: • Recurrent laryngeal nerve • Superior laryngeal nerve • Parathyroid glands • Trachea • Common carotid artery • Internal jugular vein (not depicted—see fi g 13.23). Fig 13.22 Radionuclide study of the thyroid Fig 13.23 Transverse ultrasound of the left lobe showing changes consistent with Graves’ dis- of the thyroid showing a small low-refl ectivity ease (see also hot and cold nodules (p216) and cyst within higher-refl ectivity thyroid tissue. nuclear medicine, p738). There is increased up- Note the proximity to the gland of the common take of the radionuclide trace diff usely through- carotid artery and internal jugular vein (the lat- out both lobes of the gland. ter compressed slightly by pressure from the Image courtesy of Norwich Radiology Department. probe), both seen beneath the body of sterno- cleidomastoid muscle. Image courtesy of Norwich
