Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


and reassure and reassure Reassurance can be more emphatic if there is no family Bloody fl uid history and biopsy shows a non-proliferative lesion. cytology Fig 13.24 Triple assessment and investigation of a breast lump. * US is more accurate at detecting invasive breast cancer, though mammography remains most accurate at detecting ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS). MRI is used in the assessment of multif ocal/bilateral disease and patients with cosmetic implants who are identifi ed as high risk. Sentinel node biopsy Decreases needless axillary clearances in lymph node Ωve patients. • Patent blue dye and/or radiocolloid injected into periareolar area or tumour. • A gamma probe/visual inspection is used to identify the sentinel node. • The sentinel node is biopsied and sent for histology ± immunohisto chemistry; further clearance only if sentinel node +ve. Sentinel node identifi ed in 90%. False Ωve rates <5% for experienced surgeons. Prognostic factors in breast cancer Tumour size, grade, lymph node status, ER/PR status, presence of vascular invasion all help assess prognosis. Nottingham Prognostic Index (NPI) is widely used to predict survival and risk of relapse, and to help select appropriate adjuvant sys- temic therapy. NPI = 0.2 ≈ tumour size (cm) + histological grade + nodal status6 If treated with surgery alone, 10yr survival rates are: NPI <2.4: 95%; NPI 2.4–3.4: 85%; NPI 3.4–4.4: 70%; NPI 4.4–5.4: 50%; NPI >5.4: 20%. Benign breast disease Fibroadenoma: Usually presents <30yrs but can occur up to menopause. Benign overgrowth of collagenous mesenchyme of one breast lobule. Firm, smooth, mobile lump, the ‘breast mouse’. Painless. May be multiple. ⅓ regress, ⅓ stay the same, ⅓ get bigger. : observation and reassurance, but if in doubt refer for USS (usually conclusive) ± FNA. Surgical excision if large. Breast cysts: Common >35yrs, esp. perimenopausal. Benign, fl uid-fi lled rounded lump. Not fi xed to surrounding tissue. Occasionally painful. : diagnosis confi rmed on aspiration (perform only if trained). Infective mastitis/breast abscesses: Infection of mammary duct often associat- ed with lactation (usually Staph. aureus). Abscess presents as painful, hot swelling of breast segment. : antibiotics. Open incision or percutaneous drainage if abscess. Duct ectasia: Typically around menopause. Ducts become blocked and secre- tions stagnate. Present with nipple discharge (green/brown/bloody) ± nipple re- traction ± lump. Refer for confi rmation of diagnosis. Usually no  needed. Advise to stop smoking. Fat necrosis: Fibrosis and calcifi cation after injury to breast
