Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


± nipple re- traction ± lump. Refer for confi rmation of diagnosis. Usually no  needed. Advise to stop smoking. Fat necrosis: Fibrosis and calcifi cation after injury to breast tissue. Scarring re- sults in a fi rm lump. Refer for triple assessment. No  once diagnosis confi rmed. 6 Nodal status is scored 1–3: 1 = node –ve; 2 = 1–3 nodes +ve; 3 = >3 nodes +ve for breast cancer. Histological grade is also scored 1–3. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 660033 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 604 Abdominal masses As with any mass (see p594), determine size, site, shape, and surface. Find out if it is pulsatile and if it is mobile. Examine supraclavicular and inguinal nodes. Is the lump ballotable (like bobbing an apple up and down in water)? Right iliac fossa masses • Appendix mass/abscess • Intussusception • Transplanted kidney • Caecal carcinoma • TB mass • Kidney malformation • Crohn’s disease • Amoebic abscess • Tumour in an • Pelvic mass (see later in • Actinomycosis (p389) undescended testis. topic) Abdominal distension Flatus, fat, fl uid, faeces, or fetus (p57)? Fluid may be outside the gut (ascites) or sequestered in bowel (obstruction; ileus). To demonstrate ascites elicit signs of a fl uid thrill and/or shifting dullness (p61). Causes of ascites Ascites with portal hypertension • Malignancy • CCF; pericarditis • Cirrhosis • Portal nodes • Infections—esp. TB • Pancreatitis • Budd–Chiari syndrome (p696) • Albumin (eg nephrosis) • Myxoedema. • IVC or portal vein thrombosis. Tests: Aspirate ascitic fl uid (p764) for cytology, culture and albumin;7 US. Left upper quadrant mass Is it spleen, stomach, kidney, colon, pancreas, or a rare cause (eg neurofi broma)? Pancreatic cysts may be true (congenital; cystadenomas; retention cysts of chronic pancreatitis; cystic fi brosis) or pseudocysts (fl uid in lesser sac from acute pancreatitis). Splenomegaly Causes are often said to be infective, haematological, neoplastic, etc, but grouping by associated feature is more useful clinically: Splenomegaly with fever With lymphadenopathy With purpura • InfectionHS (malaria, SBE/IE, • Glandular feverHS • Septicaemia; typhus hepatitis,HS EBV,HS TB, CMV, HIV)• Leukaemias; lymphoma • DIC; amyloidHS • Sarcoid; malignancy.HS • Sjögren’s syndrome. • Meningococcaemia. With arthritis With ascites With a murmur • Sjögren’s syndrome • Carcinoma • SBE/IE • Rheumatoid arthritis; SLE • Portal hypertension.HS • Rheumatic fever • Infection, eg Lyme (p422) • Hypereosinophilia • Vasculitis/Behçet’s (p556). • AmyloidHS (p370). With anaemia With weight + CNS signs Massive
