Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Rheumatoid arthritis; SLE • Portal hypertension.HS • Rheumatic fever • Infection, eg Lyme (p422) • Hypereosinophilia • Vasculitis/Behçet’s (p556). • AmyloidHS (p370). With anaemia With weight + CNS signs Massive splenomegaly • Sickle-cell;HS thalassaemiaHS • Cancer; lymphoma • Malaria (hyper-reactivity • Leishmaniasis;HS leukaemiaHS • TB; arsenic poisoning after chronic exposure) • Pernicious anaemia (p334) • Paraproteinaemia.HS • Myelofi brosis; CMLHS • POEMS syn. (p220). • Gaucher’s syndromeHS • Leishmaniasis. HS =causes of hepatosplenomegaly. Smooth hepatomegaly Hepatitis, CCF, sarcoidosis, early alcoholic cirrhosis (a small liver is typical later); tricuspid incompetence ( pulsatile liver). Craggy hepatomegaly Secondaries or 1° hepatoma. (Nodular cirrhosis typically causes a small, shrunken liver, not an enlarged craggy one.) Pelvic masses Fibroids, fetus, bladder, ovarian cysts or malignancies. Is it truly pel- vic?—Yes, if by palpation you cannot get ‘below it’. Investigating lumps Check FBC (with fi lm); CRP; U&E; LFT; Ca2+; tumour markers only as appropriate. Imaging by CT or US (transvaginal approach may be useful); MRI also has a role, eg in assessment of liver masses (p286). Others: TB tests (p394). Biopsy to give a tissue diagnosis may be obtained using a fi ne needle guided by CT, US, or endoscopy. 7 Subtract fl uid albumin from serum albumin to obtain serum-ascites albumin gradient (SAAG). Gradient <11g/L suggests malignancy, infections, or pancreatitis. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 660044 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS The fi rst successful laparotomy... 605 In 1809, an American surgeon by the name of Ephraim McDowell performed an astonishing operation: the fi rst successful elective laparotomy for an abdominal tumour. It was an ovariotomy for an ovarian mass in a 44-year-old who, prior to physical examination by McDowell, was believed to be gravid. Not only was this feat performed in the age before anaesthesia and antisepsis, but it was also performed on a table in the front room of McDowell’s Kentucky home, at that time on the frontier of the West in the United States. His account of the opera- tion makes fascinating reading. While the strength of his diagnostic convictions combined with his speed and skill at operating is to be admired (the operation took 25 minutes), there is an even more laudable part played in this story. The patient, Mrs Jane Todd-Crawford, was fully willing to be involved with what can only be described as experimental surgery in the face of uncertainty. She defi ed pain simply by reciting psalms and hymns, and was back at
