Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


be involved with what can only be described as experimental surgery in the face of uncertainty. She defi ed pain simply by reciting psalms and hymns, and was back at home within 4 weeks with no complications, ultimately living another 33 years. We would be well served in remembering the exceptional commitment of Mrs Todd-Crawford. In the rush and hurry of our daily tasks perhaps it is all to easy to forget that the undertak- ing of surgery today may be no less fear-provoking for patients than it was 200 years ago. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 660055 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 606 The acute abdomen Someone who becomes acutely ill and in whom symptoms and signs are chiefl y related to the abdomen has an acute abdomen. Prompt laparotomy is sometimes essential: repeated examination is the key to making the decision. Clinical syndromes that usually require laparotomy 1 Rupture of an organ (Spleen, aorta, ectopic pregnancy.) Shock is a leading sign— see table 13.10 for assessment of blood loss. Abdominal swelling may be seen. Any history of trauma: blunt trauma  spleen; penetrating trauma  liver? Delayed rupture of the spleen may occur weeks after trauma. Peritonism may be mild. 2 Peritonitis (Perforation of peptic ulcer/duodenal ulcer, diverticulum, appendix, bowel, or gallbladder.) Signs: prostration, shock, lying still, +ve cough test (p62), tenderness (± rebound/percussion pain, p62), board-like abdominal rigidity, guard- ing, and no bowel sounds. Erect CXR may show gas under the diaphragm (fi g 13.26). NB: acute pancreatitis (p636) causes these signs, but does not require a laparotomy so don’t be caught out and always check serum amylase. Syndromes that may not require a laparotomy Local peritonitis:Eg diverticulitis,cholecystitis,salpingitis,and appendicitis(the lat- ter will need surgery). If abscess formation is suspected (swelling, swinging fever, and WCC) do US or CT. Drainage can be percutaneous (US or CT-guided), or by lapa- rotomy. Peritoneal infl ammation can cause localized ileus with a ‘sentinel loop’ of intraluminal gas visible on plain AXR (p729). Colic is a regularly waxing and waning pain, caused by muscular spasm in a hollow viscus, eg gut, ureter, salpinx, uterus, bile duct, or gallbladder (in the latter, pain is often dull and constant). Colic, unlike peritonitis, causes restlessness and the patient may well be pacing around when you go to review! Obstruction of the bowel See p610. Tests U&E; FBC; amylase; LFT; CRP; lactate (is there mesenteric ischaemia?); urinalysis. Urine and serum hCG is
