Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


the appendix is not always visualized. CT has high diagnostic accuracy and is useful if diagnosis is unclear: it reduces Ωve appendicectomy rate. Variations in the clinical picture • Infl ammation in a retrocecal/retroperitoneal appendix (2.5%) may cause fl ank or RUQ pain; its only sign may be tenderness on the right on PR. • The child with vague abdominal pain who will not eat their favourite food. • The shocked, confused octogenarian who is not in pain. • Appendicitis occurs in ~1/1000 pregnancies. Mortality is higher, especially from 20wks’ gestation. Perforation is more common, and increases fetal mortality. Pain is often less well localized (may be RUQ) and signs of peritonism less obvious. Hints • If a child is anxious, use their hand to press their tummy. • Check for recent viral illnesses and lymphadenopathy—mesenteric adenitis? • Don’t start palpating in the RIF (makes it diffi cult to elicit pain elsewhere). • Expect diagnosis to be wrong half the time. If diagnosis is uncertain, re-examine often. A normal appendix is removed in up to 20% of patients. Treatment Prompt appendicectomy (fi g 13.27). Antibiotics: piperacillin/tazobac- tam 4.5g/8h, 1 to 3 doses IV starting 1h pre-op, reduces wound infections. Give a long- er course if perforated. Laparoscopy: Has dia gnostic and therapeutic advantages (if surgeon experienced), especially in women and the obese. It is not recommended in cases of suspected gangrenous perf or ation as the rate of abscess formation may be higher. Complications • Perforation is commoner if a faecolith is present and in young children,as the diagnosis is more often delayed. • Appendix mass may result when an infl amed appendix becomes covered with omen- tum. US/CT may help with diagnosis. Some advocate early surgery. Alternatively, initial conservative management—NBM and antibiotics. If the mass resolves, some perform an interval (ie delayed) appendicectomy. Exclude a colonic tumour (lapa- rotomy or colonoscopy), which can present as early as the 4th decade. • Appendix abscess May result if an appendix mass fails to resolve but enlarges and the patient gets more unwell. Treatment usually involves drainage (surgical or percutaneous under US/CT-guidance). Antibiotics alone may bring resolution. 8 There is a second peak between 60–70yrs; older adults may present later with atypical symptoms. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 660088 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS Explaining the patterns of abdominal pain 609 Internal organs and the visceral peritoneum have no somatic innervation, so the brain attributes the visceral (splanchnic)
