Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


symptoms. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 660088 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS Explaining the patterns of abdominal pain 609 Internal organs and the visceral peritoneum have no somatic innervation, so the brain attributes the visceral (splanchnic) signals to a physical location whose der- matome corresponds to the same entry level in the spinal cord. Importantly, there is no laterality to the visceral unmyelinated C-fi bre pain signals, which enter the cord bilaterally and at multiple levels. Division of the gut according to embryologi- cal origin is the important determinant here: see table 13.11. Table 13.11 Somatic referral of abdominal pain Gut Division points Somatic referral Arterial supply Fore Proximal to 2nd part of duodenum Epigastrium Coeliac axis Mid Above to ⅔ along transverse colon Periumbilical Superior mesenteric Hind Distal to above Suprapubic Inferior mesenteric Early infl ammation irritates the structure and walls of the appendix, so a colicky pain is referred to the mid-abdomen—classically periumbilical. As the infl ammation progresses and irritates the parietal peritoneum (especially on examination), the somatic, lateralized pain settles at McBurney’s point, ⅔ of the way along from the umbilicus to the right anterior superior iliac spine. These principles also help us understand patterns of referred pain. In pneumo- nia, the T9 dermatome is shared by the lung and the abdomen. Also, irritation of the underside of the diaphragm (sensory innervation is from above through the phrenic nerve, C3–5) by an infl amed gallbladder or a subphrenic abscess refers pain to the right shoulder: dermatomes C3–5.  • Ectopic (do a pregnancy • Cholecystitis • Crohn’s disease test!) • Diverticulitis • Perforated ulcer • UTI (test urine!) • Salpingitis/PID • Food poisoning • Mesenteric adenitis • Dysmenorrhoea • Meckel’s diverticulum • Cystitis. Fig 13.27 Appendicectomy. Reproduced from McLatchie et al., Operative Surgery, 2006, with permission from Oxford University Press. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 660099 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 610 Obstruction of the bowel Cardinal features of intestinal obstruction •Vomiting,9 nausea and anorexia.•Colic occurs early ( in long-standing obstruction). •Constipation may be absolute (ie no faeces or fl atus passed) in distal obstruction; less pronounced if obstruction is high. •Abdominal distension  as the obstruction progresses with active, ‘tinkling’ bowel sounds. The key decisions 1 Is it obstruction of the small or large bowel? In small bowel obstruction, vomiting occurs early, distension is less, and pain is higher in the abdomen; in large bowel obstruction, pain is more constant. The AXR plays a key role (fi g
