Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


obstruction, vomiting occurs early, distension is less, and pain is higher in the abdomen; in large bowel obstruction, pain is more constant. The AXR plays a key role (fi g 13.28 & p728). 2 Is there an ileus or mechanical obstruction? Ileus is functional obstruction from bowel motility (see BOX ‘Paralytic ileus or pseudo-obstruction?’ & p728). Bowel sounds are absent; pain tends to be less. 3 Is the obstructed bowel simple/closed loop/strangulated? Simple: one obstruct- ing point and no vascular compromise. Closed loop: obstruction at two points (eg sigmoid volvulus) forming a loop of grossly distended bowel at risk of perforation. Strangulated: blood supply is compromised and the patient is iller than you would expect. There is sharper, more constant, and localized pain. Peritonism is the cardi- nal sign. There may be fever + WCC with other signs of mesenteric ischaemia (p620). Causes See table 13.12. Table 13.12 Causes of bowel obstruction Causes: small bowel Causes: large bowel Rarer causes • Adhesions (p581) • Colon ca (p616) • Crohn’s stricture • Hernias (p612) • Constipation (p260) • Gallstone ileus (p634) • Diverticular stricture • Intussusception • Volvulus • TB (developing world) • Sigmoid (see BOX ‘Sigmoid • Foreign body volvulus’) • Caecal Management • General principles: Cause, site, speed of onset, and completeness of obstruction determine defi nitive therapy: strangulation and large bowel obstruction require surgery; ileus and incomplete small bowel obstruction can be managed conserva- tively, at least initially. • Immediate action: ‘Drip and suck’—NGT and IV fl uids to rehydrate and correct electrolyte imbalance (p668). Being NBM does not give adequate rest for the bowel because it can produce up to 9L of fl uid/d. Also: analgesia, blood tests (inc. amylase, FBC, U&E), AXR, erect CXR, catheterize to monitor fl uid status. • Further imaging: CT to establish the cause of obstruction (may show dilated, fl uid- fi lled bowel and a transition zone at the site of obstruction—fi gs 13.29, 13.30). Oral Gastrografi n® prior to CT can help identify level of obstruction and may have mild therapeutic action against mechanical obstruction. Consider investigating the cause of large bowel obstruction by colonoscopy but beware risk of perforation. • Surgery: Strangulation needs emergency surgery. Closed loop obstruction may be managed with surgery or endoscopic decompression attempted. Endoscopic stenting may be used for obstructing large bowel malignancies either in palliation or as a bridge to surgery in acute obstruction
