Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


be managed with surgery or endoscopic decompression attempted. Endoscopic stenting may be used for obstructing large bowel malignancies either in palliation or as a bridge to surgery in acute obstruction (p616). Small bowel obstruction secondary to adhesions should rarely lead to surgery—see BOX, p581. 9 Fermentation of the intestinal contents in established obstruction causes ‘faeculent’ vomiti ng. True ‘fae- cal’ vomiting is found when there is a colonic fi stula with the proximal gut. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 661100 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS Paralytic ileus or pseudo-obstruction? 611 Paralytic ileus is adynamic bowel due to the absence of normal peristaltic con- tractions. Contributing factors include abdominal surgery, pancreatitis (or any localized peritonitis), spinal injury, hypokalaemia, hyponatraemia, uraemia, perito- neal sepsis and drugs (eg tricyclic antidepressants). Pseudo-obstruction resembles mechanical GI obstruction but with no obstruct- ing lesion. Acute colonic pseudo-obstruction is called Ogilvie’s syndrome (p706), and clinical features are similar to that of mechanical obstruction. Predisposing factors: puerperium; pelvic surgery; trauma; cardiorespiratory and neurological disorders. Treatment: Neostigmine or colonoscopic decompression are sometimes useful. In chronic pseudo-obstruction weight loss from malabsorption is a problem. Sigmoid volvulus Sigmoid volvulus occurs when the bowel twists on its mesentery, which can pro- duce severe, rapid, strangulated obstruction (fi g 13.28c). It tends to occur in the elderly, constipated, and comorbid patient, and is managed by insertion of a fl atus tube or sigmoidoscopy. Sigmoid colectomy is sometimes required. If not treated successfully, it can progress to perforation and fatal peritonitis. (a) (b) (c) Fig 13.28 (a) Small bowel obstruction: AXR shows central gas shadows with valvulae conniventes that completely cross the lumen and no gas in the large bowel. (b) Large bowel obstruction: AXR shows peripheral gas shadows proximal to the blockage (eg in caecum) but not in the rectum. (c) Sigmoid volvulus: there is a characteristic AXR with an ‘inverted U’ loop of bowel that looks a bit like a coff ee bean. Images (a), (b), and (c) reproduced from Darby et al., Oxford Handbook of Medical Imaging, 2011, with permission from Oxford University Press. Fig 13.29 Unenhanced axial CT of the ab- Fig 13.30 Axial CT of the abdomen post-oral con- domen showing multiple loops of dilated, trast showing dilated loops of fl uid and air-fi lled fl uid-fi lled small bowel in a patient with small large bowel (contrast medium is in the small bowel obstruction. bowel). Image courtesy of Norwich Radiology Dept. Image courtesy of
