Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


fl uid-fi lled small bowel in a patient with small large bowel (contrast medium is in the small bowel obstruction. bowel). Image courtesy of Norwich Radiology Dept. Image courtesy of Norwich Radiology Dept. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 661111 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 612 Abdominal hernias Defi nition The protrusion of a viscus or part of a viscus through a defect of the walls of its containing cavity into an abnormal position. See fi g 13.31. Terminology: • Irreducible: contents cannot be pushed back into place (see p614 for technique). • Obstructed: bowel contents cannot pass—features of intestinal obstruction (p610). • Strangulated: ischaemia occurs—the patient requires urgent surgery. • Incarceration: contents of the hernial sac are stuck inside by adhesions. Care must be taken with reduction as it is possible to push an incarcerated hernia back into the abdominal cavity, giving the initial appearance of successful reduction. Inguinal hernia The commonest type in both  &  (but >>), p614. Femoral hernia Bowel enters the femoral canal, presenting as a mass in the upper medial thigh or above the inguinal ligament where it points down the leg, unlike an inguinal hernia which points to the groin. They oc- cur more often in  especially in middle age and the elderly. They are likely to be irreducible and to strangulate due to the rigidity of the canal’s borders. Anatomy:See fi g 13..32 Differential diagnosis: (See p651.) 1 Inguinal hernia. 2 Saphena varix. 3 An enlarged Cloquet’s node (p615). 4 Lipoma. 5 Femoral aneurysm. 6 Psoas abscess. Treatment: Surgical repair is recommended. Herniotomy is ligation and excision of the sac, herniorrhaphy is repair of the hernial defect. Paraumbilical hernias occur just above or below the umbilicus. Risk factors are obesity and ascites. Omentum or bowel herniates through the defect. Surgery in- volves repair of the rectus sheath (Mayo repair). Epigastric hernias pass through linea alba above the umbilicus. Incisional hernias follow breakdown of muscle closure after surgery (11–20%). If obese, repair is not easy. Mesh repair has recurrence but infection over sutures. Spigelian hernias occur through the linea semilunaris at the lateral edge of the rectus sheath, below and lateral to the umbilicus. Lumbar hernias occur through the inferior or superior lumbar triangles in the pos- terior abdominal wall. Richter’s hernias involve bowel wall only—not the whole lumen. Maydl’s hernias involve a herniating ‘double loop’ of bowel. The strangulated por- tion may reside as a single loop
