Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


abdominal wall. Richter’s hernias involve bowel wall only—not the whole lumen. Maydl’s hernias involve a herniating ‘double loop’ of bowel. The strangulated por- tion may reside as a single loop inside the abdominal cavity. Littré’s hernias are hernial sacs containing strangulated Meckel’s diverticulum. Obturator hernias occur through the obturator canal. Typically there is pain along the medial side of the thigh in a thin woman. Sciatic hernias pass through the lesser sciatic foramen (a way through var ious pelvic ligaments). GI obstruction + a gluteal mass suggests this rare possibility. Sliding hernias contain a partially extraperitoneal structure (eg caecum on the right, sigmoid colon on the left). The sac does not completely surround the contents. Paediatric hernias include Umbilical hernias: (3% of live births). Are a result of a persistent defect in the transversalis fascia. Surgical repair rarely needed as most resolve by the age of 3. Indirect inguinal hernias (~ 4% of all  infants due to patent processus vaginalis—prematurity is a risk factor; uncommon in  infants—consider testicular feminization.) Surgical repair is required. Gastroschisis: Protrusion of the abdominal contents through a defect in the anterior abdominal wall to the right of the umbilicus. Prompt surgical repair required. Exomphalos: Abdominal contents are found outside the abdomen, covered in a three-layer membrane consisting of peritoneum, Wharton’s jelly, and amnion. Surgical repair less urgent because the bowel is protected by these membranes. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 661122 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 613 Fig 13.31 Some examples of hernias. Fig 13.32 The boundaries of the femoral canal are anteriorly the ingui- nal ligament; medially the lacunar ligament (and pubic bone); laterally the femoral vein (and iliopsoas); and posteriorly the pectineal ligament and pectineus. The canal contains fat and Cloquet’s node. The neck of the hernia is felt inferior and lateral to the pubic tubercle (inguinal her- nias are superior and medial to this point). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 661133 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 614 Inguinal hernias Indirect hernias pass through the internal inguinal ring and, if large, out through the external ring (fi g. 13.33). Direct hernias push their way directly forward through the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, into a defect in the abdominal wall (Hes- selbach’s triangle; medial to the inferior epigastric vessels and lateral to the rectus abdominus). Predisposing conditions: males (:≈8:1), chronic cough, constipation, urinary obstruction, heavy lifting, ascites, past abdominal surgery (eg damage to the iliohypogastric nerve during appendicectomy). There are two landmarks to
