Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


rectus abdominus). Predisposing conditions: males (:≈8:1), chronic cough, constipation, urinary obstruction, heavy lifting, ascites, past abdominal surgery (eg damage to the iliohypogastric nerve during appendicectomy). There are two landmarks to identify: the deep (internal) ring may be defi ned as being the mid-point of the inguinal liga- ment, ~1½ cm above the femoral pulse (which crosses the mid-inguinal point); the superfi cial (external) ring is a split in the external oblique aponeurosis just superior and medial to the pubic tubercle (the bony prominence forming the medial attach- ment of the inguinal ligament). Examination Look for previous scars; feel the other side (more common on the right); examine the external genitalia. Then ask: •Is the lump visible? If so, ask the patient to reduce it—if he cannot, make sure that it is not a scrotal lump. Ask him to cough. Appears above and medial to the pubic tubercle. •If no lump is visible, feel for a cough impulse. •Repeat the examination with the patient standing. Dis- tinguishing direct from indirect hernias: This is loved by examiners but is of little clinical use—not least because repair is the same for both (see ‘Repairs’ later in topic). The best way is to reduce the hernia and occlude the deep (internal) ring with two fi ngers. Ask the patient to cough or stand—if the hernia is restrained, it is indirect; if not, it is direct. The ‘gold standard’ for determining the type of inguinal hernia is at surgery: direct hernias arise medial to the inferior epigastric vessels; indirect hernias are lateral. Indirect hernias: Direct hernias: Femoral hernias: • Common (80%) • Less common (20%) • More frequent in females • Can strangulate. • Reduce easily • Frequently irreducible • Rarely strangulate. • Frequently strangulate. Irreducible hernias You may be called because a long-standing hernia is now ir- reducible and painful. It is always worth trying to reduce these yourself to prevent strangulation and necrosis (demanding prompt laparotomy). Learn how to do this from an expert, ie one of your patients who has been reducing his hernia for years. Then you will know how to act correctly when the emergency presents. Notice that such patients use the fl at of the hand, directing the hernia from below, up towards the contralateral shoulder. Sometimes, as the hernia obstructs, reduction requires perseverance, which may be rewarded by a gurgle from the retreating bowel and a kiss from
