Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


from below, up towards the contralateral shoulder. Sometimes, as the hernia obstructs, reduction requires perseverance, which may be rewarded by a gurgle from the retreating bowel and a kiss from the attending spouse who had thought that surgery was inevitable. Repairs Weight loss (if over-weight) and stop smoking pre-op. Warn that hernias may recur and patients should be counselled about possibility of chronic pain post- operatively. Mesh techniques (eg Lichtenstein repair) have replaced older methods. In mesh repairs, a polypropylene mesh reinforces the posterior wall. Recurrence rate is less than with other methods (eg <2% vs 10%). (CI: strangulated hernias, con- tamination with pus/bowel contents.) Local anaesthetic techniques and day-case ‘ambulatory’ surgery may halve the price of surgery. This is important because this is one of the most common operations (>100 000 per year in the UK). Laparoscopic repair gives similar recurrence rates. Methods include transabdominal pre-perito- neal (TAPP) in which the peritoneum is entered and the hernia repaired, and totally extraperitoneal (TEP), which decreases the risk of visceral injury. For benefi ts of lapa- roscopic surgery see p592. Return to work: Will depend upon surgical approach and patient—discuss this pre- operatively. Rest for 4wks and convalescence over 8wks with open approaches, but laparoscopic repairs may allow return to manual work (and driving) after ≤2wks if all is well. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 661144 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS Anterior superior Inferior epigastric 615 iliac spine vessels Deep inguinal ring Indirect inguinal hernia Direct inguinal hernia Deep inguinal node Course of spermatic cord Superficial ring Pubic tubercle Nerve Femoral Artery Femoral hernia Vein Cloquet’s node Fig 13.33 Anatomy of the inguinal canal. Floor: Inguinal ligament and lacunar ligament medially; Roof: Fibres of transversalis, internal oblique; Anterior: External oblique aponeurosis + internal oblique for the lateral ⅓ ; Posterior: Laterally, transversalis fascia; medially, conjoint tendon. The contents of the inguinal canal in the male • The external spermatic fascia (from external oblique), cremasteric fascia (from internal oblique and transverses abdominus), and internal spermatic fascia (from transversalis fascia) covering the cord. • The spermatic cord: • Vas deferens, obliterated processus vaginalis, and lymphatics. • Arteries to the vas, cremaster, and testis. • The pampiniform plexus and the venous equivalent of the above. • The genital branch of the genitofemoral nerve and sympathetic nerves. • The ilioinguinal nerve, which enters the inguinal canal via the anterior wall and runs anteriorly to the cord. NB: in the female the
