Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Table 13.13 Colorectal cancer: TNM staging Tx Primary tumour cannot be assessed Nx Nodes cannot be assessed Tis Carcinoma in situ N0 No node spread T1 Invading submucosa N1 Metastases in 1–3 regional nodes T2 Invading muscularis propria N2 Metastases in >3 regional nodes T3 Invading subserosa and beyond (not M0 No distant spread other organs) T4 Invasion of adjacent structures M1 Distant metastasis Reproduced with permission from Edge, SB et al. (Eds.), AJCC Cancer Staging Manual, 7th Edition. New York: Springer; 2010. TNM status used to defi ne overall stage. This is complex with several important subtypes, but in essence, stage 1 disease is T1 or T2/N0/M0; stage 2 is T3 or T4/N0/M0; stage 3 is characterized by N1 or N2 but still M0; stage 4 is M1. Polyps, the challenges of screening, and the NHS Polyps are growths that appear above the mucosa and can be infl ammatory, hamartomatous, or neoplastic. Left in situ, polyps carry a risk of malignant trans- formation that will relate to size and histology (tubular or villous adenomas, esp. if >2cm). Patients with polyps may have no symptoms and thus a colonoscopy is required to detect and remove. Colonscopy allows the opportunity to detect colo- rectal cancer at an earlier stage when treatment may be more eff ective. However, population-based colonoscopic screening is costly and some studies have suggested that the test does not impact on deaths from right-sided can- cers which are rarer and harder to detect (fi g 13.34). Therefore, the NHS has intro- duced a one-off screening fl exible sigmoidoscopy off ered to all people in their 55th year. Trial results have shown the incidence of colorectal cancer in the intervention (screening) group is reduced by 33% and mortality from colorectal cancer is reduced by 43%. Number needed to screen to prevent one diagnosis (=191); or death (=489). In parallel, the NHS Bowel Cancer Screening Programme (introduced in 2006) of- fers colonoscopy to all men and women aged 60–75 who test positive for faecal occult blood (FOB) using a home testing kit performed every 2 years. This FOB- stratifi cation targets screening to those in the highest risk groups, permitting detection of more advanced adenomas and early stage cancers. The relative risk of death from colorectal cancer in patients undergoing screening is reduced by 16%. A 11% increase in incidence rates since 2006 for people aged 60–69 is almost certainly
