Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


to it is the arch of the aorta. Image courtesy of Dr Stephen Golding. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 661188 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS Carcinoma of the stomach 619 Incidence of adenocarcinoma at the gastro-oesophageal junction is increasing in the West, though incidence of distal and gastric body carcinoma has fallen sharply. It remains a tumour notable for its gloomy prognosis and non-specifi c presentation. Incidence 23/100 000/yr in the UK, but there are unexplained wide geographical variations; it is espe cially common in Japan, as well as Eastern Europe, China, and South America.  :  ≈ 2 : 1. Risk factors: Pernicious anaemia, blood group A, H. pylori (p252), atrophic gastritis, adenomatous polyps, lower social class, smoking, diet (high nitrate, high salt, pickling, low vitamin C), nitrosamine exposure. Pathology A range of clinical and histological classifi cations are in use. Of note, ‘early’ gastric carcinoma (confi ned to mucosa and submucosa) carries a better prognosis with endoscopic resection often possible. Presentation Symptoms: Often non-specifi c. Dyspepsia (p59; age ≥55yrs with treatment-refractory symptoms demands investigation), weight, vomiting, dyspha- gia, anaemia. Signs suggesting incurable disease: epigastric mass, hepatomegaly; jaundice, ascites (p604); large left supraclavicular (Virchow’s) node (=Troisier’s sign); acanthosis nigricans (p562). Most patients in the West present with locally advanced (inoperable) or metastatic disease. Spread is local, lymphatic, blood-borne, and transcoelomic, eg to ovaries (Krukenberg tumour). Tests Gastroscopy + multiple ulcer edge biopsies. Aim to biopsy all gastric ul- cers as even malignant ulcers may appear to heal on drug treatment. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) can evaluate depth of invasion; CT/MRI helps staging. Staging lapa- roscopy is recommended for locally advanced tumours. Cytology of peritoneal wash- ings can help identify peritoneal metastases. Treatment See p622 for a description of surgical resections. Early gastric cancers may be resectable endoscopically (endoscopic mucosal resection). Partial gastrec- tomy may suffi ce for more advanced distal tumours. If proximal, total gast rectomy may be needed. Combination chemotherapy (eg epirubicin, cisplatin and fl uorouracil) appears to increase survival in advanced disease. If given perioperatively in operable disease it improves survival compared to surgery alone. Surgical palliation is often needed for obstruction, pain, or haemorrhage. In locally advanced and metastatic disease, chemotherapy increases quality of life and survival. Targeted therapies are likely to have an increasing role, eg trastuzumab for HER-2-positive tumours. 5yr survival <10% overall, but nearly 20% for patients undergoing radical surgery. The prognosis is much better for ‘early’ gastric carcinoma.
