Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


have an increasing role, eg trastuzumab for HER-2-positive tumours. 5yr survival <10% overall, but nearly 20% for patients undergoing radical surgery. The prognosis is much better for ‘early’ gastric carcinoma. Bile duct and gallbladder cancers All are rare, have an overall poor prognosis, and are diffi cult to diagnose. They ac- count for ~3% of all GI cancers worldwide, but there is geographical variation ( in north-east Thailand, Japan, Korea, and Eastern Europe). Most are adenocarcino- mas. Primary sclerosing cholangitis (p282) is the commonest predisposing factor in the West. Presentation: Varies according to location and may include obstructive jaundice, pruritus, abdominal pain, weight loss, and anorexia. Investigations: US, CT, and ERCP. MRI has a role for determining extent of invasion in bile duct cancers. Treatment: • Bile duct cancer: surgical resection is the only potentially curative treatment yet ~80% present with inoperable disease. Palliation includes biliary stenting and chemotherapy. • Gallbladder cancer: again, radical surgery is the only chance of cure. Patients with a calcified (‘porcelain’) gallbladder have an increased risk of cancer—pro- phylactic surgery should be considered. Palliative treatment of inoperable dis- ease includes biliary stenting and chemotherapy. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 661199 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 620 Bowel ischaemia There are three main types of bowel ischaemia: AF with abdominal pain should always prompt thoughts of mesenteric ischaemia. 1 Acute mesenteric ischaemia almost always involves the small bowel and may follow superior mesenteric artery (SMA; fi g 13.36) thrombosis (~35%) or embolism (~35%), mesenteric vein thrombosis (~5%; younger patients with hypercoagulable states—tends to aff ect smaller lengths of bowel), or non-occlusive disease (~20%; occurs in low-fl ow states and usually refl ects poor cardiac output, though there may be other factors such as recent cardiac surgery or renal failure). Other causes include trauma, vasculitis (p556), radiotherapy, or strangulation (volvulus or hernia, p612). Presentation is a classical clinical triad: acute severe abdominal pain; no/minimal abdominal signs; rapid hypovolaemiashock. Pain tends to be constant, central, or around the RIF. The degree of illness is often far out of proportion with clinical signs. Tests: There may be Hb (due to plasma loss), WCC, modestly raised plasma am- ylase, and a persistent metabolic acidosis (high lactate). Early on, the abdominal x-ray shows a ‘gasless’ abdomen. CT/MR may show evidence of ischaemia with CT/MR angiography or formal arteriography if doubt remains. Often the diganosis is made on fi nding a nasty, necrotic bowel at laparotomy. Treatment: The
