Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


may show evidence of ischaemia with CT/MR angiography or formal arteriography if doubt remains. Often the diganosis is made on fi nding a nasty, necrotic bowel at laparotomy. Treatment: The main life-threatening complications secondary to acute mesenteric ischaemia are 1 septic peritonitis and 2 progression of a systemic infl ammatory re- sponse syndrome (SIRS) to multi-organ failure, mediated by bacterial translocation across the dying gut wall. Resuscitation with fl uid, antibiotics (eg piperacillin/tazo- bactam, see table 9.3, p386), and, usually, LMWH/heparin are required. If arteriogra- phy is done, thrombolytics may be infused locally via the catheter. At surgery, dead bowel must be removed. Revascularization may be attempted on potentially viable bowel but it is a diffi cult process and often needs a 2nd laparotomy. Prognosis: Poor for arterial thrombosis and non-occlusive disease (<40% survive), though not so bad for venous and embolic ischaemia. 2 Chronic mesenteric ischaemia (AKA intestinal angina.) The triad of severe, colicky post-prandial abdominal pain (‘gut claudication’), weight (eating hurts), and an up- per abdominal bruit may be present ± PR bleeding, malabsoprtion, and N&V. Typically brought about through a combination of a low-fl ow state with atheroma (95% due to diff use atherosclerotic disease in all three mesenteric arteries). It is rare and diffi cult to diagnose. Tests: CT angiography and contrast-enhanced MR angiography are replac- ing traditional angiography. Treatment: Once diagnosis is confi rmed, surgery should be considered due to the ongoing risk of acute infarction. Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and stent insertion has replaced open revascularization. It is associated with less post-operative morbidity and mortality, but has higher restenosis rates. 3 Chronic colonic ischaemia (AKA ischaemic colitis) usually follows low fl ow in the inferior mesenteric artery (IMA) territory and ranges from mild ischaemia to gan- grenous colitis. Presentation: Lower left-sided abdominal pain ± bloody diarrhoea. Tests: CT may be helpful but lower GI endoscopy is ‘gold-standard’. Treatment: Usu- ally conservative with fl uid replacement and antibiotics. Most recover but subse- quent development of ischaemic strictures is common. Gangrenous ischaemic colitis (presenting with peritonitis and hypovolaemic shock) requires prompt resuscitation followed by resection of the aff ected bowel and stoma formation. Mortality is high. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 662200 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 621 Fig 13.36 The arterial supply to the colon. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 662211 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 622 Gastric surgery and its aftermath Indications for gastric surgery include gastric cancer (p619) and perforated/ haemorrhaging peptic ulcers. Medical therapy (p252)
