Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


to the colon. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 662211 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 622 Gastric surgery and its aftermath Indications for gastric surgery include gastric cancer (p619) and perforated/ haemorrhaging peptic ulcers. Medical therapy (p252) for peptic ulcers has made elective surgery exceedingly rare/redundant. Emergency surgery may be needed for haemorrhage or perforation. Haemorr hage is usually treated by under-running the bleeding ulcer base or excision of the ulcer. If the former is done, then a biopsy should be taken to exclude malignancy. Perforation is usually managed by excision of the hole for histology, then closure. Gastric carcinoma Localized disease may be treated by curative gastrectomy. Le- sions in the proximal third or extensive infi ltrative disease require total gastrectomy, while lesions in the distal two-thirds can be treated with a partial gastrectomy. Lapa- roscopic surgery may be as eff ective and safe as open surgery in specialist centres. Surgery: Billroth I: Partial gastrectomy with simple gastroduodenal re-anastomosis. Billroth II (AKA Polya) gastrectomy: (fi g 13.37) Partial gastrectomy with gastroje- junal anastomosis. The duodenal stump is oversewn (leaving a blind aff erent loop), and anastomosis is achieved by a longitud inal incision into the proximal jejunum. Roux-en-Y: (fi g 13.38) Following total or subtotal gastrectomy, the proximal duodenal stump is oversewn, the proximal jejunum is divided from the distal duodenum and con- nects with the oesophagus (or proximal stomach after subtotal gastrectomy), while the distal duodenum is connected to the distal jejunum. Lymph node clearance is a controversial area. RCTS and meta-analyses suggest there may be limited benefi t and increased morbidity associated with extended lymph node resections (D2 or D3) over resection limited to the perigastric nodes (D1). Physical complications of gastrectomy • Abdominal fullness: Feeling of early satiety (± discomfort and distension) im- proving with time. Advise to take small, frequent meals. • Afferent loop syndrome: Post-gastrectomy (eg Billroth II), the aff erent loop may fi ll with bile after a meal, causing upper abdominal pain and bilious vomit- ing. This is diffi cult to treat—but often improves with time. • Diarrhoea: May be disabling after vagotomy. Codeine phosphate may help. • Gastric tumour: A rare complication of any surgery which  acid production. • Amylase: If with abdominal pain, this may indicate aff erent loop obstruction after Billroth II surgery and requires emergency surgery. Metabolic complications • Dumping syndrome: Fainting and sweating after eating due to food of high os- motic potential
