Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


and psychosocial concerns, as well as lifelong medical monitoring). 5 The patient must be well informed and motivated. If BMI ≥50, or in newly diagnosed T2DM with BMI ≥30, surgery is recommended as fi rst-line treatment. Comparison with medical therapy Surgery is more eff ective in achieving weight loss than non-surgical management and weight loss is more likely to be maintained in the longer term. Adverse events are more common following surgery, and vary from one procedure to another. Procedures There are two main mechanisms causing weight loss: 1 Restriction of calorie intake by reducing stomach capacity. 2 Malabsorption of nutrients by reduc- ing the length of functional small bowel. NB: This also aff ects the levels of circulating gut peptides (eg PYY and GLP-1), which are thought to play a role in the mechanism of satiety and weight loss. Choose surgical intervention jointly with patient: • Laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding (LAGB): This restrictive technique creates a pre-stomach pouch by placing a silicone band around the top of the stomach, which serves as a new smaller stomach. The band can be adjusted by addition or removal of saline through a subcutaneous port (see fi g 13.40). LAGB is associated with improve- ments in comorbidities and quality of life. Weight loss is slower and less than with gastric bypass but there is lower mortality and fewer complications. Relatively non- invasive and band removal possible. Complications: pouch enlargement, band slip, band erosion, and port infection/breakage. • Sleeve gastrectomy: (fi g 13.41) Involves division of the stomach vertically, reduc- ing it in size by about 75%. The pyloric valve at the bottom of the stomach is left intact so function and digestion are unaltered. The procedure is not reversible and may be a fi rst stage for progression to Roux-en-Y gastric bypass or duodenal switch in very obese patients where a single-stage procedure would be technically diffi cult or unsafe. • Roux-en-Y gastric bypass: (fi g 13.42) Laparoscopic or open. A portion of the jeju- num is attached to a small stomach pouch to allow food to bypass the distal stom- ach, duodenum, and proximal jejunum. It can be performed laparoscopically and works by both restriction and malabsorption. Mean excess weight loss at 5 years is 62.8%. Current evidence demonstrates greater weight loss, greater resolution of comorbidities, and lower reoperation rates compared to LAGB. Complications: mi- cronutrient defi ciency (requires vitamin supplementation and
