Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


crystalloid as replacement and maintenance IVI. Blood transfu- sion only if signifi cant blood loss (table 13.10, p607).  Clotting: Withold ± reverse anticoagulation and antiplatelet agents (p351).  Antibiotics may occasionally be required if there is evidence of sepsis or perfo- ration, eg piperacillin/tazobactam 4.5g/8h IV.  Keep bedbound: The patient may feel the need to get out of bed to pass stool, but this could be another large bleed, resulting in collapse if they try to walk. Don’t allow them to mobilize and inform the nursing staff of this.  Start a stool chart to monitor volume and frequency of motions. Send a sample for MC&S (x3 if known to have compromising comorbidity such as IBD).  Diet: Keep on clear fl uids so that they can have something, yet the colon will be as clear as possible if colonoscopy required.  Interventions if bleeding not settling with conservative management: Angi- ography may allow localization of bleeding (eg sigmoid diverticulum or right sided angiodysplasia) as well as therapeutic embolization; CT angiography is a non-invasive alternative (without interventional options); colonoscopy may permit endoscopic haemostasis.  Surgery: The main indication for this is unremitting, massive bleeding that is not controlled by other means. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 662299 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 630 Perianal problems Pruritus ani Itch occurs if the anus is moist/soiled; fi ssures, incontinence, poor hy- giene, tight pants, threadworm, fi stula, dermatoses, lichen sclerosis, anxiety, contact dermatitis (perfumed goods). Cause is often unknown. : Avoid scratching, perianal hygiene, avoid foods which loosen stools. Soothing ointment, mild topical corticos- teroid if perinanal infl ammation (max 2wks), oral antihistamine for noctural itch. Fissure-in-ano Painful tear in the squamous lining of the lower anal canal—often, if chronic, with a ‘sentinel pile’ or mucosal tag at the external aspect. 90% are posterior (anterior ones follow parturition). >. Causes: Most are due to hard faeces. Spasm may constrict the inferior rectal artery, causing ischaemia, making healing diffi cult and perpetuating the problem. Rare causes (multiple ± lateral): syphilis; herpes; trauma; Crohn’s; anal cancer; psoriasis. Groin nodes suggest a complicating factor (eg immunosuppression/HIV). : 5% lidocaine ointment + GTN ointment (0.2–0.4%) or topical diltiazem (2%) ; dietary fi bre, fl uids, stool softener, and hygiene advice. Botu- linum toxin injection (2nd line) and topical diltiazem (2%) are at least as eff ective as GTN with fewer side-eff ects. If conservative measures fail, surgical options include lateral
