Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Botu- linum toxin injection (2nd line) and topical diltiazem (2%) are at least as eff ective as GTN with fewer side-eff ects. If conservative measures fail, surgical options include lateral partial internal sphincterotomy. Fistula-in-ano A track communicates between the skin and anal canal/rectum. Blockage of deep intramuscular gland ducts is thought to predispose to the forma- tion of abscesses, which discharge to form the fi stula. Goodsall’s rule determines the path of the fi stula track: if anterior, the track is in a straight line (radial); if poste- rior, the internal opening is always at the 6 o’clock position, taking a tortuous course. Causes: perianal sepsis, abscesses (see later in topic), Crohn’s disease, TB, diverticu- lar disease, rectal carcinoma, immunocompromise. Tests: MRI; endoanal US scan. : Fistulot omy + excision. High fi stulae (involving continence muscles of anus) require ‘seton suture’ tightened over time to maintain continence; low fi stulae are ‘laid open’ to heal by secondary intention—division of sphincters poses no risk to continence. Anorectal abscesses Usually caused by gut organisms (rarely staphs or TB). :≈1:8. Perianal (~45%), ischiorectal (≤30%), intersphincteric (>20%), supralevator (~5%) (fi g 13.43). : Incise & drain under GA. Associations: DM, Crohn’s, malignancy, fi stulae. Perianal haematoma (AKA thrombosed external pile—see p633). Strictly, it is actu- ally a clotted venous saccule. It appears as a 2–4mm ‘dark blueberry’ under the skin at the anal margin. It may be evacuated under LA or left to resolve spontaneously. Pilonidal sinus Obstruction of natal cleft hair follicles ~6cm above the anus. In- growing of hair excites a foreign body reaction and may cause secondary tracks to open laterally ± abscesses, with foul-smelling discharge. (Barbers get these between fi ngers.) :≈10:1. Obese Caucasians and those from Asia, the Middle East, and Mediterranean at risk. : Excision of the sinus tract ± primary closure. Consider pre- op antibiotics. Complex tracks can be laid open and packed individually, or skin fl aps can be used to cover the defect. Off er hygiene and hair removal advice. Rectal prolapse The mucosa (partial/type 1), or all layers (complete/type 2—more common), may protrude through the anus. Incontinence in 75%. It is due to a lax sphincter, prolonged straining, and related to chronic neurological and psychological disorders. : Abdominal approach: fi x rectum to sacrum (rectopexy) ± mesh inser- tion ± rectosigmoidectomy. Laparoscopic rectoplexy is as eff ective as open repair. Perineal approach: Delorme’s procedure
