Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


psychological disorders. : Abdominal approach: fi x rectum to sacrum (rectopexy) ± mesh inser- tion ± rectosigmoidectomy. Laparoscopic rectoplexy is as eff ective as open repair. Perineal approach: Delorme’s procedure (resect close to dentate line and suture mucosal boundaries), anal encirclement with a Thiersch wire. Perianal warts Condylomata acuminata (viral warts) are treated with podophyllo- toxin or imiquimod or cryotherapy/surgical excision. Giant condylomata acuminata of Buschke & Loewenstein may evolve into verrucous cancers (low-grade, non-me- tastasizing). Condylomata lata secondary to syphilis is treated with penicillin. Proctalgia fugax Idiopathic, intense, brief, stabbing/crampy rectal pain, often worse at night. The mainstay of treatment is reassurance. Inhaled salbutamol or topical GTN (0.2–0.4%) or topical diltiazem (2%) may help. Anal ulcers Consider Crohn’s, anal cancer, lymphogranuloma venerum, TB, syphilis. Skin tags Seldom cause trouble but are easily excised. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 663300 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS Anal cancer 631 Incidence: 1233 new cases of anal cancer in the UK (2013). Risk factors: Anorec eptive intercourse; HPV (HPV 16 associated with worse prognosis); HIV. Histology: Squamous cell (85%); rarely basaloid, melanoma, or adenocarcinoma. Anal margin tumours are usually well-diff erentiated, keratinizing lesions with a good prognosis. Anal ca- nal tumours arise above dentate line, are poorly diff erentiated and non-keratinizing with a poorer prognosis. Spread: Tumours above the dentate line spread to pelvic lymph nodes; those below spread to the inguinal nodes. Presentation: Bleeding, pain, bowel habit change, pruritus ani, masses, stricture. : Perianal warts; leu- coplakia; lichen sclerosis; Bowen’s disease; Crohn’s disease. Treatment: Chemo- irradiation (radiotherapy+ fl uorouracil + mitomycin/cisplatin) is usually prefer red to anor ectal excision & colostomy; 75% retain normal anal function. Fig 13.43 Anatomy of the anal canal. Perianal abscesses present as tender, infl amed, localized swellings at the anal verge. Ischiorectal abscess es are also tender but cause a diff use, indurated swelling in the ischioanal fossa area. You will fi nd your patient waiting anx- iously for you, pac ing about, or on the edge of their chair: avoid- ing all pressure is imperative. NB: above the dentate line = visceral nerve innervation (hence no pain sensation); below = somatic inner- vation (very sensitive to pain). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 663311 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 632 Haemorrhoids (piles) Defi nition Haemorrhoids (≈running blood in Greek) are disrupted and dilated anal cushions. The anus is lined mainly by discontinuous masses of spongy vascular tis- sue—the anal cushions, which contribute to anal closure. Viewed from the lithotomy
