Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


are disrupted and dilated anal cushions. The anus is lined mainly by discontinuous masses of spongy vascular tis- sue—the anal cushions, which contribute to anal closure. Viewed from the lithotomy position, the three anal cushions are at 3, 7, and 11 o’clock (where the three major arteries that feed the vascular plexuses enter the anal canal). They are attached by smooth muscle and elastic tissue, but are prone to displacement and disrup- tion, either singly or together. The eff ects of gravity (standing), increased anal tone (?stress), and the eff ects of straining at stool may make them become both bulky and loose, and so to protrude to form piles (Latin pila, meaning a ball). They are vulnerable to trauma (eg from hard stools) and bleed readily from the capillaries (bright red blood) of the underlying lamina propria. NB: piles are not varicose veins. As there are no sensory fi bres above the dentate line (squamomucosal junction), piles are not painful unless they thrombose when they protrude and are gripped by the anal sphincter, blocking venous return. See fi g 13.44. Diff erential diagnosis Perianal haematoma; anal fi ssure; abscess; tumour; proctalgia fugax. Never ascribe rectal bleeding to piles without examination or investigation. Causes Constipation with prolonged straining is a key factor. In many the bowel habit may be normal. Congestion from a pelvic tumour, pregnancy, CCF, or portal hypertension are important in only a minority of cases. Elicit red fl ags in history. Pathogenesis There is a vicious circle: vascular cushions protrude through a tight anus, become more congested, and hypertrophy to protrude again more readily. These protrusions may then strangulate. See table 13.15 for classifi cation. Symptoms Bright red rectal bleeding, often coating stools, on the tissue, or drip- ping into the pan after defecation. There may be mucous discharge and pruritus ani. Severe anaemia may occur. Symptoms such as weight loss, tenesmus, and change in bowel habit should prompt thoughts of other pathology. In all rectal bleeding do: • An abdominal examination to rule out other diseases. • PR exam: prolapsing piles are obvious. Internal haemorrhoids are not palpable. • Colonoscopy/fl exible sigmoidoscopy to exclude proximal pathology if 50 years old. Treatment 1 Medical: (1st-degree.) Fluid and fibre is key ± topical analgesics & stool softener (bulk forming). Topical steroids for short periods only. 2 Non-operative: (2nd & 3rd degree, or 1st degree if medical therapy failed.)
