Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


40yrs. 90% remain asymptomatic. Risk factors for stones becoming symptomatic: smoking; parity. Biliary colic Gallstones are symptomatic with cystic duct obstruction or if passed into the common bile duct (CBD10). RUQ pain (radiates  back) ± jaundice. : Analgesia (see p636), rehydrate, NBM. Elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy (see BOX ‘Early or delayed cholecystectomy?’). Do urinalysis, CXR, and ECG. Acute cholecystitis follows stone or sludge impaction in the neck of the gallblad- der (GB10), which may cause continuous epigastric or RUQ pain (referred to the right shoulder—see p609), vomiting, fever, local peritonism, or a GB mass. The main dif- ference from biliary colic is the infl ammatory component (local peritonism, fever, WCC; see table 13.16). If the stone moves to the CBD, obstructive jaundice and cholan- gitis may occur—see BOX ‘Complications of gallstones’. Murphy’s sign: lay 2 fi ngers over the RUQ; ask patient to breathe in. This causes pain & arrest of inspiration as an infl amed GB impinges on your fi ngers. It is only +ve if the same test in the LUQ does not cause pain. A phlegmon (RUQ mass of infl amed adherent omentum and bowel) may be palpable. Tests: WCC, US—a thick-walled, shrunken GB (also seen in chronic disease), peri cholecystic fl uid, stones, CBD (dilated if >6mm). Plain AXR only shows ~10% of gallstones; it may identify a ‘porcelain’ GB (associated risk of cancer). Treatment: NBM, pain relief, IVI, and antibiotics, eg co-amoxiclav 625mg/8h IV. Lapa- roscopic cholecystectomy is the treatment of choice for all patients fi t for GA. Open surgery is required if there is GB perforation. If elderly or high risk/unsuita ble for surgery,consi der percutaneous cholecystostomy; cholecystectomy can still be done later. Cholecystostomy is also the preferred treatment for acalculous cholecystitis. Chronic cholecystitis Chronic infl ammation ± colic. ‘Flatulent dyspepsia’: vague abdom inal discomfort, distension, nausea, fl atulence, and fat intolerance (fat stimu- lates cholecystokinin release and GB contraction). US to image stones and assess CBD diameter. MRCP (p742) is used to fi nd CBD stones. : Cholec ystectomy. If US shows a di- lated CBD with stones, ERCP (p742) + sphincterotomy before surgery. If symptoms per- sist post-surgery consider hiatus hernia/IBS/peptic ulcer/chronic pancreatitis/tumour. Other presentations • Obstructive jaundice with CBD stones: (See p272.) If LFT worsening, ERCP with sphincterotomy ± biliary trawl, then cholecystectomy may be needed, or open sur- gery with CBD exploration. If CBD stones are suspected pre-operatively, they
