Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


(See p272.) If LFT worsening, ERCP with sphincterotomy ± biliary trawl, then cholecystectomy may be needed, or open sur- gery with CBD exploration. If CBD stones are suspected pre-operatively, they should be identifi ed by MRCP (p742). • Cholangitis: (Bile duct infection.) Causing RUQ pain, jaundice, and rigors (Charcot’s triad, BOX ‘Complications of gallstones’). Treat with, eg piperacillin/tazobactam 4.5g/8h IV. • Gallstone ileus: A stone erodes through the GB into the duodenum; it may then obstruct the terminal ileum. AXR shows: air in CBD (= pneumobilia), small bowel fl uid levels, and a stone. Duodenal obstruction is rarer (Bouveret’s syndrome). • Pancreatitis: See p636. • Mucocoele/empyema: Obstructed GB fi lls with mucus (secreted by GB wall)/pus. • Silent stones: Do elective surgery on those with sickle cell, immunosuppression, (debatably diabetes) as well as all calcifi ed/porcelain GBS. • Mirizzi’s syndrome: A stone in the GB presses on the bile duct causing jaundice. • Gallbladder necrosis: Rare because of dual blood supply (hepatic artery via cystic artery, and from small branches of the hepatic artery in the GB fossa). • Other: Causes of cholecystitis and biliary symptoms other than gallstones are rare. Consider infection (typhoid, cryptosporidiosis, and brucellosis); cholecystokinin release; parenteral nutrition; anatomical abnormality; polyarteritis nodosa (p556). 10 Common abbreviations used in this section: CBD, common bile duct; GB, gallbladder. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 663344 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS Complications of gallstones 635 In the gallbladder & cystic duct: In the bile ducts: • Biliary colic • Obstructive jaundice • Acute and chronic cholecystitis • Cholangitis • Mucocoele • Pancreatitis. • Empyema In the gut: • Carcinoma • Gallstone ileus. • Mirizzi’s syndrome. Table 13.16 Biliary colic, cholecystitis, or cholangitis? RUQ pain Fever / WCC Jaundice Biliary colic  X X Acute cholecystitis   X Cholangitis    Early or delayed cholecystectomy? For acute cholecystitis Laparoscopic cholecystectomy for acute cholecystitis has traditionally been performed 6–12wks after the acute episode due to antici- pated increased mortality and conversion to open procedure. Early laparoscopic cholecystectomy, within 7d of symptom onset, is now the treatment of choice. Early surgery reduces the duration of hospital admission compared with delayed surgery, but does not reduce mortality or complications. Up to one-quarter of people scheduled for delayed surgery may require urgent operations because of recurrent or worsening symptoms.10 For biliary colic Patients with biliary colic due to gallstones waiting for an elec- tive laparoscopic cholecystectomy may develop signifi cant
