Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


require urgent operations because of recurrent or worsening symptoms.10 For biliary colic Patients with biliary colic due to gallstones waiting for an elec- tive laparoscopic cholecystectomy may develop signifi cant complications, such as acute pancreatitis (p636) during the waiting period. One high-bias trial found early laparoscopic cholecystectomy (within 24h of an acute episode) decreased potential complications that may develop during the wait for elective surgery. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 663355 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 636 Acute pancreatitis This unpredictable disease (mortality ~12%) is characterized by self-perpetuating pancreatic enzyme-mediated autodigestion; oedema and fl uid shifts cause hypovol- aemia, as extracellular fl uid is trapped in the gut, peritoneum, and retroperitoneum (worsened by vomiting). Although pancreatitis is mild in 80% of cases; 20% develop severe complicated and life-threatening disease: progression may be rapid from mild oedema to necrotizing pancreatitis. ~50% of cases that advance to necrosis are fur- ther complicated by infection. Causes The one mnemonic we can all agree on: ‘GET SMASHED‘. Gallstones (~35%), Ethanol (~35%), Trauma (~1.5%), Steroids, Mumps, Autoimmune (PAN), Scorpion venom, Hyperlipidaemia, hypothermia, hypercalcaemia, ERCP (~5%) and emboli, Drugs. Also pregnancy and neoplasia or no cause found (~10–30%). Symptoms Gradual or sudden severe epigastric or central abdominal pain (radiates to back, sitting forward may relieve); vomiting prominent. Signs May be subtle in serious disease. HR, fever, jaundice, shock, ileus, rigid abdo- men ± local/general tenderness, periumbilical bruising (Cullen’s sign) or fl anks (Grey Turner’s sign) from blood vessel autodigestion and retroperitoneal haemorrhage. Tests Raised serum amylase (>1000U/mL or around 3-fold upper limit of normal). The degree of elevation is not related to severity of disease. Amylase may be normal even in severe pancreatitis (levels starts to fall within 24–48h). It is excreted renally so renal failure will  levels. Cholecystitis, mesenteric infarction, and GI perforation can cause lesser rises. Serum lipase is more sensitive and specifi c for pancreati tis (especially when related to alcohol), and rises earlier and falls later. ABG to monitor oxy genation and acid–base status. AXR: No psoas shadow (retroperitoneal fl uid), ‘sentinel loop’ of proximal jejunum from ileus (solitary air-fi lled dilatation). Erect CXR helps exclude other causes (eg perforation). CT is the standard choice of imaging to assess severity and for complications. US (if gallstones + AST). ERCP if LFTS worsen. CRP >150mg/L at 36h after admission is a predictor of severe pancreatitis. Management Severity assessment is essential (see BOX and table 13.17). • Nil by
