Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


of Surgeons of England, Moore E M, 82, 16–17, 2002. Permission conveyed through Copyright Clearance Center, Inc. These criteria have been validated for pancreatitis caused by gallstones and alcohol; Ranson’s criteria are valid for alcohol-induced pancreatitis, and can only be fully applied after 48h, which does have its disadvantages. Other criteria for assessing severity include the Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Examination (APACHE)-II, and the Bedside Index for Severity in Acute Pancreatitis (BISAP). Fig 13.45 Axial CT of the abdomen (with IV and PO contrast media) show- ing a pancreatic pseudocyst occupying the lesser sac of the abdomen pos- terior to the stomach. It is called a ‘pseudocyst’ because it is not a true cyst, rather a collection of fl uid in the lesser sac (ie not lined by epi/endothelium). It develops at ≥6wks. The cyst fl uid is of low attenuation compared with the stomach contents because it has not been enhanced by the contrast media. Image courtesy of Dr Stephen Golding. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 663377 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 638 Urinary tract calculi (nephrolithiasis) Renal stones (calculi) consist of crystal aggregates. Stones form in collecting ducts and may be deposited anywhere from the renal pelvis to the urethra, though classi- cally at: 1 Pelviureteric junction 2 Pelvic brim 3 Vesicoureteric junction. Prevalence Common: lifetime incidence up to 15%. Peak age: 20–40yr. :≈3:1. Types •Calcium oxalate (75%). •Magnesium ammonium phosphate (struvite/triple phosphate; 15%). •Also: urate (5%), hydroxyapatite (5%), brushite, cystine (1%), mixed. Presentation Asymptomatic or: 1 Pain: Excruciating spasms of renal colic ‘loin to groin’ (or genitals/inner thigh), with nausea/vomiting. Often cannot lie still (diff erenti- ates from perit onitis). Obstruction of kidney: felt in the loin,between rib 12 and lateral edge of lumbar muscles(like intercostal nerve irritation pain; the latter is not colicky, and is worsened by specifi c movements/pressure on a trigger spot). Obstruction of mid-ureter: may mimic appendicitis/diverticulitis. Obstruction of lower ureter: may lead to symptoms of bladder irritability and pain in scrotum, penile tip, or labia ma- jora. Obstruction in bladder or urethra: causes pelvic pain, dysuria, strangury (desire but inability to void) ± interrupted fl ow. 2 Infection: Can coexist (risk if voiding im- paired), eg UTI; pyelo nephritis (fever, rigors, loin pain, nausea, vomiting); pyonephrosis (infected hydronephrosis) 3 Haematuria. 4 Proteinuria. 5 Sterile pyuria. 6 Anuria. Examination Usually no tenderness on palpation. May be renal angle tenderness especially to percussion if there is retroperitoneal infl ammation.
