Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


pelvis and calyces or ureter), arrange a CT scan. This will determine the level of obstuction. NB: in ~5% of cases of obstruction, no distension is seen on US. Radionuclide imaging enables functional assessment of the kidneys. Treatment Upper tract obstruction: Nephrostomy or ureteric stent. NB: stents may cause signifi cant discomfort and patients should be warned of this and other risks (see BOX ‘Problems of ureteric stenting’). -blockers help reduce stent-related pain (ureteric spasm). Pyeloplasty, to widen the PUJ, may be performed for idiopathic PUJ obstruction. Lower tract obstruction: Insert a urethral or suprapubic catheter (p762) to relieve acute retention. In chronic obstruction only catheterize patient if there is pain, uri- nary infection, or renal impairment; intermittent self-catheterization is sometimes required (p763). If in clot retention the patient will require a 3-way catheter and bladder washout. If >1L residual check U&E and monitor for post-obstructive diure- sis (see BOX ‘Obstructive uropathy’). Monitor weight, fl uid balance, and U&E closely. Treat the underlying cause if possible, eg if prostatic obstruction, start an -blocker (see p642). After 2–3 days, trial without catheter (TWOC, p763) may work (especially if <75yrs old and <1L drained or retention was triggered by a passing event, eg GA). 12 Do venepuncture for PSA before PR, as PR can  total PSA by ~1ng/mL (free PSA  by 10%). It’s diffi cult to know if acute retention raises PSA, but relieving obstruction does cause it to drop. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 664400 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS Problems of ureteric stenting (depend on site) 641 Common: Rare: • Stent-related pain • Obstruction • Trigonal irritation • Kinking • Haematuria • Ureteric rupture • Fever • Stent misplacement • Infection • Stent migration (especially if made of silicone) • Tissue infl ammation • Tissue hyperplasia • Encrustation • Forgotton stents. • Biofi lm formation. Obstructive uropathy In chronic urinary retention, an episode of acute retention may go unnoticed for days and, because of their background symptoms, may only present when overfl ow incontinence becomes a nuisance—pain is not necessarily a feature. After diagnosing acute on chr onic retent ion and placing a catheter, the bladder residual can be as much as 1.5L of urine. Don’t be surprised to be called by the biochemistry lab to be told that the serum creatinine is 1000μmol/L! The good news is that renal fun ction usually returns to baseline after a few days (there may be mild
