Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


lab to be told that the serum creatinine is 1000μmol/L! The good news is that renal fun ction usually returns to baseline after a few days (there may be mild background impairment). Ask for an urgent renal US (fi g 13.49) Fig 13.49 Ultrasound of an obstr ucted kidney and con sider the following in the show ing hydro nephrosis. Note dilatation of renal acute plan to ensure a safe course: pelvis and ureter, and clubbed calyces. • Hyperkalaemia See p301. Image courtesy of Norwich Radiology Department. • Metabolic acidosis On ABG there is likely to be a respiratory compensated metabolic acidosis. Concerns should prompt discussion with a renal specialist (a good idea anyway), in case haemo- dialysis is required (p306). • Post-obstructive diuresis In the acute phase after relief of the obstruction, the kidneys produce a lot of urine—as much as a litre in the fi rst hour. It is vital to provide resuscitation fl uids and then match input with output. Fluid depletion rather than overload is the danger here. • Sodium- and bicarbonate–losing nephropathy As the kidney undergoes diu- resis, Na+ and bicarbonate are lost in the urine in large quantities. Replace ‘in for out’ (as mentioned above) with isotonic 1 . 26% sodium bicarbonate solution—this should be available from ITU. Some advocate using 0.9% saline, though the chlo- ride load may exacerbate acidosis. Withhold any nephrotoxic drugs. • Infection Treat infection, bearing in mind that the WCC and CRP may be part of the stress response. Send a sample of urine for MC&S. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 664411 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 642 Benign prostatic hyperplasia Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) is common (24% if aged 40–64; 40% if older). Pathology: Benign nodular or diff use proliferation of musculofi brous and glandular layers of the prostate. Inner (transitional) zone enlarges in contrast to peripheral lay- er expansion seen in prostate carcinoma. Features: Lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) = nocturia, frequency, urgency, post-micturition dribbling, poor stream/fl ow, hesitancy, overfl ow incontinence, haematuria, bladder stones, UTI. Management: Assess severity of symptoms and impact on life. PR exam. Tests: MSU; U&E; ultrasound (large residual volume, hydronephrosis—fi g 13.49), PSA (prior to PR exam; see also BOX ‘Advice to asymptomatic men’, p645), transrectal US ± biopsy. Then consider: • Lifestyle: Avoid caff eine, alcohol (to urgency/nocturia). Relax when voiding. Void twice in a row to aid emptying. Control urgency by pract ising distraction methods (eg
