Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


that compares favourably with surgery (no RCTS). It may be delivered as external beam or brachytherapy. •Hormone therapy alone temporar- ily delays tumour progression but refractory disease eventually develops. Consider in elderly, unfi t patients with high-risk disease. •Active surveillance—particularly if >70yrs and low-risk. Metastatic disease: •Hormonal drugs may give benefi t for 1–2yrs. LHRH agonists, eg 12-weekly goserelin (10.8mg SC) fi rst stimulate, then inhibit pituitary gonadotrophin. NB: risks tumour ‘fl are’ when fi rst used—start anti-androgen, eg cypro- terone acetate, in susceptible patients. The LHRH antagonist degarelix is also used in advanced disease. Symptomatic : Analgesia; treat hypercalca emia; radiotherapy for bone mets/spinal cord compression. Prognosis: 10% die in 6 months, 10% live >10yrs. Screening: DRE of prostate; transrectal US; PSA (see BOX ‘Advice to asymptomatic men’). Penile cancer Epidemiology: Rare in UK, more common in Far East and Africa, very rare in circumcised. Related to chronic irritation, viruses, smegma. Presentation: Chronic fungating ulcer, bloody/purulent discharge, 50% spread to lymph at presentation : Radiotherapy & irridium wires if early; amputation & lymph node dissection if late. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 664444 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS Advice to asymptomatic men asking for a PSA blood test 645 • Many men over 50 consider a PSA test to detect prostatic cancer. Is this wise? • The test is not very accurate, and we cannot say that those having the test will live longer—even if they turn out to have prostate cancer. Most men with pros- tate cancer die from an unrelated cause. • If the test is falsely positive, you may needlessly have more tests, eg prostate sampling via the back passage (causes bleeding and infection in 1–5% of men). • Only one in three of those with a high PSA level will have cancer. • You may be worried needlessly if later tests put you in the clear. • If a cancer is found, there’s no way to tell for sure if it will impinge on health. You might end up having a bad eff ect from treatment that wasn’t needed. • There is much uncertainty on treating those who do turn out to have prostate cancer: options are radical surgery to remove the prostate (risks erectile dys- function and incontinence), radiotherapy, or hormones. • Screening via PSA has shown confl icting results. Some RCTS have shown no dif- ference in the rate of death from prostate cancer, others have found reduced mortality,
