Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


hormones. • Screening via PSA has shown confl icting results. Some RCTS have shown no dif- ference in the rate of death from prostate cancer, others have found reduced mortality, eg 1 death prevented per 1055 men invited for screening (if 37 cancers detected). Ultimately, you must decide for yourself what you want. Prognostic factors in prostate cancer A number of prognostic factors help determine if ‘watchful waiting’ or agg ressive therapy should be advised: •Pre-treatment PSA level. •Tumour stage (as measured by the TNM system; p523). •Tumour grade—Gleason score. Gleason grading is from 1 to 5, with 5 being the highest grade, and carrying the poorest prognosis. Gleason grades are decided by analysing histology from two separate areas of tumour specimen, and adding them to get the total Gleason score for the tumour, from 2 to 10. Scores 8–10 suggest an aggressive tumour; 5–7: intermediate; 2–4: indolent. Benign diseases of the penis Balanitis Acute infl ammation of the foreskin and glans. Associated with strep and staph infections. More common in diabetics. Often seen in young children with tight foreskins : Antibiotics, circumcision, hygiene advice. Phimosis The foreskin occludes the meatus. In young boys this causes recurrent balanitis and ballooning, but time (+ trials of gentle retraction) may obviate the need for circumcision. In adulthood presents with painful intercourse, infection, ulceration, and is associated with balanitis xerotica obliterans. Paraphimosis Occurs when a tight foreskin is retracted and becomes irreplace- able, preventing venous return leading to oedema and even ischaemia of the glans. Can occur if the foreskin is not replaced after catheterization. : Ask patient to squeeze glans. Try applying a 50% glucose-soaked swab (oedema may follow osmotic gradient). Ice packs and lidocaine gel may also help. May require aspira- tion/dorsal slit/circumcision. Prostatitis May be acute or chronic. Usually those >35yrs. Acute prostatitis is caused mostly by S. faecalis and E. coli, also Chlamydia (and previously TB). Features: UTIs, reten- tion, pain, haematospermia, swollen/boggy prostate on DRE. : Analgesia; levofl oxa- cin 500mg/24h PO for 28d. Chronic prostatitis may be bacterial or non-bacterial. Symptoms as for acute prostatitis, but present for >3 months. Non-bacterial chronic prostatitis does not respond to antibiotics. Anti-infl ammatory drugs, –blockers, and prostatic massage all have a place. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 664455 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 646 Bladder tumours >90% are transitional cell carcinomas (TCCS) in the UK. Adenocarcin omas and squa- mous cell carcinomas are rare in the
