Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


a place. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 664455 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 646 Bladder tumours >90% are transitional cell carcinomas (TCCS) in the UK. Adenocarcin omas and squa- mous cell carcinomas are rare in the West (the latter may follow schistosomiasis). UK incidence ≈ 1:6000/yr. :≈5:2. Histology is important for prognosis: Grade 1— diff erentiated; Grade 2—intermediate; Grade 3—poorly diff ere ntiated. 80% are con- fi ned to bladder mucosa, and only ~20% penetrate muscle (increasing mortality to 50% at 5yrs). Presentation Painless haematuria; recurrent UTIs; voiding irritability. Associations Smoking; aromatic amines (rubber industry); chronic cystitis; schisto- somiasis (risk of squamous cell carcinoma); pelvic irradiation. Tests • Cystoscopy with biopsy is diagnostic. • Urine: microscopy/cytology (cancers may cause sterile pyuria). • CT urogram is both diagnostic and provides staging. • Bimanual EUA helps assess spread. • MRI or lymphangiography may show involved pelvic nodes. Staging See table 13.19. Treating TCC of the bladder • Tis/Ta/T1: (80% of all patients) Diathermy via transurethral cystoscopy/trans- urethral resection of bladder tumour (TURBT). Consider a regimen of intravesical BCG (which stimulates a non-specifi c immune response) for multiple small tumours or high-grade tumours. Alternative chemotherapeutic agents include mitomycin, epirubicin and gemcitabine. 5yr survival ≈ 95%. • T2–3: Radical cystectomy is the ‘gold standard’. Radiotherapy gives worse 5yr survival rates than surgery, but preserves the bladder. ‘Salvage’ cystectomy can be performed if radiotherapy fails, but yields worse results than primary sur- gery. Post-op chemotherapy (eg M-VAC: methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin, and cisplatin) is toxic but eff ective. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy with M-VAC or GC (gemcitabine and cisplatin) has improved survival compared to cystectomy or ra- diotherapy alone. Methods to preserve the bladder with transurethral resection or partial cyst ectomy + systemic chemot herapy have been tried, but long-term results are disappointing. If the bladder neck is not involved, orthotopic reconstru ction rather than forming a urostoma is an option (both using ~40cm of the patient’s ileum), but adequate tumour clearance must not be compromised. The patient should have all these options explained by a urologist and an oncologist. • T4: Usually palliative chemo/radiotherapy. Chronic catheterization and urinary di- versions may help to relieve pain. Follow-up History, examination, and regular cystoscopy: •High-risk tumours: Every 3 months for 2yrs, then every 6 months. •Low-risk tumours: First follow-up cystos- copy after 9 months, then yearly. Tumour spread Local  to pelvic structures; lymphatic  to iliac and para-aortic nodes; haematogenous  to liver and lungs.
