Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


tumours: First follow-up cystos- copy after 9 months, then yearly. Tumour spread Local  to pelvic structures; lymphatic  to iliac and para-aortic nodes; haematogenous  to liver and lungs. Survival This depends on age at surgery. For example, the 3yr survival after cystec- tomy for T2 and T3 tumours is 60% if 65–75yrs old, falling to 40% if 75–82yrs old (op- erative mortality is 4%). With unilateral pelvic node involvement, only 6% of patients survive 5yrs. The 3yr survival with bilateral or para-aortic node involvement is nil. Complications Cystectomy can result in sexual and urinary malfunction. Massive bladder haemorrhage may complicate treatment or be a feature of disease treated palliatively. Determining the cause of bleeding is key. Consider alum solution blad- der irrigation (if no renal failure) as 1st-line treatment for intractable haematuria in advanced malignancy: it is an inpatient procedure. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 664466 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS Table 13.19 TNM staging of bladder cancer (See also p523) 647 Tis Carcinoma in situ Ta Tumour confi ned to epithelium T1 Tumour in submucosa or lamina propria T2 Invades muscle T3 Extends into perivesical fat T4 Invades adjacent organs N0 No LN involved N1–N3 Progressive LN involvement M0 No metastases M1 Distant metastasis Reproduced with permission from Edge, SB et al. (Eds.), AJCC Cancer Staging Manual, 7th Edition. New York: Springer; 2010. Is asymptomatic non-visible haematuria signifi cant? Dipstick tests are often done routinely for patients on admission. If non-visible (previously microscopic) haematuria is found, but the patient has no related symptoms, what does this mean? Before rushing into a barrage of investigations, consider: • One study found that incidence of urogenital disease (eg bladder cancer) was no higher in those with asymptomatic microhaematuria than in those without. • Asymptomatic non-visible haematuria is the sole presenting feature in only 4% of bladder cancers, and there is no evidence that these are less advanced than malignancies presenting with macroscopic haematuria. • When monitoring those with treated bladder cancer for recurrence, non-visible- haematuria tests have a sensitivity of only 31% in those with superfi cial bladder malignancy, in whom detection would be most useful. • Although 80% of those with fl ank pain due to a renal stone have microscopic haematuria, so do 50% of those with fl ank pain but no stone. The conclusion is not that urine dipstick testing is useless, but that results should not be interpreted in isolation. Unexplained non-visible
