Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


of those with fl ank pain but no stone. The conclusion is not that urine dipstick testing is useless, but that results should not be interpreted in isolation. Unexplained non-visible haematuria in those >50yrs should be referred under the 2-week rule. Smokers and those with +ve family history for urothelial cancer may also be investigated diff erently from those with no risk factors. It is worth considering, that in a young, fi t athlete, the diagnosis is more likely to be exercise-induced haematuria. Wise doctors work collaboratively with their patients. ‘Shall we let sleeping dogs lie?’ is a reasonable question for some patients. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 664477 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 648 Urinary incontinence Think twice before inserting a urinary catheter. Carry out rectal examination to exclude faecal impaction. Is the bladder palpable after voiding (retention with overfl ow)? Is there neurological comorbidity: eg MS; Parkinson’s disease; stroke; spinal trauma? Incontinence in men Enlargement of the prostate is the major cause of inconti- nence: urge incontinence (see later in topic) or dribbling may result from partial retention of urine. TURP (p642) & other pelvic surgery may weaken the bladder sphinc- ter and cause incontinence. Troublesome incontinence needs specialist assessment. Incontinence in women Often under-reported with delays before seeking help. • Functional incontinence: Ie when physiological factors are relatively unimportant. The patient is ‘caught short’ and too slow in fi nding the toilet because of (for exam- ple) immobility, or unfamiliar surroundings. • Stress incontinence: Leakage from an incompetent sphincter, eg when intra- abdominal pressure rises (eg coughing, laughing). Increasing age and obesity are risk factors. The key to diagnosis is the loss of small (but often frequent) amounts of urine when coughing etc. Examine for pelvic fl oor weakness/prolapse/pelvic masses. Look for cough leak on standing and with full bladder. Stress incontinence is common in pregnancy and following birth. It occurs to some degree in ~50% of post-menopausal women. In elderly women, pelvic fl oor weakness, eg with uterine prolapse or urethrocele (OHCS p290), is a very common association. • Urge incontinence/overactive bladder syndrome:The urge to urinate is quickly followed by uncon t rollable and sometimes complete emptying of the bladder as the detrusor muscle contracts. Urgency/leaking is precipitated by: arriving home (latchkey incontinence, a conditioned refl ex); cold; the sound of running water; caf- feine; and obesity.  : urodynamic studies. Cause: detrusor overactivity (see table 13.20), eg from central inhibitory pathway
