Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


precipitation. Up to 4mg/12h may be and if glaucoma or UC are uncontrolled. needed (unlicensed). Topical oestrogens Post-menopausal urgency, frequency + noc- turia may occasionally be improved by raising the bladder’s sensory threshold. Systemic therapy worsens incontinence. 3 adrenergic agonist: mirabegron Consider if antimuscarinics are contrain- 50mg/24h; SE tachycardia; CI: severe HTN; dicated or clinically ineff ective, or if SE Caution if renal/hepatic impairment. unacceptable. Intravesical botulinum toxin (Botox®) Consider if above medications ineff ective. Percutaneous posterior tibial nerve Consider if drug treatment ineff ective and stimulation (PTNS). (A typical treatment Botox® not wanted. PTNS delivers neuromodu- consists of ≈12 weekly 30 min sessions.) lation to the S2–S4 junction of the sacral nerve plexus. Neuromodulation via transcutaneous Sacral nerve stimulation inhibits the refl ex electrical stimulation behaviour of involuntary detrusor contractions. Modulation of aff erent input from Gabapentin (unlicensed). bladder Hypnosis, psychotherapy, bladder (These all require good motivation.) training* Surgery (eg clam ileocystoplasty) Reserved for troublesome or intractable symptoms. The bladder is bisected, opened like a clam, and 25cm of ileum is sewn in. NB: desmopressin nasal spray 20mcg nocte reduces urine production and  nocturia in overactive bladder. Unsuitable if elderly (SE: fl uid retention, heart failure, Na+). *Mind over bladder: •Void when you DON’T have urge; DON’T go to the bathroom when you do have urge. •Gradually extend the time between voiding. •Schedule your trips to toilet. •Stretch your bladder to normal capacity. • When urge comes, calm down and make it go using mind over bladder tricks. Not all male urinary symptoms are prostate-related! Detrusor overactivity Men get this as well as women. Pressure-fl ow studies help diagnose this (as does detrusor thickness ≥2.9mm on US). Primary bladder neck obstruction A condition in which the bladder neck does not open properly during voiding. Studies in men and women with void- ing dysfunction show that it is common. The cause may be muscular or neuro- logical dysfunction or fi brosis. Diagnosis: Video-urodynamics, with simultaneous pressure-fl ow measurement, and visualization of the bladder neck during voiding. Treatment: Watchful waiting; -blockers (p642); surgery. Urethral stricture This may follow trauma or infection (eg gonorrhoea)—and frequently leads to voiding symptoms, UTI, or retention. Malignancy is a rare cause. Imaging: Retrograde urethrogram or antegrade cystourethrogram if the patient has an existing suprapubic catheter. Internal urethrotomy involves incising the stricture transurethrally using endoscopic equipment—to release scar tissue. Stents incorporate themselves into the wall of
