Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


antegrade cystourethrogram if the patient has an existing suprapubic catheter. Internal urethrotomy involves incising the stricture transurethrally using endoscopic equipment—to release scar tissue. Stents incorporate themselves into the wall of the urethra and keep the lumen open. They work best for short strictures in the bulbar urethra (anterior urethral anatomy, from proximal to distal: prostatic urethraposterior or membranous urethrabulbar urethrapenile or pendulous urethrafossa navicularismeatus). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 664499 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 650 Lumps in the groin and scrotum Testicular lump = cancer until proved otherwise. Acute, tender enlargement of testis = torsion (p652) until proved otherwise. Diagnosing scrotal masses (fi g 13.51) 1 Can you get above it? 2 Is it separate from the testis? 3 Cystic or solid? • Cannot get above: inguinoscrotal hernia (p614) or hydrocele extending proximally. • Separate and cystic: epididymal cyst. • Separate and solid: epididymitis/varicocele. • Testicular and cystic: hydrocele. Testicular and solid—tumour, haem atocele, granuloma (p196), orchitis, gumma (p412). US may help. Epididymal cysts Usually develop in adulthood and contain clear or milky (sperm- atocele) fl uid. They lie above and behind the testis. Remove if symptomatic. Hydroceles (Fluid within the tunica vaginalis.) Primary (associated with a patent processus vaginalis, which typically resolves during the 1st year of life) or seconda ry to testis tumour/trauma/infection. Primary hydro celes are more common, larger, and usually in younger men. Can resolve spontaneously. : Aspira tion (may need repeating) or surgery: plicating the tunica vaginalis (Lord’s repair)/inverting the sac (Jaboulay’s repair). Is the testis normal after aspiration? If any doubt, do US. Epididymo-orchitis Causes:Chlamydia(eg if<35yrs);E. coli; mumps;N. gonorrh- oeae; TB. Features: Sudden-onset tender swelling, dysuria, sweats/fever. Take ‘1st catch’ urine sample; look for urethral discharge. Consider STI screen. Warn of possi- ble infertility and symptoms worsening before improving. : If <35yrs; doxycycline 100mg/12h (covers chlamydia;treat sexual partn ers). If gonorrhoea suspected add ceftriaxone 500mg IM stat. If >35yrs (mostly non-STI), associated UTI is common so try ciprofl oxacin 500mg/12h or ofl oxacin 200mg/12h. Antibiotics should be used for 2–4wks. Also: analgesia, scrotal support, drainage of any abscess. Varicocele Dilated veins of pampiniform plexus. Left side more commonly aff ect- ed. Often visible as distended scrotal blood vessels that feel like ‘a bag of worms’. Patient may complain of dull ache. Associated with subfertility, but repair (via sur- gery or embolization) seems to have little eff ect on subsequent pregnancy rates. Haematocele Blood in tunica vaginalis, follows trauma, may
