Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


fully manifest, as prompt surgery saves testes. If surgery is performed in <6h the salvage rate is 90–100%; if >24h it is 0–10%. If in any doubt, surgery is required. If suspected refer immediately to urology. Symptoms: Sudden onset of pain in one testis, which makes walking uncomfortable. Pain in the abdomen, nausea, and vomiting are common. Signs: Infl ammation of one testis—it is very tender, hot, and swollen. The testis may lie high and transversely. Torsion may occur at any age but is most common at 11–30yrs. With intermittent torsion the pain may have passed on presentation, but if it was severe, and the lie is horizontal, prophylactic fi xing may be wise.  : The main one is epididymo-orchitis (p650) but with this the patient tends to be older, there may be symptoms of urinary infection, and more gradual onset of pain. Also consider tumour, trauma, and an acute hydrocele. NB: torsion of testicular or epididymal appendage (the hydatid of Morgagni—a remnant of the Müllerian duct)—usually occurs between 7–12yrs, and causes less pain. Its tiny blue nodule may be discernible under the scrotum. It is thought to be due to the surge in gonado- trophins which signal the onset of puberty. Idiopathic scrotal oedema is a benign condition usually between ages 2 and 10yrs, and is diff erentiated from torsion by the absence of pain and tenderness. Tests: Doppler US may demonstrate lack of blood fl ow to testis. Only perform if diagnosis equivocal—do not delay surgical exploration. Treatment: Ask consent for possible orchidectomy + bilateral fi xation (orchi- dopexy)—see p568. At surgery expose and untwist the testis. If its colour looks good, return it to the scrotum and fi x both testes to the scrotum. Undescended testes Incidence About 3% of boys are born with at least one undescended testis (30% of premature boys) but this drops to 1% after the fi rst year of life. Unilateral is four times more common than bilateral. (If bilateral then should have genetic testing.) • Cryptorchidism: Complete absence of the testis from the scrotum (anorchism is absence of both testes). • Retractile testis: The genitalia are normally developed but there is an excessive cremasteric refl ex. The testis is often found at the external inguinal ring. : reassur- ance (examining while in a warm bath, for example, may help to distinguish from maldescended/ectopic testes). • Maldescended testis: May be found
