Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


aortic aneurysm (AAA) Death rates/year from ruptured AAAS rise with age: 125 per million in those aged 55–59; 2728 per million if over 85yrs. Symptoms & signs: Intermittent or continuous abdominal pain (radiates to back, iliac fossae, or groins; don’t dismiss this as renal colic), collapse, an expansile abdominal mass (it expands and contracts, unlike swellings that are purely pulsatile, eg nodes overlying arteries), and shock. If in doubt, assume a ruptured aneurysm. Unruptured AAA Defi nition: >3cm across. Prevalence: 3% of those >50yrs.  :  >3 : 1. Less common in diabetics. Cause: Degeneration of elastic lamellae and smooth muscle loss. There is a genetic component. Symptoms: Often none, they may cause abdominal/back pain, often discovered incidentally on abdominal examination (see BOX). Monitoring: RCTS have failed to demonstrate benefi t from early endovascular repair (EVAR, see later in paragraph) of aneurysms <5.5cm (where rupture rates are low). Risk of rupture below this size is <1%/yr, compared to ~25%/yr for aneurysms >6cm across. ~75% of aneurysms under monitoring will eventually need repair. Rup- ture is more likely if: •BP •Smoker • •Positive family history. Modify risk factors if possible at diagnosis. Elective surgery: Reserve for aneurysms ≥5.5cm or expanding at >1cm/yr, or symptomatic aneurysms. Operative mortality: ~5%; complications in- clude spinal or visceral ischaemia and distal emboli from dislodged thrombus debris. Studies show that age >80yrs should not, in itself, preclude surgery. Stenting (EVAR): Major surgery can be avoided by inserting an endovascular stent via the femoral artery. EVAR has less early mortality but higher graft complications, eg failure of stent-graft to totally exclude blood fl ow to the aneurysm—‘endoleak’. See fi g 13.52. Emergency management of a ruptured abdominal aneurysm Mortality—treated: 41% and improving; untreated: ~100%.  Summon a vascular surgeon and an experienced anaesthetist; warn theatre.  Do an ECG, and take blood for amylase, Hb, crossmatch (10–40U may eventually be needed). Catheterize the bladder.  Gain IV access with 2 large-bore cannulae. Treat shock with O RhΩve blood (if not cross matched), but keep systolic BP ≤100mmHg to avoid rupturing a contained leak (NB: raised BP is common early on).  Take the patient straight to theatre. Don’t waste time on X-rays: fatal delay may result, though CT can help in a stable patient with an uncertain diagnosis.  Give prophylactic antibiotics, eg co-amoxiclav 625mg IV.  Surgery involves clamping the aorta above the leak, and
