Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


cerebral or coronary artery disease. Cardiovascular risk factors should be identifi ed and treated aggressively. The chief feature of PAD is intermittent claudication (= to limp). Prevalence = 10%. Symptoms Cramping pain in the calf, thigh, or buttock after walking for a given distance (the claudication distance) and relieved by rest (calf claudication suggests femoral disease while buttock claudication suggests iliac disease). Ulceration, gan- grene (p660), and foot pain at rest—eg burning pain at night relieved by hanging legs over side of bed—are the cardinal features of critical ischaemia. Buttock claudica- tion ± impotence imply Leriche’s syndrome (p704). Young, heavy smokers are at risk from Buerger’s disease (thromboangiitis obliterans, p696). Fontaine classifi cation for PAD: 1 Asymptomatic. 2 Intermittent claudication. 3 Is- chaemic rest pain. 4 Ulceration/gangrene (critical ischaemia). Signs Absent femoral, popliteal, or foot pulses; cold, white leg(s); atrophic skin; punched out ulcers (often painful); postural/dependent colour change; Buerger’s an- gle (angle that leg goes pale when raised off the couch) of <20° and capillary fi lling time >15s are found in severe ischaemia. Tests Exclude DM, arteritis (ESR/CRP). FBC (anaemia, polycythaemia); U&E (renal dis- ease); lipids (dyslipidaemia); ECG (cardiac ischaemia). Do thrombophilia screen and serum homocysteine if <50 years. Ankle–brachial pressure index (ABPI): Normal = 1–1.2; PAD = 0.5–0.9; critical limb ischaemia <0.5 or ankle systolic pressure <50mmHg. Beware falsely high results from incompressible calcifi ed vessels in severe athero- sclerosis, eg DM. Imaging Colour duplex US 1st line. If considering intervention MR/CT angiography (fi g 13.54) for extent and location of stenoses and quality of distal vessels (‘run-off ’).  1 Risk factor modifi cation: Quit smoking (vital). Treat hypertension and high choles- terol. Prescribe an antiplatelet agent (unless contraindicated), to prevent progression and to reduce cardiovascular risk. Clopidogrel is recommended as 1st-line. 2 Management of claudication: •Supervised exercise programmes reduce symp- toms by improving collateral blood fl ow (2h per wk for 3 months). Encourage patients to excercise to the point of maximal pain. •Vasoactive drugs, eg naftidrofuryl oxa- late, off er modest benefi t and are recommended only in those who do not wish to undergo revascularization and if exercise fails to improve symptoms. If conservative measures have failed and PAD is severely aff ecting a patient’s life- style or becoming limb-threatening, intervention is required. • Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) is used for disease limited to a sin- gle arterial segment (a balloon is infl
