Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


a patient’s life- style or becoming limb-threatening, intervention is required. • Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) is used for disease limited to a sin- gle arterial segment (a balloon is infl ated in the narrowed segment). 5-year paten- cy is 79% (iliac) and 55% (femoral). Stents can be used to maintain artery patency. • Surgical reconstruction: If atheromatous disease is extensive but distal run-off is good (ie distal arteries fi lled by collateral vessels), consider arterial reconstruction with a bypass graft (fi g 13.54). Procedures include femoral–popliteal bypass, femo- ral–femoral crossover, and aorto–bifemoral bypass grafts. Autologous vein grafts are superior to prosthetic grafts (eg Dacron® or PTFE) when the knee joint is crossed. • Amputation <3% of patients with intermittent claudication require major am- putation within 5 years ( in diabetes, p212). Amputation may relieve intractable pain and death from sepsis and gangrene. A decision to amputate must be made by the patient, usually against a background of failed alternative strategies. The knee should be preserved where possible as it improves mobility and rehabilitation potential (this must be balanced with the need to ensure wound healing). Rehabili- tation should be started early with a view to limb fi tting. Gabapentin (regimen on p504) can be used to treat the gruelling complication of phantom limb pain. • Future therapies: Early-phase clinical trials have demonstrated the safety and benefi t of gene therapy (eg hepatocyte growth factor) in critical limb ischaemia. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 665566 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS (a) (b) 657 Fig 13.53 Leg arteries. Fig 13.54 CT an gi ogram showing (a) normal lower limb vasculature and (b) heavily diseased arteries with previ- ous left femoral anterior tibial bypass. Reproduced from ‘Diagnosis and management of peripheral arterial disease’, BMJ, Peach et al., 345:e5208, 2012, with permis- sion from BMJ Publishing Group Ltd. Acute limb ischaemia Surgical emergency requiring revascularization within 4–6h to save the limb. May be due to thrombosis in situ (~40%), emboli (38%), graft/angioplasty occlu- sion (15%), or trauma. Thrombosis more likely in known ‘vasculopaths’; emboli are sudden, eg in those without previous vessel disease; they can aff ect multiple sites, and there may be a bruit. Mortality: 22%. Amputation rate: 16%. • Symptoms and signs: The 6 ‘P’S of acute ischaemia: pale, pulseless, painful, paralysed, paraesthetic, and ‘perishingly cold’. Onset of fi xed mottling implies irreversibility. Emboli commonly arise from the heart (AF; mural thrombus) or aneurysms. In patients with known
