Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


pale, pulseless, painful, paralysed, paraesthetic, and ‘perishingly cold’. Onset of fi xed mottling implies irreversibility. Emboli commonly arise from the heart (AF; mural thrombus) or aneurysms. In patients with known PAD, sudden deterioration of symptoms with deep duskiness of the limb may indicate acute arterial occlusion. This ap- pearance is due to extensive pre–existing collaterals and must not be misdiag- nosed as gout/cellulitis. • Management: This is an emergency and may require urgent open surgery or angioplasty. If diagnosis is in doubt, do urgent arteriography. If the occlusion is embolic, the options are surgical embolectomy (Fogarty catheter) or local thrombolysis, eg tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA, p345), balancing the risks of surgery with the haemorrhagic complications of thrombolysis. • Anticoagulate with heparin after either procedure and look for the source of emboli. Be aware of possible post-op reperfusion injury and subsequent com- partment syndrome. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 665577 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 658 Varicose veins (VVS) Long, tortuous, & dilated veins of the superfi cial venous system (see fi g 13.55). Pathology Blood from superfi cial veins of the leg passes into deep veins via perfora- tor veins (perforate deep fascia) and at the saphenofemoral and saphenopopliteal junctions. Valves prevent blood from passing from deep to superfi cial veins. If they become incompetent there is venous hypertension and dilata tion of the superfi cial veins occurs. Risk factors: Prolonged standing, obesity, pregnancy, family history, and contraceptive pill. Causes: Primary mechanical factors (in ~95%); secondary to obstruction (eg DVT, fetus, pelvic tumour), arteriovenous malformations, overactive muscle pumps (eg cyclists); rarely congenital valve absence. Symptoms ‘My legs are ugly.’ Pain, cramps, tingling, heaviness, and restless legs. But studies show these symptoms are only slightly commoner in those with VVS. Signs Oedema; eczema; ulcers; haemosiderin; haemorrhage; phlebitis; atrophie blanche (white scarring at the site of a previous, healed ulcer); lipodermatosclerosis (skin hardness from subcutaneous fi brosis caused by chronic infl ammation and fat necrosis). On their own VVS don’t cause DVTS (except possibly proximally spreading thrombophlebitis of the long saphe nous vein). Examination See p78. Treatment NICE guidelines11 suggest that the criteria for specialist referral of pa- tients with VVS should be: bleeding, pain, ulceration, superfi cial thrombophlebitis, or ‘a severe impact on quality of life’ (ie not for cosmetic reasons alone). • Treat any underlying cause. • Education—avoid prolonged standing and elevate leg(s) whenever possible; sup- port stockings (compliance is a problem); lose weight; regular walks
