Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


not for cosmetic reasons alone). • Treat any underlying cause. • Education—avoid prolonged standing and elevate leg(s) whenever possible; sup- port stockings (compliance is a problem); lose weight; regular walks (calf muscle action aids venous return). • Endovascular treatment (less pain and earlier return to activity than surgery.) • Radiofrequency ablation (VNUS Closure®)—a catheter is inserted into the vein and heated to 120°C destroying the endothelium and ‘closing’ the vein. Results are as good as conventional surgery at 3 months. • Endovenous laser ablation (EVLA) is similar but uses a laser. Outcomes are similar to surgical repair after 2yrs (in terms of quality of life and recurrence). • Injection sclerotherapy—either liquid or foam can be used. Liquid sclerosant is indicated for varicosities below the knee if there is no gross saphenofemoral incompetence. It is injected at multiple sites and the vein compressed for a few weeks to avoid thrombosis (intravascular granulation tissue obliterates the lumen). Alternatively foam sclerosant is injected under ultrasound guid- ance at a single site and spreads rapidly throughout the veins, damaging the endothelium. Ultrasound monitoring prevents inadvertent spread of foam into the femoral vein. It achieves ~80% complete occlusion but is not more eff ective than liquid sclerotherapy or surgery. • Surgery—there are several choices, depending on vein anatomy and surgical preference, eg saphenofemoral ligation (Trendelenburg procedure); multi- ple avulsions; stripping from groin to upper calf (stripping to the ankle is not needed, and may damage the saphenous nerve). Post-op: bandage legs tightly and elevate for 24h. Surgery is more eff ective than sclerotherapy in the long term. Before surgery and after venous mapping, ensure that all varicosities are indelibly marked to either side (to avoid tattooing if the incision is made through inked skin). Saphena varix Dilatation in the saphenous vein at its confl uence with the femoral vein (the SFJ). It transmits a cough impulse and may be mistaken for an inguinal or femoral hernia, but on closer inspection it may have a bluish tinge. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 665588 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 659 Fig 13.55 The superfi cial veins of the leg. When do varicose veins become an illness? Perhaps when they hurt? Or is this too simple? ‘Certain illnesses are desirable: they provide a compensation for a functional disorder...’ (Albert Camus); this is known to be common with VVS. Perhaps many opt for surgery as a displacement activity to confronting deeper problems. We adopt the
