Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


for a functional disorder...’ (Albert Camus); this is known to be common with VVS. Perhaps many opt for surgery as a displacement activity to confronting deeper problems. We adopt the sickness role when we want sympathy. Somatization is hard to manage; here is one approach to consider: • Give time; don’t dismiss these patients as ‘just the “worried well”’. • Explore factors perpetuating illness behaviour (misinformation, social stressors). • Agree a plan that makes sense to the patient’s holistic view of themself. • Treat any underlying depression (drugs and cognitive therapy, OHCS p344). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 665599 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 660 Gangrene and necrotizing fasciitis Defi nitions Gangrene is death of tissue from poor vascular supply and is a sign of critical ischaemia (see p656). Tissues are black and may slough. Dry gangrene is necrosis in the absence of infection. Note a line of demarcation between living and dead tissue.14 : restoration of blood supply ± amputation. Wet gangrene is tissue death and infection (associated with discharge) occurring together (p213, fi g 5.10). : analgesia; broad-spectrum IV antibiotics; surgical debridement ± amputation. Gas gangrene is a subset of necrotizing myositis caused by spore-forming clostridial species. There is rapid onset of myonecrosis, muscle swelling, gas production, sepsis, and severe pain. Risk factors include diabetes, trauma, and malignancy. : remove all dead tissue (eg amputation). Give benzylpenicillin ± clindamycin. Hyperbaric O2 can improve survival and  the number of debridements. Necrotizing fasciitis is a rapidly progressive infection of the deep fascia causing necrosis of subcutaneous tissue. Prompt recognition (diffi cult in the early stages) and aggressive treatment is required. In any atypical cellulitis, get early surgical help. There is intense pain over aff ected skin and underlying muscle. Group A -haemolytic streptococci is a major cause, although infection is often polymicrobial. Fournier’s gan- grene is necrotizing fasciitis localized to the scrotum and perineum. : Radical debride- ment ± amputation; IV antibiotics, eg benzylpenicillin and clindamycin. Skin ulcers Ulcers are abnormal breaks in an epithelial surface. Leg ulcers aff ect ~2% in devel- oped countries. Causes May be multiple. For leg ulcers, venous disease accounts for 70%, mixed arterial and venous disease for 15%, and arterial disease alone for 2%. Other contrib- utory factors include neuropathy (eg in DM), lymphoedema, vasculitis, malignancy (p596), infection (eg TB, syphilis), trauma (eg pressure sores: see fi g 10.16, p473), pyo- derma gangrenosum, drugs (eg nicorandil, hydroxyurea). History Ask
