Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


neuropathy (eg in DM), lymphoedema, vasculitis, malignancy (p596), infection (eg TB, syphilis), trauma (eg pressure sores: see fi g 10.16, p473), pyo- derma gangrenosum, drugs (eg nicorandil, hydroxyurea). History Ask about number, pain, trauma. Explore comorbidities—eg VVS, peripheral arterial disease, diabetes, vasculitis. Length of history? Is the patient taking steroids? Are self-induced ulcers, dermatitis artefacta, a possibility? Has a biopsy been taken? Examination Note features such as site, number, surface area, depth, edge, base, dis- charge, lymphadeno pathy, sensation, and healing (see BOX). If in the legs, note features of venous insuffi ciency or arterial disease and, if possible, apply a BP cuff to perform ankle–brachial pressure index (ABPI). Tests Skin and ulcer biopsy may be necessary—eg to assess for vasculitis (will need immunohistopathology) or malignant change in an established ulcer (Mar- jolin’s ulcer = SCC presenting in chronic wound). If ulceration is the fi rst sign of a suspected systemic disorder then further screening tests will be required. Management Managing ulcers is often diffi cult and expensive. Treat the cause(s) and focus on prevention. Optimize nutrition. Are there adverse risk factors (drug addiction, or risk factors for arteriopathy, eg smoking)? Get expert nursing care. Consider referral to specialist community nurse or leg ulcer/tissue viability clinic: • ‘Charing-Cross’ 4-layer compression bandaging is better than standard bandages (use only if arterial pulses OK: ABPI (p656) should be >0.8). Honey dressings can improve healing in mild–moderate burns, but as an adjuvant to compression bandaging for leg ulcers they do not signifi cantly improve healing rate. Negative pressure wound therapy (eg VAC®) helps heal diabetic ulcers. • Surgery, larval therapy, and hydrogels are used to debride sloughy necrotic tis- sue (avoid hydrogels in diabetic ulcers due to risk of wet gangrene). Routine use of antibiotics does not improve healing. Only use if there is infection (not colonization). 14 ’The fi rst sign of his approaching end was when one of my old aunts, while undressing him, removed a toe with one of his old socks.’ Graham Greene, A Sort of Life, 1971, Simon & Schuster. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 666600 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS Features of skin ulceration to note on examination 661 Site Above the medial malleolus (‘gaiter’ area) is the favourite place for venous ulcers (fi g 13.56; mostly related to superfi cial venous disease, but may refl ect venous hypertension via damage to the valves of the deep venous system, eg 2° to DVT).
