Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


(fi g 13.56; mostly related to superfi cial venous disease, but may refl ect venous hypertension via damage to the valves of the deep venous system, eg 2° to DVT). Venous hypertension leads to the development of superfi cial varicosities and skin changes (lipodermatosclerosis = induration, pigmentation, and infl ammation of the skin). Minimal trauma to the leg leads to ulceration which often takes many months to heal. Ulcers on the sacrum, greater trochanter, or heel suggest pressure sores (OHCS p604), particularly if the patient is bed-bound with suboptimal nutrition. Temperature The ulcer and surrounding tissues are cold in an ischaemic ulcer. If the skin is warm and well perfused then local factors are more likely. Surface area Draw a map of the area to quantify and time any healing (a wound >4wks old is a chronic ulcer as distinguished from an acute wound). Shape Oval, circular (cigarette burns), serpiginous (Klebsiella granulomatis, p412); unusual morphology can be secondary to mycobacterial infection, eg cutaneous tuberculosis or scrofuloderma (tuberculosis colliquativa cutis, where an infected lymph node ulcerates through to the skin). Edge Shelved/sloping ≈ healing; punched-out ≈ ischaemic or syphilis; rolled/evert- ed ≈ malignant; undermined ≈ TB. Base Any muscle, bone, or tendon destruction (malignancy; pressure sores; is- chaemia)? There may be a grey-yellow slough, beneath which is a pale pink base. Slough is a mixture of fi brin, cell breakdown products, serous exudate, leucocytes, and bacteria—it need not imply infection, and can be part of the normal wound healing process. Granulation tissue is a deep pink gel-like matrix contained within a fi brous collagen network and is evidence of a healing wound. Depth If not uncomfortable for the patient (eg in neuropathic ulceration), a probe can be used to gauge how deep the ulceration extends. Discharge Culture before starting any antibiotics (which usually don’t work). A watery discharge is said to favour TB; bleeding can ≈ malignancy. Associated lymphadenopathy Suggests infection or malignancy. Sensation Decreased sensation around the ulcer implies neuropathy. Position in phases of extension/healing Healing is heralded by granulation, scar formation, and epithelialization. Infl amed margins ≈ extension. Fig 13.56 Venous ulcer in the gaiter area in an obese woman. Reproduced from Burge et al., Oxford Handbook of Medical Dermatology, 2016, with permission from Oxford University Press. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 666611 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yregruS 14 Clinical chemistry Contents On being normal in the society of numbers 662 The essence of laboratory
