Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


people in some populations will have a plasma cholesterol greater than 6mmol/L and thus may be at increased risk. The WHO defi nition of anaemia in pregnancy is an Hb of <110g/L, which makes 20% of mothers anaemic. This ‘lax’ criterion has the presumed benefi t of triggering actions that result in fewer deaths from haemorrhage. So do not just ask ‘What is the normal range?’—also enquire about who set the range, for what population, and for what reason. We thank Dr Petra Sulentic, our Specialist Reader, for her contribution to this chapter. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 666622 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 The essence of laboratory medicine 663 General principles • Laboratory testing may contribute to four aspects of medicine: • diagnosis (eg TSH in hypothyrodism) • prognosis (eg clotting in liver failure) • monitoring disease activity or progression (eg creatinine in chronic kidney disease) • screening (eg phenylketonuria in newborn babies). • Only do a test if the result will infl uence management. Make sure you look at the result. • Always interpret laboratory results in the context of the patient's clinical picture. • If a result does not fi t with the clinical picture, trust clinical judgement and repeat the test. Could it be an artefact? The ‘normal’ range for a test (reference interval) is usually defi ned as the interval, symmetrical about the mean, containing 95% of results in a given population (p751). The more tests you run, the greater the prob- ability of an ‘abnormal’ result of no signifi cance (see p751). • Laboratory staff like to have contact with you. They are an excellent source of help and information for both requests and results. • Involve the patient. Don’t forget to explain to them where the test fi ts into their overall management plan. Getting the best out of the lab—a laboratory decalogue 1 Interest someone from the laboratory in your patient’s problem. 2 Fill in the request form fully. 3 Give clinical details, not your preferred diagnosis. 4 Ensure that the lab knows who to contact. 5 Label specimens as well as the request form. 6 Follow the hospital labelling routine for crossmatching. 7 Find out when analysers run, especially batched assays. 8 Talk with the lab before requesting an unusual test. 9 Be thoughtful: at1 6:30h the routine results are being sorted. 10 Plot results graphically: abnormalities show sooner. Artefacts and pitfalls in laboratory tests • Do not
