Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


an unusual test. 9 Be thoughtful: at1 6:30h the routine results are being sorted. 10 Plot results graphically: abnormalities show sooner. Artefacts and pitfalls in laboratory tests • Do not take blood samples from an arm that has IV fl uid running into it. • Repeat any unexpected and inconsistent result before acting on it. • For clotting time do not sample from a heparinized IV catheter. • Serum K+ is overestimated if the sample is old or haemolysed (this occurs if vene- puncture is diffi cult). • If using Vacutainers, fi ll plain tubes fi rst—otherwise, anticoagulant contam ination from previous tubes can cause errors. • Total calcium results are aff ected by albumin concentration (p676). • INR may be overestimated if citrate bottles are underfi lled. • Drugs may cause analytic errors (eg prednisolone cross-reacts with cortisol). Be suspicious if results are unexpected. • Food may aff ect result, eg bananas raise urinary HIAA (p271). Ford Madox Ford 1915 'The Good Soldier' Normal values can have hidden historical, social, and political desiderata—just like the normal values novelists ascribe to their characters: ‘Conventions and tradi- tions I suppose work blindly but surely for the preservation of the normal type; for the extinction of proud, resolute and unusual individuals… Society must go on, I suppose, and society can only exist if the normal, if the virtuous, and the slightly-deceitful fl ourish, and if the passionate, the headstrong, and the too- truthful are condemned to suicide and to madness. Yes, society must go on; it must breed, like rabbits. That is what we are here for … But, at any rate, there is always Leonora to cheer you up; I don’t want to sadden you. Her husband is quite an economical person of so normal a fi gure that he can get quite a large proportion of his clothes ready-made. That is the great desideratum of life.’ Oxford World's Classics, pp181–92 __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 666633 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yrtsimehc lacinilC 664 Biochemistry—some major disease patterns Dehydration Urea (disproportionate relative to smaller  in creatinine),1 albumin (also useful to plot change in a patient’s con dition), haematocrit (PCV); also urine volume and skin turgor. Abnormal kidney function There are two major biochemical pictures (table 14.1): Low GFR: Usually oliguric. Causes: early acute oliguric renal failure (p298), chronic kidney disease (p302). In chronic kidney disease also Hb, PTH, and renal bone disease. Tubular dysfunction: Results from
