Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


more sensitive indication of the degree of renal impairment than serum creatinine. Subjects with low muscle mass (eg the elderly, women) can have a ‘normal’ serum creatinine, despite a signifi cant reduction in GFR. This can be important when prescribing nephrotoxic drugs, or drugs that are renally excreted, which may therefore accumulate to toxic levels in the serum. A number of methods for estimating GFR exist, all relying on a calculation of the clearance of a substance that is renally fi ltered and then not reabsorbed in the renal tubule. For example, the rate of clearance of creatinine can be used as a marker for the rate of fi ltration of fl uid and solutes in the glomerulus because it is only slightly reabsorbed from the renal tubule. The more of the fi ltered substance that is reabsorbed, however, the less accurate the estimate of GFR. MDRD (Modifi cation of Diet in Renal Disease Study Group): This provides an estimate of GFR from four simple parameters: serum creatinine, age, gender, and race (black/non-black). It is one of the best validated for monitoring patients with established moderately severe renal impairment,2 and most labs now routinely report estimated GFR (eGFR) using the MDRD equation on all U&E reports: eGFR = 32 788 ≈ serum creatinineΩ1 . 154 ≈ ageΩ0 . 203 ≈ [1 . 212 if black] ≈ [0 . 742 if female] However, a number of caveats exist, so that it is best used in monitoring declin- ing renal function rather than labelling elderly patients with mild renal impairment: • It is not validated for mild renal impairment, and therefore its use for screening general populations is questionable. • Inter-individual variations (and thus confi dence intervals) are wide, although for each individual variations are small so that a decline in eGFR over a number of serum samples is always signifi cant. • Single results may be aff ected by variations in serum creatinine, such as after a protein-rich meal. Cockcroft–Gault equation: This provides an estimate of creatinine clearance. It is an improvement on the MDRD equation because it also takes into account the patient’s weight. However, 10% of creatinine is actively excreted in the tubules, and therefore creatinine clearance overestimates true GFR and underestimates renal impairment. Moreover, the equation assumes ideal body weight and is thus unreliable in the obese or oedematous. Also unreliable in unstable renal function. (140 Ω age)
