Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


caused by a respiratory problem. If there is no change, or an opposite one, then the change is compensatory. 3 Is the HCOΩ abnormal? (Normal concentration 22–28mmol/L.) 3 If so, is the change in keeping with the pH? • HCO3Ω is alkaline—is HCO3Ω raised with an alkalosis, lowered with an acidosis? If so, the problem is a metabolic one. 4 Is the PO abnormal? Interpret in the context of the FiO. a 2 2 An example Your patient’s blood gas shows: pH 7.05, CO2 2.0kPa, HCO3Ω 8.0mmol/L. There is an acidosis. The CO2 is low, and thus it is a compensatory change. The HCO3Ω is low and is thus the primary change, ie a metabolic acidosis. The anion gap Estimates unmeasured plasma anions (‘fi xed’ or organic acids such as phosphate, ketones, and lactate—hard to measure directly). It is calculated as the diff erence between plasma cations (Na+ and K+) and anions (ClΩ and HCO3Ω). Normal range: 10–18mmol/L. It is helpful in determining the cause of a metabolic acidosis. Metabolic acidosis pH, HCO3Ω Causes of metabolic acidosis and an increased anion gap: Due to increased production, or reduced excretion, of fi xed/organic acids. HCO3Ω falls and unmeasured anions associated with the acids accumulate. • Lactic acid (shock, infection, tissue ischaemia). • Urate (renal failure). • Ketones (diabetes mellitus, alcohol). • Drugs/toxins (salicylates, biguanides, ethylene glycol, methanol). Causes of metabolic acidosis and a normal anion gap: Due to loss of bicarbonate or ingestion of H+ ions (ClΩ is retained). • Renal tubular acidosis. • Diarrhoea. • Drugs (acetazolamide). • Addison’s disease. • Pancreatic fi stula. • Ammonium chloride ingestion. Metabolic alkalosis pH, HCO3Ω • Vomiting. • K+ depletion (diuretics). • Burns. • Ingestion of base. Respiratory acidosis pH, CO2 • Type 2 respiratory failure due to any lung, neuromuscular, or physical cause (p188). • Most commonly chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Look at the PaO2. It will probably be low. Is oxygen therapy required? Use controlled O2 (Venturi connector) if COPD is the underlying cause, as too much oxygen may make matters worse (p189).  Beware exhaustion in asthma, pneumonia, and pulmonary oedema, which can pre- sent with this picture when close to respiratory arrest. A normal or high PaCO2 is worrying. These patients require urgent ITU review for ventilatory support. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 667700 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yrtsimehc lacinilC Respiratory alkalosis pH, CO2 671 A result of hyperventilation of any cause. CNS causes:
