Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Yes No Na+ and H2O are Na+ and H2O • Nephrotic syn- Is the urine lost via kidneys: are lost other drome osmolality • Addison’s dis. than via the • Cardiac failure >100mmol/kg? • Renal failure, kidneys: • Liver cirrhosis eg diuretic • Diarrhoea (hyponatraemia phase of renal • Vomiting may precede failure; • Fistulae oedema) nephro- • Burns • Renal failure calc inosis or • Rectal villous med ullary adeno ma cystic disease • Small bowel • Diuretic obstruction Yes No excess • Trauma • Osmolar • Cystic fi brosis • SIADH • Water di uresis • Heat expo- (see BOX) overload • Severe hypo- (glu cose; sure thy roidism urea) • Gluco- corticoid insuffi ciency Fig 14.3 Hyponatraemia. Syndrome of inappropriate ADH secretion (SIADH) An important, but over-diagnosed, cause of hyponatraemia. The diagnosis re- quires concentrated urine (Na+ > 20mmol/L and osmolality > 100mosmol/kg) in the presence of hypon atraemia (plasma Na+ < 125mmol/L) and low plasma osmolality (< 260mosmol/kg), in the absence of hypovolaemia, oedema, or diuretics. Causes: • Malignancy: lung small-cell, pancreas, prostate, thymus, or lymphoma. • CNS disorders: meningoencephalitis, abscess, stroke, subarachnoid or subdural haemorrhage, head injury, neurosurgery, Guillain–Barré, vasculitis, or SLE. • Chest disease: TB, pneumonia, abscess, aspergillosis, small-cell lung cancer. • Endocrine disease: hypothyroidism (not true SIADH, but perhaps due to excess ADH release from carotid sinus baroreceptors triggered by  cardiac output). • Drugs: opiates, psychotropics, SSRIs, cytotoxics. • Other: acute intermittent porphyria, trauma, major abdominal or thoracic sur- gery, symptomatic HIV. Treatment: Treat the cause and restrict fl uid. Consider salt ± loop diuretic if severe. Demeclocycline is used rarely. Vasopressin receptor antagonists (‘vaptans’, p672) are an emerging class of drug used in SIADH and other types of hyponatraemia. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 667733 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yrtsimehc lacinilC 674 Hyperkalaemia A plasma potassium >6.5mmol/L is a potential emergency and needs urgent as- sessment (see p301). The worry is of myocardial hyperexcitability leading to ven- tricular fi brillation and cardiac arrest. First assess the patient—do they look unwell, is there an obvious cause? If not, could it be an artefactual result? Concerning signs and symptoms Include a fast irregular pulse, chest pain, weak- ness, palpitations, and light-headedness. ECG: (see fi g 14.4) tall tented T waves, small P waves, a wide QRS complex (eventually becoming sinusoidal), and ventricular fi bril- lation. Artefactual results: If the patient is well, and has none of the above-mentioned fi
