Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


kidney disease: See p302. May require alfacalcidol, eg 0.5–1mcg/24h PO. • Severe symptoms: Give 10mL of 10% calcium gluconate (2.25mmol) IV over 30min, and repeat as necessary. If due to respiratory alkalosis, correct the alkalosis. Features of hypocalcaemia ‘SPASMODIC’ Spasms (carpopedal spasms = Trous seau’s sign) Perioral paraesthesiae Anxious, irritable, irrational Seizures Muscle tone  in smooth muscle—hence colic, wheeze, and dysphagia Orientation impaired (time, place, and person) and confusion Dermatitis (eg atopic/exfoliative) Im petigo herpetiformis (Ca2+ and pus t ules in pregnancy—rare and serious) Chvostek’s sign; choreoathetosis; cataract; cardiom yopathy (long QT interval on ECG). Fig 14.6 Trousseau’s sign: on infl ating the cuff , Fig 14.7 Chvostek’s sign: the corner of the the wrist and fi ngers fl ex and draw together mouth twitches when the facial nerve is tapped (carpopedal spasm). over the parotid. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 667788 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yrtsimehc lacinilC Phosphate 679 Hypophosphataemia Common and of little signifi cance unless severe (<0.4mmol/L). Causes: Vitamin D defi ciency, alcohol withdrawal, refeeding syndrome (p587), in- adequate oral intake, severe diabetic ketoacidosis, renal tubular dysfunction and 1° hyperparathyroidism. Signs and symptoms: Muscle weakness or rhabdomyoly- sis, red cell, white cell and platelet dysfunction, and cardiac arrest or arrhythmias. Treatment: Oral or parenteral phosphate supplementation, eg Phosphate Polyfu- sor® IVI (100mmol PO43Ω in 500mL). Never give IV phosphate to a patient who is hypercalcaemic or oliguric. Hyperphosphataemia Most commonly due to chronic kidney disease, when it is treated with phosphate binders, eg sevelamer 800mg/8h PO during meals. Also cata- bolic states such as tumour lysis syndrome (p529). Magnesium Magnesium is distributed 65% in bone and 35% in cells; plasma concentration tends to follow that of Ca2+ and K+. Hypomagnesaemia Causes paraesthesiae, ataxia, seizures, tetany, arrhythmias. Digitalis toxicity may be exacerbated. Causes: Diuretics, severe diarrhoea, ke- toacidosis, alcohol abuse, total parenteral nutrition (monitor weekly), Ca2+, K+, and PO43Ω. Treatment: If needed, give magnesium salts, PO or IV (eg 8mmol MgSO4 IV over 3min to 2h, depending on severity, with frequent Mg2+ levels). Hypermagnesaemia Rarely requires treatment unless severe (>7.5mmol/L). Causes: Renal failure or iatrogenic (eg excessive antacids). Signs: If severe: neuro- muscular depression, BP, pulse, hypor efl exia, CNS & respiratory depression, coma. Zinc Zinc defi ciency This may occur in parenteral nutrition or, rarely, from a poor diet (too few cereals and dairy products; anorexia nervosa; alcoholism). Rarely it is due to a genetic defect. Symptoms: Alopecia, dermatitis (look for red,
