Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


nutrition or, rarely, from a poor diet (too few cereals and dairy products; anorexia nervosa; alcoholism). Rarely it is due to a genetic defect. Symptoms: Alopecia, dermatitis (look for red, crusted skin le- sions especially around nostrils and corners of mouth), night blindness, diarrhoea. Diagnosis: Therapeutic trial of zinc (plasma levels are unreliable as they may be low, eg in infection or trauma, without defi ciency). Selenium An essential element present in cereals, nuts, and meat. Low soil levels in some parts of Europe and China cause defi ciency states. Required for the antioxidant glutathione peroxidase, which  harmful free radicals. Selenium is also antithrom- bogenic, and is required for sperm motility proteins. Defi ciency may increase risk of neoplasia and atheroma, and may lead to a cardiomyopathy or arthritis. Serum levels are a poor guide. Toxic symptoms may also be found with over-energetic re- placement. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 667799 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yrtsimehc lacinilC 680 Urate and the kidney Causes of hyperuricaemia High levels of urate in the blood (hyperuricaemia) may result from increased turnover (15%) or reduced excretion of urate (85%). Either may be drug induced. • Drugs: Cytotoxics, thiazides, loop diuretics, pyrazinamide. • Increased cell turnover: Lymphoma, leukaemia, psoriasis, haemolysis, muscle death (rhabdomyolysis, p319; tumour lysis syndrome, p529). • Reduced excretion: Primary gout (p548), chronic kidney disease, lead nephropathy, hyperparathyroidism, pre-eclampsia (OHCS p48). • Other: Hyperuricaemia may be associated with hypertension and hyperlipidaemia. Urate may be raised in disorders of purine synthesis such as the Lesch–Nyhan syndrome (OHCS p648). Hyperuricaemia and renal failure Severe renal failure from any cause may be associated with hyperuricaemia, and rarely this may give rise to gout. Sometimes the relationship of cause and eff ect is reversed so that it is the hyperuricaemia that causes the renal failure. This can occur following cytotoxic treatment (tumour lysis syndrome, p529), and in muscle necrosis. How urate causes renal failure: Urate is poorly soluble in water, so over-excretion can lead to crystal precipitation. Renal failure occurs most commonly because urate precipitates in the renal tubules. This may occur at plasma levels ≥1 . 19mmol/L. In some instances, ureteric obstruction from urate crystals may occur. This responds to retrograde ureteric catheterization and lavage. Prevention of renal failure: Before starting chemotherapy, ensure good hydration and initiate allopurinol (xanthine oxidase inhibitor) or rasburicase (recombinant urate oxidase), which prevent a sharp rise in urate following chemotherapy (see p528). There is a remote
