Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


and their lifetime risk of fracture is less. Risk factors Age-independent risk factors for 1° osteoporosis: parental history, alcohol >4 units daily, rheumatoid arthritis, BMI <19, prolonged immobility, and un- treated menopause. See BOX ‘Osteoporosis risk factors’ for other risk factors, includ- ing for 2° osteoporosis. Investigations X-ray (low sensitivity/specifi city, often with hindsight after a fracture). Bone densitometry (DEXA—see BOX ‘DEXA bone densitometry’; table 14.5). Bloods: Ca2+, PO43Ω, and ALP normal. Consider specifi c investigations for 2° causes if suggestive history. Biopsy is unreliable and unnecessary with non-invasive tech- niques available. Management Loss of bone mineral density may not be entirely irreversible. Age, number of risk factors, and bone mineral density (DEXA scan; see BOX ‘DEXA bone den- sitometry’) guide the pharmacological approach (eg FRAX, which is a WHO risk assess- ment tool for estimating 10-yr risk of osteoporotic fracture in untreated patients; see www.shef.ac.uk/frax),13,14 although DEXA is not necessary if age >75yrs. Lifestyle measures should apply to all (including those at risk but not yet osteoporotic). Lifestyle measures: • Quit smoking and reduce alcohol consumption. • Weight-bearing exercise may increase bone mineral density.15 • Balance exercises such as tai chi reduce risk of falls. • Calcium and vitamin D-rich diet (use supplements if diet is insuffi cient—see ‘Phar- macological measures’ later in this topic). • Home-based fall-prevention programme, with visual assessment and a home visit. NB: hip-protectors are unreliable for preventing fractures.16 Pharmacological measures: • Bisphosphonates: alendronic acid is 1st line (10mg/d or 70mg/wk; not if eGFR <35). Use also for prevention in long-term steroid use. If intolerant, try etidronate or rise- dronate. Tell patient to swallow pills with plenty of water while remaining upright for >30min and wait 30min before eating or other drugs. (SE: photosensitivity; GI upset; oesophageal ulcers—stop if dysphagia or abdo pain; rarely, jaw osteonecrosis). • Calcium and vitamin D: rarely used alone for prophylaxis, as questionable effi cacy and some evidence of a small CV risk. Off er if evidence of defi ciency, eg calcium 1g/d + vit D 800U/d. Target serum 25-hydroxy-vitamin D level ≥75nmol/L. • Strontium ranelate: due to an increased risk of cardiac problems it should only be used in those with severe intolerance of other agents and without cardiovascular disease. • Hormone replacement therapy (HRT) can prevent (not treat) osteoporosis in post- menopausal women. Relative risk of breast cancer is 1 . 4 if used >10yrs;  CV risk.
