Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


disease. • Hormone replacement therapy (HRT) can prevent (not treat) osteoporosis in post- menopausal women. Relative risk of breast cancer is 1 . 4 if used >10yrs;  CV risk. • Raloxifene is a selective oestrogen receptor modulator (SERM) that acts similarly to HRT, but with  breast cancer risk. • Teriparatide (recombinant PTH) is useful in those who suff er further fractures de- spite treatment with other agents. There is a potential  risk of renal malignancy. • Calcitonin may reduce pain after a vertebral fracture. • Testosterone may help in hypo gonadal men by promoting trabecular connectivity. • Denosumab, a monoclonal Ab to RANK ligand, given SC twice yearly  reabsorption. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 668822 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yrtsimehc lacinilC DEXA bone densitometry: WHO osteoporosis criteria 683 It is better to scan the hip than the lumbar spine. Bone mineral density (g/cm2) is compared with that of a young healthy adult. The ‘T-score’ is the number of standard deviations (SD, p751) the bone mineral density (BMD) is from the youthful average. Each decrease of 1 SD in BMD ≈ 2.6-fold  in risk of hip fracture. Table 14.5 Interpreting DEXA bone scan results T-score >0 BMD is better than the reference. 0 to Ω1 BMD is in the top 84%: no evidence of osteoporosis. Ω1 to Ω2.5 Osteopenia. Risk of later osteoporotic fracture. Off er lifestyle advice. Ω2.5 or worse Osteoporosis. Off er lifestyle advice and treatment (p682). Repeat DEXA in 2yrs. Some indications for DEXA: • NICE suggests DEXA if previous low-trauma fracture, or for women ≥ 65yrs with one or more risk factors for osteoporosis, or younger if two or more. The benefi ts of universal screening for osteoporosis remain unproven, but some authorities rec- ommend this for men and women over 70—and earlier if risk factors are present.17 • DEXA is not needed pre-treatment for women over 75yrs if previous low-trauma fracture, or ≥ 2 present of rheumatoid arthritis, alcohol excess, or positive family history. • Prior to giving long-term predniso lone (eg 3 months at >5mg/d). Steroids cause osteoporosis by promoting osteoclast bone resorption, muscle mass, and Ca2+ absorption from the gut. • Men or women with osteopenia if low-trauma, non-vertebral fracture. • Bone and bone-remodelling disorders (eg parathyroid disorders, myeloma, HIV, esp. if on protease inhibitors). Osteoporosis risk factors: ‘SHATTERED’ Steroid use of >5mg/d of prednisolone. Hyperthyroidism, hyperparathyroidism, hypercalciuria. Alcohol and tobacco use . Thin (BMI
