Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


(eg parathyroid disorders, myeloma, HIV, esp. if on protease inhibitors). Osteoporosis risk factors: ‘SHATTERED’ Steroid use of >5mg/d of prednisolone. Hyperthyroidism, hyperparathyroidism, hypercalciuria. Alcohol and tobacco use . Thin (BMI <18.5). Testosterone  (eg antia ndrogen ca prostate ). Early menopause. Renal or liver failure. Erosive/infl ammatory bone disease (eg myeloma or rheumatoid arthritis). Dietary Ca2+/malab sorption; diabetes mellitus type 1. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 668833 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yrtsimehc lacinilC 684 Metabolic bone diseases: osteomalacia In osteomalacia, there is a normal amount of bone but its mineral content is low (there is excess uncalcifi ed osteoid and cartilage). This is the reverse of osteoporosis in which mineralization is unchanged, but there is overall bone loss. Rickets is the result if this process occurs during the period of bone growth; osteomalacia is the result if it occurs after fusion of the epiphyses. Signs and symptoms Rickets: Growth retardation, hypotonia, apathy in infants. Once walking: knock- kneed, bow-legged, and deformities of the metaphyseal–epiphyseal junction (eg the rachitic rosary). Features of Ca2+—often mild (p678). Children with rickets are ill. Osteomalacia: Bone pain and tenderness; fractures (esp. femoral neck); proximal myopathy (waddling gait), due to PO43Ω and vitamin D defi ciency per se. Causes Vitamin D defi ciency: Due to malabsorption (p266), poor diet, or lack of sunlight. Renal osteodystrophy: Renal failure leads to 1,25-dihydroxy-cholecalciferol defi cien- cy [1,25(OH)2-vitamin D defi ciency]. See also renal bone disease (p312). Drug-induced: Anticonvulsants may induce liver enzymes, leading to an increased breakdown of 25-hydroxy-vitamin D. Vitamin D resistance: A number of mainly inherited conditions in which the os- teomalacia responds to high doses of vitamin D (see ‘Treatment’ later in this topic). Liver disease: Due to reduced hydroxylation of vitamin D to 25-hydroxy-cholecalcif- erol and malabsorption of vitamin D, eg in cirrhosis (p276). Tumour-induced osteomalacia: (Oncogenic hypophosphataemia.) Mediated by raised tumour production of phosphato nin fi broblast growth factor 23 (FGF-23) which causes hyperphosphaturia. serum PO43Ω often causes myalgia and weakness.18 Investigations Plasma: Mildly Ca2+ (but may be severe); PO43Ω; ALP; PTH high; 25(OH)-vitamin D, except in vitamin D resistance. In renal failure, 1,25(OH)2-vitamin D (p312). Biopsy: Bone biopsy shows incomplete mineralization. Muscle biopsy (if proximal myopathy) is normal. X-ray: In osteomalacia, there is a loss of cortical bone; also, apparent partial frac- tures without displacement may be seen especially on the lateral border of the scapula, inferior femoral neck, and medial femoral shaft (Looser’s zones; see fi g 14.9).
