Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


circumscripta of the skull). Af- fi nity for axial skeleton, long bones, and skull. Bone scan may reveal ‘hot spots’. Blood chemistry Ca2+ and PO43Ω normal; ALP markedly raised. Treatment If analgesia fails, alendronic acid may be tried to reduce pain and/or deformity. It is more eff ective than etidronate or calcitonin, and as eff ective as IV pamidronate. Follow expert advice. Fig 14.10 Rickets. Typical ragged meta- physeal surfaces are seen in the knee and ankle joints of a child with rickets, with bowing of the long bones. Image courtesy of Dr Ian Maddison. Fig 14.9 Osteomalacia. Cortical bone lucen- cy and Looser’s zones are seen in both fore- arms of a patient with osteomalacia. Image courtesy of Dr Ian Maddison. Fig 14.11 Paget’s disease. The ‘sabre tibia’ seen in Paget’s disease, with multiple sclerotic lesions. Image courtesy of Dr Ian Maddison. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 668855 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yrtsimehc lacinilC 686 Plasma proteins The plasma contains a number of proteins including albumin, immunoglobulins, 1- antitrypsin, 2-macroglobulin, caeruloplasmin, transferrin, low-density lipoprotein (LDL), fi brinogen, complement, and factor VIII. The most abundant is albumin (see fi g 14.12). Albumin Synthesized in the liver; t½ ≈ 20d. It binds bilirubin, free fatty acids, Ca2+, and some drugs. Low albumin: Results in oedema, and is caused by: •synthesis: liver disease, acute phase response (due to vascular permeability—eg sepsis, trau- ma, surgery), malabsorption, malnutrition, malignancy •loss: nephrotic syndrome, protein-losing enteropathy, burns •haemodilution: late pregnancy, artefact (eg from ‘drip’ arm). Also posture (5g/L if upright) and genetic variations. High albumin: Causes are dehydration; artefact (eg stasis). Immunoglobulins (Antibodies) are synthesized by B cells. Five isoforms Ig A,D,E,G,M exist in humans, and IgG is the most abundant circulating form. Specifi c monoclonal band in paraproteinaemia (see p370). Diffusely raised in chronic infec- tions, TB, bronchiectasis, liver cirrhosis, sarcoidosis, SLE, RA, Crohn’s disease, 1° biliary cirrhosis, hepatitis, and parasitaemia. Low in nephrotic syndrome, malabsorption, malnutrition, and immune defi ciency states (eg severe illness, renal failure, diabetes mellitus, malignancy, or congenital). Acute phase response The body responds to a variety of insults with, among other things, the synthesis, by the liver, of a number of proteins (normally present in serum in small quantities)—eg 1-antitrypsin, fi brinogen, complement, haptoglobin, and CRP. A concomitant reduction in albumin level, is characteristic of conditions such as infection, malignancy (especially 2-fraction), trauma, surgery, and infl ammatory disease. CRP So called because it binds to a
