Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


damage, cell turnover, cellular proliferation (malignancy), enzyme induc- tion, and clearance. The major causes of raised enzymes: Alkaline phosphatase (Several distinguishable isoforms exist, eg liver and bone.) • Liver disease (suggests cholestasis; also cirrhosis, abscess, hepatitis, or malignancy). • Bone disease (isoenzyme distinguishable, refl ects osteoblast activity) especially Paget’s, growing children, healing fractures, bone metastases, osteomalacia, os- teomyelitis, chronic kidney disease, and hyperparathyroidism. • Congestive cardiac failure (moderately raised). • Pregnancy (placenta makes its own isoenzyme). Alanine and aspartate aminotransferase (ALT and AST) • Liver disease (suggests hepatocyte damage). • AST also  in MI, skeletal muscle damage (especially crush injuries), and haemolysis. -Amylase • Acute pancreatitis (smaller rise in chronic pancreatitis as less tissue remaining). • Also: severe uraemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, severe gastroenteritis, and peptic ulcer. Creatine kinase (CK) A raised CK does not necessarily mean an MI. • Myocardial infarction (p118; isoenzyme ‘CK-MB’. Diagnostic if CK-MB >6% of total CK, or CK-MB mass >99 percentile of normal). CK returns to baseline within 48h (unlike troponin, which remains raised for ~10 days),  useful for detecting re-infarction. • Muscle damage (rhabdomyolysis, p319; prolonged running; haematoma; seizures; IM injection; defi brillation; bowel ischaemia; myxoedema; dermatomyositis, p552)— and drugs (eg statins). Gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT, GT) • Liver disease (particularly alcohol-induced damage, cholestasis, drugs). Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) • Myocardial infarction (p118). • Liver disease (suggests hepatocyte damage). • Haemolysis (esp. sickle cell crisis), pulmonary embolism, and tumour necrosis. Troponin • Subtypes troponin T and troponin I are used clinically. • Cardiac damage or strain (MI—p118, pericarditis, myocarditis, PE, sepsis, CPR). • Chronic kidney disease (troponin T only; elevation less marked; aetiology unknown). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 668888 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yrtsimehc lacinilC Enzyme inducers and inhibitors 689 Hepatic drug metabolism is mainly by conjugation or oxidation. The oxidative pathways are catalysed by the family of cytochrome P450 isoenzymes, the most important of which is the CYP 3A4 isoenzyme. The cytochrome P450 pathway may be either induced or inhibited by a range of commonly used drugs and foods (table 14.7). This can lead to important interactions or side-eff ects. For example, phenytoin reduces the eff ectiveness of the contraceptive pill due to more rapid oestrogen metabolism, and ciprofl oxacin retards the metabolism of methylxanthines (ami- nophylline) which leads to higher plasma levels and potentially more side-eff ects. The BNF contains a list of the major interactions between drugs. Table 14.7 Common inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450
