Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


leads to higher plasma levels and potentially more side-eff ects. The BNF contains a list of the major interactions between drugs. Table 14.7 Common inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 isoenzymes Enzyme inducers Enzyme inhibitors Phenytoin SSRIS Amiodarone Rifampicin Ciprofl oxacin Diltiazem Carbamazepine Isoniazid Verapamil Alcohol Macrolides Omeprazole St John’s wort HIV protease inhibitors Grapefruit juice Barbiturates Imidazole and triazole antifungal agents __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 668899 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yrtsimehc lacinilC 690 Hyperlipidaemia Lipids travel in blood packaged with proteins as lipoproteins. There are four classes: chylomicrons and VLDL (mainly triglyceride), LDL (mainly cholesterol), and HDL (mainly phosphol ipid) (for abbreviations see footnote3). The evidence that cholesterol is a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease (CVD) is undisputed (‘4S’ STUDY, 21 WOSCOPS, 22 CARE STUDY, 23 HEART PROTECTION STUDY 24) and indeed it may even be the ‘green light’ that allows other risk factors to act. 25 Half the UK population have a serum cholesterol putting them at signifi cant risk of CVD. HDL appears to correlate inversely with CVD. Who to screen for hyperlipidaemia NB: full screening requires a fasting lipid profi le. Those at risk of hyperlipidaemia: •Family history of hyperlipidaemia. •Corneal ar- cus <50yrs old. •Xanthomata or xanthelasmata (fi g 14.13). Those at risk of CVD: •Known CVD. •Family history of CVD <60yrs old. •DM or impaired glucose tolerance. •Hypertension. •Smoker. •BMI. •Low socioeconomic or Indian Asian background. Types of hyperlipidaemia Common primary hyperlipidaemia: Accounts for 70% of hyperlipidaemia. LDL only. Familial primary hyperlipidaemias: Multiple phenotypes exist (see table 14.8). Risk of CVD, although evidence suggests protection from CVD is achieved with lower doses of statin than for common primary hyperlipidaemia. 26 Refer to specialist. Secondary hyperlipidaemia: Causes include: Cushing’s syndrome, hypothyroidism, nephrotic syndrome, or cholestasis. LDL. Treat the cause fi rst. Mixed hyperlipidaemia: Results in  in both LDL and triglycerides. Caused by type 2 diabetes mellitus, metabolic syndrome, alcohol abuse, and chronic renal failure. Management Identify familial or 2° hyperlipidaemias, as  may diff er. Give lifestyle advice; aim for BMI of 20–25; encourage a Mediterranean-style diet—fruit, vegetables, fi sh, unsatu- rated fats; and red meat; exercise. Top  priority are those with known CVD (there is no need to calculate their risk: ipso facto they already have high risk). Second  priority is primary prevention in patients with chronic kidney disease or type-1 diabetes, and those with a 10-yr risk of CVD >10%, irrespective of baseline lipid
