Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Trig <2.3 arcus; xanthelasma Common hypercholesterol- Chol 6.5–9 LDL The commonest 1° aemiaIIa Trig <2.3 lipidaemia; may have xanthelasma or arcus Familial combined hyper- Chol 6.5–10 LDL VLDL Next commonest 1° lipid- lipidaemiaIIb, IV, OR V Trig 2.3–12 HDL aemia; xanthelasma; arcus Dysbetalipoproteinaemia Chol 9–14 IDL Palmar striae; tubero- (remnant particle disease)III Trig 9–14 HDL LDL eruptive xanthoma Familial hypertriglyceridae- Chol 6.5–12 VLDL miaIV Trig 3.0–6.0 Type V hyperlipoproteina emia Trig 10–30; Eruptive xanthomata; chylomicrons lipaemia retinalis; found hepatosplenomegaly Blue superscript numbers = WHO phenotype; chol/trig levels given in mmol/L. Primary HDL abnormalities: • Hyperalphalipoproteinaemia: HDL, chol >2. • Hypoalphalipoproteinaemia (Tangier disease): HDL, chol <0.92. Primary LDL abnormalities: • Abetalipoproteinaemia (ABL): trig <0 . 3, chol <1 . 3, missing LDL, VLDL, and chylomicrons. Autosomal recessive disorder of fat malabsorption causing vitamin A & E defi ciency, with retinitis pigmentosa, sensory neuropathy, ataxia, pes cavus, and acanthocytosis. • Hypobetalipoproteinaemia: chol <1 . 5, LDL, HDL. Autosomal codominant disorder of apolipoprotein B metabolism. longevity in heterozygotes. Homozygotes pre- sent with a similar clinical picture to ABL. Fig 14.13 Xanthelasma. Xanthos is Greek for yellow, and elasma means plate. Xanthelasmata are lipid-laden yellow plaques, typically a few millimetres wide. They congregate around the lids, or just below the eyes, and signify hyperlipidaemia. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 669911 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yrtsimehc lacinilC 692 The porphyrias The porphyrias are a heterogenous group of rare diseases caused by various er- rors of haem biosynthesis (produced when iron is chelated into protoporphyrin IX), which may be genetic or acquired. Depending on the stage in haem biosynthesis that is faulty, there is accumulation of either porphyrinogens, which are unstable and oxidize to porphyrins, or their precursors, porphobilinogen and -aminolaevulinic acid. Porphyrin precursors are neurotoxic, while porphyrins themselves induce pho- tosensitivity and the formation of toxic free radicals. • Alcohol, lead, and iron defi ciency cause abnormal porphyrin metabolism. • Genetic counselling (OHCS p154) should be off ered to all patients and their families. Acute porphyrias Occur when the accumulation of porphyrinogen precursors pre- dominates, and are characterized by acute neurovisceral crises, though some forms have additional photosensitive cutaneous manifestations. Acute intermittent porphyria: (‘The Madness of King George.’) A low-penetrant autosomal dominant condition (porphobilinogen deaminase gene); 28% have no family history (de novo mutations). ~10% of those with the defective gene have neurovisceral symptoms. Attacks are intermittent, more common in women and those aged 18–40, and may be precipitated by drugs.
