Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


(de novo mutations). ~10% of those with the defective gene have neurovisceral symptoms. Attacks are intermittent, more common in women and those aged 18–40, and may be precipitated by drugs. Urine porphobilinogens are raised during attacks (the urine may go deep red on standing) and also, in ~50%, be- tween attacks. Faecal porphyrin levels are normal. There is never cutaneous photo- sensitivity. It is the commonest form of porphyria—prevalence in UK: 1–2/100 000. Variegate porphyria and hereditary coproporphyria: Autosomal dominant, char- acterized by photosensitive blistering skin lesions and/or acute attacks. The former is prevalent in Afrikaners in South Africa. Porphobilinogen is high only during an attack, and other metabolites may be detected in faeces. Triggers of an acute attack: Include infection, starvation (including pre-operative ‘nil-by-mouth’), reproductive hormones (pregnancy, premenstrual), smoking, anaes- thesia, and cytochrome P450 enzyme inducers (alcohol, and other drugs—see BOX). Features of an acute attack: • Gastrointestinal: abdominal pain, vomiting, constipation. • Neuropsychiatric: peripheral neuropathy (weakness, hypotonia, pain, numbness), seizures (often associated with severe Na+), psychosis (or other odd behaviour).4 • Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, shock (due to sympathetic overactivity). • Other: fever, Na+, K+, proteinuria, urinary porphobilinogens, discoloured urine. Rare but serious complications include bulbar and respiratory paralysis. Beware the ‘acute abdomen’ in acute intermittent porphyria: colic, vomiting, fever, and WCC—so mimicking an acute surgical abdomen. Anaesthesia could be disastrous. Treatment of an acute attack: • Remove precipitants (review medications; treat intercurrent illness/infection). • IV fl uids to correct electrolyte imbalance. • High carbohydrate intake (eg Hycal®) by NG tube, or IV if necessary. • IV haematin is 1st-line (inhibits production of porphyrinogen precursors). • Nausea controlled with prochlorperazine 12.5mg IM. • Sedate if necessary with chlorpromazine 50–100mg PO/IM. • Pain control with opiate or opioid analgesia (avoid oxycodone). • Seizures can be controlled with diazepam (although this will prolong the attack). • Treat tachycardia and hypertension with a -blocker. Non-acute porphyrias Porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT), erythropoietic protoporphyria, and congenital erythro poietic porphyria are characterized by cutaneous photosensitivity alone, as there is no overproduction of porphyrinogen precursors, only porphyrins. PCT pre- sents in adults with blistering skin lesions ± facial hypertrichosis and hyperpigmen- tation. Total plasma porphyrins and LFTS are . Screen for associated disorders: hep C, HIV, iron overload, hepatocellular ca. : phlebotomy, iron chelators, chloroquine, sunscreens. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 669922 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 yrtsimehc lacinilC Drugs to avoid in acute intermittent porphyria 693 There are many, many drugs that
