Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


imply nothing about causes. Alice in Wonderland syndrome Altered perception in size and shape of body parts or objects ± an impaired sense of passing time—as experienced by Alice in Lewis Car- roll’s novel. Seen in epilepsy, migraine, and cerebral lesions.1,2Alice Pleasance Liddell, 1865–1934 Arnold–Chiari malformation Malformed cerebellar tonsils and medulla herniate through the foramen magnum. This may cause infantile hydrocephalus with mental retardation, optic atrophy, ocular palsies, and spastic paresis of the limbs. Spina bifi da, syringomyelia (p516), or focal cerebellar and brainstem signs may occur (p499). There may be bony abnormalities of the base of the skull. Often presents in early adulthood. MRI aids diagnosis. Julius Arnold, 1835–1915 (German pathologist); Hans Chiari, 1851–1916 (Austrian pathologist) Baker’s cyst Fluid from a knee eff usion escapes to form a popliteal cyst (often swollen and painful) in a sub-gastrocnemius bursa.3 Usually secondary to degen- eration.  : DVT (exclude if calf swelling); sarcoma. Imaging: USS; M RI. : None if asymptomatic. NSAIDS/ice if painful. Spontaneous resolution may take 10–20 months. Arthroscopy + cystectomy may be needed. William M Baker, 1838–1896 (British surgeon) Bazin’s disease (Erythema induratum.) Localized areas of fat necrosis that pro- duce painful, fi rm nodules ± ulceration and an indura ted rash, characteristically on adolescent girls’ calves. It is associated with TB. Nodular vasculitis is a variant unre- lated to TB.4 Pierre-Antoine-Ernest Bazin, 1807–1878 (French dermatologist) Behçet’s disease A systemic infl ammatory disorder of unknown cause, associated with HLA-B5. It is most common along the old Silk Road, from the Mediterranean to China. Features: Recurrent oral and genital ulceration, uveitis, skin lesions (eg erythema nodosum, papulopustular lesions); arthritis (non-erosive large joint oli- goarthropathy); thrombophlebitis; vasculitis; myo/pericarditis; CNS involvement (py- ramidal signs); and colitis. Diagnosis: Mainly clinical. Pathergy test: needle prick leads to papule formation within 48hrs. : Colchicine for orogenital ulceration; ster- oids, azathioprine/cyclophosphamide for systemic disease. Infl iximab has a role in ocular disease unresponsive to topical steroids.5 Hulusi Behçet, 1889–1948 (Turkish dermatologist) Berger’s disease (IgA nephropathy, p311.) Ranges from invisible haematuria to rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis. Biopsy shows mesangial IgA deposition. Usu- ally indolent disease, but progression to end-stage renal failure occurs. : ACE-i/ARB if BP or proteinuria. Immunosuppression considered for progressive disease.6 Jean Berger, 1930–2011 (French nephrologist) Bickerstaff ’s brainstem encephalitis Ophthalmoplegia, ataxia, arefl exia, and ex- tensor plantars ± tetra plegia ± coma, and a reversible brain death picture (but there is no structural damage).
