Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


nephrologist) Bickerstaff ’s brainstem encephalitis Ophthalmoplegia, ataxia, arefl exia, and ex- tensor plantars ± tetra plegia ± coma, and a reversible brain death picture (but there is no structural damage). MRI: hyperintense brainstem signals. GQ1b antibodies +ve.7 Plas- mapheresis may help. Edwin R Bickerstaff, 1920–2008 (British physician) We thank Dr Simon Eyre, our Specialist Reader, for his contribution to this chapter. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 669944 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 Barrett’s oesophagus 695 Barrett’s oesophagus is metaplasia of the normal stratifi ed squamous epithelium of the distal oesophagus to a columnar epithelium, as a result of chronic GORD (p254). Estimates of prevalence vary widely, but in patients with a history of symptomatic GORD, rates of ≈8% have been reported. Importantly, screening studies in asympto- matic individuals have reported rates of ≈6%. General population-based screening is not recommended, although screening endoscopy may be considered in individuals with chronic GORD symptoms and multiple risk factors (>50 years old, obesity, , white race, family history of Barrett's or oesophageal adenocarcinoma). Diagnosis: Biopsy of endoscopically visible columnarization allows histological corroboration. The length should be recorded (using the Prague classifi cation). Management: Focus on detecting and preventing the most signifi cant associated morbidity: oesophageal adenocarcinoma. The risk of progression is low (0.1–0.4% per patient per year, much lower than previously suggested). Risk factors for malignant trans- formation include age, , long segment of oesophagus involved, and evidence of dysplasia. Endoscopic surveillence for dysplasia is controversial and the evidence base is lacking. Current guidelines suggest that patients without dysplasia and in whom the length of involved oesophagus is <3cm should be considered for discharge from surveillance programmes, depending on the precise histology.8 For those with more extensive disease, endoscopic assessment every 2–3 years is appropriate. If high-grade dysplasia or intramural carcinoma is detected, endoscopic resection or mucosal radiofrequency abl ation (RFA) is recommended. If low-grade dysplasia is detected, it should be confi rmed by repeat examination after 6 months and by an independent pathologist, prior to RFA.9 Norman Rupert Barrett, 1903–1979 (British surgeon) Brugada syndrome Note right bundle branch block and the unusual morphology of the raised ST segments in V1–V3 (fi g 15.2; there are three ECG variants of this pattern). This predominently autosomal domi- nant condition causing faulty sodium channels predis poses to fatal arrhythmias (eg vent ricular fi br illation), typically in young males (eg trig- gered by a fever).10 It is preventable by implant- ing a defi
