Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


testosterone is now known to have the urodynamic benefi ts he anticipated, at least in men with hypogonadism.23 Like many brilliant men, he had a cruel streak, backing clitoridectomy for preven- t ing blindness and other imaginary complic ations of ‘masturbatory melan cholia’. Had he not been blinded by 19th-century ideas about female sexuality, could he have found a marvellous use for his concoctions, for 21st-century ‘hypoa ctive sexual desire disorder’? Possibly, but only if he relied on placebo responses.24,25 Poisoning your boss In 1931, Buerger’s disease caused gangrene in the toes of Harvey Cushing (p224)— the most cantankerous (and greatest) neurosurgeon ever. He had to be wheeled to the operating theatre to carry on his brilliant art (and to continue terrifying his assistants).26 He had to retire partially, whereupon his colleagues presented him with a magnifi cent silver cigarette box, containing 2000 cigarettes (to which he was addicted)—one for each brain tumour he had removed during his long career, so verifying the truth that although we owe everything to our teachers, we must eventually kill them to move out from under their shadow.1 Why bother studying rare diseases? The Liberski imperative... For centuries, kuru was no bigger than a man’s hand; a cloud barely visible on our horizon; a rare disease in cannibals beyond the Pacifi c. But meticulous work on kuru led to knowledge of prion diseases before the 1990s epidemic of VCJD. If in the 1950s, Gajdusek and Zigas had not been intrigued as to why kuru aff ected women and children more than men (their strange neural diet was the culprit), the discovery of vCJD would have been delayed, as no surveillance would have been in place. Neural tissue might still be in our food chain, with dreadful consequences. But further than this, the notion of ‘protein-misfolding diseases’2 would have been delayed by decades. So this is the lesson: let curiosity fl ourish. This is Liberski’s imperative.27 So now let’s scan our horizon for other intriguing clouds. 1 Der Vogel kämpft sich aus dem Ei. Das Ei ist die Welt. Wer geboren werden will, muss eine Welt zerstören. The bird struggles out of the egg. The egg is the world. Whoever will be born, must fi rst destroy a world. (Hermann Hesse. Demian; 1917.) 2 Cystic fi brosis (misfolded CFTR protein), Marfan’s (misfolded fi brillin),28 Fabry (misfolded -galactosidase), Gaucher’s (misfolded -glucocerebrosidase), retinitis pigmentosa 3 (misfolded rhodopsin);
