Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Usually severe Often mild Respiratory failure ~30%, from cervical myelitis Rare MRI head Usually normal Many periventricular white- matter lesions MRI cord lesions Longitudinal, central Multiple, small, peripheral CSF oligoclonal bands Absent Present Permanent disability Unusual, and attack-related In late progressive disease Other autoimmunities In ≤50% (eg Sjögren’s) Uncommon Diagnostic criteria for Devic’s Optic neuritis, myelitis, and ≥2 out of 3 of: •MRI evidence of a continuous cord lesion for ≥3 segments. •Brain MRI at onset non- diagnostic for MS. •NMO-IgG (anti-AQP4) serum or CSF positivity (poorer prognosis). NB: CNS involvement beyond the optic nerves and cord is compatible with NMO. Fig 15.3 Dupuytren’s contracture of the 5th fi nger. Note scar from previous surgery to the index fi nger. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 669999 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 semordnys suomynopE nerve damage, so tendon refl exes are paradoxically depressed (diff erential diagnosis 700 p446). There is also dorsal column degeneration, with loss of positional and vibration sense. Pes cavus and scoliosis occur. Cardiomyopathy may cause CCF. Typical age at death: ~50yrs. : There is no cure. Treat CCF, arrhythmias, and DM. Nikolaus Friedreich, 1825–1882 (German neurologist) Froin’s syndrome  CSF protein + xanthochromia with normal cell count—a sign of blockage in spinal CSF fl ow (eg from a spinal tumour). Georges Froin, 1874–1932 (French physician) Gardner’s syndrome A dominant variant of familial adenomatous polyposis, caused by mutations in the APC gene (5q21). There are multiple colon polyps (which inevitably become malignant; p520),37 benign bone osteomas, epidermal cysts, dermoid tumours, fi bromas, and neurofi bromas. Fundoscopy reveals black spots (congenital hypertrophy of retinal pigment epithelium); this helps pre-symptomatic detection. Presentation: Can present from 2–70yrs with colonic (eg bloody diar- rhoea) or extracolonic symptoms. Prophylactic surgery (eg proctocolectomy) is the only curative treatment. Endoscopic polypectomy with long-term celecoxib therapy has been used to postpone prophylactic colectomy.38 Eldon J Gardner, 1909–1989 (US physician) Gélineau’s syndrome (Narcolepsy.) The patient, usually a young man, succumbs to irresistible attacks of inappropriate sleep ± vivid hypnogogic hallucinations, cataplexy (sudden hypotonia), and sleep paralysis (paralysis of speech and move- ment, while fully alert, at sleep onset or on waking). Hypothesis: Mutations lead to loss of hypothalamic hypocretin-containing neurons, via autoimmune des truction.39 95% are +ve for HLA DR2. : Stimulants (eg methylphenidate) may cause depend- ence ± psychosis. Modafi nil may be better. SE: anxiety, aggression, dry mouth, eupho- ria, insomnia, BP, dyskinesia, ALP. Jean-Baptiste-Édouard Gélineau, 1828–1906 (French physician) Gerstmann’s syndrome A
