Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


purple papules due to intradermal bleeding), often over buttocks and extensor surfaces, typically aff ecting young . There may be glo- merulonephritis (p310), arthritis, and abdominal pain (± intussusception), which may mimic an ‘acute abdomen’. : Mostly supportive. Eduard H Henoch, 1820–1910 (German paediatrician); Johann L Schönlein, 1793–1864 (German physician) Horner’s syndrome A triad of 1 miosis (pupil constriction, fi g 15.4) 2 partial ptosis (drooping upper eyelid) + apparent enophthalmos (sunken eye) 3 anhidrosis (ip- silateral loss of sweating). Due to interruption of the face’s sympathetic supply, eg at the brainstem (demyelination, vascular disease), cord (syringom yelia), thoracic outlet (Pancoast’s tumour, p708), or on the sympathetic’s trip on the internal carotid artery into the skull (fi g 15.6), and orbit. Johann Friedrich Horner, 1831–1886 (Swiss ophthalmologist) Huntington’s disease Incurable, progressive, autosomal dominant, neurodegenera- tive disorder presenting in middle age, often with prodromal phase of mild symptoms (irritability, depression, incoordination). Progresses to chorea, dementia ± fi ts & death (within ~15yrs of diagnosis). Pathology: Atrophy and neuronal loss of striatum and cortex. Genetic basis: Expansion of CAG repeat on Chr. 4. : (p87.) No treatment pre- vents progression. Counselling for patient and family.46 George Huntington, 1850–1916 (US physician) Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome Congenital, bilateral, autosomal recessive, sensorineural deafness, and long QT interval (p96, hence syncope, VT, torsades, ± sud- den death—50% by age 15 if untreated). KCNQ1 or KCNE1 gene mutation causes K+ chan- nelopathy. : -blocker, pacemaker, ICD, cochlear implants.47 Anton Jervell, 1901–1987; Fred Lange-Nielsen, 1919–1989 (Norwegian physicians) Kaposi’s sarcoma (KS) A spindle-cell tumour derived from capillary endotheli al cells, caused by human herpes virus 8 (=Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpes virus KSHV). It presents as purple papules (½–1cm) or plaques on skin (fi g 15.7) and mucosa (look in mouth, but any organ). It metastasizes to nodes. There are four types: 1 Clas- sic, a rare disease of the elderly. 2 Endemic, a disease of children documented prior to HIV. 3 Iatrogenic KS due to immunosuppression, eg organ transplant recipients. 4 AIDS-associated KS. Usually presents with low CD4 count and can indicate failure of HAART (p402). However ⅓ presents in HIV with near normal CD4 counts and an undetectable viral load. Initiation of HAART with rapid immune system constitution can precipitate KS. Lung KS may present in HI V +ve men and women as dyspnoea and haemoptysis. Bowel KS may cause nausea, abdominal pain. Rare sites: CNS, larynx, eye, glands,
