Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


: ≈1.5:1; at-risk organs are liver, lung, spleen, marrow. Pulmonary disease presents with pneumothorax or pulmonary hypertension. CXR/CT: nodules and cysts + honeycombing in upper and middle zones. : Biopsy (skin, lung). : Local excision, ster- oids, vinblastine ± etoposide if severe.49 OHCS p644. Paul Langerhans, 1847–1888 (German pathologist) Leriche’s syndrome Absent femoral pulse, claudication/wasting of the buttock, a pale cold leg, and erectile dysfunction from aorto-iliac occlusive dise ase, eg a saddle embolus at the aortic bifurcation. Surgery may help. René Leriche, 1879–1955 (French surgeon) Löffl er’s eosinophilic endocarditis Restrictive cardiomyopathy + eosinophilia (eg 120 ≈ 109/L). It may be an early stage of tropical endomyocardial fi brosis (and overlaps with hypereosinophilic syndrome, p330) but is distinct from eosinophilic leuk aemia. Signs: Heart failure (75%) ± mitral regurgitation (49%) ± heart block. : Suppress the eosin ophilia (prednisolone ± hydroxycarbamide), and then treat with anti-heart failure medication. Wilhelm Löffl er, 1887–1972 (Swiss physician) Löffl er’s syndrome (Pulmonary eosinophilia.) An allergic infi ltration of the lungs by eosinophils. Allergens include: Ascaris lumbricoides, Trichinella spiralis, Fasciola hep atica, Strongyloides, Ankylostoma, Toxocara, Clonorchis sinensis, sulfonam- ides, hydralazine, and nitrofurantoin. Often symptomless with incidental CXR (diff use fan-shaped shadows), or cough, fever, eosinophilia (in ~20%) & larval migrans (p433). : Eradicate cause. Steroids (if idiopathic). Wilhelm Löffl er, 1887–1972 (Swiss physician) Lown–Ganong–Levine syndrome A pre-excitation syndrome, similar to Wolf–Par- kinson–White (WPW, p133), characterized by a short PR interval (<0.12sec), a normal QRS complex (as opposed to the -waves of WPW), and risk of supraventricular tachy- cardia (but not AF/fl utter). The cause is not completely understood, but may be due to paranodal fi bres that bypass all or part of the atrioventricular node. The patient may complain of intermittent palpitations.50 Bernard Lown, b1921 (US cardiologist); William F Ganong, 1924–2007 (US physiologist); Samuel A Levine, 1891–1966 (US cardiologist) McArdle’s glycogen storage disease (type V) Absence of muscle phosphorylase enzyme with resulting inability to convert glycogen into glucose (eg R50X mutation of PYGM gene; autosomal recessive). Fatigue & crises of cramps ± hyperthermia. Rhab- domyolysis/myoglobinuria follow exercise. Tests: CK. Muscle biopsy is diagnostic (necrosis and atrophy). : Mod erate aerobic exercise helps (by utilizing alternative fuel substrates).51 Avoid heavy exertion and statins. Sucrose pre-exercise improves performance, as does a carbohydrate-rich diet. Low-dose creatine and ramipril (only if D/D ACE phenotype) may be of minimal benefi t.52 Brian McArdle, 1911–2002 (British paediatrician) Mallory–Weiss tear Persistent vomiting/retching
