Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


leading to destruc- tion with wedging of vertebrae. Lesions in the thoracic spine often lead to kyphosis. Abscess formation in the lumbar spine may track down to the psoas muscle, and erode through the skin. : Anti-TB drugs (p394). Sir Percival Pott, 1714–1788 (British surgeon) Prinzmetal (variant) angin a Angina from coronary artery spasm, which may lead to MI, ventricular arrhythmias or sudden death. Severe chest pain occurs without physical exertion. Triggers include hyperventilation, cocaine and tobacco use. ECG: ST elevation. : Establish the diagnosis. GTN treats angina. Use Ca2+-channel blockers (p114) and long-acting nitrates as prophylaxis. Myron Prinzmetal, 1908–1987 (US cardiologist) Raynaud’s syndrome This is peripheral digital ischaemia due to paroxysmal va- sospasm, precipitated by cold or emotion. Fingers or toes ache and change colour: pale (ischaemia) blue (deoxygenation) red (reactive hyperaemia). It may be idiopathic (Raynaud’s disease—prevalence: 3–20%; : >1:1) or have an underlying cause (Raynaud’s phenomenon; fi g 15.16). Tests: Exclude an underlying cause (see BOX ‘Conditions in which Raynaud’s phenomenon may be exhibited’). : Keep warm (eg hand warmers); stop smoking.4 Nifedipine 5–20mg/8h PO helps, as may evening prim- rose oil, sildenafi l, and epoprostenol (for severe attacks/digital gangrene). Relapse is common. Chemical or surgical (lumbar or digital) sympathectomy may help in those with severe disease. AG Maurice Raynaud, 1834–1881 (French physician) __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 770088 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 semordnys suomynopE Prinzmetal angina and vascular hyperreactivity 709 Coronary spasm causes Prinzmetal angina and also contributes to coronary heart disease in general, eg acute coronary syndrome (esp. in Japan). Coronary spasm can be induced by ergonovine, acetylcholine, and methacholine (the former is used diagnostically).5 These cause vasodilation by endothelium-derived nitric oxide when vascular endothelium is functioning normally, whereas they cause vasocon- striction if the endothelium is damaged. In the light of these facts, patients with coronary spasm are thought to have a disturbance in endothelial function as well as local hyperreactivity of the coronary arteries. If full anti-anginal therapy does not reduce symptoms, stenting or intrac oronary radiation (20Gy brachytherapy) to vasospastic segments may be tried. Prognosis is good (especially if non-smoker, no past MI, and no diabetes; progress to infarc- tion is quite rare);61 -blockers and large doses of aspirin are contraindicated. Prinzmetal angina is associated with vascular hyperreactivity/vasospastic dis- orders such as Raynaud’s phenomenon and migraine. It is also associated with circle of Willis occlusion from intimal thickening (moyamoya disease). Fig 15.13 Paget’s disease of the breast. Fig
