Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


virus or from protease inhibitors. Metabolic: K+; Mg2+; Ca2+; starvation; hypothyroidism; hypothermia. Toxic: Organophosphates. Anti-arrhythmic drugs: Quinidine; amiodarone; procainamide; sotalol. Antimicrobials: Erythromycin; levofl oxacin; pentamidine; halofantrine. Antihistamines: Terfenadine; astemizole. Motility drugs: Domperidone. Psychoactive drugs: Haloperidol; risperidone; tricyclics; SSRIs. Connective tissue diseases: Anti-Ro/SSA antibodies (p552). Herbalism: Ask about Chinese folk remedies (may contain unknown amounts of arsenic). Cocaine, quinine, and artemisinins (and other antimalarials) are exam- ples of herbalism-derived products that can prolong the QT interval. Fig 15.17 Sister Mary Joseph nodule. Reproduced from Postgraduate Medical Journal, 'Sister Joseph nodule', J E Clague, 78(917), 174, 2002 with permission from BMJ Publishing Group Ltd. Fig 15.18 Stevens–Johnson syndrome. Reproduced from Emberger et al, Stevens–Johnson syndrome associated with anti-malarial prophy- laxis. Clinical Infectious Diseases (2003) 37:1, with permission from Oxford University Press. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 771111 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 semordnys suomynopE Takayasu’s arteritis (Aortic arch syndrome; pulseless disease.) Rare outside of 712 Japan, this systemic vasculitis aff ects the aorta and its major branches. Granuloma- tous infl ammation causes stenosis, thrombosis, and aneurysms. It often aff ects wom- en aged 20–40yrs. Symptoms depend on the arteries involved. The aortic arch is often aff ected, with cerebral, ophthalmological, and upper limb symptoms, eg dizziness, visual changes, weak arm pulses. Systemic features are common—eg fever, weight loss, and malaise. BP is often a feature, due to renal artery stenosis. Complications include aortic valve regurgitation, aortic aneurysm and dissection; ischaemic stroke (BP and thrombus); and ischaemic heart disease. Diagnosis: ESR and CRP; MRI/PET allows earlier diagnosis than standard angiography. : Prednisolone (1mg/kg/d PO). Methotrexate or cyclophosphamide have been used in resistant cases. BP control is essential to risk of stroke. Angioplasty ± stenting, or bypass surgery is performed for critical stenosis. Prognosis: ~95% survival at 15 years. Mikito Takayasu, 1860–1938 (Japanese ophthalmologist) Tietze’s syndrome (Idiopathic costochondritis.) Localized pain/tenderness at the costosternal junction, enhanced by motion, coughing, or sneezing. The 2nd rib is most often aff ected. The diagnostic key is localized tenderness which is marked (fl inches on prodding). Treatment: Simple analgesia, eg NSAIDS. Its importance is that it is a benign cause of what at fi rst seems to be alarming, eg cardiac pain. In lengthy ill- ness, local steroid injections may be used. Alexander Tietze, 1864–1927 (German surgeon) Todd’s palsy Transient neurological defi cit (paresis) after a seizure. There may be face, arm, or leg weakness, aphasia, or gaze palsy, lasting from ~30min–36h. The aetiology is unclear.
