Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


surgeon) Todd’s palsy Transient neurological defi cit (paresis) after a seizure. There may be face, arm, or leg weakness, aphasia, or gaze palsy, lasting from ~30min–36h. The aetiology is unclear. Robert Bentley Todd, 1809–1860 (Irish-born physician) Vincent’s angina (Necrotizing ulcerative gingivitis.) Mouth infection with ulcera- tive gingivitis from Borrelia vincentii (a spirochaete) + fusiform bacilli, often aff ecting young  smokers with poor oral hygiene. Try amoxicillin 500mg/8h and metronida- zole 400mg/8h PO, + chlorhex idine mouthwash. Jean Hyacinthe Vincent, 1862–1950 (French physician) Von Hippel–Lindau syndrome A dominant germline mutation of a tumour sup- pressor gene. It predisposes to bilateral renal cysts and clear cell renal carcinoma (p320), retinal & cerebellar haemangioblastoma, and phaeochromocytoma. See fi gs 15.19, 15.20. It may present with visual impairment or cerebellar signs (eg unilateral ataxia). Eugen von Hippel, 1867–1939 (German ophthalmologist); Arvid Lindau, 1892–1958 (Swedish pathologist) Von Willebrand’s disease (VWD) Von Willebrand’s factor (vWF) has three roles in clotting: 1 To bring platelets into contact with exposed subendothelium. 2 To make platelets bind to each other. 3 To bind to factor VIII, protecting it from destruction in the circulation. There are >22 types of vWD; the commonest are: Type I: (60–80%) Levels of of vWF. Symptoms are mild. Autosomal dominant. Type II: (20–30%) Abnormal vWF, with lack of high-molecular-weight multimers. Usu- ally autosomal dominant inheritance. Bleeding tendency varies. There are 4 subtypes. Type III: (1–5%) Undetectable vWF levels (autosomal recessive with gene deletions). vWF antigen is lacking and there is factor VIII. Symptoms can be severe. Signs are of a platelet-type disorder (p344): bruising, epistaxis, menorrhagia, bleeding post-tooth extraction. Tests: APTT, bleeding time, factor VIIIC (clotting activity), vWF Ag; INR and platelets. : Get expert help. Desmopressin is used in mild bleeding, vWF-containing factor VIII concentrate for surgery or major bleeds. Avoid NSAIDS. Erik Adolf von Willebrand, 1870–1949 (Finnish physician) Wallenberg’s lateral medullary syndrome This relatively common syndrome comprises lesions to multiple CNS nuclei, caused by posterior or inferior cerebellar artery occlusion leading to brainstem infarction (fi g 15.21). Features: • Dysphagia, dys arthria (IX and X nuclei). • Vertigo, nausea, vomiting, nystagmus (vestibular nu- cleus). • Ipsilateral ataxia (inferior cerebellar peduncle). • Ipsilateral Horner’s syn- drome (descending sympathetic fi bres). • Loss of pain and temperature sensation on the ipsilateral face (V nucleus) and contralateral limbs (spinothalamic tract). There is no limb weakness as the pyramidal tracts are unaff ected. In the rarer
