Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


granulomatous infl ammation and vasculitis of small and medium vessels. It has a predilection for the upper respiratory tract, lungs, and kidneys. Features: Upper airways disease is common, with nasal obstruction, ulcers, epistaxis, or destruction of the nasal septum causing a characteristic ‘saddle-nose’ deformity.6 Sinusitis is often a feature. Re- nal disease causes rapidly progressive glome rulo nephritis with crescent formation, proteinuria, or haematuria. Pulmonary involvement may cause cough, haemoptysis (severe if pulmonary haemorrhage), or pleuritis. There may also be skin purpura or nodules, peripheral neuropathy, mononeuritis multiplex, arthritis/arthralgia, or ocu- lar involvement, eg keratitis, conjunctivitis, scleritis, episcleritis, uveitis. Tests: CANCA directed against PR3 is most specifi c and raised in the majority of patients (p553). Some patients express PANCA specifi c for MPO. ESR/CRP. Urinalysis should be per- formed to look for proteinuria or haematuria. If these are present, consider a renal biopsy. CXR may show nodules ± fl uff y infi ltrates of pulmonary haemorrhage. CT may reveal diff use alveolar haemorrhage. Atypical cells from cytology of sputum/BAL can be confused with bronchial carcinoma.66 Treatment: Depends on the extent of disease. Severe disease (eg biopsy-proven renal disease) should be treated with cor- ticosteroids and cyclophosphamide (or rituximab) to induce remission. Azathioprine and methotrexate are usually used as maintenance. Indications for plasma exchange include patients presenting with severe renal disease (eg creatinine >500μmol/L) and those with pulmonary haemorrhage. Co-trimoxazole should be given as prophylaxis against Pneumocystis jirovecii and staphylococcal colonization. Friedrich Wegener, 1907–1990 (German pathologist) Wernicke’s encephalopathy Thiamine (vitamin B1) defi ciency with a classical triad of 1 confusion 2 ataxia and 3 ophthalmoplegia (nystagmus, lateral rectus, or conjugate gaze palsies). There is inadequate dietary intake, GI absorption, and impaired utilization of thiamine resulting in focal areas of brain damage, including periaqueductal punctate haemorrhages (mechanism unclear). Always consider this diagnosis in alcoholics: it may also present with memory disturbance, hypotension, hypothermia, or reduced consciousness.67 Recognized causes: Chronic alcoholism, eating disorders, malnutrition, prolonged vomiting, eg with chemotherapy, GI malig- nancy, or hyperemesis gravidarum. Diagnosis: Primarily clinical. Red cell transketo- lase activity is decreased (rarely done). Treatment: Urgent replacement to prevent irreversible Korsakoff ’s syndrome (p704). Give thiamine (Pabrinex®), 2 pairs of high- potency ampoules IV/IM/8h over 30min for 2d, then 1 pair OD for a further 5d. Oral supplementation (100mg OD) should continue until no longer ‘at risk’ (+ give other B vitamins). Anaphylaxis is rare. If there is coexisting
