Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


usually occurs. George Hoyt Whipple, 1878–1976 (US pathologist) Zellweger syndrome (Cerebrohepatorenal syndrome.) A rare recessive disorder characterized by absent peroxisomes (intracellular organelles required for many cel- lular activities including lipid metabolism). The syndrome has a similar molecular ba- sis to infantile Refsum’s syndrome, and although more severe, exhibits comparable biochemical abnormalities (p710). Clinical features include craniofacial abnormali- ties, severe hypotonia and mental retardation, glaucoma, cataracts, hepatomegaly, and renal cysts. A number of causative PEX gene mutations have been identifi ed. Life expectancy is usually a few months only. Hans Zellweger, 1909–1990 (US paediatrician) Zollinger–Ellison syndrome This is the association of peptic ulcers with a gastrin- secreting adenoma (gastrinoma). Gastrin excites excessive gastric acid production, which may produce multiple ulcers in the duodenum and stomach. The adenoma is usually found in the pancreas, although it may arise in the stomach or duodenum. Most cases are sporadic; 20% are associated with multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 1 (MEN1, p223). 60% are malignant; metastases are found in local lymph nodes and the liver. Symptoms: Include abdominal pain and dyspepsia, from the ulcer(s), and chronic diarrhoea due to inactivation of pancreatic enzymes (also causes steator- rhoea) and damage to intestinal mucosa. Incidence: ~0.1% of patients with peptic ulcer disease. Suspect in those with multiple peptic ulcers, ulcers distal to the duo- denum, or a family history of peptic ulcers (or of islet cell, pituitary, or parathyroid adenomas). Tests: (fi g 15.23) Fasting serum gastrin level (>1000pg/mL). Measure three fasting levels on diff erent days. Hypoc hlorhydria (reduced acid production, eg in chronic atrophic gastritis) should be excluded as this also causes a raised gastrin level: gastric pH should be <2. The secretin stimulation test is useful in suspected cases with only mildly raised gastrin levels (100–1000pg/mL). The adenoma is often small and diffi cult to image; a combination of somatostatin receptor scintigraphy, endoscopic ultrasound, and CT is used to localize and stage the adenoma. OGD evalu- ates gastric/duodenal ulceration. : High-dose proton pump inhibitors, eg omepra- zole: start with 60mg/d and adjust according to response. Measuring intragastric pH helps determine the best dose (aim to keep pH at 2–7). All gastrinomas have malig- nant potential—and surgery is better sooner than later (with lymph node clearance generally recommended if >2cm in size). Surgery may be avoided in MEN1, as adeno- mas are often multiple, and metastatic disease is rare. If well-diff erentiated (G1 and G2) somatostatin
