Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


eff ects from doses associated with nuclear explosions are likely unreli- able) but even with strict guidelines we still have a tendency to over-exposure in medical practice. Perhaps the best advice is to be certain of the importance of every dose of radiation that you sanction, and mindful of the comparative doses involved (see table 16.1). The responsibility lies with us not to rely too heavily on radiology. Don’t request examinations to comfort patients (or appease their consultants), to replace im- ages already acquired elsewhere (or lost) simply to avoid medico-legal issues, or when the result will not aff ect management. To give an idea of relative doses, a CT of the abdomen and pelvis gives a typical eff ective dose of 500 times as much radiation as a CXR. This important factor also tells us about the preference of ultrasound over CT when investigating abdominal and pelvic complaints such as acute appendicitis, especially given the youthful demographics of this diagnosis. Unwitting exposure of the unborn fetus to radiation is inexcusable at any stage of gestation—unless the mother’s life is in immediate danger—and it is the respon- sibility of the referring clinician, as well as the radiographer and the radiologist, to ensure that this is avoided. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 771199 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygoloidaR 720 The art of the request One of the most nerve-wracking moments that you can encounter as a recently qualifi ed doctor is having to request an investigation from a seasoned consultant radiologist. What information do you need to give? How much? Who do you ask? Put yourself on the other side: what does the radiologist need to know to decide who needs what imaging and when? Keep the following in mind when requesting (never ordering!) an investigation: Patient details Get the patient’s name right! Include hospital number and date of birth on all requests. Clinical details Think of your clinical question, what answer are you hoping radiol- ogy will provide? It can: • Confi rm a suspected diagnosis. • ‘Exclude’ something important (though remember that exclusion is never 100%). • Defi ne the extent of a disease. • Monitor the progress of a disease.  Don’t forget to mention pertinent facts that may change the way the investigation is carried out: an agitated or confused patient may need sedation prior to an MRI of their head. A CT scan on a patient with an acutely raised creatinine may
