Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


is carried out: an agitated or confused patient may need sedation prior to an MRI of their head. A CT scan on a patient with an acutely raised creatinine may need to be done without contrast medium. Insertion of a drain on a patient with deranged clotting may need to wait while this is corrected. Include recent creatinine, Hb, and clotting on the form if appropriate. Don’t forget to mention anticoagulants, eg war- farin, LMWH, and aspirin for intervention requests. Investigation details What scan do you think is required, and how soon do you need it? Diff erent clinical questions require diff erent procedures. If you think the patient has a collection, would you like them to drain it? Always state whether in- tervention is required (eg US abdo ± drain insertion). Remember that the radiologist ultimately decides what imaging or procedure they undertake based on the informa- tion you have provided. Tips • Know your patient well, but keep your request brief and accurate. • Know the clinical question and how the answer will change your management. • Look up previous imaging before you go; asking for a CT on a patient who had one yesterday makes you look foolish and will not go down well. • If in doubt, or if the investigation is very urgent, go down to the department in per- son. Regard this as an important opportunity: involving a radiologist will result in the best selection of imaging technique for your clinical question, will help expedite urgent requests, and should be of educational value for you. If your request is turned down Don’t be afraid to (politely) ask why. If you or your team still feel it is warranted, look back at the request; did you miss a relevant piece of information that would change the mind of the radiologist? If you still draw a blank, try speaking to a radiologist who specializes in that particular technique. Many teams have clinical radiology meetings; think about approaching someone who appreciates why you are asking that particular question. Alternatively, go back to your team; speak to your senior, who may have a better understanding of why the investigation is needed and be able to convey this to the radiologist. Remember that there is a patient at the heart of this, and you are their advocate. If the results of an investigation will change their management then explain
