Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


the radiologist. Remember that there is a patient at the heart of this, and you are their advocate. If the results of an investigation will change their management then explain this to the radiologist. Moreover, don’t forget to explain it to your patient. Being whisked off to the department for investigation and intervention can be particularly terrifying if you aren’t expecting it. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 772200 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygoloidaR Interpreting an image 721 You won’t always be able to get an immediate radiologist’s interpretation so it is important to know how to review an image. First make sure the image you are looking at is of your patient. Check its date. And remember: • Practice makes perfect—always look at the image before checking the report, learning how to distinguish normal from abnormal. • Understand how the scan is done—this makes interpretation easier and helps you appreciate which scan will give the answer you need. It also gives practical clues to the result—eg a routine CXR is performed in the postero-anterior (PA) direction (the source posterior to the patient to minimize the cardiac shadow). • Use a systematic approach—so that you don’t miss subtleties. • Understand your anatomy—virtually all investigations yield a 2D image from a 3D structure. An understanding of anatomical relationships of the area in ques- tion will help reconstruct the images in your mind. • Orientation—for axial cross-sectional imaging this is as if you are looking up at the supine patient from the feet. For images with non-conventional orienta- tions (eg MRCP) look on the image for clue markings, or rely on your knowledge of anatomy—it can be tricky to visualize oblique sections! • Remember the patient—an investigation is only one part of the clinical work-up, don’t rely solely on the investigation result for your management decisions. Go back to see the patient after looking at the investigation and reading the radiolo- gist’s report: you might notice something that you didn’t before. Presenting an image Everyone has their own method for presenting, and the right way is your own way. As long as you cover everything systematically—because we all get ‘hot-seat amnesia’ at some point—the particulars will take care of themselves. Continue to polish your own method and remember a few extra tips for when an image is presented expectantly by your consultant/examiner and the fl oor is yours. A brief silence with a thoughtful expression as you analyse the
