Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


few extra tips for when an image is presented expectantly by your consultant/examiner and the fl oor is yours. A brief silence with a thoughtful expression as you analyse the image is fi ne, then: • State the written details: name, date of birth, where and how the imaging was taken. Look for clues: weighting of an MRI, a ‘+ c’ indicating that contrast medium has been used, the phase of the investigation (arterial/venous/portal), or even the name of the organ printed on an ultrasound. • State the type, mode, and technical quality of investigation—not always easy! Going through this list also gives you a bit of thinking time. Then: • Start with life-threatening or very obvious abnormalities. Then be systematic: • Is the patient’s position adequate? Any lines, leads, or tubes? Note their position. • Just like the bedside clues in a physical examination, there are clues in radiology examinations. Note oxygen masks, ECG leads, venous access, infusion apparatus, and invasive devices. Identifying what they are also helps you to look through what may otherwise appear to be a cluttered mess. • Note any abnormalities and try to contextualize these with whatever you al- ready know of the patient. The abnormality may be hiding in plain sight, but if struggling, step back and note any asymmetry or areas that just ‘look diff erent’. • With cross-sectional imaging, scan through adjacent sections noting the anato- my of one organ system or structure at a time (this may mean going up and down through a CT abdomen multiple times). • Giving a diff erential diagnosis is good practice, as not all fi ndings are diagnostic. • If there is additional clinical information that would help you to make a diagno- sis, don’t be afraid to ask. After all, we treat patients and not images! Remember: •X-ray=radiodensity (lucency/opacity). •CT=attenuation. •US=echogenicity. •MRI=signal intensity. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 772211 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygoloidaR 722 Chest X-ray—part 1 Images are usually taken on inspiration with the X-ray source behind the patient (postero-anterior, PA). Mobile images may be antero-posterior (AP, fi g 16.6), magnify- ing heart size. If supine, distribution of air and fl uid in lungs and pleural cavities is altered and the diaphragm is elevated. Acclimatize yourself to the four cardinal elements of the chest radiograph, memo- rably (albeit slightly inaccurately) termed bone, air, fat, and ‘water’/soft tissue. Each has its own radiographic density. A border is only
