Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


the four cardinal elements of the chest radiograph, memo- rably (albeit slightly inaccurately) termed bone, air, fat, and ‘water’/soft tissue. Each has its own radiographic density. A border is only seen at an interface of two densities, eg heart (soft tissue) and lung (air); this ‘silhouette’ is lost if air in the lung is replaced by consolidation (‘water’). The silhouette sign localizes pathology (eg middle lobe pneumonia or collapse causing loss of clarity of the right heart border, fi g 16.2). When interpreting a CXR use a systematic approach that works for you, eg: Technical quality • Rotation: The sternal ends of the clavicles should symmetrically overlie the trans- verse processes of the 4th or 5th thoracic vertebrae. A rotated image can alter the position of structures, eg rotation to the right projects the aortic arch vessels over the right upper zone, appearing as though there is a mass. • Inspiration: There should be 5 to 7 ribs visible anteriorly (or 10 posteriorly). Hy- perinfl ation can be abnormal, eg COPD. Poor inspiration can mimic cardiomegaly, as the heart is usually pulled down (hence elongated) with inspiration, and crowding of vessels at the lung bases can mimic consolidation or collapse. This is common in patients who are acutely unwell, particularly those in pain or unconscious. Take care in interpreting these images. • Exposure: An under-exposed image will be too white and an over-exposed image will be too black. Both cause a loss of defi nition and quality although some com- pensation can be made with standard viewing software. • Position: The entire lung margin should be visible. Trachea Normally central or just to the right. Deviated by collapse (towards the le- sion), expansion (away from the lesion), or patient rotation. Mediastinum May be: Widened by mediastinal fat; retrosternal thyroid; aortic aneurysm/unfolding; lymph node enlargement (sarcoidosis, lymphoma, metastases, TB); tumour (thymoma, teratoma); cysts (bronchogenic, pericardial); paravertebral mass (TB). Shifted towards a collapsed lung or away from processes that add vol- ume (eg a large mass or a tension pneumothorax). There are three bulges normally visible on the left border of the mediastinum that help identify pathology if abnormal. From superior to inferior they are: 1 Aortic knuckle. 2 Pulmonary outfl ow tract. 3 Left ventricle. Hila The left hilum is higher than the right or at the same level (not lower); they should be the same size and density. The hila
