Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


radiation dose equivalent to 50 CXRS. Indica- tions for AXR with acute abdominal symptoms: • Suspicion of obstruction (or intussusception, eg in paediatrics). • Acute fl are of infl ammatory bowel disease (eg to confi rm/exclude megacolon). • Renal colic with known renal stones (if fi rst presentation, CT KUB is better). • Ingestion of a sharp or poisonous foreign body (eg lithium battery). Bowel gas pattern is best assessed on supine images and free intraperitoneal gas (signifying perforation) is best seen on an erect CXR (fi g 13.26, p607). Gas patterns Look for: an abnormal quantity of gas in the stomach, small intestine, or colon. Decide whether you are looking at small or large bowel (fi g 16.8; table 16.3). Small bowel diameter is normally ~2.5cm, the colon ~5cm, the caecum up to 10cm. Di- lated small bowel is seen in obstruction and paralytic ileus. Dilated large bowel (6cm) is seen in both these, and also in ‘toxic dilatation’, and, in the elderly, in benign hypoto- nicity. Grossly dilated segments of bowel (coff ee bean sign) are seen in sigmoid and caecal volvulae—fi g 13.28c, p611. Loss of normal mucosal folds and bowel wall thicken- ing are seen in infl ammatory colitis (eg IBD)—fi g 16.9. ‘Thumb-printing’ is protrusion of thickened mural folds into the lumen, seen in large bowel ischaemia and colitis. Table 16.3 Radiological gas patterns in the bowel Small bowel Large bowel Ileus • Smaller calibre • Larger calibre • Both small and • Central; multiple loops • Peripheral large bowel visible • Valvuli conniventes: • Semi-lunar folds:* don’t go • There is no clear folds that go from wall to wall, all all the way across the lu- transition point the way across the lumen; more men, but may appear to do that corresponds regular and fi ner than haustra so if viewed from an angle to an obstructing lesion • Grey (contains air and fl uid) • Blacker (contains gas)† *Semi-lunar folds (plicae semilunares) lie in between adjacent haustra. †The ascending colon contains liquid faeces, but the descending colon contains faecal pellets (scybala). Gas outside the lumen You must explain any gas outside the lumen of the gut. It could be: 1 Pneumoperitoneum; signs on the supine AXR include: gas on both sides of the bowel wall (Rigler’s sign), a triangle of gas in the RUQ trapped beneath the falci- form ligament, and a
