Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


on the supine AXR include: gas on both sides of the bowel wall (Rigler’s sign), a triangle of gas in the RUQ trapped beneath the falci- form ligament, and a circle of gas beneath the anterior abdominal wall. Seen with bowel perforation but also after laparoscopic surgery. 2 Gas in the urinary tract—eg in the bladder from a fi stula. 3 Gas in the biliary tree (see next paragraph), or rarely 4 Intramural gas, found in bowel necrosis. Biliary tree Any stones: ~10% visible on plain AXR. Any gas: (Pneumobilia.) Caused by: •post-ERCP/sphincterotomy •post-surgery (eg Whipple’s) •recent stone passage •anaerobic cholangitis (rare) •gallbladder–bowel fi stula: gallstone migrates directly into the bowel (Rigler’s triad is seen in 25%: pneumobilia, small bowel obstruction, an ectopic gallstone). Calcifi cation: (‘Porcelain gallbladder’.) Chronic infl ammation from gallstones (associated with gallbladder cancer). Urinary tract Check for calculi (visible in 90% of cases)1 and normal anatomy: Kidneys: Length equivalent to 2½–3½ vertebral bodies, slope inferolaterally. Right is lower than the left (‘pushed down’ by the liver). Their outline can usually be seen due to surrounding layer of perinephric fat. Ureters: Pass near the tips of the lumbar transverse processes, cross the sacroiliac joints, down to the ischial spines, and turn medially to join the bladder. Other soft tissues Look for size/position of: liver, spleen, and bladder. A big liver will push bowel to the left side of the abdomen. An enlarged spleen displaces bowel and stomach bubble to the right. A big bladder elevates these. Medical devices Double-J and biliary stents, nephrostomy and gastrostomy tubes, intrauterine devices, laparoscopic clips, and peritoneal dialysis catheters can be seen. Bones and joints Plain AXR is not ideal, but there may be important abnormalities. In the lumbar spine, look for scoliosis and degeneration (osteophytes, joint space narrowing) as well as bone metastases or sacroiliitis. 1 Don’t get confused by other calcifi cations—eg phleboliths: harmless calcifi cations found in the perivesical veins (rounded with a radiolucent centre). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 772288 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygoloidaR 729 Fig 16.8 Multiple dilated air-fi lled loops of large and small bowel. This pattern is seen in ileus. Courtesy of Norwich Radiology Department. Fig 16.9 Abdominal image showing toxic megacolon associated with ulcerative colitis, note colon wall thickening and loss of mucosal folds. Courtesy of Dr Edmund Godfrey. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 772299 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygoloidaR 730 Computed tomography (CT) Can give whole-body images in under one breath (thanks to continuous,
