Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


and loss of mucosal folds. Courtesy of Dr Edmund Godfrey. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 772299 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygoloidaR 730 Computed tomography (CT) Can give whole-body images in under one breath (thanks to continuous, helical data acquisition). Within a single slice (eg 0.5 or 5mm thick), CT records the attenuation (=loss of energy from, eg absorption or refl ection) of diff erent tissues to ionizing ra- diation and calculates a mean value for a given volume of tissue (a ‘voxel’). This value is represented in greyscale as a single point, called a pixel, in the fi nal 2D image (or 3D ‘reconstruction’—fi g 16.13). The greyscale of the pixel is measured on the Hounsfi eld scale (see fi g 16.10) relative to the attenuation of water, 0 Hounsfi eld units (HU), and air, Ω1000HU. The human eye and display systems have a limited greyscale range, so diff erent settings (levels and ‘windows’) are used to focus on diff erences in attenuation in ranges typical for tissues of diff erent density, eg bone or lung (fi g 16.11). CTS are responsible for up to 40% of iatrogenic radiation in high-use settings, which could account for ~1% of all cancers: always balance benefi ts of CT vs other modali- ties with less or no radiation (ultrasound; MRI), particularly in the young or in those with chronic disease likely to undergo multiple imaging investigations. Discuss with a radiologist—there are several technical aspects of imaging that can limit radiation dose whilst still providing clinically useful information. Imaging of choice for • Staging and monitoring most malignant disease. • Intracranial pathology, eg stroke, trauma, ICP, and space-occupying lesions. • Trauma. • Pre-operative assessment of complex masses. • Assessment of acute abdomen (fi gs 16.15, 16.16). NB ultrasound increasingly used (p736). • Following abdominal surgery. Contrast medium (p748) Enhance anatomical detail by use of a high- or low (water)-attenuating medium to fi ll the lumen of a structure. Give IV to image vascu- lar anatomy (fi g 16.12) and vascular structures (including highly perfused tumours). Images acquired at diff erent times (‘phases’) after injection will show the agent in arterial or venous structures or during ‘washout’ (=clearing). Perfusion CT maps cerebral blood fl ow by acquiring serial images after contrast administration then combines these into a colour-coded image of perfusion times (fi g 16.14). Ensure IV cannulae secure and suffi cient gauge to allow for rapid injection of agent as
