Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


AAA as well as elective repair of intact but enlarging aneurysms. The changing roles of surgeons and CT in the acutely unwell In the days when general surgeons did their rounds towards the end of an on-call day, there would be wards of patients with undiagnosed abdominal pain having ‘drip-and-suck’ regimens (IVI and NGT) while awaiting improvement or a change in their clinical condition that revealed the need for surgery. On opening up, the surgeon would try to deal with whatever pathology was found. With increased subspecialization and accurate emergency imaging (CT and US), patients are now matched to a team best equipped to deal with their condition. In this context, drip-and-suck is on the ebb, giving way to imaging, early intervention, rapid dis- charge, or onward referral. With increasing pressures to safeguard surgical beds for elective cases and on junior surgeons to polish their surgical logbooks in de- creased training hours, can come attempts to defl ect away from surgical teams the care of patients in whom imaging or clinical circumstances suggest no current requirement for an operation. But is this always appropriate? Do we expect on-call surgeons to be practitioners of medicine, assessing and managing patients with surgical pathology, even if a trip to the operating theatre is not currently called for, or simply technicians restricted to cutting? __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 773322 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygoloidaR 733 Fig 16.16 Triple-phase CT abdomen, cropped to show the pancreas. Top panel—unenhanced image, middle panel—arterial phase of contrast medium to look for pseudocysts and pa- renchymal enhancement, bottom panel—portal venous phase to look at veins. The history here was also central abdominal pain with a non-peritonitic abdomen. The CT shows an en- larged pancreatic head with fat stranding around the duodenopancreatic groove (‘groove pancreatitis’), and two small areas of fl uid attenuation posteriorly, likely to be pseudocysts. Top panel courtesy of Dr Edmund Godfrey. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 773333 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygoloidaR 734 Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 1 A large proportion of the human body is fat or water (~80%). 2 Fat and water contain a large number of hydrogen nuclei (unpaired protons). 3 The spin of a positively charged hydrogen nucleus gives it magnetic polarity. Thus… • Placing the human body in a magnetic fi eld aligns its hydrogen nuclei either with (parallel) or against (anti-parallel) the fi eld. • A radiofrequency (RF) pulse at the resonant frequency fl ips a few nuclei away from their
