Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


aligns its hydrogen nuclei either with (parallel) or against (anti-parallel) the fi eld. • A radiofrequency (RF) pulse at the resonant frequency fl ips a few nuclei away from their original alignment by an angle depending on the amount of energy they absorb. • When the RF pulse stops, the nuclei fl ip back (or relax) into their original alignment, emitting the energy (called an echo) that was absorbed from the RF pulse. • Measuring and plotting the energy of the returning signal according to location (provided the nuclei haven’t moved) gives a picture of fat, tissue, and water as distributed throughout the body. • The hydrogen nuclei in fl owing blood move after receiving the RF pulses. The echo is not detected, and so the vessel lumen appears black (fl ow void). Rather than radiodensity or attenuation, the correct descriptive terminology for the greyscale seen in MRI is signal intensity: high signal appears white and low signal black (see table 16.4). Weighting is a quality of MRI that is dependent on the time between the RF pulses (repetition time, TR) and the time between an RF pulse and the echo (echo time, TE). MR images are most commonly T1-weighted (good for visualizing anatomy) or T2-weighted (good for visualizing disease) but can also be a mixture of both, called proton density (PD) weighting. FLAIR sequences produce heavily T2-weighted images. A good way to determine the weighting of an MR image is to look for water—eg in the aqueous humour of the eye, CSF, or synovial fl uid (see table 16.4; fi g 16.17). Table 16.4 MRI sequence characteristics T1-weighted T2-weighted TR Short (<1000ms) Long (>2000ms) TE Short (<30ms) Long (>80ms) Low Water Bone signal Flowing Hb Flowing Hb Fresh Hb DeoxyHb Haemosiderin Haemosiderin Melanin High Bone marrow Water signal Fat Cholesterol Cholesterol Fresh Hb Gadolinium (p762) MetHb MetHb Fig 16.17 T1-weighted MRI of the hips. Normal Advantages MRI’s great bonus is that it adult bone marrow is high signal due to fat; note also low signal from urine in the bladder. does not involve ionizing radiation. It has Courtesy of Norwich Radiology Department no known long-term adverse eff ects. It is excellent for imaging soft tissues (water- and hence proton-dense) and is preferred over CT for musculoskeletal disorders and for many intracranial, head, and neck pa- thologies (fi gs 16.18–16.20). Multiplanar acquisition of images can provide multiple views and 3D
