Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


stead, it relies on properties of longitudinal sound waves. This has made it a popular and safe form of imaging with increasingly widespread applications. High-frequency sound waves (3–15MHz) are generated in the transducer (transmitter and receiver) by the vibrations of a piezo-electric quartz crystal as a voltage is applied. Passage of sound waves through tissue is aff ected by attenuation and refl ection. Attenuation disperses waves out of the receiver’s range, but it is the waves refl ected back to the transducer that determine the image. Its quality depends on the diff erence in acoustic impedance between adjacent soft tissues. Processing With the help of software a real-time 2D image is made. During process- ing, an average attenuation value is assumed throughout the tissue examined, so if a higher-than-average attenuation structure is in the superfi cial tissues (eg fi brous tissue, calcifi cation, or gas), then everything deep to it will be in a low intensity (black) acoustic shadow. If a lower-than-average attenuation object (eg fl uid-fi lled/ cystic structure) is in the superfi cial tissues then everything deep to it will be high intensity (white) or enhanced. If a tissue interface is strongly disparate, eg gas in the intestine, then all the waves are refl ected back, making it impossible to image beyond it. See also fi gs 16.21–16.24. Modes B: (Brightness) is the most common, giving 2D slices that map the diff erent magnitudes of echo in greyscale. M: (Movement) traces the movement of structures within the line of the sound beam. It is used in imaging, eg heart valves (p110). Duplex ultrasonography (fl ow and morphology) By combining Doppler eff ects (shifts in wavelength caused by movement of a source or refl ecting surface) with B-mode ultrasound technology, fl ow characteristics of blood can be inferred (fi g 16.21). This is extremely useful in arterial and venous studies, and echocardiography. Advantages Portable; fast; non-ionizing; cheap; real-time; can be used with interven- tion; can enter organs, eg rectum, vagina, bowel. Endoscopic US can be used to stage and biopsy lung and GI tract cancers, eg stomach, pancreas, and also image the heart = transoesophageal echocardiogram or TOE, p110. Disadvantages Operator dependent—interoperator variability high; poor quality if patient is obese; interference from bone, bowel gas, calculi, or superimposed organs can limit depth and quality of imaging. Fig 16.21 A normal Duplex US of the right common carotid artery with
