Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


dis- ease). 99mTc-dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) scanning (fi g 16.28) is the gold standard for evaluation of renal scarring that occurs, eg in refl ux nephropathy. Positron emission tomography (PET) One of the key investigations in malignancy, but also has a wide range of other uses. If the tracer Fig 16.28 DMS showing relative renal chosen is 18F-fl uorodeoxyglucose (FDG), a short function of each kidney. half-life glucose analogue, it becomes concen- Courtesy of Norwich Radiology Department. trated in metabolically active tissues. FDG de- cays rapidly to produce a positron that, after travelling a few millimetres through tissue, annihilates with an electron to produce a pair of high-energy photons (gamma rays), which PET detects. Normal high uptake of FDG occurs in brain, liver, kidney, blad- der, larynx, and lymphoid tissue of pharynx and must be considered when assess- ing images. Neoplasms have high uptake of FDG with hotspots suggesting primary disease or metastases. Since infl ammatory lesions will also show high uptake, there is a risk of false-positive results (eg sarcoid, TB); diagnosis must be confi rmed with histology of suspicious lesions. PET allows staging of many solid organ malignancies (lung, melanoma, oesophageal) as well as lymphomas, and is particularly useful for planning of radiotherapy and surgery for both primary disease and metastases. PET can also be used to image occult sources of infection. PET can be combined with CT or MRI to provide high-quality images combining anatomy with physiology. A range of alternative tracers are now entering clinical use with radiotracers conjugated to other tissue-specifi c substrates (eg 11C-labelled metomidate to detect tumors of adrenocortical origin, somatostatin tracers in neuroendocrine tumours, and amyloid tracers in Alzheimer’s disease). Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) Similar to PET but rather than using positron emission, it uses a radioisotope-labelled molecule as per con- ventional nuclear imaging, but with two gamma cameras for detection. The images produced are of lower resolution than PET but the isotopes used are longer lived and more easily available. Examples include myocardial perfusion scanning (p741). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 773399 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygoloidaR 740 Cardiovascular imaging CT Cardiac CT: Modern CT scanners can acquire images with suffi cient speed and resolution to image coronary arteries and exclude signifi cant disease with a nega- tive predictive value of 97–99%. It can also visualize CABG patency, pro- vide coronary artery Ca2+ scoring (a risk factor for coronary artery disease, p117), demonstrate car- diac anatomy
