Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


nega- tive predictive value of 97–99%. It can also visualize CABG patency, pro- vide coronary artery Ca2+ scoring (a risk factor for coronary artery disease, p117), demonstrate car- diac anatomy including congenital anomalies, and estimate ventricular function. Vascular CT: Has become routine in emergency assessment of suspected dissections, ruptured aneurysms, and arterial and venous thromboses (fi g 16.29). CT angiog- raphy has overtaken invasive angi- ography in the assessment of many Fig 16.29 CT angiogram showing type A (ascend- conditions such as stable angina ing) aortic dissection with haemopericardium. and renal artery stenosis. Courtesy of Dr C Cousins. Catheter angiography Wherever intervention may be required, contrast studies such as angiography provide both image clarity and the possibility of proceeding to intervention, eg angioplasty or stenting of vessels, endovascular repair of an- eurysms, clipping/coiling of aneurysms (see p746). Remember that these have a high burden of both radiation and contrast medium, so check renal function before requesting. Complications include those of arterial puncture (bleeding, infection, thrombosis, dissection, pseudoaneurysm formation) plus cholesterol emboli, throm- boemboli, and vasospasm. MRI Cardiac MRI using ECG-gating to acquire the imaging data and relate it to the position in the cardiac cycle (best when the patient is in sinus rhythm) can reduce movement artefact and lead to excellent resolution images for functional assess- ment. This, coupled with a lack of radiation, makes it ideal for the assessment of a wide range of structural and functional heart diseases. Flow velocities can be measured and, because the fl ow is proportional to the pressure diff erences, degrees of stenosis and regurgitation across heart valves can be calculated. Myocardial in- farction, perfusion, and viability can also be imaged with the use of IV gadolinium contrast (p748). Vascular MRI is used to limit radiation exposure where multiple investigations may be required over a long time period, eg follow-up of intracranial aneurysm coiling, aortic root size in a young patient with Marfan’s syndrome (p706), or Takayasu’s arteritis (p712). Ultrasound Non-invasive, relatively low cost, and with no radiation, US is excellent for assessing the heart and vasculature particularly in acute settings where the test can be performed at the bedside. Cardiac US (=echocardiography) evaluates myocardial and valvular anatomy and function (p110). The use of exercise or pharma- cological agents for ‘stress echocardiography’ can permit more detailed functional assessment. Vascular US Doppler ultrasonography is widely used for detection of thrombotic disease (eg DVT p578,
