Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


vessel disease such as in diabetes; CT and coronary angi- ography do not show small vessel disease well. Courtesy of Dr C Cousins. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 774411 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygoloidaR 742 Gastrointestinal imaging Ultrasound Widely used for imaging all intra-abdominal organs, including an emerging role in small bowel imaging (though overlying bowel gas can cast acoustic shadows). US is the 1st-line imaging choice for abnormal LFTS, jaundice, hepatomeg- aly, renal dysfunction, and abdominal masses. Ensure the patient is ‘nil by mouth’ for 4 hours beforehand (aids gallbladder fi lling). Pelvic US needs a full bladder (con- sider clamping the catheter if appropriate). US may also guide diagnostic biopsy and therapeutic aspiration of cysts or collections. CT plays an important role in the investigation of acute abdominal pain (see pp730–3). It is unparalleled in the detection of free gas and intra-abdominal collections, and allows good visualization of the colon and retroperitoneal areas. Oral or IV contrast medium enhances defi nition (p730). The big disadvantage is the radiation dose. CT colonography (CTC; fi g 16.31) uses rectal air or CO 2 insuffl ation, usually coupled with an oral ‘stool tagging’ agent to visualize the colonic mucosa in those unfi t for endo- scopic evaluation or in whom endoscopic evaluation has failed (eg in a stenosing tu- mour, where it can be used to assess the proximal colon and allow assessment of liver and nodal metastases at the same time). A negative test can be regarded as defi nitive but if polyps or masses are seen then patients will usually require a colonoscopy. Wireless capsule endoscopy: See p248. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) This gives excellent soft tissue imaging, giving it an important role in imaging the liver, biliary system, pancreas, and pancreatic duct (MRCP—magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography; fi g 16.32). As well as assessing potential malignant disease, MRCP is the imaging modality of choice for detection of common bile duct stones that can be missed on US. MRI performed after fl uid loading of the small bowel (fl uid delivered orally=MRI enterography; fl uid delivered via nasodu- odenal tube=MRI enteroclysis) permits assessment of small bowel infl ammation (eg Crohn’s) and lesions that can be challenging to reach with conventional endoscopy. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP; fi g 16.33) Indica- tions: No longer routinely used for diagnosis, it still has a signifi cant therapeutic role: sphincterotomy for common bile duct stones; stenting of benign or malignant strictures and
