Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


collections (trauma, post-biopsy). • Renal perfusion (assessment of renovascular disease: Doppler US of renal arteries). • Transplanted kidneys (collections, obstruction, perfusion). Lower urinary tract: • Bladder volume: useful in assessment of the need to catheterize (see p640) or for assessment of adequacy of bladder emptying (post-micturition residual volume). • Prostate: transrectal ultrasound enables US-guided biopsy of focal lesions. NB: pros- tate size does not correlate with symptoms. Other: • Ovarian cysts, size, infections (pyosalpinx), uterine fi broids and other masses. • Testicular masses, hydrocele, varicocele. Advantages: Fast; cheap; independent of renal function; no IV contrast or radiation risk. Disadvantages: Intraluminal masses (transitional cell ca) in the upper tracts may not be seen; not a functional study; only suggests obstruction if there is dilata- tion of the collecting system (95% of obstructed kidneys) and so can miss obstruc- tion from, eg retroperitoneal fi brosis. CT (fi g 16.36) First choice in renal colic. Performed without intravenous contrast so safe in renal impairment; such unenhanced images miss <2% of stones, but can show other pathologies. With IV contrast, CT can delineate masses (cystic or solid, contrast enhancement, calcifi cation, local/distant extension, renal vein involvement); assess renal trauma (presence of two kidneys; haemorrhage; devascularization; laceration; urine leak); and show retroperitoneal lesions. CT has all but replaced intravenous urography and the radiation dose is similar. Plain abdominal X-ray Can be used to look at the kidneys, the paths of the ureters, and bladder. However, in practice it is only useful for monitoring known renal calculi. Contrast studies Retrograde pyelography/ureterograms are good at showing pelvi-calyceal, ureteric anatomy, and transitional cell carcinomas (TCCS). Contrast medium is injected via a ureteric catheter. With the advent of cystoscopy, allowing immediate intervention, these are rarely done in isolation. However, contrast me- dium is routinely used in cystoscopic placement of retrograde stents for obstruction. Percutaneous nephrostomy. Used in obstruction to decompress the renal pelvis, which is punctured under local anaesthetic with imaging guidance. Images are ob- tained following contrast injection (antegrade pyelogram). A nephrostomy tube is then placed to allow decompression, sometimes followed by an antegrade stent if there is no easily treatable cause of obstruction. Renal arteriography (fi g 16.37) Therapeutic indications: angioplasty; stenting; em- bolization (bleeding tumour, trauma, AV malformation). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) Soft tissue resolution can help clarify equivo- cal CT fi ndings. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) helps image renal artery anatomy/stenosis (fi g 16.38) and
