Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


tissue. • In old haematomas, Hb breaks down and loses attenuation, so a subacute subdural haematoma at 2wks may be of the same attenuation as adjacent brain. • A chronic subdural haematoma will be of relatively low attenuation. CT is often used in acute stroke to exclude haemorrhage (eg pre-antiplatelets) and with perfusion scanning (fi g 16.14) to aid management decisions regarding throm- bolysis. The actual area of infarction/ischaemia may not show up for a day or so, and will be low-attenuation cytotoxic oedema (aff ecting both white and grey matter— look for loss of grey matter defi nition). Tumours and abscesses appear similar, eg a ring-enhancing mass, surrounding vasogenic oedema, and mass eff ect. Vasogenic oedema (from leaky capillaries) is extracellular and spreads through the white matter (grey matter spared). Mass ef- fect causes compression of the sulci and ipsilateral ventricles, and may also cause herniation (subfalcine, transtentorial, or tonsillar). See p483 (and also fi g 16.40). Another indication for CT is acute, severe headache, eg suggestive of subarachnoid haemorrhage (p478). An unenhanced CT may show fresh blood, hydrocephalus or ICP, any of which could make LP unsafe. CT angiography gives excellent mapping of the cerebral circulation (fi g 16.41), and can be done directly after unenhanced CT, looking for an aneurysm if the unenhanced CT shows subarachnoid haemorrhage. MRI (MRI in stroke: fi g 10.19, p481) The chief image sequences are: • T1-weighted images: Give good anatomical detail to which the T2 image can be compared. Fat is brightest (signal intensity); other tissues are darker to varying degrees. Flowing blood is low signal. Gadolinium contrast (p748) usually results in an increase in signal intensity. See table 16.4. • T2-weighted images: These provide the best detection of most lesions as they usu- ally contain some oedema or fl uid and therefore appear white (eg fi g 16.20, p735). Fat and fl uid appear brightest. Flowing blood is again low signal. Magnetic resonance angiography maps carotid, vertebrobasilar, and cerebral ar- terial circulations (and sinuses, veins). Functional MRI can image local blood fl ow. Catheter angiography (fi g 16.42) Less commonly used since the advent of MRA and CT angiography and perfusion techniques, though it has the advantage of allowing immediate therapy—eg coil embolization of saccular aneurysms. Radionuclide imaging (p738) PET is mostly used as a research tool in dementia, but perfusion scintigraphy scan be used in the assessment of Alzheimer’s
