Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


these patients (see p315). Minor reactions in- clude nausea, vomiting, and a sensation of warmth. More severe reactions in- clude urticaria, bronchospasm, angioedema, and low BP (1:250); theoretical risk of death for 1:150 000. Metformin should be withheld for 48h after IV contrast administration because of the risk of lactic acidosis. Barium sulfate Used in examination of the GI tract. Water-insoluble particles of 0.6–1.4μm diameter are mixed with large organic molecules such as pectin and gum to promote good fl ow, mucosal adherence, and high density in thin layers. Complications: Chemical pneumonitis or peritonitis. Never administer if you sus- pect perforated viscus. Water-soluble, non-ionic, iodine-based contrast agents Used instead of barium where there is a risk of peritoneal contamination (eg fi stula, megacolon, ulceration, diverticulitis, bowel anastomosis, acute intestinal haemorrhage). Gas- trograffi n should not be used. Contains iodine so establish allergy history and thyroid status. Air In CT colonography, air (or CO 2) is insuffl ated as a negative contrast medium after barium administration to enhance mucosal defi nition. Water can also be used PO and PR to outline the lumen of the gut. Gadolinium A lanthanide series element with paramagnetic qualities that is ad- ministered intravenously (as gadolinium-DTPA) to enhance the contrast of certain structures in MRI. It works by reducing the time to relaxation (TR) of hydrogen nuclei in its proximity and appears as high signal on T1-weighted scans. It does not cross the blood–brain barrier so is useful in enhancing isointense extra-axial tumours such as meningiomas. It can also highlight areas where the blood–brain barrier has broken down secondary to infl ammatory or neoplastic processes. It is renally excreted: check eGFR: if signifi cantly reduced, gadolinium is contrain- dicated, as up to 30% may develop progressive nephrogenic systemic fi brosis/ nephrogenic fi brosing dermopathy which causes generalized fi brosis which im- pairs movement and breathing—and which may be fatal. Aberrations in calcium- phosphate metabolism and erythropoietin treatment seem to increase risk. Other adverse reactions include headache, nausea, and local irritation at the site of in- jection, with idiosyncratic reaction reported in less than 1%. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 774488 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygoloidaR Imaging the acutely unwell patient 749 Asking yourself ‘Does this investigation need to be done right now?’ will often yield the answer ‘No!’, yet there are a few occasions when early imaging can provide vital diagnostic information and infl uence the prognosis for a patient: • Acute
