Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


would be a mistake note the large right-sided tension pneumothorax needing immediate decompression! Lungs: The right lung fi eld is too black compared to the left, the right hemidiaphragm is depressed, and the right lung is seen collapsed against the mediastinum. Mediastinum: Left-shifted, obstructing venous return—so cardiac output, and a threat to life. Is it being pushed or pulled? Check hila, bones, and soft tis- sues. Since the right lung is collapsed and mediastinum shifted to left this suggests right ten- sion pneumothorax. Needle thoracocentesis decompression and a chest drain are needed now. Courtesy of Dr Edmund Godfrey. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 774499 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0088 ygoloidaR 17 Reference intervals, etc. Statistics in medicine 751 • The normal (Gaussian) distribution curve. This bell-shaped graph (fi g 17.2) is the theoretical basis of reference intervals, and explains ‘lab error’—why some tests repeated at close intervals may reveal slightly diff erent values. Hb for example, has a lab error of ~5g/L. This emphasizes the importance of the clinical picture in decision-making, rather than treating the numbers alone: don’t subject anaemic patients to blood transfusions unless they have a clinical need. See p324. • Range is the lowest and highest value of all observations in the set being studied. • Arithmetic mean is the sum of all observations ÷ by the number of observations. • Median is the middle value (eg 9 data points are higher and 9 are lower). If their distribution is Normal, then the median coincides with the mean. • Standard deviation (SD) is the square root of the variance (the average of the square of the distance of each data point from the mean). When the distribution of the observations is Normal, 95% of observations are located in the interval ‘mean ± 1.96 SD’. This is the basis of the reference interval. • Standard error of the mean gives an estimate of the reliability of the mean of a sample representing the mean of the population from which the sample was taken, and is the SD of the sample ÷ by the square root of the number of observations in the sample. Thus the larger the sample size, the smaller the standard error of the mean—the basis of ensuring that clinical trial evidence is based upon enough observations to be confi dent that diff erences seen between groups do not occur by chance alone. Fig 17.2 Normal (Gaussian) distribution curve. Reproduced from Bhopal,
