Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


vaginal examinations on the living without washing their hands. Noticing this, Semmelweis introduced the practice of washing hands with chloride of lime and cut death rates to that of the midwives’ patients. Despite the evidence he amassed, Semmelweis’s theory was rejected by his contemporaries, a rejection which undoubtedly contributed to his psychiatric distress, eventual commitment to an asylum, and ultimate death from the blows of his guards. It would take another 20 years and countless deaths before Lister published his landmark work on the use of carbolic acid in surgery. Take a minute to wash your hands thoroughly before undertaking any procedure. This prerequisite will not only reduce infection risk for your patients, but give you a moment for mindfulness: focus on the hot water running over your hands, breathe deeply, and for a while forget about your list of jobs. Perhaps spare Dr Kolletschka a thought. You may fi nd that the subsequent procedure goes more smoothly than anticipated. Training and the business of medicine As medical training has evolved in an environment where patient safety is para- mount, the old adage of ‘see one, do one, teach one’ is no longer relevant. ‘Just having a go’ when you aren’t confi dent can have devastating consequences for the patient, and also for you and your future. This creates tensions for training, but these are not insurmountable. Seek out opportunities to learn practical procedures, ideally in a controlled, elective setting, so that your fi rst attempt isn’t a life-or-death emergency attempt—time spent in theatres or ICU will pay dividends in this regard. Many sen- iors will be happy to make time to teach if you contact them in advance—let them know you are interested and leave your bleep. Even in an emergency setting, it is still wiser to seek help rather than attempting an urgent procedure for the fi rst time. We thank our Specialist Reader, Dr Andrew Johnston, for his contribution to this chapter. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 775588 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 Nasogastric tubes 759 These tubes are passed into the stomach via the nose. Large (eg 16F) are good for drainage but can be uncomfortable for patients. Small (eg 10F) are more comfort- able for feeding but can be diffi cult to aspirate and are poor for drainage. Used: • To decompress the stomach/gastrointestinal tract especially when there is ob- struction, eg gastric outfl ow obstruction, ileus, intestinal obstruction. • For gastric
