Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


aspirate and are poor for drainage. Used: • To decompress the stomach/gastrointestinal tract especially when there is ob- struction, eg gastric outfl ow obstruction, ileus, intestinal obstruction. • For gastric lavage. • To administer feed/drugs, especially in critically ill patients or those with dys- phagia, eg motor neuron disease, post CVA. Passing the tube Nurses are experts and will ask you (who may never have passed one) to do so only when they fail—so the fi rst question to ask is: ‘Have you asked the charge-nurse from the ward next door?’ • Wear non-sterile gloves and an apron to protect both you and the patient. • Explain the procedure. Take a new, cool (hence less fl exible) tube. Have a cup of water to hand. Lubricate well with aqueous gel. • Use the tube, by holding it against the patient’s head, to estimate the length required to get from the nostril to the back of the throat. • Place lubricated tube in nostril with its natural curve promoting passage down, rather than up. The right nostril is often easier than the left but, if feasible, ask the patient for their preference. Advance directly backwards (not upwards). • When the tip is estimated to be entering the throat, rotate the tube by ~180° to discourage passage into the mouth. • Ask the patient to swallow a sip of water, and advance as they do, timing each push with a swallow. If this fails: Try the other nostril. • The tube has distance markings along it: the stomach is at ~35–40cm in adults, so advance > this distance, preferably 10 –20cm beyond. Tape securely to the nose. Confi rming position This is vital prior to commencing any treatment through the tube. Misplaced nasogastric tubes have led to a number of preventable deaths, and feeding via a misplaced tube is considered an NHS Never Event (a serious, largely preventable patient safety incident that should never occur if the available preventative measures have been implemented). • Use pH paper to test that you are in the stomach: aspirated gastric contents are acid (pH ≤5.5) although antacids or PPIS may increase the pH. Small tubes can be diffi cult to aspirate, try withdrawing or advancing a few cm or turning the patient on the left side to help dip the tube in gastric contents. Aspirates should be >0.5mL and tested directly on unhandled pH paper.
