Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


a few cm or turning the patient on the left side to help dip the tube in gastric contents. Aspirates should be >0.5mL and tested directly on unhandled pH paper. Allow 10s for colour change to occur. • If the pH is >5.5 and the NGT is needed for drug or feed administration then the position must be checked radiologically. Request a CXR/abdo X-ray (tell the radi- ologist why you need it). Look for the radio-opaque line/tip (this can be hard to see, look below the diaphragm, but if in doubt, ask for help from the radiologist). • The ‘whoosh’ test is NOT an accepted method of testing for tube position. • Either spigot the tube, or allow to drain into a dependent catheter bag secured to clothing (zinc oxide tape around tube to form a fl ap, safety pin through fl ap). Do not pass a tube nasally if there is any suspicion of a facial fracture. Get senior help if the patient has recently had upper GI surgery—it is not good practice to push the tube through a fresh anastomosis. Complications •Pain, or, rarely: •Loss of electrolytes •Oesophagitis •Tracheal or duodenal intubation •Necrosis: retro- or nasopharyngeal •Stomach perforation. Weaning When planning removal of an NGT in situ for decompression or relief of obstruction, it is wise to wean it so that the patient manages well without it. Drainage should be <750mL/24 hours for successful weaning. • First it should be on free drainage with, eg, 4hrly aspirations. • Then spigot with 4hrly aspirations. • Then spigot only. If this is tolerated along with oral intake then it is probably safe to remove the tube; if not, then take a step backwards. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 775599 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 serudecorp lacitcarP 760 Placing IV cannulae Much of what we do is not evidence based; however, in more recent years, particularly in intensive care units, the rise of hospital-acquired infections and multidrug-resistant organisms has prompted a review of standard practice and a series of evidence-based interventions put together as a ‘care bundle’ to reduce hospital-acquired infections. The technique for placing a cannula is best shown at the bedside by an expert, but following these simple rules will signifi cantly reduce the risk of infection from the cannula. Preparation is key, remember the following before you start 1 Equipment: Set up a tray with cleaning swabs, gauze, cannulae (swallow your pride and take at
