Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


infection from the cannula. Preparation is key, remember the following before you start 1 Equipment: Set up a tray with cleaning swabs, gauze, cannulae (swallow your pride and take at least three of diff erent sizes, see table 18.1), dressings, 0.9% sa- line, 10mL syringe, needle-free adaptor (eg octopus with bionector), blood tubes if required, portable sharps bin  needlestick injuries do happen. 2 Patient: Have them lying down, explain procedure, obtain verbal consent, place tourniquet around arm, rest the arm below the heart to aid venous fi lling. 3 Site: Look for the best vein—it should be palpable; some of the best veins are not easily visible, some of the most visible collapse on insertion. Tapping gently helps. Never cannulate: AV fi stulae arms, limbs with lymphoedema. Avoid: Sites crossing a joint (if possible), the cephalic vein in a renal patient. 4 Consider: EMLA® cream, cold spray, or 1% lidocaine for children or those with needle phobia. EMLA® takes 45min to work, but can save you hassle later. Insertion care bundle 1 Aseptic technique. 2 Hand hygiene. 3 Apron + non-sterile gloves. 4 Skin prepara- tion—2% chorhexidine in 70% isopropyl alcohol (allow to dry for 30 seconds). Do not repalpate vein after cleaning unless wearing sterile gloves. 5 Dressing—sterile and transparent so that insertion site can be observed. After insertion 1 Take blood with syringe or adaptor. 2 Remove tourniquet. 3 Attach needle-free de- vice (if appropriate) and fl ush with 10mL 0.9% saline. 4 Apply dressing. 5 Let nursing staff know that cannula is in place and ready for use. 6 Document insertion according to local policy. 7 Write up appropriate fl uids or parenteral medication. When seeing your patient on the daily ward round (and to avoid being called to review or replace cannulae at 6pm) do a RAID1 assessment: consider if the drip is: Required—can the patient manage with oral medication/fl uids? Appropriate—should you consider a PICC, central line, long-term line, etc? Infected—any signs of infl ammation or infection? Remove if yes. Peripheral cannulae should be replaced every 72–96 hours. Dressed properly—many drips are replaced early because they have ‘fallen out’, or are kinked from poor dressings. Tissued or infected cannulae need replacing, either with another peripheral cannula, or with a longer-term access device, such as a PICC line. If you fail after three attempts Shocked patients need fl uid quickly: if you are having trouble
