Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


urgent indication for IV drugs/fl uids/blood—and all of the previously discussed measures have been tried, and have failed. Think of lonesome night shifts, over-run emergency departments, a disaster scene, war, or medicine in the fi eld. The following measures are not recommended for non-life-threatening scenarios:  Don’t worry. Have a good look again. Feet (avoid in diabetics)? Inside of the forearm? Upper arm?  Have you really exhausted all of your options for help from a colleague? Maybe the anaesthetist or ICU registrar is approachable—they do have remarkable skills.  Is the patient familiar with his/her own veins (eg previous IV drug abuser)?  If there is only a small amount of IV medication required and a small, short vein, you may be able to gain access with a carefully placed butterfl y needle that is taped down. Some drugs cannot be passed this way (eg amiodarone, K+).  The external jugular vein may become prominent when the patient is head down (Trendelenburg) by 5–10° (not in situations of fl uid overload, LVF, ICP). Only at- tempt cannulation of this vein if you are not going to jeopardize future central line insertion, and if you can clearly determine the surrounding anatomy.  In an arrest situation, the 2015 Advanced Life Support Guidelines recommend the intraosseous route in both adults and children if venous access is not pos- sible; access devices should be available within resuscitation settings (eg emer- gency department). Only do the following if you have had the appropriate training/experience:  In children, consider cannulating a scalp vein.  Central venous catheterization (p775). This may be just as hard in a profoundly hypovolaemic arrest patient, and a good knowledge of local anatomy and of the procedure (± ultrasound guidance) will be invaluable. If you don’t have an intraosseous access device, a cut down to the long saphen- ous vein may be attempted, in extremis, even if you have no prior experience (at this site you won’t kill by being ham-fi sted). Make a transverse incision 1–2cm anterior and superior to the medial malleolus. Free vein with forceps. Cannulate it under direct vision. Here, ‘fi rst do no harm’ is trumped by ‘nothing ventured, nothing gained’. Hopefully, it shouldn’t ever have to come to these measures, but one day… 1 Poiseuille’s law is a neat piece of physiology and worth remembering—it is applicable in some form to almost every system
