Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


have to come to these measures, but one day… 1 Poiseuille’s law is a neat piece of physiology and worth remembering—it is applicable in some form to almost every system in the body. Note that it is a 4th-power law: a small change in the radius makes a huge diff erence to fl ow. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 776611 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 serudecorp lacitcarP 762 Catheterizing bladders Urinary tract infections are the second commonest health care-associated infection, and urinary catheters are frequently to blame. Think, does the patient really need a catheter? If so, use the smallest you can and take out as soon as possible. Size (in French gauge): 12=small; 16=large; 20=very large (eg 3-way). Material Coat- ed latex catheters are soft and a good short-term option but unsuitable in true latex allergy. Silastic (silicone) catheters may be used long term, but cost more. Sil- ver alloy coating reduces infections. Shape Foley is typical (fi g 18.2); coudé (elbow) catheters have an angled tip to ease around prostates but are more risky; 3-way catheters are used in clot or debris retention and have an extra lumen for irrigation fl uid, attached to the irrigation set via an extra port on the distal end (fi g 18.3). Get urology advice before starting irrigation. Condom catheters are often preferred by patients (less discomfort) even though they may leak and fall off . Catheter problems • Infection: ~5% develop bacteraemia (most will have bacte- rial colonization, antibiotics may not be required unless systemically unwell—discuss with microbiology). A stat dose of, eg gentamicin 80mg is sometimes given pre- insertion despite a lack of evidence for benefi t. Check your local policy. • Bladder spasm: May be painful—try reducing the water in the balloon or an anticholinergic drug, eg oxybutynin. Per urethram Aseptic technique required. Indications • Relieve urinary retention. • Monitor urine output in critically ill pa- tients. • Collect uncontaminated urine for diagnosis.  It is contraindicated in ure- thral injury (eg pelvic fracture) and acute prostatitis. • Explain the procedure, and obtain verbal consent. Prepare a catheterization trolley: gloves, catheter, lidocaine jelly, cleaning solution, drape, kidney dish, gauze swabs, drainage bag, 10mL water and syringe, specimen container. • Lie the patient supine: women with knees fl exed and hips abducted with heels to- gether. Use a gloved hand to clean urethral meatus in a pubis-to-anus direction, hold- ing the labia apart with the other hand.
