Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


fl exed and hips abducted with heels to- gether. Use a gloved hand to clean urethral meatus in a pubis-to-anus direction, hold- ing the labia apart with the other hand. With uncircumcised men, retract the foreskin to clean the glans; use a gloved hand to hold the penis still. The hand used to hold the penis or labia should not touch the catheter. Place a sterile drape with a hole in the middle to help you maintain asepsis. Remember: left hand dirty, right hand clean. • Put sterile lidocaine 1–2% gel on the catheter tip and ≤10mL into the urethra (≤5mL if ). In men, lift and gently stretch the penis upwards to eliminate any urethral folds that may lead to false passage formation. • Use steady gentle pressure to advance the catheter, rotating slightly can help it slide in. Never force the catheter. Tilting the penis up towards the umbilicus while inserting may help negotiate the prostate. Insert to the hilt; wait until urine emerg- es before infl ating the balloon. Remember to check the balloon’s capacity before in- fl ation (written on the outer end). Collect a sterile specimen and attach a drainage bag. Pull the catheter back so that the balloon comes to rest at the bladder neck. • If you are having trouble getting past the prostate, try: more lubrication, a gentle twisting motion; a larger catheter; or call the urologists, who may use a guidewire. Remember to reposition the foreskin in uncircumcised men after the catheter is inserted to prevent oedema of the glans and paraphimos. Documentation: In the notes be sure to document the indication for catheterization, size of catheter, whether insertion was diffi cult or straightforward, any complica- tions, residual volume and colour of urine. It is good practice to document that the foreskin has been replaced. Sign with your name, date, and designation. Suprapubic catheterization: Sterile technique required Absolutely contraindi- cated unless there is a large bladder palpable or visible on ultrasound, because of the risk of bowel perforation. Be wary, particularly if there is a history of abdominal or pelvic surgery. Suprapubic catheter insertion is high risk and you should be trained before attempting it, speak to the urologists fi rst. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 776622 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 serudecorp lacitcarP Self-catheterization 763 This is a good, safe way of managing chronic retention from a neuropathic bladder (eg in multiple sclerosis, diabetic neuropathy, spinal tumour,
