Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


__OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 776622 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 serudecorp lacitcarP Self-catheterization 763 This is a good, safe way of managing chronic retention from a neuropathic bladder (eg in multiple sclerosis, diabetic neuropathy, spinal tumour, or trauma). Never consider a patient in diffi culties from a big residual volume to be too old, young, or disabled to learn. 5-yr-old children can learn the technique, and can have their lives transformed—so motivation may be excellent. There may be fewer UTIs as there is no residual urine—and less refl ux obstructive uropathy. Assessing suit- ability entails testing sacral dermatomes: a ‘numb bum’ implies sensation of a full bladder; higher sensory loss may mean catheterization will be painless. Get help from your continence adviser who will be in a position to teach the patient or carer that catheterizations must be gentle (the catheter is of a much smaller calibre), particularly if sensation is lacking, and must number >4/d (‘always keep your catheter with you; don’t wait for an urge before catheterizing’). See fi g 18.4. Fig 18.2 A size 14F latex Foley Fig 18.3 The external end of Fig 18.4 A size 10F catheter catheter with the balloon inf- a size 20F 3-way catheter. The for self-catheterization. They l ated via the topmost port of lowest port is for the bladder are usually smaller than the outer end (green). irrigation fl uid and the upper- indwell ing catheters, eg 10F © Dr Tom Turmezei (not to scale). most port (yellow) is for bal- comp ared to 14F. Note that this loon infl ation. catheter also has no balloon. © Dr Tom Turmezei (not to scale). © Dr Tom Turmezei (not to scale). ‘The catheter is not draining…’ You will be asked to check catheters that are not draining. Check the fl uid chart and the patient: • Previously good output, now anuric: Blocked catheter until proven otherwise. Was the urine clear previously or bloodstained? Consider fl ushing the catheter: with aseptic technique fl ush and withdraw 20mL of sterile 0.9% saline with a bladder syringe. This may get the fl ow going again. A 3-way catheter may be needed if there is clot or debris retention. If it blocks again, replace it. Repeated fl ushes lead to infection. • Slow decline in urine output over several hours: In a dehydrated/post-op pa- tient a fl uid challenge of 500mL STAT (250mL if cardiac comorbidity) may help, come back and
