Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


• Slow decline in urine output over several hours: In a dehydrated/post-op pa- tient a fl uid challenge of 500mL STAT (250mL if cardiac comorbidity) may help, come back and check the response in 30min. Check all other parameters (eg pulse, BP, CVP) and increase rate of background IV fl uids if appropriate. Acute kidney injury (p298): if urine output has tailed off and now stopped, the cause is often renal hypoperfusion (ie pre-renal failure), but consider other fac- tors, eg nephrotoxic drugs. • Catheter is bypassing: A condom catheter may be more appropriate. • Catheter has dislodged into the proximal (prostatic) urethra: Possible even if the balloon is fully infl ated. Consider this if a fl ush enters but cannot be with- drawn. If the patient still needs a catheter then replace it, consider a larger size. • The catheter has perforated the lower urinary tract on insertion and is not lying in the bladder or urethra: If suspected, call the urologists immediately. Remember: urine output should be >400mL in 24h or >0.5mL/kg/h (see p576). Trial without catheter (TWOC) When it is time to remove a catheter, the possibility of urinary retention must be considered. Remove the catheter fi rst thing one morning. If retention does occur, insert a long-term catheter (eg silicone), consider an -blocker (p642), and arrange urology TWOC clinic follow-up. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 776633 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 serudecorp lacitcarP 764 Draining ascites For patients with refractory or recurrent ascites that is symptomatic, it is possible to drain the ascites using a long pig-tail catheter. Paracentesis in such patients even in the presence of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis may be safe. Learn at the bedside from an expert. Contraindications (these are relative, not absolute) End-stage cirrhosis; co- agulopathy; hyponatraemia (126mmol/L); sepsis. The main complication of the procedure is severe hypovolaemia secondary to reaccumulation of the ascites, so intravascular replenishment with a plasma expander is required. For smaller vol- umes, eg less than 5L, 500mL of 5% human albumin or Gelofusine® would be suf- fi cient. For volumes over 5L, reasonable replacement would be 100mL 20% human albumin IV for each 1–3 litres of ascites drained (check your local policy). You may need to call the haematology lab to request this in advance. Procedure Requires sterile technique. • Ensure you have good IV access—eg 18G cannula in the antecubital fossa. • Explain the procedure including the risks of infection, bleeding, hyponatraemia, renal
