Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


advance. Procedure Requires sterile technique. • Ensure you have good IV access—eg 18G cannula in the antecubital fossa. • Explain the procedure including the risks of infection, bleeding, hyponatraemia, renal impairment, and damage to surrounding structures (such as liver, spleen, and bowel), and obtain consent from the patient. Serious complications occur in less than 1 in 1000 patients. Ask the patient to empty their bladder. • Examine the abdomen carefully, evaluating the ascites and checking for orga- nomegaly. Mark where you are going to enter. If in doubt, ask the radiology de- partment to ultrasound the abdomen and mark a spot for drainage. Approach from the left side unless previous local surgery/stoma prevents this—call a senior for support and advice if this is the case. • Prepare a tray with 2% chlorhexidine solution, sterile drapes, 1% lidocaine, sy- ringes, needles, sample bottles, and your drain. Clean the abdomen thoroughly and place sterile drapes, ensure you maintain sterile technique throughout. Infi l- trate the local anaesthetic. • Perform an ascitic tap (see p765) fi rst so that you know you are in the correct place: remove 20mL fl uid for MC&S. • Away from the patient, carefully thread the catheter over the (large and long) needle using the guide so that the pig-tail has been straightened out. Remove the guide. • With the left hand hold the needle ~2.5cm (1 inch) from the tip—this will stop it from advancing too far (and from performing an aortic biopsy). With the right hand, hold the other end. • Gently insert the needle perpendicular to the skin at the site of the ascitic tap up to your hold with your left hand—ascites should now drain easily. If necessary, advance the needle and catheter a short distance until good fl ow is achieved. • Advance the catheter over the needle with your left hand, keeping the needle in exactly the same place with your right hand. Do not re-advance the needle be- cause it will go through the curled pig-tail and do not withdraw it because you won’t be able to thread in the catheter. • When fully inserted, remove the needle, connect the catheter to a drainage bag (keep it below the level of the abdomen), and tape it down securely to the skin. • The patient should stay in bed as the ascites drains. • Document clearly in the notes the indication for
