Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


the abdomen), and tape it down securely to the skin. • The patient should stay in bed as the ascites drains. • Document clearly in the notes the indication for the procedure, that consent was obtained, clotting and U&ES checked pre-procedure, how much lidocaine was re- quired, how much fl uid was removed for investigations, and whether there were any complications to the procedure. • Replenish intravascular volume with human albumin (see ‘Contraindications’ ear- lier in topic). • Ask the nursing staff to remove the catheter after 6h or after a pre-determined volume has been drained (up to 20L can come off in 6h) and document this clear- ly in the medical notes. Drains are removed after 4–6h to prevent infection. • Check U&ES after the procedure and re-examine the patient. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 776644 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 serudecorp lacitcarP Diagnostic taps 765 If you are unsure whether a drain is needed, a diagnostic tap can be helpful. Whatever fl uid you are sampling, a green needle carries far less risk than a formal drain. It also allows you to decide whether a drain is required. Ascites may be sampled to give a cytological or bacterial diagnosis, eg to exclude spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP; p276). Before starting, know the patient’s platelets + clotting times. If they are abnormal, seek help before proceeding. • Place the patient fl at and tap out the ascites, marking a point where fl uid has been identifi ed, avoiding vessels, stomas, and scars (adhesions to the anterior abdominal wall). The left side may be safer—less chance of nicking liver (fi g 18.5). Fig 18.5 Always tap out the ascites, • Clean the skin. Infi ltrate some local anaes- but aim approximately for 5cm me- thetic, eg 1% lidocaine (see p573). dial to and superior to the anterior superior iliac spine. If in doubt, ask • Insert a 21G needle on a 20mL syringe into the for an ultrasound to mark the spot. skin and advance while aspirating until fl uid is withdrawn, try to obtain 60mL of fl uid. • Remove the needle, apply a sterile dressing. • Send fl uid to microbiology (15mL) for microscopy and culture, biochemistry (5mL for protein, see p192), and cytology (40mL). Call microbiology to forewarn them if urgent analysis of the specimen is required. Diagnostic aspiration of a pleural eff usion • If not yet done, a CXR may help evaluate the
