Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


microbiology to forewarn them if urgent analysis of the specimen is required. Diagnostic aspiration of a pleural eff usion • If not yet done, a CXR may help evaluate the side and size of the eff usion. • Ideally use US guidance at the bedside ( chance of successful aspirate and  chance of organ puncture). If this is unavailable, ask an ultrasonographer to mark a spot, or percuss the upper border of the pleural eff usion and choose a site 1 or 2 intercostal spaces below it (usually posteriorly or laterally). • Clean the area around the marked spot with 2% chlorhexidine solution. • Infi ltrate down to the pleura with 5–10mL of 1% lidocaine. • Attach a 21G needle to a syringe and insert it just above the upper border of the rib below the mark to avoid the neurovascular bundle (fi g 18.6). Aspirate whilst advancing the needle. Draw off 10–30mL of pleural fl uid. Send fl uid to the lab for chemistry (protein, glucose, pH, LDH); bacteriology (microscopy and culture, auramine stain, TB culture); cytology, and, if indicated, amylase and immunology (rheumatoid factor, antinuclear antibodies, complement). If you cannot obtain fl uid with a 21G needle, seek help. • If any cause for concern, arrange a repeat CXR. Fig 18.6 Safe approach to entering the pleura by the intercostal route. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 776655 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 serudecorp lacitcarP 766 Inserting a chest drain Indications • Pneumothorax (p814): ventilated; tension; persistent/recurrent despite aspiration (eg <24h after 1st aspiration); large 2nd spontaneous pneumothorax if >50yrs old. • Malignant pleural eff usion, empyema, or complicated parapneumonic eff usion. • Pleural eff usion compromising ventilation, eg in ICU patients. • Traumatic haemopneumothorax. • Post-operatively: eg thoracotomy; oesophagectomy; cardiothoracic surgery. Pleural eff usions are best drained under US guidance using a Seldinger tech- nique. This technique is also used for pneumathoraces (except in traumatic or post-operative situations) without US guidance; for this reason it is detailed here. Sterile procedure • Identify the point for drainage. In eff usions, this should be done with US, ideally under direct guidance or with a marked spot. For pneumothoraces, check the drainage point from CXR/CT/examination. • Preparation: trolley with dressing pack; 2% chlorhexidine; needles; 10mL syring- es; 1% lidocaine; scalpel; suture; Seldinger chest drain kit; underwater drainage bottle; connection tubes; sterile H2O; dressings. Incontinence pad under patient. • Choose insertion site: 4–6th intercostal space, anterior- to mid-axillary
