Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


1% lidocaine; scalpel; suture; Seldinger chest drain kit; underwater drainage bottle; connection tubes; sterile H2O; dressings. Incontinence pad under patient. • Choose insertion site: 4–6th intercostal space, anterior- to mid-axillary line—the ‘safe triangle’ (see BOX ‘The “safe triangle” for insertion’ and fi g 18.7). A more pos- terior approach, eg the 7th space posteriorly, may be required to drain a locu- lated eff usion (under direct US visualization) and occasionally the 2nd intercostal space in the mid-clavicular line may be used for apical pneumothoraces—how- ever, both approaches tend to be less comfortable. • Maintain sterile technique—clean and place sterile drapes. Scrub for insertion. • Prepare your underwater drain by fi lling the bottle to the marked line with ster- ile water. Ensure this is kept sterile until you need it. • Infi ltrate down to pleura with 10mL of 1% lidocaine and a 21G needle. Check that air/fl uid can be aspirated from the proposed insertion site; if not, do not proceed. • Attach the Seldinger needle to the syringe containing 1–2mL of sterile saline. The needle is bevelled and will direct the guidewire; in general advance bevel up for pneumothoraces, bevel down for eff usions. • Insert the needle gently, aspirating constantly. When fl uid/air is obtained in the syringe, stop, note insertion depth from the markings on the Seldinger needle. Remove syringe, thread the guidewire through the needle. Remove the needle and clamp the guidewire to the sterile drapes to ensure it does not move. Using the markings on the Seldinger needle, move the rubber stops on the dilators to the depth noted earlier, to prevent the dilator slipping in further than intended. • Make a nick in the skin where the wire enters, and slide the dilators over the wire sequentially from smallest to largest to enlarge the hole, keep gauze on hand. Slide the Seldinger drain over the wire into the pleural cavity. Remove the wire and attach a 3-way tap to the drain, then connect to the underwater drainage bottle. • Suture the drain in place using a drain stitch—make a stitch in the skin close to the drain site, tie this fairly loosely with a double knot. Then tie the suture to the drain. It is usually best to be shown this before attempting it for yourself. Dress the drain, and ensure it is well taped down. • Check that the drain is swinging
