Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


It is usually best to be shown this before attempting it for yourself. Dress the drain, and ensure it is well taped down. • Check that the drain is swinging (eff usion) or bubbling (pneumothorax) and ensure the water bottle remains below the level of the patient at all times. If the drain needs to be lifted above the patient, clamp it briefl y. You should never clamp chest drains inserted for pneumothoraces. Clamping for pleural eff usions can con- trol the rate of drainage and prevent expansion pulmonary oedema. • Request a CXR to check the position of the drain. Removal In pneumothorax: Consider when drain is no longer bubbling and CXR shows re-infl ation. Give analgesia beforehand, eg morphine. Smartly withdraw dur- ing expiration or Valsalva. There is no need to clamp the drain beforehand as reinser- tion is unlikely. In effusions: Generally the drain can be removed when drainage is <200mL/24h, but for cirrhotic hydrothoraces the chest drain is treated similarly to the ascitic drain (see p764) with HAS supplementation and removal at 4–6 hours. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 776666 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 serudecorp lacitcarP The ‘safe triangle’ for insertion of a chest drain 767 Fig 18.7 The safe ‘triangle’ is not re- ally a triangle, as the axilla cuts off the point of the triangle. Draw a line along the lateral border of pectoralis major, a line along the anterior border of latis- simus dorsi, and a line superior to the horizontal level of the nipple. The apex of the triangle is the axilla. Often chest drains are inserted directly under ultra- sound guidance, or with a pre-marked spot; however, in an emergency or for aspiration, the landmarks of the safe triangle are important to know. Complications • Thoracic or abdominal organ injury. • Lymphatic damage  chylothorax. • Damage to long thoracic nerve of Bell  wing scapula. • Rarely, arrhythmia. Watch out for: • Retrograde fl ow back into the chest. • Persistent bubbling—there may be a continual leak from the lung. • Blockage of the tube from clots or kinking—no swinging or bubbling. • Malposition—check position with CXR. Relieving a tension pneumothorax Symptoms Acute respiratory distress, chest pain, respiratory arrest. Signs Hypotension; distended neck veins; asymmetrical lung expansion; trachea and apex deviated away from side of reduced air entry and hyperresonance to percussion. There is no time for a CXR (but see fi g 16.43, p749). Aim
