Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


expansion; trachea and apex deviated away from side of reduced air entry and hyperresonance to percussion. There is no time for a CXR (but see fi g 16.43, p749). Aim To release air from the pleural space. In a tension pneumothorax, air is drawn into the intrapleural space with each breath, but cannot escape due to a valve-like eff ect of the tiny fl ap in the parietal pleura. The increasing pressure progressively embarrasses the heart and the other lung. 100% oxygen. Prodedure • Insert a large-bore IV cannula (eg Venfl on®) usually through the 2nd intercostal space in the midclavicular line or the ‘safe triangle’ for chest drain insertion (see BOX ‘The “safe triangle” for insertion’). Remove the stylet, allowing the trapped air to es- cape, usually with an audible hiss. This converts the tension pneumothorax to an open pneumothorax. Tape securely. • Don’t recover the cannula as tensioning will recur. • Proceed to formal chest drain insertion (see p766). Aspiration of a pneumothorax Identify the 2nd intercostal space in the midclavicular line (or 4–6th intercostal space in the midaxillary line) and infi ltrate with 1% lidocaine down to the pleura overlying the pneumothorax. • Insert a 16G cannula into the pleural space. Remove the needle and connect the cannula to a 3-way tap and a 50mL syringe. Aspirate up to 2.5L of air (50mL≈50). Stop if resistance is felt, or if the patient coughs excessively. • Request a CXR to confi rm resolution of the pneumothorax. If successful, consider discharging the patient and repeating the CXR after 24h to exclude recurrence, and again after 7–10d. Advise to avoid air travel for 6 weeks after a normal CXR. Diving should be permanently avoided. • If aspiration is unsuccessful (in a signifi cant, symptomatic pneumothorax), insert an intercostal drain (see p766). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 776677 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 serudecorp lacitcarP 768 Lumbar puncture (LP) Contraindications •Bleeding diathesis. •Cardiorespiratory compromise. •Infection at site of needle insertion. Most importantly:  ICP (suspect if very severe headache, level of consciousness with falling pulse, rising BP, vomiting, focal neurology, or pap- illoedema)—LP in these patients will cause coning, so unless it is a routine procedure, eg for known idiopathic intracranial hypertension, obtain a CT prior to LP. CT is not infallible, so be sure your indication for LP is strong. Method Explain to the patient what sampling CSF entails, why it is needed, that co- operation is
