Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


CT is not infallible, so be sure your indication for LP is strong. Method Explain to the patient what sampling CSF entails, why it is needed, that co- operation is vital, and that they can communicate with you at all stages. • Place the patient on his or her left side, with the back on the edge of the bed, fully fl exed (knees to chin). A pillow under the head and another between the knees may keep them more stable. • Landmarks: plane of iliac crests through the level of L 3/4 (see fi g 18.8). In adults, the spinal cord ends at the L 1/2 disc (fi g 18.9). Mark L 3/4 intervertebral space (or one space below, L 4/5), eg by a gentle indentation of a needle cap on the overlying skin (better than a ballpoint pen mark, which might be erased by the sterilizing fl uid). • Use aseptic technique (hat, mask, gloves, gown) and 2% chlorhexidine in 70% alco- hol to clean the skin, allow to dry and then place sterile drapes. • Open the spinal pack. Assemble the manometer and 3-way tap. Have three plain sterile tubes and one fl uoride tube (for glucose) ready. • Using a 25G (orange) needle, raise a bleb of local anaesthetic, then use a 21G (green) needle to infi ltrate deeper. • Wait 1min, then insert spinal needle (22G, stilette in place) perpendicular to the body, through your mark, aiming slightly up towards the umbilicus. Feel resistance of spinal ligaments, and then the dura, then a ‘give’ as the needle enters the suba- rachnoid space. NB: keep the bevel of the needle facing up, parallel with dural fi bres. • Withdraw stilette. Check CSF fi lls needle and attach manometer (3-way tap turned off towards you) to measure ‘opening’ pressure. • Catch fl uid in three sequentially numbered bottles (10 drops per tube). • Reinsert stilette then remove needle and apply dressing. Document the procedure clearly in the notes including CSF appearance and opening pressure. • Send CSF promptly for microscopy, culture, protein, lactate, and glucose (do plas- ma glucose too)—call the lab to let them know. If applicable, also send for: cytol- ogy, fungal studies, TB culture, virology (± herpes and other PCR), syphilis serology, oligoclonal bands (+serum sample for comparison) if multiple sclerosis suspected. Is there xanthochromia (p478)? • If you fail; ask for help—try with
