Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


virology (± herpes and other PCR), syphilis serology, oligoclonal bands (+serum sample for comparison) if multiple sclerosis suspected. Is there xanthochromia (p478)? • If you fail; ask for help—try with the patient sitting or with radiological guidance. CSF composition Normal values: Lymphocytes <5/mm3; no polymorphs; protein <0.4g/L; glucose >2.2mmol/L (or ≥50% plasma level); pressure <200mm CSF. In men- ingitis: See p822. In multiple sclerosis: See p496. Bloody tap: This is an artefact due to piercing a blood vessel, which is indicated (unreliably) by fewer red cells in successive bottles, and no yellowing of CSF (xa n- thochromia). To estimate how many white cells (W) were in the CSF before the blood was added, use the following: W = CSF WCC Ω [(blood WCC ≈ CSF RBC) ÷ blood RBC]. If the blood count is normal, the rule of thumb is to subtract from the total CSF WCC (per μL) one white cell for every 1000 RBCS. To estimate the true protein level, subtract 10mg/L for every 1000 RBCS/mm3 (be sure to do the count and protein estimation on the same bottle). NB: high protein levels in CSF make it appear yellow. Subarachnoid haemorrhage: Xanthochromia (yellow supernatant on spun CSF). Red cells in equal numbers in all bottles (unreliable). RBCS will excite an infl ammatory response (eg CSF WCC raised), most marked after 48h. Raised protein: Meningitis; MS; Guillain–Barré syndrome. Very raised CSF protein: Spinal block; TB; or severe bacterial meningitis. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 776688 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 serudecorp lacitcarP Complications 769 • Post-dural puncture headache. • Infection. • Bleeding. • Cerebral herniation (rare, check for signs of ICP before proceeding). • Minor/transient neurological symptoms, eg paraesthesia, radiculopathy. Any change in lower body neurology after an LP (pain, weakness, sensory changes, bladder/bowel disturbance) should be treated as cauda equina compression (hae- matoma/abscess) until proven otherwise. Obtain an urgent MRI spine. Post-LP brain MRI scans often show diff use meningeal enhancement with gado- linium. This is thought to be a refl ection of increased blood fl ow secondary to intracranial hypotension. Interpret these scans with caution and in the context of the patient’s clinical situation. Ensure the reason for the scan and current neuro- logical examination are discussed with the radiologist pre procedure. Post-LP headache Risk 10–30%, typically occurring within 24h of LP, resolution over hours to 2wks (mean: 3–4d). Patients describe a constant, dull ache, more frontal than occipi- tal. The most characteristic symptom
