Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Risk 10–30%, typically occurring within 24h of LP, resolution over hours to 2wks (mean: 3–4d). Patients describe a constant, dull ache, more frontal than occipi- tal. The most characteristic symptom is of positional exacerbation—worse when upright. There may be mild meningism or nausea. The pathology is thought to be continued leakage of CSF from the puncture site and intracranial hypotension, though there may be other mechanisms involved. Prevention Use the smallest spinal needle that is practical (22G) and keep the bevel aligned as described on p768. Blunt needles (more expensive) can reduce risk and are recommended (ask an anaesthetist about supply); however, collection of CSF takes too long (>6min) if needles smaller than 22G are used. Before withdraw- ing the needle, reinsert the stilette. Treatment Despite years of anecdotal advice to the contrary, none of the follow- ing has ever been shown to be a risk factor: position during or after the procedure; hydration status before, during, or after; amount of CSF removed; immediate activ- ity or rest post-LP. Time is a consistent healer. For severe or prolonged headaches, ask an anaesthetist about a blood patch. This is a careful injection of 20mL of autologous venous blood into the adjacent epidural space (said to ‘clog up the hole’). Immediate relief occurs in 95%. Fig 18.8 Defi ning the 3rd–4th lumbar vertebral interspace. Adapted with permission from Vakil et al., Diagnosis and Management of Medical Emergencies, 1977 Oxford University Press. Fig 18.9 Axial T2-weighted MRI of the lumbar spine. The conus ends at the L1/L2 level with cont inuation of the cauda equina. Lumbar punc- ture below the L2 level will not damage the cauda equina as the nerve roots will part around an LP needle. Image courtesy of Norwich Radiology Dept. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 776699 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 serudecorp lacitcarP 770 Cardioversion/defi brillation Do not wait for a crisis before familiarizing yourself with the defi brillator, as there are several types. All hospitals should include this information in your induction but check how the machine on your ward works. Indications To restore sinus rhythm if VF/VT; AF, fl utter, or supraventricular tachy- cardias if other treatments (p126) have failed, or there is haemodynamic compro- mise (p130 & p806). This may be done as an emergency, eg VF/VT, or electively, eg AF. Aim To completely depolarize the heart using a direct current. Procedure For VF/pulseless VT follow the ALS algo- rithm on p894 and
