Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


an emergency, eg VF/VT, or electively, eg AF. Aim To completely depolarize the heart using a direct current. Procedure For VF/pulseless VT follow the ALS algo- rithm on p894 and call the arrest team! • Unless critically unwell, conscious patients require a general anaesthetic or monitored heavy sedation. Fig 18.10 The dampened sine • If elective cardioversion of AF ensure adequate antico- monophasic waveform. agulation beforehand. • Almost all defi brillators are now paddle-free and use ‘hands-free’ pads instead (less chance of skin arc than jelly). Place the pads on chest, one over apex (p39) and one below right clavicle. The positions are often given by a diagram on the reverse of the pad. Cardioversion: Synchronize the shock with the rhythm by pressing the ‘SYNC’ button on the machine. This en- Fig 18.11 Rectilinear bipha- sures the shock does not initiate a ventricular arrhyth- sic waveform with truncated mia. However, this only works for cardioversion; if the exponential decay. Most new sync mode is engaged in VF, the defi brillator will not external defi brillators use this discharge. waveform. • Monophasic defi brillators: (fi g 18.10) Set the energy level at 360J for VF/VT (arrest situation); 200J for AF; 50J for atrial fl utter. • Biphasic defi brillators: (fi g 18.11) Impedance is less with a biphasic shock and 120–200J is used for shocks for VF/VT. They use less energy and are just as eff ective as monophasic defi bs in cardio version. 120–200J will cardiovert most arrhythmias. • Automatic external defi brillators: (AEDS) Can be used by anyone who can turn them on and apply the pads. Follow the instructions given by the AED. Shocking 1 Consider anticoagulation in AF (see p130). 2 Clearly state that you are charging the defi brillator. 3 Make sure no one else is touching the patient, the bed, or anything is in turn touching these. 4 Clearly state that you are about to shock the patient. 5 Give the shock. If there is a change in rhythm before you shock and the shock is no longer required, turn the dial to ‘discharge’. Do not allow anyone to ap- proach until the reading has dropped to 0J. 6 After a shock: in resuscitation, resume CPR immediately and do not reassess rhythm until the end of the cycle (see p894, fi g A3); in cardioversion, watch ECG; consider need to repeat the shock. Up to
