Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


CPR immediately and do not reassess rhythm until the end of the cycle (see p894, fi g A3); in cardioversion, watch ECG; consider need to repeat the shock. Up to three are usual for AF/fl utter. 7 Get an up-to-date 12-lead ECG. In children, use 4J/kg in VF/VT; see OHCS p239. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 777700 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 serudecorp lacitcarP Taking arterial blood gas (ABG) samples 771 Having an artery sampled is more unpleasant for the patient than venepuncture: explain that it is going to feel diff erent and is for a diff erent purpose (p162 for indications and analysis). The usual site is the radial artery at the wrist. Check with the patient that they do not have an arterio- venous fi stula for haemodial- ysis. Never, ever sample from a fi stula. Procedure: Fig 18.12 The ideal position for the wrist, slightly hyperex- • Get kit ready; include: port- tended, resting on an unopened litre bag of fl uid or a band- able sharps bin; pre-heparin- age is ideal. In an unconscious patient or for arterial line ized syringe; needle (blue size insertion, taping the thumb to the bed can hold the wrist in (23G) is good, although many the perfect position if you do not have an assistant. syringes now come pre-made with needle); gloves; 2% chlorhexidine/70% alco- hol swab; gauze; tape. • Feel thoroughly for the best site. Look at both sides. • Wipe with cleaning swab. Let the area dry. Get yourself comfortable. • If the patient is drowsy or unconscious, ask an assistant to hold the hand and arm with the wrist slightly extended (fi g 18.12). • Before sampling, expel any excess heparin in the syringe. Infi ltration over the artery with a small amount of 1% lidocaine (p573) through a 25G (orange) needle makes the procedure painless. • Hold the syringe like a pen, with the needle bevel up. Let the patient know you are about to take the sample. Feel for the pulse with your other hand and enter at 45°, aiming beneath the fi nger you are feeling with. • In most syringes, the plunger will move up on its own in a pulsatile manner if you are in the artery; rarely, entry into a vein next to the artery will give a similar result. Colour of the blood is little guide to its source. • Allow the syringe to fi ll with
