Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


into a vein next to the artery will give a similar result. Colour of the blood is little guide to its source. • Allow the syringe to fi ll with 1–2mL, then remove the needle and apply fi rm pressure for 5 minutes (10 if anticoagulated). • Expel any air from the syringe as this will alter the oxygen- ation of the blood. Cap and label the sample, check the patient’s temperature and FiO 2 (0.21 if on air). Take the sample to the nearest analysis ma- chine or send it by express de- Fig 18.13 The femoral artery is amenable to ABG livery to the lab (which may be sampling. by your own feet, get someone else to apply pressure) as it should be analysed within 15 minutes of sampling. • Syringes and analysis machines diff er, so get familiar with the local nuances. The other site that is amenable to ABG sampling is the femoral artery (fi g 18.13). Surprisingly this may be less uncomfortable as it is a relatively less sensitive area and because, when supine, the patient cannot see the needle and thus may feel less apprehensive. The brachial artery can also be used, but be aware that the median nerve sits closely on its medial side and it is an end-artery. Normal values: p753. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 777711 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 serudecorp lacitcarP 772 Emergency airway management Cricothyroidotomy Thsi is an emergency procedure to overcome airway obstruc- tion above the level of the larynx. It should only be done in absolute ‘can’t intubate, can’t ventilate’ situations, ie where ventilation is impossible with a bag and mask (± airway adjuncts) and where there is an immediate threat to life. If not, call anaes- thetics or ENT for immediate help. Indications Upper airway obstruction when endotracheal intubation not possible, eg irretrievable foreign body; facial oedema (burns, angio-oedema); maxillofacial trauma; infection (epiglottitis). Procedure Lie the patient supine with neck extended (eg pillow under shoulders) unless there is suspected cervical-spine instability. Run your index fi nger down the neck anteriorly in the midline to fi nd the notch in the upper border of the thyroid cartilage (the Adam’s apple): just below this, between the thyroid and cricoid carti- lages, is a depression—the cricothyroid membrane (see fi g 18.14). If you cannot feel the depression and it is an emergency, you can access the trachea directly ap- proximately halfway between the cricoid cartilage
