Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


cricothyroid membrane (see fi g 18.14). If you cannot feel the depression and it is an emergency, you can access the trachea directly ap- proximately halfway between the cricoid cartilage and the suprasternal notch. Ideally use a purpose-designed kit (eg QuickTrach∏, MiniTrach∏), all hos- pitals will stock one version. If no kit is available then a cannula (needle crico- thyroidotomy) can buy time, and in out- of-hospital situations a blade and empty biro case have saved lives. Needle and kit cricothyroidotomies are temporary Fig 18.14 The cricothyroid membrane. measures pending formal tracheostomy. 1 Needle cricothyroidotomy: Pierce the membrane perpendicular to the skin with large-bore cannula (14G) attached to syringe: withdrawal of air confi rms position; lidocaine may or may not be required. Slide cannula over needle at 45° to the skin superiorly in the sagittal plane. Use a Y-connector (see fi g 18.16) or improvise con- nection to O2 supply at 15L/min: use thumb on Y-connector to allow O2 in over 1s and CO2 out over 4s (‘transtracheal jet insuffl ation’). This is the preferred method in children <12yrs. This will only sustain life for 30–45min before CO2 builds up. However, if the patient has a completely obstructed airway then they will not be able to exhale through this, and it will lead to cardiovascular compromise and pneumothoraces. 2 Cricothyroidotomy kit: Most contain a guarded blade, and a large (4–6mm) shaped cannula (cuff ed or uncuff ed depending on brand) over an introducer, plus a connector and binding tape. The patient will have to be ventilated via a bag, as the resistance is too high to breathe spontaneously. This will sustain for 30–45min. 3 Surgical cricothyroidotomy: Smallest tube for prolonged ventilation is 6mm. Introduce high-volume, low-pressure cuff tracheostomy tube through a horizontal incision in membrane. Take care not to cut the thyroid or cricoid cartilages. Complications Local haemorrhage ± aspiration; posterior perforation of trachea ± oesophagus; subglottic stenosis; laryngeal stenosis if membrane over-incised in childhood; tube blockage; subcutaneous tunnelling; vocal cord paralysis or hoarse- ness (the recurrent laryngeal nerve runs superiorly in the tracheo-oesophageal groove). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 777722 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 serudecorp lacitcarP Emergency needle pericardiocentesis 773 Fig 18.15 Emergency needle pericardiocentesis. • Get your senior’s help (for whom this page may serve as an aide-memoire). • Equipment: 20mL syringe, long 18G cannula, 3-way tap, ECG monitor, skin cleanser. Use ECHO guidance if there is time. • If time allows, use full
