Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


serve as an aide-memoire). • Equipment: 20mL syringe, long 18G cannula, 3-way tap, ECG monitor, skin cleanser. Use ECHO guidance if there is time. • If time allows, use full aseptic technique, at a minimum clean skin with 2% chlo- rhexidine in 70% alcohol and wear sterile gloves, and, if conscious, use local an- aesthesia and sedation, eg with slow IV midazolam: titrate up to 3.5–5mg—start with 2mg over 1min, 0.5–1mg in elderly (in whom the maximum dose is 3.5mg; inject at the rate of 2mg/min)—antidote: fl umazenil 0.2mg IV over 15s, then 0.1mg every 60s, up to 1mg in total. Ensure you have IV access and full resuscitation equipment to hand. • Introduce needle at 45° to skin just below and to left of xiphisternum, aiming for tip of left scapula (fi g 18.15). Aspirate continuously and watch ECG. Frequent ventricular ectopics or an injury pattern (ST segment) on ECG imply that the myocardium has been breached—withdraw slightly. As soon as fl uid is obtained through the needle, slide the cannula into place. • Evacuate pericardial contents through the syringe and 3-way tap. Removal of only a small amount of fl uid (eg 20mL) can produce marked clinical improve- ment. If you are not sure whether the fl uid you are aspirating is pure blood (eg on entering a ventricle), see if it clots (heavily bloodstained pericardial fl uid does not clot), or measure its PCV (though this may be diffi cult in the acute setting but some blood gas analysers may give this). • You can leave the cannula in situ temporarily, for repeated aspiration. If there is reaccumulation, insert a drain but perica rdiectomy may be needed. • Send fl uid for microscopy and culture, as needed, including tests for TB. Complications: Laceration of ventricle or coronary artery (± subsequent haemo- pericardium); aspiration of ventricular blood; arrhythmias (ventricular fi brillation); pneumothorax; puncture of aorta, oesophagus (± mediastinitis), or peritoneum (± peritonitis). Fig 18.16 Methods of providing oxygen. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 777733 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 serudecorp lacitcarP 774 Central venous cannulation Central venous cannulae may be inserted to measure central venous pressure (CVP), to administer certain drugs (eg amiodarone, chemotherapy), or for intravenous ac- cess (fl uid, parenteral nutrition). In an emergency, the procedure can be done using the landmark method (see p775), though NICE recommends that all routine internal jugular catheters should be placed with US guidance. Even if the
