Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


emergency, the procedure can be done using the landmark method (see p775), though NICE recommends that all routine internal jugular catheters should be placed with US guidance. Even if the line is not placed under direct US visualization, a look to check vessel size, position in relation to artery, and patency (no thrombus or stenosis) is extremely useful. For contraindications, see table 18.2. Table 18.2 Contraindications to central venous cannulation Absolute Relative Infection at insertion site Coagulopathy Ipsilateral carotid endarterectomy Newly inserted cardiac pacemaker leads Thrombus within the vein Venous stenosis Ipsilateral abnormal anatomy Sites of insertion These include the internal jugular vein (see p775 and p43), sub- clavian vein, and the femoral vein. The choice depends largely on operator experi- ence, but evidence suggests that the femoral approach is associated with a higher rate of line infection and thrombosis. Overall, the internal jugular approach (with ultrasound guidance) is most commonly used and risks fewer complications than the subclavian. If possible, get written consent (p568). Check clotting and platelets. The technique for internal jugular (routine) and femoral (emergency) are given here. Complications (~20%.) Insertion is not without hazard, so decide whether the pa- tient requires a line fi rst, and then ask for help if you are inexperienced. Bleeding; arterial puncture/cannulation; AV fi stula formation; air embolism; pneu- mothorax; haemothorax; chylothorax (lymph); phrenic nerve palsy (the right phrenic nerve passes over the brachiocephalic artery, posterior to the subclavian vein—hic- cups may be a sign of injury); phlebitis; thrombus formation on tip or in vein (if high risk for thromboembolism, eg malignancy, consider anticoagulation, eg LMWH); bac- terial colonization; cellulitis; sepsis (can be reduced by adherence to a strict aseptic technique; if taking blood cultures in a febrile patient with a central venous line, remember to take samples from the central line and from a peripheral vein). Peripherally inserted central cannulas (PICC lines) These are a good alternative to central lines, as they can stay in situ for up to 6 months, and provide access for blood sampling, fl uids, antibiotics (allowing home IV therapy). They are placed using a Seldinger technique, puncturing the brachial or basilic vein then threading the line into the subclavian or superior vena cava. Because of the insertion site there is a much lower risk of pneumo- or haemothorax, but they are tricky to insert in an emergency. Removing central lines Should be done carefully with
