Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


the insertion site there is a much lower risk of pneumo- or haemothorax, but they are tricky to insert in an emergency. Removing central lines Should be done carefully with aseptic technique. Position the patient slightly head down, remove dressings, clean and drape the area, remove sutures. Ask the patient to inhale and hold their breath, then breathe out smoothly while you are pulling the line out. This helps to prevent air emboli. Ask the patient to rehearse this sequence with you to ensure they have understood their role. Apply pressure for 5 minutes (longer if coagulopathic). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 777744 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 serudecorp lacitcarP Internal jugular catheterization 775 Internal jugular Should be the approach of choice in a non-emergency situation. Ideally the right side as it off ers a direct route to the heart and there is less chance of misplacement of the line compared to the left. The subclavian approach is trickier and best taught by an expert. Use US guidance if at all possible, ideally to insert the line under direct vision, but at least to defi ne the anatomy. If possible, have the pa- tient attached to a cardiac monitor in case of arrhythmias. • Position the patient slightly head down to avoid air embolism and fi ll the veins to improve your chances of success. This can compromise cardiac function and pre- cipitate acute LVF so check if your patient has a cardiac history. Minimize the time the patient is head down; if they are unable to lie fl at, consider a femoral approach. Turn their head slightly to the left. • This should be a sterile procedure so use full aseptic technique (hat, mask, gloves, gown) and clean with 2% chlorhexidine in 70% isopropyl alcohol before draping. Ensure your equipment is prepared, fl ush the catheter lumens with saline. • If US is unavailable, the landmark procedure can be used to identify insertion point—approximately at the junction of the two heads of sternocleidomastoid at about the level of the thyroid cartilage (fi g 18.17). Feel gently for the carotid pulse, then infi ltrate with 1% lidocaine just lateral to this. The vein is usually superfi cial (fi g 18.18). • Insert the introducer needle with a 5mL syringe attached, advance gently at a 45° angle, aiming Fig 18.17 Position of internal for the ipsilateral nipple and aspirating continu- jugular and subclavian veins (red) ously. If you
