Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


5mL syringe attached, advance gently at a 45° angle, aiming Fig 18.17 Position of internal for the ipsilateral nipple and aspirating continu- jugular and subclavian veins (red) ously. If you are using US, watch the needle tip compared to the clavicle (yellow). enter the vein, if the landmark approach keep your fi ngers on the carotid pulse. • As soon as blood is aspirated, lay down the US probe and hold the introducer needle in position, remove the syringe and thread the guidewire through the needle. It should pass easily, if there is resistance try lowering the angle of the needle and gently advancing the wire. If the wire will not pass do not remove it alone, the tip can shear off Fig 18.18 Vessels seen on ultra- and embolize; remove the needle with the wire, sound. The compressible vein is above the artery. apply pressure and attempt a second puncture. • If the wire threads easily, insert to 30cm (see markings on the wire), remove the needle keeping hold of the wire at all times. Make a nick in the skin with a scalpel at the insertion point, and gently thread the dilator over the wire. You do not need to insert the dilator far, only as far as the vein (you often feel a loss of resistance as the dilator enters the vein, so insert gently: a pneumothorax can result from enthusiastic dilating). • Remove the dilator, keeping hold of the wire, thread the fl ushed catheter over the wire, then remove the wire. The line should sit at about 13cm on the right side (17cm on the left). Check you can aspirate blood from each lumen, then fl ush them. • Suture the catheter in place (many have little ‘wings’ for suturing) and dress. Re- quest a CXR to confi rm position and exclude pneumothorax. The tip of the catheter should sit vertically in the SVC. Femoral vein In an emergency situation where ultrasound is not easily accessible, if the patient is unable to lie fl at, or where speed is of the essence, the femoral ap- proach is often the safest, as there is no risk of pneumothorax or haemothorax and a much reduced risk of arrhythmia. The technique is similar to internal jugular, except the insertion point is just medial to the femoral artery at the groin crease. Subclavian vein Should be taught by an
