Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


arrhythmia. The technique is similar to internal jugular, except the insertion point is just medial to the femoral artery at the groin crease. Subclavian vein Should be taught by an expert and should ideally be carried out under US guidance. Some physicians prefer this approach, but even in experienced hands there is a risk of complications compared to US-guided internal jugular lines. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 777755 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 serudecorp lacitcarP 776 Inserting a temporary cardiac pacemaker Often it is wiser to liaise with a specialist pacing centre to arrange prompt, defi nitive pacing than to try temporary transvenous pacing, which often has complications (see later in topic) and therefore may delay a defi nitive procedure. Possible indications in the acute phase of myocardial infarction • Complete AV block: • With inferior MI (right coronary artery occlusion) pacing may only be needed if symptomatic; spontaneous recovery may occur. • With anterior MI (representing massive septal infarction). • Second-degree block: • Wenckebach (p99; implies decremental AV node conduction; may respond to atropine in an inferior MI; pace if anterior MI). • Mobitz type 2 block is usually associated with distal fascicular disease and car- ries high risk of complete heart block, so pace in both types of MI. • First-degree block: Observe carefully: 40% develop higher degrees of block. • Bundle branch block: Pace prophylactically if evidence of trifascicular disease (p100) or non-adjacent bifascicular disease. • Sino-atrial disease + serious symptoms: Pace unless responds to atropine. Other indications where temporary pacing may be needed • Pre-op: if surgery is required in patients with type 2 or complete heart block (whether or not MI has occurred); do 24h ECG; liaise with the anaesthetist. • Drug poisoning, eg with -blockers, digoxin, or verapamil. • Symptomatic bradycardia, uncontrolled by atropine or isoprenaline. • Suppression of drug-resistant VT and SVT (overdrive pacing; do on ICU). • Asystolic cardiac arrest with P-wave activity (ventricular standstill). • During or after cardiac surgery—eg around the AV node or bundle of His. Technique for temporary transvenous pacing Learn from an expert. • Preparation: Monitor ECG; have a defi brillator to hand, ensure the patient has pe- ripheral access; check that a radiographer with screening equipment is present. If you are screening, wear a protective lead apron. • Insertion: Using an aseptic technique, place the introducer into the (ideally right) internal jugular vein (p775) or subclavian. If this is diffi cult, access to
