Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


a protective lead apron. • Insertion: Using an aseptic technique, place the introducer into the (ideally right) internal jugular vein (p775) or subclavian. If this is diffi cult, access to the right atrium can be achieved via the femoral vein. Pass the pacing wire through the introducer into the right atrium, ideally under radiological screening. It will either pass easily through the tricuspid valve or loop within the atrium. If the latter oc- curs, it is usually possible to fl ip the wire across the valve with a combined twisting and withdrawing movement (fi g 18.19). Advance the wire slightly. At this stage the wire may try to exit the ventricle through the pulmonary outfl ow tract. A further withdrawing and rotation of the wire will aim the tip at the apex of the right ven- tricle. Advance slightly again to place the wire in contact with the endocardium. Remove any slack to risk of subsequent displacement. • Checking the threshold: Connect the wire to the pacing box and set the ‘demand’ rate slightly higher than the patient’s own heart rate and the output to 3V. A paced rhythm should be seen. Find the pacing threshold by slowly reducing the voltage until the pacemaker fails to stimulate the tissue (pacing spikes are no longer fol- lowed by paced beats). The threshold should be less than 1V, but a slightly higher value may be acceptable if it is stable—eg after a large infarction. • Setting the pacemaker: Set the output to 3V or over 3 times the threshold value (whichever is higher) in ‘demand’ mode. Set the rate as required. Suture the wire to the skin, and fi x with a sterile dressing. • Check the position of the wire (and exclude pneumothorax) with a CXR. • Recurrent checks of the pacing threshold are required over the next few days. The formation of endocardial oedema can raise the threshold by a factor of 2–3. Complications Pneumothorax; sepsis; cardiac perforation; pacing failure: from loss of capture, loss of electrical continuity in pacing circuit, or electrode displacement. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 777766 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 serudecorp lacitcarP 777 Fig 18.19 Siting a temporary cardiac pacemaker. Non-invasive transcutaneous cardiac pacing This method (performed through a defi brillator with external pacing facility) has the advantages of being quicker, less risky than the transvenous route, and easier to perform. Its main disadvantage is the pain caused by skeletal muscle contrac-
