Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


the whole team in discussions, but remember that at the heart of this is a patient. What do they want? Never be afraid to ask the patient directly, they may hold very strong views. However, it is up to us as physicians to be honest with them about their prognosis—do not off er a treatment you know is not in the best interests of the patient, and this includes resuscitation. When faced with death, many patients are afraid—our role is to try to relieve that fear, whether by intervening to delay death, or by easing their passing. But we cannot ever prevent death, we simply delay it. As Shakespeare has Julius Caesar say: ‘Of all the wonders that I have yet heard, it seems to me most strange that men should fear, seeing that death, a necessary end, will come when it will come.’ ABCDE preliminary assessment (primary survey) Airway Protect cervical spine, if injury possible. Assessment: any signs of obstruction? Ascertain patency. Management: establish a patent airway. Breathing Assessment: determine respiratory rate, check bilateral chest move- ment, percuss, and auscultate. Management: if no respiratory eff ort, treat as arrest (see p894, fi g A3), intubate and ventilate. If breathing compromised, give high- concentration O2, manage according to fi ndings, eg relieve tension pneumothorax. Circulation Assessment: check pulse and BP; check if peripherally shut down; check capillary refi ll; look for evidence of haemorrhage. Management: if shocked, treat as on p790. If no cardiac output, treat as arrest (see p894, fi g A3). Disability Assess ‘level of consciousness’ with AVPU score (alert? responds to voice? to pain? unresponsive?); check pupils: size, equality, reactions. Glasgow Coma Scale, if time allows. Exposure Undress patient, but cover to avoid hypothermia. Quick history from relatives assists diagnosis: Events surrounding onset of illness, evidence of overdose/suicide attempt, any suggestion of trauma? Past medical history, especially diabetes, asthma, COPD, alcohol, opiate or street drug abuse, epilepsy or recent head injury, recent travel. Medication, current drugs. Allergies. Once ventilation and circulation are adequate, proceed to carry out history, examination, investigations, and management in the usual way. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 777799 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 sseeiiccnneeggrreemmEE 780 Headache: diff erential diagnosis The vast majority of headaches are benign, but when taking a history do not forget to ask about the following1 (early diagnosis can save lives): Worrying features or ‘red fl ags’ • First and worst headache—subarachnoid haemorrhage (p478). • Thunderclap headache—subarachnoid
