Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


level of the red nucleus. NB: an abbreviated coma scale, AVPU, is sometimes used in the initial assessment (‘primary survey’) of the critically ill: A = alert V = responds to vocal stimuli P = responds to pain U = unresponsive NB: GCS scoring is diff erent in young children; see OHCS p201. 1 Red nucleus output reinforces upper limb antigravity fl exion. When its output is damaged, the unregu- lated reticulospinal and vestibulospinal tracts reinforce extension tone of upper and lower limbs. The Glasgow Coma Scale is reproduced from The Lancet, Vol. 304, Teasdale G & Jennet B, Assessment of Coma and Impaired Consciousness: A Practical Scale, ©1974, with permission from Elsevier. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 778888 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 seicnegremE The neurological examination in coma 789 This is aimed at locating the pathology in one of two places. Altered level of con- sciousness implies either: 1 A diff use, bilateral, cortical dysfunction (usually producing loss of awareness with normal arousal), or 2 Damage to the ascending reticular activating system (ARAS) located through- out the brainstem from the medulla to the thalami (usually producing loss of arousal with unassessable awareness). The brainstem can be aff ected directly (eg pontine haemorrhage) or indirectly (eg compression from transtentorial or cerebellar herniation secondary to a mass or oedema). Systematic examination: • Level of consciousness; describe using objective words/AVPU. • Respiratory pattern (p53)—Cheyne-Stokes (brainstem lesions or compression) hyperventilation (acidosis, hypoxia, or, rarely, neurogenic), ataxic or apneustic (breath-holding) breathing (brainstem damage with grave prognosis). • Eyes—almost all patients with ARAS pathology will have eye fi ndings: 1 Visual fi elds—in light coma, test fi elds with visual threat. No blink in one fi eld suggests hemianopia and contralateral hemisphere lesion. 2 Pupils—normal direct and consensual refl exes present = intact midbrain. Midposition (3–5mm) non-reactive ± irregular = midbrain lesion. Unilateral dilated and unreactive (‘fi xed’) = 3rd nerve compression. Small, reactive = pontine lesion (‘pin-point pontine pupils’) or drugs. Horner’s syndrome (p702, fi g 15.4) = ipsilateral lateral medulla or hypothalamus lesion, may precede uncal herniation. Beware patients with false eyes or who use eye drops for glaucoma. 3 Extraocular movements (EOMS)—observe resting position and spontaneous movement; then test the vestibulo-ocular refl ex (VOR) with either the doll’s- head manoeuvre (normal if the eyes keep looking at the same point in space when the head is quickly moved laterally or vertically) or ice water calorics (normal if eyes
