Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


head manoeuvre (normal if the eyes keep looking at the same point in space when the head is quickly moved laterally or vertically) or ice water calorics (normal if eyes deviate towards the cold ear with nystagmus to the other side). If present, the VOR exonerates most of the brainstem from the VIIth nerve nucleus (medulla) to the IIIrd (midbrain). Don’t move the head unless the cervical spine is cleared. 4 Fundi—papilloedema, subhyaloid haemorrhage, hypertensive retinopathy, signs of other disease (eg diabetic retinopathy). • Examine for CNS asymmetry (tone, spontaneous movements, refl exes). One way to test for hemiplegia in coma is to raise both arms together and compare how they fall under gravity. If one descends fast, like a lead weight, but the other descends more gracefully, you have found a valuable focal sign of cortical dys- function. The same applies to the legs. Reproduced from 'Assessment of coma and impaired consciousness: a practical scale', Graham Teasdale and Bryan Jennett, The Lancet, Vol 304, No. 7872, 81–84 (1974), Elsevier. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 778899 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 seicnegremE 790 Shock Circulatory failure resulting in inadequate organ perfusion. Often defi ned by BP— systolic <90mmHg—or mean arterial pressure (MAP) <65mmHg—with evidence of tissue hypoperfusion, eg mottled skin, urine output (UO) of <0.5mL/kg/h, serum lactate >2mmol/L. Signs: GCS/agitation, pallor, cool peripheries, tachycardia, slow capillary refi ll, tachypnoea, oliguria. MAP = cardiac output (CO) ≈ systemic vascular resistance (SVR). CO = stroke volume ≈ heart rate.   shock can result from inadequate CO or a loss of SVR, or both. Inadequate cardiac output • Hypovolaemia: • Bleeding: trauma, ruptured aortic aneurysm, GI bleed. • Fluid loss: vomiting, burns, ‘third-space’ losses, eg pancreatitis, heat exhaustion. • Pump failure: • Cardiogenic shock, eg ACS, arrhythmias, aortic dissection, acute valve failure. • Secondary causes, eg PE, tension pneumothorax, cardiac tamponade. Peripheral circulatory failure (loss of SVR) • Sepsis: (p792) Infection with any organism can cause acute vasodilation from infl ammatory cytokines. Gram –ves can produce endotoxin, causing sudden and severe shock but without signs of infection (fever,  WCC). Classically patients with sepsis are warm & vasodilated, but may be cold & shut down. Other diseases, eg pancreatitis, can give a similar picture associated with the infl ammatory cascade. • Anaphylaxis: p794. • Neurogenic: Eg spinal cord injury, epidural or spinal anaesthesia. • Endocrine failure: Addison’s disease, p836 or hypothyroidism; see p834. • Other: Drugs, eg anaesthetics, antihypertensives,
