Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


skin. Non- ing, or discharge around wound blanching rash (p822) Rigors, or temperature <36°C Impaired immunity (illness or drugs) Recent surgery/trauma/invasive procedure When there is a suspicion of sepsis, the criteria in table 19.3 are used to assess the patient’s risk of death or serious illness from sepsis as follows: High risk: At least one high-risk criterion OR at least two moderate- to high-risk criteria with AKI or LACTATE >2. Moderate to high risk: At least one moderate- to high-risk criterion. Low risk: No moderate- or high-risk criteria. Acute management in sepsis Early recognition and treatment is key. See fi g 19.3.2 Antibiotics: These should be broad spectrum and start within 1h. Consider covering for non-bacterial microbes, eg give aciclovir if HSV encephalitis is suspected. Fluids: Give within 1h if high risk with SBP <90, AKI, or lactate >2 (consider if <2). • Give 500mL boluses of crystalloids with 130–154mmol/L sodium (eg 0.9% saline) over 15mins. Caution in heart failure. • If no improvement after two boluses, speak with a senior. Oxygen: Give oxygen as required for target saturations. These will be 94–98% (or 88–92% if the patient is at risk of CO2 retention, eg in severe COPD). Critical care review: Speak with critical care early if intensive care support (eg inotropes, ventilation, haemofi ltration, intensive monitoring) may be required. Surgical involvement: Eg emergency wound debridement. Manage acute complications: Shock (p790), AKI (p298), DIC (p352), ARDS (p186), ar- rhythmias (may spontaneously resolve when sepsis improves). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 779922 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 seicnegremE 793  Acute management of sepsis in adults Recognize the need to assess for sepsis • Consider possibility of sepsis in any patient with signs or symptoms that are suggestive of infection (eg productive cough or off ensive oozing wound) • Consider non-specifi c signs (patient/carer concern; altered mental state; feeling generally unwell), particularly when there is reason to have low threshold for sepsis assessment (see BOX) Gather information History: Full medical history: take time to clarify the time course of symp- toms and any travel history Examination: • General: capillary refi ll time, mottled/ashen skin, conscious level • Localize source of infection: don’t forget to assess wounds/ulcers which may be hidden by dressings Bedside tests: Blood gas for lactate, observations incl. HR, BP, RR, sats, tem- perature; ECG; urine dip and urine output monitoring Assess risk (see BOX) High risk Moderate to high risk Low risk Request immediate Clinician
