Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


t when started early, eg bisoprolol 2.5mg PO OD. Ensure no evidence of cardiogenic shock, heart failure, asthma/COPD, or heart block. Right ventricular infarction Confi rm by demonstrating ST elevation in rV3/4 and/ or echo. NB: rV4 means that V4 is placed in the right 5th intercostal space in the midclavicular line. Treat hypotension and oliguria with fl uids (avoid nitrates and diu- retics). Monitor BP carefully, and assess early signs of pulmonary oedema. Intensive monitoring and inotropes may be useful in some patients.  Reperfusion therapy Early coronary reperfusion saves lives; decisions must be taken quickly so seek senior advice early. Look for typical clinical symptoms of MI plus ECG criteria: • ST elevation >1mm in ≥2 adjacent limb leads or >2mm in ≥2 adjacent chest leads. • LBBB (unless known to have LBBB previously). • Posterior changes: deep ST depression and tall R waves in leads V1 to V3. Therapy may be percutaneous intervention (PCI—with angiographic identifi cation of the culprit blockage(s) and revascularization via deployment of an expandable met- al stent) or thrombolysis (with systemically administered clot-dissolving enzymes): • Primary PCI: Should be off ered to all patients presenting within 12h of symptom onset with a STEMI who either are at or can be transferred to a primary PCI cen- tre within 120min of fi rst medical contact. If this is not possible, patients should receive thrombolysis and be transferred to a primary PCI centre after the infusion for either rescue PCI (if residual ST elevation) or angiography (if successful). Use beyond 12h if evidence of ongoing ischaemia or in stable patients presenting after 12–24h may be appropriate—seek specialist advice. • Thrombolysis: Benefi t reduces steadily from onset of pain, target time is <30min from admission; use >12h from symptom onset requires specialist advice. Do not thrombolyse ST depression alone, T-wave inversion alone, or normal ECG. Thrombolysis is best achieved with tissue plasminogen activators (eg tenect- eplase as a single IV bolus). CI: •Previous intracranial haemorrhage. •Ischaemic stroke <6months. •Cerebral malignancy or AVM. •Recent major trauma/surgery/ head injury (<3wks). •GI bleeding (<1 month). •Known bleeding disorder. •Aortic dissection. •Non-compressible punctures <24h, eg liver biopsy, lumbar puncture. Relative CI: •TIA <6 months. •Anticoagulant therapy. •Pregnancy/<1wk post par- tum. •Refractory hypertension (>180mmHg/110mmHg). •Advanced liver disease. •Infective endocarditis. •Active peptic ulcer. •Prolonged/traumatic resuscitation. Patients with STEMI who do not receive reperfusion (eg presenting >12h after symptom onset) should be treated
