Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


and 30bpm in sleep can be ac- cepted in asymptomatic trained athletes. • Cardiac: • Degenerative changes causing fi brosis of conduction pathways (risk in elderly patients; may have previous ECGs showing bundle branch block or 1st- or 2nd- degree heart block). • Post-MI—particularly after an inferior MI (the right coronary artery supplies the sinoatrial node and atrioventricular node in most people). • Sick sinus syndrome (p125). • Iatrogenic—ablation, surgery. • Aortic valve disease, eg infective endocarditis (p150; do daily ECGs looking for heart block). • Myocarditis, cardiomyopathy, amyloid, sarcoid, SLE. • Non-cardiac origin: • Vasovagal—very common (p460). • Endocrine—hypothyroidism, adrenal insuffi ciency. • Metabolic—hyperkalaemia, hypoxia. • Other—hypothermia, ICP (Cushing’s triad: bradycardia, hypertension, and ir- regular breathing:  urgent senior input needed). • Drug-induced: • -blockers, amiodarone, verapamil, diltiazem, digoxin. Management Follow a logical approach,6 see fi g 19.11. 6 Think ahead. If you may need an anaesthetist to sedate the patient for transcuta- neous pacing, or a cardiologist for transvenous pacing, call them now. • Perform a 12-lead ECG, check electrolytes (including K+, Ca2+, Mg2+), do digoxin levels. • Connect patient to cardiac monitor/telemetry. • Address the cause: correct metabolic defects; if the patient has adverse signs or is deteriorating, give antidotes to medicines likely to have caused the bradycardia (eg glucagon if -blocker overdose). • If the patient has adverse signs or risk of asystole, give atropine (not to be given if patient has a transplanted heart). • If atropine is insuffi cient and adverse signs persist, transcutaneous pacing should be considered (p777). If this cannot be initiated immediately (eg waiting for an anaesthetist), consider other medications such as isoprenaline infusion. • Remember electrical ‘capture’ with transcutaneous pacing does not guarantee me- chanical ‘capture’. Once pacing is established, check the patient’s pulse. It is possible to have two patients sat next to each other with identical bradycardic ECG tracings, one of whom is peri-arrest, the other is sat comfortably and cannot understand your concern. The clinical state is more important than the numbers on the screen. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 880088 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 sseeiiccnneeggrreemmEE  Management of bradycardia 880099 Give O2 if hypoxic; manual BP; ECG; IV access Identify reversible causes (eg electrolyte abnormalities) Adverse signs? • Shock • Syncope Yes • Heart failure No • Myocardial ischaemia Give atropine 500mcg IV Risk of asystole? • Recent asystole Yes • Mobitz II AV block (p98) Satisfactory • Complete heart block with
