Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Drowsiness, confusion, altered with outpatient follow-up conscious level • Respiratory arrest Fig 19.12 Management of acute asthma. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 881111 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 seicnegremE 812 Acute exacerbations of COPD A common medical emergency especially in winter. May be triggered by viral or bacterial infections. Presentation Increasing cough, breathlessness, or wheeze. Decreased exercise capacity. History (See p48.) Ask about usual/recent treatments (especially home oxygen), smoking status, and exercise capacity (may infl uence a decision to ventilate the patient). Diff erential diagnosis Asthma, pulmonary oedema, upper respiratory tract ob- struction, pulmonary embolus, anaphylaxis. Investigations • ABG (p771). • CXR to exclude pneumothorax and infection. • FBC; U&E; CRP. Theophylline level if patient on therapy at home. • ECG. • Send sputum for culture if purulent. • Blood cultures if pyrexial. Management Ensure oxygenation then treat the reversible,8 see fi g 19.13. • Look for a cause, eg infection, pneumothorax. • Prior to discharge, liaise with GP regarding steroid reduction, domiciliary oxygen (p184), smoking cessation, and pneumococcal and fl u vaccinations (p166). Treatment of stable COPD and more advanced disease: See pp184–5. Consider the ceiling of care: What is in the best interests of the patient? Invasive ventilation for exacerbations of COPD may not be appropriate: it can be diffi cult to wean patients off ventilatory support, and brings with it the risk of ventilator-asso- ciated pneumonias and pneumothoraces from ruptured bullae. If possible, speak to the patient early, before deterioration, try to ascertain their wishes. Patients who have previously been ventilated may not wish to repeat the experience. Consider comorbidities, FEV1, functional status, whether the patient requires home oxygen, and whether the patient has previously been admitted to ICU (and if so, whether they were easily weaned from invasive ventilation). Involve the patient, the family, your seniors, and ICU early in making a decision. Oxygen therapy • The greatest danger is hypoxia, which probably accounts for more deaths than hypercapnia. Don’t leave patients severely hypoxic. • However, in some patients, who rely on their hypoxic drive to breathe, too much oxygen may lead to a reduced respiratory rate and hypercapnia, with a consequent fall in conscious level. Always prescribe O2 as if it were a drug. • Care is always required with O2, especially if there is evidence of CO2 retention. Start with 24–28% O2 in such patients.  Whenever you initiate or change oxygen therapy, do consider an ABG within 1h. • Monitor
