Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Including iatrogenic (CVP line insertion, pleural aspiration or biopsy, percutaneous liver biopsy, positive pressure ventilation). • Carcinoma. • Connective tissue disorders: Marfan’s syndrome, Ehlers–Danlos syndrome. Clinical features Symptoms: Can be asymptomatic (especially in fi t young people with small pneu- mothoraces) or sudden onset of dyspnoea and/or pleuritic chest pain. Patients with asthma or COPD may present with a sudden deterioration. Mechanically ventilated patients can suddenly develop hypoxia or an increase in ventilation pressures. Signs: Reduced expansion, hyper-resonance to percussion, and diminished breath sounds on the aff ected side. With a tension pneumothorax, the trachea will be devi- ated away from the aff ected side and the patient will be very unwell. Tests A CXR should not be performed if a tension pneumothorax is suspected, as it will delay immediate necessary treatment. Otherwise, request an expiratory fi lm, and look for an area devoid of lung markings, peripheral to the edge of the collapsed lung (see p725). Ensure the suspected pneumothorax is not a large emphysematous bulla. Check ABG in dyspnoeic/hypoxic patients and those with chronic lung disease. Management See fi g 19.14. Depends on whether it is a primary pneumothorax or secondary (=underlying lung disease or smoker >50yrs old), size, and symptoms.9 • Size is measured from the visible lung margin to chest wall at level of the hilum. • Pneumothorax due to trauma or mechanical ventilation requires a chest drain. • Aspiration of a pneumothorax, see p767. • Insertion and management of a chest drain, see p766. Use a small tube (10–14F) unless blood/pus is also present. Tubes may be removed 24h after the lung has re- expanded and air leak has stopped (ie the tube stops bubbling). This is done during expiration or a Valsalva manoeuvre. Surgical advice: Arrange if: bilateral pneumothoraces; lung fails to expand within 48h of intercostal drain insertion; persistent air leak; two or more previous pneumo- thoraces on the same side; or history of pneumothorax on the opposite side. Tension pneumothorax  This is a medical emergency. (See fi g 16.43, p749.) Essence Air drawn into the pleural space with each inspiration has no route of escape during expiration. The mediastinum is pushed over into the contralateral hemithorax, kinking and compressing the great veins. Unless the air is rapidly re- moved, cardiorespiratory arrest will occur. Signs Respiratory distress, tachycardia, hypotension, distended neck veins, trachea deviated away from side of pneumothorax. Increased percussion note,
