Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


with rehydration and steroids). • Hydrocortisone 100mg IV stat. • IV fl uid bolus eg 500mL 0.9% saline to support BP, repeated as necessary. • Monitor blood glucose: the danger is hypoglycaemia. • Blood, urine, sputum for culture, then antibiotics if concern about infection. Continuing treatment • Glucose IV may be needed if hypoglycaemic. • Give IV fl uids as guided by clinical state and to correct U&E imbalance. • Continue hydrocortisone, eg 100mg/8h IV or IM. • Change to oral steroids after 72h if patient’s condition good. • Fludrocortisone may well be needed if the cause is adrenal disease: ask an expert. • Search for (and vigorously treat) the underlying cause. Get endocrinological help. Hypopituitary coma Think of decompensated chronic hypophyseal failure whenever hypothermia, refrac- tory hypotension ± septic signs without fever occur with short stat ure or loss of axillary/pubic hair ± gonadal atrophy. Waiting for lab confi rmation may be fatal. It usually develops gradually in a person with known hypopituitarism. If rapid onset due to pituitary infarction (eg postpartum, Sheehan’s, p232), subarachnoid haemor- rhage is often misdiagnosed as symptoms include headache and meningism. Presentation Headache; ophthalmoplegia; consciousness; hypotension; hypo- thermia; hypoglycaemia; signs of hypopituitarism (p232). Tests Cortisol; T4; TSH; ACTH; glucose. Pituitary fossa CT/MRI. Treatment Hydrocortisone, eg 100mg IV/6h. • Only after hydrocortisone begun: liothyronine (L-tri-iodothyronine sodium), eg 10mcg/12h PO or by slow IV: 5–20mcg/12h (4-hourly may be needed). • Prompt surgery is needed if the cause is pituitary apoplexy (p234). __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 883366 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 seicnegremE Phaeochromocytoma emergencies 837 Patients with phaeochromocytoma may have had undiagnosed symptoms for some time, but stress, abdominal palpation, parturition, general anaesthetic, or contrast media used in imaging can cause acute hypertensive crises. Signs and symptoms Pallor, pulsating headache, hypertension, feels ‘about to die’, pyrexial. ECG: signs of LVF, ST segment, VT, and cardiogenic shock. Treatment Get help. Take to ICU. Principle is combined - and -adrenoreceptor blockade, but  must be started fi rst, as unopposed -blockade can worsen hypertension. • Start with short-acting, IV -blocker, eg phentolamine 2–5mg IV. Repeat to main- tain safe BP. • When BP controlled, give long-acting -blocker, eg phenoxybenzamine 10mg/24h PO (increase by 10mg/d as needed, up to 30mg/12h PO); SE: postural hypotension; dizziness; tachycardia; nasal congestion; miosis; idiosyncratic marked BP drop after 1st dose. The idea is to  the dose until BP is controlled and there is no signifi cant postural hypotension.
