Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Service: in the UK phone 0844 892 0111. Continuing care Measure temperature, pulse, BP, and blood glucose regularly. Keep on cardiac monitor. If unconscious, nurse semi-prone, turn regularly. Catherize if the bladder is distended, or acute kidney injury (p298) is suspected, or forced diuresis undertaken. Consider ICU, eg if respiration. Psychiatric assessment Be sympathetic despite the hour! Interview relatives and friends if possible. Aim to establish: • Intentions at time. Was this a suicide attempt, if so was the act planned? What precautions against being found? Did the patient seek help afterwards? Does the patient think the method was dangerous? Was there a fi nal act (eg suicide note)? • Present intentions. Do they still feel suicidal? Do they wish it had worked? • What problems led to the act: do they still exist? • Is there a psychiatric disorder (depression, alcoholism, personality disorder, schizophrenia, dementia)? • What are the patient’s resources (friends, family, work, personality)? The assessment of suicide risk: The following  chance of future suicide: original in- tention was to die; present intention is to die; presence of psychiatric disorder; poor resources; previous suicide attempts; socially isolated; unemployed; male; >50yrs old. See OHCS p358. There is risk of death in the fi rst year following initial presentation. Referral to psychiatrist: This depends partly on local resources. Refer all with pres- ence of psychiatric disorder or high suicide risk. Consider discussing all presenta- tions with deliberate self-poisoning. Mental Capacity Act or the Mental Health Act: (In England and Wales) may pro- vide for the detention of the patient against his or her will: see OHCS p406. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 883388 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 seicnegremE  Emergency care in acute poisoning 839 ABC, clear airway Consider ventilation (if the respiratory rate is <8/min, or PaO2 <8kPa, when breathing 60% O2, or the airway is at risk, eg GCS ≤ 8) Treat shock (p790) If unconscious, nurse semi-prone  Further management Assess the patient History from patient, friends, or family is vital Features from the examination may help (see p838) Investigations: • Glucose, U&E, FBC, LFT, INR, ABG, ECG, paracetamol, and salicylate levels • Urine/serum toxicology, specifi c assays as appropriate Monitor: • T°, pulse, and respiratory rate, BP, O2 saturations, urine output ± ECG Treatment: • Supportive measures: may need catheterization • Absorption: consider gastric lavage ± activated charcoal (see p840) Specifi c measures: See p840; for antidotes, see p842 Consider naloxone
