Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


± ECG Treatment: • Supportive measures: may need catheterization • Absorption: consider gastric lavage ± activated charcoal (see p840) Specifi c measures: See p840; for antidotes, see p842 Consider naloxone if conscious level and pin-point pupils Consider Pabrinex® and glucose if drowsy/confused Fig 19.25 Emergency care in acute poisoning. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 883399 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 seicnegremE 840 Acute poisoning—specifi c points Plasma toxicology For all unconscious patients, paracetamol and aspirin levels and blood glucose are required. The necessity of other assays depends on the drug taken and the index of suspicion. Be guided by the Poisons Information Service. More common assays include: digoxin; methanol; lithium; iron; theophylline. Toxicological screening of urine, especially for recreational drugs, may be of use in some cases (although not always, see BOX). GI decontamination Recommended for many drugs. The treatment of choice is now activated charcoal rather than gastric lavage. If in doubt, consult Toxbase or Poisons Information Service. Activated charcoal Reduces the absorption of many drugs from the gut when given as a single dose of 50g with water, eg salicylates, paracetamol. It is given in repeated doses (50g/4h) to increase elimination of some drugs from the blood, eg carbamazepine, dapsone, theophyllines, quinine, phenobarbital, and paraquat. Lower doses are used in children. Do not use with petroleum products, corrosives, alcohols, clofenotane, malathion, or metal salts (eg iron, lithium). Gastric lavage Rarely used. Lavage after 30–60min may make matters worse. Do not empty stomach if petroleum products or corrosives such as acids, alkalis, bleach, descalers have been ingested (exception: paraquat), or if the patient is unconscious or unable to protect their airway (unless intubated). Never induce vomiting. Gastric emptying and lavage NB: we do not recommend gastric lavage is at- tempted unless specifi cally suggested by Toxbase or Poisons Information Service. If comatose, or no gag refl ex, ask for an anaesthetist to protect airway with cuff ed endotracheal tube. If conscious, get verbal consent. • Monitor O2 by pulse oximetry. See p162. • Have suction apparatus to hand and working. • Position the patient in left lateral position. • Raise the foot of the bed by 20cm. • Pass a lubricated tube (14mm external diameter) via the mouth, asking the patient to swallow. • Confi rm position in stomach (see p759). • Siphon the gastric contents. Check pH with litmus paper. • Perform gastric lavage using 300–600mL tepid water at a time. Massage the left hypochondrium
