Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


the patient.’ Do not apply cold water to extensive burns for long periods: this may intensify shock. Take care with circumferential full- thickness burns of the limbs as compartment syndrome may develop rapidly particu- larly after fl uid resuscitation. Decompress (escharotomy and fasciotomy) as needed. If transferring to a burns unit, do not burst blisters or apply any special creams as this can hinder assessment. Simple saline gauze or paraffi n gauze is suitable; cling fi lm is useful as a temporary measure and relieves pain. Titrate morphine IV for good analgesia. Ensure tetanus immunity. Antibiotic prophylaxis is not routinely used. Defi nitive dressings There are many dressings for partial thickness burns, eg bio- logical (pigskin, cadaveric skin), synthetic, and silver sulfadia zine cream alone or with cerium nitrate as Flammacerium®; it forms a leathery eschar which resists infection. Major full-thickness burns benefi t from early tangential excision and split- skin grafts as the burn is a major source of infl ammatory cytokines and forms a rich medium for bacterial growth. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 884466 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 seicnegremE Smoke inhalation 847 Consider if: • History of exposure to fi re and smoke • Burns to face in an enclosed space • Singed nasal hairs • Hoarseness or change in voice • Soot in saliva or sputum • Harsh cough • Infl amed oropharynx • Stridor. Initially laryngospasm leads to hypoxia and straining (leading to petechiae), then hypoxic cord relaxation leads to true inhalation injury. Free radicals, cyanide com- pounds, and carbon monoxide (CO) accompany thermal injury. Cyanide (p842) compounds (generated, eg from burning plastics) stop oxidative phosphorylation, causing dizziness, headaches, and seizures. Tachycardia + dyspnoea soon give way to bradyc ardia + apnoea. CO is generated later in the fi re as oxygen is depleted. NB: COHb levels do not correlate well with the severity of poisoning and partly refl ect smoking status and urban life. Use nomograms to extrapolate peak levels. 100% O2 is given to elute both cyanide and CO. Involve ICU/anaesthetists early if any signs of airway obstruction or respiratory failure: early intubation and ventilation may be useful. Enlist expert help in cyanide poisoning—see p842. Fig 19.27 Lund and Browder charts. Acknowledgement We thank Professor Tor Chiu for help in preparing this topic. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 884477 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 seicnegremE 848 Hypothermia Have a high index of suspicion and a low-reading thermometer. Most patients are elderly and do not complain of,
