Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


in preparing this topic. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 884477 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 seicnegremE 848 Hypothermia Have a high index of suspicion and a low-reading thermometer. Most patients are elderly and do not complain of, or feel, cold—so they have not tried to warm up. In the young, hypothermia is usually from cold exposure (eg near-drowning), or is secondary to impaired consciousness (eg following excess alcohol or drug overdose). Defi nition Hypothermia implies a core (rectal) temperature <35°C. Causes In the elderly, hypothermia is often caused by a combination of factors: • Impaired homeostatic mechanisms: usually age-related. • Low room temperature: poverty, poor housing. • Impaired thermoregulation: pneumonia, MI, heart failure. • Reduced metabolism: immobility, hypothyroidism, diabetes mellitus. • Autonomic neuropathy (p505); eg diabetes mellitus, Parkinson’s. • Excess heat loss: psoriasis and any other widespread dermatological diseases (ie TEN/ erythrodermic eczema). • Cold awareness: dementia, confusion. • Increased exposure to cold: falls, especially at night when cold. • Drugs: major tranquillizers, antidepressants, diuretics, alcohol. The patient • If the patient is shivering then the hypothermia is mild, if they are not shivering despite temp <35°C then the hypothermia is severe. • Symptoms and signs include confusion, agitation, GCS, coma, bradycardia, hypo- tension and arrhythmias (AF, VT, VF), especially if temp <30°C. There are many stories of people ‘returning to life’ when warmed despite absence of vital signs, see BOX. It is essential to rewarm (see ‘Treatment’ later in topic) and re-examine. Diagnosis Check oral or axillary T°. If ordinary thermometer shows <36.5°C, use a low-reading one PR. Is the rectal temperature <35°C? Infra-red ear thermometers can accurately refl ect core temperature. Tests Urgent U&E, plasma glucose, and amylase. Thyroid function tests; FBC; blood cultures. Consider blood gases. The ECG may show J-waves (fi g 19.28). Treatment Use ABCDE approach (p779)—but don’t expose to cold. • All patients should receive warm, humidifi ed O2; ventilate if comatose or respira- tory insuffi ciency. • Remove wet clothing, slowly rewarm, aiming for rise of ½°C/h (check temperature, BP, HR, and respiratory rate every 30min) using blankets or active external warm- ing (hot air duvets). If T° rising too quickly stop and allow to cool slightly. Rapid rewarming causes peripheral vasodilation and shock. A falling BP can be a sign of too rapid warming. • Warm IVI. • Cardiac monitor is essential (AF, VF, and VT can occur at any time during rewarming or on stimulation). • Consider antibiotics
