Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


sign of too rapid warming. • Warm IVI. • Cardiac monitor is essential (AF, VF, and VT can occur at any time during rewarming or on stimulation). • Consider antibiotics for the prevention of pneumonia (p166). Give these routinely in patients over 65yrs with T° <32°C. • Consider urinary catheter (to monitor renal function). NB: in sudden hypothermia from immersion or profound hypothermia with cardiovas- cular instability/cardiac arrest, the temperature needs to be raised rapidly. Options include warmed fl uid lavage (intravesical, nasogastric, intrapleural, intraperitoneal) and intravascular warming (cardiopulmonary bypass, dialysis). In the event of car- diac arrest, defi brillation is usually unsuccessful if T° <30°C (consider amiodarone, bretylium). Resuscitation must continue until core T° >33°C (OHCS p786). Complications Arrhythmias (if there is a cardiac arrest continue resuscitating until T° >33°C, as cold brains are less damaged by hypoxia); pneumonia; pancreatitis; AKI; DIC. Prognosis: Depends on age and degree of hypothermia. If age >70yrs and T° <32°C then mortality >50%. Before hospital discharge Anticipate problems. Will it happen again? What is their network of support? Review medication (could you stop tranquillizers)? How is progress to be monitored? Liaise with GP/social worker. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 884488 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 seicnegremE 849 Fig 19.28 J-wave in hypothermia. Courtesy of Dr R Luke and Dr E McLachlan. ‘I did not die but nothing of life remained...’ Remember that death is a process not an event, and that in hypothermia, all processes are suspended: metabolism may slow to as much as 10% of baseline, drastically diminishing the oxygen requirements of all tissues. Perhaps this is what Dante had in mind for the last round of the 9th circle of Hell, in which those betraying their benefactors are encased in ice (canto XXXIV) ‘Com’io di- venni allor gelato e fi oco...Io non mori e non rimasi vivo—How frozen I then be- came: I did not die but nothing of life remained’. Human records: 13 month old Canadian Erica Nordby came to life 2 hours af- ter her heart stopped (core T°: 16°C). Anna Bågenholm, a Swedish trainee or- thopaedic surgeon, became trapped under freezing water covered by a layer of ice for 80 minutes following a skiing accident, suff ering a cardiac arrest (core T°: 13.7°C). After resuscitation and 20 days in intensive care, she regained con- sciousness, suff ering no permanent brain damage. She is now a radiologist. Do not declare anybody dead until they are warm
