Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


and 20 days in intensive care, she regained con- sciousness, suff ering no permanent brain damage. She is now a radiologist. Do not declare anybody dead until they are warm and dead. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 884499 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 seicnegremE 850 Major disasters Planning All hospitals have a detailed Major Incident Plan, but additionally the tasks of key personnel can be distributed on individual Action Cards. At the scene Call the police to notify them of the Major Incident and ask them to take command. They will set up a central command centre to assess and manage the incident, depending on casualty numbers they will inform multiple hospitals of the need to prepare for the imminent arrival of casualties. Safety: Paramount—your own and others. Be visible (luminous monogrammed jack- et) and wear protective clothing where appropriate (safety helmet; waterproofs; boots; respirator in chemical environment). Triage: See OHCS p800. There are several commercial systems available to label pa- tients so emergency personnel can see at a glance the scale of the incident. The key is to divide patients by the urgency of care/transfer to hospital: 1 Emergency (labelR ED = will die in a few minutes if no treatment) 2 Urgent (labelY ELLOW =will die in ~2h if no treatment) 3 Non-urgent (labelG REEN = walking wounded/those who are stable and can wait) 4 Deceased (labelB LUE/WHITE). Communications: Essential; each emergency service will dispatch a control vehicle and will have a designated incident offi cer for liaison. Support medical staff from hospital report to the medical incident offi cer (MIO)—he or she is usually the fi rst doctor on the scene. Their job is to assess then communicate to the receiving hos- pital the number + severity of casualties, to organize resupply of equipment and to replace fatigued staff . The MIO must resist temptation to treat casualties as this compromises their role. Equipment: Must be portable and include: intubation and cricothyrotomy set; intra- venous fl uids (colloid); bandages and dressings; chest drain (+fl utter valve); amputa- tion kit (when used, ideally 2 doctors should concur); drugs—analgesic: morphine; anaesthetic: ketamine 2mg/kg IV over >60s (0.5mg/kg is a powerful analgesic with- out respiratory depression); limb splints (may be infl atable); defi brillator/monitor ± pulse oximeter. Evacuation: Remember that with immediate treatment on scene, the priority for evacuation may be reduced (eg a tension pneumothorax—RED—once relieved can wait for evacuation and becomes YELLOW), but those who
