Handbook of Clinical medicine
KEYWORDS: patient, disease, history, patients, pain, heart, symptoms, time, ask, pulse, chest, risk, eff, examination, aortic


Evacuation: Remember that with immediate treatment on scene, the priority for evacuation may be reduced (eg a tension pneumothorax—RED—once relieved can wait for evacuation and becomes YELLOW), but those who may suff er by delay at the scene must go fi rst. Send any severed limbs to the same hospital as the patient, ideally chilled—but not frozen. At the hospital A ‘major incident’ is declared. The fi rst receiving hospital will take most of the casualties; the support hospital(s) will cope with overfl ow and may provide mobile teams so that staff are not depleted from the fi rst hospital. A control room is established and the medical coordinator ensures staff have been summoned and informed of their roles, nominates a triage offi cer, and supervises the best use of inpatient beds and ICU/theatre resources. __OOHHCCMM__1100ee..iinnddbb 885500 0022//0055//22001177 1199::0099 seicnegremE Blast injuries 851 These may be caused by domestic (eg gas explosion) or industrial (eg mining) accidents, or by terrorist bombs. Death may occur without any obvious external injury. Injury occurs in a number of ways: 1 Blast wave: A transient (milliseconds) wave of overpressure expands rapidly producing cellular disruption, shearing forces along tissue planes (submuco sal/ subserosal haemorrhage) and re-expansion of compressed trapped gas—bowel perforation, fatal air embolism. 2 Blast wind: This can totally disrupt a body or cause avulsive amputations. Bod- ies can be thrown and sustain injuries on landing. 3 Missiles: Penetration or laceration from missiles are by far the commonest injuries. Missiles arise from the bomb or are secondary, eg glass. 4 Flash burns: These are usually superfi cial and occur on exposed skin. 5 Crush injuries: Beware sudden death or acute kidney injury from rhabdomy- olysis after release. 6 Contamination: There is increasing concern about the use of biological or radi- oactive material in terrorist bombs. Even domestic or industrial blasts can scat- ter chemicals widely and cause both superfi cial and penetrating contamination. Consider the location and mechanism of the blast, and seek advice. 7 Psychological injury: Eg post-traumatic stress disorder (OHCS p353). Treatment: Approach the same as any major trauma (OHCS p778). Rest and observe any suspected of exposure to signifi cant blast but without other injury. Gun-shot injury: see OHCS p789. Major blast injuries, whatever the cause, should be reported to the police for investigation.
