Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


22–1 CHAPTER 22 KIDNEY DISEASE IN DIABETES Meda E. Pavkov, MD, PhD, Allan J. Collins, MD, Josef Coresh, MD, PhD, and Robert G. Nelson, MD, PhD Dr. Meda E. Pavkov is Senior Medical Epidemiologist in the Chronic Kidney Disease Initiative, Division for Diabetes Translation, at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA. Dr. Allan J. Collins is Director of the Chronic Disease Research Group, Minneapolis Medical Research Foundation, and Professor in the Department of Medicine, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN. Dr. Josef Coresh is the G.W. Comstock Professor of Epidemiology, Biostatistics & Medicine, Director of the G.W. Comstock Center for Public Health Research & Prevention, and Director of the Cardiovascular Epidemiology Training Program at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD. Dr. Robert G. Nelson is Senior Investigator and Chief of the Chronic Kidney Disease Section, Phoenix Epidemiology and Clinical Research Branch, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Phoenix, AZ. Received in final form July 21, 2015, with an update on July 10, 2017. SUMMARY Persons with diabetes make up the fastest growing group of kidney dialysis and transplant recipients in the United States. In 1985, when the first edition of Diabetes in America was published, 20,961 persons with diabetes were receiving renal replacement therapy, representing 29% of all new cases of end-stage renal disease (ESRD). By 2012, 239,837 persons with diabetes were on renal replacement therapy, accounting for 44% of all new ESRD cases. The increased count reflects growth in diabetes prevalence and increased access to dialysis and transplantation. Those with a primary diagnosis of diabetes have lower survival relative to other causes of ESRD, primarily because of the coexistent morbidity associated with diabetes, particularly cardiovascular diseases (CVD). While survival on dialysis has slowly improved across modalities since the 1990s, it remains reduced in persons with diabetes, half of whom die within 3 years of beginning dialysis in the United States. Similar to persons with ESRD in general, the leading causes of death among adults with diabetes who started dialysis in 1995–2009 were CVD (58% of the deaths) and infections (13% of the deaths). Kidney transplant recipients with diabetes have much better survival than those on dialysis, indicating a significant impact of the type of renal replacement therapy (transplant versus dialysis) on long-term survival. Kidney failure affects about 1% of persons with diabetes in
