Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


those on dialysis, indicating a significant impact of the type of renal replacement therapy (transplant versus dialysis) on long-term survival. Kidney failure affects about 1% of persons with diabetes in the United States. A considerably higher proportion, about 40%, have less severe kidney disease. Since the second edition of Diabetes in America was published in 1995, a wealth of new information has contributed substantially to the understanding of kidney disease associated with diabetes. In 2002, the National Kidney Foundation’s Kidney Disease Outcome Quality Initiative published a uniform definition of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and classification of its stages irrespective of underlying cause, thus providing a common language for defining both the severity and prognosis of kidney disease. The definition and classification of CKD were subsequently updated and refined by the Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes in 2012. Accordingly, CKD is classified based on both albuminuria and glomerular filtration rate (GFR) categories, and together with kidney failure, these conditions are collectively referred to as CKD, regardless of etiology. In addition, the Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes recommends using equations to estimate GFR (eGFR), which include the routinely obtained variables serum creatinine, age, sex, and race/ethnicity. The use of serum cystatin C, an endogenous filtration marker less influenced than serum creatinine by variations in muscle mass, diet, and tubular secretion, has emerged as an alternative or an adjunct to serum creatinine-based equations, particularly in persons with diabetes, in whom early kidney disease is often characterized by elevated GFR. Since the late 1990s, new molecular mechanisms have been defined that are helping to explain the development and progression of diabetic kidney disease. Glomerular structural lesions were found to explain 95% of the variability in albumin excretion and 78% of GFR variability. The latter percentage increased to 92% by adding indices of glomerular-tubular junction abnormalities and interstitial expansion to the regression models. Podocyte injury appears to play an essential role in the progression of diabetic nephropathy. In persons with either type 1 or type 2 diabetes, podocyte changes may occur even before the increase in albuminuria, suggesting that diabetes itself may induce podocyte alterations. Much has also been written about the prognostic implications of CKD. Elevated albuminuria and low GFR are associated with ESRD, fatal and nonfatal CVD, and all-cause mortality. A meta-analysis of 1,024,977 participants (nearly 13% with diabetes) from 30 general population and high-risk cardiovascular cohorts and 13 CKD cohorts indicated that
