Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


fatal and nonfatal CVD, and all-cause mortality. A meta-analysis of 1,024,977 participants (nearly 13% with diabetes) from 30 general population and high-risk cardiovascular cohorts and 13 CKD cohorts indicated that while the absolute risks for all-cause and CVD mortality are higher in the presence of diabetes, the relative risks of ESRD or death by eGFR and albuminuria are similar with or without diabetes. These findings underscore the importance of kidney disease per se as a predictor of important clinical outcomes, regardless of the underlying cause of kidney disease. New biomarkers of diabetic kidney disease appear to have additional prognostic information beyond that provided by albuminuria. These markers include kidney injury molecule 1, liver fatty acid-binding protein, 22–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition N-acetyl-β-D-glucosaminidase, neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin, β-trace protein, β2-microglobulin, and tumor necrosis factor receptors 1 and 2. Many concepts about risk factors for CKD illustrated in this chapter have not changed since 1995, and where they have, those changes are discussed. In particular, major advances have been made in elucidating the genetic and epigenetic complexity of CKD, which contributed to defining cellular metabolic memory and the understanding of the longlasting effects of strict glycemic control observed in persons with type 1 diabetes or type 2 diabetes. Improvements in the management of persons with diabetes and CKD have extended the time course from onset of severe albuminuria to ESRD and reduced the occurrence of CVD. In type 1 diabetes, the combined Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) and its long-term follow-up, the Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications (EDIC) observational study, indicated that intensive early metabolic control reduced the risk of impaired GFR by 50% and of CVD outcomes by 42%, with a specific 57% decrease in myocar­ dial infarction, stroke, or death from CVD, effects that were partly mediated by the reduced incidence of diabetic kidney disease. Among persons with type 2 diabetes, a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials indicated that more intensive glycemic control (glyco­ sylated hemoglobin [A1c] <7%) was associated with a significant 10% reduction in albuminuria but had no effects on mortality, kidney failure, or other vascular outcomes. The Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes (ACCORD) trial, targeting an A1c level <6.0% in the intensive intervention arm, reported an increased risk of CVD death for intensive versus conventional glycemic control, although it remains unclear whether this effect was related to more hypoglycemic episodes, the use of
