Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


arm, reported an increased risk of CVD death for intensive versus conventional glycemic control, although it remains unclear whether this effect was related to more hypoglycemic episodes, the use of additional hypoglycemic medicines, or to the target glycemic level itself. Likewise, the modest gains in intermediate outcomes in the intensive treatment arms of the Action in Diabetes and Vascular Disease: Preterax and Diamicron Modified Release Controlled Evaluation (ADVANCE) and the Veterans Affairs Diabetes (VADT) trial were counterbalanced by a twofold to threefold higher risk of severe hypoglycemia. Together, these trials indicate that glycemic control is extremely useful up to a point, but more aggressive glycemic control may be harmful. Similarly, for blood pressure control, 2014–2015 recommendations by the guideline-writing groups endorse less intensive and more individualized blood pressure targets for diabetes and CKD than in the past. Persons with diabetes and CKD require multidisciplinary management involving a combination of treatments and behavioral adjustments to delay progression of CKD and to prevent the associated complications. The Steno-2 study, a landmark prospective, randomized trial in Denmark, demonstrated that compared with conventional treatment, inten­ sive multifactorial intervention led to 46% lower death rate, 56% less severe albuminuria, 43% lower incidence of diabetic retinopathy, and 47% lower incidence of autonomic neuropathy during the 13.3-year study period. INTRODUCTION Important progress has been made since 1995, when the previous edition of Diabetes in America was published, in understanding the course and determinants of diabetic kidney disease and in its treatment (1,2,3,4,5,6,7). Widely accepted criteria for staging of chronic kidney disease (CKD) have been developed, based on the assessment of albuminuria and estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) (7)—estimates of GFR and CKD staging criteria had not yet been developed in 1995. Nevertheless, kidney disease is still a major cause of morbidity and mortality in persons with diabetes, as indicated by the dramatic increase in the number of persons receiving renal replacement therapy since the 1980s. Increased availability of dialysis and transplants and the rising prevalence of diabetes are primarily responsible for this trend. Because kidney disease in diabetes is strongly associated with cardiovascular disease (CVD) and the development of end-stage renal disease (ESRD), the combined cost incurred by CKD and diabetes is associated with a greater percentage of the Medicare budget than that associated with congestive heart failure alone (2). For people with diabetes and kidney disease, the overall Medicare expenditures were approximately $25 billion in 2011
