Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


of the Medicare budget than that associated with congestive heart failure alone (2). For people with diabetes and kidney disease, the overall Medicare expenditures were approximately $25 billion in 2011 (2). Projected increases in diabetes prevalence and the increasing frequency of both type 1 and type 2 diabetes in young people threaten to reverse the modest progress achieved with available treatments. Not only is the course of kidney disease in youth-onset type 2 diabetes more aggressive than in type 1 diabetes (4,5), but the Treatment Options for type 2 Diabetes in Adolescents and Youth (TODAY) study suggests it may also be more treatment resistant than kidney disease in adults with type 2 diabetes (6). Although the development of new therapeutic options is essential for improving the management of this complex disease, diabetes prevention may ultimately offer the greatest benefit for stemming the rising tide of diabetic kidney disease. This chapter has been updated to incorpo­ rate the substantial advances made in the past 20 years in the understanding of the pathogenesis, course, and management of CKD in persons with diabetes. It is not a systematic review of the literature but draws from recent publications that did perform such reviews. It also reflects the opinions of the authors about the challenges that may face persons with diabetes and CKD and those who care for them. Kidney Disease in Diabetes 22–3 DEFINITION, MEASUREMENTS, AND CLASSIFICATION CKD attributable to diabetes, referred to as diabetic kidney disease, is defined by reduced kidney function or the presence of kidney damage for at least 3 months, regardless of kidney function (7). Kidney damage is ascertained by increased urinary markers, such as albuminuria, or by abnormal urinary sediment, abnormal imaging studies, or kidney biopsy (7). The clinical diagnosis of diabetic kidney disease is based largely on the finding of elevated excretion of urinary albumin in a person with diabetes in the absence of other kidney disease. Persons are classified as having elevated albuminuria if the albumin-to-creatinine ratio (ACR) in at least two urine samples collected within 3–6 months is ≥30 mg/g in the absence of clinical or laboratory evidence of urinary tract infection (7). Elevated albuminuria, the earliest marker of diabetic nephropathy, is frequently associated with a progressive decline in kidney function and a high risk for kidney failure and CVD. Although albuminuria is a continuous risk factor, it is often arbitrarily divided into moderately increased albu­
