Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


progressive decline in kidney function and a high risk for kidney failure and CVD. Although albuminuria is a continuous risk factor, it is often arbitrarily divided into moderately increased albu­ minuria (ACR 30–299 mg/g)—generally characterized by stable kidney function and a greater risk for higher levels of albuminuria than an ACR <30 mg/g— and severely increased albuminuria (ACR ≥300 mg/g), associated with arterial hypertension and a high risk of kidney failure (Table 22.1) (8). Moderate albuminuria is also referred to as micro­ albuminuria, and severe albuminuria as macroalbuminuria, overt nephropathy, or clinical proteinuria. Because albuminuria occurs as a continuum, the American Diabetes Association (ADA) recommends simply using the term albuminuria for an ACR ≥30 mg/g (9). Urinary albumin excretion can be determined from 24-hour, overnight, or shorter urine collection periods; however, urinary ACR measured in a first morning void specimen is highly correlated with the 24-hour albumin excre­ tion rate and is therefore an established and recommended way to assess urinary albumin excretion. Differences in methods of urine collection, albumin and creatinine measurements, reporting of results, and lack of standardized reference intervals for ACR often make comparisons between studies difficult. Reduced kidney function is defined by a GFR <60 mL/min/1.73 m2, and kidney failure by a GFR <15 mL/min/1.73 m2 (Table 22.2) (7,8). Accurate determina­ tion of GFR is best achieved by infusing special markers into the bloodstream that are filtered at the glomerulus, but not secreted or reabsorbed by the tubules (e.g., inulin, iothalamate, iohexol, or 51Cr-EDTA), and measuring their disappearance from the blood or their appearance in the urine. Because such testing is laborious and expensive to use in large populations, the National Kidney Foundation (NKF) recommends using equations to estimate GFR that include the routinely obtained variables serum creatinine, age, sex, and race/ ethnicity. The Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) study equation (10) is the most widely used equation for estimating GFR in adults in the office setting and is reasonably accurate when the estimate is <60 mL/min/1.73 m2 (11). Precision is lower and bias is higher at higher eGFR values, due in part to declining precision of creatinine measurement at its lower concentrations (12). The newer Chronic Kidney Disease Epidemiology Collaboration equation uses the same variables as the MDRD equation but with reduced bias and TABLE 22.1. Albuminuria Categories According to KDIGO Classification KDIGO CLASSIFICATION EQUIVALENT Normal to Mildly Increased (A1) Moderately Increased (A2)*
