Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


of histological evidence, these persons should be considered to have diabetes and CKD and may require further investigation. SOURCE: Reference 14, copyright © 2007 Elsevier, reprinted with permission Classification of Chronic Kidney Disease to Indicate Prognosis Based on the Combined Measures of Albuminuria and Estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate Chart showing C K D class ification based on albumin uria categories ranging from normal to severely increased and G F R categories ranging from normal to kidney failure CKD stages based on both albuminuria and GFR levels are indicated in each cell. Symbols rank adjusted relative risk for five outcomes from a meta-analysis of general population cohorts: all-cause mortality, cardiovascular mortality, kidney failure treated by dialysis and transplantation, acute kidney injury, and progression of kidney disease. CKD, chronic kidney disease; GFR, glomerular filtration rate; KDIGO, Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes. * Low risk (if no other markers of kidney disease) † Moderately increased risk ‡ High risk § Very high risk SOURCE: Reference 8, copyright © 2013 Elsevier, reprinted with permission; and Reference 18 Kidney Disease in Diabetes 22–5 TABLE 22.4. Situations That Prompt Consideration of Nondiabetic Cause(s) of Chronic Kidney Disease Absence of diabetic retinopathy Low or rapidly decreasing GFR Rapidly increasing proteinuria or nephrotic syndrome Refractory hypertension Presence of active urinary sediment Signs or symptoms of other systemic disease 30% reduction in GFR within 2–3 months after initiation of an ACE inhibitor or ARB ACE, angiotensin-converting enzyme; ARB, angiotensin II receptor blocker; GFR, glomerular filtration rate. SOURCE: Adapted from Reference 14 PATHOPHYSIOLOGY AND CLINICAL COURSE Diabetic kidney disease typically progresses through a number of phases in which albumin or protein excretion increases, and GFR may rise and subse­ quently falls, frequently culminating in uremia or ESRD (Figure 22.2) (20,21). A diagram of the typical clinical progression of diabetic kidney disease and some of the factors contributing to it is shown in Figure 22.3 (22,23,24,25,26,27,28,29). The clinical manifestations of kidney disease are similar in both type 1 and type 2 diabetes. The major histologic changes of diabetic kidney disease and their relationships with kidney disease progression are discussed in detail in the Morphometry section. ALBUMIN EXCRETION Urinary albumin excretion is usually normal at the diagnosis of type 1 diabetes, except when ketoacidosis is present. Moderate albuminuria in the early years of diabetes is associated with poor metabolic control but is frequently transitory (21,30,31,32,33,34) and rarely persistent in the first 5
