Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


when ketoacidosis is present. Moderate albuminuria in the early years of diabetes is associated with poor metabolic control but is frequently transitory (21,30,31,32,33,34) and rarely persistent in the first 5 years (35). With treatment, normalization of albuminuria occurs in 58% of persons with type 1 diabetes (36), whereas persistent regression without treatment is observed in 16% (37). Glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c) <8% (<64 mmol/mol), systolic blood pressure <115 mmHg, and low levels of both cholesterol (<198 mg/dL [<5.13 mmol/L]) and triglycerides (<145 mg/dL [<1.64 mmol/L]) are associated with the regression of albuminuria (36). Persons with persistent moderate albuminuria often progress to severe albuminuria (34) over a period of 10–20 years (3%–4% per year) (37,38), with hypertension and proliferative retinopathy also developing with advancing disease. Once overt nephropathy develops, albuminuria regression is less frequent (34,39), and the GFR generally falls at a variable rate (2–20 mL/min/year) (37). Because the onset of type 2 diabetes is more insidious, poor glycemic control and elevated blood pressure may be present for several years before diagnosis, and therefore, elevated albuminuria is also frequently present at diabetes diagnosis. Approximately 3% of newly diagnosed persons with type 2 diabetes have severe albuminuria (37). The course of urinary protein excretion in type 2 diabetes is more heterogeneous than in persons with type 1 diabetes, in part reflecting a greater heterogeneity of kidney lesions due to the relatively higher prevalence of nondiabetic FIGURE 22.2. Outline of the Natural History of Diabetic Kidney Disease in Persons With Type 1 Diabetes Line graph s ho wing G F R initial ly increases i n persons wi th diagnosed diabetes the n dec re ase s po tent ially to E S R D, w he reas albumin excretion rises throughout diabetes duration Figure is based on data from 20 men, all of whom developed nephropathy; time between the first examination and follow-up averaged 12±3 years; not all persons had both examinations. Curved lines represent the typical course of GFR (log scale) and UAE; the box in the GFR panel represents the mean±standard deviation of GFR in healthy subjects; the small vertical box in the UAE panel represents the normal range of UAE; and the large horizontal box represents the moderate albuminuria range. GFR, glomerular filtration rate; UAE, urinary albumin excretion. SOURCE: Reference 21, copyright © 1990 American Diabetes Association, reprinted with permission from The American Diabetes Association 22–6 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd
