Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


but usually not to levels found in nondiabetic persons (47,69,70,71). In some, this reversal could reflect the initiation of progressive kidney disease, as suggested by the appearance of global glomerular sclerosis and the fall in single-nephron filtration coefficient (72); in others, it could represent a purely functional change in kidney vasomotion associated with improvement in diabetes control or simply the intrinsic variability in GFR in the absence of significant histo­ pathologic changes (73). Distinguishing between these two potential causes of GFR decline requires either observation of GFR over a long period of time to determine whether it plateaus, reverses FIGURE 22.3. Risk Factors For and Clinical Course of Kidney Disease in Diabetes The thick horizontal arrows represent the reversibility of albuminuria with progressive kidney disease. BMI, body mass index; BP, blood pressure; ESRD, end-stage renal disease; GFR, glomerular filtration rate; IGT, impaired glucose tolerance. SOURCE: Reference 22 FIGURE 22.4. Mean Glomerular Filtration Rate in Men With Newly Diagnosed Type 1 Diabetes and No Diabetes Subjects were 31 nondiabetic men and 11 men with newly diagnosed and untreated type 1 diabetes; horizontal lines are mean±standard deviation. The mean GFR was 41% higher in the diabetic subjects than in the nondiabetic subjects. GFR, glomerular filtration rate. SOURCE: Reference 49, copyright © 1971 Informa Healthcare, reprinted with permission Kidney Disease in Diabetes 22–7 direction, or continues to decline to pathologic levels, or attention to other biomarkers, including albuminuria. Coincident with the initial elevation of GFR at the diagnosis of diabetes is slightly elevated urinary albumin excre­ tion, although levels in the moderate albuminuria range or above are usually seen only after several years of diabetes (Figure 22.3) (22). The GFR in persons with moderate albuminuria is higher, on average, than in those with normal urinary albumin excretion (74,75). In those with severe albuminuria, it is lower, although in type 2 diabetes, GFR may still be within the normal range (76,77). Cross-sectional data suggest that GFR declines in persons with severe albuminuria, reflecting progressive glomerulosclerosis and loss of filtration surface area. Longitudinal studies confirm this hypothesis (78,79). The absence of albuminuria, however, does not preclude the presence of progressive kidney damage (see the section Incidence of Elevated Urinary Albumin Excretion) (80). Kidney hemodynamic alterations induced by hyperglycemia and hypertension are believed to cause mechanical stretch and shear stress on endothelial cells and the mesangium, activating complex biochemical pathways that increase extracellular matrix production, hyper­
