Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


induced by hyperglycemia and hypertension are believed to cause mechanical stretch and shear stress on endothelial cells and the mesangium, activating complex biochemical pathways that increase extracellular matrix production, hyper­ glycemia-induced injury, and podocyte damage and loss. These alterations ultimately lead to defects in selective glomerular capillary permeability, albu­ minuria, protein extravasation into the glomerular mesangium, expansion of mesangial matrix, and glomerulosclerosis (81,82,83,84,85,86,87,88). MORPHOMETRY The histologic changes in the kidneys of persons with type 1 diabetes and CKD are well described, typically homogenous, and predict development of elevated albu­ minuria, ESRD, and cardiovascular death (89,90,91). On the other hand, the kidney lesions underlying CKD in type 2 diabetes are more heterogeneous (92,93). Whether the natural history of CKD in diabetes varies by histologic lesion remains unknown, although longitudinal studies suggest a relationship between renal lesions and GFR decline (94,95). This section reviews the morphometric charac­ teristics of diabetic kidney disease. To appear in the urine, albumin must cross each layer of the glomerular filtra­ tion barrier consisting of the endothelial surface layer, fenestrated endothelial cells, glomerular basement membrane, and the glomerular epithelial cells or podocytes. Elevated albuminuria is an early clinical indicator of diabetic kidney disease, reflecting at the glomerular level the destruction of the endothelial surface layer (96,97,98,99), reduction in size and density of endothelial cell fenestrations (100,101,102), and thickening of the base­ ment membranes. Subsequent mesangial expansion and podocyte injury and detachment further increase albuminuria, decreasing the available capillary filtration surface and leading to glomerulosclerosis. In addition to the glomerular morphologic lesions, diabetes progressively affects the kidney tubules, interstitium, and arterioles. One of the earliest structural abnor­ malities in diabetes is thickening of the glomerular and tubular basement membranes due to excessive deposition of normal extracellular matrix components (85,93,103,104). Glomerular basement membrane thickening strongly correlates with albuminuria and less with GFR, suggesting that it is a good indicator of early diabetic kidney disease. This alteration is followed by an increase in the mesangial volume per glomerulus (fractional mesangial volume), primarily through expansion of the mesangial matrix, with the increase in the volume fraction of the mesangial cellular compo­ nent playing a secondary role (105). The fractional mesangial volume is correlated inversely with GFR, and positively with ACR and hypertension (57,104,106), and is therefore a strong predictor of progres­ sive kidney dysfunction (Figure 22.6) (107). Virtually all persons with type 1 diabetes and advanced kidney disease have markedly thickened
