Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


hypertension (57,104,106), and is therefore a strong predictor of progres­ sive kidney dysfunction (Figure 22.6) (107). Virtually all persons with type 1 diabetes and advanced kidney disease have markedly thickened glomerular base­ ment membrane and diffuse mesangial expansion. About 25% of persons with >10 years of diabetes duration present with Kimmelstiel-Wilson nodules, which are rounded, paucicellular, lamellated accumulations of mesangial matrix at the periphery of the glomerulus (108,109). Kimmelstiel-Wilson lesions correlate with longer diabetes duration, higher serum creatinine, and more severe diabetic retinopathy (110). Mesangial expansion changes the architecture of the glomerular FIGURE 22.5. Glomerular Filtration Rate and Renal Plasma Flow in Individuals With Type 2 Diabetes and Without Diabetes GFR and effective renal plasma flow were measured in 110 persons with type 2 diabetes and 32 nondiabetic subjects; mean values are shown for each group. Mean GFR averaged 23% higher and renal plasma flow 13% higher in the diabetic subjects. GFR, glomerular filtration rate. SOURCE: Reference 51, copyright © 1992 Elsevier, reprinted with permission 22–8 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition tuft, restricts the cellular component, distorts and occludes glomerular capil­ laries, decreasing the available capillary filtration surface and contributing to the decline in kidney function. Glomerular hypertrophy may compensate for the loss of filtration surface area, providing a means by which GFR is maintained in progressive kidney disease (111). Podocyte injury appears to play an essential role in the progression of diabetic nephropathy. The podocyte with its extended foot processes, provides structural support for the glomerular capillaries, as well as hydraulic resistance, and prevents the escape of proteins into the urinary space (112). With glomer­ ular hypertrophy, the podocytes, which have a limited proliferative potential (113,114,115,116), stretch their foot processes more broadly to maintain coverage of the expanded glomerular basement membrane, a compensatory mechanism believed to influence their functional integrity (117). In addition, glomerular endothelial cell dysfunction, which precedes podocyte injury (100), appears to contribute to the latter through several mechanisms, including protein overload and toxicity at the podocyte level due to saturation of clearance mechanisms (118), increased shear stress (97), decreased endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) expression and activity (119,120), and production of cytokines, proteoglycans, and growth factors (100). Podocytes are known to absorb excess albumin arriving in the surrounding urinary space, and this increased workload may initiate inflammatory signaling and contribute to changes in podocyte- associated molecules and foot process effacement (121,122). Sustained mechan­ ical stress and
