Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


from the presence of large pores within the glomerular capillary wall through which plasma proteins can easily pass (195,196,197,198). Morphometric data 22–10 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition in participants with severe albuminuria identified a significant correlation between the shunt magnitude and podocyte foot process width (p=0.027) (Figure 22.11) (194), which was not discernible in participants with moderate albuminuria. A similar size-selectivity defect has been reported in type 1 diabetes (190,195). These findings are consistent with the view that permselectivity defects responsible for increased albumin excretion may be focal and likely due to podocyte foot process effacement and simplification and, possibly, to defective intercellular junctions (199). With the application in the late 1990s of multiphoton fluorescence techniques to kidney research, direct imaging of the structure and function of living kidney tissue was possible (200). In some studies, this technique revealed what appeared to be a much higher albumin glomerular sieving coefficient than was calculated or measured by micropuncture, prompting some investigators to propose alternative explanations for the facilitated urinary clearance of albumin in diabetic kidney disease (200,201), including the idea that elevated albuminuria is the result of a proximal tubular cell dysfunction in retrieving and degrading albumin and does not reflect an alteration in glomerular permselectivity (201,202). Later studies using improved imaging techniques do not support this concept and confirm that glomerular filtration barrier permeability to macromolecules is largely restricted to areas of podocyte damage (203,204,205). FIGURE 22.8. Fractional Dextran Clearance Profile in Pima Indians With and Without Type 2 Diabetes The figure compares the fractional dextran clearance profile in persons with type 2 diabetes and those with normal glucose tolerance. Fractional dextran clearances in subjects with diabetes were uniformly elevated over the entire range of molecular radii tested. The elevation was most marked at the large radius end of the profile, with statistically significant differences (p<0.05) for dextrans of ≥48 Å radius. SOURCE: Reference 56 FIGURE 22.9. Dextran Sieving Curves in Pima Indians With Type 2 Diabetes Sieving coefficient was measured in 31 persons with diabetes and severe albuminuria at 48 months follow-up (▵) and 11 diabetic controls with long-term normoalbuminuria (○). Lines are best-fit splines. A significant elevation of the sieving curve at its large-radius end and a tendency toward depression at the low-radius end is found in persons with severe albuminuria. Error bars represent one standard deviation. ESR, Einstein-Stokes radius. * p<0.05 SOURCE: Reference 194, copyright © 2000
