Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


in general, the leading causes of death among adults with diabetes who started dialysis in 1995–2009 were CVD, representing 58% of the deaths, and infections, representing 13% of the deaths; malignancy accounted for 3% and withdrawal from dialysis for 5% of the deaths. Nonetheless, the adjusted annual death rate in patients with diabetes as a primary cause of ESRD improved steadily since 1985, more so than among patients with other causes of ESRD (Appendix 22.5) (1). Kidney transplant recipients with diabetes have much better survival than those on dialysis, as shown in Figure 22.28 (1). In 2012, the adjusted death rate in those with diabetes-related kidney transplant was 45 cases per 1,000 person-years at risk, significantly lower than the 186 cases per 1,000 person-years among those on dialysis, and lower even than the 88 cases per 1,000 person-years among those on the waiting list for kidney transplant, although the transplant candidates are presumably similar in other respects to those who receive transplants (329,330). The lifespan increase after kidney transplant was greater among persons with ESRD due to diabetes than to other causes (331), indicating a significant impact of the type of renal replacement therapy (transplant versus dialysis) on long-term survival. FIGURE 22.29. Hazard Ratios for Death From Any Cause Among Non-Hispanic American Indians With Diabetes at Initiation of Hemodialysis, by Degree of American Indian Ancestry Information on American Indian ancestry was obtained from the IHS patient database. The reference group is non-Hispanic whites on hemodialysis with a primary diagnosis of diabetes (dashed horizontal line). The capped vertical lines represent 95% confidence intervals around the hazard ratio estimates. Hazard ratios are adjusted for sex, age, body mass index, estimated glomerular filtration rate, current smoking status, erythropoietin treatment, history of hypertension, cardiovascular disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or malignancy. AI/AN, American Indian/Alaska Native; HR, hazard ratio; IHS, Indian Health Service. SOURCE: Reference 284, copyright © 2014 American Public Health Association, reprinted with permission RISK FACTORS FOR DIABETIC KIDNEY DISEASE Numerous risk factors have been identi­ fied for the development and progression of diabetic kidney disease. In this section, the evidence for some of the more promi­ nent factors is reviewed. DURATION OF DIABETES One of the most important risk factors for diabetic kidney disease is the duration of diabetes, its influence being far greater than that of age, sex, or type of diabetes. For a given duration of diabetes, the cumulative incidences
