Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


in Diabetes 22–31 Hyperglycemia induces hyperfiltration, a predictor of progressive kidney disease (59,60,61,353,354). In diabetic rats, normalization of blood glucose levels reverses hyperfiltration (355), and insulin infusion reduces the glomerular capil­ lary hydraulic pressure (86). In humans, therapeutic interventions that improve glycemic control reduce hyperfiltration in both type 1 and type 2 diabetes (86,356). Persistent hyperglycemia also causes dysregulation of a number of effector molecules through several biochemical pathways in the kidney, including gener­ ation and accumulation of advanced glycation endproducts, increased activity of the polyol pathway, and activation of vasoactive hormones, such as angiotensin II and endothelin (357,358,359). Activated prosclerotic cytokines, such as trans­ forming growth factor beta (TGF-β) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), are important mediators between meta­ bolic and hemodynamic pathways leading to pathologic changes of the glomerular filtration barrier (Figure 22.32) (357). Further evidence for the role of hyper­ glycemia in the development of diabetic glomerular lesions comes from biopsy studies in identical twins discordant for type 1 diabetes (360) and from morpho­ logic studies before and after pancreas transplantation (361). Glomerular changes, including widened glomerular and tubular basement membranes and increased mesangial fraction, were identified only in the diabetic member of twin pairs (Figure 22.33), suggesting that metabolic status, and not genetic predisposition, is respon­ sible for the development of diabetic kidney lesions (360). Prolonged normo­ glycemia following pancreas transplant in persons with type 1 diabetes and estab­ lished diabetic kidney disease promotes virtually complete reversal of glomerular and tubular basement membrane thick­ ness and of increases in mesangial and interstitial volumes (Figure 22.34) (361). HYPERTENSION High blood pressure is related to diabetic kidney disease in many cross-sectional and longitudinal studies of both type 1 and type 2 diabetes. In type 1 diabetes, this relationship frequently reflects elevation of blood pressure in response to kidney disease (362,363,364,365); whereas in type 2 diabetes, the onset of hypertension generally precedes diabetic kidney disease and is often associated with obesity. The risk of kidney disease is three times as high in persons with type 1 diabetes who have a hypertensive parent as in those whose parents are not hypertensive (Figure 22.35) (366). In addition, those with kidney disease have a higher prevalence of parental hypertension and a higher mean arterial blood pressure during adoles­ cence (367). Increased blood pressure during sleep may herald the development of moderate albuminuria in adolescents and young adults with type 1 diabetes,
