Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


higher mean arterial blood pressure during adoles­ cence (367). Increased blood pressure during sleep may herald the development of moderate albuminuria in adolescents and young adults with type 1 diabetes, as shown in Figure 22.36 (368). In that study, blood pressure was monitored at 2-year intervals for up to 9 years or as long as the ACR was in the normal range; a ratio of ≤0.9 between the mean nighttime systolic pressure and the mean daytime systolic pressure defined the dipping during sleep. Moderate albuminuria did not develop in those with poor metabolic control in whom blood pressure remained normal, suggesting that nocturnal elevation in blood pressure may identify those with type 1 diabetes who are most susceptible to progression of kidney disease. FIGURE 22.30. Four-Year Incidence of Proteinuria in Type 1 Diabetes, By Glycosylated Hemoglobin (A1c) Level, Wisconsin, 1980–1986 Proteinuria is defined as urinary protein excretion ≥0.30 g/L, determined by reagent strip. Conversions for A1c values are provided in Diabetes in America Appendix 1 Conversions. SOURCE: Reference 233 FIGURE 22.31. Incidence of Proteinuria in Pima Indians With Type 2 Diabetes, by OGTT Glucose Level and Diabetes Duration Incidence of proteinuria (protein-to-creatinine ratio ≥1.0 g/g) by duration of diabetes in 480 Pima Indians with type 2 diabetes, according to tertiles of 2-hour plasma glucose concentration after 75 g oral glucose, measured at diagnosis of diabetes. Conversions for glucose values are provided in Diabetes in America Appendix 1 Conversions. OGTT, 2-hour oral glucose tolerance test. SOURCE: Reference 238, copyright © 1989 Elsevier, reprinted with permission 22–32 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition In Pima Indian offspring with type 2 diabetes, the prevalence of proteinuria was similar if neither parent or only one parent had hypertension (8.9% and 9.4%, respectively) but was significantly higher if both parents had hypertension (18.8%), after adjustment for age, sex, duration of diabetes, and 2-hour postload plasma glucose concentration in the offspring and diabetes in the parents (369). The odds for proteinuria in the offspring when both parents had hypertension was 2.2 times (95% CI 1.2–4.2) that when only one parent had hypertension. This relationship was present even when controlled for the effects of blood pressure and its treat­ ment in the offspring. In addition, higher blood pressure before the onset of type 2 diabetes was related to a higher preva­ lence of elevated albuminuria after the onset of diabetes, suggesting that blood pressure plays a causal role
