Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


Oxidized LDL and free fatty acids can cause structural and functional damage to podocytes by inducing mitochondrial dysfunction and accumulation of reac­ tive oxygen species (414), suggesting a direct causal role in the development and progression of proteinuria. Experimental rodent models of type 1 and type 2 diabetes indicate that down-regulation of glomerular ATP-binding cassette transporter (ABCA1) expression can lead to excessive cholesterol accumulation in podocytes (415,416). Under normal conditions, ABCA1 mediates the efflux of cholesterol to lipid-poor apolipoproteins (primarily Apo A1) to form HDLs. This mechanism has also been demonstrated in glomerular transcripts from persons with diabetic kidney disease when compared with living normal controls (417,418). Nevertheless, a definitive role for dyslipidemia in the development and progression of diabetic kidney disease in humans remains to be established. DIETARY PROTEIN In epidemiologic studies, higher-protein diets are associated with development of diabetes, as well as with greater risk of kidney damage or loss of function, especially in individuals with diabetes, hypertension, and/or reduced kidney function. These risks are mainly confined to animal meat intake. Vegetable or dairy proteins do not appear to adversely affect kidney health (419,420). In experimental models, excessive protein intake causes kidney vasodilation and glomerular hyperperfusion with a resulting increase in the intraglomerular pressure that leads to proteinuria and glomerular damage (421,422). In addition, long-term high protein intake accelerates structural and functional injury in models of diabetic kidney disease, whereas low-protein diets offer kidney protection (423,424,425,426,427,428). Physiologic studies in humans confirm the hyperfil­ tration response found in animal studies, but only in the presence of chronic hyper­ glycemia (429,430). On the other hand, dietary protein of animal origin may be a significant source of advanced glycation endproducts, particularly when cooked at high temperatures or in fat (431). In vitro studies indicate that advanced glycation endproducts can produce kidney damage through a variety of mechanisms even from the very early stages of kidney disease, but their contribution to disease progression is still unclear. Two other studies explored the association between CKD and dietary acid load, a surrogate for the intake of acid-inducing foods (rich in animal proteins) versus base-inducing foods (fruits and vege­ tables), quantified as the net acid excretion estimated from 24-hour dietary recall (432), and between CKD and metabolic acidosis (433). The former found that higher dietary acid load among 12,293 U.S. adult partic­ ipants in the NHANES 1999–2004 was associated with eGFR <60 mL/min/1.73 m2 or
