Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


pendent of low birth weight or blood pressure levels (435). In young persons with type 1 diabetes who smoked, the risk of albuminuria was nearly three­ fold higher than in nonsmokers (436). Likewise, the frequency of proteinuria (>500 mg/24 hours) was twice as high in smokers as in nonsmokers of similar age, duration of type 1 diabetes, A1c, and prevalence of hypertension (437). On the other hand, no relationship was observed between smoking and GFR decline in a longitudinal study of type 1 diabetic persons with albuminuria and serial 51Cr- EDTA GFR measurements over a median follow-up of 7 years (Figure 22.40) (438), although other smaller studies identified an association (439,440,441). In men with type 2 diabetes, cigarette smoking was associated with higher A1c FIGURE 22.39. Effect of Serum HDL Cholesterol Concentration on the Incidence of Albuminuria in American Indians With Type 2 Diabetes, Strong Heart Study, 1989–1996 Effect of HDL cholesterol concentration on the incidence of albuminuria (ACR ≥30 mg/g) in persons with diabetes and normal urinary albumin at baseline. Results are controlled for age, treatment with oral hypoglycemic agents or insulin, glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c), study site, degree of Indian heritage, mean arterial blood pressure, baseline albu­ minuria, and duration of diabetes at follow-up. A generalized additive logistic regression model was used so that non-linearity in the relation could be examined. In each sex, the p-value reflects a test for any effect (linear or not) of HDL cholesterol. Conversions for HDL cholesterol values are provided in Diabetes in America Appendix 1 Conversions. ACR, albumin-to-creatinine ratio; HDL, high-density lipoprotein. SOURCE: Reference 405, copyright © 1998 Springer, reprinted with permission TABLE 22.19. Changes in Lipids, Lipoproteins, Apo A, and Apo B, by Stages of Chronic Kidney Disease LIPID PARAMETER CKD 1–5 NEPHROTIC SYNDROME HEMODIALYSIS PERITONEAL DIALYSIS Total cholesterol ↗ ↑↑ ↔↓ ↑ LDL cholesterol ↗ ↑↑ ↔↓ ↑ HDL cholesterol ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ Non-HDL cholesterol ↗ ↑↑ ↔↓ ↑ Triglycerides ↗ ↑↑ ↑ ↑ Lp(a) ↗ ↑↑ ↑ ↑↑ Apo A-I ↘ ↗ ↓ ↓ Apo A-IV ↗ ↑↘ ↑ ↑ Apo B ↗ ↑↑ ↔↓ ↑ Changes derived from the combined literature. Non-HDL cholesterol includes cholesterol in LDL, VLDL, interme­ diate density lipoprotein, and chylomicron and its remnant. Normal (↔), increased (↑), markedly increased (⇈), and decreased (↓) plasma levels compared with non-uremic individuals; increasing (↗) and decreasing (↘) plasma levels with decreasing GFR. Apo A, apolipoprotein A; Apo
