Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


(↔), increased (↑), markedly increased (⇈), and decreased (↓) plasma levels compared with non-uremic individuals; increasing (↗) and decreasing (↘) plasma levels with decreasing GFR. Apo A, apolipoprotein A; Apo B, apolipoprotein B; CKD, chronic kidney disease; HDL, high-den­ sity lipoprotein; LDL, low-density lipoprotein; Lp, lipoprotein. SOURCE: Reference 394, copyright © 2007 American Society of Nephrology, reprinted with permission Kidney Disease in Diabetes 22–37 and ACR levels in a dose-dependent fashion (442), with nearly one-half of the heavy smokers having A1c >9% (>75 mmol/mol) and ACR ≥30 mg/g. The odds of elevated ACR were 2.8–3.2 times as high in those smoking more than 15 pack-years than in nonsmokers, regard­ less of age, blood pressure control, or diabetes duration (Figure 22.41). This and other studies in type 2 diabetes suggest that smoking is associated with kidney damage regardless of blood pressure control and treatment with RAAS inhibi­ tors (443,444). Smoking also increased the risk of moderate or severe albuminuria (adjusted OR 1.50, 95% CI 1.21–1.86) after 5 years of follow-up in a large population-based study of persons with type 2 diabetes and no kidney disease at baseline from the Swedish National Diabetes Registry, although no association was found with the rate of kidney function decline (445). Nicotine promotes the proliferation of mesangial cells and upregulates specific molecules involved in extracellular matrix production (446,447). In db/db mice, exposure to tobacco smoke for 8 weeks induces significant mesangial expansion and increases TGF-β and fibronectin expression compared with nonexposed mice (447). These changes, however, are not accompanied by significant changes in urinary albumin excretion. Experimental prenatal exposure to smoking results in neonates whose kidneys are propor­ tionally smaller and exhibit reduced thickness of proximal tubule cuboidal epithelium, dysmorphia of the proximal and distal convoluted tubules, and immature glomeruli (448). In addition to nicotine, mainstream cigarette combus­ tion produces over 4,000 compounds, including reactive oxygen species, carbon monoxide, nitric oxide, toxic metals, and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, which may add to an already increased suscep­ tibility to kidney disease in persons with diabetes (449). Although the precise mechanisms are unclear, tobacco smoking is known to cause vasoconstriction, impair platelet function and coagulation, and alter blood pressure (450,451). Given that persons with diabetes already have widespread vascular damage as a conse­ quence of their diabetes (452), smoking may serve to accelerate the process. OBESITY Obesity is a major risk factor for diabetes, hypertension, and CVD, all of
