Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


damage as a conse­ quence of their diabetes (452), smoking may serve to accelerate the process. OBESITY Obesity is a major risk factor for diabetes, hypertension, and CVD, all of which increase the risk for kidney disease. It increasingly affects young people, particularly Hispanics, African Americans, and American Indians (453), leading to an earlier onset of diabetes and its major complications, including kidney disease (454). The longitudinal population-based study in the Pima Indians showed that between 1965 and 2003, BMI increased in all age groups, including children. During the same time period, the inci­ dence of diabetes increased nearly sixfold among those age <15 years, without a similar trend in the older ages. These findings suggest that the increasing prev­ alence and degree of obesity in the youth combined with a nearly fourfold increase in the frequency of exposure to diabetes in utero have shifted the onset of diabetes to younger ages (455). For any diabetes duration, participants with youth-onset type 2 diabetes had a lower risk of ESRD (p=0.007) than those with older-onset diabetes. Because of the longer duration of diabetes by mid-life, however, the inci­ dence of ESRD was higher between ages 25 and 54 years in those with youth-onset diabetes than in those with adult-onset diabetes (p<0.001) (Figure 22.42) (319). Given the continued increase in obesity, the experience in the Pima Indians may be relevant to other populations at high risk for diabetes. Animal and human kidney biopsy studies describe obesity-associated adaptive increases in GFR and renal plasma flow, resulting from both proximal salt reabsorp­ tion and elevated angiotensin II, as well as structural changes, such as glomerular hypertrophy and focal segmental glomer­ ulosclerosis (456). A retrospective clinical and histopathologic study of 6,818 native kidney biopsies found diabetes-like lesions in 45% of persons with obesity-related glomerulopathy (457). Further, the prev­ alence of obesity-related glomerulopathy, defined as glomerulomegaly with or without focal segmental glomeruloscle­ rosis, increased tenfold over a 15-year period (from 0.2% in 1986–1990 to 2.0% in 1996–2000) (457). As the authors excluded other causes of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, this increase was largely attributed to the rising prevalence of obesity in the general population. Notably, five individuals who lost signif­ icant weight experienced a 50%–75% decline in proteinuria, and their kidney function remained stable. Leptin, a peptide hormone regulating appetite and body weight, is believed to FIGURE 22.40. Impact of Smoking Habit on Kidney Function, Adjusted for
