Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


Tubulointerstitial changes associated with analgesic use may also influence the progression of a number of kidney diseases (481,482). No data are available comparing the nephrotoxicity profile of various NSAIDs; indomethacin is suggested to cause more hyperkalemia (483) and acute kidney injury (484) than other NSAIDs, and nephritic syndrome is more often associated with feno­ profen (485). Nonetheless, lifetime use of nonnarcotic analgesics among 1,697 women participating in the Nurses’ Health Study was not associated with significant changes in kidney function, even in those who used high doses of these drugs (486). Similarly, among 11,032 initially healthy men in the Physicians’ Health Study (487), moderate analgesic use had an insignifi­ cant effect on serum creatinine levels or creatinine clearance over a 14-year period. Subgroup analyses that included those with a history of diabetes or hypertension also found no associations between kidney function decline and consumption of NSAIDs. On the other hand, annual intake of 105–365 acetaminophen pills doubled the odds of ESRD in 242 persons with diabetes, and a cumulative lifetime intake of ≥1,000 tablets nearly tripled the odds (Table 22.20) (475). Interestingly, the introduction of eGFR reporting in the health records of a Scottish population resulted in reduced prescribing of NSAIDs and a significant improvement in eGFR among those who stopped taking NSAIDs, suggesting that eGFR reporting may result in safer prescribing (488). A variety of other commonly used or prescribed medicines have been associated with kidney injuries, including tubulointersti­ tial and glomerular lesions (489). Two main mechanisms of interaction with kidney structures have been described: direct cellular toxicity and immune-mediated injury. Direct glomerular cell injury was associated with nodular glomerulosclerosis, thrombotic microangiopathy, minimal change disease, and focal segmental glomeruloscrerosis (490). Immune- mediated drug injuries include lupus-like renal lesions, ANCA (anti-neutrophil cyto­ plasmic antibodies)-related pauci-immune vasculitis, secondary membranous nephropathy, and minimal change disease (Table 22.21) (490). These injuries and the related clinical parameters are generally reversible after withdrawing the offending drug. Nonetheless, establishing a causal link between drug exposure and the devel­ opment of renal pathology is often difficult, due to lack of specific markers, recall bias, underlying diseases, heterogeneity of symptoms, and physicians’ unfamiliarity with the renal effects caused by certain drugs. Contrast-induced nephropathy is one of the most commonly reported causes of acute kidney failure in hospitalized patients. Those with diabetes and GFR <60 mL/ min/1.73 m2 are at particularly increased risk for contrast-induced nephropathy, especially with use
