Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


CVD. These conditions may be triggered or hastened by exposure to additional kidney insults, such as high-salt diet, obesity, and diabetes (504,505,507). Moreover, impaired nephrogenesis and hypertension may be passed to the next generation through changes in epigenetic gene regulation (508,509,510). Consistent quantitative information about this risk comes from longitudinal studies in Pima Indians. Exposure to diabetes in utero among Pima Indians increased nearly fourfold over a 30-year period, paralleled by a doubling in the prevalence of children with diabetes attributable to this exposure (511). Intrauterine exposure to diabetes was associated with a fourfold increase in the age-sex-adjusted incidence of ESRD in young adults with type 2 diabetes, mediated largely by the younger age at onset of diabetes (Figure 22.43) (320). A study exploring the impact of intrauterine exposure to diabetes compared renal vascular resistance in 19 adult nondiabetic offspring of type 1 diabetic mothers with 18 offspring of type 1 diabetic fathers as control subjects (512). At baseline, exposed and control subjects had similar age (median 24 and 25 years, respec­ tively), BMI, age at delivery, glucose concentrations, blood pressure, kidney size, and 51Cr-EDTA-measured GFR. Kidney vasodilatation induced with amino acid infusion was associated with significantly less increase in GFR and effective renal plasma flow and less decline in mean arterial pressure in offspring of type 1 diabetic mothers, suggesting a reduced kidney functional reserve possibly due to low nephron number and compensatory permanent single nephron hyperfiltra­ tion. A proposed explanation for these observations is that exposure to a diabetic intrauterine environment causes differ­ ential apoptosis during nephrogenesis via increased intrarenal renin-angiotensin system activation and nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB signaling (513,514). A critical shortage of maternal fuels during pregnancy may manifest as intrauterine growth retardation, defined as birth weight below the 10th percentile for gesta­ tional age. Low birth weight is frequent in minority populations, in populations undergoing rapid transition from traditional to modern lifestyle, and in those with low socioeconomic status, as well as in pregnancies associated with inadequate maternal weight gain, poor antenatal care, maternal hypertension, or smoking (515). In 12,364 adults with a history of diabetes or hypertension screened by NKF’s KEEP, 15% of whom reported birth weight <2,500 g, a U-shaped relationship was found between birth weight and CKD among men (516). The adjusted odds of developing CKD later in life was 1.6-fold higher among those with a birth weight <2,500 g and 1.4-fold higher among
