Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


disease (519). Familial clustering is also found in type 2 diabetes. In two genera­ tions of Pima Indians with type 2 diabetes (520), the frequency of proteinuria in the diabetic offspring was higher if both diabetic parents had proteinuria than if neither did, and if one parent had protein­ uria, the prevalence was intermediate (Figure 22.46). A number of candidate genes have been identified that may be related to diabetic kidney disease. In Pima Indians, a poten­ tial susceptibility locus for ESRD was found within the plasmocytoma variant 1 (PVT1) gene (521), which was confirmed in subjects of European descent with type 1 diabetes (522). Genome-wide association studies of subjects with type 1 diabetes in the Genetics of Kidneys in Diabetes (GoKinD) study (523) found single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the FERM domain-containing protein 3 (FRMD3) gene and near the cysteinyl-tRNA synthetase (CARS) gene associated with diabetic kidney disease, defined by overt proteinuria or ESRD. These associations were confirmed in the DCCT/Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications (EDIC) prospective study of type 1 diabetes (524), and susceptibility loci near CARS were common to both types of diabetes (525). Engulfment and cell motility 1 (ELMO1) loci were associated with diabetic kidney disease in European (526) and Japanese (527) individuals with type 1 diabetes and in African Americans with ESRD due to type 2 diabetes (528). The Family Investigation of Nephropathy and Diabetes (FIND) study (529) collected DNA and cell lines from European American, African American, American Indian, and Hispanic American families in whom type 2 diabetes was the predominant cause of kidney disease. For all ethnicities combined, the strongest evidence for linkage to diabetic kidney disease was on the long arm of chromosomes 7, 14, 18, and on the short arm of chromosome 10; to ACR on the long arm of chromosomes 2, 7, and 15; and to eGFR on the long arm of chromosomes 1, 7, and 8 (530,531). A meta-analysis assessing the effects of all genetic variants associated with severe albuminuria or ESRD found 24 reproducible genetic variants associated with diabetic kidney disease (Figure 22.47) (532). These genetic variants are involved in the renin-angiotensin system, polyol pathway, oxidative stress, inflammation, angiogenesis, glomerular filtration barrier defects, cell growth, differentiation, and apoptosis, supporting their roles in the pathogenesis of diabetic kidney disease (532). Albuminuria and, to a greater degree, GFR are heritable (533), but the actual genes responsible for diabetic kidney
