Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


T1D AKRB1 CA repeat (Z+2) Eur AKRB1 CA repeat (Z+2) T1D CNDP1 D18S880 (5L) T2D EPO rs1617640 (T) T1D HSPG2 rs3767140 (G) Eur/T1D CCR5 rs1799987 (G) Asian FIGURE 22.47. Genetic Variants Reproducibly Associated With Diabetic Nephropathy (A) All genetic variants in or near a gene that were reproduced in an independent study and significantly associated with diabetic nephropathy after meta-analysis. (B) All genetic variants in or near a gene that were reproduced in an independent study and significantly associated with diabetic nephropathy in a subgroup. CI, confidence interval. Parentheses (y-axis labelling) contain the allele used in the comparison. The subgroup in which the genetic variant was reproducibly associated with diabetic nephropathy is shown in y-axis label of Panel B as follows: Asian, T2D (type 2 diabetes), ESRD (end-stage renal disease), T1D (type 1 diabetes), Eur (European), Prot. (proteinuria). SOURCE: Reference 532, copyright © 2011 Springer, reprinted with permission Kidney Disease in Diabetes 22–45 In addition to specific genetic factors, the multifaceted cross-talk between genes and environmental factors can induce tissue-specific epigenetic changes, i.e., heritable changes in gene expression without alterations in the DNA sequence that can lead to aberrant gene regulation expressed as pathologic phenotype. Epigenetic changes include DNA cytosine methylation, histone posttranslational modifications in chro­ matin, and noncoding RNAs, all of which can modulate diabetes complications through alterations in gene expression (534). Through epigenetic mechanisms, for example, cells acquire metabolic memory of prior hyperglycemic exposure that appears to mediate the develop­ ment and progression of diabetic kidney disease (535,536). Hyperglycemia- induced epigenetic aberrations alter transcription factors involved in the expression of genes mediating the pathogenesis of diabetic kidney disease (Figure 22.48) (534). Several microRNAs and certain long noncoding RNAs also have regulatory roles in diabetic kidney disease, including promoting/modulating fibrotic gene expression in renal cells by targeting transcription repressors (535). Although the mechanisms of such cellular memory are not entirely elucidated, its presence is supported by the regression of morphologic lesions in diabetic kidneys after a long period of normoglycemia following pancreas trans­ plantation (361). Similarly, the longlasting effects of previous strict glycemic control observed in persons with type 1 diabetes in the DCCT or type 2 diabetes in the UKPDS could be attributed to cellular metabolic memory. Therapeutic approaches targeting TGF-β, angiotensin II type 1 receptor, or microRNAs can block some of the events involved in the pathogenesis of diabetic kidney disease, suggesting the need for novel therapies.
