Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


approaches targeting TGF-β, angiotensin II type 1 receptor, or microRNAs can block some of the events involved in the pathogenesis of diabetic kidney disease, suggesting the need for novel therapies. FIGURE 22.48. Signaling and Epigenetic Networks Involved in the Pathogenesis of Diabetic Complications and Metabolic Memory Metabolic and hemodynamic disorders associated with diabetes can upregulate growth factors and lipids that trigger signaling pathways, transcription factors, and crosstalk with epigenetic networks. These events can induce chro­ matin remodeling and changes in the transcriptional regulation of key genes in cells from target tissues. Persistence of epigenetic changes (including histone PTMs, DNAme, and ncRNAs) may lead to metabolic memory, which is known to increase the risk for diabetic complications even after normalization of hyperglycemia. AGE, advanced glycation endproducts; Ang II, angiotensin II; AT1R, angiotensin II type 1 receptor; CD, cluster of differentiation; DNAme, DNA methylation; ECM, extracellular matrix; 1ncRNA, long noncoding RNA; MI, myocardial infarction; miRNA, microRNA; NEFA, nonesterified fatty acids; NF-ĸB, nuclear factor-kappaB; oxLDL, oxidized low-density lipo­ protein; PTM, posttranslational modification; RAGE, receptor for AGEs; SR, scavenger; TBR, TGF-β receptor; TGF-β, transforming growth factor beta; Zeb1, zinc finger E-box-binding homebox 1. SOURCE: Reference 534, copyright © 2015 Springer, reprinted with permission 22–46 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition TREATMENT OF DIABETIC KIDNEY DISEASE A number of large, well-designed clinical trials have examined the effects of treat­ ments on the onset and progression of kidney disease in persons with diabetes. The results of these trials helped inform and refine clinical practice guidelines for the management of persons with diabetes and kidney disease. This section summarizes the current understanding of renoprotective treatments in those with diabetes. METABOLIC CONTROL Epidemiologic studies indicate that hyper­ glycemia plays a fundamental role in the development of diabetic kidney disease, as reviewed previously in this chapter. A number of clinical trials examined the effect of metabolic control on the course of diabetic kidney disease (244,524,537, 538,539,540,541,542,543,544,545,546, 547,548,549,550,551,552). In type 1 diabetes, evidence that intensive treatment of hyperglycemia prevents elevation of albuminuria or delays its progression comes from the combined DCCT and its long-term follow-up, the EDIC observational study (524,542). In the DCCT, 1,441 persons with type 1 diabetes were randomly divided into two groups, half receiving intensive insulin therapy and the other half receiving conventional therapy. Participants were followed for a mean of 6.5 years (245). Intensive insulin therapy reduced the risks of moderate albuminuria (≥40 mg/24 hours) and severe
