Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


that such treatment also affects progression of diabetic kidney disease (608,609,610,611). The Study of Heart and Renal Protection (SHARP) (612) is the largest randomized controlled trial in persons with CKD (average eGFR 27 mL/min/1.73 m2) to demonstrate that a lipid-lowering strategy with a statin plus ezetimibe significantly reduces major atherosclerotic events, such as coronary death, myocardial infarction, nonhemorrhagic stroke, and arterial revascularization procedures, compared with placebo (HR 0.83, 95% CI 0.74–0.94). The relative effect on these outcomes was similar in persons with or without diabetes, although the study was not adequately powered for subgroup analyses—only 23% of the 9,438 participants had diabetes. The study detected no effect of lipid- lowering treatment on the frequency of doubling of the baseline serum creatinine concentration or progression to ESRD. This and other studies (613,614,615) found no cardiovascular benefit of statin therapy when it was initiated in persons with diabetes after the onset of dialysis. By contrast, lipid-lowering therapy appears highly beneficial in reducing cardiovascular events in diabetic and nondiabetic persons with a functioning kidney transplant (616). Other lipid-changing medicines may be of value in the management of persons with diabetes and CKD. The Veterans Affairs High-density lipoprotein Intervention Trial (VA-HIT) (617) reported in a post hoc analysis that gemfibrozil reduced risk of major cardiovascular events by 42% compared with placebo in persons with GFR <75 mL/min/1.73 m2 and diabetes. The Diabetes Atherosclerosis Intervention Study (DAIS) (618) and the Fenofibrate Intervention and Event Lowering in Diabetes (FIELD) study (619,620) both found that fenofibrate significantly lowered the risk of new-onset moderate albuminuria and promoted regression from moderate to normal albuminuria compared with placebo in persons with type 2 diabetes. On the other hand, fenofibrate did not change the risk of progression from moderate to severe albuminuria. DIETARY MODIFICATION In animals with experimental diabetes, reduced protein intake protects against hyperfiltration and progressive sclerosis of functioning glomeruli (621,622). In persons with type 1 diabetes and normal urinary albumin excretion, short-term dietary protein restriction favorably modi­ fies glomerular hemodynamic function, FIGURE 22.52. 2014 Hypertension Guideline Management Algorithm, Eighth Joint National Committee ACEI, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor; ARB, angiotensin receptor blocker; CCB, calcium channel blocker; CKD, chronic kidney disease; DBP, diastolic blood pressure; SBP, systolic blood pressure. * ACEIs and ARBs should not be used in combination. † If blood pressure fails to be maintained at goal, reenter the algorithm where appropriate based on the current individual therapeutic plan. SOURCE:
