Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


group receiving the usual diet (Figure 22.53), suggesting that even moderate protein restriction, which moves intakes from excess toward the norm, provides benefits beyond conventional drug therapy in these persons. Fewer studies are available in persons with type 2 diabetes. A study of the efficacy of dietary protein restriction in 160 persons with type 2 diabetes and moderate albuminuria or ≥5 years dura­ tion of diabetes found no beneficial effect of protein restriction on albuminuria or eGFR over a mean follow-up of 28 months (633). In fact, a protein intake restricted to 0.8 g/kg/day could not be effectively achieved beyond the first 6 months of the study, reflecting the inconvenience associ­ ated with a strict dietary regimen that may outweigh the benefits of such therapy. A systematic review of randomized studies (634) concluded that a reduced-protein diet in persons with CKD associated with either type of diabetes had no signifi­ cant effect on kidney function relative to normal protein consumption, despite improvements in proteinuria and A1c, and that dietary protein restriction may signifi­ cantly increase the risk for malnutrition in those with more advanced CKD (635). On the other hand, studies evaluating a reduction or alteration of protein intake in persons with diabetes and CKD are gener­ ally small (under 100 subjects), of short duration (<2 years), have limited docu­ mentation on the quality of protein (animal or vegetable), fat and carbohydrate intake, and evaluate intermediate outcomes, i.e., albuminuria and eGFR, rather than major health outcomes. Sodium intake is a major contributor to blood pressure increase. According to the Institute of Medicine (636), about 75% of dietary sodium intake is obtained from preprocessed foods or is added to restau­ rant food during preparation, and only about 25% comes from natural sources or is added by the consumer. The Dietary Guidelines for Americans (637) recommends that persons age ≥51 years, African Americans, and persons with hypertension, diabetes, or CKD limit their sodium intake to 1,500 mg daily. In the NHANES 2005–2008, virtually all (99.4%) of those encouraged to limit their sodium intake exceeded the recommended limit on a daily basis (638). Although sodium reduction has a positive impact on blood pressure in persons with diabetes (639), its long-term effect on kidney outcomes remains unclear. Most individuals may benefit from a Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) diet, a reduced sodium diet emphasizing fruits, vegetables, low-fat dairy foods, whole grains, nuts, poultry,
