Chapter 22: Kidney Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, kidney, disease, albuminuria, type, type diabetes, kidney disease, persons, diabetic, esrd, figure, years, risk, reference, glomerular


outcomes remains unclear. Most individuals may benefit from a Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) diet, a reduced sodium diet emphasizing fruits, vegetables, low-fat dairy foods, whole grains, nuts, poultry, fish, and smaller amounts of red meat and refined sugars than the typical diet in the United States (640). The DASH 22–54 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition diet reflects a shift towards whole-diet approaches to the management of CKD in diabetes that integrates multiple healthful eating goals simultaneously, without a focus on single nutrients. In addition to lowering blood pressure, a DASH-type diet reduced kidney function loss over 11 years in women from the Nurses’ Health Study with mildly decreased eGFR, an effect primarily associated with reduced red meat intake (641). Nonetheless, the DASH diet may not be suitable, without modification, for persons with GFR <60 mL/min/1.73 m2 because of its high content of potassium (4.5 g/day), phosphorus (1.7 g/day), and protein (1.4 g/kg/day). OTHER TREATMENTS Modification of blood pressure, metabolic control, diet, and treatment with dialysis or transplantation are the mainstays of treatment of kidney disease in persons with diabetes, and a majority of the research into new therapeutic approaches has focused on one or more of these ther­ apies. Nevertheless, a growing body of evidence indicates that the development of diabetic kidney disease is related to specific metabolic derangements induced by hyperglycemia that interplay with hemodynamic pathways. Advanced glyca­ tion endproducts (642), TGF-β, and other growth factors (643,644,645,646) play key roles in promoting chemical, cellular, and tissue disorders linked to progression of kidney disease. Animal studies suggest that inhibitors of advanced glycation endproduct formation ameliorate glomer­ ulosclerosis and improve albuminuria and kidney function (647), and advanced glycation endproduct crosslink breakers improve endothelial function and arterial compliance, with reductions in arterial pulse pressure and albuminuria in persons with type 1 diabetes (648,649). Antioxidant inflammation modulators, such as eicosapentaenoic acid or pent­ oxifylline (650,651), improved kidney function and proteinuria in small studies of persons with type 1 or type 2 diabetes, and treatment with Rho GTPase and Rho-associated kinase inhibitors (ROCKs) mitigated mesangial expansion, thickening of glomerular basement membrane, and albuminuria in experimental diabetic kidney disease (652). Persons with diabetes and CKD require multidisciplinary management involving a combination of all treatments and behavioral adjustments to hold off the progression of kidney disease per se and to prevent the associated complications. The Steno-2 study, a landmark prospective, randomized trial in Denmark
