Gut, 1991,32,1027-1030 1027
KEYWORDS: culture, crypt, cell, rate, crypt cell, production, hours, vivo, bypass, organ, cell production, organ culture, cells, production rate, mucosa


Gut, 1991,32,1027-1030 1027 Validation of culture in colonic adaptation organ to surgical manipulation GVNAppleton, EEWheeler, DNChallacombe, RCNWilliamson Abstract hyperplasia and hypoplasia were provided by Valuable information on intestinal adaption 80%jejunoilealbypassandproximaldefunction- canbegainedbyusingthetechnique oforgan ingcolostomyrespectively. culture to measure the crypt cell production rate. It is not known, however, whether the production rate in organ culture accurately Methods represent that in vivo. Colonic crypt cell pro- ductionrate,determinedbyastandardmethod ANIMALSANDOPERATIONS invivo,wascomparedwiththatinvitroinorgan Fifty six male Sprague-Dawley rats weighing culturein56rats. Extensivejejunoilealbypass mean (SD) 220 (29) g were used. Half the wasusedtostimulatecolonichyperplasia,and animals were allocated to an in vivo stathmo- colonic defunction (by transverse colostomy) kinetic experiment in which 10 rats underwent ledtohypoplasia.Therewerenodifferencesin 80% jejunoileal bypass with end to side anasto- cryptcellproductionratesbetweeninvivoand mosis between the proximal jejunum and distal in vitro groups in normal colon (4-62 (0-39) v ileum, eightratshadanendcolostomyraisedin 4*80 (0.23)cells/crypt/hour), after80%jejuno- the transverse colon (thereby defunctioning the ileal bypass (7.81 (0.71) v 6*75 (0.72) cells/ distalcolorectum), and 10unoperatedratsacted crypt/hour), or after defunction (2-11 (0.39) v ascontrols. 1-81 (0.35)cells/crypt/hour). Adaptingcolonic For the organ culture experiment, fewer mucosadoesnotundergo appreciablereadap- animalswereusedbecauseofthelargenumberof tationinvitroinshorttermorganculture(10-24 explantsavailablefromeachrat. Fiveratshadan hours). Crypt cell production rate results 80% jejunoileal bypass, eight had a transverse obtainedinmanprobablyreflectinvivovalues. colostomy, andfiveacted ascontrols. Morerats were used in the colostomy group to harvest adequate samples for organ culture because the Thecloserelationbetweencolorectaladaptation defunctioned colon was shorter in length and and experimental carcinogenesis' suggests that calibre. The remaining animals (n=14) had no therateofcellturnoverinhumanintestinemay operation and were used (a) in a dose-response reflectanindividual'ssusceptibilitytocolorectal experiment for vincristine in organ culture cancer. Recent cytokinetic studies in man have (n=3),or(b)todeterminetheoptimumduration shown that the large bowel adapts in a similar of organ culture (n=11). Two rats died of fashion to that of the rat when subjected to anastomotic leakage after jejunoileal bypass, defunction (hypoplasia)2 or small bowel bypass leaving eight healthy survivors in the in vivo (hyperplasia).3 group and three in the vitro group. Rats were The most robust index ofcytokinetic change killedfourweeksafteroperation. in the gastrointestinal tract is the crypt cell production rate.4 Although attempts have been made to measure this in man in vivo,5 ethical STATHMOKINETICMETHODINVIVO constraints now limit such measurements to in Cryptcell production ratemeasurement in vivo vitro methods. The technique oforgan culture was carried out along the lines ofa well estab- aims to preserve the structural and functional lished technique.! On the day of killing (four equilibrium of a biopsy specimen so that the weeks after operation) rats were weighed and UniversityDepartmentof cryptcellproduction rate can bedetermined
