Gut, 1991,32,1027-1030 1027
KEYWORDS: culture, crypt, cell, rate, crypt cell, production, hours, vivo, bypass, organ, cell production, organ culture, cells, production rate, mucosa


during the period six to of the experiment the observer counted the nine hours. Over the first three to six hours of number ofmetaphases blind, being unaware of organculture,themucosawasina'shock'phase theoriginofeachspecimen. with few metaphase figures seen (Table II). By The number of arrested metaphases/ 24hours theratiohadfallen to 1 18 (0 54) cells/ mean crypt was plotted against time of death after crypt/hour. Satisfactory values for crypt cell vincristine. The slope ofthe line fitted to these productionratiowereobtainedaftereitheran 18 data by linear regression analysis and least or a 21 hour period of culture (Table II); the squares approximation represents the crypt cell shorter period (18 hours) was chosen for rat productionrateincells/crypt/hour.8 organculture. Numbers ofarrested metaphases were deter- mined separately at the centres and close to the edges of 25 control samples after 18 hours' STATHMOKINETICMETHODINVITRO After four weeks, dose-response and duration cultureandafurtherthreehours'stathmokinesis. experiments were performed on mucosal Therewas no significant difference between the samples obtained from the lower descending twogroups: valueswere 16-09(1 87)cells/crypt/ colon by the 'rocking' method of organ culture houratthe'centre'and15 58(1-81)atthe'edge'. we have previously described.3 Bowel segments Four weeks after operation, mucosal speci- were opened longitudinally and washed in ice mens(fromthedescendingcolon)fromratswith cold medium (see below). The muscle coat was jejunoilealbypass,defunction,andcontrolswere stripped away from the mucosa using two pairs established in organ culture. After 18 hours, ofwatchmakers' forceps. Under aseptic condi- vincristine0 5[tg/mlwasadded. Specimenswere tions, mucosal segments were flattened and removed one, two, and three hours later. The gently orientated on a metricel filter with the crypt cell production ratio was calculated for luminal surface uppermost. The mucosa was eachgroup(asabove). divided into 2-3 mm' explants that were placed on stainless steelgridplatforms sitedatone end ofthewellofaLuxmultiwellculturedish(Flow STATISTICALANALYSIS Labs). Cryptcellproductionrateswerecomparedusing Culture medium was CMRL-1066 (Gibco) Student's t test. Mean number of metaphase 91-5% v/v, heat inactivated fetalcalfserum 5%, arrestswerecomparedusingtheMann-Whitney L-glutamine 200 mmol/l 2%, Hepes buffer Utest. mol/I 1%, andpenicillin+streptomycin 10000 IU/ml 0 5%. Glucose 20 mg, hydrocortisone 21-hemisuccinate 1 mg, and insulin 1 mg were Results addedtoeach20mlofmedium,whichhadafinal pH of7 2-7-3. Each well contained 3 ml ofthe CRYPTCELLPRODUCTIONRATEINVIVO(TABLEIII) final medium. Wellswere placed in acontrolled The crypt cell production rate in normal lower atmospherechamber(Bellco,NewJersey,USA) descending colon was 4-62 (0 47) cells/crypt/ andwererockedat 3 cycles/minuteonarocking hour. This value was similar to that seen in platform (Bellco) in95% oxygenand 5% carbon previous experiments in our laboratory. After TABLEII Influenceof dioxideat37°Cinamoistatmosphere. 80% jejunoileal bypass the production rate rose culturetimeoncryptcell Todeterminetheminimumdoseofvincristine by69%.Afterproximalcolostomyitfellby55%. p ( r M o e d a uc
