Asian Journal of Andrology (2009) 11: 461–477 npg
KEYWORDS: patients, test, semen, five-glass, prostatitis, tests, two-glass, analysis, four-glass, bacterial, chronic, positive, diagnostic, therapy, pathogens


| Asian Journal of Andrology npg Semen analysis in chronic bacterial prostatitis Vittorio Magri et al. 1 Introduction still debated . Making reference to the results of a National In- Chronic prostatitis (CP) syndromes have been stitutes of Health-Chronic Prostatitis Collaborative traditionally classified as bacterial or abacterial . Research Network (NIH-CPCRN) case-control study, Chronic bacterial prostatitis (CBP, category II, Na- Nickel stated that no significant difference was tional Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney shown in the detection of bacteria in the semen culture Diseases [NIDDK] Chronic Prostatitis Workshop, of CP/CPPS patients compared with asymptomatic 1995) is diagnosed when lower urinary tract (LUT) subjects with no evidence of clinical CP/CPPS. In a cultures show an infected prostate gland as the focus survey performed in 40 men with category II CBP due of recurrent episodes of bacteriuria . Prostatitis to Escherichia coli infection, Weidner and coworkers syndromes in which pathogens are not isolated fall into demonstrated that semen cultures could identify the CP/chronic pelvic pain syndrome class (CP/CPPS, significant bacteriospermia in only about 50% of category III, NIDDK), with inflammatory (IIIa) or non- semen specimens from men with CBP. For this reason, inflammatory (IIIb) variants, depending on white blood ejaculate culture has not been recommended as a first- cell (WBC) counts in patients’ specimens. line diagnostic assay in men with suspected CBP [18, The aetiology of abacterial prostatitis is mostly 19]. However, semen analysis has been associated unknown; experts hypothesize neurological, psychological, with the standard four-glass assay for the detection anatomical, or immunological disorders as possible of pathogenic bacteria and inflammatory leukocytes In some cases, category III syndromes respond CPCRN . favourably to antibiotics. For this reason, antibacterial Recently, Budía and coworkers have published agents (AA) are currently recommended for the empirical the results of a study performed on 895 patients who met positive effect of AA in these cases, some experts indicate semen has higher sensitivity than an expressed prostatic the intrinsic anti-inflammatory activity of quinolones as secretion (EPS) sample for the diagnosis of CBP. Thus, a possible determinant of patients’ response . Others culture and microbiological analysis of semen might hypothesize an underlying infection by pathogens (including increase the number of patients diagnosed with bacterial anaerobes; ) that are not routinely searched for or disease and decrease the number of subjects classified by detected by conventional techniques . exclusion into category III CP/CPPS. Since 1968, the four-glass assay
