Asian Journal of Andrology (2009) 11: 461–477 npg
KEYWORDS: patients, test, semen, five-glass, prostatitis, tests, two-glass, analysis, four-glass, bacterial, chronic, positive, diagnostic, therapy, pathogens


are not routinely searched for or disease and decrease the number of subjects classified by detected by conventional techniques . exclusion into category III CP/CPPS. Since 1968, the four-glass assay according to Currently, semen culture and analysis has been Meares and Stamey has been considered the indicated as ‘optional’ by the consensus meeting of the standard test for detection and localization of pathogens NIH-CPCRN (Chantilly, VA, USA, 26 March 2002; in the LUT. About 10 years ago, a simplified two-glass ) and has been ‘recommended in selected patients’ test was proposed, based on the collection of sole pre- by the International Giessen Consensus (Giessen, prostatic massage (VB2) and post-massage (VB3) urine Germany, September 2002; ). samples . In the context of published recommendations for the Some authors have suggested that segmented tests evaluation of patients with prostatitis, Nickel stated do not display sufficient sensitivity and may underes- that although semen analysis and culture do increase the timate the prevalence of bacterial prostatitis cases, number of patients placed in category II, the importance thus misdirecting the therapeutic approach to the and relevance of this finding was unknown, because no disease . In addition to segmented tests, other study showed a significant symptomatic improvement procedures are adopted in the prostatitis diagnostic in patients with demonstrated positive semen cultures workup. As semen contains diluted prostatic material when treated with antibiotics. (around 20%–30% of the total volume), together with To address these issues, at least in part, we performed material from the testes and other genital tract tissues, a retrospective survey on a database of over 900 patients some authors have suggested the usefulness of semen from a single hospital. The results of this study suggest that analysis for the detection of prostatic pathogens. semen culture may complement the existing LUT segmented Mobley proposed culture of semen/total ejaculate tests to enhance the sensitivity of microbiological about 30 years ago, but the efficacy of this assay is analysis in symptomatic prostatitis patients. Asian Journal of Andrology | Semen analysis in chronic bacterial prostatitis npg Vittorio Magri et al. 2 Patients and methods Database analysis allowed the identification of a cohort of 696 patients who met the above-mentioned The data presented in this study are the result of criteria. a retrospective survey on patients who underwent Published recommendations and internationally the non-experimental, diagnostic, and therapeutic acknowledged guidelines were followed in the diagnosis protocols routinely adopted in
