Asian Journal of Andrology (2009) 11: 461–477 npg
KEYWORDS: patients, test, semen, five-glass, prostatitis, tests, two-glass, analysis, four-glass, bacterial, chronic, positive, diagnostic, therapy, pathogens


result of criteria. a retrospective survey on patients who underwent Published recommendations and internationally the non-experimental, diagnostic, and therapeutic acknowledged guidelines were followed in the diagnosis protocols routinely adopted in our clinical setting of prostatitis . Examination of history included between the years 2000 and 2006; these protocols a review of past and present symptoms, focusing on were based on internationally recommended diagnostic previous genitourinary diseases and infections, and and therapeutic algorithms. Patients provided written on past and present medications. The severity of consent to processing and anonymous publication CP symptoms was scored using an Italian validated of their clinical data. According to Italian bylaws translation of the NIH Chronic Prostatitis Symptom (Determinazione AIFA [DATE], GU 76, [DATE]), Index (NIH-CPSI) . The physical examination the Ethical Committee of the Principal Investigator’s included complete abdominal examination, focusing hospital was notified of the protocol describing the on the external genitalia and perineum. Consistency current observational study. and irregularity of the prostate gland were evaluated by DRE. Pelvic and transrectal ultrasound was used 2.1 Study design, inclusion criteria, and diagnostic for prostatic and bladder diagnostic imaging. Urine procedures peak flow rate (Q ), percent bladder voided volume max The present study is based on a retrospective ana- (% BVV), and post-micturition residual urine (by ly sis of a database of over 900 patients who were sovrapubic ultrasound) were measured in all patients. diagnosed in a single primary care urological centre Microbiological tests included, sequentially, (i) specializing in the treatment of prostatitis syndromes. pre-VB1 urethral swab analysis and culture, followed Patients between 20 and 59 years old were included by (ii) a four-glass LUT segmented localization test in this study if they showed signs and symptoms of according to Meares and Stamey and (iii) post- category II CBP or category III CP/CPPS at the first VB3 semen analysis and culture. Before each test, visit, according to the NIH criteria (NIDDK Chronic patients were required to cleanse thoroughly their hands 1995). Symptoms should have been present for at tested for the presence and load of traditional uropathogens least 3 months within the 6 months before the first (TUs; Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Klebsiella spp., Proteus characteristic signs/symptoms of prostatitis (i.e., family, Enterococcus faecalis, Staphylococcus aureus) dysuria, perineal pain or discomfort, testicular pain, and ‘unusual pathogens’ (UPs; definition by Skerk et al. painful ejaculation, associated or not with urinary ): Streptococcus spp., Haemophylus spp., Citrobacter frequency, urinary urgency,
