Asian Journal of Andrology (2009) 11: 461–477 npg
KEYWORDS: patients, test, semen, five-glass, prostatitis, tests, two-glass, analysis, four-glass, bacterial, chronic, positive, diagnostic, therapy, pathogens


pain or discomfort, testicular pain, and ‘unusual pathogens’ (UPs; definition by Skerk et al. painful ejaculation, associated or not with urinary ): Streptococcus spp., Haemophylus spp., Citrobacter frequency, urinary urgency, hesitance at micturition, spp., Coryneforms, Ureaplasma urealyticum, Mycoplasma urinary retention, or decreased urinary stream, prostate spp., and others). When a patient showed at least a abnormality and/or asymmetry at digital rectal exami- TU together with an UP in the context of a multiple nation [DRE]). infection localized at the prostatic level, he was Patients with any of the following conditions considered positive for class II CBP and placed in the were not considered for this study: category I acute TU group. For diagnosis of bacterial infection of the bacterial prostatitis; urethral discharge; Chlamydia; prostate, colony counts in EPS/VB3 were required to therapy with AA or other medications effective at be at least 10-fold greater than those assessed on VB1/ the prostatic level within a 90-day period before VB2. In the case of detection of multiple pathogens in entering the study; renal/hepatic/cardiac insufficiency; VB1, VB2, EPS, VB3, and semen samples, in order to indwelling catheters; cystostomy; ureterostomy; exclude accidental contamination, localizations were previous prostatic or pelvic surgery; or neoplasia. To confirmed by repeating the tests after 7 days. reduce the confounding role of frank hyperplasia in Inflammatory WBCs were counted on four- the evaluation of voiding symptoms, life quality, and glass specimens and semen using the more stringent therapy outcomes, we excluded prostatitis patients composite criteria (10 + in EPS, 5 + in VB3) described presenting a prostatic enlargement exceeding 40 mL. by Schaeffer et al. . | Asian Journal of Andrology npg Semen analysis in chronic bacterial prostatitis Vittorio Magri et al. 2.2 Comparative analysis of microbiological diagnostic on the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) graph, tests in CBP and the AUROCC at the cutoff point is simply the area 2.2.1 Diagnostic scenarios under the trapezoid generated by the cutoff value on the For comparative studies, the results of the above- ROC graph (i.e., the average between sensitivity and described microbiological tests were collected on specificity ([Se+Sp]/2) . a single database and used to dissect the following —Youden’s index: This comprises specificity and diagnostic scenarios: sensitivity of a given assay in a single equation (j = —the VB2 and VB3 samples were used to diagnose Se−[1−Sp]). ‘j’ ranges between 0 for a worthless test bacterial prostatitis according to the two-glass pre-
