Asian Journal of Andrology (2009) 11: 461–477 npg
KEYWORDS: patients, test, semen, five-glass, prostatitis, tests, two-glass, analysis, four-glass, bacterial, chronic, positive, diagnostic, therapy, pathogens


a single equation (j = —the VB2 and VB3 samples were used to diagnose Se−[1−Sp]). ‘j’ ranges between 0 for a worthless test bacterial prostatitis according to the two-glass pre- and 100 for an ideal test and is considered the best massage and post-massage tests ; measure in terms of regret in a decision theoretical —the VB1, VB2, EPS, and VB3 samples were used context . In the Biggerstaff graph, j is the intercept to diagnose bacterial prostatitis according to the four- on the vertical axis of a line with slope 1 (Figure 1), glass Meares and Stamey test ; passing through the single cutoff point representing a —the VB1, VB2, EPS, VB3, and semen samples were given dichotomous test . used for pathogen detection within a complemented —Positive (LR+) and negative (LR–) likelihood assay denominated ‘five-glass test’. ratios (LR+ = Se/[1−Sp]; LR– = [1−Se]/Sp; for definition see Zegarra Montes et al. ): These can 2.2.2 Comparative parameters also be extrapolated from the ROC graph and represent Comparison between diagnostic assays is typically the slopes of the lines connecting a cutoff point to the performed by calculating the sensitivity (Se) and origin of the axes (point ) or to the point (100, specificity (Sp) of ‘competing’ tests. In a published 100), respectively (Figure 1 ). report describing the results of a comparative analysis As indicated by Biggerstaff , LR+ and LR– between segmented tests for diagnosis of CP/CPPS, lines relative to a ‘gold standard’ test divide the ROC 2 × 2 contingency tables were used to compare the plot into four areas: depending on the specific area in positivity/negativity of the four-glass test with the which a ‘competitor’ test is positioned in the chart, this positivity/negativity of the two-glass test , and to can be classified as overall superior to the gold standard calculate the relative sensitivity and specificity. A similar assay, and as overall inferior or superior for confirming approach was described by Zegarra Montes et al. . the absence or the presence of a given disease . We have adopted the same procedure in the current study A model graph showing these areas is reproduced in by generating 2 × 2 tables to compare the five-glass test Figure 1. with the four-glass test or the two-glass test. Variations in sensitivity imply a natural trade-off 2.3 Effect of pharmacological treatment in patients with the specificity of a given assay,
