Asian Journal of Andrology (2009) 11: 461–477 npg
KEYWORDS: patients, test, semen, five-glass, prostatitis, tests, two-glass, analysis, four-glass, bacterial, chronic, positive, diagnostic, therapy, pathogens


1. with the four-glass test or the two-glass test. Variations in sensitivity imply a natural trade-off 2.3 Effect of pharmacological treatment in patients with the specificity of a given assay, thus hampering diagnosed with different localization tests the comparison between diagnostic tests. Therefore, 2.3.1 Study design index or parameter, such as (i) the area under receiver logical assessments, patients received a full course of operating characteristic curve (AUROCC), (ii) Youden’s combination pharmacological therapy. On completion of index (j), or (iii) the likelihood ratio (LR), represents treatment (one or two cycles), patients were subjected to a more useful procedure for such a comparison. In a complete diagnostic protocol, including microbiological of diagnostic accuracy allowing simple, immediate persistence after 6 weeks of treatment were subjected to a comparison between two dichotomous diagnostic second course of therapy, according to a protocol published tests by graphic visualization of the following three earlier . T1 was defined as the time point at which, parameters: after a first or second course of combination therapy, —The AUROCC : In a binary setting (e.g., in microbiological eradication was achieved, or, in the case the case of dichotomous tests indicating a positive or of lack of eradication after a second cycle of therapy, negative outcome of an LUT segmented assay), the pathogen persistence was observed. At time points T2, true positive rate (sensitivity) and the false positive rate T3, T4, T5 and T6–6, 12, 18, 24, and 30 months after (100-specificity) of the test define a single cutoff value time point T1, respectively–patients were subjected Asian Journal of Andrology | Semen analysis in chronic bacterial prostatitis npg Vittorio Magri et al. of the alpha-adrenoceptor blocker alfuzosin (10 mg, extended-release formulation) and a S. repens extract (640 mg day−1). This therapeutic regimen was administered for 6 weeks to all patients. In agreement with a published therapeutic algorithm , patients were treated with the alpha-blocker for the first 6 months of the follow-up period (time frame: T1–T2), to which the S. repens extract was also associated. The same therapeutic scheme was administered to patients with negative four-glass cultures and positive semen localization of uropathogens (described in Section 3.3). 2.3.3 Response evaluation Response was graded as follows, in agreement with Figure 1. Likelihood ratio (LR) graph: regions of comparison . The slopes (tangents) of the lines connecting the cutoff the definitions and pathogen loads indicated by Naber point of a ‘gold standard’
