Asian Journal of Andrology (2009) 11: 461–477 npg
KEYWORDS: patients, test, semen, five-glass, prostatitis, tests, two-glass, analysis, four-glass, bacterial, chronic, positive, diagnostic, therapy, pathogens


Likelihood ratio (LR) graph: regions of comparison . The slopes (tangents) of the lines connecting the cutoff the definitions and pathogen loads indicated by Naber point of a ‘gold standard’ comparator test to points (0, 0) and (100, et al. : 100) represent the LR+ and the LR–, respectively. The LR+ and —Eradication, defined as a causative organism absent LR– lines divide the chart into four areas. Depending on the (bacterial load: < 103 colony forming units [CFU] mL−1) position of a competitor test in these areas, it can be defined as after completion of therapy (T1 time point). overall superior to the gold standard, overall inferior, superior for confirming the absence of the disease under investigation, —Persistence, defined as a causative organism present or superior for confirming the presence of the same disease. (bacterial load: ≥ 103 CFU mL−1) after completion of Youden’s index (j) is the intercept on the vertical axis of a line therapy. whose slope is 1, passing through the cutoff point. —Superinfection, defined as a causative organism eradicated (bacterial load: < 103 CFU mL−1), with the appearance of a different pathogen (bacterial load: ≥ 103 analysis, questionnaires). Microbiological analyses were repeated in patients showing symptom relapse 2.4 Statistics during follow-up. χ2 test was used for contingency table and eradication The same design was applied to the study performed rate comparisons. on a subset of patients with negative four-glass cultures Intragroup differences in NIH-CPSI questionnaire and positive semen localization of uropathogens, as scores before/after therapy and during follow-up were described in Section 3.3. analysed using Wilcoxon’s signed rank test. Intragroup differences between Q or %BVV levels before/after max 2.3.2 Pharmacological treatment therapy and during follow-up were measured using a Starting from time point T0, patients received an paired, two-tailed t-test. Intergroup differences in NIH- oral once-daily dose of 500 mg ciprofloxacin, associated CPSI scores were analysed using the Mann–Whitney/ with a single daily dose of 500 mg azithromycin, Wilcoxon rank sum test. administered during the first three consecutive days Intergroup variance at single time points was ana- at the beginning of each week of treatment with lysed by ANOVA (Q , %BVV) or the Kruskal–Wallis max ciprofloxacin, as described earlier [30–32]. An alpha- test (NIH-CPSI scores). The XLStatistics 5.71 program blocker (Alfuzosin ER, 10 mg day−1) was administered (©Rodney Carr; for voiding/obstructive signs and symptoms due to was used for statistical analysis of data. mechanical/inflammatory/proliferative alterations.
