Asian Journal of Andrology (2009) 11: 461–477 npg
KEYWORDS: patients, test, semen, five-glass, prostatitis, tests, two-glass, analysis, four-glass, bacterial, chronic, positive, diagnostic, therapy, pathogens


The XLStatistics 5.71 program blocker (Alfuzosin ER, 10 mg day−1) was administered (©Rodney Carr; for voiding/obstructive signs and symptoms due to was used for statistical analysis of data. mechanical/inflammatory/proliferative alterations. Herbal extracts and supplements (Serenoa repens 340 3 Results mg twice daily, lycopene, selenium) were added to the medication regime. 3.1 Addition of semen cultures enhances the sensitivity Combination therapy included a daily dose of standard segmented tests for prostatic localization of | Asian Journal of Andrology npg Semen analysis in chronic bacterial prostatitis Vittorio Magri et al. uropathogens respectively; j was 81.8 for the five-glass test and 14.6 Retrospective analysis of bacteriological data in 696 for the two-glass test. Likelihood ratios of tests are also patients showing signs and symptoms of prostatitis and shown in Figure 2. LR+ relative to two-glass or four- meeting restrictive selection criteria resulted in three glass tests was higher than the corresponding values different diagnostic scenarios: (i) a two-glass PPMT, shown by the five-glass test. The LR– of the five-glass in which only VB2 and VB3 samples were taken into test was lower than the corresponding values shown by account for uropathogen detection, (ii) a full four-glass both the two-glass and the four-glass assays. In this test, comprising VB1, VB2, EPS, and VB3 samples, case, the five-glass test performs better than the four- and (iii) a ‘five-glass’ test, joining a four-glass test with or two-glass tests because an LR– closer to the unit post-VB3 ejaculate culture and analysis. indicates that a diagnostic assay cannot discriminate The patients’ records were reviewed for detection between diseased and non-diseased subjects showing a of TUs or UPs. negative test. Table 1 lists the number of patients with positive Differences between test outcomes were highly single or multiple localizations of TU or UP. significant in the case of UPs (Table 3; P < 0.0001 Table 2 compares the total number of patients showing for the null hypothesis for all comparisons, χ2 test), positive or negative microbiological localizations on the and the five-glass test showed increased sensitivity basis of different diagnostic tests, stratified by class compared with the two standard comparators (Table 4). of pathogen. A two-glass or four-glass test yielded The parameters of grouping sensitivity and specificity 20 (2.9%) or 33 (4.7%) positive localizations for (j, AUROCC) were also higher for the five-glass test TUs, respectively. As a consequence, 676 (two-glass) compared with the four- or two-glass tests, and
