Asian Journal of Andrology (2009) 11: 461–477 npg
KEYWORDS: patients, test, semen, five-glass, prostatitis, tests, two-glass, analysis, four-glass, bacterial, chronic, positive, diagnostic, therapy, pathogens


or 33 (4.7%) positive localizations for (j, AUROCC) were also higher for the five-glass test TUs, respectively. As a consequence, 676 (two-glass) compared with the four- or two-glass tests, and likelihood and 663 (four-glass) patients of our cohort of 696 ratios followed a trend similar to that observed for the symptomatic subjects were classified into the abacterial TU group (Figure 2, panels C, D). group. With the five-glass test, the number of patients with positive cultures for TUs increased to 120 (17.2% 3.2 Effect of pharmacological treatment of patients of 696 patients) (i.e., 6-fold or 3.6-fold) compared with with positive localizations detected by a four-glass, a the two- or four-glass tests, respectively. A similar two-glass, or a five-glass assay trend was observed in the UP group. As shown in Table 2, the five-, four-, or two-glass Results of the χ2 test applied to 2 × 2 contingency tests allowed the localization of TUs in 120, 33, and 20 tables comparing the five-glass test with the four-glass symptomatic patients, respectively, whereas UPs were or two-glass tests (Table 3) served to reject the null detected in 130, 56, and 45 patients, respectively. hypothesis that differences in segmented tests would not The effect of a protocol of combination therapy affect test outcomes (P < 0.0001 for all comparisons). including a fluoroquinolone and a macrolide, associated Contingency tables allowed the calculation of relative with an alpha-adrenoceptor blocker and a S. repens sensitivity and specificity between five-glass and four- extract [30–32], was evaluated in these six groups of glass or two-glass tests. Table 4 shows that—for any class patients. Table 5 lists the eradication rates stratified by of pathogen—the five-glass test was characterized by a pathogen class and diagnostic test. The χ2 test revealed marked increase in sensitivity and a lesser decrease no differences between eradication rates (P > 0.8 for in specificity compared with both four- and two-glass all comparisons), confirming the null hypothesis tests. that different diagnostic tests would not affect the Sensitivity and specificity allowed the calculation of eradication rates of isolated pathogens. three comparative parameters: the AUROCC, Youden’s Figure 4 shows the long-term effect of therapy on index (j), and LR. voiding signs (i.e., Q [panel A] and %BVV [panel B]) max In the case of five-glass vs. four-glass comparison in patients showing TU or UP localizations by the five-, for detection of TUs, the AUROCC was 93.4 for the four-,
