Asian Journal of Andrology (2009) 11: 461–477 npg
KEYWORDS: patients, test, semen, five-glass, prostatitis, tests, two-glass, analysis, four-glass, bacterial, chronic, positive, diagnostic, therapy, pathogens


Stamey test with the five-glass test and the two-glass PPMT with the five-glass test for the detection of traditional uropathogens or unusual pathogens. AUROCC, area under receiver operator characteristic curve; j, Youden’s Index; LR+, likelihood ratio for a positive test; LR–, likelihood ratio for a negative test. significant after a single cycle of therapy (P = 0.044, bacterial infection in a number of prostatitis patients Mann–Whitney/Wilcoxon), and lost significance when responding symptomatically to antibacterial treatment semen bacterial clearance was achieved in both groups is because of the insufficient sensitivity of currently (P = 0.13, Mann–Whitney/Wilcoxon). No differences available LUT segmented tests . Recently, a were recorded between the two groups when Q , number of published studies focused on semen culture max %BVV, and NIH-CPSI voiding and life quality scores and analysis in CP patients . These were compared (data not shown). reports demonstrated the efficacy of semen analysis in detecting pathogens that cause CBP. However, with 4 Discussion one exception, Reference , in these studies semen analysis was investigated as an alternative to prostatic Some authors have proposed that failure to detect massage in the context of a modified four-glass test Asian Journal of Andrology | Semen analysis in chronic bacterial prostatitis npg Vittorio Magri et al. Figure 3. Voiding parameters in symptomatic patients showing positive localizations of traditional uropathogens (TU) or unusual pathogens (UP) using the five-glass (black bars), four-glass (white bars), or two-glass (shaded bars) tests. Patients were subjected to one or two cycles of combination therapy with ciprofloxacin, azithromycin, alfuzosin, and S. repens. At microbiological eradication (time point T1), antibacterial agents were suspended and the remaining drugs were continued for a period of 6 months (T1–T2). The follow- up at the end of therapy was extended for 24 months, up to time point T6. (A): Time course of urine peak flow rate (Q ). aP < 0.0001 max vs. T0; bP = 0.046 vs. T1. Paired t-test. Intergroup differences at each time point (ANOVA): P > 0.1 (TU and UP together); P > 0.1 (TU only); P > 0.1 (UP only). (B): Time course of post-micturition percent bladder voided volume (% BVV). aP < 0.0001 vs. T0; bP = 0.005 vs. T0; cP = 0.01 vs. T0. Paired t-test. Intergroup differences at each time point (ANOVA): P > 0.1 (TU and UP together); P > 0.1 (TU only); P > 0.1 (UP only). | Asian Journal
