Asian Journal of Andrology (2009) 11: 461–477 npg
KEYWORDS: patients, test, semen, five-glass, prostatitis, tests, two-glass, analysis, four-glass, bacterial, chronic, positive, diagnostic, therapy, pathogens


administered for a period of 6 months, up to time point T2. (A): Urine peak flow rate (Q ); T1 vs. T0, P = max 0.0022; T2 vs. T0, P = 0.00013. (B): Bladder percent voided volume; T1 vs. T0, P = 0.0056; T2 vs. T0, P < 0.0001. Paired t-test. Figure 6. National Institutes of Health Chronic Prostatitis Symptom Index (NIH-CPSI) scored in 64 patients showing or as an alternative to traditional segmented tests positive semen cultures for uropathogens, but negative VB1, VB2, EPS, and VB3 samples (four-glass test). (A): Values at T1 as a whole . Our study indicates that, rather than and T2 are significantly different from T0 and T1, respectively (P representing a diagnostic alternative, semen culture and < 0.0001 in both cases). (B): T1 vs. T0, P = 0.00103; T2 vs. T1 analysis can complement traditional four- or two-glass or T0, P < 0.0001. (C): impact of the disease on patients’ quality assays to detect an increased number of pathogens. As of life; T1 vs. T0 and T2 vs. T1 or T0, P < 0.0001. Wilcoxon shown by Zegarra Montes and coworkers , when signed rank test. used alone, semen analysis may misdiagnose a fraction of symptomatic patients. As EPS/VB3 cultures may in some cases evidence pathogens not detected in the may in fact provide a propulsive force facilitating the ejaculate, we believe that a four-glass test and semen extrusion of prostatic material and pathogens, mobilized analysis should be combined in the framework of a by the prostatic massage. This is shown in Table 1: sequential five-glass test. addition of semen to a four-glass test allowed the In this context, collection of the ejaculate after detection of largely increased numbers of Enterococcus the VB3 sample may be advantageous, because it can spp., E. coli, Staphylococcus, and Streptococcus spp. generate a washout of the prostate and thus complement isolates, in agreement with the findings of a CPCRN the prostatic massage, especially in the absence of study . EPSs. The contraction of prostatic stromal smooth In their report, Zegarra Montes and coworkers muscle fibres during the emission phase of ejaculation admitted that a limitation of their study was not having | Asian Journal of Andrology npg Semen analysis in chronic bacterial prostatitis Vittorio Magri et al. followed the response of their symptomatic patients to symptomatic bacterial infection at the prostatic level, antibiotic treatment. Indeed, a relationship between
