Asian Journal of Andrology (2009) 11: 461–477 npg
KEYWORDS: patients, test, semen, five-glass, prostatitis, tests, two-glass, analysis, four-glass, bacterial, chronic, positive, diagnostic, therapy, pathogens


analysis in chronic bacterial prostatitis Vittorio Magri et al. followed the response of their symptomatic patients to symptomatic bacterial infection at the prostatic level, antibiotic treatment. Indeed, a relationship between the because the five-glass test detected about fourfold or mere isolation of a pathogen and its actual causative sixfold more TUs when compared with the four- or role in prostatitis can be better defined by investigating two-glass tests, respectively. In several cases (n = 35), the clinical evolution of the syndrome after eradication semen contained the same pathogens found in EPS/ of the detected pathogen. VB3 samples and confirmed the localization evidenced In this respect and within the limits of an observational by the standard tests and, hence, the diagnosis of type study, we have shown that the increased population II CBP. In other cases, semen analysis alone allowed of patients showing positive localization by the five- localization of pathogens in symptomatic patients, glass test responded to pharmacological treatment in a which would have been classified into the category III manner not statistically different from that of patients CP/CPPS on the basis of negative results of the four- diagnosed by means of traditional segmented assays. glass test (i.e., in 87 patients in the TU group and Thus, symptomatic patients classified as affected by in 74 patients in the UP group). bacterial prostatitis based on the five-glass, four-glass, Besides TUs or UPs investigated in the present or two-glass assays showed homogeneous responses study, other organisms that are not analysed in daily diagnostic test adopted. Such homogeneous response aetiological determinants of prostatic infection. points to a common aetiology of the condition of all Imirzalioglu et al. have shown that innovative diagnosed patients (i.e., bacterial infection). molecular and chromatography techniques, associated It is important to underline that the improvement with bioinformatic analysis, may reveal fastidious and of Q , %BVV, and CPSI scores was extended beyond anaerobic bacteria that have been shown to represent an max the 6-month period of prolonged therapy with alpha- important fraction (around 22%) of causative pathogens blockers and S. repens extracts. Therefore, sustained in urinary tract infections. remission from signs and symptoms of CP cannot Nevertheless, because infection by TUs was demon- be attributed to the transient effect of these agents, strated in only 17.2% of symptomatic patients by the but is more likely due to permanent eradication of five-glass procedure, our study confirms non-bacterial the pathogens localized
