Asian Journal of Andrology (2009) 11: 461–477 npg
KEYWORDS: patients, test, semen, five-glass, prostatitis, tests, two-glass, analysis, four-glass, bacterial, chronic, positive, diagnostic, therapy, pathogens


of these agents, strated in only 17.2% of symptomatic patients by the but is more likely due to permanent eradication of five-glass procedure, our study confirms non-bacterial the pathogens localized at the prostatic level by the aetiology as the primary cause of CP syndromes. different tests. However, this does not exclude a role Analysis of different diagnostic scenarios allowed of these agents in rapid symptom relief, even before us to build contingency tables and compare the relative microbiological eradication. sensitivity and specificity between five-glass and four- The reliability of semen as a diagnostic sample glass or two-glass tests. Table 4 shows that—for any is further supported by our subset analysis performed class of pathogen—compared with either four- or two- on patients showing uropathogens in semen but not glass tests, the five-glass test was characterized by a in VB1, VB2, EPS, or VB3. These symptomatic marked increase in sensitivity, associated with a lesser patients, who were negative to the Meares–Stamey decrease in specificity. test and should have been classified by exclusion into Increased sensitivity implies a natural trade-off the CP/CPPS class, showed sustained remission by with the specificity of a given test, thus hampering the antibacterial treatment and, importantly, long after grouping sensitivity and specificity within a single suspension of alpha-blocker therapy. Moreover, NIH- index or parameter, such as (i) the AUROCC, (ii) CPSI scores in this cohort of patients suggest that Youden’s index (j), or (iii) LR, represents a more eradication of uropathogens specifically localized in appropriate approach to comparison of the tests. The semen samples may be associated with pain reduction, display system according to Biggerstaff , which but that this symptom persists when semen clearance includes grouping all these parameters in a single fails, although voiding symptoms were improved in comparative graph, showed that the five-glass assay non-eradicated patients, probably thanks to the effect of falls into the area classifying a test as superior to a alpha-adrenoceptor blockers. standard comparator for "confirming the absence of In summary, our results confirm that standard tests disease" (Figure 3). However, this classification is may underestimate the number of patients showing a applied when sensitivity and specificity values are Asian Journal of Andrology | Semen analysis in chronic bacterial prostatitis npg Vittorio Magri et al. calculated from 2 × 2 contingency tables comparing of prostatic infection by TUs or by UPs . The TU the positivity/negativity of a test with the presence
