Asian Journal of Andrology (2009) 11: 461–477 npg
KEYWORDS: patients, test, semen, five-glass, prostatitis, tests, two-glass, analysis, four-glass, bacterial, chronic, positive, diagnostic, therapy, pathogens


Magri et al. calculated from 2 × 2 contingency tables comparing of prostatic infection by TUs or by UPs . The TU the positivity/negativity of a test with the presence and UP groups showed a good correlation between by Nickel et al. and Zegarra Montes et al. – the view that organisms other than the traditionally comparison is made with positivity/negativity of a recognized uropathogens may play a role in prostatitis reference standard test, the five-glass assay may be . This is in agreement with data more recently appropriately described as "superior for confirming shown by Nickel and Xiang . the negative outcome" of the comparator four-glass or A major limitation of segmented tests is repre- two-glass test. In our case, superiority is due to the sented by the likelihood of urine or semen to collect lower LR− shown by the five-glass test, relative to contaminating urethral organisms. In a key review both standard tests. In other words, semen analysis can article in 1981, Stamey stated that EPS or ejacu- complement standard tests to increase their negative late samples might contain such organisms, which predictive value (NPV) (e.g., NPV = 0.99 vs. can mislead the diagnosis of an infection at the 5-glass NPV = 0.86). As the diagnosis of category III CP/ prostatic level. Indeed, the viscosity of semen and 2-glass CPPS is based on exclusion of demonstrable prostatic the mechanical force applied during masturbation infection , superiority of the five-glass test in may result in detachment from the urethral walls confirming the negative outcomes of four- or two-glass of organisms colonizing the more distal tract of the tests may be interpreted in terms of an increased power urethra. In their context, Stamey’s observations were in the discrimination between category II CBP and meant to stress the limitations of the VB1 sample category III CP/CPPS. The therapeutic implications of in detecting the presence of urethral contaminants. increased diagnostic power are of notable importance To reduce ambiguity in the interpretation of EPS or because enhanced accuracy in differential diagnosis semen cultures, Stamey proposed to attempt between bacterial and abacterial prostatitis can greatly urethral clearance with oral penicillin or nitrofurantoin the choice of specific drugs for effective antibacterial such a procedure is unlikely to be adopted and can therapy, decrease the need for empirical treatment, and be misleading, due to the increasing fraction of reduce the emergence of chemoresistance caused by the
