Asian Journal of Andrology (2009) 11: 461–477 npg
KEYWORDS: patients, test, semen, five-glass, prostatitis, tests, two-glass, analysis, four-glass, bacterial, chronic, positive, diagnostic, therapy, pathogens


unlikely to be adopted and can therapy, decrease the need for empirical treatment, and be misleading, due to the increasing fraction of reduce the emergence of chemoresistance caused by the chemoresistant commensals and pathogens. A urethral inappropriate use of antibiotics. swab, sterilely collected before the emission of VB1, Figure 3 shows that similar comparative patterns might be a reasonable alternative to complement VB1 Gram-positive bacteria and Mycoplasmata. Discussing the quantitative measurement of bacterial loads. lack of reproducibility of Gram-positive localizations in In conclusion, our data indicate that the presence segmented tests, Krieger and coworkers suggested of pathogens in semen is likely to be indicative of an that these bacteria might represent intermittently shed, underlying prostatic infection if semen is analysed in non-pathogen organisms transiently colonizing the the frame of a complete five-glass test. In this context, LUT. Indeed, several authors suggest that lactobacilli, semen culture and analysis may represent an important coryneforms, streptococci, or other Gram-positive component of the diagnostic workup in patients showing bacteria may survive in the prostate as non-pathogenic clinical signs and symptoms of CP. commensals (reviewed in Reference ). However, The limits of our study lay in its retrospective, we and others have documented, in the past and also observational design. From a database of patients in this paper, that eradication of uncommon pathogens subjected to a panel of microbiological assays, we (mostly Gram-positive bacteria) in symptomatic simulated the diagnostic scenarios of different segmented patients is associated with remission of CP signs and tests. Moreover, patients included in our treatment symptoms in a manner not statistically different from protocol showed signs and laboratory findings of CBP: 37]. In particular, we have performed a comparative CPPS without microbiological localization would have analysis of microbiological and clinical responses to the responded to combination therapy (this is currently same combination therapy protocol described in this under investigation). Ideally, distinct groups of paper in 104 symptomatic patients showing evidence randomized patients should be subjected to different | Asian Journal of Andrology npg Semen analysis in chronic bacterial prostatitis Vittorio Magri et al. segmented tests and to subsequent single-agent 16 Nickel JC. Classification and diagnosis of prostatitis: a gold antibacterial treatment. standard? Andrologia 2003; 35: 160–7. 17 Weidner W, Ludwig M, Braehler E, Schiefer HG. Outcome of antibiotic therapy with ciprofloxacin in chronic bacterial Acknowledgment prostatitis. Drugs 1999; 58: 103–6. 18 Weidner W, Anderson RU. Evaluation of acute and chronic We
