Stroke in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, adults, rehabilitation, adults stroke, data, quality, stroke rehabilitation, care, clinical, statement, source, collected, information, example, healthcare


Quality statement Adults presenting at an accident and emergency (A&E) department with suspected stroke are admitted to a specialist acute stroke unit within 4 hours of arrival. [2010, updated 2016] Rationale Specialist acute stroke units are associated with improved patient safety due to better outcomes, such as reduced disability and mortality, because of the range of specialist treatments they provide. Admission to these units should be within 4 hours of arrival at A&E, so that treatment can begin as quickly as possible, and to help prevent complications. Some adults with acute stroke may need treatment in higher-level units, such as high dependency or intensive care units. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements and written clinical protocols to ensure that adults presenting at an A&E department with suspected stroke are admitted to a specialist acute stroke unit within 4 hours of arrival. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare provider organisations, for example, from clinical or service protocols. Process Proportion of A&E department presentations of suspected stroke in adults in which the person is admitted to a specialist acute stroke unit within 4 hours of arrival. Numerator – the number in the denominator in which the person is admitted to a specialist acute stroke unit within 4 hours of arrival. Denominator – the number of A&E department presentations of suspected stroke. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example, from patient records. The Sentinel Stroke National Audit Programme (SSNAP) clinical audit and the NHS Digital Clinical Commissioning Group (CCG) Outcomes Indicator Set indicator 3.5 include the percentage of patients directly admitted to a stroke unit within 4 hours of arrival at hospital. Outcome a) Mortality rates of adults who have a stroke. Data source: Data can be collected locally using the SSNAP clinical audit and the NHS Digital CCG Outcomes Indicator Set indicator 1.5 to report mortality within 30 days of hospital admission for stroke. b) Change in Modified Rankin Score at 6 months after a stroke. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example, from patient records. The
