Stroke in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, adults, rehabilitation, adults stroke, data, quality, stroke rehabilitation, care, clinical, statement, source, collected, information, example, healthcare


Rankin Score at 6 months after a stroke. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example, from patient records. The SSNAP clinical audit includes the Modified Rankin Score at 6 months after a stroke. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (such as secondary care providers) ensure that systems are in place for adults presenting at an A&E department with suspected stroke to be admitted to a specialist acute stroke unit within 4 hours of arrival. Healthcare professionals admit adults presenting at an A&E department with suspected stroke to a specialist acute stroke unit within 4 hours of arrival. Commissioners ensure that they commission services that can demonstrate that adults presenting at A&E departments with suspected stroke are admitted to a specialist acute stroke unit within 4 hours of arrival. Adults with suspected stroke who go to A&E are admitted to an acute stroke unit within 4 hours of arriving at A&E. An acute stroke unit has special equipment and a team of doctors, nurses, physiotherapists and other healthcare professionals who provide specialist treatment as quickly as possible and help to prevent further problems. Source guidance • Stroke and transient ischaemic attack in over 16s: diagnosis and initial management. NICE guideline NG128 (2019, updated 2022), recommendation 1.3.1 • The 4-hour timeframe is based on the SSNAP target Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Admission to a specialist acute stroke unit Admission should be within 4 hours of arrival at the A&E department for adults with suspected stroke, following an initial assessment (unless their care needs should be provided elsewhere, such as an intensive care unit). [Adapted from NICE's guideline on stroke and transient ischaemic attack in over 16s, recommendation 1.3.1, and SSNAP] Specialist acute stroke unit A discrete area in the hospital designated for people with stroke. It is staffed by a specialist stroke multidisciplinary team, who have access to equipment for monitoring and rehabilitation. The Stroke Unit Trialists' Collaboration provides 5 key characteristics of markers of a good specialist acute stroke unit: • a consultant physician with responsibility for stroke • formal links with patient and carer organisations • multidisciplinary meetings at least weekly to plan patient care • provision of information to patients about stroke • funding for external courses and uptake. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on stroke and transient ischaemic attack in
