Stroke in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, adults, rehabilitation, adults stroke, data, quality, stroke rehabilitation, care, clinical, statement, source, collected, information, example, healthcare


to plan patient care • provision of information to patients about stroke • funding for external courses and uptake. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on stroke and transient ischaemic attack in over 16s, recommendation 1.3.1, and SSNAP] Quality statement 2: Intensity of stroke rehabilitation Quality statement Adults having stroke rehabilitation in hospital or in the community are offered at least 3 hours of rehabilitation covering a range of multidisciplinary therapy for a minimum of 5 days a week. [2010, updated 2016] Rationale Higher-intensity stroke rehabilitation therapies can improve the quality of life for adults who have had a stroke. The improvements that an adult with stroke should expect to achieve will depend on their health and abilities before and after the stroke, the severity of the stroke and the intensity of the rehabilitation therapy. The intensity of stroke rehabilitation should be suitable for the person, so that they are able to participate and make progress towards their functional goals. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements and written clinical protocols to ensure that adults having stroke rehabilitation in hospital or in the community are offered at least 3 hours of rehabilitation covering a range of multidisciplinary therapy for a minimum of 5 days a week. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare provider organisations, for example, from service or clinical protocols. Process a) Proportion of adults having stroke rehabilitation in hospital who receive at least 3 hours of rehabilitation covering a range of multidisciplinary therapy for a minimum of 5 days a week. Numerator – the number in the denominator who receive at least 3 hours of rehabilitation covering a range of multidisciplinary therapy for a minimum of 5 days a week. Denominator – the number of adults having stroke rehabilitation in hospital. Data source: The Sentinel Stroke National Audit Programme (SSNAP) clinical audit collects information on how many minutes and how many days patients receive different types of therapy in hospital. b) Proportion of adults having stroke rehabilitation in the community who receive at least 3 hours of rehabilitation covering a range of multidisciplinary therapy for a minimum of 5 days a week. Numerator – the number in the
