Stroke in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, adults, rehabilitation, adults stroke, data, quality, stroke rehabilitation, care, clinical, statement, source, collected, information, example, healthcare


the community who receive at least 3 hours of rehabilitation covering a range of multidisciplinary therapy for a minimum of 5 days a week. Numerator – the number in the denominator who receive at least 3 hours of rehabilitation covering a range of multidisciplinary therapy for a minimum of 5 days a week. Denominator – the number of adults having stroke rehabilitation in the community. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example, from patient records. Outcome Change in Modified Rankin Score at 6 months after a stroke. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example, from patient records. The SSNAP clinical audit includes the Modified Rankin Score at 6 months after a stroke. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (such as secondary care providers and community care providers) ensure that adults having stroke rehabilitation are offered at least 3 hours of rehabilitation covering a range of multidisciplinary therapy for a minimum of 5 days a week. Health and social care practitioners offer adults having stroke rehabilitation at least 3 hours of rehabilitation covering a range of multidisciplinary therapy for a minimum of 5 days a week. Commissioners ensure that they commission services in which adults having stroke rehabilitation are offered at least 3 hours of rehabilitation covering a range of multidisciplinary therapy for a minimum of 5 days a week. Adults having rehabilitation therapy after a stroke are offered at least 3 hours of rehabilitation therapy that they need on at least 5 days a week. Rehabilitation therapy is long-term support to help people regain their independence and cope with any remaining disabilities after a stroke. It may involve many different specialists, such as physiotherapists, occupational therapists and speech and language therapists. They can help people who have problems with their memory and concentration; speaking, reading and writing; emotions and feelings; sight; swallowing and eating; strength, balance and movement; and shoulder pain. They also include help to encourage physical activity and independent living. Source guidance Stroke rehabilitation in adults. NICE guideline NG236 (2023), recommendation 1.2.16 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Rehabilitation covering a range of multidisciplinary therapy A range of multidisciplinary therapy includes physiotherapy, occupational therapy, and speech and language therapy. Adults who have had a stroke should be offered all rehabilitation
