Stroke in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, adults, rehabilitation, adults stroke, data, quality, stroke rehabilitation, care, clinical, statement, source, collected, information, example, healthcare


a range of multidisciplinary therapy A range of multidisciplinary therapy includes physiotherapy, occupational therapy, and speech and language therapy. Adults who have had a stroke should be offered all rehabilitation therapies that are suitable for their needs, as long as they have the ability to participate and make progress towards their functional goals. Adults with stroke should be able to access rehabilitation at any stage of the stroke care pathway when needed. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on stroke rehabilitation in adults, recommendation 1.2.16, and expert opinion] Equality and diversity considerations Some adults who have had a stroke may not have the mental or physical ability to participate in at least 3 hours of rehabilitation covering a range of multidisciplinary therapy each day. Where it is agreed with the person that they are unable, or do not wish, to participate in rehabilitation therapy for at least 3 hours a day, service providers should ensure that therapy is still offered 5 days a week but for a shorter amount of time. It should be given at an intensity that allows the person to actively participate and at a level that enables them to make progress. Quality statement 3: Access to a clinical psychologist Quality statement Adults who have had a stroke have access to a clinical psychologist or a clinical neuropsychologist with expertise in stroke rehabilitation who is part of the core multidisciplinary stroke rehabilitation team. [new 2016] Rationale Many adults who have had a stroke experience psychological difficulties, including low mood and anxiety, as well as difficulties with cognition such as problems with memory and information processing. Psychological therapies may help people and their families or carers with these difficulties. Having a clinical psychologist or a clinical neuropsychologist as part of the core multidisciplinary stroke rehabilitation team can help to ensure that people have access to psychological therapy tailored to their needs. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements and protocols to ensure that services providing stroke care have a core multidisciplinary stroke rehabilitation team that includes a clinical psychologist or a clinical neuropsychologist with expertise in stroke rehabilitation. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare provider organisations, for example,
