Stroke in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, adults, rehabilitation, adults stroke, data, quality, stroke rehabilitation, care, clinical, statement, source, collected, information, example, healthcare


that includes a clinical psychologist or a clinical neuropsychologist with expertise in stroke rehabilitation. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare provider organisations, for example, from service protocols. The Sentinel Stroke National Audit Programme (SSNAP) organisational audit collects information on the number of clinical psychologists for stroke unit beds. Outcome Quality of life for adults who have had a stroke. Data source: Data can be collected from information collected locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example, from patient surveys. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (such as secondary care providers) ensure that the core multidisciplinary stroke rehabilitation team includes a clinical psychologist or a clinical neuropsychologist with expertise in stroke rehabilitation. Health and social care practitioners are aware of the need for a clinical psychologist or a clinical neuropsychologist with expertise in stroke rehabilitation to be part of the core multidisciplinary stroke rehabilitation team. Commissioners ensure that they commission services that have a clinical psychologist or a clinical neuropsychologist with expertise in stroke rehabilitation as part of their core multidisciplinary stroke rehabilitation team. Adults who have had a stroke who need help with psychological problems can see a clinical psychologist or a clinical neuropsychologist who specialises in stroke rehabilitation. The psychologist is part of the stroke rehabilitation team. Source guidance Stroke rehabilitation in adults. NICE guideline NG236 (2023), recommendation 1.1.3 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement The core multidisciplinary stroke team The team should comprise the following professionals with expertise in stroke rehabilitation: • consultant physicians specialising in stroke, or rehabilitation medicine • nurses • physiotherapists • occupational therapists • speech and language therapists • dietitians • clinical psychologists or clinical neuropsychologists • orthoptists • rehabilitation assistants • social workers. [NICE's guideline on stroke rehabilitation in adults, recommendation 1.1.3] Quality statement 4: Early supported discharge Quality statement Adults who have had a stroke are offered early supported discharge if the core multidisciplinary stroke team assess that it is suitable for them. [new 2016] Rationale Early supported discharge is an intervention for adults after a stroke that allows their care to be transferred from an inpatient environment to a community setting. It enables people to continue their rehabilitation therapy at home, with the same intensity and expertise that they would receive in hospital. This may not be suitable for all adults with stroke or in all circumstances. The
