Stroke in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, adults, rehabilitation, adults stroke, data, quality, stroke rehabilitation, care, clinical, statement, source, collected, information, example, healthcare


therapy at home, with the same intensity and expertise that they would receive in hospital. This may not be suitable for all adults with stroke or in all circumstances. The decision to offer early supported discharge is made by the core multidisciplinary stroke team after discussion with the person and their family or carer if applicable. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements and written clinical protocols to ensure that adults who have had a stroke are offered early supported discharge if the core multidisciplinary stroke team assess that it is suitable for them. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare provider organisations, for example, from clinical or service protocols. Process a) Proportion of adults who have had a stroke and are assessed as suitable for early supported discharge by the core multidisciplinary stroke team who receive it. Numerator – the number in the denominator who receive early supported discharge. Denominator – the number of adults who have had a stroke and are assessed as suitable for early supported discharge by the core multidisciplinary stroke team. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example, from patient records. b) Proportion of adults who have had stroke who are treated by an early supported discharge team. Numerator – the number in the denominator who are treated by an early supported discharge team. Denominator – the number of adults who have had a stroke. Data source: National data is collected using the Sentinel Stroke National Audit Programme (SSNAP) clinical audit, which reports the percentage of patients treated by a stroke-skilled early supported discharge team. Outcome a) Length of hospital stay for adults who have had a stroke. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example, from patient records. NHS England's Hospital Admitted Patient Care Activity includes average length of stay by primary diagnosis. b) Quality of life for adults who have had a stroke. Data source: Data can be collected from information collected locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example, from patient surveys. What the quality statement means for different
