Stroke in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, adults, rehabilitation, adults stroke, data, quality, stroke rehabilitation, care, clinical, statement, source, collected, information, example, healthcare


a stroke. Data source: Data can be collected from information collected locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example, from patient surveys. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (such as secondary care providers) ensure that systems are in place to offer early supported discharge to adults who have had a stroke if it is assessed to be suitable for them by the core multidisciplinary stroke team. Health and social care practitioners in the core multidisciplinary stroke team are aware of discharge pathways and offer early supported discharge to adults who have had a stroke if it is suitable for them. Commissioners ensure that they commission services that can provide early supported discharge services for adults who have had a stroke if it is assessed to be suitable for them by the core multidisciplinary stroke team. Adults who have had a stroke are offered 'early supported discharge' if their stroke team decides that it is suitable for them. This means that they are supported to go home from hospital as early as possible and have the same rehabilitation care at home. This is only offered if the person is well enough and it can be done safely. Source guidance Stroke rehabilitation in adults. NICE guideline NG236 (2023), recommendation 1.1.9 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Early supported discharge An intervention for people who have had a stroke that allows care to be transferred from an inpatient environment to a community setting to continue rehabilitation. The intensity of care and the expertise of those providing it is maintained. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on stroke rehabilitation in adults] Suitable for early supported discharge The core multidisciplinary stroke team will assess whether early supported discharge is suitable for adults who have had a stroke. The assessment takes into account the person's functional, cognitive and social circumstances. This may include, for example, the person's ability to move from bed to chair independently or with assistance, and whether a safe and secure environment can be provided at home. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on stroke rehabilitation in adults, recommendation 1.1.9, and expert consensus] The core multidisciplinary stroke team The team should comprise the following professionals with expertise in stroke rehabilitation: • consultant physicians specialising in stroke, or rehabilitation medicine • nurses • physiotherapists • occupational therapists • speech and language therapists • dietitians • clinical psychologists or clinical neuropsychologists •
