Stroke in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, adults, rehabilitation, adults stroke, data, quality, stroke rehabilitation, care, clinical, statement, source, collected, information, example, healthcare


• consultant physicians specialising in stroke, or rehabilitation medicine • nurses • physiotherapists • occupational therapists • speech and language therapists • dietitians • clinical psychologists or clinical neuropsychologists • orthoptists • rehabilitation assistants • social workers. [NICE's guideline on stroke rehabilitation in adults, recommendation 1.1.3] Equality and diversity considerations Early supported discharge is only suitable in a safe and secure environment. Therefore, it may not be suitable for some people because of their living arrangements, for example, if they are homeless, recent refugees, asylum seekers or migrant workers. It may not be suitable for people with significant cognitive and functional impairments. Quality statement 5: Return to work Quality statement Adults who have had a stroke are offered active management to return to work if they wish to do so. [new 2016] Rationale After a stroke, adults may have significant disabilities that prevent them from returning to work. Work can contribute to a person's identity and perceived status, has financial benefits, and can improve their quality of life and reduce ill health. Being able to return to work is also a sign that rehabilitation has been successful. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements and written clinical protocols to ensure that adults who have had a stroke are offered active management to return to work if they wish to do so. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare provider organisations, for example, from clinical or service protocols. Process Proportion of adults who have had a stroke who receive active management to return to work if they wish to do so. Numerator – the number in the denominator who receive active management to help them return to work. Denominator – the number of adults who have had a stroke who wish to return to work. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example, from patient records. Outcome a) Quality of life for adults who have had a stroke. Data source: Data can be collected from information collected locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example, from surveys of people who have had a stroke. b) Quality of life for
