Stroke in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, adults, rehabilitation, adults stroke, data, quality, stroke rehabilitation, care, clinical, statement, source, collected, information, example, healthcare


or education or find new employment, volunteering and educational opportunities. Some adults may be unable to work, so other occupational or education activities should be considered, including prevocational training. Quality statement 6: Regular review of rehabilitation goals Quality statement Adults who have had a stroke have their rehabilitation goals reviewed at regular intervals. [2010, updated 2016] Rationale Regularly reviewing the goals of an adult who has had a stroke helps to identify their values, beliefs and preferences, which may affect the kind of rehabilitation that would be suitable for them. It may also help to encourage and motivate the person, and improve the outcomes of rehabilitation. Goals should be set within 5 days of arrival at an accident and emergency (A&E) department to ensure they are established from the start of the rehabilitation process. They should then be reviewed at regular intervals to ensure that the goals are still relevant to the person who has had a stroke. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements and written clinical protocols to ensure that adults who have had a stroke have their rehabilitation goals reviewed at regular intervals. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare provider organisations, for example, from clinical or service protocols. Process a) Proportion of adults who have had a stroke who have their rehabilitation goals agreed within 5 days of arrival at A&E. Numerator – the number in the denominator who have their rehabilitation goals agreed within 5 days of arrival at A&E. Denominator – the number of adults who have had a stroke. Data source: Data is collected using the Sentinel Stroke National Audit Programme (SSNAP) core dataset question 4.7 and reported in the results of the clinical audit. b) Proportion of adults who have had a stroke who have their rehabilitation goals reviewed at regular intervals. Numerator – the number in the denominator who have their rehabilitation goals reviewed at regular intervals. Denominator – the number of adults who have had a stroke with agreed rehabilitation goals. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example, from patient records. Outcome a) Quality of life for adults
