Stroke in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, adults, rehabilitation, adults stroke, data, quality, stroke rehabilitation, care, clinical, statement, source, collected, information, example, healthcare


rehabilitation goals. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example, from patient records. Outcome a) Quality of life for adults who have had a stroke. Data source: Data can be collected from information collected locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example, from patient surveys. The SSNAP clinical audit includes a quality-of-life measure (EuroQoL EQ-5D-5L) at the 6-month post- stroke follow up. b) Readmission rates of adults who have had a stroke. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example, from patient records. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (such as primary, secondary and community care providers) ensure that systems are in place for adults who have had a stroke to have their rehabilitation goals reviewed at regular intervals. Healthcare professionals review regularly the rehabilitation goals of adults who have had a stroke. Commissioners ensure that they commission services in which adults who have had a stroke have their rehabilitation goals reviewed at regular intervals. Adults who have had a stroke have the opportunity to discuss and agree goals (things they would like to achieve) for their recovery and have them reviewed regularly to ensure they are still relevant. Source guidance Stroke rehabilitation in adults. NICE guideline NG236 (2023), recommendation 1.2.11 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Rehabilitation goals Goals for rehabilitation for people after a stroke should: • be meaningful and relevant to them • focus on activity and participation • be challenging but achievable • include both short- and long-term elements. [NICE's guideline on stroke rehabilitation in adults, recommendation 1.2.7] Reviewing goals at regular intervals Goals should be set within 5 days of arrival at A&E. Reviewing goals should take place at intervals suitable to the ability of the individual and nature of the goal, such as at 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months and annually thereafter. Reviews should take place in goal-setting meetings that are timetabled and held regularly, involve the person after stroke and, where appropriate, their family members and carers, in discussions. [NICE's guideline on stroke rehabilitation in adults, recommendations 1.2.8 and 1.2.11, and expert consensus] Equality and diversity considerations When setting goals for rehabilitation, healthcare professionals should be aware that adults with stroke may have cognitive or physical impairments, and at the acute stage participation for some
