Stroke in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, adults, rehabilitation, adults stroke, data, quality, stroke rehabilitation, care, clinical, statement, source, collected, information, example, healthcare


diversity considerations When setting goals for rehabilitation, healthcare professionals should be aware that adults with stroke may have cognitive or physical impairments, and at the acute stage participation for some adults may be limited until the person feels ready and more confident. Discussion about goals should take into account any additional needs, such as physical, sensory or learning disabilities, and the needs of people who do not speak or read English. People should have access to an interpreter or advocate if needed. Quality statement 7: Regular review of health and social care needs Quality statement Adults who have had a stroke have a structured health and social care review at 6 months and 1 year after the stroke, and then annually. [new 2016] Rationale Reviewing the health and social care needs of adults who have had a stroke enables health and social care practitioners to identify any problems or difficulties the person who had the stroke and their family or carers may be experiencing. This can help adults who have had a stroke and their family or carers to make changes to their care according to their needs. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements and written protocols to ensure that adults who have had a stroke have a structured health and social care review at 6 months and 1 year after the stroke, and then annually. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example, from clinical protocols and service specifications. Process a) Proportion of adults who have had a stroke who have a structured health and social care review at 6 months after the stroke. Numerator – the number in the denominator who have a structured health and social care review at 6 months after the stroke. Denominator – the number of adults who have had a stroke. Data source: The Sentinel Stroke National Audit Programme (SSNAP) collects and reports information in the clinical audit on the proportion of patients who have a follow-up assessment at 6 months post-admission. b) Proportion of adults who have had a stroke and had a structured health and social care review at 6 months after the stroke
