Stroke in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, adults, rehabilitation, adults stroke, data, quality, stroke rehabilitation, care, clinical, statement, source, collected, information, example, healthcare


follow-up assessment at 6 months post-admission. b) Proportion of adults who have had a stroke and had a structured health and social care review at 6 months after the stroke who have a review 1 year after the stroke. Numerator – the number in the denominator who have a review 1 year after the stroke. Denominator – the number of adults who have had a stroke and had a structured health and social care review at 6 months after the stroke. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example, from patient records. c) Proportion of adults who have had a stroke and had a structured health and social care review at 6 months and 1 year after the stroke, who have annual reviews thereafter. Numerator – the number in the denominator who have annual reviews. Denominator – the number of adults who have had a stroke and had a structured health and social care review at 6 months and 1 year after the stroke. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example, from patient records. Outcome a) Quality of life for adults who have had a stroke. Data source: Data can be collected from information collected locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example, from patient surveys. The SSNAP clinical audit includes a quality-of-life measure (EuroQoL EQ-5D-5L) at the 6-month post- stroke follow up. b) Readmission rates of adults who have had a stroke. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example, from patient records. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (such as primary, secondary and community care providers) ensure that systems are in place for adults who have had a stroke to have a structured health and social care review at 6 months and 1 year after the stroke, and then annually. Health and social care practitioners ensure that adults who have had a stroke have a structured health and social care review at 6 months and 1 year after the stroke, and then annually. Commissioners ensure that they commission services that enable adults who have had a stroke to have a structured health and social care review at 6 months and 1 year after the stroke, and then annually. Adults who have had
