Practice Guidelines
KEYWORDS: group, pharyngitis, streptococcal, days, penicillin, dose, oral, maximum, strong, group streptococcal, days strong, day, daily, streptococcal pharyngitis, high


Practice Guidelines IDSA Updates Guideline for Managing Group A Streptococcal Pharyngitis lymphadenitis. The symptoms of strepto- Guideline source: Infectious Diseases Society of America coccal pharyngitis often overlap with those Evidence rating system used? Yes of viral pharyngitis, and the two cannot be differentiated using clinical features alone Literature search described? Yes unless overt viral features are present. Guideline developed by participants without relevant financial ties to industry? No Diagnosis Available at: pharyngitis and viral pharyngitis are listed cis629.full.pdf+html in Table 1. Diagnosis of group A streptococ- cal pharyngitis should be confirmed using a rapid antigen detection test and/or culture of Coverage of guidelines The Infectious Diseases Society of America a throat swab. from other organizations (IDSA) has updated its 2002 guideline on A positive result on rapid antigen detec- does not imply endorse- managing group A streptococcal pharyngitis. tion testing is diagnostic for group A strep- ment by AFP or the AAFP. The illness primarily occurs in children five tococcal pharyngitis. A backup culture A collection of Practice to 15 years of age. Patients typically present should be performed in children and ado- Guidelines published in AFP is available at with sudden onset of a sore throat, pain with lescents with negative test results. A backup aafp.org/afp/practguide. swallowing, and fever. Examination shows culture generally is not necessary in adults tonsillopharyngeal erythema, often with because the incidence of the illness and the risk of subsequent rheumatic fever are low in adults; however, it can be considered. Table 1. Features Suggestive of Group A Streptococcal Antistreptococcal antibody titers are not and Viral Pharyngitis recommended in the routine diagnosis of acute pharyngitis. Group A streptococcal infection Viral infection Diagnostic testing is not recommended Sudden onset of sore throat Conjunctivitis if clinical features strongly suggest a viral Age 5 to 15 years Coryza etiology (e.g., cough, rhinorrhea, hoarse- Fever Cough ness, oral ulcers). Testing is generally not Headache Diarrhea recommended in children younger than Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain Hoarseness three years unless the child has risk factors, Tonsillopharyngeal inflammation Discrete ulcerative stomatitis such as an older sibling with the illness, Patchy tonsillopharyngeal exudates Viral exanthem because the illness is uncommon in this Palatal petechiae age group. Follow-up posttreatment testing Anterior cervical adenitis (tender nodes) is not routinely recommended, but may be Presentation in winter or early spring considered. Testing of household contacts of History of exposure to streptococcal pharyngitis patients with group A streptococcal
