Practice Guidelines
KEYWORDS: group, pharyngitis, streptococcal, days, penicillin, dose, oral, maximum, strong, group streptococcal, days strong, day, daily, streptococcal pharyngitis, high


is not routinely recommended, but may be Presentation in winter or early spring considered. Testing of household contacts of History of exposure to streptococcal pharyngitis patients with group A streptococcal pharyn- Scarlatiniform rash gitis is not routinely recommended. practice guideline for the diagnosis and management of group A streptococcal Patients with acute group A streptococcal pharyngitis: 2012 update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America. Clin Infect Dis. 2012;55(10):e91. pharyngitis should be treated with an antibi- otic that is likely to eradicate the organism, D3o3w8nl oaAdmede frroicma nth Fe aAmmeilryic aPnh Fyasmiciliya Pnh ysician website at www.aafp.owrgw/awfp..a Caofppy.roigrhgt/ ©af p2 013 American AcademVyo louf mFaem 8il8y ,P Nhyusimciabnesr. F5o r◆ t hSee pprtievmateb,e nr o1n,- 2013 commercial use of one individual user of the website. All other rights reserved. Contact for copyright questions and/or permission requests. Practice Guidelines usually for 10 days. Penicillin or amoxicil- Patients with recurrent pharyngitis and lin is commonly recommended because of laboratory evidence of group A streptococ- its narrow spectrum of activity, few adverse cus may be chronic carriers who are having effects, and modest cost. Alternative antibi- repeated viral infections. Antibiotics are not otics for those with penicillin allergy include generally recommended in this case, but a first-generation cephalosporin, clindamy- may be considered in the following situa- cin, clarithromycin (Biaxin), or azithromycin tions: (1) during a community outbreak of (Zithromax). Table 2 summarizes antibiotic acute rheumatic fever, acute poststreptococ- regimens for patients with and without peni- cal glomerulonephritis, or invasive group A cillin allergy. streptococcal infection; (2) during an out- Adjunctive therapy with an analgesic or break of group A streptococcal pharyngitis antipyretic (e.g., acetaminophen, nonsteroi- in a closed or partially closed community; dal anti-inflammatory drugs) can be consid- (3) when the patient has a family or personal ered to treat moderate to severe symptoms history of acute rheumatic fever; (4) when or control a high fever. Aspirin should not be the patient or family has excessive anxiety used in children, and adjunctive corticoste- about group A streptococcal infections; or roids are not recommended in the treatment (5) when tonsillectomy is being considered of group A streptococcal pharyngitis. only because the patient is a chronic carrier. Table 2. Treatment Regimens for Group A Streptococcal Infection Recommendation strength, quality Drug Dose/dosage Duration of evidence Patients without penicillin allergy Penicillin V, oral Children: 250 mg two or three times daily 10 days Strong, high Adolescents and
