Pulsed-field ablation for atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: ablation, heart, atrial, procedure, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, catheter, catheter ablation, committee, energy, evidence, stroke, case, thermal, tissue


1 Recommendations 1.1 Use pulsed-field ablation as an option to treat atrial fibrillation with standard arrangements in place for clinical governance, consent and audit. 1.2 Clinicians should enter details about everyone having the procedure onto the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research (NICOR) database and review local clinical outcomes. Why the committee made these recommendations Evidence shows the procedure reduces atrial fibrillation and its symptoms, increases quality of life in the short term, and raises no major safety concerns. More data collection would be useful to guide patient selection and to see how well the procedure works to prevent long-term complications of atrial fibrillation, such as stroke. 2 The condition, current treatments, unmet need and procedure The condition 2.1 Atrial fibrillation is an irregular contraction of the upper chambers of the heart (atria) and often causes the heart to beat rapidly. This makes the heart less effective at moving blood from the upper to the lower chambers of the heart. Symptoms include palpitations, dizziness, shortness of breath, fatigue and chest pain. It can have a substantial effect on quality of life. Complications of atrial fibrillation include stroke and heart failure. Atrial fibrillation can be transient (paroxysmal), lasting longer than 30 seconds but only up to 7 days, or it can be persistent, lasting more than 7 days. Current treatments 2.2 Standard treatments for symptomatic atrial fibrillation include lifestyle modification, drug therapy and procedural interventions. The aim of treatment is to prevent complications like stroke and alleviate symptoms. Drug treatments include anticoagulants to reduce the risk of stroke, and antiarrhythmics to restore or maintain the normal heart rhythm or to slow the heart rate. When medications do not work or are unsuitable, other treatments such as catheter ablation procedures may be used. The current standard catheter ablation techniques are radiofrequency ablation (RFA) and cryoballoon ablation (CBA). Laser balloon ablation is rarely used in the NHS. Unmet need 2.3 Atrial fibrillation is the most common heart rhythm disorder, affecting about 2% of the adult population. The prevalence is likely increasing because it is associated with age, underlying heart disease, diabetes, obesity and hypertension, which are also increasing in prevalence in the UK population. If left untreated, it is a significant risk factor for stroke, other morbidities and mortality. When standard medications do not work or are unsuitable, catheter ablation procedures are commonly offered. Most catheter ablation methods use thermal energy, by either
