Pulsed-field ablation for atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: ablation, heart, atrial, procedure, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, catheter, catheter ablation, committee, energy, evidence, stroke, case, thermal, tissue


for stroke, other morbidities and mortality. When standard medications do not work or are unsuitable, catheter ablation procedures are commonly offered. Most catheter ablation methods use thermal energy, by either burning (in RFA) or freezing (in CBA) heart tissue that conducts the irregular electrical impulses. Thermal ablation carries a risk of damaging neighbouring tissues. Pulsed-field ablation (PFA) uses electric field energy instead of thermal energy. Heart cells are very sensitive to electric field energy. So, it may be able to target heart tissue more precisely than thermal ablation, which may reduce the risk of damaging surrounding tissues like the oesophagus, nerves, and blood vessels. The procedure 2.4 PFA is a catheter ablation technique that uses electric field energy to destroy the heart cells that transmit abnormal electrical impulses. In the NHS, the procedure is usually done under general anaesthesia, but deep sedation is often used in other countries. As in other catheter ablation procedures for atrial fibrillation, a catheter is inserted into the femoral vein and advanced into the left atrium through a trans-septal puncture. The PFA catheter delivers rapid, high-voltage pulsed electric field energy to the tissue it is applied to. This causes pores to form in myocardial cells so they die (irreversible electroporation). PFA is currently used most for isolation of abnormal electrical activity transmitted through the pulmonary vein cells at the entrance to the left atrium. But it is also used on other structures such as the left atrial posterior wall and cavo-tricuspid isthmus. The aim is targeted destruction and scar formation in the tissue it is applied to, to disrupt the transmission of abnormal electrical impulses that cause atrial fibrillation while avoiding damage to surrounding tissues such as nerves and blood vessels. 3 Committee considerations The evidence 3.1 NICE did a rapid review of the published literature on the efficacy and safety of this procedure. This comprised a comprehensive literature search and detailed review of the evidence from 19 sources, which was discussed by the committee. The prioritised evidence included 4 systematic reviews and meta-analyses, 2 non-inferiority randomised controlled trials, 5 single-arm trials, an EU retrospective analysis of a prospective registry, a UK nationwide registry, a centre-level study done across 101 centres in the EU and Israel, a study that combined 2 single-arm trials, a prospective case series, a prospective cohort study, a retrospective case series, and a case report. It is presented in the summary
