Case report
KEYWORDS: azobactam, piperacillin-t, piperacillin-t azobactam, piperacillin, tazobactam, fever, thrombocytopenia, case, patient, eosinophilia, treatment, piperacillin tazobactam, induced, therapy, liver


Case report An unusual case of piperacillin- tazobactam- induced fever, eosinophilia, thrombocytopenia and liver damage Jiawen Lv,1 Guannan Wu,1 Fang Zhang,1 Xin Su 1,2,3 1Department of Respiratory SUMMARY or skin abscesses. No obvious rhonchi was heard and Critical Care Medicine, Piperacillin-t azobactam is a broad-s pectrum antimicrobial at bilateral lungs and no murmurs were audible in agent that is commonly used in clinical practice. The the cardiac valve areas. Initial laboratory tests in the China development of delayed drug hypersensitivity reaction emergency room included: white blood cell count 2Department of Respiratory (DHR) has been reported in several cases previously. Here 30.45×109/L, neutrophils 26.95×109/L, platelets and Critical Care Medicine, we describe an unusual case of non- immediate DHR 469×109/L, C-r eactive protein (CRP) 78 mg/L We report a 22- year- old man who developed fever, nase (LDH) 657 U/L. Computed tomography (CT) China 3Department of Respiratory eosinophilia, thrombocytopenia and elevated hepatic of the chest indicated multiple patchy opacities with and Critical Care Medicine, enzymes following 17 days of piperacillin-t azobactam cavities. The patient was admitted for further inves- (MSSA) pneumonia. These adverse reactions were Cardiac ultrasound indicated no signs of bacterial Guangzhou, China reversed immediately after antibiotic cessation. Our endocarditis. Methicillin-s ensitive Staphylococcus case highlights that clinicians should be aware of aureus (MSSA) was isolated from sputum. Repeated Correspondence to 210002, China; suxinjs@ 163. tuberculosis, including mycobacterium cultures of com sputum samples and the interferon-γ release test for tuberculosis infection, were negative. Chest CT Received 22 October 2020 BACKGROUND Accepted 14 December 2020 showed multiple dense consolidation with cavities Published Online First Piperacillin-t azobactam is a combination formu- at both side of the lungs and also indicated some 8 February 2021 lation of an ureidopenicillin and a beta-l actamase cavities with gas-l iquid level formation inside inhibitor with a broad spectrum of antibacterial pulmonary abscesses (figure 1). A small quantity of activity.1 2 It is effective for the treatment of patients pleural effusion presented on the scan. No obvious with polymicrobial infection caused by many abnormality was found on abdominal CT. A diag- Gram- negative, Gram- positive and beta- lactamase- nosis was made of S. aureus pneumonia, compli- producing bacteria, such as complicated nosocomial cated by pulmonary abscess. Initially the patient and intra- abdominal infections, and also is regarded empirically received intravenous vancomycin, 1 g as empiric therapy for patients who present with twice daily, and imipenem 1 g every 6
