Case report
KEYWORDS: azobactam, piperacillin-t, piperacillin-t azobactam, piperacillin, tazobactam, fever, thrombocytopenia, case, patient, eosinophilia, treatment, piperacillin tazobactam, induced, therapy, liver


and intra- abdominal infections, and also is regarded empirically received intravenous vancomycin, 1 g as empiric therapy for patients who present with twice daily, and imipenem 1 g every 6 hours. Three fever and neutropenia.3 days later the patient’s body temperature had As a typical antibiotic, piperacillin- tazobactam markedly decreased. Give the presence of MSSA is considered safe and well tolerated. However, and abnormality of liver function, antimicrobial some adverse reactions have been reported. The therapy was switched to intravenous piperacillin- most frequent complications include diarrhoea and tazobactam 4.5 g every 8 hours per day. hepatic dysfunction.4 Eosinophilia with fever and Intravenous piperacillin-t azobactam apparently haematological abnormality have been described as further improved the patient's symptoms and severe adverse effects of piperacillin-t azobactam, CT appearance. His body temperature remained and are also characteristically regarded as part of normal for 10 days. However, 17 days after contin- the non- immediate drug hypersensitivity reac- uous treatment with piperacillin- tazobactam, the tions (DHRs).5 6 Non- immediate DHRs tend to patient suddenly developed a high fever with a body occur in patients receiving piperacillin- tazobactam temperature of 38.5℃ and did not complain of any therapy over 10 days.7 Here we report an unusual other symptoms. Detailed physical examination did case of a non- immediate DHR reaction to not reveal any abnormal findings. Blood samples piperacillin-t azobactam. were taken for culture. Repeated chest CT did not show any deterioration or was suggestive of a new CASE PRESENTATION infection for the recurrence of fever. Laboratory A previously healthy 22-y ear-o ld man presented analysis indicated reduced platelets (66×109/L) © European Association of Hospital Pharmacists 2022. at our emergency room in January 2020 with high compared with the initial level (figure 2). On the Re- use permitted under CC fever (up to 40℃) for a week, accompanied with following days, the patient also had eosinophilia BY- NC. No commercial re- use. cough and expectoration. He had 3- year history of (1.36×109/L) and liver function abnormality Published by BMJ. smoking without intravenous drug abuse. Physical (alanine aminotransferase (ALT) 78 U/L, aspar- To cite: Lv J, Wu G, Zhang F, examination revealed: body temperature 39.5℃; tate aminotransferase (AST) 223 U/L). Potential et al. Eur J Hosp Pharm blood pressure 101/54 mmHg and tachypnea of viral infection of the upper respiratory tract was 2022;29:e91–e94. 28 breaths/minute. There were no signs of wounds excluded. Lv J, et al. Eur J Hosp
