Case report
KEYWORDS: azobactam, piperacillin-t, piperacillin-t azobactam, piperacillin, tazobactam, fever, thrombocytopenia, case, patient, eosinophilia, treatment, piperacillin tazobactam, induced, therapy, liver


101/54 mmHg and tachypnea of viral infection of the upper respiratory tract was 2022;29:e91–e94. 28 breaths/minute. There were no signs of wounds excluded. Lv J, et al. Eur J Hosp Pharm 2022;29:e91–e94. doi: e91 Case report Figure 1 Computed tomography (CT) images of a 22- year- old patient admitted with Staphylococcus aureus pneumonia in January 2020. CT showed multiple patchy opacities with cavities, some of which had gas- liquid level formation inside in the emergency room (A) and after admission (B). During the initiation of vancomycin and imipenem, slightly absorbed parts of inflammatory lesions were revealed on CT (C). Piperacillin-t azobactam treatment improved the CT findings on day 6 following administration (D). No indication of new infection was found after drug-i nduced fever. (E). No obvious focus was seen on CT scan 3 months after discharge (F). The piperacillin- tazobactam was suspected to be the most INVESTIGATIONS likely cause of the recurrent fever, eosinophilia, thrombocyto- This is an uncommon case of adverse drug response caused by penia and hepatic abnormalities, and hence was stopped. The piperacillin-t azobactam. Previous reports have revealed several fever quickly resolved within 24 hours following the termination cases of haematological abnormalities that were suspected as of piperacillin-t azobactam treatment and did not recur after- probably being piperacillin-t azobactam- induced side effects, wards. Platelet and eosinophil counts normalised on day 3 and including neutropenia, thrombocytopenia or anaemia.8 9 Other day 7 after cessation of piperacillin-t azobactam, respectively. reports showed that eosinophilia with systemic symptoms are The parameters of hepatic function declined nearly to normal regarded as kinds of adverse effects caused by the antibiotics.5 10 levels after a week following piperacillin-t azobactam cessation. The patient did not receive any additional medication (including In our work, we found a special case of delayed thrombocyto- antibiotic therapy) for the recurrent fever until discharge, and penia and eosinophilia that occurred simultaneously after the underwent supportive treatment without any complications. use of piperacillin- tazobactam for the treatment of S. aureus Figure 2 The development of eosinophilia, thrombocytopenia and liver function test abnormality during the course of piperacillin-t azobactam treatment with normal values for white cell count. Blood counts of eosinophils and platelets returned to normal levels after cessation of piperacillin-t azobactam on day 14 following initiation. Liver parameters returned to normal after 1 week following cessation of piperacillin- tazobactam treatment. PCT, procalcitonin. e92 Lv J, et al. Eur J Hosp Pharm
