Case report
KEYWORDS: azobactam, piperacillin-t, piperacillin-t azobactam, piperacillin, tazobactam, fever, thrombocytopenia, case, patient, eosinophilia, treatment, piperacillin tazobactam, induced, therapy, liver


on day 14 following initiation. Liver parameters returned to normal after 1 week following cessation of piperacillin- tazobactam treatment. PCT, procalcitonin. e92 Lv J, et al. Eur J Hosp Pharm 2022;29:e91–e94. doi: Case report pneumonia. The patient’s laboratory and clinical factors did not therapy. We reasoned that the eosinophilia was probably related show evidence of latent infection in other locations. The possi- to piperacillin- tazobactam as a non- immediate DHR. The mech- bile involvement of the upper respiratory tract was excluded. anism of piperacillin-t azobactam- induced eosinophilia is not entirely understood, but one theory is that activation of inter- leukin-5 (IL-5 ) on accumulation of toxic metabolites could cause TREATMENT activation of eosinophils and inflammatory cascades.13 Although The patient' diagnosis was S. aureus pneumonia, complicated there is no accurate diagnostic test or pathognomonic sign, the by pulmonary abscesses. The use of intravenous piperacillin- diagnosis of DRESS syndrome should be considered after expo- tazobactam apparently improved the patient's symptoms and CT sure to piperacillin-t azobactam for longer than 2 weeks. appearance. Although the patient developed fever, eosinophilia, Bone marrow suppression is a rare and serious adverse effect thrombocytopenia and liver damage caused by the treatment, of piperacillin-t azobactam, and it has been reported that abnor- the unusual syndromes gradually disappeared after cessation of malities occurred after 2 weeks of prolonged antibiotic use.8 The piperacillin-t azobactama. most common abnormality is neutropenia that is often accompa- nied with thrombocytopenia. Thrombocytopenia rarely develops OUTCOME AND FOLLOW-UP alone. Thus, we demonstrate an unusual isolated thrombocy- The fever resolved within 24 hours after stopping piperacillin- topenia after a long course of piperacillin- tazobactam. To our tazobactam treatment. The platelet and eosinophil counts both knowledge, isolated thrombocytopenia is thought likely to be returned to normal after the cessation of piperacillin-t azobactam. due to an immune- mediated reaction induced by drug admin- The parameters of hepatic function also declined nearly to istration that occurs suddenly and precipitously. Bose et al normal levels following treatment termination. described a case of abrupt and severe thrombocytopenia within 2 days of piperacillin- tazobactam administration.14 The patient DISCUSSION had a positive test for immunoglobulin G (IgG) antiplatelet anti- In the present case, the patient started to show the side effects bodies to piperacillin-t azobactam therapy, supporting the spec- of fever, thrombocytopenia and eosinophilia after 17 days of ulation of immune- related thrombocytopenia. Alzahrani et al piperacillin-t azobactam treatment. This is similar to previous
