Case report
KEYWORDS: azobactam, piperacillin-t, piperacillin-t azobactam, piperacillin, tazobactam, fever, thrombocytopenia, case, patient, eosinophilia, treatment, piperacillin tazobactam, induced, therapy, liver


azobactam therapy, supporting the spec- of fever, thrombocytopenia and eosinophilia after 17 days of ulation of immune- related thrombocytopenia. Alzahrani et al piperacillin-t azobactam treatment. This is similar to previous reported two cases of possible immune thrombocytopenia that reports in which drug induced- fever and associated adverse developed rapidly and severely in association with re-e xposure effects occurred from 11 to 17 days after the initiation of to piperacillin-t azobactam.15 Also the platelet count in periph- piperacillin-t azobactam administration. We have experienced eral blood improved after the discontinuation of piperacillin- this several times and have described this as the ‘dangerous tazobactam and the initiation of corticosteroid therapy, suggesting period’ for piperacillin- tazobactam- induced fever. Consequently the possibility of immune- mediated thrombocytopenia. we stopped piperacillin-t azobactam therapy immediately without In our case, the patient developed wild thrombocytopenia starting any other antibiotics or medication. Fortunately, this without any positive results of auto- immune antibodies or change patient's fever disappeared within 24 hours of the piperacillin- in complement C3. Since we stopped piperacillin-t azobactam tazobactam therapy being discontinued. Although the patient's immediately after the side effect occurred, the thrombocyto- blood CRP and procalcitonin increased in tandem with the fever, penia quickly resolved without corticosteroid therapy. It has they soon declined on day 3 after the termination of piperacillin- been suggested that this later-o nset thrombocytopenia is depen- tazobactam therapy. Based on the evidence, we believe there is dent on a delayed- type hypersensitivity. Among antibiotics, a correlation between the described side effects and piperacillin- the beta-l actam antibiotics are a common cause of immune tazobactam therapy. thrombocytopenia, while a beta-l actam- beta- lactamase inhib- It has been reported in some cases that piperacillin-t azobactam- itor combination, such as piperacillin-t azobactam, has rarely induced fever is regarded as a hypersensitivity reaction. Fever, been reported to induce immune-m ediated thrombocytopenia. eosinophilia, thrombocytopenia and liver damage are all part The aetiology of drug- induced immune thrombocytopenia is of the drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms complex and the mechanism of piperacillin-r elated thrombocy- (DRESS) syndrome.5 DRESS syndrome is a life-t hreatening, topenia is possibly associated with hapten- induced antibodies. rare adverse effect that frequently develops following exposure Some studies have suggested that small molecules like drugs to antibiotics or antiepileptics, which is characterised by fever, might induce an immune response when linked to macromole- rash, elevated liver enzyme levels, and leukocytosis with eosino- cules such
