Case report
KEYWORDS: azobactam, piperacillin-t, piperacillin-t azobactam, piperacillin, tazobactam, fever, thrombocytopenia, case, patient, eosinophilia, treatment, piperacillin tazobactam, induced, therapy, liver


drugs to antibiotics or antiepileptics, which is characterised by fever, might induce an immune response when linked to macromole- rash, elevated liver enzyme levels, and leukocytosis with eosino- cules such as proteins. The combination acts as a hapten and trig- philia.11 The RegiSCAR (European Register of Severe Cutaneous gers a humoral immune response. On re- exposure to the drug, Adverse Reactions) is a scoring system which is most commonly this leads to platelet destruction and this mechanism may explain used to categorise cases of DRESS into four groups: no case, the haemolytic anaemia.16 Another report revealed that pipera- possible case, probable case and definite case. Our patient cillin can induce hapten-s pecific antibodies that are reactive with presented several of the described features including fever, eosin- piperacillin-c oated blood cells.17 This similar mechanism may ophilia and elevated liver enzymes. Typical rash and enlarged account for the thrombocytopenia that is rarely seen in patients lymph nodes were not detected in our patient. Use of the after treatment with piperacillin, but this still needs further RegiSCAR indicated a possible relationship (score of 3) between confirmation experimentally. An explanation whereby the later- our patient’s manifestation of DRESS syndrome and treatment onset thrombocytopenia caused by piperacillin-t azobactam with piperacillin-t azobactam.12 likely occurs as a result of direct toxicity of myeloid precursors Our patient’s presentation of a fever and an elevated CRP should not be excluded. lasting for a transient period evoked a suspicion of latent viral Moreover, our patient also manifested liver dysfunction, having and haematological infection probably after prolonged use previously had normal liver function, while the haematological of piperacillin-t azobactam. However, no other probable aeti- abnormality appeared after the onset of drug-i nduced fever, and ology of eosinophilia could be identified, and the eosinophil the hepatic value returned to the normal level 1 week after drug abnormality associated with administration of piperacillin- cessation. Although hepatic dysfunction has been reported previ- tazobactam resolved soon after the termination of antibiotic ously in patients on piperacillin- tazobactam therapy, there is no Lv J, et al. Eur J Hosp Pharm 2022;29:e91–e94. doi: e93 Case report apparent relationship with mortality or progression. Saloojee permits others to distribute, remix, adapt, build upon this work non- commercially, et al showed that among 225 critically ill patients enrolled in and license their derivative works on different terms, provided the original work is properly cited, an indication of whether changes were
