Epigenetics of Inflammatory Bowel Diseases
KEYWORDS: ibd, epigenetic, inflammatory, cells, diseases, methylation, histone, dna, patients, inflammatory bowel, bowel, studies, genes, inflammation, shown


Epigenetics of Inflammatory Bowel Diseases REVIEW GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT Törüner and Ünal. Epigenetics of Inflammatory Bowel Diseases Murat Törüner1 , Nalan Gülşen Ünal2 Cite this article as: Törüner M, Ünal NG. Epigenetics of inflammatory bowel diseases. Turk J Gastroenterol. 2023;34(5):437-448. ABSTRACT Inflammatory bowel diseases are multifactorial, chronic, continuous, relapsing, and immune-mediated diseases of the gastrointestinal tract. It has been believed that mechanisms underlying inflammatory bowel diseases include genetic predisposition, environmental fac- tors, and altered immune response to the gut microbiome. The epigenetic modulation takes place via chromatin modifications, includ- ing phosphorylation, acetylation, methylation, sumoylation, and ubiquitination. The methylation levels of colonic tissue were found well correlated to blood samples in inflammatory bowel diseases. Moreover, the methylation level of specific genes was different between Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis. It has been shown that the enzymes affecting histone modifications like histone deacetylases and histone acetyltransferases do not act solely on histones but also affect the acetylation of many proteins such as p53 and STAT3. It has been already shown that a nonselective histone deacetylase inhibitor, Vorinostat (SAHA), which is currently being used in several cancer treatments, showed anti-inflammatory activities in mouse models. Among epigenetic alterations, long non-coding RNAs and microRNAs play significant roles in T-cell maturation, differentiation, activation, and senility. The long non-coding RNA and microRNA expression profiles can perfectly separate inflammatory bowel disease patients from healthy controls and are remarked as biomarkers of inflammatory bowel diseases. Overall, many studies have shown that epigenetic inhibitors can target significant signal pathways in exploring more epigenetic pathways regarding inflammatory bowel disease pathogenesis will help us to discover therapeutic targets and new drugs and agents targeting miRNAs in inflammatory bowel diseases. In general, discovering epigenetic targets could improve the diagnosis and treatment of inflammatory bowel diseases. Keywords: Inflammatory bowel diseases, ulcerative colitis, Crohn’s disease, epigenetics INTRODUCTION history of IBD.10 The first genetic locus on chromosome Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), ulcerative colitis 16 has been described in 1996 as the first IBD-associated (UC), and Crohn’s disease (CD) are multifactorial, chronic, gene locus.11 This locus was characterized as the NOD-2 continuous, relapsing, and immune-mediated diseases locus later on. Moreover, studies have shown that homo- of the gastrointestinal tract.1 Inflammatory bowel dis- zygosity of NOD2 is related to 20- to 40-fold increase in ease affects more than 1 million Americans, 2 million CD risk, whereas heterozygosity is only related to 2- to Europeans, and several hundreds of thousands
