Epigenetics of Inflammatory Bowel Diseases
KEYWORDS: ibd, epigenetic, inflammatory, cells, diseases, methylation, histone, dna, patients, inflammatory bowel, bowel, studies, genes, inflammation, shown


ALTERATION tem has played the main role in IBD pathogenesis, recent The gap between the environmental factors underly- studies showed that the innate immune system is playing ing autoimmune disorders and genetic susceptibility an important role in inducing gut inflammation. was filled by epigenetic mechanisms. Epigenetics is the study of mitotically heritable changes in the genome Several studies showed that altered host microbiota function without a change in nucleotide sequence. The plays a role in IBD pathogenesis, and it is believed that the main epigenetic mechanisms are DNA methylation, his- composition and diversity of the gut microbiota might be tone acetylation, RNA interference, and the position- playing a crucial role in the development of IBD. Patients ing of nucleosomes. These epigenetic mechanisms play with IBD have dysbiosis in their luminal bacteria, which is an important role in the interaction between genome mostly a reduction in the diversity of the microbial lumi- and the environment. They are potentially heritable and nal community.18-20 It has been also shown that there is reversible through cell division.29 Through these epigen- a greater fluctuation in gut microbiota compensation in etic processes, cells might be differentiated into differ- IBD patients when compared to the normal population.21 ent cell types and new phenotypes can be transferred to The dysbiosis of gut microbiota is found to be greater in daughter cells.30 patients with CD than in patients with UC. Besides, data from twin studies showed that gut microbiota is different between healthy siblings and discordant twins.22 In IBD, Disorders in epigenetic mechanisms (DNA methylation, studies showed that there is an alteration in gut flora.23,24 histone acetylation, and non-coding RNA expression) can There are several reports demonstrating that such altera- be linked to autoimmune disorders. DNA methylation is tions might be correlated with the relapse of CD after ileal established and maintained by DNA methyltransferase resection. Moreover, a cross-sectional study showed that (DNMT) enzyme family including DNMT 1, DNMT 3a, Faecalibacterium Prausnitzii was reduced in patients with DNMT 3b, and DNMT 3L while DNA demethylation can UC and their first-degree relatives as compared to nor- be established through passive demethylation by inhibi- mal controls.25 In the same study, the authors stated that tion on methylation or active demethylation by enzymes lower F. Prausnitzii numbers are correlated with shorter called cytosine deaminases. DNA methylation occurs remission periods and more frequent relapses/year. When commonly on the 5ʹ position on pyrimidine cytosines,
