Epigenetics of Inflammatory Bowel Diseases
KEYWORDS: ibd, epigenetic, inflammatory, cells, diseases, methylation, histone, dna, patients, inflammatory bowel, bowel, studies, genes, inflammation, shown


enzymes lower F. Prausnitzii numbers are correlated with shorter called cytosine deaminases. DNA methylation occurs remission periods and more frequent relapses/year. When commonly on the 5ʹ position on pyrimidine cytosines, patients are followed up, F. Prausnitzii numbers increased which is catalyzed by DNMTs. DNA methyltransfera- steadily to normal levels when patients were kept under sess are both responsible for maintaining DNA methyla- remission and decreased in periods with relapse. tion (DNMT1) and de novo methylation (DNMT 3a/b).31 Chromatin is the combination of both DNA and proteins, Like intestinal microbiota, environmental factors such as especially histones, which organize DNA into structural dietary habits and smoking play their role in IBD patho- units, called a nucleosome. Chromatin state can be modi- genesis. Such environmental factors are found to be fied by DNA methylation as well as post-transcriptional exerting their effect on intestinal microbiota resulting modifications of histones, which are the second major in a change in microbial composition26 and also they are epigenetic mechanism. shown to change the genome activity without chang- ing DNA structure.27 Poor dietary habits can lead to the Histones can be modified through acetylation, meth- modulation of immune responses which might result in ylation, phosphorylation, or ubiquitination, which occur the alteration of inflammatory responses.28 commonly in histone tail regions. Histone post-tran- scriptional modifications are usually kept in balance with In summary, IBD might be caused by interactions histone methyltransferases and histone demethylases, between the genome, alterations in the immune system, histone acetyltransferases (HATs), and histone deacety- intestinal microbiota, and environmental factors such as lases (HDACs). Histone acetylation by HAT usually results diet and smoking. However, there are still question marks in promoting a more open chromatin structure. Generally, on which mechanisms play roles in such interactions. hyperacetylation is characteristic of active genes. In Törüner and Ünal. Epigenetics of Inflammatory Bowel Diseases Turk J Gastroenterol 2023; 34(5): 437-448 contrast, histone deacetylation catalyzed by HDAC pro- exert their effects on the pathogenesis of autoimmune motes a well tightly wrapped nucleosome structure diseases such as IBD, diabetes mellitus, and rheumatoid and represses gene expression, finally resulting in gene arthritis. The expression levels of the significant gene silencing.32 pathways for IBD may be modulated by dietary inter- vention. Macro- and micronutrients (folate, vitamin B , microRNAs (miRNAs) are single-stranded non-coding vitamin D, selenium, and zinc), polyphenols, and phyto- RNAs and usually 22 nucleotides in length. Since their chemicals may affect DNA methylation,
