Epigenetics of Inflammatory Bowel Diseases
KEYWORDS: ibd, epigenetic, inflammatory, cells, diseases, methylation, histone, dna, patients, inflammatory bowel, bowel, studies, genes, inflammation, shown


vitamin B , microRNAs (miRNAs) are single-stranded non-coding vitamin D, selenium, and zinc), polyphenols, and phyto- RNAs and usually 22 nucleotides in length. Since their chemicals may affect DNA methylation, HDAC inhibition first description in the 1990s, over 1500 miRNAs have or activation, and the gut microbiota, thereby epigenetic been described. Through binding on functional RNAs, silencing of genes. Vitamin D receptor (VDR) gene poly- miRNAs can directly inhibit mRNA translation or induce morphisms are increasingly recognized as important in mRNA degradation.33 It has been shown that each miRNA IBD pathogenesis.41 can show complementarity with more than one mRNA, whereas each mRNA can be regulated by more than one A recent study demonstrated that ring finger protein 20/ miRNA.34,35 Altered miRNA expressions were found to be ring finger protein 40 (RNF20/RNF40) was epigenetic many neoplastic diseases and non-neoplastic diseases. modifier responsible for histone protein 2B (H2B) monou- biquitination. Loss of H2B monoubiquitination promotes intestinal inflammation via decreased VDR activity in CD Nowadays, it is becoming clear that there is crosstalk patients and mouse models. Nevertheless, all these find- between different epigenetic mechanisms as well as ings supporting an important role of vitamin D and VDR between epigenetic mechanisms and environmental fac- polymorphisms in IBD, environmental, or epigenetic mod- tors. There are several studies which showed that DNA ifiers are remained to be elucidated.42 methylation can affect histone acetylation or the oppo- site.36,37 It has also been shown that a maternal methyl Smoking is a well-known factor that causes widespread donor supplementation diet can result in DNA hyper- epigenetic changes linked with an increased risk of smok- methylation and induce colitis in offspring murine.38 ing-related diseases and elevated mortality. Smoking induces intestinal inflammation by changing the intes- INFLAMMATORY BOWEL DISEASES AND EPIGENETIC tinal epithelium, immune system, microbiota functions, ALTERATION and interactions.43 A recent study pointed out that miR- In recent years, in the field of autoimmune diseases, 124 mediated the epigenetic effect of nicotine in IBD by a lot of progress has been achieved in detailed epigen- shifting the Th1/Th2 balance toward Th1. They demon- etic mechanisms to fill the gap between environmental strated that overexpressed miR-124 protected against factors and genetic background. Disorders in epigenetic mouse dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced colitis processes such as DNA methylation and histone modi- with a Th1 polarization in peripheral blood lymphocytes fications have been identified in autoimmune diseases’ and colon tissues, as well as
