Epigenetics of Inflammatory Bowel Diseases
KEYWORDS: ibd, epigenetic, inflammatory, cells, diseases, methylation, histone, dna, patients, inflammatory bowel, bowel, studies, genes, inflammation, shown


and STAT3.64 The overexpression of lncRNA MEG3 reduces ulceration Therefore, they can act through the epigenetic mecha- through upregulating IL-10 by sponging miR-98-5p and nisms and other non-epigenetic mechanisms as well. is a therapeutic strategy for UC treatment.75 The ani- Histone deacetylases contain 18 isoforms that are mal studies demonstrated that overexpression of TUG1 divided into 4 groups, class I, class II, class III, and class VI decreased UC progression. Also, overexpression of TUG1 having different functions.65 It has been already shown promoted cell proliferation and attenuated cell apoptosis that a nonselective HDAC inhibitor, Vorinostat (SAHA), in the TNFα-triggered cells.76 which is currently being used in several cancer treat- ments showed anti-inflammatory activities in the mouse Long non-coding RNA antisense non-coding RNA in the models.66 INK4 locus (lnc-ANRIL) has been described to be related Turk J Gastroenterol 2023; 34(5): 437-448 Törüner and Ünal. Epigenetics of Inflammatory Bowel Diseases to inflammation and immunity. However, few studies of diseases such as cancer and inflammatory disease79 have disclosed the relationship between lnc-ANRIL and (Figures 2 and 3). proinflammatory cytokines in severe or moderate IBD. IBD diagnostics and its application as a major marker for the third major mechanism in epigenetics. Studies in ani- appraising disease risk in pediatric IBD patients.77 The mals demonstrated that miRNAs regulate gut hemosta- lncRNA expression profile can perfectly separate IBD sis, and in recent years, there are several papers published patients from healthy control individuals. The clinically regarding tissue and peripheral blood miRNA expression relevant parameters and transcription characteristics of profiles and their functional importance in IBD pathogen- lncRNA remark that lncRNAs are biomarkers of IBD. esis. Several studies identified specific miRNAs regulat- ing several IBD-associated genes such as NOD2, IL23, microRNAs and Inflammatory Bowel Disease and ATG16L1.80,81 Distinct miRNA signatures have been microRNAs are endogenous, single-stranded, non-coding identified in peripheral blood samples from CD and UC RNA and have roles in the post-transcriptional regula- patients when compared to healthy subjects and quies- tion of gene expression.78 The expression of miRNAs that cent IBD patients.82-84 In addition, 11 miRNAs were also appears importantly dysregulated would cause inhibi- found to be differently expressed between pediatric IBD tion or activation of signaling pathways and lead to types patients and healthy children.85 miRNA-106a and -106b Figure 2. The different factors and biomarkers of epigenetics in IBD. Törüner and Ünal. Epigenetics of Inflammatory Bowel Diseases Turk J Gastroenterol 2023; 34(5): 437-448 are
