Epigenetics of Inflammatory Bowel Diseases
KEYWORDS: ibd, epigenetic, inflammatory, cells, diseases, methylation, histone, dna, patients, inflammatory bowel, bowel, studies, genes, inflammation, shown


children.85 miRNA-106a and -106b Figure 2. The different factors and biomarkers of epigenetics in IBD. Törüner and Ünal. Epigenetics of Inflammatory Bowel Diseases Turk J Gastroenterol 2023; 34(5): 437-448 are members of the miRNA-17 family, which are one of IBD. For instance, miRNA-301a levels were elevated in the first reported miRNAs to be differentially expressed TNBS-induced colitis; however, if miRNA-301a inhibi- in IBD patients. The miRNA-17 family is now known to tors are applied as an enema to mice with colitis, there target multiple autophagy genes that are associated is a decrease in proinflammatory cytokines that reflects with IBD, including ATG16L1. It has been demonstrated decreased inflammation.87 In another example, investiga- that miRNA-106b binds ATG16L1 resulting in decreased tors showed that by inhibiting miRNA210, which is also autophagy.86 Furthermore, another group of investiga- found to be highly expressed in the colonic mucosa of UC tors showed that increased expression of miRNA-106b patients, they have been able to decrease the levels of is correlated with downregulated ATG16L1 in patients inflammation in TNBS-induced colitis in mice.88 with active CD.80 Recently, it has been demonstrated that multiple miRNAs are involved in the regulation of Epigenetic Inhibitors NOD2 gene expression and NOD2 is not only regulated by IL-12p35 and EBV-induced gene 3 (EBI3) are members of miRNAs but also exerts its downstream effects via miR- the IL-35 family, and they have an anti-inflammatory role NAs. Brain et al showed that miRNA-29 downregulates in UC. EBI3 was recently demonstrated to be a target for IL-23 production by targeting its subunit p40.81 It is also nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) or nuclear factor kappa known that dendritic cells from NOD2 homogeneous or -ligh t-cha in-en hance r of activated B cells in human heterogeneous CD patients are associated with failure colon epithelial cells. Also, it has been shown that EBI3 to induce miRNA-29 resulting in increased production of expression is increased by epigenetic histone acetylation in human colon epithelial cells. The treatment with either therapy. Following the discovery of miRNA dysregulation the HDACi or the proinflammatory TNFα upregulates in IBD and in the light of preliminary studies, further stud- EBI3 expression in the colon epithelium.89 ies have been developed to investigate potential miRNA- based therapies. In recent years, there is an increasing number of studies coming out in the field of possible Zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) is an element of polycomb- clinical applications of miRNA-targeted therapies in
