Epigenetics of Inflammatory Bowel Diseases
KEYWORDS: ibd, epigenetic, inflammatory, cells, diseases, methylation, histone, dna, patients, inflammatory bowel, bowel, studies, genes, inflammation, shown


years, there is an increasing number of studies coming out in the field of possible Zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) is an element of polycomb- clinical applications of miRNA-targeted therapies in repressive complex 2 (PRC2). EZH2 initiates the histone Figure 3. miRNAs-associated with several pathophysiological factors of IBD.88-92 Turk J Gastroenterol 2023; 34(5): 437-448 Törüner and Ünal. Epigenetics of Inflammatory Bowel Diseases H3 methylation at lysine 27 and has roles in various epi- the FOXP3-EZH2 protein complex suppresses immunity, genetic modifications, proliferation, adhesion, cell dif- and is referred to the therapeutic implication of stabiliz- ferentiation, and survival. The role of EZH2 is evident ing FOXP3-EZH2 interaction to recovering Treg function in regulating primary immune cells such as T cells and in IBD93 (Figure 4). B cells. EZH2 has a pathogenic role in several particular autoimmune diseases including rheumatoid arthritis, type EZH2 inhibition could repress sepsis by reducing the I diabetes, systemic lupus erythematosus, multiple scle- inflammatory response and pulmonary cell apoptosis via rosis, and IBD. EZH2 has a role in UC development. But, repression of the signal transduction pathway and STAT3 the mechanism of EZH2 in UC progression is unknown. signaling and stimulation of peroxisome proliferator-acti- Regarding the TNFα-mediated NF-κB pathway, the vated receptor-γ (PPARγ). reduction of EZH2 hypothesized the participated effects of EZH2 on NF-κB signaling in enhancing inflammation in Angiopoietin-like 4 (ANGPTL4) plays an anti-inflam- IBD patients90-92 (Figure 4). matory role in UC. ANGPTL4 decreases the inflamma- tory response by regulating the NF-κB pathway in the Dysfunction of forkhead box protein 3 (FOXP3)+ regu- DSS-induced colitis model. Additionally, ANGPTL4 could latory T cell is related to IBD. The functional and physi- be regulated by EZH2 to accompany various cell sig- cal interaction between (FOXP3)+ and EZH2 is essential nal pathways. The results of a study have demonstrated for Treg cell function. The mutation in FOXP3 cysteine that the inhibition of EZH2 by GSK 343 reduced LPS- 232 (C232) has demonstrated disrupted suppression of induced inflammatory response and cell apoptosis in IL-2 and reduced EZH2-mediated H3K27me3 on IFN-γ, the DSS-induced UC model, possibly through promoting indicative of compromised physiologic functions of Treg ANGPTL4/CREB1.94 cells. In human Treg cells, IL-6 abolishes FOXP3-EZH2 interaction, via an increase in post-translational modifi- Also, the PRC complexes play a role in the regulation of cation of FOXP3. Also, this recent study has shown that the FOXP3 target gene. A study has demonstrated that BMI1, a
