Epigenetics of Inflammatory Bowel Diseases
KEYWORDS: ibd, epigenetic, inflammatory, cells, diseases, methylation, histone, dna, patients, inflammatory bowel, bowel, studies, genes, inflammation, shown


PRC complexes play a role in the regulation of cation of FOXP3. Also, this recent study has shown that the FOXP3 target gene. A study has demonstrated that BMI1, a PRC1 family member, has a role in the modulation of a proinflammatory enhancer network in CD. Further, the knock-out of BMI1 or using BMI1 inhibitor (PTC209) in murine FOXP3+ cells results in systemic inflammation. BMI1-missing Tregs carried a TH1/TH17-like phenotype as determined with proteomic techniques.95 Dendritic cells (DCs) play a fundamental role in promoting T-cell-mediated forbearance to self-antigens and trigger inflammation to safe antigens, and deletion of DCs trig- gers the development of spontaneous fatal autoimmune events. Oppositely, DCs could be critical for the stimula- tion of inflammatory phenotypes on T cells reactive to safe antigens in the initiating of inflammatory and auto- immune diseases such as IBD.96,97 GSK-J4 is an inhibitor of the histone demethylase JMJD3/ UTX, which decreased DSS colitis. The mechanism of GSK-J4 is inhibition of H3K27me3 demethylase, and this effect is regulated by modifies on histone post-transla- tional modifications at the RALDH1 and RALDH1 (reti- naldehyde dehydrogenase) promoters in dendritic cells, which enhances RALDH activity in DCs, thus favoring the de novo retinoic acid (RA) synthesis. RA-mediated mechanisms can act in the generation of peripheral Treg- like CD4+ T cells. This triggers Treg with higher repressive Figure 4. HDAC and EZH2 inhibitors regulate inflammatory bowel diseases. function and stability and also enhanced gut-tropism, Törüner and Ünal. Epigenetics of Inflammatory Bowel Diseases Turk J Gastroenterol 2023; 34(5): 437-448 consecutively. Therefore, GSK-J4 (a KDM6A/6B inhibitor) remarked that epigenetic factors, such as miRNA dysreg- has been suggested as a promising therapeutic strategy ulation, lncRNA dysregulation, and histone modifications, for IBD.98,99 play crucial roles in the pathogenesis of IBD. The SWI/SNF complex modifies the chromatin structure Epigenetic studies will further provide biomarkers to be of the regulatory sequences of inflammatory-related used in the diagnosis and differential diagnosis of IBD. genes and makes induction of inflammation genes dur- Moreover, exploring more epigenetic pathways regarding ing the inflammation process such as the NF-κВ signaling IBD pathogenesis will help us to discover therapeutic tar- pathway. The role of SWI/SNF in the initiation of cancer gets and new drugs such as HDACi and agents targeting is well figured out and mutations in genes encoding sub- miRNAs in IBD. In general, discovering epigenetic targets units of SWI/SNF happen in 20%-25% of cancers. The could improve
