Assessing Insulin Sensitivity and Resistance in Humans
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, sensitivity, insulin sensitivity, pubmed, resistance, diabetes, model, fasting, clamp, insulin resistance, plasma, index, minimal, minimal model


ABSTRACT In this chapter we discuss a representative variety of methods currently available for estimating insulin sensitivity/resistance. These range from complex, time consuming, labor-intensive, invasive procedures to simple tests involving a single fasting blood sample. It is important to understand the physiological concepts informing each method so that relative merits and limitations of particular approaches are appropriately matched with proposed applications and data is interpreted correctly. The glucose clamp method is the reference standard for direct measurement of insulin sensitivity. Regarding simple surrogates, QUICKI and Log (HOMA) are among the best and most extensively validated. Dynamic tests are useful if information about both insulin secretion and insulin action are needed. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Insulin resistance plays a major pathophysiological role in type 2 diabetes and is tightly associated with major public health problems including obesity, hypertension, coronary artery disease, dyslipidemias, and a cluster of metabolic and cardiovascular abnormalities that define the metabolic syndrome ( 1 , 2 , 3 ). A global epidemic of obesity is driving the increased incidence and prevalence of type 2 diabetes and its cardiovascular complications ( 4 ). Insulin resistance is commonly associated with visceral adiposity, glucose intolerance, hypertension, dyslipidemia, hypercoagulable state, endothelial dysfunction, and/or elevated markers of inflammation. Therefore, the presence of these clinical abnormalities is usually characteristic of an insulin resistant state. In addition to clinical manifestations of the “Insulin Resistance Syndrome,” insulin resistance predisposes to accelerated cardiovascular disease (CVD). Therefore, it is of great importance to develop tools for quantifying insulin sensitivity/resistance in humans that may be used to appropriately investigate the epidemiology, pathophysiological mechanisms, outcomes of therapeutic interventions, and clinical course of patients with insulin resistance ( 5 ). In this chapter, we will discuss some currently used methods for assessing insulin sensitivity, their applications, merits, and limitations. INSULIN SENSITIVITY AND RESISTANCE Metabolic actions of insulin help to maintain glucose homeostasis and promote glucose utilization ( 6 ). Insulin increases glucose utilization in peripheral organs (e.g., skeletal muscle and adipose tissue) and suppresses hepatic glucose production (HGP) and adipose tissue lipolysis. In addition to these classical metabolic target tissues, insulin has many other important physiological targets. These include the brain, pancreatic β-cells, heart, and vascular endothelium that help to coordinate and couple metabolic and cardiovascular homeostasis under healthy conditions ( 6 - 9 ). Insulin has
