Assessing Insulin Sensitivity and Resistance in Humans
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, sensitivity, insulin sensitivity, pubmed, resistance, diabetes, model, fasting, clamp, insulin resistance, plasma, index, minimal, minimal model


These include the brain, pancreatic β-cells, heart, and vascular endothelium that help to coordinate and couple metabolic and cardiovascular homeostasis under healthy conditions ( 6 - 9 ). Insulin has concentration- dependent saturable actions to increase whole-body glucose disposal. The maximal effect of insulin defines “insulin responsiveness” while the insulin concentration required for a half-maximal response defines “insulin sensitivity” ( Fig. 1 ). Although, other actions of insulin on fat and amino-acid metabolism, cardiovascular, kidney, and brain function also exhibit a concentration-dependent response, the term “insulin sensitivity” typically refers to insulin’s metabolic actions to promote glucose disposal. The concept of insulin resistance was proposed as early as 1936 to describe diabetic patients requiring high doses of insulin ( 10 ). Insulin resistance is typically defined as decreased sensitivity and/or responsiveness to insulin- mediated glucose disposal and/or inhibition of HGP and adipose tissue lipolysis. Rigorous evaluation of altered sensitivity and responsiveness therefore requires a comparison of insulin dose-response curves. Figure 1. Schematic representation of concentration-response relationships between plasma insulin concentrations and insulin-mediated whole-body glucose disposal. Curve a: normal insulin sensitivity and responsiveness. Curve b: rightward shift in insulin concentration-response curve. This represents decreased insulin sensitivity (increased EC50) with normal insulin responsiveness. Curve c: Decreased insulin sensitivity (increased EC50) and reduced insulin responsiveness. Curve d: Leftward shift in the insulin concentration- response curve. This represents increased insulin sensitivity (decreased EC50) with normal insulin responsiveness. DIRECT MEASURES OF INSULIN SENSITIVITY Hyperinsulinemic Euglycemic Glucose Clamp PROCEDURE The glucose clamp technique, originally developed by Andres and DeFronzo is widely accepted as the reference standard for directly determining metabolic insulin sensitivity in humans ( 11 ). After an overnight fast, insulin is infused intravenously at a constant rate that may range from 5 - 120 mU/m2/min (dose per body surface area per minute). This constant insulin infusion results in a new steady-state insulin level that is above the fasting level (hyperinsulinemic). As a consequence, glucose disposal in skeletal muscle and adipose tissue is increased while HGP is suppressed. Under these conditions, a bedside glucose analyzer is used to frequently monitor blood glucose levels at 5 – 10 min intervals while 20% dextrose is given intravenously at a variable rate in order to “clamp” blood glucose concentrations in the normal range (euglycemic). An infusion of potassium phosphate is also given to prevent hypokalemia resulting from hyperinsulinemia and increased glucose disposal. After several hours of constant insulin infusion,
