Assessing Insulin Sensitivity and Resistance in Humans
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, sensitivity, insulin sensitivity, pubmed, resistance, diabetes, model, fasting, clamp, insulin resistance, plasma, index, minimal, minimal model


in the normal range (euglycemic). An infusion of potassium phosphate is also given to prevent hypokalemia resulting from hyperinsulinemia and increased glucose disposal. After several hours of constant insulin infusion, steady-state conditions are typically achieved for plasma insulin, blood glucose, and the glucose infusion rate (GIR). Assuming that the hyperinsulinemic state is sufficient to completely suppress hepatic glucose production, and since there is no net change in blood glucose concentrations under steady- state clamp conditions, the GIR must be equal to the glucose disposal rate (M) ( Fig. 2 ). Thus, whole body glucose disposal at a given level of hyperinsulinemia can be directly determined. M is typically normalized to body weight or fat-free mass to generate an estimate of insulin sensitivity. Alternatively, an insulin sensitivity index derived from clamp data can be defined as SIClamp = M/(G x ΔI), where M is normalized for G (steady-state blood glucose concentration) and ΔI (difference between fasting and steady-state plasma insulin concentrations) ( 12 ). Figure 2. Schematic representation of the “steady state” dynamics of glucose and insulin during an euglycemic hyperinsulinemic glucose clamp. The validity of glucose clamp measurements of insulin sensitivity depends on achieving steady-state conditions. “Steady-state” is often defined as a period greater than 30- min (at least 1 h after initiation of insulin infusion) during which the coefficient of variation for blood glucose, plasma insulin, and GIR are less than 5% ( 12 , 13 ). It is possible to use stable isotope or radio-labeled glucose tracer under clamp conditions to estimate HGP so that appropriate corrections can be made to M in the event HGP is not completely suppressed ( 14 , 15 , 16 , 17 ). An alternative approach is to use an insulin infusion rate sufficiently high to completely suppress HGP according to the insulin sensitivity/resistance of the population to be studied. M is routinely obtained at only a single insulin infusion rate and therefore comparisons between M or SIClamp among different subjects is valid only if the same insulin infusion rate is used for all subjects. When glucose tracers are used during a clamp study, the tracer is infused at constant rate throughout the study. HGP estimated during the last 20 or 30 min of the clamp is a measure of insulin- mediated suppression of HGP, an estimate of hepatic insulin sensitivity. Similarly, lipolytic rates can be assessed at baseline and hyperinsulinemia during
