Assessing Insulin Sensitivity and Resistance in Humans
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, sensitivity, insulin sensitivity, pubmed, resistance, diabetes, model, fasting, clamp, insulin resistance, plasma, index, minimal, minimal model


min of the clamp is a measure of insulin- mediated suppression of HGP, an estimate of hepatic insulin sensitivity. Similarly, lipolytic rates can be assessed at baseline and hyperinsulinemia during clamp by using isotopic tracers (e.g., palmitate). A single or multistep hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp can be used to measure adipose tissue insulin sensitivity. The linear relationship between log transformed rates of palmitate flux and plasma insulin concentrations provides an IC50 (pmol/L) for suppression of lipolysis ( 18 ). ADVANTAGES AND LIMITATIONS The principal advantage of the glucose clamp in humans is that it directly measures whole body glucose disposal at a given level of insulinemia under steady-state conditions. Conceptually, the approach is straightforward and there are a limited number of assumptions which are clearly defined. In research settings where assessing insulin sensitivity/resistance is of primary interest and feasibility is not an issue (e.g., study population < 100) it is appropriate to use the reference standard glucose clamp technique. The main limitations of the clamp approach are that it is time-consuming, labor intensive, expensive, and requires an experienced operator to manage technical difficulties. Thus, for epidemiological studies, large clinical investigations, or routine clinical applications (e.g., following changes in insulin resistance after therapeutic intervention in individual patients) application of the glucose clamp is not feasible. Nevertheless, when measured in relatively large cohorts, the M values showed a bimodal pattern, with an optimal cutoff of 5 mg/min/kg-FFM using a 40 mU/min·m 2 . However, IR was defined as a glucose disposal rate below 4.9 mg/min/kg, using a 120 mU/min·m 2 dose ( 80 , 81 ). Insulin-Suppression Test (IST) PROCEDURE The insulin-suppression test, another method that directly measures metabolic insulin sensitivity/resistance, was introduced by Shen et. al . in 1970 and subsequently modified by Harano et. al . ( 19 , 20 ). After an overnight fast, somatostatin (250 μg/h) or the somatostatin analogue octreotide (25 µg bolus, followed by 0.5 µg/min) ( 21 ) is intravenously infused to suppress endogenous secretion of insulin and glucagon. Simultaneously, insulin (25 mU/m 2 /min) and glucose (240 mg/m 2 /min) are infused into the same antecubital vein over 3 h. From the contralateral arm, blood samples for glucose and insulin determinations are taken every 30 min for 2.5 h and then at 10 min intervals from 150 - 180 min of the IST. The constant infusions of insulin and glucose determine steady-state plasma insulin (SSPI)
