Assessing Insulin Sensitivity and Resistance in Humans
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, sensitivity, insulin sensitivity, pubmed, resistance, diabetes, model, fasting, clamp, insulin resistance, plasma, index, minimal, minimal model


min for 2.5 h and then at 10 min intervals from 150 - 180 min of the IST. The constant infusions of insulin and glucose determine steady-state plasma insulin (SSPI) and glucose (SSPG) concentrations. The steady-state period is assumed to be from 150 - 180 min after initiation of the IST. SSPI concentrations are generally (but not always) similar among subjects. Therefore, the SSPG concentration will be higher in insulin resistant subjects and lower in insulin sensitive subjects. That is, SSPG values are inversely related to insulin sensitivity. The IST provides a direct measure (SSPG) of the ability of exogenous insulin to mediate disposal of an intravenous glucose load under steady-state conditions where endogenous insulin secretion is suppressed. ADVANTAGES AND LIMITATIONS The SSPG is a highly reproducible direct measure of metabolic actions of insulin that is less labor-intensive and less technically demanding than the glucose clamp. Indeed, since there are no variable infusions with the IST, steady-state conditions are more easily achieved with the IST than with the glucose clamp. Estimates of insulin sensitivity determined by SSPG correlate well with reference standard glucose clamp estimates in normal subjects (r = 0.93) and in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (r = 0.91). ( 22 , 23 ). Indeed, SSPG has positive predictive power for cardiovascular disease events and onset of type 2 diabetes ( 24 , 25 ). In research settings where assessing insulin sensitivity/resistance is of primary interest and feasibility is not an issue, it is appropriate to use the IST. Moreover, the IST can be used for larger populations that may pose difficulties for application of the glucose clamp ( 26 ). Many of the limitations of the IST are similar to those described above for the glucose clamp (with the exception that the IST is less technically demanding). Thus, it is impractical to apply the IST in large epidemiological studies or in the clinical care setting. SSPG under ideal conditions determines primarily skeletal muscle insulin sensitivity and is not designed to reflect hepatic insulin sensitivity. INDIRECT MEASURES OF INSULIN SENSITIVITY Minimal Model Analysis of Frequently Sampled Intravenous Glucose Tolerance Test (FSIVGTT) PROCEDURE The minimal model, developed by Bergman, Cobelli, and colleagues in 1979, provides an indirect measure of metabolic insulin sensitivity/resistance based on glucose and insulin data obtained during an FSIVGTT ( 27 ). After an overnight fast, an intravenous bolus of glucose (0.3 g/kg body weight)
