Assessing Insulin Sensitivity and Resistance in Humans
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, sensitivity, insulin sensitivity, pubmed, resistance, diabetes, model, fasting, clamp, insulin resistance, plasma, index, minimal, minimal model


of metabolic insulin sensitivity/resistance based on glucose and insulin data obtained during an FSIVGTT ( 27 ). After an overnight fast, an intravenous bolus of glucose (0.3 g/kg body weight) is infused over 2 min starting at time 0. Currently, a modified FSIVGTT is used where exogenous insulin (4 mU/kg/min) is also infused over 5 min beginning 20 min after the intravenous glucose bolus ( 28 , 29 , 30 ). Some studies use tolbutamide instead of insulin in the modified FSIVGTT to stimulate endogenous insulin secretion ( 15 , 29 , 31 , 32 , 27 ). Blood samples are taken for plasma glucose and insulin measurements at -10, -1, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 20, 22, 23, 24, 25, 27, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 120, 160, and 180 min. These data are then subjected to minimal model analysis using the computer program MINMOD to generate an index of insulin sensitivity (S I ). The minimal model is defined by two coupled differential equations with four model parameters ( Fig. 3 ). The first equation describes plasma glucose dynamics in a single compartment. The second equation describes insulin dynamics in a “remote compartment”. The structure of the minimal model allows MINMOD to uniquely identify model parameters that determine a best fit to glucose disappearance during the modified FSIVGTT. SI is calculated from two of these model parameters and is defined as fractional glucose disappearance per insulin concentration unit. In addition to SI, other minimal model parameters may be used to estimate a “glucose effectiveness” index (SG). SG is defined as the ability of glucose per se to promote its own disposal and inhibit HGP in the absence of an incremental insulin effect (i.e., when insulin is at basal or constant concentrations). Recently the minimal model has been used to assess free fatty acid (FFA) insulin sensitivity. Using a one compartment nonlinear model of FFA kinetics during FSIVGTT, showed that the FFA insulin sensitivity parameter correlated well with minimal model indices ( 33 ). Furthermore, this model also showed that glucose modulates disposal of FFAs. Figure 3. Schematic equations, and parameters for the minimal model of glucose metabolism. Differential equations describing glucose dynamics (G(t)) in a monocompartmental “glucose space” and insulin dynamics in a “remote compartment” (X(t)) are shown at the top. Glucose leaves or enters its space at
