Assessing Insulin Sensitivity and Resistance in Humans
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, sensitivity, insulin sensitivity, pubmed, resistance, diabetes, model, fasting, clamp, insulin resistance, plasma, index, minimal, minimal model


equations describing glucose dynamics (G(t)) in a monocompartmental “glucose space” and insulin dynamics in a “remote compartment” (X(t)) are shown at the top. Glucose leaves or enters its space at a rate proportional to the difference between plasma glucose level, G(t) and the basal fasting level, Gb. In addition, glucose also disappears from its compartment at a rate proportional to insulin levels in the “remote” compartment (X(t)). In this model, t = time; G(t) = plasma glucose at time t; I(t) = plasma insulin concentration at time t; X(t) = insulin concentration in “remote” compartment at time t; Gb = basal plasma concentration; Ib = basal plasma insulin concentration; G(0) = G0 (assuming instantaneous mixing of the IV glucose load); p1, p2, p3, and G0 = unknown parameters in the model that are uniquely identifiable from FSIVGTT; glucose effectiveness, SG = p1; and insulin sensitivity, SI = p3/p2. ADVANTAGES AND LIMITATIONS Minimal model analysis of the modified FSIVGTT is easier than the glucose clamp method because it is slightly less labor intensive, steady-state conditions are not required, and there are no intravenous infusions that require constant adjustment. Unlike the glucose clamp or IST, information about insulin sensitivity, glucose effectiveness, and β-cell function can be derived from a single dynamic test. The minimal model generates excellent predictions of glucose disappearance during the FSIVGTT. SI is a strong predictor of the development of diabetes in a prospective study of children of diabetic parents ( 34 ). Moreover, the insulin-modified FSIVGT may be used in relatively large- scale population studies ( 35 ). Therefore, in research settings where assessing insulin sensitivity along with glucose effectiveness and β-cell function is of interest, minimal model analysis of the insulin-modified FSIVGTT may be appropriate. The minimal model approach is simpler than direct methods for determining insulin sensitivity. Nevertheless, it still involves intravenous infusions with multiple blood sampling over a 3 h period that is nearly as labor intensive as the glucose clamp or IST. In addition, many limitations of minimal model analysis stem from the fact that the model oversimplifies the physiology of glucose homeostasis and is discussed in detail elsewhere ( 5 ). Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT) The oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) is a simple test widely used in clinical practice to diagnose glucose intolerance and type 2 diabetes ( 36 ). After overnight fast, blood samples for determinations of glucose and insulin
