Assessing Insulin Sensitivity and Resistance in Humans
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, sensitivity, insulin sensitivity, pubmed, resistance, diabetes, model, fasting, clamp, insulin resistance, plasma, index, minimal, minimal model


a simple test widely used in clinical practice to diagnose glucose intolerance and type 2 diabetes ( 36 ). After overnight fast, blood samples for determinations of glucose and insulin concentrations are taken at 0, 30, 60, and 120 min following a standard 75g oral glucose load. Oral glucose tolerance reflects the efficiency of the body to dispose of glucose after an oral glucose load or meal. The OGTT mimics the glucose and insulin dynamics of physiological conditions more closely than conditions of the glucose clamp, IST, or FSIVGTT. However, it is important to recognize that glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity are not equivalent concepts. In addition to metabolic actions of insulin, insulin secretion, incretin effects, and other factors contribute importantly to glucose tolerance. Thus, the OGTT and meal tolerance tests provide useful information about glucose tolerance but not insulin sensitivity/resistance per se . Intravenous and Oral Tracer Studies The use of tracers for estimation of insulin sensitivity was first introduced in 1986 to overcome the shortcomings of FSIVGTT ( 37 ) The minimal model method does not allow segregation of glucose production from liver from exogenously administered glucose during calculations of insulin sensitivity and thus induces error in the insulin sensitivity calculations. Labeled intravenous glucose can be differentiated from endogenously produced glucose and thus use of labeled glucose during IVGTT provides more precise and accurate measurements ( 38 , 39 ) Similarly, labeled glucose has been used in oral glucose tolerance test and insulin sensitivity has been calculated by minimal model technique similar to FSIVGTT( 40 ). There is a strong correlation of insulin sensitivity calculated from labeled oral minimal model with insulin sensitivity calculated from gold standard euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp, r=0.7, p<0.001 ( 41 ). There are dual tracer and triple tracer methods as well to estimate the hepatic/endogenous glucose production and discussion of these methods is beyond the scope of this review ( 42 ). Basal hepatic insulin resistance index can then be estimated as the product of HGP rate and the fasting plasma insulin concentration. Use of tracer definitely allows for improvement over the FSIVGTT. Use of labeled oral glucose allows for more precise measurements of insulin sensitivity and glucose disposal from a simple OGTT and this can be a useful tool in large studies. The triple tracer method is cumbersome and cannot be employed in large studies. SIMPLE SURROGATE INDEXES FOR INSULIN SENSITIVITY/RESISTANCE Surrogates Derived
