Assessing Insulin Sensitivity and Resistance in Humans
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, sensitivity, insulin sensitivity, pubmed, resistance, diabetes, model, fasting, clamp, insulin resistance, plasma, index, minimal, minimal model


this can be a useful tool in large studies. The triple tracer method is cumbersome and cannot be employed in large studies. SIMPLE SURROGATE INDEXES FOR INSULIN SENSITIVITY/RESISTANCE Surrogates Derived from Fasting Steady-state Conditions PROCEDURE After an overnight fast, a single blood sample is taken for determination of blood glucose and plasma insulin. In healthy humans, the fasting condition represents a basal steady-state where glucose is homeostatically maintained in the normal range such that insulin levels are not significantly changing and HGP is constant. That is, basal insulin secretion by pancreatic β cells determines a relatively constant level of insulinemia that will be lower or higher in accordance with insulin sensitivity/resistance such that HGP matches whole body glucose disposal under fasting conditions. Surrogate indexes based on fasting glucose and insulin concentrations reflect primarily hepatic insulin sensitivity/resistance. However, under most conditions, hepatic and skeletal muscle insulin sensitivity/resistance are proportional to each other. In the diabetic state with fasting hyperglycemia, fasting insulin levels are inappropriately low and insufficient to maintain euglycemia. Therefore, definitions of the more useful surrogate indexes take these considerations into account. Due to lack of a standardized insulin assay, it is not possible to use surrogate indexes to define universal cutoff points for insulin resistance. ADVANTAGES AND LIMITATIONS Simple surrogate indexes of insulin sensitivity/resistance are inexpensive quantitative tools that can be easily applied in almost every setting including epidemiological studies, large clinical trials, clinical research investigations, and clinical practice. If a direct measure of insulin sensitivity is not required, not feasible to obtain, or if insulin sensitivity is of secondary interest, it may be appropriate to use a surrogate index. The relative merits and limitations of individual surrogate indexes are discussed below. The Homeostasis Model Assessment (HOMA) HOMA, developed in 1985, is a model of interactions between glucose and insulin dynamics that is then used to predict fasting steady-state glucose and insulin concentrations for a wide range of possible combinations of insulin resistance and β-cell function ( 43 ). The model assumes a feedback loop between the liver and β-cell ( 43 , 44 , 45 ); glucose concentrations are regulated by insulin- dependent HGP while insulin levels depend on the pancreatic β-cell response to glucose concentrations. Thus, deficient β-cell function reflects a diminished response to glucose-stimulated insulin secretion. Likewise, insulin resistance is reflected by diminished suppressive effect of insulin on HGP. HOMA model describes this glucose-insulin homeostasis by
