Assessing Insulin Sensitivity and Resistance in Humans
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, sensitivity, insulin sensitivity, pubmed, resistance, diabetes, model, fasting, clamp, insulin resistance, plasma, index, minimal, minimal model


β-cell function reflects a diminished response to glucose-stimulated insulin secretion. Likewise, insulin resistance is reflected by diminished suppressive effect of insulin on HGP. HOMA model describes this glucose-insulin homeostasis by a set of empirically derived non-linear equations. The model predicts fasting steady- state levels of plasma glucose and insulin for any given combination of pancreatic β-cell function and insulin sensitivity. Computer simulations have been used to generate a grid from which mathematical transformations of fasting glucose and insulin β-cell function (HOMA %B) from steady-state conditions. An important caveat for HOMA is that it imputes dynamic β-cell function (i.e., glucose-stimulated insulin secretion) from fasting steady- state data. In the absence of dynamic data, it is difficult, if not impossible, to determine the true dynamic function of β-cell insulin secretion. In practical terms, most studies using HOMA employ an approximation described by a simple equation to determine a surrogate index of insulin resistance. This is defined by the product of the fasting glucose and fasting insulin divided by a constant. Thus, HOMA-IR = fasting insulin (μU/ml) × fasting glucose (mmol/l) / 22.5. The constant is a normalizing factor, the product of fasting plasma insulin of 5 µU/mL and plasma glucose of 4.5 mmol/L obtained from an “ideal” and “normal” individual. Therefore, for an individual with normal insulin sensitivity, HOMA-IR = 1. It is important to note that over wide ranges of insulin sensitivity/resistance Log (HOMA-IR), (which normalizes the skewed distribution of fasting insulin values) determines a much stronger linear correlation with glucose clamp estimates of insulin sensitivity ( 12 ). HOMA or Log (HOMA) is extensively used in large epidemiological studies, prospective clinical trials, and clinical research studies ( 45 , 46 , 47 ). In research settings where assessing insulin sensitivity/resistance is of secondary interest or feasibility issues preclude the use of direct measures by glucose clamp, it may be appropriate to use Log (HOMA-IR). However, as discussed below, other surrogate indexes have certain advantages over HOMA or Log (HOMA) in some circumstances. Quantitative Insulin Sensitivity Check Index (QUICKI) QUICKI is an empirically-derived mathematical transformation of fasting blood glucose and plasma insulin concentrations that provides a reliable, reproducible, and accurate index of insulin sensitivity with excellent positive predictive power ( 12 , 48 , 13 , 49 , 50 ). Since fasting insulin levels have a non-normal skewed distribution, log transformation improves its linear correlation with SIclamp. However, as with 1/(fasting
