Assessing Insulin Sensitivity and Resistance in Humans
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, sensitivity, insulin sensitivity, pubmed, resistance, diabetes, model, fasting, clamp, insulin resistance, plasma, index, minimal, minimal model


, 48 , 13 , 49 , 50 ). Since fasting insulin levels have a non-normal skewed distribution, log transformation improves its linear correlation with SIclamp. However, as with 1/(fasting insulin) and the G/I ratio, this correlation is not maintained in diabetic subjects with fasting hyperglycemia and impaired β-cell function that is insufficient to maintain euglycemia. To accommodate these clinically important circumstances where fasting glucose is inappropriately high and insulin is inappropriately low, addition of log (fasting glucose) to log (fasting insulin) provides a reasonable correction such that the linear correlation with SIClamp is maintained in both diabetic and non-diabetic subjects. The reciprocal of this sum results in further transformation of the data generating an insulin sensitivity index that has a positive correlation with SIclamp. Thus, QUICKI = 1/Log (Fasting Insulin, µU/ml) + Log (Fasting Glucose, mg/dl). Over a wide range of insulin sensitivity/resistance, QUICKI has a substantially better linear correlation with SIclamp (r ≈ 0.8 – 0.9) than SI derived from the minimal model or HOMA-IR ( 12 , 48 , 49 ). Log (HOMA) is roughly comparable to QUICKI in this regard. Multiple independent studies find excellent linear correlations between QUICKI and glucose clamp estimates (either GIR or SIClamp) in healthy subjects, obesity, diabetes, hypertension, and many other insulin- resistant states ( 49 , 51 , 52 , 53 , 54 , 55 , 56 ). QUICKI is among the most thoroughly evaluated and validated surrogate index for insulin sensitivity. As a simple, useful, inexpensive, and minimally invasive surrogate for glucose clamp-derived measures of insulin sensitivity, QUICKI is appropriate and effective for use in large epidemiological or clinical research studies, to follow changes after therapeutic interventions, and for use in studies where evaluation of insulin sensitivity is not of primary interest. Adipose Tissue Insulin Resistance Index (Adipo-IR) Adipo-IR is a measure similar to HOMA-IR in that it is obtained from a fasting level of FFA and insulin (product of FFA and insulin levels). Recent studies have shown that Adipo-IR correlates well with the gold standard measure of adipose tissue insulin sensitivity derived from one-step hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp technique using a palmitate tracer ( 57 ). Age and physical fitness were however shown to affect the predictive values. Thus, Adipo-IR may be suitable for larger population studies, however the multistep pancreatic clamp technique is probably needed for mechanistic studies of adipose tissue insulin action. Surrogates Derived from Dynamic Tests PROCEDURE
