Assessing Insulin Sensitivity and Resistance in Humans
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, sensitivity, insulin sensitivity, pubmed, resistance, diabetes, model, fasting, clamp, insulin resistance, plasma, index, minimal, minimal model


may be suitable for larger population studies, however the multistep pancreatic clamp technique is probably needed for mechanistic studies of adipose tissue insulin action. Surrogates Derived from Dynamic Tests PROCEDURE Surrogate indexes of insulin sensitivity that use information derived from dynamic tests include OGTT, meal tolerance tests, and IVGTT. Procedures for these tests have been described in a previous section. Specific indexes including Matsuda index ( 58 ), Stumvoll index ( 59 ), Avignon index ( 60 ), oral glucose insulin sensitivity index (OGSI) ( 61 ), Gutt index ( 62 ), and Belfiore index ( 63 ) use particular sampling protocols during the OGTT or the meal. In addition, minimal model approaches have been used to model plasma glucose and insulin dynamics during an OGTT or a meal to determine insulin sensitivity/resistance ( 64 ). Glucose disposal of an oral glucose load or a meal is mediated by a complex dynamic process that includes gut absorption, glucose effectiveness, neurohormonal actions, incretin actions, insulin secretion, and metabolic actions of insulin that primarily determine the balance between peripheral glucose utilization and HGP. Surrogate indexes that depend on dynamic testing take into account both fasting steady-state and dynamic post-glucose load plasma glucose and insulin levels. After an oral glucose challenge, the HGP is maximally suppressed for approximately 60 min and remains suppressed at a constant level for the subsequent 60–120 min time period. Therefore, glucose uptake by peripheral tissues (e.g., muscle and adipose tissue) primarily determines the rate of decrease in plasma glucose concentration from its peak value to its nadir during an OGTT. Based on this observation, surrogate indices of hepatic and muscle insulin sensitivity/ resistance from an OGTT has been widely used ( 65 ). Recent studies comparing the OGTT- derived, tissue-specific surrogate indices hepatic insulin resistance index (HIRI) and muscle insulin sensitivity index (MISI) with clamp measurements showed that surrogate indices derived from an OGTT are accurate in predicting insulin sensitivity but are not tissue-specific ( 66 ). Studies using oral tracers in OGTT, with measurement of insulin sensitivity from OGTT and then comparing these to clamp measurements, would be crucial to ascertain the validity these measures. Indeed, recent studies have shown that it is possible to measure hepatic insulin sensitivity in healthy volunteers and in prediabetes with the use of single tracer ( 67 ). ADVANTAGES AND LIMITATIONS Many surrogate measures derived from dynamic data correlate reasonably well
