Assessing Insulin Sensitivity and Resistance in Humans
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, sensitivity, insulin sensitivity, pubmed, resistance, diabetes, model, fasting, clamp, insulin resistance, plasma, index, minimal, minimal model


insulin sensitivity in healthy volunteers and in prediabetes with the use of single tracer ( 67 ). ADVANTAGES AND LIMITATIONS Many surrogate measures derived from dynamic data correlate reasonably well with glucose clamp estimates of insulin sensitivity ( 58 , 61 , 62 ). Estimates of insulin sensitivity derived from OGTT predict the development of type 2 diabetes in epidemiologic studies ( 50 , 68 , 65 ). The advantage of surrogates based on dynamic testing is that information about insulin secretion can be obtained at the same time as information about insulin action. However, if one is only interested in estimating insulin sensitivity/resistance, fasting surrogates may be preferable to dynamic surrogates because they are simpler to obtain. The oral route of glucose delivery is more physiological than intravenous glucose infusion. However, poor reproducibility of the OGTT and meal tolerance test due to variable glucose absorption, splanchnic glucose uptake, and additional incretin effects need to be considered. Thus, distinguishing direct metabolic actions of insulin following oral ingestion of glucose or a mixed meal is more problematic than after FSIVGTT. In addition, as with many other measures of insulin sensitivity, surrogates derived from dynamic testing generally incorporate both peripheral and hepatic insulin sensitivity. Although OGTT involves considerably less work than FSIVGTT, dynamic testing in general requires more effort and cost than fasting blood sampling. ETHNIC DIFFERENCES Hispanics, African Americans, and South Asians are highly prone to develop diabetes. A meta-analysis showed that non-diabetic Africans have lower insulin sensitivity and higher insulin response after an intravenous glucose load compared to Caucasians and East Asians ( 69 ). In a study that compared euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp derived glucose disposal rates (GDR) with HOMA-IR, QUICKI, and OGTT-derived indices, fasting insulin levels and HOMA-IR did not correlate with GDR whereas Matsuda index derived from OGTT significantly correlated with GDR in African American men ( 70 ). Similarly, in another study in Afro-Caribbean adults, HOMA-IR did not correlate with insulin sensitivity calculated from FSIVGTT and M-value calculated from hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp ( 71 ). Likewise, IR predictive ability of QUICKI and HOMA-IR was limited in Asian-Indian men ( 72 ). Recent studies highlight that minimal model may underestimate insulin sensitivity between groups when acute insulin response (AIR) is higher in one group ( 73 ). African Americans have reduced insulin clearance and higher AIR than Whites, suggesting that the minimal model may underestimate insulin sensitivity in
