Assessing Insulin Sensitivity and Resistance in Humans
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, sensitivity, insulin sensitivity, pubmed, resistance, diabetes, model, fasting, clamp, insulin resistance, plasma, index, minimal, minimal model


(AIR) is higher in one group ( 73 ). African Americans have reduced insulin clearance and higher AIR than Whites, suggesting that the minimal model may underestimate insulin sensitivity in African Americans ( 73 ). These studies suggest that at least in some ethnic groups, QUICKI and HOMA-IR may only be useful as secondary outcome measurements in assessing insulin sensitivity/resistance and studies inferring lower insulin sensitivity in non- diabetic African Americans based on FSIVGTT and minimal modeling should be interpreted cautiously. METABOLOMICS Metabolomics is an interrogation and quantification of small-molecule metabolites in body fluids and tissues. It aims at identifying and quantifying small molecules in the sample by either using mass spectrometry (MS) or nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. The details of the methodology and its application in diabetes research are beyond the scope of this chapter. In this chapter, we will focus on new markers of insulin resistance that have been discovered using this approach. Using a non- targeted approach, Gall et al. metabolically profiled fasting plasma samples from 399 non-diabetic, clinically healthy subjects ( 74 ). Insulin sensitivity was measured using euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamps. Individuals in the bottom tertile of the cohort were designated as insulin- resistant. Among the 485 candidate biomarkers identified, plasma α-hydroxybutyrate levels were inversely related to insulin sensitivity and this association was independent of age, sex and BMI. Other metabolites such as linoleoyl- glycerophosphocholine (L-GPC), glycine, and creatine were also highly correlated with insulin sensitivity. Using 26 metabolites from this study, the group went on to develop a model called Quantose algorithm to predict insulin resistance. Fasting insulin, α-hydroxybutyrate, L- GPC and oleate levels were included in this model. Quantose IR as a fasting surrogate of insulin sensitivity was superior to other simple surrogate measures and was able to predict the progression from normal glucose tolerance to impaired glucose tolerance ( 75 ). Branched chain amino acids (BCAAs) were found to significantly increase in obese compared to lean subjects and a BCAA based index correlated with HOMA ( 76 ). The elevation of BCAA in subjects with impaired fasting glucose and diabetes has been confirmed in subsequent studies ( 77 ). Lipoprotein insulin resistance score (LPIR) is a novel metabolomic biomarker based on nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) quantification of lipoprotein levels and sizes. This index has been shown to predict future type 2 diabetes mellitus is some cohorts ( 78 ). LPIR is derived
