Assessing Insulin Sensitivity and Resistance in Humans
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, sensitivity, insulin sensitivity, pubmed, resistance, diabetes, model, fasting, clamp, insulin resistance, plasma, index, minimal, minimal model


magnetic resonance (NMR) quantification of lipoprotein levels and sizes. This index has been shown to predict future type 2 diabetes mellitus is some cohorts ( 78 ). LPIR is derived from the weighted score of six lipoproteins (VLDL, LDL, and HDL sizes and concentrations) that are more strongly related to IR than each of its individual subclasses ( 79 ). A risk score of between 0-100 is estimated, with a score of 100 denoting being most insulin resistant. These metabolomic studies are promising since they can measure hundreds of metabolites in a very small sample. However, the pricing, technology, and access, precludes its use clinically. Further studies using this approach are necessary in larger more heterogeneous cohorts to replicate and validate surrogate insulin resistance markers derived through metabolomics. Table 1. Methods for Assessing Insulin Sensitivity and Resistance in Humans View in own window Method Measure of Insulin sensitivity Direct Measures Hyperinsulinemic Euglycemic Glucose Clamp Average glucose infusion rate (GIR) = glucose disposal rate (M). SI Clamp = M/(G x ΔI), where M is normalized for G (steady-state blood glucose concentration) and ΔI (difference between fasting and steady-state plasma insulin concentrations) Insulin-suppression Test (IST) Steady-state plasma glucose (SSPG) concentrations during constant infusions of insulin and glucose with suppressed endogenous insulin secretion Indirect Measures Minimal Model Analysis of Frequently Sampled Intravenous Glucose Tolerance Test (FSIVGTT) Minimal model uniquely identifies model parameters that determine a best fit to glucose disappearance during the modified FSIVGTT. SI : fractional glucose disappearance per insulin concentration unit; SG (glucose effectiveness): ability of glucose per se to promote its own disposal and inhibit HGP in the absence of an incremental insulin effect (i.e., when insulin is at basal levels). Simple Surrogate Indexes Surrogates Derived from Fasting Steady-state Conditions The Homeostasis Model Assessment (HOMA) HOMA-IR = [(Fasting Insulin (µU/mL)) X (Fasting Glucose (mmol/L))]/22.5 Quantitative Insulin Sensitivity Check Index (QUICKI) QUICKI = 1/[Log (Fasting Insulin, µU/ml) + Log (Fasting Glucose, mg/dl)] Surrogates Derived from Dynamic Tests (OGTT) Matsuda Index ISI(Matsuda) = 10000/√[(Gfasting (mg/dl) x Ifasting (µU/ml) x (Gmean x Imean)] Gutt Index - ISI (0, 120) (mg.l2.mmol-1.mIU-1.min-1) ISI (0, 120) = 75000 + (G0-G120)(mg/l) x 0.19 x BW / 120 x Gmean (0, 120min) (mmol/l) x Log [Imean (0, 120min)](mU/l) Gmean, mean plasma glucose concentration during OGTT; Go, plasma glucose concentration during fasting; G120, plasma glucose concentration at 120 min; Gmean, mean plasma glucose concentration during OGTT; Imean, mean insulin
