Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


destructive treatment for thyrotoxicosis 0.6/1000 survivors/year; similar figures were obtained in those who had deceased during follow-up. The hazard rate (the probability to develop hypothyroidism) increased with age; the mean age at diagnosis of hypothyroidism in women was 60 years. Studies from other countries like the USA 10,11 , Japan 12 and Sweden 13 report essentially similar data. Of particular interest are risk factors for development of hypothyroidism. In women survivors of the Whickham Survey, the risk of developing overt hypothyroidism was 4.3% per year if both raised serum TSH and thyroid antibodies were present initially, 2.6% per year if raised serum TSH was present alone, and 2.1% per year if thyroid antibodies were present alone 9 . At the time of follow-up twenty years later, hypothyroidism had developed in these three groups in 55%, 33% and 27% respectively, but only in 4% if initial serum TSH was normal and thyroid antibodies were absent. The probability of developing hypothyroidism already increases at a rise in serum TSH above 2 mU/L as shown in Figure 9-2 , in thyroid antibody positive as well as in thyroid antibody negative women; it also increases with higher titres of thyroid microsomal antibodies 9 , 15 . These data are confirmed by two other more recent large population-based longitudinal surveys with a mean follow-up of 11-13 years. A figure almost identical to figure 9.2 was obtained in an Austalian study, in which the odds of hypothyroidism increased at TSH >2.5 mU/L, being always higher in the presence of TPO antibodies 16 . Increasing TSH values within the reference range of 0.2-4.5 mU/L gradually increased the risk of future hypothyroidism in the Norwegian HUNT study: odds ratio’s were significantly higher at baseline TSH >1.5 mU/L in women and at TSH > 2.0 in men 17 . Figure 9-2 Logit probability (log odds) for the development of hypothyroidism as a function of TSH values at first survey during a 20-year follow-up of 912 women in the Whickham Survey. (Reproduced with permission)(9). 9.3 CAUSES OF HYPOTHYROIDISM A variety of functional or structural disorders may lead to hypothyroidism, the severity of which depends on the degree and duration of thyroid hormone deprivation. A classification according to etiology appears in Table 9-3 . The two principal categories are primary (or thyroprivic) hypothyroidism caused by an inherent inability of the thyroid gland to supply a sufficient amount of the hormone, and
