Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


Table 9-3 . The two principal categories are primary (or thyroprivic) hypothyroidism caused by an inherent inability of the thyroid gland to supply a sufficient amount of the hormone, and central (or trophoprivic) hypothyroidism due to inadequate stimulation of an intrinsically normal thyroid gland resulting from a defect at the level of the pituitary (secondary hypothyroidism) or the hypothalamus (tertiary hypothyroidism). In a third (uncommon) form of hypothyroidism, regulation and function of thyroid gland are intact. Instead, manifestations of hormone deprivation arise from a disorder in the target tissues that reduces their responsiveness to the hormone (peripheral tissue resistance to thyroid hormone) or that inactivates the hormone (in massive infantile hemangiomas). The most common cause of hypothyroidism is destruction of the thyroid gland by disease or as a consequence of vigorous ablative therapies to control thyrotoxicosis. Primary hypothyroidism may also result from inefficient hormone synthesis caused by inherited biosynthetic defects (see Ch. 16 ), a deficient supply of iodine (see Ch. 20 ), or inhibition of hormonogenesis by various drugs and chemicals (see Ch. 5 ). In such instances, hypothyroidism is typically associated with thyroid gland enlargement (goitrous hypothyroidism). Table 9-3 Causes of hypothyroidism View in own window 1. Central (hypothalamic/pituitary) hypothyroidism Loss of functional tissue tumors (pituitary adenoma, craniopharyngioma, meningioma, dysgerminoma, glioma, metastases) trauma (surgery, irradiation, head injury) vascular (ischemic necrosis, hemorrhage, stalk interrruption, aneurysm of internal carotid artery) infections (abcess, tuberculosis, syphilis, toxoplasmosis) infiltrative (sarcoidosis, histiocytosis, hemochromatosis) chronic lymphocytic hypophysitis congenital (pituitary hypoplasia, septooptic dysplasia, basal encephalocele) Functional defects in TSH biosynthesis and release mutations in genes encoding for TRH receptor, TSHß, pituitary transcription factors (Pit-1, PROP1, LHX3, LHX4, HESX1), or LEPr, IGSF1 drugs: dopamine; glucocorticoids; bexarotene; L-T4 withdrawal 2. Primary (thyroidal) hypothyroidism Loss of functional thyroid tissue chronic autoimmune thyroiditis reversible autoimmune hypothyroidism (silent and postpartum thyroiditis, cytokine-induced thyroiditis). surgery and irradiation (131I or external irradiation) infiltrative and infectious diseases, subacute thyroiditis thyroid dysgenesis Functional defects in thyroid hormone biosynthesis and release congenital defects in thyroid hormone biosynthesis iodine deficiency and iodine excess drugs: antithyroid agents, lithium, natural and synthetic goitrogenic chemicals, tyrosine kinase inhibitors 3. "Peripheral" (extrathyroidal) hypothyroidism Consumptive hypothyroidism (massive infantile hemangioma) Mutations in genes encoding for MCT8, SECISBP2, TRα or TR β (thyroid hormone resistance) 9.3.1. CENTRAL HYPOTHYROIDISM Hypothalamic disorders cause reduced TSH secretion by impairing the production or transport of TRH to the pituitary gland. Hypothyroidism may occur because the pituitary secretes TSH
