Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


resistance) 9.3.1. CENTRAL HYPOTHYROIDISM Hypothalamic disorders cause reduced TSH secretion by impairing the production or transport of TRH to the pituitary gland. Hypothyroidism may occur because the pituitary secretes TSH in insufficient quantities, or secretes TSH with an abnormal glycosylation pattern which reduces the biologic activity of TSH 1,2,3 . Treatment with oral TRH restores the biologic activity of TSH, suggesting that deficient hypothalamic TRH release induces both quantitative and qualitative abnormalities of TSH secretion. TSH molecules with reduced biologic activity may retain their immunologic reactivity in TSH immunoassays, explaining the sometimes observed slightly increased values of serum TSH (up to 10 mU/l) in central hypothyroidism 18, 23 . The term central hypothyroidism is preferred because it is not always possible to distinguish between hypothalamic and pituitary causes. Central hypothyroidism is also associated with a decreased nocturnal TSH surge (due to loss of the nocturnal increase in TSH pulse amplitude under preservation of the nighttime increase in TSH pulse frequency), which further hampers maintenance of a normal thyroid function 4,5 . Central hypothyroidism is a relatively rare condition occurring about equally in both sexes. Congenital cases of central hypothyroidism are due to structural lesions like pituitary hypoplasia, midline defects and Rathke's pouch cysts, or to functional defects in TSH biosynthesis and release like loss-of-function' mutations in genes encoding for the TRH receptor 6 , the TSH-beta subunit 7,8 , pituitary-specific transcription factors ( POU1F1 , PROP1, LHX3, LHX4 or HESX1), and LEPR or IGSF1 9 . Familial hypothyroidism due to TSHβ gene mutations follows an autosomal mode of inheritance. The β-subunit (118 aa) heterodimerizes noncovalently with the α-subunit through a segment called the seat-belt (aa 88-105). The described mutations of the TSHβ gene hamper dimerization with the α-subunit and thereby the correct secretion of the mature TSH heterodimer: Q42X and Q29X introduce a premature stop codon resulting in a truncated TSHβ subunit, G29R is a nonsense mutation preventing dimer formation, and C105V, 114X is a frameshift mutation causing disruption of one of the two disulfide bridges stabilizing the seat belt region 7,8,19,20 . Plasma TSH levels are variable, the TSH response to TRH is impaired but PRL secretion is normal, and plasma glycoprotein hormone α-subunits are high 19 . Mutations in pituitary transcription factors like POU1F1 and PROP1 are associated with deficiencies of TSH, GH and PRL 9 . Loss-of-function mutations in the membrane glycoprotein IGSF1 cause an X-linked syndrome
