Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


in pituitary transcription factors like POU1F1 and PROP1 are associated with deficiencies of TSH, GH and PRL 9 . Loss-of-function mutations in the membrane glycoprotein IGSF1 cause an X-linked syndrome characterized by central hypothyroidism, hypoprolactinemia, delayed puberty, macroorchidism and increased body weight; it is hypothesized that central hypothyroidism in these cases is secondary to an associated impairment in pituitary TRH signalling 32,33 . Cases of central hypothyroidism in childhood are mostly caused by craniopharyngioma (TSH deficiency in 53%) or cranial irradiation for brain tumors like dysgerminoma (TSH deficiency in 6%) or hematological malignancies 24 . Prophylactic cranial irradiation of the central nervous system in children with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia did not have an adverse effect on thyroid function within a median follow-up time of 8 years 21 . Central hypothyroidism in adults is most frequently due to pituitary macroadenomas and pituitary surgery or irradiation 22 . The occurrence of TSH deficiency occurs usually after loss of GH and gonadotropin secretion. Return to euthyroidism is sometimes observed after selective adenomectomy 10 . Radiotherapy of brain tumors or pituitary adenomas is followed by hypothyroidism in up to 65%; the onset of hypothyroidism may be seen many years after radiotherapy 11,12 . Less common causes of adult central hypothyroidism are head injury 13, 25 , ischemic necrosis due to postpartum hemorrhage (Sheehan's syndrome), pituitary apoplexy, infiltrative diseases, and lymphocytic hypophysitis 14 . Lymphocytic hypophysitis seems to be an autoimmune disease; it occurs predominantly in women, especially during and after pregnancy, and the clinical picture is characterized by a pituitary mass and hypopituitarism 26 . A systematic review of articles published between 2000 and 2007 reported frequencies of anterior hypopituitarism in adults in the chronic phase after traumatic brain injury or subarachnoid hemorrhage (27): TSH deficiency was observed in 5.9% (95% CI 1.3-10.5) after subarachnoid hemmorrhage, and in 4.1% (95% CI 2.9-5.7) after traumatic brain injury. In prospective studies after traumatic brain injury TSH deficiency was observed in 3.9%, 6.8%, 2.1% and 4.2% at the acute phase and after 3, 6 and 12 months respectively (27). Dopamine infusion inhibits the release of TSH, which may decrease T4 production rate by 56% 15 . Supraphysiological amounts of endogenous or exogenous glucocorticoids also dampen the release of TSH, but give seldom rise to decreased serum T4 values. The same is true for treatment with long-acting somatostatin analogs. A transient decrease of TSH secretion can be observed
