Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


of TSH, but give seldom rise to decreased serum T4 values. The same is true for treatment with long-acting somatostatin analogs. A transient decrease of TSH secretion can be observed after withdrawal of TSH-suppressive doses of L-thyroxine, which may last up to 6 weeks 16 . A new and novel cause of iatrogenic central hypothyroidism is from the administration of the RXR-selective ligand, bexarotene (Targretin). This medication is highly effective in cutaneous T cell lymphoma, but as reported by Sherman et al, up to 70% of patients treated with daily doses > 300 mg/m 2 had symptoms and signs of hypothyroidism. This was associated with reduction of serum TSH to an average of 0.05 mU/l, and reduction of free T4 from 12.9 pmol/l to 5.8 pmol/l 17 . A single dose of bexarotene rapidly and significantly suppresses serum TSH in healthy subjects, without an effect on serum prolactin or cortisol, suggesting a specific effect on thyrotropes (28). In vitro studies have shown that activity of the TSHβ subunit gene promoter is suppressed by 9-cis-retinoic acid and bexarotene 17 , but other studies have not confirmed this 29 . Rexinoids may further increase thyroid hormone metabolism through deiodination, sulfation and possibly glucuronidation (30,31).The condition can be appropriately treated by administration of thyroid hormone. (17) 9.3.2 CHRONIC AUTOIMMUNE THYROIDITIS Chronic autoimmune thyroiditis may eventually cause hypothyroidism, mainly via destruction of thyrocytes (see also Ch. 7 ). In goitrous autoimmune hypothyroidism (the classical variant originally described by Hashimoto) the histology of the thyroid gland is characterized by massive lymphocytic infiltration with formation of germinal centers and oxyphilic changes of thyrocytes. In atrophic myxedema fibrosis is predominant, next to lymphocytic infiltration. The diffuse Hashimoto goiter has a peculiar firm consistency like rubber; the goiter may regress with time but can persist in many cases 1 . In some instances the patient presents with an initial transient hyperthyroid stage, called Hashitoxicosis'. The term Hashimoto's disease is generally used to indicate auto-immune destruction of thyrocytes which may eventually result in hypothyroidism although many cases remain euthyroid (see also Ch. 8 ). The serological hallmark of Hashimoto's disease is the presence of high titers of thyroid peroxidase (TPO) autoantibodies, formerly known as thyroid microsomal antibodies. The opposite of Hashimoto's disease is Graves' disease characterized by the presence of TSH receptor stimulating antibodies resulting in hyperthyroidism. The two disease entities frequently overlap, and can be viewed as the
