Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


of Hashimoto's disease is Graves' disease characterized by the presence of TSH receptor stimulating antibodies resulting in hyperthyroidism. The two disease entities frequently overlap, and can be viewed as the opposite ends of a continuous spectrum of autoimmune thyroid disease. Indeed, many patients with Graves' disease have TPO antibodies, and some case reports mention classical features of Graves' disease like exophthalmos and pretibial myxedema in the presence of hypothyroidism without any previous thyrotoxicosis 2 . TSH receptor blocking antibodies do occur in Hashimoto's disease, contributing to thyroid atrophy and hypothyroidism; they are more prevalent in Japanese than in Caucasian patients 3,4 . TSH receptor antibodies in Hashimoto's disease are negatively correlated to serum FT4 and thyroid size 5 . The clinical manifestation of Hashimoto's disease with respect to thyroid function and thyroid size depends on the net effect of the various immunologic effector mechanisms involved in chronic autoimmune thyroiditis. Genetic and environmental factors may modulate the expression of the disease (6). Autoimmune hypothyroidism is associated with a number of single nucleotide polymorphisms in susceptibility genes (HLA-DR3, CTLA-4, PTPN22, Tg) (7). The prevalence of Hashimoto’s thyroiditis is higher in regions with a high ambient iodine intake than in iodine-deficient areas 8,9,10 . Smoking to a certain extent protects against the development of TPO antibodies and overt autoimmune hypothyroidism (11,12,13). 9.3.3 REVERSIBLE AUTOIMMUNE HYPOTHYROIDISM Chronic autoimmune thyroiditis. Conventional wisdom has it that ‘once hypothyroid means always hypothyroid'. Indeed, the vast majority of patients with hypothyroidism due to chronic autoimmune thyroiditis require life-long thyroxine replacement therapy, but spontaneous recovery does occur in about 5% 1 . Return to the euthyroid state is apparently more frequent in countries like Japan, where - at a high ambient iodine intake - restriction of dietary iodine alone may induce a remission 2 .Conditions that increase the likelihood of spontaneous recovery are the presence of a goiter, a relatively high thyroidal radioiodine uptake, and a preserved increase of T3 after the administration of TRH during thyroxine treatment 3,4,5 .The spontaneous evolution from hypothyroidism back to euthyroidism has been related to the disappearance of TSH receptor blocking antibodies 6 . Changes in the titers of co-existing TSH receptor blocking and stimulating antibodies explain the sometimes observed alternating course of hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism in the same subject 7 . Silent thyroiditis and postpartum thyroiditis. Silent or painless thyroiditis and postpartum thyroiditis are variant forms of chronic autoimmune thyroiditis. The autoimmune
