Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism in the same subject 7 . Silent thyroiditis and postpartum thyroiditis. Silent or painless thyroiditis and postpartum thyroiditis are variant forms of chronic autoimmune thyroiditis. The autoimmune reaction causes a mainly T-cell mediated destructive thyroiditis, which however is self-limiting. The characteristic course of the disease is thus first a thyrotoxic stage due to the release of stored hormone from the disrupted follicles, followed by a hypothyroid stage during the recovery towards a normal thyroid architecture; usually euthyroidism is restored within a few months (see also Ch. 8 ). In many cases the disease remains unnoticed, as clinical symptoms and signs are mostly limited. In the postpartum period it is also quite natural to attribute emerging complaints - especially if they are nonspecific in nature - to the aftermath of pregnancy and the work load of having a baby. Postpartum thyroiditis is, however, a rather common event, with an incidence of 4-6% as evident from several population-based studies 8,9 . The incidence in type I diabetes mellitus is four times higher, up to 25% 10 . Postpartum thyroiditis can be predicted to a certain extent from the presence of TPO antibodies in the serum of pregnant women in the first trimester: a titer of >100 kU/l at 2 weeks has a positive predictive value of 0.50 and a negative predictive value of 0.98 in this respect 9 . The titer of TPO antibodies decreases in the second and third trimester, and increases again in the postpartum period . Women who have experienced postpartum thyroiditis, have a 40% risk to develop again postpartum thyroiditis after a following pregnancy. About 20-30% of women with postpartum thyroiditis will develop permanent hypothyroidism within 5 years; the risk is higher in women with high titers of TPO-antibodies 11 . A subset of women with postpartum thyroiditis experience only a thyrotoxic phase; they are less at risk for later development of hypothyroidism 12 . Maternal TPO antibodies are associated with depression in the postpartum period 13 and with impaired child development 14 . A low maternal FT4 concentration during early pregnancy is also associated with impaired psychomotor development in infancy 15,16 . Cytokine-induced thyroiditis. Cytokines are heavily involved in immune reactions (see Ch. 7 ), and it is thus not surprising that treatment with pharmacological doses of cytokines may induce autoimmune diseases in susceptible subjects. Treatment with interleukin-2 or interferon-α (IFNα) of patients with
