Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


), and it is thus not surprising that treatment with pharmacological doses of cytokines may induce autoimmune diseases in susceptible subjects. Treatment with interleukin-2 or interferon-α (IFNα) of patients with malignant tumors or hepatitis B or C is causally related to the occurrence of TPO-antibodies and the development of abnormal thyroid function 17,18,19,20 . The incidence is about 5-20%. Two types of IFNα-induced hypothyroidism have been recognized: autoimmune and non-autoimmune (21). Interferon-α induced autoimmune hypothyroidism is characterized by the presence of TPO antibodies. Elevated TPO antibodies before start of IFNα therapy increases the risk (positive predictive value 68% for the development of overt autoimmune hypothyroidism) (22), but TPO antibodies may develop de novo during IFNα treatment in 10-40% (23) Interferon-α induced non-autoimmune hypothyroidism is a destructive thyroiditis: a self-limited inflammatory disorder of the thyroid gland, characterized by an early thyrotoxic phase caused by the release of preformed thyroid hormones, and a late hypothyroid phase with complete resolution in most cases. IFNα has many immune effects including activation of immune cells, switching the immune response to Th1 pathways, downregulation of Treg cells, induction of cytokine release, and induction of MHC I expression on thyroid cells, all likely involved in the pathogenesis of IFNα induced autoimmune hypothyroidism (although it remains less well understood why IFNα can also induce Graves’ hyperthyroidism) (23). IFNα also exerts a direct toxic effect on thyrocytes, possibly involved in IFNα induced non-autoimmune hypothyroidism (26). IFNα-induced thyroiditis is most common in patients with chronic hepatitis C. It has therefore been hypothesized that hepatitis C virus could trigger thyroiditis by infecting thyroid cells. Supporting this view is the finding that the hepatitis C virus E2 protein can bind to CD81 molecules on thyroid cells and provoke IL-8 secretion (24).The prevalence of autoimmune and non-autoimmune types is about similar. Treatment is with levothyroxine, with no need to stop IFNα therapy. L-T4 replacement requirements may increase if patients are treated with a second course of interferon, or may decrease or end after completion of the IFNα course (19,25). It is recommended to screen all patients before starting IFNα therapy (TSH, TPO-Ab). If TSH is normal and TPO antibodies negative, TSH monitoring every three months is recommended until completion of IFNα treatment. If TPO antibodies are present, TSH monitoring every two months might be useful (23). 9.3.4 POSTOPERATIVE AND POSTRADIATION HYPOTHYROIDISM Surgery. An important cause of hypothyroidism is surgical removal of the gland.
