Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


TPO antibodies are present, TSH monitoring every two months might be useful (23). 9.3.4 POSTOPERATIVE AND POSTRADIATION HYPOTHYROIDISM Surgery. An important cause of hypothyroidism is surgical removal of the gland. Up to 40 percent of patients who undergo thyroidectomy for Graves' disease develop hypothyroidism (1). Most patients become hypothyroid in the first year after surgery; immediate postoperative hypothyroidism may resolve spontaneously by 6 months. After the first year the cumulative incidence of hypothyroidism rises by 1-2% per year. The frequency of hypothyroidism depends on the zeal of the surgeon and on other factors, such as the function of the thyroid remnant or the presence of active thyroiditis. Its occurrence correlates with the presence of antibodies to thyroid antigens. Thus, progressive destruction of residual tissue by thyroiditis may be the pathogenic mechanism. Hypothyroidism after surgical removal of multinodular goiter is less common (about 15%). Myxedema occurs almost invariably after subtotal thyroidectomy for Hashimoto's thyroiditis and after removal of lingual thyroids. Radioiodine. A leading cause of hypothyroidism is radioactive iodine (RAI) treatment of Graves' disease. The frequency with which hypothyroidism supervenes RAI therapy is dependent on multiple factors, the principal one being the dose of RAI administered. The incidence of hypothyroidism 10 years after treatment is reported as high as 70 percent 1 . Hypothyroidism frequently develops already in the first year after treatment (with spontaneous return to euthyroidism in some patients), but it may not be manifest until years later in others. Its cumulative occurrence after the first year continues to rise with 0.5-2% annually, and it has been suggested that virtually all patients treated in this way will eventually become hypothyroid. Various treatment schedules have been devised with the hope of diminishing the incidence of RAI-induced hypothyroidism 2,3 , but in general, a lower incidence of hypothyroidism is invariably associated with a higher prevalence of persistent thyrotoxicosis that requires retreatment 3,4 . Inadvertent administration of RAI during gestation may cause neonatal hypothyroidism when given to the mother during the last two trimesters and also occasionally in the first trimester of pregnancy 5 . Hypothyroidism occurs less often (6-13 %) after 131I treatment of toxic nodular goiter 6,7 . External irradiation. Hypothyroidism may supervene after therapeutic irradiation of the neck for any of a number of malignant diseases. It is particularly common (25-50%) after irradiation for Hodgkins' and non-Hodgkins' lymphoma, especially when the thyroid has not been shielded during mantle field
