Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


any of a number of malignant diseases. It is particularly common (25-50%) after irradiation for Hodgkins' and non-Hodgkins' lymphoma, especially when the thyroid has not been shielded during mantle field irradiation and when iodine-containing X-ray contrast agents have been used prior to radiotherapy 8 . External radiotherapy for head and neck cancer (e.g. laryngeal carcinoma) carries an actuarial risk of 15% for developing overt hypothyroidism three years after treatment 10 . Elevated TSH values are even more common, with a 5-year incidence rate of 48% in another study with a median follow-up of 4,4 years 11 . Total body irradiation with subsequent bone marrow transplantation for acute leukemia or aplastic anemia may cause (subclinical) hypothyroidism in about 25%, usually occurring after one year and transient in half of the patients 9 . Probably because of radiation damage, subclinical or overt hypothyroidism is common among surviving bone marrow transplant recipients: there is a greater risk among younger patients, and need for life-long surveillance (12). 9.3.5 INFILTRATIVE AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES The production of hypothyroidism by infiltrative disease is mentioned for completeness, despite the rarity of these conditions. Among these rare causes of primary hypothyroidism are sarcoidosis, cystinosis 1 (up to 86% in adults), progressive systemic sclerosis and amyloidosis 2 . Hypothyroidism is a frequent sequela of invasive fibrous thyroiditis of Riedel, occurring in 30-40% of the patients. Hypothyroidism due to infectious disease is equally rare (3). Infection of the thyroid gland is somewhat more frequent in immunocompromised patients and in subjects with pre-existent thyroid abnormalities. Hypothyroidism in the recovery phase of subacute thyroiditis of De Quervain - a condition most likely related to a previous viral infection- is in contrast a very common event (see Ch. 19 ). 9.3.6 CONGENITAL HYPOTHYROIDISM Congenital hypothyroidism can be permanent or transient in nature. Transient cases might be caused by transplacental passage of TSH receptor blocking antibodies, or iodine excess. Permanent cases are caused by either loss of functional tissue (mostly thyroid dysgenesis), by functional defects in thyroid hormone biosynthesis (‘loss of function' mutations in genes encoding for the TSH-R, NIS, Tg, TPO, DUOX2 and its maturation factor DUOXA2, or DEHAL), or by thyroid hormone resistance (TRα and TRβ1 mutations). For full discussion: see Ch. 15 and 16 . 9.3.7 IODINE DEFICIENCY AND IODINE EXCESS Hypothyroidism caused by iodine deficiency is discussed in Ch. 20 . It is remarkable that hypothyroidism can also be caused by
