Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


and 16 . 9.3.7 IODINE DEFICIENCY AND IODINE EXCESS Hypothyroidism caused by iodine deficiency is discussed in Ch. 20 . It is remarkable that hypothyroidism can also be caused by iodine excess, a condition described in the literature as ‘iodide-induced myxedema'. It can be explained by autoregulatory mechanisms operative in the thyroid gland. Inorganic iodide in excess of daily doses of 500-1000 µg inhibits organification of iodide; this phenomenon is known as the Wolff-Chaikoff effect. Usually an escape from the Wolff-Chaikoff effect occurs after several weeks. An unidentified iodinated product of the organification process (presumably an iodinated lipid) seems to be involved, which inhibits thyroidal iodide transport: consequently, the intrathyroidal iodine concentration falls below the level required for inhibition of organification 1 . Failure to escape from the Wolff-Chaikoff effect may produce hypothyroidism and this occurs preferentially in subjects with pre-existent subtle organification defects. Indeed patients with chronic autoimmune thyroiditis, previous subacute or postpartum thyroiditis, or previous radioiodine or surgical therapy are prone to iodide-induced hypothyroidism 2 ,3 . Sources of iodine excess are an iodine-rich diet (e.g. seaweed ) and iodine-containing drugs like potassium iodide, some vitamin preparations, kelp tablets, topical antiseptics, radiographic contrast agents, and amiodarone. Amiodarone contains 39% of iodine by weight; large quantities of iodine are released during the biotransformation of the drug, giving rise to a 45-60 times higher iodine exposure than the optimal daily iodine intake of 150-300 µg recommended by the WHO.Amiodarone-induced hypothyroidism occurs predominantly in the first 18 months of treatment, especially in females with pre-existent thyroid antibodies 4 . Its incidence is higher in regions with a high ambient iodine intake than in areas with a lower iodine intake (22% and 5% respectively) 5 . Mild iodide fortification of salt in Denmark increased average urinary iodide from the 45-61ug/l range up to 86-93ug/l. This cautious iodization of salt was accompanied by a moderate increase in the baseline incidence rate of overt hypothyroidism (38/100,000/yr) by 20-30%. This occurred primarily in young and middle-aged subjects with previous moderate iodine deficiency (6). 9.3.8 DRUG-INDUCED HYPOTHYROIDISM A variety of therapeutic drugs can lead to moderate or even severe hypothyroidism (see also Ch. 9.8.3 ). The common antithyroid drugs (carbimazole, methimazole, and propylthiouracil) if given in sufficient quantity will cause hypothyroidism. This is also theoretically possible with agents that can block the uptake of iodide by the thyroid, such as perchlorate or thiocyanate, although these are
