Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


sufficient quantity will cause hypothyroidism. This is also theoretically possible with agents that can block the uptake of iodide by the thyroid, such as perchlorate or thiocyanate, although these are rarely given. In susceptible individuals, primarily those with a history of autoimmune thyroid disease such as Hashimoto's or Graves' disease or in patients who have had either radiation or surgical trauma to the thyroid gland, large doses of iodide can cause goitrous hypothyroidism 1,2 (see also Ch. 9.3.7 ). While this is now less common, since iodides are no longer given for chronic pulmonary disease and lipid-soluble contrast agents are no longer used in diagnostic procedures, the problem may arise with patients taking iodine supplements or natural foods with high iodine content. Lithium has similar effects to those of iodide; it inhibits thyroid hormone release as well as hormone synthesis 3 . While lithium-induced hypothyroidism is more common in patients with underlying autoimmune disease, it has been reported in individuals with apparently normal thyroid glands. Long-term treatment with lithium results in goiter in about 50%, in subclinical hypothyroidism in about 20%, and in overt hypothyroidism also in 20% 4 . There are a large number of organic compounds that may impair thyroid function. These include phenol derivatives such as resorcinol, benzoic acid compounds such as para-aminosalicylic acid, the oral sulfonylurea compounds, phenylbutazone, aminoglutethimide, and a number of other agents 5 . Industrial pollution with polychlorinated biphenyls can also cause goitrous hypothyroidism 6 . In workers exposed to perchlorate, serum TSH and thyroid volume were not affected (7). Also in healthy volunteers, a 6-month exposure to perchlorate at doses up to 3 mg/day had no effect on thyroid function (8). Environmental low-level perchlorate exposure was ubiquitous in pregnant women but did not affect thyroid function (9). Tyrosine kinase inhibitors freqently affect thyroid gland function and thyroid hormone metabolism. Imatinib and motesanib therapy has no adverse thyroid effects when a normal thyroid gland is in situ, but may require an increase in the replacement dose of L-T4 in hypothyroid patients (see section 9.8.3). In contrast, sunitinib and sorafenib therapy (applied in gastrointestinal stromal tumors and renal cell carcinoma) gives rise to primary hypothyroidism in a high proportion of patients (10). In the first study on 42 euthyroid patients treated by sunitinib, 36% had persistent hypothyroidism requiring L-T4 treatment, 17% had TSH between 5 and 7 mU/L, and 10% had suppressed TSH levels
