Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


first study on 42 euthyroid patients treated by sunitinib, 36% had persistent hypothyroidism requiring L-T4 treatment, 17% had TSH between 5 and 7 mU/L, and 10% had suppressed TSH levels (11). In a prospective study among 59 patients, 61% were found to have a transient or permanently elevated TSH, and 27% required L-T4 replacement (12). The probability of hypothyroidism increases with each time and each cycle of treatment. Serum TSH increases at the end of the ON phase and is near the mormal range at the end of the OFF phase, leading to intermittent hypothyroidism. After several treatment cycles a permanent hypothyroidism occurs. It is uncertain if thyroid function tests return to normal after definitive withdrawal of sunitinib therapy.How sunitinib reduce thyroid gland function, is incompletely understood. Inhibition of thyroid radioiodine uptake has been observed (13) but in vitro experiments showed no effect on sodium-iodide transporters in thyroid cells (14). Impairment of thyroid peroxidase activity is shown in vitro (15), but still to be confirmed in vivo. Destructive thyroiditis has also been proposed (11,16). Recent case studies report marked reduction of thyroid volume and blood flow during sunitinib (17,18). A unifying hypothesis is that sunitinib (inhibiting vascular endothelial growth factor receptors as a major mechanism of action on tumors) causes regresion of the thyroid vascular bed resulting in impaired thyroid function(19).Vasoconstriction of thyroid vessels could reduce glandular uptake of radioiodine. Reduced thyroid perfusion could cause apoptosis of thyroid cells, resulting in thyroiditis in some patients. Sorafenib therapy in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma was associated with TSH elevations in 18% after 2-4 months, and one quarter of them developed thyroglobulin antibodies (20). TSH may be suppressed before the development of elevated TSH levels, suggesting destructive thyroiditis (21). Hypothyroidism would persist after sorafenib withdrawal. Sorafenib also has anti-angiogenic effects. It has been postulated that thyroid toxicity is restricted to tyrosine kinase inhibitors targeting key kinase receptors in angiogenic pathways, but not other kinase receptors (22,23). 9.3.9. CONSUMPTIVE HYPOTHYROIDISM (MASSIVE INFANTILE HEMANGIOMA) Severe hypothyroidism has been described in a few infants with massive hemangiomas, due to high levels of activity of type 3 iodothyronine deiodinase in the hemangioma tissue 1 . Type 3 deiodinase inactivates T4 by conversion into reverse T3 (explaining the paradoxically high serum rT3 concentrations in these hypothyroid patients), and T3 by conversion into 3,3’-diiodothyronine. The high level of expression of type 3 deiodinase is likely induced by
