Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


(explaining the paradoxically high serum rT3 concentrations in these hypothyroid patients), and T3 by conversion into 3,3’-diiodothyronine. The high level of expression of type 3 deiodinase is likely induced by growth factors. The infants have no evidence of thyroid gland disease, and their hypothyroidism is apparently caused by an increased rate of thyroid hormone degradation in extra-thyroidal tissues outstripping the rate of thyroid hormone production: a nice example of “consumptive” hypothyroidism. This type of “peripheral” hypothyroidism has also been observed in a young adult 3 , in an athyreotic adult on levothyroxine 5 , and in a 54-yr patient with a large malignant solitary fibrous tumor expressing functional type 3 deiodinase activity 4 Surgical removal of the tumor restores euthyroidism. 9.4 PATHOLOGY OF HYPOTHYROIDISM The characteristic pathologic finding in hypothyroidism is a peculiar mucinous nonpitting edema (myxedema), which is most obvious in the dermis but can be present in many organs. The myxedema is due to accumulation of hyaluronic acid and other glycosaminoglycans in interstitial tissue; these hydrophilic molecules attract much water 1 . The deposits of glycosaminoglycans have been related to loss of the inhibitory effects of thyroid hormone on the synthesis of hyaluronate, fibronectin and collagen by fibroblasts 2,3 . The skin is distinctly abnormal. There is hyperkeratotic plugging of sweat glands and hair follicles. The dermis is edematous, and the collagen fibers are separated, swollen, and frayed. Extracellular material that appears eosinophilic or basophilic in hematoxylin and eosin stains, or that appears pink (metachromatic) with toluidine blue, or takes the periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) stain for mucopolysaccharides is much increased in the dermis. A sparse mononuclear cell infiltrate may be found about the blood vessels. Skeletal muscle cells are swollen and appear grossly to be pale and edematous. Frequently microscopic examination reveals no significant abnormality. Alternatively, the normal striations are lost, and degenerative foci are seen in the cells. The fibers are separated in these degenerative foci by accumulations of a basophilic, PAS-positive homogenous infiltrate. This infiltrate may appear as a semilunar deposit under the sarcolemma. The heart may be dilated and hypertrophied. Interstitial edema and an increase in fibrous tissue are present. The individual muscle cells may show the same changes seen in skeletal muscle. The serous cavities may all contain abnormal amounts of fluid with a normal or high protein content. The liver may appear normal or may show evidence of edema. Central congestive fibrosis in
