Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


cavities may all contain abnormal amounts of fluid with a normal or high protein content. The liver may appear normal or may show evidence of edema. Central congestive fibrosis in the absence of congestive heart failure has been described. The mitochondria tend to be spherical and their limiting membranes smooth, whereas those of the liver in thyrotoxicosis vary in shape and have wrinkled outer membranes 4 . The skeleton may be unusually dense on radiographic examination. In children, bone maturation is usually retarded, and typical epiphyseal dysgenesis of hypothyroidism is present 5 . The brain may show atrophy of cells, gliosis, and foci of degeneration. Deposition of mucinous material and round bodies containing glycogen (neural myxedematous bodies) has been found in the cerebellum of patients with long-standing myxedema and ataxia 6 . In uncorrected congenital hypothyroidism , the brain retains infantile characteristics. There is neuronal hypoplasia, retarded myelination, and decreased vascularity (see Ch. 15 ). The blood vessels often show prominent atherosclerosis. Whether this condition is more severe than might be anticipated on the basis of the patient's age and sex remains an unsettled question. In the intestinal tract there is an accumulation of mast cells and interstitial mucoid material, especially near the basement membrane. The smooth muscle cells may show lesions similar to those seen in skeletal muscle. The mucosa of the stomach, small bowel, and large bowel may be atrophic. The rest of the gastrointestinal tract, especially the colon, may be very dilated (myxedema megacolon). The uterus typically has a proliferative or atrophic endometrium in premenopausal women. The kidney is grossly normal. Light and electron microscopic studies of renal biopsy samples have demonstrated thickening of the glomerular and tubular basement membranes, proliferation of the endothelial and mesangial cells, intracellular inclusions, and extracellular deposition of amorphous material with characteristics of acid mucopolysaccharides 8,9 . In the pituitary in primary myxedema there is an increase in a class of cells that can be identified by the iron-periodic, acid Schiff, or aldehyde fuchsin staining techniques 10 . These are referred to variously as gamma cells, sparsely granulated basophils, or amphophils. Presumably they are derived from basophilic cells or chromophobes and are active in secreting TSH. Acidophilic cells are decreased. Patients who are congenitally hypothyroid and those who are hypothyroid during childhood may develop pituitary fossa enlargement. Occasionally prolonged hypothyroidism leads to sella enlargement in the adolescent and adult, and pituitary tumors
