Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


are congenitally hypothyroid and those who are hypothyroid during childhood may develop pituitary fossa enlargement. Occasionally prolonged hypothyroidism leads to sella enlargement in the adolescent and adult, and pituitary tumors have been described 11 . In these glands acidophils are virtually absent. In pituitary hypothyroidism the pituitary may be replaced by fibrous and cystic structures, granulomas, or neoplasia. Occasionally hypothyroidism due to deficient TSH secretion occurs in patients having the empty sella syndrome or because of isolated TSH or TRH deficiency. The adrenals may be normal or their cortex may be atrophied. The combination of adrenal cortical atrophy and hypothyroidism is known as Schmidt's syndrome and is thought to be of autoimmune etiology. Bloodworth found clinical evidence for hypothyroidism in 9 of 35 patients with Addison's disease; in 8 there was fibrosis of thethyroid, with atrophy in 4. The adrenal medulla appeared normal 12 . The ovaries and parathyroids have shown no definite abnormalities. The testes may show Leydig cells with involutionary nucleus and cytoplasm, hyalinization, or involution of the tubular cells, and proliferation of intertubular connective tissue in hypothyroidism with onset before puberty. Onset after maturity, in one case, led to similar changes that were restricted to the tubules. The pancreatic islets are usually normal, although hyperplasia was present in one of our autopsied cases. 9.5 SYSTEMIC MANIFESTATIONS OF HYPOTHYROIDISM The clinical expression of thyroid hormone deficiency varies considerably between individuals, depending on the cause, duration and severity of the hypothyroid state. Characteristically, there is a slowing of physical and mental activity, and of many organ functions. 9.5.1 ENERGY AND NUTRIENT METABOLISM Energy metabolism. Thyroid hormone deficiency slows metabolism, resulting in a decrease of resting energy expenditure, oxygen consumption, and utilization of substrates. Reduced thermogenesis is related to the characteristic cold intolerance of hypothyroid patients. Measurement of the resting energy expenditure is rarely performed nowadays. In patients with complete athyreosis it falls between 35 and 45 percent below normal. In Addison's disease, the BMR may fall to -25 or -30 percent and, in hypopituitarism to below - 50 percent. The failure to find a metabolic rate as low as - 35 percent, when the clear-cut picture of myxedema is present, is very unusual. The effect of thyroid hormone deficiency on appetite and energy intake is not precisely known but energy expenditure certainly decreases, leading to a slight net gain in energy stores. Body weight increases on average by 10%
