Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


on appetite and energy intake is not precisely known but energy expenditure certainly decreases, leading to a slight net gain in energy stores. Body weight increases on average by 10% due to an increase if body fat and retention of water and salt. An increase of adipose tissue mass results in an increase of serum leptin, which mediates a decrease in energy intake while energy disposal increases, eventually leading to a reduction in adipose tissue mass. Interactions between leptin and thyroid hormone have thus attracted much interest , especially because prolonged fasting in rodents decreases leptin and inhibits the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis resulting in a fall of serum TSH and serum T4. In hypothyroid patients, an increase, no change, or a decrease in plasma leptin concentrations has been reported (1-4,48). Whether thyroid hormone regulates leptin secretion independent of body mass index and body fat, remains controversial. In one study, leptin concentrations expressed as standard deviation scores (Z-scores) from the mean value of female controls matched for body mass index and age, were lower in hypothyroid and higher in thyrotoxic women, whereas Z-scores did not deviate from the expected values after restoration of the euthyroid state 1 . Thyroid hormone apparently modulates serum leptin only to a small extent. Ghrelin, a gastric peptide that plays a role in appetite stimulation and energy balance, is elevated in hypothyroid patients in most studies with a return to normal after L-T4 treatment (4-6). . It appears that leptin is mainly involved in thyroid hormone effects on energy homeostasis, whereas ghrelin may serve a compensatory physiological role (9).Serum adiponectin and resistin concentrations are not changed in hypothyroidism relative to controls (3,7,8,49). Serum obestatin and visfatin are increased in hypothyroidism; visfatin levels had a direct relationship with insulin resistance and body mass index (50,51). Protein metabolism. The effect of hypothyroidism on protein metabolism is complex, and its effect on the concentration of a given protein difficult to predict. In general, both the synthesis and the degradation of proteins are reduced, but hypothyroid patients are in positive nitrogen balance. Despite both a decrease in the rate of albumin synthesis and degradation, the total exchangeable albumin pool increases in myxedema 10 . The albumin is distributed in a much larger volume, suggesting enhanced permeability of capillary walls. A synthesis of thyroid hormone-responsive proteins is clearly reduced in the hypothyroid state, whereas that of proteins such as TSH or glycosaminoglycans
