Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


larger volume, suggesting enhanced permeability of capillary walls. A synthesis of thyroid hormone-responsive proteins is clearly reduced in the hypothyroid state, whereas that of proteins such as TSH or glycosaminoglycans may be increased under the same circumstances 11,12 . Comparative studies of protein translation by hepatic ribosomes from T3-treated hypothyroid rats show that the mRNA's from some proteins are increased and others are decreased. Most of these proteins have not been identified. Treatment of myxedema is accompanied by mobilization of extracellular protein and a marked but temporary negative nitrogen balance, reflecting the mobilization of extracellular protein 13 . In a later phase there is an increase in urinary potassium and phosphorus together with nitrogen in amounts suggesting that cellular protein is also being metabolized 14 . Carbohydrate metabolism. Glucose is absorbed from the intestine at a slower rate than normal. Fasting plasma glucose and fasting insulin levels are mostly similar to control values (8,15) although sometimes slightly lower glucose and higher insulin values than normal are reported 16,17,18 . Glycosylated hemoglobin is normal (21). The occurrence of hypoglycemia in hypothyroid patients should alert the physician to concomitant diseases (e.g. hypopituitarism). The development of hypothyroidism in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus may require lowering of the insulin dose to counteract the decreased rate of insulin degradation (22).The oral glucose tolerance test usually shows no abnormalities but a peak value that remains elevated at 2 hours can be observed (15,16,17), probably related to slow gastric motility and delayed absorption. Insulin response to an oral glucose load is variable; sometimes it is higher than in controls (15,18). When sugar is given intravenously, the glucose disappearance rate is prolonged although the peak value is normal in magnitude and in time of occurrence; the insulin response is blunted and slightly delayed 19 . Their exists fair evidence that hypothyroidism is associated with some degree of insulin resistance. The HOMA index (Homeostasis Model of Assessment) reflects the insulin resistance in the fasting state (mainly insulin resistance in the liver), while the Matsuda index reflects insulin sensitivity in the postprandrial state (mainly insulin sensitivity in the peripheral tissues). The HOMA index was found to be normal (5,8,15) or increased (18, 20) in hypothyroid patients vs euthyroid controls, whereas the Matsuda index was decreased and correlated positively with serum FT4 (15,18). The data suggest that insulin resistance might be present in some patients in the fasting state, but
