Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


whereas the Matsuda index was decreased and correlated positively with serum FT4 (15,18). The data suggest that insulin resistance might be present in some patients in the fasting state, but more frequently in the postprandrial state. Several other studies point into the same direction. In isolated monocytes derived from hypothyroid patients, insulin-stimulated rates of glucose transport are decreased due to impaired translocation of GLUT4 glucose transporters on the plasma membrane 18 . Hypothyroid patients as compared to euthyroid controls, also have lower postprandrial glucose uptake in muscles and adipose tissue 15 . Euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp studies in hypothyroid patients show an increase in insulin sensitivity after restoration of the euthyroid state (21). Lipid metabolism. Biosynthesis of fatty acids and lipolysis are reduced. Changes in serum lipids are listed in Table 9-4 . The lipid changes bear in general a reciprocal relationship to the level of thyroid activity.The increased serum cholesterol in hypothyroidism may represent an alteration in a substrate steady-state level caused by a transient proportionally greater retardation in degradation than in synthesis 23,24,25 . The increase of serum cholesterol is largely accounted for by an increase of LDL-cholesterol, which is cleared less efficiently from the circulation due to a decreased T3-dependent gene expressing of the hepatic LDL-receptor. there is also evidence that the increase of LDL-cholesterol is also mediated via non-LDL receptor pathways by inducing Cyp7a1 expression and stimulating the conversion and excretion of cholesterol as bile acids 26,27,28,29 ,52,53 . Table 9-4 Changes in serum lipids in hypothyroidism View in own window Total cholesterolLDL-cholesterolHDL 2 -cholesterolHDL 3 -cholesterolTriglycerides increaseincreasemodest increaseno changeno change or modest increase Interestingly, the LDL particles of hypothyroid patients are also susceptible to increased oxidizability 30 . The increase of HDL2- but not of HDL3-cholesterol 31,32,33 is due to a diminished activity of cholesteryl ester transfer protein 34,35 and hepatic lipase (which is involved in the conversion of HDL2 to HDL3). The changes in plasma LDL-and HDL-cholesterol are related to changes in free thyroxine, not to polymorphisms in LDL receptor or cholesteryl ester transfer protein genes 36 . Serum levels of apolipoprotein B and AI are increased but apolipoprotein AII levels are not. The sometimes present modest increase of serum triglycerides has been related to a decreased lipoprotein lipase activity in adipose tissue, suggesting hypertriglyceridemia in hypothyroidism is caused by a decreased clearance by adipose tissue (15). Another study however suggests the combination of observed
