Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


a decreased lipoprotein lipase activity in adipose tissue, suggesting hypertriglyceridemia in hypothyroidism is caused by a decreased clearance by adipose tissue (15). Another study however suggests the combination of observed normal lipolysis, low lipid oxidation rates and high triglyceride concentrations is compatible with increased triglyceride synthesis (37).An oral lipid tolerance test indicates postprandial lipemia (defined as an increase of triglycerides by 80% or more) is more frequent in hypothyroid patients than controls(38). Free fatty acids concentrations in serum are mostly normal, but decreased and increased values have also been reported (37,39). Lipoprotein(a) levels are also found to be normal in most studies (31,33,40) Remnant particles in serum (reflecting chylomicron and VLDL remnants) are less effectively cleared in hypothyroidism 41,42 . Taken together, the changes in plasma lipids in hypothyroidism result in an atherogenic lipid profile, although this has been disputed (43). Several studies do indicate, however, increased oxidative stress in hypothyroid patients, as evident from higher levels of serum malondialdehyde and nitric oxide and lower levels of the anti-oxidant paraoxonase in serum relative to controls (44,45).The observed increased oxidative stress is independent of body mass index (46). In subcutaneous fat biopsies of hypothyroid patients the mRNA expression of uncoupling protein-2 (UCP2) is decreased; UCP2 mRNA was related to lipid oxidation rate, basal free fatty acids, and serum T3 (47). UCP2 is a determinant of fat oxidation pathways, and may be involved in changes in metabolic pathways in thyroid disease. 9.5.2 FACIES AND INTEGUMENT In the Report on Myxedema there is a detailed analysis of the symptoms of 109 patients described as "cretinoid," "expressionless," "heavy," "apathetic," "masklike," "vacant," "stolid," "good-tempered," "blunted," and "large-featured." The face is expression less when at rest, but it is not masklike, as in Parkinson's disease. When spoken to, the person with myxedema usually responds with a smile, which spreads after a latent period very slowly over the face. The patient is good-tempered but not entirely apathetic. The face is not vacant, as that of psychopathic patient may be. The features (except for the tongue) are not large, as in acromegaly. The face is expressionless at rest, puffy, pale, and often with a yellowish or old ivory tint. It is seldom as puffy as the classic facies of chronic renal failure. The skin of the face is parchment-like. In spite of the swelling it may be traced with fine wrinkles, particularly in pituitary myxedema. The swelling sometimes
