Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


in myxedema despite a slight reduction in its plasma concentration 2 . The sodium is extravascular and probably in the interstitial spaces. The diuresis seen after giving thyroid hormone to a hypothyroid subject occurs coincidentally with a decrease in tissue metachromasia and a temporary negative nitrogen balance 3 , and with this condition the extravascular sodium is mobilized and excreted. Studies with human skin fibroblasts have suggested that thyroid hormone inhibits the synthesis of hyaluronate. The mechanism for this effect has not been identified, but the thyroid hormone levels required to produce it in vitro are in the physiologic range 1 , 4 . Although similar deposits of mucopolysaccharides are found in the orbits of patients with the ophthalmopathy of Graves' disease and in the areas of localized myxedema, this striking observation has unfortunately not provided any basic understanding of the phenomenon, either in this condition or in primary myxedema (5). In summary, in hypothyroidism the skin is dry, pale, thick, and rough with scales, and it feels cold. Hashimoto’s thyroiditis is associated with vitiligo (RR 25.6 with 95% CI 13.3-44.2 in women, and 15.8 with 95% CI 0.40-85.2 in men) (6). Thyroid autoimmunity may also be associated with chronic urticaria (7,8). 9.5.3 NERVOUS SYSTEM Studies using 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy of the frontal lobe of adult hypothyroid patients report reversible alterations in phosphate metabolism, suggesting impairment of mitochondrial metabolism 1 . Thyroid hormone receptors are present in human brain. These and other findings indicate the adult human brain as a thyroid hormone responsive organ, and provide a biologic basis for the very prevalent neurologic and neurobehavioral symptoms in adult hypothyroid patients 2 ( Table 9-5 ). Table 9-5 Neurologic and psychiatric manifestations of hypothyroidism. NEUROLOGIC SYMPTOMS AND SIGNS Headache Paresthesias Carpal tunnel syndrome Cerebellar ataxia Deafness: nerve or conduction type Vertigo or tinnitus Delayed relaxation of deep tendon reflexes Sleep apnea EEG: low-amplitude theta and delta waves Prolonged evoked potentials CSF: elevated protein concentration COGNITIVE FUNCTIONS Reduced attention span Memory deficits Calculation difficulties PSYCHIATRIC SYNDROMES Myxedema madness (akinetic or agitated schizoid or affective psychoses) Depression Neurologic symptoms and signs. We are aware of no characteristic motor phenomena other than those due to weakness and to syndromes that seem to represent cerebellar dysfunction. A tendency to poor coordination was noted originally by the Myxoedema Commission. Jellinek and Kelly 3 described a series of myxedematous patients with ataxia, intention tremor,
