Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


does not correct the hearing defect. Night blindness is not uncommon. It is caused by a deficiency in the pigment retinene, which is required for the adaptation to dark. Uncorrected deficiency of thyroid hormone during neonatal life causes not only more profound neurologic abnormalities but also irreversible damage (see Ch. 15 ). Hashimoto’s encephalopathy is a condition in which otherwise unexplained central nervous system dysfunction is observed in patients with Hashimoto’s disease and positive TPO-antibodies. The condition responds to glucocorticoids.A causal relation to thyroid autoimmunity is believed probable, but remains uncertain 26,27 . EEG abnormalities can be present, again depending on the severity and duration of the hypothyroidism. There may be absence of alpha waves and presence of low-amplitude theta and delta waves. Visual and auditory evoked potentials may be delayed as a consequence of abnormal cerebral cortical metabolism. Sleep apnea is not uncommon 15 . It has been difficult to assign a causal role for the myopathy versus the coexistent obesity in some of the reported cases. However, the muscular dysfunction may extend to the diaphragm and intercostal muscles, thus impairing the ventilatory mechanism. Mental Symptoms. The mental picture in patients with overt hypothyroidism usually is one of extreme complacency. Memory is undoubtedly impaired, and attention and the desire to think are reduced . The emotional level seems definitely low, and irritability is decreased. Except in the terminal stage, reasoning power is preserved. Questions are answered intelligently, but slowly and without enthusiasm, and often with evidence of amusement. In a minority of patients, nervousness and apprehension are present. Cognitive tests of patients with moderate to severe hypothyroidism indicate difficulties in performing calculations, recent memory loss, reduced attention span, and slow reaction time 14,28 . Failing memory correlates inversely with serum T3 and T4 (23). Hypothyroidism may give rise rarely to reversible dementia, associated with reversible cerebral hypoperfusion (24). Recent studies indicate that hypothyroid-related memory deficits are not attributable to attentional deficit but rather to specific retrieval deficits (29). Hypothyroid patients showed prolongation of latencies only in the early ERP (event-related potential) components compared to controls, with speeding of sensory and cognitive processing after treatment (30).The cognitive impairment in hypothyroidism seems to be predominantly mnemonic in nature, possibly reflecting a specific defect in hippocampal memory (31). Imaging studies (functional MRI) have linked poorer memory states to specific brain areas and to reduced hippocampal volume 38,39 . Psychiatric syndromes. The typical
