Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


specific defect in hippocampal memory (31). Imaging studies (functional MRI) have linked poorer memory states to specific brain areas and to reduced hippocampal volume 38,39 . Psychiatric syndromes. The typical somnolence of severe hypothyroidism may suggest the psychiatric diagnosis of depression or dementia 16 . Patients are generally akinetic, though isolated case reports appear of patients who became hypomanic and agitated or garrulous (myxedema wit) as manifestations of this condition. Psychosis with hallucinations may occur (myxedema madness) 32 . Depression is so often associated with hypothyroidism that thyroid function tests should be performed in the evaluation of any patient presenting with this symptom. Central 5-hydroxytryptamine activity is reduced in hypothyroid patients 12 , and T3 supplementation might increase the efficacy of antidepressant drugs 13 although large randomized clinical trials in patients with major depression have produced conflicting results (32,33). At times, the depression in hypothyroidism is more severe than any of the other clinical manifestations of the disease. Because hypothyroidism is so readily treated, it is an especially important cause to eliminate in any patient with major depression. If the condition is due to hypothyroidism, it will resolve with time and appropriate treatment 17,18 . Patients hospitalized with hypothyroidism have a greater risk of readmission with depression or bipolar disorder than control patients 35 . Cerebral blood flow, oxygen consumption, and glucose consumption have been reported to be diminished in proportion to the drop in metabolism in the rest of the body 19 , but older studies found unaltered glucose and oxygen use by the brain in either hypo- or hyperthyroid animals or humans 20 . In one study, cerebral cortical perfusion was little changed with treatment, but there was a decided fall in cerebrovascular resistance 21 . More recent studies indicate a generalized decrease in regional cerebral blood flow of 24% and in cerebral glucose metabolism of 12%, indicating that brain activity is globally reduced in severe hypothyroidism without the regional modifications usually observed in primary depression 25 . In 2009 neuropsychiatric symptoms of hypothyroid patients were studied in relation to changes in relative regional cerebral glucose metabolism after L-T4 treatment (36). Reduction of behavioral complaints during L-T4 therapy was associated with restoration of metabolic activity in brain areas that are integral to the regulation of affect and recognition.The findings suggest that thyroid hormone modulates regional glucose metabolism and psychiatric symptoms in the mature brain.. Experimental animal studies have
