Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


that are integral to the regulation of affect and recognition.The findings suggest that thyroid hormone modulates regional glucose metabolism and psychiatric symptoms in the mature brain.. Experimental animal studies have shown that adult hypothyroidism in rats potentiates fear memory and also increases vulnerability to develop emotional memories. The findings further suggested that enhanced corticosterone signalling in the amygdala was involved in the pathophysiological mechanisms of fear memory potentiation 40 . Recent developments in brain imaging techniques thus provide novel insights in the relationship between hypothyroidism and mood disorders 41,42 . 9.5.4 CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM Table 9-6 Cardiovascular manifestations of hypothyroidism. View in own window Pathophysiology Symptoms • reduced myocardial contractility• low cardiac output• increased peripheral vascular resistance• decreased blood volume• increased capillary permeability• dyspnea • decreased exercise tolerance • angina Signs • low pulse rate • diastolic hypertension • cardiomegaly • pericardial effusion • peripheral (non)pitting edema • low voltage ECG with conduction disturbances and nonspecific ST-T changes• prolonged systolic time intervals Understanding of the cellular mechanisms of thyroid hormone action on the cardiovascular system has made it possible to explain to a large extent the decrease of cardiac output and cardiac contractility, the diastolic hypertension, the increased systemic vascular resistance, and the rhythm disturbances that result from hypothyroidism ( Table 9-6 ) (37,38). Hypothyroidism decreases tissue thermogenesis by 5-8%, and increases resistance in peripheral arterioles through the direct effect of T3 on vascular smooth muscle cells. Diastolic blood pressure rises, and the afterload of the heart increases. Cardiac chronotropy and inotropy is reduced, resulting in a decrease of cardiac output to < 4.5 L/min. Thyroid hormone is an important regulator of cardiac gene expression, and many of the cardiac manifestations of hypothyroidism are associated with alterations in T3-mediated gene expression. T3 regulates positively sarcoplasmatic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase and negatively its inhibitor phospholamban, which together function in intracellular calcium cycling and thereby regulate diastolic function. The reduced expression of sarcoplasmatic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase and the increased expression of phospholamban in the hypothyroid heart explains the slowing of the isovolumic relaxation phase of diastolic function, typical for hypothyroidism.T3 regulates positively α-myosin heavy chain (the fast myosin with higher ATPase activity), and negatively β-myosin heavy chain (the slow myosin). In the hypothyroid heart, the expression of α-myosin heavy chain is decreased and of β-myosin heavy chain increased. T3 positively regulates the ion channels sodium potassium ATPase (Na+,K+-ATPase), the voltage-gated potassium channels (Kv1.5, Kv4.2, Kv4.3), whereas
