Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


of α-myosin heavy chain is decreased and of β-myosin heavy chain increased. T3 positively regulates the ion channels sodium potassium ATPase (Na+,K+-ATPase), the voltage-gated potassium channels (Kv1.5, Kv4.2, Kv4.3), whereas T3 negatively regulates the sodium-calcium exchanger (Na+/Ca2+exchanger).Together these channels coordinate the electrochemical responses of the myocardium. T3 positively regulates the β1-adrenergic receptors. The pacemaker-related genes, hyperpolarization-activated cyclic-nucleotide-gated channels 2 and 4, are transcriptionally regulated by thyroid hormone. Systemic changes. Pulse rate and stroke volume are diminished in hypothyroidism, and cardiac output is accordingly decreased, often to one-half the normal value 1 . Myocardial contractility is reduced, but there is also a steep decline in the circulatory load, so that the circulation rarely fails until very late in the disease 2 . The speed of shortening is slowed, but the total force is not much modified. 3 . Myocardial adenyl cyclase levels are reduced 4 . The decrease in pulse rate occurs more or less in parallel with that of the metabolism. Stroke volume is reduced more than pulse rate at any given level, and is therefore the major determinant of the low cardiac output. Since the reduction in cardiac output is usually proportional to the decreased oxygen consumption by the tissues, the arteriovenous (AV) oxygen difference is normal or may be slightly increased. Slow peripheral circulation, and therefore more complete extraction of oxygen, as well as anemia, may be responsible for the increased AV oxygen difference. Myocardial oxygen consumption is decreased, usually more than blood supply to the myocardium, so that angina is infrequent. In some patients a reduction in cardiac output greater than the decline in oxygen consumption indicates specific cardiac damage from the myxedema 5 .Venous pressure is normal, but peripheral resistance is increased. Restoration of the euthyroid state normalizes peripheral vascular resistance. Changes in peripheral vascular resistance are not related to plasma adrenomedullin, but altered atrial natriuretic peptide secretion and adrenergic tone may contribute 29,39 . Central arterial stiffness is increased in hypothyroidism 30 , and arterial blood pressure is often mildly increased. It varies widely, but diastolic hypertension is usually restored to normal after treatment 6,7,31 . Cardiomegaly. The heart in hypothyroidism has been a focus of much controversy. The term Myxodemherz was introduced by Zondek in 1918 8 . It embraced dilatation of the left and right sides of the heart, slow, indolent heart action with normal blood pressure, and lowering of the P and
