Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


may immediately reverse the pattern toward normal suggesting that the effusion may in part be responsible for the abnormalities.The systolic time intervals are prolonged in hypothyroidism 5 , 7 , 10 , 20 . They can be measured by several techniques and have been expressed as the ratio of the pre-jection period and the left ventricular ejection time or the interval between the onset of the QRS complex of the ECG and the onset of the Korotkoff sound 21,22 . The most obvious effect of thyroid hormone deficiency on the heart is a lengthening of both systolic and early diastolic time characteristics. As evaluated by equilibrium radionuclide angiography, the time to peak emptying rate and the time to peak filling rate are longer in hypothyroid patients than in controls 23 ; the time intervals are negatively related to serum FT4 in the hypothyroid patients. The subtle decrease in early active relaxation and prolongation of contraction without major changes in global systolic function of hypothyroid patients is reversible upon thyroid hormone replacement therapy 24 . Atherosclerosis. It is frequently suggested that accelerated atherosclerosis occurs in hypothyroidism 32 . Hypothyroidism accelerates atheromatous changes when these are induced experimentally in animals, but data in humans are not complete enough to justify this assertion. Most autopsied myxedematous subjects have severe atherosclerosis, but they are also usually 60 years or more of age. Arterial disease did not appear to be accelerated in patients rendered hypothyroid for therapy of angina pectoris or congestive heart failure 22 , but they have been observed over a relatively short period. Increased coronary arteriosclerosis is found in myxedematous patients with hypertension, but not if they are normotensive 25 (see further § 9.8.4). Nevertheless, the atherogenic profile of serum lipids and increased levels of homocysteine in hypothyroidism might well contribute to a higher prevalence of atherosclerosis in hypothyroid patients. Indeed , a 20-year follow-up study in the UK did observe a higher incidence of ischemic heart disease in subjects with subclinical hypothyroidism 35 . Another population-based study from The Netherlands found subclinical hypothyroidism to be an independent risk factor for aortic atherosclerosis and myocardial infarction; the attributable risk was comparable to that of other known risk factors for coronary artery disease 36 . A Danish nationwide register study found an excess risk of being diagnosed with cardiovascular disease, both before the diagnosis and following the diagnosis of hypothyroidism 42 .The topic
