Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


36 . A Danish nationwide register study found an excess risk of being diagnosed with cardiovascular disease, both before the diagnosis and following the diagnosis of hypothyroidism 42 .The topic is more fully discussed in § 9.10.4. Angina pectoris. Occasionally angina pectoris is encountered in myxedema under two sets of circumstances. The less common is that in which angina or angina-like pain is present before treatment 26,27,28 . This generally indicates the presence of significant coronary artery disease since there is inadequate myocardial oxygenation despite reduced cardiac output and O2 utilization. Although improvement sometimes occurs with therapy 27 , this should not be undertaken until angiographic evaluation of the coronary arteries has been performed. Angina may also appear for the first time after therapy has been initiated, indicating that coronary flow is inadequate for resumption of normal cardiac function 26,27,28 . Again, this may indicate the presence of a structural lesion in coronary arteries. 9.5.5 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM Dyspnea is a frequent complaint of myxedematous patients, but it is also a common symptom among well persons. Congestive heart failure of separate origin, pleural effusion, anemia, obesity, or pulmonary disease may be responsible. Some information on pulmonary function in hypothyroidism is available 1-7 . Wilson and Bedell 1 found a normal vital capacity and arterial PCO2 and PO2 in 16 patients. They also found a decreased maximal breathing capacity, decreased diffusion capacity, and decreased ventilatory response to carbon dioxide. Decreased ventilatory drive is present in about one-third of hypothyroid patients, and the response to hypoxia returns rapidly within a week after beginning therapy 6 .The severity of hypothyroidism parallels the incidence of impaired ventilatory drive. Weakness of the respiratory muscles has also been implicated as a cause of alveolar hypoventilation. Patients with myxedema may develop carbon dioxide retention, and carbon dioxide narcosis may be a cause of myxedema coma 3,4 . Radiologic pulmonary abnormalities suggestive of fibrotic disease are associated with severe hypothyroidism, and may resolve with levothyroxine therapy (8).Myxedematous patients are more subject to respiratory infections. Obstructive sleep apnea has been documented in hypothyroidism in about 7% and is reversible with therapy 5 , 7 . The prevalence of hypothyroidism in patients seen for snoring or obstructive sleep apnea syndrome is, however, no greater than that seen in the general population 9 . The same authors report little or no improvement in apnea symptoms upon thyroid hormone replacement therapy in the
