Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


however, no greater than that seen in the general population 9 . The same authors report little or no improvement in apnea symptoms upon thyroid hormone replacement therapy in the hypothyroid patients. Indeed, when patients are obese, cure rate of obstructive sleep apnea is not impressive. But replacement therapy is reported to be successful in most patients with obstructive sleep apnea, when they were grossly hypothyroid, generally nonobese and had e.g.reduction of macroglossia and goiter size (10). Obstructive sleep apnea in hypothyroidism seems to be caused by pharynx narrowing due to soft tissue infiltration by mucopolysaccharides and protein (10). Altered regulatory control of pharyngeal dilator mucles due to neuropathy may also be involved. 9.5.6 MUSCULOSKELETAL SYSTEM Muscles. Muscle symptoms like myalgia, muscle weakness, stiffness, cramps and easy fatiguability are very prevalent in hypothyroid patients 23,24 . Weakness in one or more muscles groups is present in 38% as evident from manual muscle strength testing 22 .The symptoms are aggravated by exposure to cold. They are also prominent during the rapid onset of hypothyroidism after surgery or 131I therapy. Impairment of mitochondrial oxidative metabolism provides a biochemical substrate for these complaints, as evident from a rise in the ratio of inorganic phosphate to ATP in resting muscle and an important decrease in phosphocreatine in working hypothyroid muscle with a greater fall in intracellular pH than in controls 1,2 . Transition from fast type II to slow type I muscle fibers is involved in the change of muscle bioenergetics 3 , which is probably multifactorial. One patient with disabling muscle cramps was found to have reduced a-glucosidase activity in a muscle biopsy; after therapy with T4, the symptoms disappeared and the muscle enzyme activity returned to normal 4 . The electromyogram in myxedema may be normal or may demonstrate abnormalities distinct from those seen in myotonia or other muscle disease 5 . Polyphasic action potentials, hyperirritability, repetitive discharge, and low-voltage, short-duration motor unit potentials have been described. In the hypothyroid rat the rate of isometric relaxation is slow, and tension is less than in euthyroid or hypothyroid rat muscle at the same frequency of stimulation. Generalized muscular hypertrophy, accompanied by easy fatigue and slowness of movements, occurs in some cretins and myxedematous children or adults. It has been referred to as the Kocher-Debré-Sémélaigne syndrome in children 6 and as Hoffmann's syndrome in adults 7 . These patients do not have the classic
