Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


children or adults. It has been referred to as the Kocher-Debré-Sémélaigne syndrome in children 6 and as Hoffmann's syndrome in adults 7 . These patients do not have the classic electromyographic findings of myotonia. The myopathy of hypothyroidism is in some patients associated with weakness even though the muscles are hypertrophied.Chronic hypothyroid myopathy with increased muscular volume rarely cause entrapment syndromes 8 . Reflex contraction and relaxation time is prolonged mainly because of the intrinsic alterations in muscle contractility. Nerve conduction time may also be prolonged. Delayed reflex relaxation is characteristic and has been developed into a diagnostic test of thyroid function 9 . As with many other peripheral tissue function tests, there is considerable overlap between normal and mildly hypothyroid ranges. The rate-limiting step in muscle relaxation is the reuptake of calcium by the sarcoplasmic reticulum. In skeletal muscle, this process is dependent on the content of calcium ATPase. Recent studies have indicated that calcium ATPase activity of the fast twitch variety (SERCA-1) is markedly reduced in hypothyroidism 10 , and there is an accompanying impairment of calcium reuptake as a consequence. This occurs at a transcriptional level, since thyroid hormone response elements have been identified in the 5' flanking region of the SERCA-1 calcium ATPase gene 11 . The reduction in calcium ATPase would appear to explain one of the most obvious clinical manifestations of hypothyroidism, namely, delayed relaxation of the deep tendon reflexes. Skeletal muscle type 2 deiodinase activity is low and not influenced by hypothyroidism (25). Table 9-7 Manifestations of hypothyroidism in the musculoskeletal system. View in own window Clinical Symptoms and Signs• Myalgia, muscle weakness, stiffness, cramps, fatigue• Delayed reflex relaxation (e.g. prolonged Achilles tendon reflex relaxation time)• Arthralgias, joint stiffness, joint effusions• Carpal tunnel syndrome• Delayed linear bone growth in children Laboratory• Normal ionized calcium, phosphate, and bone density• Increased serum PTH and 1,25 (OH) 2 -vitamin D 3, normal 25-OH vitamin D 3 • Reduced urine calcium, hydroxyproline, serum alkaline phosphatase, osteocalcin, and IGF-1• Epiphyseal dysgenesis or delayed ossification in children Joints. At the clinical level, patients with hypothyroidism may present with many manifestations, suggesting rheumatic disease such as arthralgias, joint stiffness, effusions, and carpal tunnel syndrome 12,13 . On the other hand, the symptoms may also suggest polymyalgia rheumatica, or primary myositis. The similarity of the symptoms of hypothyroidism to those of rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis, especially when these are combined with
