Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


the symptoms may also suggest polymyalgia rheumatica, or primary myositis. The similarity of the symptoms of hypothyroidism to those of rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis, especially when these are combined with the paresthesias of more severe hypothyroidism, should automatically lead to a consideration of hypothyroidism in any patient presenting with these symptoms. For example, in 5 to 10 percent of patients with carpal tunnel syndrome, primary hypothyroidism may be the cause, due to the accumulation of the hygroscopic glycosaminoglycan in the interstitial space with compression of the median nerve. Bones. While calcium, phosphate, and bone density are generally normal in hypothyroidism, there is evidence of reduced bone turnover and resistance to the action of parathyroid hormone (PTH) 14-21 . Thus, serum (PTH) levels are elevated 16 . This is presumably the cause of the elevation in 1,25(OH)2-vitamin D3 19 . 25-OH-vitamin D3 levels are normal. The increase in PTH and vitamin D in turn increases calcium absorption. The reduction in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and reduced bone turnover reduce urinary calcium and hydroxyproline levels and cause subnormal alkaline phosphatase, osteocalcin, and IGF-1 levels 15 . The alkaline phosphatase reduction is particularly important in children, in whom this enzyme is normally elevated due to bone growth. In children delayed linear growth or short stature are well-recognized signs suggesting the possibility of hypothyroidism. In addition, it is well recognized that epiphyseal dysgenesis and the delayed appearance of calcification centers are characteristic of hypothyroidism in infants and children. This subject is discussed in greater detail in Chapter 15 . Hypothyroidism is associated with enhanced susceptibility to fractures 26,27 . 9.5.7 GASTROINTESTINAL SYSTEM The symptoms from the digestive system are essentially the expression of the slow rate at which the living machinery is turning over. Anorexia, which is common, can reasonably be interpreted as the reflection of a lowered food requirement, and constipation, which is frequently present, is the result of a lowered food intake and decreased peristaltic activity. Although two-third of patients have reported weight gain, it is of modest degree and due largely to the accumulation of fluid rather than fat. Contrary to popular belief, obesity is decidedly not a feature of hypothyroidism. Complete achlorhydria occurs in more than half of myxedematous patients 1 . As many as 25 percent of patients with myxedema, like those with Hashimoto's thyroiditis, have circulating antibodies directed against the gastric parietal cells. This finding explains, at least
