Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


1 . As many as 25 percent of patients with myxedema, like those with Hashimoto's thyroiditis, have circulating antibodies directed against the gastric parietal cells. This finding explains, at least in part, the frequency of achlorhydria and impaired absorption of vitamin B12. It is reported that up to 14 percent of patients with idiopathic myxedema have coincident pernicious anemia 2 . Dysphagia or heartburn may be due to disordered esophageal motility 3 . Dyspepsia, nausea or vomiting may be due to delayed gastric emptying. Abdominal discomfort, flatulence and bloating occur in patients with small intestinal bacterial overgrowth: its prevalence (as demonstrated by a positive hydrogen glucose breath test) in hypothroid patients is rather high (54% vs 5% in a control group) (4). Bacterial overgrowth decontamination (by treatment with 1200 mg rifaximin each day for a week) is associated with improved gastrointestinal manifestations. Intestinal transit time is prolonged (5). Constipation may result from diminished motility, with the rare occurrence of fecal impaction. The syndrome of ileus may be seen occasionally 6 , and a megacolon may be evident on radiography 7,8 ; rarely pseudoobstruction develops. Intestinal absorption is slowed. Galactose and glucose tolerance curves show a delayed rise to a lower peak than normal and a delayed return to baseline. Xylose absorption is impaired 9 . Myxedematous ascites is rare 10 . Gallbladder motility is decreased, and the gallbladder may appear distended on x-ray examination 11,12 . Symptoms or signs of disturbed liver or exocrine pancreatic function are usually not encountered, but chemical examination may suggest disease. Serum glutamine-oxaloacetic transaminase (GOT), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), and CPK levels are elevated in patients with hypothyroidism 13,15 . The enzymes return to normal over 2 to 4 weeks during treatment. Urinary amylase levels may be increased. CEA levels are also increased and drop with therapy 14 . Serum liver enzyme activities ( alanine aminotransferase ALT and gamma-glutamyltransferase γGT) increase steadily across increasing TSH categories (also with TSH values within the reference range), ranging from mean values of 29 to 41 U/l for ALT and of 36 to 62 U/l for γGT 16 . At TSH levels >10 mU/l, ALT >40 U/l is observed in 24% and γGT >40 U/l in 30%. Table 9-8 Gastrointestinal manifestations of hypothyroidism. View in own window Symptoms anorexia gaseous distention constipation Signs prolonged gastric emptying prolonged intestinal transit time slowed intestinal absorption rarely ileus or ascites gallbladder hypotonia elevated
