Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


manifestations of hypothyroidism. View in own window Symptoms anorexia gaseous distention constipation Signs prolonged gastric emptying prolonged intestinal transit time slowed intestinal absorption rarely ileus or ascites gallbladder hypotonia elevated liver enzymes and CEA 9.5.8 RENAL FUNCTION, WATER AND ELECTROLYTES Hypothyroid patients tend to drink small amounts of water and to have diminished urinary output. Clinical evidence of renal failure is not often found, but laboratory examination may disclose certain departures from normal renal function; serum creatinine is raised by 10-20% , normalizing after L-T4 treatment 1,19,23 . Serum cystatin C is strongly influenced by thyroid function, and it may give erroneous results for assessing renal function in hypothyroid patients 19,23,24 .Because of decreased cardiac output and blood volume, renal blood flow is decreased, but it remains the same percentage of cardiac output. The glomerular filtration rate and effective renal plasma flow are decreased, but the filtration fraction is normal or variably altered 2,3,4 ,25 . Hyponatremia sometimes occurs 26,27 .The response to water loading is variable. Moses et al. 5 reported that deficient diuresis after water loading is a sign of pituitary myxedema, but others, notably Crispell and co-workers 6 have found that severe primary myxedema may be associated with a delayed excretion that is not corrected by cortisone but rather by replacement with thyroid hormone. Perhaps the difference in opinion arised from interpretation of the normal response to water loading. This possibility is suggested by the data of Bleifer et al. 7 , who found a decrease in maximal diuresis in some patients with primary myxedema to below the normal lower limit of urine flow (3 ml/min), but not down to the 1 to 3 ml/min seen in panhypopituitarisn. The role of the antidiuretic hormone vasopressin (AVP) and of solute excretion in producing the decreased response to water loading was unknown. The defect was usually attributed to a decreased glomerular filtration rate, but in some patients inappropriately high levels of serum vasopressin have been demonstrated 8-12 . Since urinary hydroxycorticoid excretion is decreased, the adrenals might be incriminated as responsible for delayed water excretion. Other evidence, however, suggests (see below) that the tissue supply of adrenal cortical hormones is usually normal in myxedema. The diminished free water clearance in hypothyroidism occurs irrespective of the presence of hyponatremia. The inappropriate antiduresis in hypothyroidism was thus not fully understood, and a pure renal mechanism was hypothesized independent of vasopressin 18
