Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


in hypothyroidism occurs irrespective of the presence of hyponatremia. The inappropriate antiduresis in hypothyroidism was thus not fully understood, and a pure renal mechanism was hypothesized independent of vasopressin 18 . Better understanding has been obtained since the discovery of water channels, the aquaporins. Activation of the vasopressin V2 receptor on the basolateral membrane of the principal cells of the collecting ducts in the kidney by vasopressin (AVP) leads to upregulation of aquaporin-2 (AQP2). It involves shuttling the AQP2 containing vesicles from the cytoplasm to the apical membrane, leading to fast water transport across the bilipid apical membrane (20). Patients with advanced primary hypothyroidism may be hyponatriemic and fail to suppress plasma AVP with an acute water load. Advanced hypothyroidism is associated with a decrease in blood pressure, which is expected to activate baroreceptor-mediated non-osmotic AVP release, and indeed this is the case. In a rat model of hypothyroidism the increase in plasma AVP was associated with upregulation of AQP2 (21). A V2 receptor antagonist reverses the increased AQP2 and the impaired response to an acute water load. In contrast to diuretics, which enhance water and electrolyte excretion, the V2 receptor antagonists (vaptans) increase electrolyte-free water excretion.So far, the use of vaptans in severely hypothyroid patients with hyponatremia has not been reported 28 . Occasionally, minimal proteinuria is seen. This condition could be due to congestive heart failure or to the increased capillary transudation of protein typical of hypothyroidism. The total body sodium content is increased. The excessive sodium is presumably bound to extracellular mucopolysaccharides. In spite of reduced renal blood flow and blood volume, the sodium retention is probably not a reflection of altered renal function. In fact, salt loads are usually excreted readily and serum sodium concentrations tend to be low 13 , in contrast to other clinical situations associated with sodium retention, such as congestive heart failure 8 . The dilutional syndrome may be a result of inappropriate secretion of AVP 9-12 , but not in all patients. Thus, the dilutional syndrome in severe myxedema may be due to a resetting of the osmolar receptor, which causes water to be retained at a lower level of plasma osmotic pressure. The various changes in renal function may not return to normal at the same rate after treatment. Weight loss after therapy of hypothyroidism is mainly caused by excretion of excess body water associated with myxoedema 29 . The
