Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


return to normal at the same rate after treatment. Weight loss after therapy of hypothyroidism is mainly caused by excretion of excess body water associated with myxoedema 29 . The serum uric acid level is elevated in hypothyroid men and postmenopausal women, apparently as a consequence of a decrease in renal blood flow characteristic of the disease 14 . No consistent changes in plasma potassium levels have been reported. Total magnesium levels may be elevated and the bound fraction and urinary excretion are reduced 15 . A modest hypocalcemia has been observed in some patients. The significance of low ANF concentrations in hypothyroidism is presently unclear 16 Plasma homocysteine concentrations are increased in hypothyroidism, related to lower folate levels and a lower creatinine clearance in thyroid hormone deficiency; restoration of the euthyroid state decreases plasma homocysteine levels into the normal range 1,17 . In summary, the effects of hypothyroidism on the kidneys are: decreased glomerular filtration rate, decreased renal plasma flow, decreased sodium reabsorption, decreased renal ability to dilute urine, leading to increased serum creatinine and hyponatremia (22). 9.5.9 REPRODUCTIVE FUNCTION Male gonads and reproduction 36 Alterations in androgens associated with hypothyroidism are rather complex and are due to the consequences of thyroid hormone deprivation on the production, serum transport and metabolic pathways of these steroids. Primary hypothyroidism results in a decrease in sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) and thereby in total testosterone concentrations in serum; free testosterone is either normal or reduced (in approximately 60% of hypothyroid males) 1 . Serum estradiol is normal, but dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), DHEA sulfate, androstenediol and pregnenolone sulfate are decreased in serum of hypothyroid men compared with controls 2 . The metabolic clearance rate of androgens is decreased, and the conversion ratio of testosterone to androstenedione is reduced 3,4,5 . Serum LH and FSH are normal, but the LH and FSH response to GnRH is impaired. The testicles are histologically immature if hypothyroidism preceded puberty and show tubular involution if onset was after puberty 6 . In children, precocious testicular enlargement with early seminiferous tubular maturation has been reported 7 . This abnormality promptly subsides with the correction of the hypothyroid state, and is explained by spillover of the action of TRH on gonadotropes and of TSH on FSH receptors 8,9 . Libido in men may be decreased, and some men may be impotent. In one study among 14 adult hypothyroid males, a high
