Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


and of TSH on FSH receptors 8,9 . Libido in men may be decreased, and some men may be impotent. In one study among 14 adult hypothyroid males, a high prevalence was observed of hypoactive sexual desire, delayed ejaculation, and erectile dysfunction; there was significant improvement on L-T4 therapy 10 . In another study 84% of 44 hypothyroid patients had a score of 21 or less on the Sexual Health Inventory for Males (SHIM), compared with only 34% of 71 controls; L-T4 treatment increased SHIM scores and restored normal erectile function 11 . Little is known about the effects of hypothyroidism on human spermatogenesis and fertility. In one study reinduction of hypothyroidism did not lead to seminal changes, when compared with the same patients in the euthyroid state (12). In another small study it was reported that L-T4 treatment was associated with some improvement in sperm count and motility (13). More recently, male spermatogenesis was prospectively investigated in 25 hypothyroid men before and after L-T4 treatment by semen analysis, fructose and acid phosphatase measurements, teratozoospermia index, and acridine orange test (14). It was concluded that hypothyroidism had an adverse effect on human spermatogenesis, with sperm morphology the only parameter that was significantly affected. Female gonads and reproduction 36 In hypothyroid women SHBG is decreased and thereby also total serum estradiol, estrone, and testosterone, but free estradiol and free testosterone are normal 1,15 . Metabolic clearance rate of estrogens is reduced, and peripheral aromatization and conversion of testosterone to Δ4-androstenedione are increased. LH and FSH are normal, but their responses to GnRH can be blunted or delayed. In children, hypothyroidism sometimes induces precocious puberty with menstruation and breast development 16 . These abnormalities disappear with correction of the hypothyroid state, and are explained by spillover of the action of TRH on gonadotropes and of TSH on FSH receptors 8,9 . The endometrium in premenopausal women is typically proliferative or, less common, atrophic. The proliferative endometrium and low urinary pregnanetriol levels suggest failure of LH production and of ovulation (17). Indeed the pulsatile gonadotropin release in the follicular phase is normal, but the ovulatory surge may not happen 18 . In adult premenopausal hypothyroid women, 77% have regular cycles and 23% irregular periods; corresponding figures in controls are 92% and 8% respectively 19 . Oligomenorrhea and hypermenorrhea/menorrhagia are the most common menstrual disturbances. Menorrhagia is probably due to estrogen breakthrough bleeding secondary
