Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


periods; corresponding figures in controls are 92% and 8% respectively 19 . Oligomenorrhea and hypermenorrhea/menorrhagia are the most common menstrual disturbances. Menorrhagia is probably due to estrogen breakthrough bleeding secondary to anovulation. Defects in hemostasis factors (see section 9.5.9.11) that occur in hypothyroidism may also contribute. Menstrual disturbances tend to be more severe in women with more severe hypothyroidism. Hypomenorrhea and amenorrhea are less common, at variance with the common belief that amenorrhea is the most frequent symptom. The lower frequency of menstrual abnormalities reported in more recent studies, compared with the older ones, may be attributed to delayed diagnosis and thereby more severe hypothyroidism in the earlier studies 20,21,22,23 .The amenorrhea-galactorrhea syndrome is occasionally found in adult hypothyroid women due to hyperprolactinemia; it is reversible with L-T4 treatment 24 . Although infertility may be a problem in either sex, the literature contains many reports of pregnancy in untreated myxoedematoous women 25,26 with frequent successful outcomes 27 . Studies examining the incidence of infertility in hypothyroid patients are scarce. No prospective controlled studies are available, whereas studies on the prevalence of hypothyroidism in patients presenting at specialized infertility clinics are subject to large selection bias. One study detected primary and secondary infertility in one (6.2%) of 16 overtly hypothyroid women, a frequency comparable to that found in control women 23 . Among 704 infertile women without previous thyroid disorders, 2.3% had increased serum TSH levels, comparable to that found in the general female population of reproductive age 28 . Nevertheless, a recent study shows that serum TSH levels are a significant predictor of fertilization failure in women undergoing in vitro fertilization 29 . Thus, although there is a known association between hypothyroidism and decreased fertility, hypothyroidism does not preclude the possibility to conceive. A particular study reports that 34% of hypothyroid women became pregnant without treatment: 11% of them had overt and 89% subclinical hypothyroidism 30 . Pregnancy. When treatment has been started during pregnancy, more often than not a normal child is produced. Nevertheless, untreated hypothyroidism is associated with adverse outcomes for mother and child, as evident from many studies 31.32.33.34 . A critical review of all pertinent studies on the diagnosis and management of thyroid diseases during pregnancy and postpartum have been published in recently updated guidelines 35,37,38 . In short, when hypothyroid women become pregnant and maintain the pregnancy, they carry an increased risk for early and
