Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


and postpartum have been published in recently updated guidelines 35,37,38 . In short, when hypothyroid women become pregnant and maintain the pregnancy, they carry an increased risk for early and late obstetrical complications, such as increased prevalence of abortion, anemia, gestational hypertension, placental abruption, and postpartum hemorrhages. These complications are more frequent with overt than with subclinical hypothyroidism and, most importantly, adequate thyroxine treatment greatly decreases the risk of a poorer obstetrical outcome. Untreated maternal overt hypothyroidism is associated with adverse neonatal outcomes including premature birth, low birth weight, and neonatal respiratory distress. Though less frequent than with overt hypothyroidism, complications have also been described in newborns from mothers with subclinical hypothyroidism. Last but not least, there appears to be a significant increased risk of impairment in neuropsychological developmental indices, IQ scores, and school learning abilities in the offspring of hypothyroid mothers. The subject is more fully discussed in chapter 14 on Thyroid Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient. 9.5.10 ENDOCRINE SYSTEM Anterior pituitary. Thyrotroph hyperplasia caused by primary hypothyroidism may result in sellar enlargement, particularly when the condition has remained untreated for a long period of time 1,2 . Rarely, such hyperplasia may give rise to a pituitary macroadenoma that shrinks after thyroxine replacement 3,4 . The serum prolactin concentration is elevated in approximately one-third of patients with primary hypothyroidism 5 . The hyperprolactinemia is modest in degree and is rarely associated with galactorrhea 6 ,39 . When present, it subsides with thyroid hormone replacement in conjunction with the reduction in the serum prolactin level. Since thyroid hormone decreases the mRNA for pre-pro TRH in the paraventricular nuclei, it is conceivable that hypothyroidism leads to increased TRH secretion with consequent hyperprolactinemia. The growth hormone response to insulin-induced hypoglycemia is blunted in hypothyroidism 7 . Growth hormone secretion is decreased in hypothyroidism related to an increase in hypothalamic somatostatinergic tone 8 , resulting in low serum IGF-1 concentrations 9 . It may cause growth retardation in hypothyroid children. Serum IGF-2, IGFBP-1 and IGFBP-3 also fall, whereas IGFBP-2 rises; these changes are reversible upon treatment 10 . Another study reports slightly different results: IGF-1 and IGFBP-3 in hypothyroid patients indeed were lower than in healthy volunteers but did not change upon replacement therapy with levothyroxine, whereas the raised levels of IGFBP-1 in hypothyroidism decreased significantly after therapy 36 . The latest study on this issue reports substantial increases of serum IGF-1, IGFBP-3
