Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


therapy with levothyroxine, whereas the raised levels of IGFBP-1 in hypothyroidism decreased significantly after therapy 36 . The latest study on this issue reports substantial increases of serum IGF-1, IGFBP-3 and the acid-labile subunit (ALS) after L-T4 replacement in primary hypothyroidism (37). In patients with spontaneous autoimmune hypothyroidism due to Hashimoto’s thyroiditis who are adequately treated with levothyroxine, the distribution of IGF-I serum concentrations is similar to that of controls (38). Hashimoto’s thyroiditis can be associated with lymphocytic hypophysitis, which may cause growth hormone deficiency. The prevalence of GH deficiency in Hashimoto patients is low, in the order of 0.4% (38). Adrenal cortex. Adrenal steroid hormone production and metabolism are considerably affected. Serum cortisol levels are normal, but the turnover time is slowed. This slowing is principally due to a decrease in the rate of cortisol oxidation as a result of reduced 11-β -hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activity 11 . Conjugation with glucuronic acid in the liver is normal 12 . Reflecting these alterations, urinary 17-hydroxycorticoid (as well as 17-ketosteroid) excretion is reduced 11 , 13 . The turnover rate of aldosterone is also decreased in hypothyroidism 11 . This reduction is probably due to an alteration in steroid reductases that tends to diminish the proportion of androsterone formed and reciprocally increases the level of the etiocholanolone metabolite 14 . The serum concentration of aldosterone is low or normal 15 . Renin activity is also often reduced, as is the sensitivity to angiotensin II 16 . Adrenal responsiveness to adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) may be reduced, or the response may be delayed until the second and third days of the standard ACTH test, with an actual augmentation of the total response 17 . The adrenal glands often atrophy. Pituitary responsiveness to the metyrapone test has been variable. Normal but delayed peak response 18 , impaired response 19 , or even lack of response 19 has been reported. Grossly impaired responses to the stimulation with lysine-8-vasopressin and a delayed increase in serum cortisol levels after insulin-induced hypoglycemia have also been observed 20,21,22 . A general picture of adrenal function in the hypothyroid patient who is not under stress seems clear. Adrenal steroid metabolism and production decrease. The decreased production is accomplished automatically by the pituitary through decreased ACTH secretion. The result is a normal concentration of free cortisol in the serum. Presumably, sufficient hormone is produced for the reduced needs of the hypothyroid subject.
