Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


pituitary through decreased ACTH secretion. The result is a normal concentration of free cortisol in the serum. Presumably, sufficient hormone is produced for the reduced needs of the hypothyroid subject. Whether steroid production can be augmented sufficiently in times of stress is not clear, but the provocative test results suggest that these patients usually have a mildly impaired hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal axis 23,24 . The specific association of primary autoimmune hypothyroidism and primary autoimmune adrenal insufficiency is called Schmidt’s syndrome (25). It may be part of polyglandular autoimmune syndromes (26,27). Untreated primary adrenal insufficiency may slightly increase serum TSH, which returns to normal upon glucocorticoid replacement (28). Sympathoadrenal system. The plasma concentration of norepinephrine in hypothyroid humans is elevated and returns to normal with L-T4 treatment (29,30). The epinephrine concentration is normal. Excretion of catecholamines in the urine is normal, but a decrease in urinary dopamine excretion has been described (31). The circulatory response to injected epinephrine decreases in hypothyroidism but returns rapidly to normal after small doses of levothyroxine (32,33,34). The increased central sympathetic output seems to be compensatory to a reduced response to catecholamines in target tissues (35). Mechanisms involved include a decreased number of β1-adrenergic receptors in the heart. The physiological and clinical implications of the interactions between the sympathoadrenal system (including the sympathetic nervous system and the adrenal medulla) and thyroid hormones have been reviewed, with specific attention of its value in cold adaptation and in states needing high-energy output 40 . Adipose tissue: see § 9.5.1. Gonads: see § 9.5.9. Parathyroid glands: see § 9.5.6. Posterior Pituitary: see § 9.5.8. 9.5.11 HEMATOPOIETIC SYSTEM Erythrocytes. In hypothyroidism, plasma volume and red blood cell (RBC) mass are both diminished, and blood volume is decreased. Anemia of mild degree is commonly present, and the hemoglobin level may be as low as 8 to 9 g/dl. In two reports on a large series of patients with hypothyroidism from various causes, the incidence of anemia ranged from 32 percent (1) to as high as 84 percent (2). The anemia may be a result of a specific depression of marrow that lacks thyroid hormone (3), or may be due to blood loss from menorrhagia, to decreased absorption because of gastric achlorhydria, to coincident true Addisonian pernicious anemia, to a decreased absorption of vitamin B12 (which has been found to occur in certain patients with myxedema as a result of diminished intrinsic factor),
