Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


coincident true Addisonian pernicious anemia, to a decreased absorption of vitamin B12 (which has been found to occur in certain patients with myxedema as a result of diminished intrinsic factor), or to diminished production of erythropoietin by the kidney. The erythropoietic effect of thyroid hormone is mediated through erythropoietin (4). This substance increases RBC production by stimulating the erythroid differentiation of the bone marrow, and its secretion by the kidney appears to be related to the oxygen tension of the tissue. Anemia caused by hypothyroidism per se may be normocytic or macrocytic and respond to thyroid therapy. If iron deficiency develops from menorrhagia, a hypochromic and microcytic anemia may occur. This condition usually responds to iron alone, but may respond optimally only to combined iron and thyroid hormone (5). Hypothyroidism per se causes diminished blood cell formation probably as a response to decreased oxygen demand (6). Plasma and RBC iron turnover are decreased, and the bone marrow is frequently hypoplastic. The relationship between hypothyroidism and pernicious anemia has been well established. Patients have been reported who developed pernicious anemia while hypothyroid, and who lost their need for parenteral vitamin B12 when hypothyroidism was treated. It is also known that some hypothyroid patients absorb oral vitamin B12 poorly, and the defect is sometimes corrected by intrinsic factor (7,8). After thyroid therapy, the absorption defect may disappear or may persist (8). The incidence of pernicious anemia is higher than normal in myxedematous persons (5,8). In Tudhope and Wilson's series of 73 patients with spontaneous primary hypothyroidism, 12.3 percent had true Addison's anemia that responded to vitamin B12 (8). They believe that macrocytic anemia in hypothyroidism should not be accepted as a manifestation of thyroid hormone lack per se, but that it is due instead to the increased coincidence of Addison's anemia. Half of the patients with Addisonian anemia have serum antibodies against the thyroid gland and half of the patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis have antibodies against gastric cell cytoplasm, parietal cells or intrinsic factor. Megaloblastic anemia due to folic acid deficiency has also been demonstrated in hypothyroidism. Reduced intestinal absorption secondary to hypothyroidism may be responsible for this deficiency, as suggested by the changes observed in a patient given tritiated pteroylglutamate before and after treatment with thyroid hormone (9). Also, a peculiar RBC abnormality has been described in patients with untreated hypothyroidism (10): a small number of irregularly contracted RBCs resembling burr
