Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


and after treatment with thyroid hormone (9). Also, a peculiar RBC abnormality has been described in patients with untreated hypothyroidism (10): a small number of irregularly contracted RBCs resembling burr cells are present. The significance of this condition, which may be reversed by the administration of thyroid hormone, is unknown.The erythrocyte sedimentation rate may be elevated in uncomplicated hypothyroidism 11 . Leucocytes and thrombocytes. Granulocyte, lymphocyte and platelet counts are usually normal in hypothyroidism. Leukopenia might indicate associated vitamin B12 or folic acid deficiency. Hypothyroidism is associated with enhancement of phagocytosis, increased levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and increased expression of pro-inflammatory molecules like interleukin-1β in monocytes and macrophages 20 . Mean platelet volume is positively correlated with serum TSH in healthy subjects and in subclinical hypothyroidism, whereas the increase in overt hypothyroidism was insignificant 21,22,23 . Hemostasis. Hypothyroid patients may have bleeding symptoms such as easy bruising, menorrhagia, or prolonged bleeding after tooth extraction. A systematic review concludes that coagulation tests indicate a hypocoagulable state in overt hypothyroidism (in contrast, hyperthyroidism is associated with a hypercoagulable state, predisposing to thrombosis) (12). Observed defects in general hemostatic tests are prolonged bleeding time, prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time, prolonged prothrombin time, and prolonged clotting time (12,13). Coagulation tests in overt hypothyroidism reveal low or normal factor VIII activity, low von Willebrand factor antigen and activity, low or normal fibrinogen, and low ristocetin induced platelet agglutination (12,14). Fibrinolytic tests in overt hypothyroidism indicate a hyperfibrinolytic condition with reduced TAFIa (activated thrombin-activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor) dependent prolongation of clot-lysis time, despite unaltered TAFI levels (15). Acquired von Willebrand’s syndrome may be the main factor responsible for a bleeding diathesis in overtly hypothyroid patients with a prevalence of 33% (being moderately severe in 9% and mild in 23%) (16,24,25 Even if bleeding episodes are mainly mild and mucocutaneous, blood transfusion, drug administration, or surgical procedure may sometimes be required (16). Desmopressin rapidly reduces these abnormalities (17), and may be of value for the acute treatment of bleeding or as cover for surgery. Usually the clinical relevance of these abnormalities is limited, as illustrated by no excess blood loss or bleeding complications during and after surgery in a large series of hypothyroid patients (18). In patients with moderate hypothyroidism a hypofibrinolytic state has been found, which carries a risk of developing thrombosis (19). However, the concept of a hypercoagulable state in subclinical hypothyroidism is not
