Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


patients with moderate hypothyroidism a hypofibrinolytic state has been found, which carries a risk of developing thrombosis (19). However, the concept of a hypercoagulable state in subclinical hypothyroidism is not supported by a systematic review of the existing literature (12,26,27). 9.6 COURSE OF THE DISEASE Although technologically dated, one of the most charming and clear descriptions of a typical case of myxedema is that given by William M. Ord 1 in Allbutt's System of Medicine, published first in 1897. It is as follows: THE PICTURE OF THE DISEASE "Thirty years ago the writer of this article had occasion to investigate the case of a lady suffering from myxedema in a most definite form, and therefore offering complete opportunity of studying the symptoms and the relations of the disease. The patient, a lady of thirty-five, who had several children, presented an appearance suggestive of Bright's disease, yet, although she was greatly swollen on the whole of her body, on careful examination the swelling did not appear to be due to an ordinary dropsy. There was nowhere any pitting on pressure, and there was no albuminuria in the slightest amount. The diagnosis of chronic Bright's disease without albuminuria at first suggested itself, but on further examination many symptoms not known to be related with Bright's disease came under the eye. The face, very much swollen in all parts, was particularly swollen in the eyelids, upper and lower, in the lips, and in the alae nasi. There was a flush, very limited, over the malar bones, contrasting with a complete pallor over the orbital regions. The eyebrows were greatly raised by the effort to keep the lids apart. The skin of the face, and indeed of the whole body, was completely dry, rough and harsh to the touch; not exactly doughy, but giving a sensation of the loss of all elasticity or resilience. The hair was scanty, had no proper gloss, and was much broken. In the absence of all signs of visceral disease the condition of the nervous system was such as to attract much attention. The physiognomy was singularly placid at most times, less frequently heavy, with signs of somnolence, very rarely alert. In interviews the patient was imperturbably garrulous to a degree that could not fail to attract attention. For many minutes she would talk without cessation until obliged to stop and take a good breath. What she said was
