Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


a degree that could not fail to attract attention. For many minutes she would talk without cessation until obliged to stop and take a good breath. What she said was not altogether relevant, but it had to be said. All interrupting questions were disregarded. If, at the end of a small pause, she was asked to put her tongue, she ignored the request, but at the end of a varying time, when her breath became short, she would put out her tongue for a long time. She dealt in the same way with questions put to her in respect of the points raised by her statements. Her letters were frequent, voluminous, and, as regarded handwriting, very good. Her speech was slow and laboured. There was some difficulty in it, evidently due to the swelling of the lips, but was more than this: the words hung in a way that indicated nervous as well as physical difficulty, and inflexions of the voice were wanting. The tones of the voice were leathery, and suggested rather those of an automaton. The proper timbre was quite lost. Doubtless this was in part, again, due to obvious thickenings in the fauces and the larynx; but it did not in any way resemble the character of voice observed in ordinary swellings of those parts. Her temper was singularly equable, she was the most tender and solicitous of mothers, and in a long course of years during which she was under the writer's observation no word of unkindness or suspicion fell from her lips. Lethargy was an impressive part of her mental condition. Memory was slow, but correct. She thought slowly, performed all movements slowly, and was slow in receiving impressions. Her toilet, and she was no fashionable person, occupied hours. Her household duties could never be overtaken, and she had to seek assistance. Her gait presented a distinct ataxic quality. As her bulky body moved across a room, there occurred at each step forward a quiver running from the legs upwards, such as may be seen in people under the influence of great emotion, as in Lady Macbeth. This appeared to be due to a want of complete concert in the action of the flexors and extensors of the body, the flexors acting for the most part in advance. The interval between the action of the two sets of muscles was at some times extreme enough
