Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


extensors of the body, the flexors acting for the most part in advance. The interval between the action of the two sets of muscles was at some times extreme enough to determine falls, not in any way produced by obstacles. She fell forward on her knees, and, as a result, she sustained fracture of the patella on one side, and the patellar tendon on the other. Similar conditions existing in the head and neck produced excessive distress. From time to time the head would fall forward in spite of all voluntary effort to prevent it. The chin would then rest on the upper part of the sternum, as is seen in cretins. Sometimes by prolonged exertion of the will, sometimes with the assistance of the hands, the head would be raised, not always to good effect; for unless great care were exercised the head would fall backwards with a suddenness that was alarming. There was no obvious defect of the sense of touch, but it must be admitted that the speed of the reception of tactile sensations was not noted. After the establishment of the disease she bore two children; on both occasions severe postpartum haemorrhage occurred. She had no other haemorrhages. The first impression was, as I said above, that the case was one of Bright's disease without albuminuria. The urine was examined regularly for years without detection of albumin, and there were no such changes in the heart and arteries as belong to Bright's disease. After ten years, however, albumin appeared in the urine, and the patient died ultimately with symptoms of contracting granular kidney. A postmortem examination could not be obtained, and therefore the condition of the thyroid gland and of the kidneys cannot be recorded." ONSET OF THE DISEASE The onset of naturally occurring hypothyroidism is insidious. The patient is often unaware of it, as may be friends and relations. As the gland is gradually replaced by fibrous tissue, lymphocytic infiltration, or both, the serum hormone levels and metabolic rate begin slowly to fall. The first symptoms may be a decrease in sweating and dislike of cold. They may be present alone for a period of years before dramatic events occur. One of our patients gave a story of marked hypersensitivity to cold for 12 years, at the end of which time the picture of full-blown myxedema developed. Sometimes the presenting symptom may be a demand
