Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


a story of marked hypersensitivity to cold for 12 years, at the end of which time the picture of full-blown myxedema developed. Sometimes the presenting symptom may be a demand for a warmer room or more clothing. Sometimes a mere decrease in activity due to listlessness, lack of energy, or fatigue, is the first change noted. In other patients, mental dullness or drowsiness may be observed. We have also seen the opposite change, namely, nervousness and irritability, or even peevishness in the exceptional case. Progressive constipation or increase in menstrual flow may occasionally be the first event. So, too, may any of the following: deafness, falling hair, thick speech, dizziness, puffiness of the face, headache, pallor, weight gain, or fatigue. When hypothyroidism occurs more suddenly, as after surgical thyroidectomy or RAI therapy, the symptoms may not be so insidious, and indeed may be quite upsetting to the patient. Musculoskeletal symptoms such as frequent cramps may be distressing, and acute depression or acute anxiety may appear. Thus, the clinical course may be much influenced by the cause of the hypothyroid state. Obvious symptoms and signs usually appear as the thyroxine (T4) level falls below normal. Of these symptoms, nonpitting edema, from which myxedema derives its name, is pathognomonic. It is a specific thyroprival sign, and when it develops, the disease is in the full-blown state. There may be little apparent change in the patient's appearance or condition for several years. During such a period the patient may be well off subjectively. The increased sensitivity to cold can be met by maintaining the living area at an unduly warm temperature. The decreased energy makes the person content to do little or nothing. The myxedematous state is characterized by an amazing placidity. The terminal stage may be called myxedematous cachexia. MYXEDEMATOUS CACHEXIA Myxedematous cachexia is characterized by an intensification of all symptoms and signs. There is great thickening of the tongue, thickness, dryness and coarseness of the skin, thickening and brittleness of the nails, falling and brittleness of the hair, progressive decrease in activity and responsiveness, and a closer and closer approach to a purely vegetative existence. Although the mucous edema persists - and indeed tends to increase - body fat may disappear, so that actual wasting takes place. After this stage has persisted for an indefinite period of months or even years, death takes place because of intercurrent infection, congestive heart failure,
