Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


so that actual wasting takes place. After this stage has persisted for an indefinite period of months or even years, death takes place because of intercurrent infection, congestive heart failure, or both. The final symptom is coma, which may last for days. In the untreated patient, the length of time between the first symptoms and death may be as long as 15 years. It is, fortunately, seldom nowadays that one witnesses the natural termination of the disease. It is seen only when the patient is already moribund when he or she comes to the physician, the diagnosis previously having been overlooked or where severe myxedema is present in association with another serious illness. In the Report on Myxoedema, which was published before the discovery of the cure of the disease, the duration is given as 10 years or more. The evolution of the symptoms of myxedema is slowly progressive. If one compares patients with myxedema of 3, 6 or 12 years' duration, although all may have classic symptoms and identical thyroid function test results, the clinical picture will be more intense at 6 years than at 3 and still more at 12. The mental manifestations, and the integumentary changes in particular, intensify as the years pass. Such severe manifestations of hypothyroidism are rarely seen in the current era. Patients and their friends and relatives are often strangely unaware of evidence of myxedema. Often patients are identified during treatment for some entirely unrelated disorder. Myxedema has been called a "consultant's diagnosis", because the changes that appear as the disease develops are so subtle and gradual that they are often overlooked by the patient's family physician. This fact is becoming less true with the ready availability of objective diagnostic tests. 9.7 DIAGNOSIS OF HYPOTHYROIDISM Evaluation of a patient suspected of hypothyroidism starts with obtaining conclusive evidence that thyroid hormone deficiency is absent or present. Clinical examination suffices to provide a definitive answer in very severe cases of thyroid hormone deficiency, but is less accurate in mild cases. Biochemical proof of thyroid hormone deficiency is thus required in the vast majority of patients. If hypothyroidism is demonstrated, the next question to be answered is which disease entity has caused the hypothyroid state (nosological diagnosis). Delineation of the cause of hypothyroidism is relevant for identification of patients with potentially reversible hypothyroidism; it migh also give a clue for the existence of other conditions associated
