Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


diagnosis). Delineation of the cause of hypothyroidism is relevant for identification of patients with potentially reversible hypothyroidism; it migh also give a clue for the existence of other conditions associated with a specific cause. The diagnostic process is schematically represented in Table 9-9 . Table 9-9 Schematic approach of the patient suspected of hypothyroidism. View in own window Stage 1 Is hypothyroidism present? A. Clinical assessment:B. Biochemical assessment: TSH and FT4 assays Stage 2 If hypothyroidism is present, what is the cause? A. Clinical assessment: history, goiterB. Biochemical assessment: TPO antibodies; sometimes thyroid ultrasound 9.7.1 CLINICAL EVALUATION (STAGE 1A) Table 9-10 lists the relative frequency of symptoms and signs accumulated by Lerman in a study of 77 myxedematous patients in one thyroid clinic and by Murray in a study of 100 patients with primary hypothyroidism, 15 pituitary patients, and 100 normal control subjects. This analysis identifies the cardinal manifestations of the disease. It also discloses that a certain number of manifestations are occasionally found in overt myxedema that are somewhat more suggestive of hyperthyroidism than of hypothyroidism. Under this heading may be listed dyspnea, nervousness, palpitations, precordial pain, loss of weight, and emotional instability. These symptoms are also found in normal control subjects in nearly the same frequency. Many symptoms typical of primary hypothyroidism are not commonly found in pituitary hypothyroidism - for example, coarse skin, thick tongue, coarseness of hair, peripheral edema, hoarseness, and paresthesias. Table 9-10. I ncidence of symptoms and signs in hypothyroidism View in own window Lermans’s Series Murray’s Series Symptoms and Signs : Percent of 77 Cases of Primary Hypothyroidism Percent of 100 Cases of Primary Hypothyroidism Percent of 15 Cases of Pituitary Hypothyroidism Percent of 100 Normal Control Subjects Weakness Dry skin Coarse skin Lethargy Slow speech Edema of eyelids Sensation of cold Decreased sweating Cold skin Thick tongue Edema of face Coarseness of hair Cardiac enlargement (on x-ray film) Pallor of skin Impaired memory Constipation Gain in weight Loss of hair Pallor of lips Dyspea Peripheral edema Hoarseness Anorexia Nervousness Menorrhagia a Deafness Palpitations Poor heart sounds Precordial pain Poor vision Fundus oculi changes Dysmenorrhea Los of Weight Atrophic tongue Emotional instability Choking sensation Fineness of hair Cyanosis Dysphagia Brittle nails Depression Muscle weakness Muscle pain Joint pain Paresthesia Heat intolerance Slow cerebration Slow movements Exophthalmos Sparse eyebrows 99 97 97 91 91 90 89 89 83 82 79 76 6867 66 61
