Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


3-5 points; euthyroid, 2 points. The positive predictive value of this new score for hypothyroidism is 96.9% at a score of 6 points or more; the negative predictive value for the exclusion of hypothyroidism is 94.2% at a score of 2 points or less. 62% of all overt hypothyroid and 24% of subclinical hypothyroid patients are classified as clinically hypothyroid by the new score, as opposed to 42% and 6% respectively by the Billewicz score Figure 9-4 . The diagnostic accuracy of these clinical scores is thus very low. In view of their poor performance, they should not be used for the diagnosis of hypothyroidism 12 . Figure 9-4 Assessment of hypothyroidism by a clinical score, composed of 12 symptoms and signs as listed in Table 3 (Reproduced with persmission(4)). Age and smoking have been recognized as modifiers of the clinical expression of thyroid hormone deficiency. Elderly patients have a smaller number of clinical signs than younger patients 5 . Smokers have more severe manifestations of hypothyroidism than nonsmokers 6 . 9.7.2 LABORATORY EVALUATION (STAGE 1B) The assay of TSH in serum has proven to be the best single test for the exclusion or detection of hypothyroidism 12 . Using the flow-chart of Figure 9-5 the following results can be obtained: Figure 9-5 Flow-diagram for the biochemical diagnosis of hypothyroidism. ( Figure 9-5 ) . Flow-diagram for the biochemical diagnosis of hypothyroidism. 1. TSH normal. Euthyroidism is almost certain, as primary hypothyroidism is excluded. However, two conditions will not be recognized. The first is the existence of central hypothyroidism. As isolated TSH deficiency is very rare, clinical examination of the patient will usually provide sufficient clues (symptoms and signs of a pituitary mass, of hypopituitarism, or of overproduction of pituitary hormones) to warrant further evaluation by a FT4 assay.The second is thyroid hormone resistance due to TRα mutations; this recently discovered and probably rare disease is characterized by low normal to slightyly low FT4 and high normal to slightly high T3 13,14 . 2. TSH elevated, FT4 decreases. This classical combination of test results indicates primary hypothyroidism. Test results are sometimes due to central hypothyroidism or nonthyroidal illness when TSH is slightly elevated (5-15 mU/l). 3. TSH elevated, FT4 normal. Test results indicate most often subclinical hypothyroidism, sometimes nonthyroidal illness. 4. TSH elevated, FT4 increased. A rarely encountered combination of test results, indicating either thyroid hormone resistance due to mutations
