Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


Test results indicate most often subclinical hypothyroidism, sometimes nonthyroidal illness. 4. TSH elevated, FT4 increased. A rarely encountered combination of test results, indicating either thyroid hormone resistance due to mutations in TRβ or TSH producing pituitary adenoma. 5. TSH decreased, FT4 decreased. Central hypothyroidism accounts for these test results, which, however, also can be observed in severe nonthyroidal illness and after recently instituted treatment for thyrotoxicosis (131I, surgery, antithyroid drugs) or recent discontinuation of excessive thyroid hormone medication. 6. TSH decreased, FT4 increased or normal. Hypothyroidism is excluded. Results indicate overt thyrotoxicosis or subclinical hyperthyroidism respectively. The reference interval of serum TSH is about 0.4-4.0 mU/L. However, the lower normal limit is lower in pregnancy, and the upper normal limit increases with advancing age, reaching levels of 6.3 mU/L at the age of ≥80 yr 16. . Serum T3 should not be done for the diagnosis of hypothyroidism 12 . 9.7.3 NOSOLOGICAL DIAGNOSIS (STAGE 2) The cause of the hypothyroid condition is in general easily established. Most informative are a careful clinical examination and determination of TPO antibodies in serum. Particularly relevant questions in the history taking are: family history of thyroid disease? recent delivery? previous thyroid surgery or 131I therapy? use of antithyroid drugs? exposure to iodine excess? Symptoms and signs of a pituitary mass or of hypopituitarism suggest the presence of central hypothyroidism. Physical examination may reveal a goiter (like the characteristic firm rubbery' goiter in goitrous Hashimoto's hypothyroidism), but many if not most hypothyroid patients have no palpable thyroid gland. High titers of TPO antibodies indicate chronic autoimmune thyroiditis, the most prevalent cause of hypothyroidism. Thyroid ultrasound can be helpful: the finding of a non-homogeneous hypoechogenic pattern indicates chronic autoimmune thyroiditis, which may be observed also in the absence of thyroid antibodies in serum 15 . Although most cases of hypothyroidism are permanent and require life-long treatment with thyroxine, a substantial minority is transient in nature due to the natural course of the underlying disease entity. Elimination of the causal factor is possible only in a few patients in whom the hypothyroid state is induced by antithyroid drugs or iodine excess. Table 9-12 provides the physician with possible clues for assessing the likelihood of reversible hypothyroidism in a particular patient. In selected cases further evaluation by thyroidal radioiodine uptake studies might be useful. Table 9-12 Reversible causes of hypothyroidism View in own window Etiology Frequency of reversibility
