Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


a particular patient. In selected cases further evaluation by thyroidal radioiodine uptake studies might be useful. Table 9-12 Reversible causes of hypothyroidism View in own window Etiology Frequency of reversibility Clues for potential reversibility • chronic autoimmune thyroiditis about 5% 7 goiter 8 ; preserved thyroidal radioiodine uptake 9 ; preserved T3 response to TRH during thyroxine treatment 10 • postpartum thyroiditis up to 80% recent delivery; relatively low titers of TPO antibodies • subacute thyroiditis almost 100% recent painful goiter • postoperative and postradioiodinehypothyroidism not unusual thyroidectomy or 131 I therapy in previous 6 months • iodine-induced myxedema high exposure to iodine excess; preserved thyroidal radioiodine uptake 11 • drug-induced hypothyroidism high exposure to antithyroid drugs or goitrogenic chemicals 9.8 TREATMENT OF HYPOTHYROIDISM 9.8.1 PHARMACOLOGY OF THYROID HORMONE REPLACEMENT PREPARATIONS Levothyroxine. L-thyroxine is prescribed as the sodium salt in order to enhance its absorption, which occurs along the entire small intestine 1,2 . Intestinal absorption of oral T4 is on average 80% 3 , and is greater in the fasting than in the fed state. Absorption is apparrently more complete and less eratic if the daily dose is taken in the fasting state 4 . Serum T4 concentrations peak 2 to 4 hours after an oral dose and remain above normal for approximately 6 hours in patients receiving daily replacement therapy 5,6 . The gradual conversion of T4 into T3 in various tissues increases serum T3 concentrations so slowly after thyroxine absorption that with daily levothyroxine administration, no significant changes in circulating free T3 are detectable. In North America, levothyroxine tablets are available in tablet strengths of 25, 50, 75, 88, 100, 112, 125, 137, 150, 175, 200 and 300 µg. The long half-life of thyroxine of about 7 days allows treatment with a singly daily tablet. Omission of an occasional tablet is of little relevance. If a patient misses a pill one day, they may take two the next. If they miss for two days, they may take three the next (7). Generic and brand-name levothyroxine preparations are mostly bioequivalent (8), but altered bioavailability has been reported due to changes in the formulation of preparations (9). Levothyroxine has a narrow therapeutic index with the potential for putting patients at risk for iatrogenic hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism at doses only 25% less or greater than optimal, based on patient’s serum TSH (10). Available data suggest 15-29% of patients receiv.e inadequate
