Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


at risk for iatrogenic hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism at doses only 25% less or greater than optimal, based on patient’s serum TSH (10). Available data suggest 15-29% of patients receiv.e inadequate doses of L-T4 and 18-24% receive excessive doses, based on serum TSH levels outside the reference range (11,12,46). It re-emphasizes the question whether the different marketed L-T4 formulations are mutually exchangeable: this would require bioequivalence between products. The FDA set criteria for testing bioequivalence of levothyroxine sodium tablets (13), and moved to approve generic L-T4 preparations as equivalent to branded preparations. This led to a joint statement by the American Thyroid Association, the Endocrine Society and the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists in which they oppose the stand taken by the FDA (14). For pharmacokinetic studies designed to measure the bioavailability of L-T4 formulations, the FDA recommends that a single dose be administered to healthy subjects at a strength several times the normal therapeutic dose. With correction for the endogenous T4 pool, the method could distinguish the doses that differed by 25% and 33%, but not dosage strenghts that differed by 12.5% (15). The way the FDA proposes to measure the results of small changes in the T4 content of commercial preparations thus seems not very sensitive. Therefore it has been concluded that the type of T4 absorption studies the FDA uses as evidence, as opposed to serum TSH which thyroidologists rely on, is inappropriate (16). According to the FDA definition of bioequivalence, particular test formulations have found to be bioequivalent to the reference formulation of levothyroxine in healthy volunteers (17). However, a pharmacodynamic TSH-measurement bioequivalence protocol, using normal L-T4 replacement dosing in athyreotic volunteers, is likely to be more sensitive and safer than current FDA Guidance based on T4 pharmacokinetics (18). In the meantime the allowable potency range for L-T4 tablets has been tightened to 95-105%, a significant improvement of the original FDA-approved 90-110% range. A study comparing pH-dissolution profiles of selected commercial levothyroxine preparations, shows a considerable decrease in dissolution of L-T4 tablets with increase in pH, with differences in T4 dissolvement between the various preparations (19). Differential dissolution of T4 products can impact oral absorption and bioavailability of L-T4, and may result in bioequivalence problems. A survey among physicians in the USA managing patients with thyroid diseases that required the use of L-T4 preparations, indicated that 177 of 198 reports of adverse events associated with changes in
