Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


among physicians in the USA managing patients with thyroid diseases that required the use of L-T4 preparations, indicated that 177 of 198 reports of adverse events associated with changes in TSH values, were associated with a change in the source of L-T4 (20). The exchanges were done by the patient’s pharmacy without the clinician’s knowledge in 92%. Fifty-four of the 198 reported cases resulted in serious adverse events, and 52 of these 54 cases were associated with a substitution of one L-T4 preparation with another. Against this background it is recommendable to continue to use the same L-T4 preparation once the appropriate L-T4 dose has been established.(27). The pharmacist should inform the clinician if a switch is being made to another L-T4 preparation. Liothyronine. After oral administration of L-triiodothyronine sodium (which is more readily absorbed than T4) peak levels of serum T3 are observed within 2 to 4 hours 21 .The serum T3 concentration may reach elevated values after a single dose of 50 µg or even 25 µg, sometimes associated with cardiac symptoms like palpitations 22 . The half-life of T3 is short (approximately one day) which requires several gifts per day.. Preparations of L-T3 can be useful in the short-term management of patients with thyroid cancer to shorten the period of hypothyroidism required for diagnosis and treatment of remaining tumor tissue with 131I, and in myxedema coma; they are not recommended for long-term replacement therapy in hypothyroidism. Pharmacodynamic equivalence of levothyroxine and liothyronine is achieved at a dose ratio of about 3:1 27 Desiccated thyroid. Desiccated thyroid is prepared from porcine or bovine thyroid glands. In former days desiccated thyroid was standardized by the organic iodine content, which did not distinguish between iodotyrosines and iodothyronines 23 . Current guidelines stipulate that one grain (65 mg) of desiccated thyroid contains about 44 µg T4 and 9 µg of T3; the hormones are in the form of thyroglobulin 24,25 . In our experience, the biologic potency of a 1-grain desiccated thyroid tablet is about 75 to 88 µg T4. Because of the relatively high ratio of T3 to T4 in desiccated thyroid, patients receiving an amount of this medication adequate to normalize serum TSH generally have serum T4 concentrations in the lower half of the normal range. Serum T3 concentrations will vary in such patients, depending on the interval between ingestion of the medication and the time of blood sampling.
