Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


the lower half of the normal range. Serum T3 concentrations will vary in such patients, depending on the interval between ingestion of the medication and the time of blood sampling. The time course of the absorption of T3 is similar whether it is contained in thyroglobulin or free in the tablet, with peak levels approximately 2 to 4 hours after oral administration 21 .A recent randomized clinical trial compared levothyroxine replacement with desiccated thyroid extract (DTE, Armour Thyroid, of which each grain of 65 mg contained 38 μg L-T4 and 9 μg L-T3) 29 .Use of DTE relative to levothyroxine was associated with modest weight loss and greater patient preference; Serum T3 was higher and serum FT4 was lower during treatment with DTE than during levothyroxine treatment. Although DTE can provide satisfactory replacement therapy if TSH levels are maintained in the normal range, it is not recommended in current guidelines for treatment of hypothyroidism 27 . Combinations of T3 and T4. Liotrix, the only combination preparation currently available in the United States, contains 50 µg T4 and 12.5 µg T3/1 grain equivalent, but is biologically equivalent to a 65 mg (1 grain) tablet of desiccated thyroid. Recent studies in thyroidectomized rats have demonstrated that restoration of the euthyroid state in all tissues can only be restored by the combination of T4 and T3, and not by T4 alone 26 . This finding has aroused new interest in combinations of T3 and T4 in hypothyroid patients who are dissatisfied with the outcome of levothyroxine replacement therapy 33-37 (see 9.8.2).However, a meta-analysis of 11 randomized clinical trials found no evidence for superiority of L-T4 + L-T3 combination therapy over levothyroxine monotherapy: bodily pain, depression, anxiety,fatique and quality of life were not different between the two treatment modalities 30 . Some patients nevertheless do prefer combination therapy 31 , and it is hypothesized that particular genetic polymorphisms in thyroid hormone transporters and deiodinases are linked to this preference. Guidelines do not recommend combination therapy, and levothyroxine remains the standard treatment modality for hypothyroidism 27 . In patients with persistent complaints despite adequate levothyroxine replacement as evident from normal serum TSH levels, one may consider a trial of L-T4 + L-T3. This should be offered after exclusion of other conditions which might be responsible for the persistent complaints. Detailed instructions on selection of patients for combination therapy, calculation of levothyroxine and liothyronine doses, and
