Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


offered after exclusion of other conditions which might be responsible for the persistent complaints. Detailed instructions on selection of patients for combination therapy, calculation of levothyroxine and liothyronine doses, and monitoring are given in a recent guideline on this issue by the European Thyroid Association 32 , 9.8.2 REPLACEMENT WITH THYROXINE Of the available thyroid hormone replacement preparations, thyroxine is presently recommended as the drug of choice in view of its long half-life, ready quantitation in the blood, ease of absorption, and the availability of multiple tablet strenghts 1-4 .All guidelines state levothyroxine sodium is the standard treatment of hypothyroidism 51 . Institution of therapy. The rapidity with which normal thyroid hormone levels should be restored depends on a number of factors, including the age of patient, the duration and severity of the hypothyroidism, and the presence or absence of other disorders, particularly those of the cardiovascular system. Most patients under the age of 60 can immediately begin a complete replacement dose of 1.6 to 1.8 µg levothyroxine/kg ideal body weight (about 0.7 to 0.8 µg/1b). Requirements for children and infants are discussed separately and are higher than those for adults between the ages of 20 and 70. A randomized double-blind trial comparing a full starting dose (1.6 μg/kg L-T4) with a low starting dose (25 μg L-T4, increased every 4 weeks) in patients with newly diagnosed cardiac asymptomatic hypothyroidism observed that the full starting dose was safe and more convenient and cost-effective than a low starting dose regimen (47). Preference for gradual levothyroxine replacement and conservative dosage titration is, however, expressed widely (48). The standard advice is to take L-T4 tablets in the morning half an hour before breakfast. Interestingly, L-T4 taken at bedtime is associated with higher FT4 and T3 and lower TSH concentrations in serum compared to the same L-T4 dose taken in the morning, most likely due to better absorption of L-T4 during the night (49). Patients might be adviced to take their L-T4 tablets always either in the morning or in the late evening. Drinking espresso together while ingesting the L-T4 tablets, reduces intestinal absorpton of levothyroxine (50). The cause of hypothyroidism also influences replacement in that patients with total thyroidectomy or severe primary hypothyroidism have slightly higher requirements than do patients who become hypothyroid after radioiodine or surgical treatment for Graves' disease 5 . The latter group may have some residual thyroid function that
