Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


have slightly higher requirements than do patients who become hypothyroid after radioiodine or surgical treatment for Graves' disease 5 . The latter group may have some residual thyroid function that is autonomous, and thus a complete replacement dose is excessive. For most women, a complete replacement dose will be between 100 and 150 µg per day and, for most men, between 125 and 200 µg per day. Pretreatment serum TSH predicts to a certain extent the daily maintenance dose of levothyroxine in patients with primary hypothyroidism ( Figure 9-6 ) 6 . Individual L-T4 requirements are dependent on lean body mass. Age- and gender-related differences in L-T4 needs reflect different proportions of lean mass over the total body weight. An estimate of lean mass may be helpful to shorten the time required to attain a stable dose of L-T4, particularly in subjects with high body mass index values that may be due either to increased muscular mass or obesity (7). Figure 9-6 Relationship between the optimal daily dose of levothyroxine sodium and the mean pretreatment serum TSH concentration in patients with primary hypothyroidism. Simple linear regressions are shown for two subgroups calculated according to the daily dose of L-T4 divided at the median dose of 125 µg; the intercept of these two correlation lines occurs at the TSH concentration of 36 mU/l. (Reproduced with permission) 6 . Full replacement doses should not be administered initially to patients over the age of 60, to patients who have a history of coronary artery disease, or to patients with long-standing severe hypothyroidism. While levothyroxine improves cardiac function in patients with hypothyroidism and increases cardiac output and decreases systemic vascular resistance and end-diastolic volume, it also increases myocardial oxygen consumption. Thus, while patients with coronary artery disease and angina may benefit from reversal of their hypothyroid state, to avoid precipitating acute myocardial ischemia, the dose should be titrated, starting with 25µg a day and increased by increments of 25 µg at 8-week-intervals until serum TSH falls to normal or symptoms of angina worsen or appear. A similar slow approach is prudent in patients with long-standing, severe hypothyroidism, also because occasionally psychosis or agitation occurs during the initial phase of replacement in such cases 8,9,10 . Monitoring. In the patient given what is thought to be a complete replacement dose of levothyroxine, a TSH and free T4 should be measured about 2 months after therapy
