Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


. Monitoring. In the patient given what is thought to be a complete replacement dose of levothyroxine, a TSH and free T4 should be measured about 2 months after therapy begins to establish that the estimated dose is appropriate for the patient. At that time, serum TSH may be still elevated, indicating the need for a modest increase in dose, or TSH may be suppressed, indicating that a reduction is in order. This is usually done in 12.5- to 25-µg increments, depending on the patient 11 . These studies should be repeated again in 2 months to titrate proper dosage. After proper dosage has been achieved, the test should be repeated yet again after the patient has been euthyroid for approximately 6 months. This is because in certain patients, normalization of thyroxine clearance may require more than 8 weeks, and a dose of levothyroxine that is adequate when the patient is metabolizing thyroxine more slowly may be inadequate when the patient is euthyroid. This dose should be continued and monitored on an annual basis. In patients with severe primary hypothyroidism, few adjustments will be required after the initial titration until the eight decade. However, patients with Graves' disease who have had radioactive iodine may require dosage adjustments up to as long as 5 to 10 years after treatment is begun. A similar course may be followed by patients who have had subtotal thyroidectomy for Graves' disease due to the slow deterioration of residual thyroid function. Therapy should be monitored with TSH measurements and estimates of free T4. As the goal of levothyroxine therapy is to normalize the thyroid status of the patient, and as serum TSH provides the most sensitive and readily quantification of thyroid status in the patient with primary hypothyroidism, one aims at TSH values in the low normal range. Serum FT4 concentrations will generally be above the middle of the normal range or slightly elevated if serum TSH concentrations are normalized, but serum T3 concentrations (predominantly derived from T4-5'-monodeiodination) will be in the low or midnormal range 12 . In 1,811 athyreotic patients under levothyroxine replacement, FT4 was higher than the upper normal limit in 7.2%, and FT3 was lower than the lower normal limit in 15.2%; the FT3/FT4 ratio was abnormally low in 29.6% (see Figure 9-7) 52 . Figure 9-7 Frequency distribution curves of serum FT4, FT3 and FT3/FT4 ratio in 1,811 athyreotic patients under
