Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


the FT3/FT4 ratio was abnormally low in 29.6% (see Figure 9-7) 52 . Figure 9-7 Frequency distribution curves of serum FT4, FT3 and FT3/FT4 ratio in 1,811 athyreotic patients under levothyroxine replacement. Shaded areas indicate normal range (2.5 and 97.5 percentiles) as calculated from 3,875 controls, with vertical lines indicating the median (reproduced with permission) 52 . In patients with central hypothyroidism one should rely primarily on serum FT4, aiming at values in the mid-normal range 13,53 . The required replacement dose will frequently suppress serum TSH values to below 0.1 mU/l 14 . Clinical response. In general, serum thyroxine normalizes before serum TSH, and both may normalize before the disappearance of all of the symptoms of hypothyroidism. In the severely hypothyroid patient with long-standing disease, a number of profound alterations may occur as the hypothyroid state is corrected. Thus, loss of weight, primarily due to mobilization of interstitial fluid as the glycosaminoglycans are degraded, is prominent. The moon facies, coarse nasal voice, puffy fingers, deafness, and sleep apnea will all diminish. Many of nonspecific symptoms, such as fatigue or cold intolerance, will eventually reverse as well. Hair and skin abnormalities take longer to improve. Despite weight loss due to fluid loss, the obese patient should not expect more than a 10-pound weight change, particularly if serum TSH values are only modestly elevated. Virtually all of the weight loss in hypothyroidism is associated with mobilization of fluid, and significant decreases in body fat rarely occur. 54 While metabolic rate increases, in general, appetite increases as well, and a new equilibrium is established. Treatment failures. There are few compliant patients whose symptoms and signs do not resolve after thyroid hormone administration. Patients with thyroid hormone resistance sometimes present in this fashion. In patients whose symptoms do not improve with levothyroxine therapy, one should establish that they are taking and absorbing the medication and that it is effective in reducing TSH. The most common cause of treatment failure is poor compliance with ingestion of thyroxine tablets.Non-adherence to treatment can be assessed by a thyroxine absorption test 55 . Compliance might be enhanced by the (supervised) administration of thyroxine once weekly 14 . A slightly larger dose than 7 times the normal daily dose may be required; a singly weekly gift of 1000 µg T4 orally seems to be effective and well tolerated. Dissatisfaction with treatment outcome Whereas the vast majority of hypothyroid
