Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


dose may be required; a singly weekly gift of 1000 µg T4 orally seems to be effective and well tolerated. Dissatisfaction with treatment outcome Whereas the vast majority of hypothyroid patients are satisfied with T4 replacement therapy, some are not. A Dutch study reports impaired cognitive functioning in T4 replaced hypothyroid patients relative to a reference population, as evident from worse scores on tests of cognitive motor speed, attention span, and learning and memory tasks (15). An English study reports a higher proportion of distressed subjects in T4-replaced hypothyroid patients than in controls, as evident from general health questionnaires (32.3 vs 25.6%) and thyroid symptom questionnaires (46.8 vs 35.0%)(p<0.01 after correction for age, sex, chronic diseases and chronic medication)(16). The significant difference with controls remained when only hypothyroid patients with TSH values between 0.4 and 4.0 mU/L were analyzed. Subtracting the proportion of distressed subjects in controls from that in the T4-replaced hypothyroid patients leaves us with an excess of 10% of distressed subjects among T4-replaced patients. How can we explain the dissatisfaction, assuming associated autoimmune diseases have been ruled out? It could be that simply being aware of having a chronic disease requiring lifelong treatment and regular control visits makes the patients feel unhappy and less healthy. A more specific explanation would be that L-T4 replacement therapy fails to mimic precisely the thyroidal secretion rates of T4 and T3 and the serum FT4 and FT3 concentrations of healthy subjects (17). A combination of L-T4 and L-T3 replacement therapy might reflect better physiological conditions. A number of randomized clinical trials ( RCTs) comparing T4 monotherapy with T4/T3 combination therapy have been performed to clarify this issue, also provoked by animal data indicating that restoration of the euthyroid state in all tissues of thyroidectomized rats is accomplished only by the combination of T4 and T3, and not by T4 alone. However, a meta-analysis published in 2006 of 11 randomized controlled trials with in total 1216 patients concluded that T4/T3 combination therapy used as replacement therapy for hypothyroid patients provided no advantage when compared with standard T4 monotherapy (18). Despite the outcome of the meta-analysis, the issue of potential benefit of T4/T3 combination therapy cannot be considered as closed in view of further developments: 1. A re-appraisal of the RCTs. The RCTs in the meta-analysis are heterogeneous with respect to the cause of hypothyroidism (thyroidectomy for thyroid cancer, 131I therapy for Graves’
