Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


to all previous RCTs except two early biased ones (17) and one in which the beneft at 3 months was lost at 12 months (22). In this recent RCT when asking the patients themselves, 49% preferred combination therapy, 15% preferred monotherapy, and 36% had no preference (19). That 15% felt better in the period in which the same T4 dose was used as before entering the study, indicates a strong Hawthorne effect also observed in a previous study (23): patients feel better just by participating in a trial. If true, what might explain the preference for combination treatment? It could be loss of body weight: patients at the end of the combination therapy were on average 1.7 kg lighter than after monotherapy (19), and a similar loss of 1.7 kg was observed during combination therapy in another RCT in which patients also preferred the combination (23). In summary, each of the RCTs can be criticized and none is perfect. But these trials are very demanding to perform. If still further RCTs are required (17), special attention should be given to sample size calculation, T4 to T3 ratio’s in combination therapy, and dynamic monitoring of TSH in order to maintain a normal level by adjusting study medications if needed (24). 2. Over- or under-treatment in T4 monotherapy . Serum T3 levels during T4 treatment are mostly in the normal range, but the median is lower than in controls and 15.2% are below the lower normal limit (see figure 9.7) 52 .It is thus obvious that the capacity to generate T3 from exogenous levothyroxine is insufficient in many patients.Serum T3 concentrations similar to those prior to the development of hypothyroidism can be obtained according to a study in euthyroid patients before total thyroidectomy and after surgery when the patients were fully replaced with T4 (25). Nevertheless, the concentration ratio’s of FT4 to FT3 will still be nonphysiological, which may affect deiodinase activity and nuclear T3 receptor occupancy in target tissues. Another study with a double-blind randomized cross-over design investigated T4-replaced patients who were asked to continue with their usual T4 dose, or take 25 μg less or more (26). Mean T4 doses in each of the 6-week study periods were 100, 125 and 150 μg daily. It resulted in expected changes in serum FT4, TSH and cholesterol, but no changes were observed in scores of well-being, cognitive function, and quality-of-life and thyroid
