Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


and 150 μg daily. It resulted in expected changes in serum FT4, TSH and cholesterol, but no changes were observed in scores of well-being, cognitive function, and quality-of-life and thyroid symptom questionnaires. It is thus unlikely that slight over- or under-treatment with levothyroxine provides a reasonable explabation for continuous dissatisfaction with T4 monotherapy.It appears more likely that the modality of levothyroxine replacement itself is involved (see 9.8.1). 3. Mode of T3 administration . During T4/T3 combination therapy, the T3 dose is given once or twice daily. It results in wide peak-to-trough variation in serum FT3, e.g FT3 increased by 42% in the first 4 h after T3 but did not change after T4 (27). A slow-release formula of T3 might circumvent the marked changes in serum FT3, and proof of principle of such a preparation has been obtained in a recent study (in which the serum FT4 to FT3 ratio was lower during T4 + slow-release T3 than during T4 monotherapy, but still higher than in controls)(28). Serum FT3 has –in contrast to FT4- a circadian rhythm: the FT3 acrophase occurs in early morning hours around 0300 h, about 90 minutes after the TSH acrophase (29). If one’s goal is to replicate the circadian T3 rhythm and to maintain a physiological ratio of serum FT4 to FT3 throughout 24 h in hypothyroid patients, replacement should provide constant FT4 levels and an early morning rise in serum FT3. This goal possibly can be reached by the administration of levothyroxine once daily in combination with a single nighttime dosing of a sustained-release T3 preparation. 4. Gene polymorphisms. Genetic polymorphisms in deiodinases and thyroid hormone transporters may not only affect serum thyroid hormone concentrations but also the biological availability of thyroid hormone in particular tissues (30). Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the gene encoding for deiodinase type 1 influence the serum FT4 to FT3 ratio, but do not have any association with psychological well-being in patients on thyroid hormone replacement (31,32). An early report did not find an association between the Thr92Ala polymorphism in the deiodinase type 2 gene and well-being, neurocognition or preference for T4/T3 combination therapy (33), but a study with a much larger sample size observed associations between the CC genotype of the D2 Thr92Ala polymorphism and worse baseline scores for general health and greater improvement on T4/T3 combination therapy (32). Lastly, several polymorphisms in the brain-specific thyroid hormone transporter
