Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


genotype of the D2 Thr92Ala polymorphism and worse baseline scores for general health and greater improvement on T4/T3 combination therapy (32). Lastly, several polymorphisms in the brain-specific thyroid hormone transporter OATP1C1 are associated with fatigue and depression in hypothyroid patients on levothyroxine, but not with neurocognitive functioning or preference for combination therapy (34). Taken together, it might well be that hypothyroid patients dissatisfied with levothyroxine monotherapy are frequent carriers of these polymorphisms, and might have a better response to T4/T3 combination therapy (17,35).One could envisage RCTs restricted to patients who are carriers of such polymorphisms. Potential adverse effects of treatment. Life-long treatment with thyroxine when properly monitored with annual assessments, seems to be free of complications. Long-term morbidity and mortality have reported to be normal 1-4 . Thyroxine treatment in TSH-suppressive doses, however, might give reason for some concern as it has been associated with detrimental effects on the heart and the bones. A TSH value of <0.1 mU/l has been identified as a risk factor for the development of atrial fibrillation 36 . Long-term levothyroxine therapy in TSH-suppressive doses may cause left ventricular hypertrophy 37 and increases the risk of ischemic heart disease in patients under the age of 65 years 38 . TSH-suppressive doses of levothyroxine have been associated with bone loss in some but not all studies. A recent extensive meta-analysis concluded that indeed bone mineral density was reduced in hypothyroid patients with a suppressed TSH due to excessive levothyroxine therapy, but only in postmenopausal women 39 . No or a minimal excess of bone fractures, however, has been observed in patients on levothyroxine even if TSH is suppressed 40,41,42,43,,44 A recent population-based study of all patients in Tayside, Scotland taking L-T4 replacement therapy (n = 17,684) considered fatal and nonfatal endpoints for cardiovascular disease, dysrhythmias, and fractures (45). Patients were categorized as having a suppressed TSH (≤ 0.03 mU/L), low TSH (0.04-0.4 mU/L), normal TSH (0.4-4.0 mU/L), or raised TSH (>4.0 mU/L). Cardiovascular disease, dysrhythmias, and fractures were increased in patients with a high TSH (adjusted hazards ratio 1.95, 1.80, and 1.83 respectively) and in patients with a suppressed TSH (1.37, 1.6, and 2.02 respectively) when compared to patients with a TSH in the laboratory reference range. Patients with a low TSH did not have an increased risk of any of these outcomes. Thus it may be safe for patients treated with T4 to have a
