Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


range. Patients with a low TSH did not have an increased risk of any of these outcomes. Thus it may be safe for patients treated with T4 to have a low but not suppressed serum TSH. 9.8.3 SITUATIONS REQUIRING DOSE ADJUSTMENT Table 9-13 lists a number of circumstances in which dosage requirements of levothyroxine may change in compliant patients. Nonspecific absorption of L-T4 by dietary fibers decreases the bioavailability of T4 and necessitates a higher dose of L-T4 in patients with high intake of dietary fiber (whole-wheat bread, granola, bran) (1). A similar phenomenon may operate with the use of soy protein supplement (2).The timing of the L-T4 dose should be adjusted to take this into account. The association between dietary fiber and levothyroxine malabsorption could not be reproduced in healthy volunteers taking calcium polycarbophil or psyllium (3). Patients with impaired gastric acid secretion require a 22% to 34% higher than usual dose of L-T4 to suppress serum TSH (4), suggesting that normal gastric acid secretion is necessary for effective absorption of L-T4. Most likely this is due to suboptimal dissolution of L-T4 tablets in an environment with higher pH than usual (see section 9.8.1). The L-T4 requirement in autoimmune hypothyroidism is about 18% higher in parietal cell antibodies (PCA)-postive patients than in PCA-negative patients, and a significant positive correlation was found between L-T4 requirement and serum PCA levels (5). In patients with multinodular goiter on suppressive therapy, initiation of the proton-pump inhibitor omeprazole required a 37% increase in L-T4 dose to suppress TSH (4). Likewise, in patients with primary hypothyroidism commencing lansoprazole treatment, 19% of patients required dosage increases in levothyroxine (6). However, pharmacokinetic studies in healthy volunteers who were given L-T4 alone or L-T4 together with proton-pump inhibitors, did not observe significant differences in T4 absorption (7,8). The discrepancy between studies may be caused by differences in the duration of proton-pump treatment: one week in the healthy volunteers (7,8) but up to 6 months in the patients (6). Patients who develop clinical malabsorptive disorders like coeliac disease may require an increase in L-T4 dosage 9,10 . In view of the frequent occurrence of coeliac disease in patients with autoimmune thyroid disease, many authors suggest screening for coeliac disease with anti-gliadin antibodies in patients with hypothyroidism who require higher than expected doses of L-T4. Malabsorption may also occur in patients with short bowel syndrome 11-14 , and in particular
