Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


with anti-gliadin antibodies in patients with hypothyroidism who require higher than expected doses of L-T4. Malabsorption may also occur in patients with short bowel syndrome 11-14 , and in particular cases of lactose intolerance (15) or chronic intestinal Giardiasis (16). Reduced drug absorption requiring higher doses pf levothyroxine may occur after bariatric surgery: it is observed rather frequently after jejunoileal bypass, less often after gastric bypass/gastroplasty, and rarely after biliopancreatic diversion (78.79). Oral liquid levothyroxine formula may be better absorbed compared to levothyroxine tablets following bariatric surgery (80). Interestingly, levothyroxine pharmacokinetics may improve after bariatric surgey: it occurred after sleeve gastrectomy and biliopancreatic diversion with long limps but not after Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (81). Bile acid sequestering agents bind –at least in vitro- large amounts of levothyroxine, and also interfere with the entero-hepatic circulation of thyroid hormone in which T4 and T3 conjugates are excreted in bile and partially deconjugated in the intestine with the release of small amounts of T4 and T3 for reabsorption. Treatment with colestipol or colestyramine may cause a slight increase in TSH in levothyroxine-treated patients, but not in normal subjects (17,18,19). The newer bile acid sequestrant colesevelam reduced absorption of levothyroxine by 96% in healthy subjects (20). An interval of at least 4-5 hours separating thyroxine and bile acid sequestrants is recommended to attain near-normal absorption of L-T4 (21). There are a number of other agents that bind L-T4 and thereby decrease the absorption of L-T4. As a result, serum TSH increases in some but not all levothyroxine-treated patients. The effect of these drug interactions is in general modest, and can be avoided largely by taking L-T4 and the other drug several hours apart (21); sometimes the L-T4 dose has to be increased. Sucralfate binds L-T4 in vitro (22), decreases absorption of L-T4 in healthy volunteers, and may cause resistant hypothyroidism in particular cases (23) but overall its interaction with levothyroxine in L-T4 treated patients seems to be limited (24). Aluminium may complex with levothyroxine, and a dose-related adsorption of levothyroxine with aluminium hydroxide has been demonstrated in vitro (25,26). Aluminium hydroxide treatment increases serum TSH to elevated levels in L-T4 replaced patients (25,26,27).Ferrous sulphate increases serum TSH to slightly elevated levels in hypothyroid patients on stable L-T4 replacement 28,29,30 . The basis of this interaction may be the formation of an insoluble complex by binding of Fe3+ to three T4 molecules. Calcium carbonate adsorbs
