Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


on stable L-T4 replacement 28,29,30 . The basis of this interaction may be the formation of an insoluble complex by binding of Fe3+ to three T4 molecules. Calcium carbonate adsorbs L-T4 significantly in vitro (31), and it decreases the bioavailability of L-T4 in healthy volunteers (32). Calcium carbonate therapy in L-T4 replaced patients increases serum TSH, sometimes to above the normal range (31,33). Calcium carbonate is also used as a phosphate binder in chronic renal failure. Other phosphate binders may also adsorb L-T4, and both sevelamer and lanthanum carbonate reduce bioavailability of L-T4 in healthy subjects (34,35). The use of sevelamer in hemodialysis patients on levothyroxine is associated with significant increases of L-T4 dose after 6 months of therapy (36). Raloxifene and orlistat have also been reported to interfere with absorption of levothyroxine, but additional studies are required to confirm these observations 21,37,38,39 . Estrogens increase the serum concentration of thyroxine-binding-globulin (TBG) through increased sialylation of TBG thereby slowing its clearance from the circulation by the liver (40). The effect of estrogens on TBG is dependent on the route of administration, the dose and the chemical structure of the estrogen (41). Transdermal administration of estradiol causes minimal changes in TBG, in contrast to oral estradiol which raises serum TBG by 50-70% (41). The contrast is due to high estrogen levels in the portal vessels and first-pass metabolism in the liver after oral administration. With regard to chemical structure of estrogens, ethinylestradiol in view of its limited liver metabolism causes a rise of serum TBG when administered either orally or transvaginally (42,43). Subjects with normal thyroid glands adapt quickly to the estrogen-induced changes in TBG, and reach a new steady state with no changes in serum FT4 and TSH (41,44). In contrast, estrogen therapy in hypothyroid subjects on stable levothyroxine replacement causes a decrease in serum FT4 and an increase in serum TSH; the effect is dose-dependent and is usually seen within 6 weeks after initiation of estrogens and reaches its peak at 12 weeks (45). Thyroid function tests therefore should be obtained 8-12 weeks after starting estrogen use, and the L-T4 dose adjusted accordingly. Selective estrogen receptor modifiers (SERM) may have similar effects: tamoxifen increases serum TBG by 24% and droloxifene by 41% (46,47). One would expect an increase in required L-T4 dose in hypothyroid patients initiating SERM therapy, but so far this has not been documented. An interesting case
