Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


droloxifene by 41% (46,47). One would expect an increase in required L-T4 dose in hypothyroid patients initiating SERM therapy, but so far this has not been documented. An interesting case report describes the effect of loss of estrogens in a hypothyroid premenopausal women on levothyroxine: chemical castration by the GnRH analogue Goserelin caused an increase of serum FT4 and a decrease of serum TSH (48). There is an increase in thyroxine requirement in pregnant patients with primary hypothyroidism, probably related to increased lean body mass and increased serum TBG 49,50 . In a review of four series comprising a total of 108 women, serum TSH increased in 58% and the mean L-T4 dose increased from 117 µg to 150 µg 51 . In a prospective study among women with hypothyroidism who were planning pregnancy, an increase in the L-T4 dose was necessary during 17 out of 20 pregnancies; the mean L-T4 requirement increased 47% during the first half of pregnancy (median onset of increase at gestational week 8) and plateaued by week 16, and the increased dose was required until delivery (52). The authors recommended that women should increase their L-T4 dose by the equivalent of two daily doses each week as soon as pregnancy is confirmed. Alternatively, the daily L-T4 dose might be increased by 25 to 50 μg,with thyroid function tests six weeks later (53). A recent study randomized 48 women with treated hypothyroidism seeking pregnancy in two groups: to increase L-T4 by either two tablets per week or three tablets per week (54). TSH suppression below 0.5 mU/L occurred less often at two tablets per week increase than at three tablets per week increase. A two-tablet per week increase in L-T4 initiated at confirmation of pregnancy significantly reduced the risk of maternal hypothyroidism and mimicked normal physiology. Monitoring TSH every four weeks through midgestation and less often thereafter was recommended. The L-T4 dose may be reinstituted at its pregestational level immediately after delivery. Timely adjustment of the thyroxine dose in early gestation might be relevant for infant development. Children at the age of 7-9 years have a lower intelligence quotient if their mother was hypothyroid (elevated TSH) during pregnancy (55).But also children of healthy women with normal TSH but FT4 levels below the 10th percentile (<10.4 pmol/l) at 12 weeks gestation have lower scores on a psychomotor developmental scale at 10 months of age, compared to children
