Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


TSH but FT4 levels below the 10th percentile (<10.4 pmol/l) at 12 weeks gestation have lower scores on a psychomotor developmental scale at 10 months of age, compared to children of mothers with higher FT4 values 56 ; psychomotor development was not related to maternal FT4 at 32 weeks gestation. A recent population-based study seems to confirm these findings: in pregnant women with normal TSH levels at 13 week gestation (> 2.5 mU/L), maternal hypothyroxinemia (FT4 below the 10 th percentile of 11.7 pmol/l) was associated with cognitive delay of children at 18 and 30 months of age 57 . The findings support the argument of Morreale de Escobar et al that not elevated maternal prenatal TSH levels but maternal hypothyroxinemia (low FT4 levels) is the principal factor leading to poor development of children 58 . For, the fetal brain is dependent on local deiodination of maternal T4 into T3 until the end of the first trimester when the hypothalamus-pituitary-thyroid axis of the fetus becomes functional. The data raise the issue of screening pregnant women for thyroid function disorders in the first trimester. Several antiepileptic and tuberculostatic drugs induce mixed function oxygenases responsible for hepatic drug oxidation, which accelerates thyroxine clearance via pathways that do not lead to T3 production 59,60,61,62 . Under these circumstances, L-T4 dosage must be increased to compensate for this. Lastly, scattered reports indicate increased L-T4 requirements during treatment with amiodarone, sertraline or chloroquine 63,64,65 . The responsible mechanism is not well understood, although in the case of amiodarone it might have to do with inhibition of T4 transport and T4 deiodination into T3. A more recent study among hypothyroid patients on levothyroxine replacement, however, did not reveal changes in thyroid function tests upon randomization for treatment with sertraline or fluoxetine (both selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors used fro major depression) (83). Tyrosine kinase inhibitors can alter thyroid hormone regulation by mechanisms that apparently are specific to each molecule. Regular assessment of thyroid function is recommended before and during treatment with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (66).Sunitinib induces frequently hypothyroidism in euthyroid patients, but no data are available in levothyroxine-replaced hypothyroid subjects. Imatinib and motesanib do not affect serum TSH in euthyroid subjects with an intact thyroid gland. Imatinib in L-T4 treated hypothyroid patients increases serum TSH in all patients (towards five times the upper normal limit), and FT4 values are reduced by about 60% but remain within the
