Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


in L-T4 treated hypothyroid patients increases serum TSH in all patients (towards five times the upper normal limit), and FT4 values are reduced by about 60% but remain within the normal range (67). The required L-T4 dose increased by 210% (68). The effect appears rapidly after initiation of therapy and is reversible, since TSH normalized after discontinuation of imatinib. Whereas changes in TBG or in deiodination are not observed, it has been hypothesized that these effects of imatinib are due to stimulation of T4 and T3 clearance by the induction of uridine diphosphate-glucuronosyltransferases. Motesanib in L-T4 treated hypothyroid patients is associated with TSH concentrations ten times higher than baseline on at least one occasion in 50% of patients. Hypothyroidism or TSH above the upper normal limit occurred in 22% of differentiated thyroid cancer and in 61% of medullary thyroid cancer, frequently necessitating a higher replacement dose of L-T4 (69,70). Sorafenib induces hypothyroidism in euthroid patients with intact thyroid glands in 18%. In L-T4 replaced hypothyroid patients sorafenib is associated with an increased TSH in 33% of patients (71). In another study sorafenib decreased serum FT4 and T3 by 11% and 18% respectively, whereas TSH levels increased (requiring a slight increase of L-T4 dose of 10%). The ratio’s of serum T3 to T4 and of T3 to reverse T3 decreased by 18% and 22% respectively, compatible with increased type 3 deiodination (72).In vitro studies demonstrate that several tyrosine kinase inhibitors inhibit cellular uptake of T3 and T4 mediated by the MCT8 thyroid hormone transporter; such a mechanism could also be operative in vivo (83).. There are fewer conditions in which L-T4 dose requirements decrease. When discussing the effects of androgens on thyroid function, one should consider that synthetic androgens have variable degrees of aromatisation to estrogens in adipose tissue and liver (41). The 17β testosterone esters (given intramuscularly) still undergo significant hepatic metabolism. The 17α alkylated derivatives (given orally) are generally resistant to hepatic metabolism. In euthyroid subjects with an intact thyroid gland, administration of testosterone esters is associated with a decrease in TBG with 14% (44), whereas a nonaromatisable androgen caused a decrease in TBG with 50% (73); serum FT4 and TSH do not change. In hypothyroid patients on a stable dose of L-T4, fluoxymesterone (a non-aromatisable androgen used in breast cancer) caused a dramatic decrease in serum TBG associated with a rise in serum FT4 and a fall in
