Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


rate 1 . Some patients with adrenal insufficiency have slightly elevated TSH levels without serological evidence of chronic autoimmune thyroiditis; TSH normalizes with glucocorticoid replacement therapy (2,3,4). It illustrates the small inhibitory effect of cortisol on TSH secretion (5). Ischemic heart disease. Although treatment of hypothyroidism with levothyroxine will improve myocardial function and reduce peripheral vascular resistance, it will increase the need for oxygen in the myocardium 6,7,8 . In patients with an already compromised myocardial blood supply due to coronary atherosclerosis, thyroxine treatment may provoke anginal symptoms. In a large series of hypothyroid patients, new-onset angina occurred in 2% upon thyroxine treatment; pre-existent angina worsened in 16%, did not change in 46%, and improved in 38% 9 . Patients with preexisting angina should be evaluated for obstructive coronary lesions before thyroxine therapy begins. Retrospective studies suggest that the possibility of myocardial infarction is greater than is the possibility of an adverse event during angiography or angioplasty (10,11,12,13,14).However, it is quite surprising that major surgery, such as coronary artery bypass grafting, can be very easily withstood by the patient with even moderate hypothyroidism as long as attention is paid to reducing the level of analgesics, maintaining adequate ventilation, and controlling the administration of free water 12 . In a few patients, remediable lesions will not be present or, even with bypass grafting, complete correction of the hypothyroid state will not be possible. In such patients, submaximal amounts of levothyroxine supplemented by other agents to enhance myocardial function may be helpful in allowing the reestablishment of normal thyroid function 14 . Drugs. The metabolism of many drugs is slowed in hypothyroidism, resulting in higher sensitivity to a loading dose and a lower maintenance dose. Marked respiratory depression can occur after a single small dose of morphine. An increase in the dose of digoxin or insulin is sometimes noticed once euthyroidism has been restored. Growth hormone deficiency. A decrease in serum FT4 and an increase in T3 has been reported following growth hormone (GH) administration with or without a reduction in serum TSH, but literature data are not consistent about these changes (15). The significance of these changes is uncertain, although one study reports a good correlation between changes in serum T3 and resting energy expenditure and cardiac isovolumetric contraction time upon GH treatment (16). The changes in thyroid function can be transient and may revert to normal after a few months.
