Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


of fever despite infectious disease. Usually coma comes on during the winter months. The severely myxedematous patient becomes essentially poikilothermic. With cold weather the body temperature may drop sharply. The temperature is subnormal, often much depressed: a temperature of 74 F (23º3 C) has been recorded. A thermometer reading lower than the usual 97 F must be used, or hypothermia may be missed. 3. Precipitating event: cold exposure, infection, drugs (diuretics, tranquillizers, sedatives, analgetics), trauma, stroke, heart failure, gastrointestinal bleeding. Diagnosis on clinical grounds is relatively easy once the possibility is considered. Previous hypothyroidism had been diagnosed in 39% to 61% of all cases (6,7).The pulse is slow, and the absence of mild diastolic hypertension is a warning sign of impending myxedema coma 1 . Any patient with hypothermia and obtundation should be considered as having potential myxedema coma, especially if chronic renal insufficiency and hypoglycemia can be ruled out. The diagnosis can be confirmed by finding a reduced FT4 and marked elevation of serum TSH. However, TSH will not be elevated in myxedema coma due to central hypothyroidism (4% to 18% of cases (6,7,8). Sometimes serum TSH is just slightly elevated, possibly related to co-existent nonthyroidal illness 19 . Creatine phosphokinase is often elevated. Both hypoxia (80%)and hypercapnia (54%) may be present (7) . Hypothermia with a temperature less than 94ºF (34º4C) is seen in 88%. Treatment. Myxedema coma is a medical emergency. Early diagnosis, rapid administration of thyroid hormones and adequate supportive measures ( Table 9-14 ) are essential for the prognosis. Table 9-14 Recommendations for the treatment of myxedema coma. View in own window • hypothyroidism large initial intravenous dose of 300-500 µg T4; if no response within 24 hours, add T3.alternative: initial intravenous dose of 200-300 μg T4 plus 10-25 μg T3 • hypocortisolemia intravenous hydrocortisone 200-400 mg daily • hypoventilation don’t delay intubation and mechanical ventilation too long • hypothermia blankets, no active rewarming • hyponatremia mild fluid restriction; conivaptan ? • hypotension cautious volume expansion with crystalloid or whole blood • hypoglycemia glucose administration • precipitating event identification and elimination by specific treatment (liberal use of antibiotics) In view of the rarity of myxedema coma, it has been difficult to perform randomized studies to resolve the issue of whether T4 or T3 is the most appropriate treatment. There are advocates of T4 therapy alone 9 . T3 therapy alone 10,11 , and combinations thereof
