Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


fever, and elevated white blood count, may be absent. Prophylactic antibiotics are indicated until infection can be ruled out; upper respiratory infection should be eliminated. While the hypothyroid patient withstands the stress of surgery in general very well 17 , inadvertently excessive narcotics, sedatives, and hypnotics can tip a severely hypothyroid patient into coma. History taking from family members can be very rewarding in detecting predisposing events. This is illustrated by a case report describing myxedema coma in an elderly woman who had been eating excessive amounts of raw bok choy (Chinese white cabbage) daily for several months in the belief that it would help control her diabetes; the goitrogenic action of compounds like thiocyanates and oxazolidines (generated by eating raw cabbage) was identified as the cause of her coma 20 . Prognosis . Most patients begin to show increases in body temperature within the first 24 hours of treatment. The absence of an increase in body temperature within 48 hours should lead to consideration of more aggressive therapy, specifically T3 therapy if it has not already been initiated. Most patients regain consciousness within a few days. Mortality is between 25% and 52%, and sepsis is the predominant cause of death (6,7). Predictors of mortality include hypotension and bradycardia at presentation, need for mechanical ventilation, hypothermia unresponsive to treatment, sepsis, intake of sedative drugs, lower Glasgow Coma Scale, high APACHE II score and high SOFA score (6). Clinical suspicion, early recognition, prompt thyroid hormone replacement, and appropriate support cares remain the key to successful tretament of this rare but often fatal emergency (18). 9.10 SUBCLINICAL HYPOTHYROIDISM 9.10.1 DIAGNOSIS AND ETIOLOGY Subclinical hypothyroidism is defined as an increased serum TSH in the presence of a normal serum FT4 concentration. Increased refers to values above and normal to values within population-based reference ranges of these hormones. It is however not so simple to diagnose accurately subclinical hypothyroidism in day-to-day practice applying this biochemical definition. Diagnosis of subclinical hypothyroidism is hampered by uncertainty about what constitutes appropriate reference intervals, and by biologic variation in especially TSH. The upper limit of the TSH reference interval was 4.12 mU/L in the National Health and Nutrition Eamination Survey III (NHANES III) for a large reference population that was free of thyroid disease and representative of the U.S. population, in which subjects were excluded who had thyroid antibodies or were taking thyroid medications or other medications affecting
