Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


that was free of thyroid disease and representative of the U.S. population, in which subjects were excluded who had thyroid antibodies or were taking thyroid medications or other medications affecting thyroid measurements (1). Distribution curves of TSH are skewed to higher TSH concentrations, and under the assumption that this represents undetected thyroid disease the National Academy of Clinical Biochemistry suggested the upper normal limit of TSH should be 2.5 mU/L (2). This proposal has been very controversial, also because it would label as abnormal 10% to 20% of individuals of all ages and 35% of people older than 70 years (3,4,5). More recent population-based studies in which subjects were also excluded in case of abnormal thyroid ultrasonography, observed 97.5 th percentiles of TSH of 3.77 in Germany (6) and 4.1 mU/L in the USA (7), close to the original NHANES III value of 4.12 mU/L. The explanation for the skew in TSH distribution curves toward higher serum TSH is most likely that the upper normal limit of TSH increases with advanced age (8). When NHANES III data were reanalyzed by TSH distribution curves for specific age deciles, a progressive shift in the curves to higher TSH with age was observed, rather than a skew to higher values. E.g. the upper normal limit of TSH is 7.5 mU/L in subjects older than 80 years; 70% of subjects older than 80 years would have been labeled as having raised TSH when an upper normal limit of 4.5 mU/L is used. Age-specific reference ranges are thus recommended. Besides conceptual problems with reference ranges, the diagnosis of subclinical hypothyroidism is jeopardized by considerable biologic variation in TSH values. A particular study enrolled 21 patients with subclinical hypothyroidism (identified with serum TSH between 5 and 12 mU/L and normal T4, confirmed on two occasions 3 months apart) without former thyroid disease, who underwent monthly repeated measurements without intervention (9). In the one-year follow-upp period, one patient appeared to be euthyroid at all visits, and one patient developed profound overt hypothyroidism and was treated.The remaining patients had subclinical hypothyroidism at 74% of the visits, overt hypothyroidism at 22% and normal thyroid function tests at 4% of the visits. Diagnosis of overt hypothyroidism was highly dependent on T4 reference limits. In individual patients serum TSH was correlated to both TPO antibodies and to urinary iodine excretion, but not to hypothyroid symptoms and signs (10). The study shows
