Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


T4 reference limits. In individual patients serum TSH was correlated to both TPO antibodies and to urinary iodine excretion, but not to hypothyroid symptoms and signs (10). The study shows how TSH and FT4 vary around the outer limits of their reference ranges, how limited the information is obtained from a single set of thyroid function tests, and how biologic variation may change the diagnosis from visit to visit. It is therefore recommended, especially If a slightly increased serum TSH is found, to take a second blood sample after 3-6 months in order to ascertain the diagnosis of subclinical hypothyroidism. If a normal TSH is found in the second blood sample, this can rarely be attributed to ultradian and circadian TSH rhythms (the relative risk of misjudging mean TSH serum levels by a single TSH determination between 07.00 and 17.00 hours is only 0.09% for values above 4.0 mU/l) 11 . It is highly relevant after the biochemical diagnosis to establish a nosologic diagnosis to evaluate which condition is responsible for the elevated TSH. The llist of possible causes is very long (21). The most common causes of subclinical hypothyroidism are chronic autoimmune thyroiditis (Hashimoto’s disease), previous 131I therapy or thyroidectomy, and inappropriate dosage of thyroxine or antithyroid drugs. Loss-of-function mutations in the gene encoding for the TSH receptor are relatively common in isolated hyperthyrotropinemia, especially in children and adolescents (12,13). Other causes of an elevated TSH are interference of heterophilic TSH antibodies in TSH immunoassys, nonthyroidal illness syndrome (recovery phase), impaired renal function, untreated adrenal insufficiency (Addison’s disease) and obesity. Strictly speaking, the latter group should not be labeled as subclinical hypothyroidism because thyroid disease is absent and management is directed to the nonthytoidal cause. The case of obesity is illustrative in this respect (14). In patients with morbid obesity (BMI range of 30-67 kg/m²) TSH levels correlate positively with BMI (r=0.91), and the mean BMI change from 49 to 32 kg/m² after bariatric surgery is associated with a reduction in mean TSH levels from 4.5 to 1.9 mU/L; FT4 levels are not associated with BMI, and subclinical hypothyroidism observed in 10.5% disappears after weight reduction (15). Thyroid autoimmunity is not a major cause sustaining the high rate of an elevated TSH in morbid obesity (16). Thus it is important to establish if subclinical hypothyroidism is caused by an underlying thyroid disease. Apart from history and physical examination, this
