Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


and 25% have TSH values greater than 10 mU/L (20). The higher prevalence of subclinical hypothyroidism in females than in males and in older than in younger subjects is in agreement with the higher prevalence of thyroglobulin and thyroid peroxidase (microsomal) antibodies in women and in elderly people. 9.10.2 NATURAL HISTORY The natural history of subclinical hypothyroidism is reported in many studies, although it remains difficult to predict whether the increased TSH levels will return spontaneously to within the normal range, will remain stable, or will increase to higher values with development of overt hypothyroidism. In general it can be said that the higher the initial TSH, the higher the risk of progression; the presence of TPO antibodies potentiates the risk. Spontaneous normalization of increased TSH values in subclinical hypothyroidism is a well-known phenomenon, but the reported frequency of normalization differs markedly between studies from 4% up to 52% 1-10 . Reasons for the wide variation in normalization of TSH are differences in duration of follow-up, heterogeneity of study populations, and possibly age. In a prospective observational study normalization of TSH occurred at a median time of 18 months (range 6-60 months) (11). Some studies involve homogeneous populations (e.g.only subjects with proven autoimmune thyroiditis), whereas others do not specify the cause of subclinical hypothyroidism and consequently may harbour many subjects without underlying thyroid disease. E.g. studies in children and adolescents with subclinical hypothyroidism report stable, normalized or increasing TSH values in 31%, 31% and 38% respectively over a mean follow-up period of 41 months when all participants had Hashimoto’s thyroiditis (12), and 47%, 41% and 12% over a mean follow-up period of 24 months when all participants had idiopathic subclinical hypothyroidism (13).Normalization of TSH is more frequent in subjects with moderate TSH elevation up to 10 mU/L, with or without thyroid autoimmunity. Normalization of TSH might also be more common in old age. In a study of 107 subjects (mostly with autoimmune thyroiditis) with a mean age of 62 yr, 37% normalized TSH at a mean follow-up of 2.7 yr (9,11). In contrast, in a study of 21 subjects (with unspecified cause of elevated TSH) with a mean age of 85 yr, 52% normalized TSH at a mean follow-up of 3 yr (10). Progression to overt hypothyroidism ranges from 7.8% to 17.8% in various studies 2,4,5 . According to the initial serum TSH concentrations (TSH 4-6, >6-12, >12 mU/L, Kaplan-Meier
