Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


independently associated with progression to overt hypothyroidism. Transitions between euthyroidism and subclinical hypothyroidism were more common between 2 and 4 yr; age and sex did not affect transitions. Taking a high-dose phytoestrogen dietary supplementation (30 g soy protein with 16 mg phytoestrogens, representative of a vegetarian diet) for 8 weeks increases 3-fold the risk in subjects with subclinical hypothyroidism to develop overt hypothyroidism (20). 9.10.3 SYSTEMIC MANIFESTATIONS A multitude of papers have been published on alterations in subclinical hypothyroidism as compared to euthyroid subjects. The vast literature on this topic from 1990 through April 2007 has been nicely reviewed by Biondi and Cooper (1) and updated by Cooper and Biondi in 2012 62 . The abnormalities listed in Table 9-15 , have been reported in some but not all studies on subclinical hypothyroidism. The described abnormalities are in general minor, and more frequent in subjects with the highest TSH values 2 . Effect on symptoms, quality-of-life (QoL), and cognitive function. Hypothyroid symptoms occured more often than in controls in some small studies and in the Colorado study 3,4,,5 , but not in a large population-based study 6 . A study among healthy females with a family history of thyroid disease, recruited by advertisement, indicated a higher lifetime frequency of depression in subjects with subclinical hypothyroidism (56%) than in euthyroid subjects (20%) 7 . But again large population-based studies did not reveal lower well-being, impaired QoL, or more depression and anxiety 6,8-12 . Impaired memory function has been reported in subclinical hypothyroidsm in some early small series of patients (13,14), but more recent large population-based studies have not corroborated this observation also not in the elderly: cognitive functions were not different from controls (6,8,9,10,12). In contrast, a study using functional MRI suggested that working memory (but not other memory functions) is impaired by subclinical hypothyroidism (15). Its findings are apparently confirmed by another small study showing that cognitive impairment in subclinical hypothyroidism appears predominantly mnemonic in nature, suggesting that the etiology is not indicative of general cognitive slowing (16).Subclinical hypothyroidism seems to be less symptomatic in the elderly (8,63,64). Subjects with subclinical hypothyroidism in their 8 th decade of life even had increased walking speed and retention of physical function as compared with their peers who were euthyroid (55). Table 9-15 Abnormalities reported in some but not all studies on subclinical hypothyroidism. View in own window Symptoms • hypothyroid symptoms •
