Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


similar to those observed in overt hypothyroidism, suggesting a continuum in the cardiac effect of thyroid hormone. Vascular effects. A higher prevalence of diastolic hypertension in subclinical hypothyroidism as compared to controls has been reported in some but not all studies (1,24,25). Three factors contribute to systemic hypertension in overt hypothyroidism: increased peripheral vascular resistance, increased arterial stiffness, and endothelial dysfunction. The same factors seem to operate in subclinical hypothyroidism. Systemic vascular resistance is increased in some studies but not in others (1,19). As T3 directly affects vascular smooth muscle cells promoting relaxation, subclinical hypothyroidism might affect vascular tone. Increased arterial stiffness has been identified as an independent risk factor for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Increased arterial stiffness has been demonstrated in several studies using various techniques like pulse wave velocity (24,26). The vascular endothelium regulates vascular smooth muscle function by diffusion of nitric oxide from the endothelium to the smooth muscle cells, inducing relaxation. Flow-mediated endothelium-dependent vasodilatation is significantly impaired in subclinical hypothyroidism compared to controls (27,28,29). The endothelium dysfunction is attributed to reduced nitric oxide availability (28). Low-grade chronic inflammation could be responsible for impaired nitric oxide availability by a cyclo-oxygenase 2-dependent pathway, increasing oxidative stress in subclinical hypothyroidism due to Hashimoto’s thyroiditis (30). Carotid intima-media thickness is useful in the early diagnosis of atherosclerosis and coronary heart disease. Patients with subclinical hypothyroidism have higher carotid intima-media thickness than age-and sex-matched controls in some but not all studies (29,31,32). The observed vascular changes potentially increase the risk of atherosclerosis and coronary artery disease. Effects on biochemical tests. Serum lipids (total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol) may be increased in subclinical hypothyroidism, but the existing data in the literature are inconsistent (1). The lipid pattern is more abnormal with serum TSH > 10 mU/L. The Whickham Survey did not observe increased total cholesterol levels in subclinical hypothyroidism versus controls (33), in contrast to other population-based studies like the NHANES III (34) and the Busselton study (34) which did observe higher cholesterol levels in subclinical hypothyroidism; however, in the latter two studies the difference with controls disappeared almost completely after adjustment for age and sex. Other population-based studies report that serum TSH levels > 5.5 mU/L are associated with a rise in serum total cholesterol of 0.23 mmol/l (36), and that an increase of 1 mU/L of serum TSH is associated with an increase of serum cholesterol of 0.09 mmol/l in women
