Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


serum total cholesterol of 0.23 mmol/l (36), and that an increase of 1 mU/L of serum TSH is associated with an increase of serum cholesterol of 0.09 mmol/l in women and of 0.16 mmol/l in men (37). In older women LDL cholesterol was 13% higher and HDL cholesterol was 12% higher with TSH values > 5.5 mU/L compared to normal TSH values (38). The lipid peroxidation marker malondialdehyde is elevated in subclinical hypothyroidism compared to controls (39). Remnant lipoproteins are more often present in the fasting serum in subclinical hypothyroidism than in controls (40). Serum triglycerides are usually normal. No associations with Lp(a) have been observed. The relationship between TSH and LDL cholesterol may depend on other factors like the presence of insulin resistance (41) and smoking (42). The risk of hypercholesterolemia in subclinical hypothyroidism was restricted to smokers in one study (42). Fasting insulin levels in subclinical hypothyroidism are higher than in controls, and the homeostasis model of assessment (HOMA-IR) index suggests insulin resistance in one study but not in another (43,44). Homocysteine levels are apparently not related to subclinical hypothyroidism (31,45). Fasting insulin correlated positively with hsCRP (highly sensitive C-reactive protein), a strong predictor of cardiovascular risk (43,46).C-reactive protein levels are higher in subclinical hypothyroidism than in controls in some but not all studies (43,46,47).Another study observed higher hsCRP, total and LDL cholesterol, asymmetric dimethylarginine and arginine levels but lower nitric oxide levels in subclinical hypothyroidism than in controls (48). Alterations in coagulation parameters have also been reported (1). Global fibrinolytic capacity was lower in subclinical hypothyroidism than in controls. Subjects with subclinical hypothyroidism identified in a population based study, as compared to age- and sex-matched controls, had no changes in hemostatic factors but their factor VIIa levels were 10% lower (49). In summary, data on a potential association of subclinical hypothyroidism and traditional cardiovascular risk factors (like cholesterol) and nontraditional cardiovascular risk factors (C-reactive protein, coagulation parameters) are not consistent. Other effects . In the central nervous system an abnormal stapedial reflex but no abnormalities in brainstem auditory evoked potentials has been observed (1,50). Discrete changes in peripheral nerve function are reported: conduction velocities are normal, but motor distal latencies are prolonged and amplitudes are decreased relative to controls 1,51 . Muscle metabolism is impaired: during exercise (but not at rest) blood lactate is higher in subclinical hypothyroidism than in controls, consistent with impaired mitochondrial oxidative function
