Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


to controls 1,51 . Muscle metabolism is impaired: during exercise (but not at rest) blood lactate is higher in subclinical hypothyroidism than in controls, consistent with impaired mitochondrial oxidative function 52,53 . There exists lower exercise tolerance and less muscle strength (54). In contrast, a community-based study in 70-79 year old subjects does not demonstrate increased risk of mobility problems (tested by mean usual and rapid gait speed, cardiorespiratory fitness and walking ease) in subclinical hypothyroidism; in fact, those with TSH levels between 4.5 and 7.0 mU/L showed a slight functional advantage over euthyroid subjects (55). In another age- and sex-adjusted analysis, subclinical hypothyroidism was associated with lower vital capacity at rest and a lower work rate at the ventilator anaerobic threshold (23). Subclinical hypothyroidism is more common in patients with common bile duct stones as compared to nongallstone controls (56), but it was not analyzed if this association is independent of obesity. It has also been suggested that the prevalence of subclinical hypothyroidism is higher in patients with deep venous thrombosis (57). A study in postmenopausal women reports that subclinical hypothyroidsm affects not bone turnover but bone structure in the calcaneus (lower heel QUS) (58). Serum leptin concentrations are higher in subclinically hypothyroid than euthyroid postmenopausal women, even when controlling for body mass index (59). Plasma total and acylated ghrelin concentrations are not significantly changed by subclinical hypothyroidism (60). Fasting serum IGF-1 levels are lower in subclinical hypothyroidism than in controls (61). A prospective cohort study among community-dwelling US subjects ≥65 yr with a follow-up of 13 yr reported an association between endogenous subclinical hypothyroidism and incident hip fracture in men (hazard ratio 2.45, 95% CI 1.27-4.73) but not in women (65). 9.10.4. ASSOCIATIONS WITH CARDIOVASCULAR MORBIDITY AND MORTALITY. Studies in the early 1970s suggested preclinical hypothyroidism as a risk factor for coronary heart disease, presumably via increased cholesterol levels 1,2 . Since then, many but not all studies have demonstrated a higher prevalence of classical (like hypercholesterolemia) and nonclassical risk factors for cardiovascular disease in subclinical hypothyroidism, as outlined in section 9.10.3. So the question has arisen whether or not subclinical hypothyroidism is associated with a higher prevalence or incidence of cardiovascular disease. To answer this question, a number of epidemiological studies have been performed. Because of inconsistencies in the obtained results of population-based studies, the data has been subjected to meta-analyses. Population-based studies . We will review
