Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


number of epidemiological studies have been performed. Because of inconsistencies in the obtained results of population-based studies, the data has been subjected to meta-analyses. Population-based studies . We will review both cross-sectional (transversal) and follow-up (longitudinal) population-based studies in chronological order. In 1996, a 20-yr follow-up of the Whickham Survey in the UK among men and women of 18 yr and older, did not find an association between autoimmune thyroid disease at study entry (defined as treated hypothyroidism, positive thyroid antibodies and/or or elevated serum TSH) and subsequent development of ischemic heart disease or increased circulatory or all-cause mortality 3 . In 2000, a 4.5-yr follow-up of the Rotterdam Study among women of 55 yr and older (mean age 69±7.5 years), subclinical hypothyroidism was not associated with an increased incidence of myocardial infarction. However, at study entrance subclinical hypothyroidism was associated with a higher age-adjusted prevalence of aortic atherosclerosis (odds ratio 1.7, 95% CI 1.1 to 2.6) and myocardial infarction (odds ratio 2.3, 95% CI 1.3 to 4.0) 4 . Additional adjustment for body mass index, serum cholesterol, blood pressure, smoking and the use of β-blockers did not affect these estimates. The population attributable risk for subclinical hypothyroidism associated with myocardial infarction was 14%, within the range of that for known major risk factors for cardiovascular disease (hypercholesterolemia 18%, smoking 15%, hypertension 14%, diabetes 14%). In 2001, a 10-yr follow-up study in the UK among men and women of 60 yr and older, found no association of subclinical hypothyroidism and death from circulatory disease, but 40% of subclinically hypothyroid subjects developed overt hypothyroidism and started L-T4 therapy (5). In 2004, a 10-yr follow-up study among atomic bomb survivors from Nagasaki among men and women of 40 yr and older, found that subclinical hypothyroidism was associated with an increased mortality from all causes only in men after 3-6 years, but not after 10 years (6); the cross-sectional analysis at baseline showed an increased risk of ischemic heart disease. In 2004, a 4-yr follow-up study in Leiden among men and women of 85 yr, subclinical hypothyroidism was associated with greater longevity and a decreased risk of death from cardiovascular disease, attributed to a lower metabolic rate (7). In 2005, the 20-yr follow-up in the Busselton study in Western Australia among men and women of 17-89 yr, identified subclinical hypothyroidism as an independent predictor of coronary heart disease but not of death from
