Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


cognitive function. More recent evaluations include a RCT among subjects of 65 yr and older in the UK (providing no evidence for improvement of cognitive function with L-T4) (2), and two non-RCTs in which attention and memory improved in L-T4 treated subjects relative to controls (3,4). A placebo-controlled randomized clinical trial in the UK demonstrated significant improvement in tiredness upon levothyroxine treatment (35) The Cochrane meta-analysis evaluated many parameters of systolic and diastolic heart function. Significant improvement after L-T4 treatment was observed for some parameters, like isovolumic relaxation time, index of myocardial performance, cycle variation index and left ventricular ejection time; systemic vascular resistance was not improved. Some studies report a lower systolic and diastolic blood pressure upon L-T4 treatment of subclinical hypothyroidism (5,6,7); one study reports a 6% reduction in supine mean arterial pressure (6). More recently, L-T4 treatment apparently improves arterial stiffness as evident from one RCT (8) and three non-RCTs (7,9,10). With regard to endothelium dysfunction, endothelial progenitor cells, expressing both endothelial and stem cell markers, are offered as a novel risk marker of cardiovascular disease. Subclinical hypothyroidism is associated with a lower number of endothelial progenitor cells in peripheral blood; the count increased after L-T4 treatment to values of healthy controls (11). Recent studies also indicate regression of the increased carotid intima-media thickness upon L-T4 treatment as evident from one RCT (12) and three non-RCTs (7,13,14). With respect to serum lipids, an early non-systematic review concluded that normalization of serum TSH in subclinical hypothyroidism decreases serum cholesterol on average by 0.4 mmol/l (95% CI 0.2-0.6 mmol/l) 16 . A subsequent meta-analysis also concluded that normalization of serum TSH decreases serum LDL-cholesterol by 0.26 mmol/l (95% CI 0.12-0.41 mmol/l) 17 , but the analysis has been criticized because inclusion of both observational and randomized studies with some of poor quality. The Cochrane meta-analysis found no significant improvement of total cholesterol upon L-T4 treatment. HDL- as well as LDL-cholesterol also did not reveal significant effects of L-T4 treatment, although a subgroup with LDL values >155 mg/dl showed significant effects. No differences between intervention groups were seen in the outcomes of triglycerides, apolipoprotein A and B and lipoprotein (a). A more recent RCT observed significant decreases in total and LDL cholesterol in the T4-treated subjects as compared to the placebo group (15) The reduction in serum total and LDL cholesterol was larger in individuals with TSH levels > 8.0
