Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


LDL cholesterol in the T4-treated subjects as compared to the placebo group (15) The reduction in serum total and LDL cholesterol was larger in individuals with TSH levels > 8.0 mU/L. The influence of subclinical hypothyroidism seems directly proportional to the degree of TSH elevation (18). Higher pretreatment cholesterol levels may also be associated with a greater reduction in total and LDL cholesterol 17,19 . It has been established from large trials outside the thyroid field that cardiovascular disease is reduced by 15% for each 10% reduction in plasma LDL cholesterol or 25% by a 38 mg/dl reduction in plasma total cholesterol. A 10% reduction in cholesterol may reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality by 20% (1). Recent studies evaluated still other effects of L-T4 treatment in subclinical hypothyroidism. A RCT demonstrated increased cardiopulmonary exercise performance after L-T4 therapy in comparison to no treatment 20 . L-T4 treatment of subjects older than 70 yr with subclinical hypothyroidism did not document any benefit in terms of functional mobility 21 . A non-RCT shows normalization of reduced glomerular filtration rate and increased serum Cystatin-C levels upon L-T4 treatment of subclinical hypothyroidism (7). A RCT in iron-deficient subjects with subclinical hypothyroidism demonstrated greater increase in hemoglobin levels upon treatment with L-T4 plus iron than in treatment with iron alone (22). L-T4 treatment of subclinical hypothyroidism in pregnant women improves maternal and fetal outcomes of pregnancy, and is recommended 23 . A RCT in infertile women reports improved outcomes of in vitro fertilization upon L-T4 treatment as compared to placebo treatment 24 . Treatment effects on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, There are no placebo-controlled randomized clinical trials that assess the effect of long-term L-T4 treatment in subclinical hypothyroidism on cardiovascular morbidity or mortality. However, interesting data have emerged from the UK General Practitioner Research Database. Individuals with new subclinical hypothyroidism (TSH 5-10 mU/L) were identified in 2001 with outcomes analysed until March 2009 (34). After a median follow-up of 7.6 yr, 52.8% of the younger subjects (40-70 yr) and 49.9% of the older subjects (>70 yr) with subclinical hypothyroidism were treated with levothyroxine. Incident ischemic heart disease in the younger age group was observed in 4.2% in treated subjects and in 6.6% of the untreated subjects (multivariate-adjusted hazard ratio 0.61, 95% CI 0.39-0.95). In the older age group there were ischemic heart disease events in 12.7% in treated subjects and 10.7% in untreated subjects
