Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


further management in case subclinical hypothyroidism turns out to be persisitent. If subclinical hypothyroidism is confirmed, a strong case can be made for levothyroxine treatment when TSH values are > 10 mU/L.. This is indeed recommended by one guideline 36 . The other guideline would recommend treatment at TSH >10 mU/L in subjects below the age of 70 yr, and in subjects older than 70 yr only in the presence of symptoms or high cardiovascular risk 37 . The discrepancy between the two guidelines is caused by uncertainty about the role of age: one meta-analysis concludes the association of subclinical hypothyroidism with cardiovascular morbidity and mortality is independent of age, whereas the other concludes the risk is only present in subjects younger than 65-70 yr. The observation that subclinical hypothyroidism might have some survival value in the elderly age group has led both guidelines to the recommendation not to treat elderly individuals with TSH values of 4-10 mU/L. In younger subjects with mild to moderate subclinical hypothyroidism (TSH values between 4 and 10 mU/L) one may opt to institute levothyroxine treatment in the presence of symptoms (in view of the chance that symptoms will improve), TPO-Ab (especially in case TPO-Ab concentration is high with the risk of imminent progression to overt hypothyroidism, or cardiovascular risk factors (in the hope based on circumstantial evidence obtained from population-based association studies and some observational intervention studies to diminish the risk of developing cardiovascular events). If these three conditions are absent, most will agree it is better not to treat. In case no treatment is given, follow-up with regular repeat TSH measurements is indicated. However there is certainly a role for clinical judgement in thes patients. Many practitioners will elect to try replacement therapy in patients with SCH who are symptomatic, especizally in patients under age 70, with careful attention to maintaining TSH in the normal range. For guidelines how to manage subclinical hypothyroidism in infertile women, in pregnant women or in women planning pregnancy, please consult the chapter on Thyroid and Pregnancy. Figure 9-7 Algoritm for the individual management of subclinical hypothyroidism.(TPO-Ab = thyroid peroxidase antibodies; risk factors = cardiovascular risk factors). Table 9-16 Table 9-16 Summary of data on subclinical hypothyroidism. View in own window Prevalence • approximately 4-8% in general population • more common in women than in men • more common in elderly subjects than in young subjects• more common
