Adult Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, thyroid, tsh, serum, normal, hypothyroid, hormone, disease, thyroid hormone, treatment, myxedema, therapy, increased, symptoms


that large randomized trials are needed to determine the likelihood that treatment will improve the quality of life in otherwise healthy subjects who have mildly elevated TSH levels 7 . On the other hand, the update favors office-based screening to detect overt thyroid dysfunction in women older than 50 years of age: in this group, 1 in 71 women screened would benefit from relief of symptoms. Taken together, the presently available data do not justify yet screening of the healthy adult population for hypothyroidism. It is not recommended by th US Preventive Services Task Forcealtough the American Thyroid Association recommend screening every 5 years in women and men older than 35 years.Case-finding, i.e. testing on patients visiting their physician for unrelated reasons, seems currently the best approach to detect previously unsuspected hypothyroidism; it is especially worthwhile in women over 40 years of age. Screening of all pregnant women on thyroid disorders has not yet been accepted, but is most likely beneficial in view of a recent report indicating better outcomes with universal screening as compared to case finding (12). Table 9-17 provides a useful list of indications for screening for hypothyroidism 8 . Table 9-17. I ndications for screening for hypothyroidism. (Reproduced with permission) 8 View in own window ESTABLISHED Congenital hypothyroidism Treatment of hyperthyroidism Neck irradiation Pituitary surgery or irradiation Patients taking amiodarone or lithiumPROBABLY WORTHWHILE Pregnancy Type I diabetes antepartum Previous episode of postpartum thyroiditis Unexplained infertility Women over 40 with non-specific complaints Refractory depression; bipolar affective disorder with rapid cycling 10 Turner’s syndrome; Down’s syndrome Autoimmune Addison’s disease UNCERTAIN Breast cancer 11 DementiaFamily history of autoimmune thyroid disease Obesity Idiopathic oedemaNOT INDICATED Acutely ill patients with no clinical reason to suspect thyroid disease References References for Section 9.1 9.1.1. Gull WW: On a cretinoid state supervening in adult life in women. Trans Clin Soc London 1874; 7: 180. 9.1.2. Ord WM: On myxedema, a term proposed to be applied to an essential condition in the "cretinoid" affection occasionally observed in middle-aged women. Medico-Chir Trans 1878; 61: 57. 9.1.3. Reverdin JL: In discussion. Société médicale de Genève. Rev Med Suisse Romande 1882; 2: 539. 9.1.4. Kocher T: Ueber Kropfexstirpation und ihre Folgen. Arch Klin Chir 1883; 29:254. 9.1.5. Report of a Committee of the Clinical Society of London to Investigate the Subject of Myxedema. London, Longmans. Green & Co. Ltd. 1888. References for Section 9.2 9.2.1. Spencer CA,
