Diabetes Mellitus in Patients with Cancer
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cancer, doi, crossref, pubmed, pubmed crossref, hyperglycemia, risk, patients, glucose, people, treatment, article, free, pmc free


ABSTRACT There is increasing evidence of an association between cancer and diabetes mellitus. People with Type 2 diabetes are at increased risk of malignancy due to shared risk factors between the two conditions, and people with a diagnosis of cancer may develop new onset diabetes or impaired glycemic control, partly as a result of the systemic anti-cancer treatments (SACT) they receive. Many newer targeted anti-cancer treatments can have off-target metabolic toxicities not seen with conventional chemotherapy agents. Early recognition of diabetes or hyperglycemia in people with cancer can improve outcomes. This chapter aims to summarize these associations, provide an overview of how different SACT modalities can impact glycemic control, and highlight key recommendations for the management of this complex patient group. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a rising global public health emergency, with recent estimates suggesting that over 850 million people globally will be affected by 2045 ( 1 ). DM is typically classified into broad categories including Type 1 (T1DM), Type 2 (T2DM), gestational, monogenic, pharmacologically induced, endocrinopathy-driven, and DM due to pancreatic disease/deficiency (sometimes referred to as Type 3c) ( 2 , 3 ). T2DM is regarded as the most common subtype and is reported to account for over 85% of cases ( 1 ). All types of DM can lead to multisystem microvascular (nephropathy, retinopathy, neuropathy) and macrovascular (ischemic heart disease, stroke, and peripheral vascular disease) complications, with management of these complications placing a strain upon many health services. People with a diagnosis of DM are also at higher risk for developing several cancers ( 4 ), with reasons for this in part due to shared risk factors between the two, including age, obesity, sedentary lifestyle, and diet ( 5 , 6 ). An important umbrella review of meta-analyses of observational studies alongside Mendelian randomization studies found that risks of developing several cancers were higher in people with DM compared to those without. The most convincing associative evidence was seen in pancreatic, gallbladder, hepatocellular, colorectal, breast, and endometrial cancers. The Mendelian randomization findings of the analysis indicated a potential causal relationship between genetically predicted T2DM and/or fasting insulin levels and the risk of breast, endometrial, pancreatic, and kidney cancers, rather than with genetically predicted fasting glucose levels ( 4 ).In view of this increased cancer risk in people with DM,
