Diabetes Mellitus in Patients with Cancer
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cancer, doi, crossref, pubmed, pubmed crossref, hyperglycemia, risk, patients, glucose, people, treatment, article, free, pmc free


the risk of breast, endometrial, pancreatic, and kidney cancers, rather than with genetically predicted fasting glucose levels ( 4 ).In view of this increased cancer risk in people with DM, some groups even advocate that regular screening for underlying cancer should be part of routine DM assessments ( 7 ). It is estimated that approximately 20% of people with cancer have concurrent diabetes ( 8 ). Individuals with cancer are also at an increased risk of developing new onset DM or hyperglycemia, independent of an underlying diagnosis of diabetes, whilst people with cancer who also have DM often experience worsening glycemic control ( 9 ). Reasons for poor glycemic measures in these individuals include complications from systemic anticancer treatments (SACT) along with supportive medications to treat treatment side effects, and symptoms of the underlying malignancy. This chapter aims to summarize the complex relationship between malignancy and DM, particularly the effects of SACT on glycemic control and risk of DM, as well as outlining management guidelines for DM in people with cancer. DIABETES/HYPERGLYCEMIA AND CANCER OUTCOMES Observational studies have demonstrated that hyperglycemia is associated with poorer overall survival (OS) and increased risk of disease recurrence in a number of malignancies, solid and hematological ( 10 - 17 ), with a number of individual studies, and larger meta-analyses supporting this. One meta-analysis reviewed 12 studies comprising 9,872 people with a diagnosis of cancer without known diabetes. Individuals with hyperglycemia were found to have significantly worse disease-free survival (DFS) (hazard ratio (HR) 1.98, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.20-3.27) compared to those without, as well as worse OS (HR 2.05, 95% CI 1.67-2.551) ( 18 ). A further meta-analysis of 4,241 patients with pancreatic cancer suggested that those individuals with concurrent DM (1,034) have poorer OS (HR 1.16, 95% CI 1.08-1.25) and a higher risk of on-treatment death than those without concurrent DM ( 19 ).Furthermore, in a meta-analysis of 8 studies in breast cancer, concurrent DM was found to confer a greater risk of death, and a later stage at presentation, as well as impact on the treatment given ( 20 ). People with DM also have a higher prevalence of oral cancers, as well as a higher mortality from these cancers ( 21 ). In addition to this, preclinical studies have suggested that hyperglycemia may specifically attenuate the efficacy of chemotherapy in people with cancer with or without diabetes, which could in
