Diabetes Mellitus in Patients with Cancer
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cancer, doi, crossref, pubmed, pubmed crossref, hyperglycemia, risk, patients, glucose, people, treatment, article, free, pmc free


21 ). In addition to this, preclinical studies have suggested that hyperglycemia may specifically attenuate the efficacy of chemotherapy in people with cancer with or without diabetes, which could in part account for these observations ( 22 ). For example, hyperglycemia may attenuate chemotherapy-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, which in-turn can diminish the efficacy of treatment ( 23 ). In vivo, there are some small series that have demonstrated an association between hyperglycemia and resistance to chemotherapy. A clinical study of 88 people with estrogen-receptor positive breast cancer demonstrated impaired glucose tolerance significantly correlated with disease progression in those receiving chemotherapy ( 24 ). Furthermore, high blood glucose levels irrespective of an underlying DM diagnosis, were shown to significantly enhance oxaliplatin resistance in individuals with stage III colorectal cancer receiving adjuvant chemotherapy ( 22 ). Studies such as these highlight the importance of adequate glycemic control during treatment for cancer to potentially improve outcomes, although these data are mainly from observational studies, with interventional studies lacking. Use of a real-world data platform to analyze the impact of pre-existing diabetes on outcomes in women with localized breast cancer, demonstrated a significantly poorer OS in women with breast cancer and diabetes, compared to those without diabetes. Importantly, this persisted after adjusting for confounders and cardiovascular diseases ( 25 ). EFFECT OF DIABETES OR HYPERGLYCEMIA ON QUALITY OF LIFE IN PEOPLE WITH CANCER Cancer-related symptoms and SACT side effects, such as fatigue, nausea, anorexia, and pain can be debilitating. When confounded by symptoms of hyperglycemia, the impact upon an individual’s quality of life can be significant ( 26 ). Furthermore, the impact of a cancer diagnosis, as well as treatment and cancer-related symptoms can have major negative impacts on diabetes self-care ( 27 ), with data suggesting that adherence to glucose lowering drugs often decreases in individuals following a cancer diagnosis ( 28 ). A cancer diagnosis can also have financial and social impacts upon individuals, affecting access to healthy food and outpatient diabetes services, resulting in lower quality of life and a higher symptom burden ( 29 ). A systematic review of 10 studies demonstrated poorer patient reported outcomes (PROs) in those diagnosed with both cancer and DM compared to having either one of these diseases alone ( 30 ). DIABETES AND RISK OF TREATMENT RELATED TOXICITY People with DM are known to be at higher risk from infections, and undergoing
