Diabetes Mellitus in Patients with Cancer
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cancer, doi, crossref, pubmed, pubmed crossref, hyperglycemia, risk, patients, glucose, people, treatment, article, free, pmc free


either one of these diseases alone ( 30 ). DIABETES AND RISK OF TREATMENT RELATED TOXICITY People with DM are known to be at higher risk from infections, and undergoing systemic anticancer treatments (SACT) can exacerbate this, resulting in higher rates of infection and hospitalization observed in those with cancer and DM ( 31 , 32 ). This in turn leads to higher rates of chemotherapy dose reductions and early treatment cessation ( 29 , 33 - 35 ). A meta-analysis of 10 observational studies involving 8,688 cases found that the likelihood of developing chemotherapy-induced neutropenia was higher amongst individuals with DM/hyperglycemia than those without (odds ratio (OR) 1.32, 95% CI 1.06-1.64) ( 32 ). Chemotherapy-induced neutropenia poses a significant risk for infection and hospitalization in all people with cancer, with an associated rate of morbidity and mortality which is higher in those with raised blood glucose levels ( 31 ). In addition to severe hematological toxicity, more severe rates of non-hematological toxicity have also been associated with hyperglycemia during chemotherapy in people with prostate cancer and lymphoma ( 36 ). A single-center retrospective analysis found that individuals with cancer and DM who had good glycemic control had no increased risk of treatment-related complications compared with individuals without DM ( 37 ), suggesting that optimal glycemic control during SACT could improve tolerability, thereby reducing rates of admission and dose-limiting toxicity. Conceivably, people with DM may be more prone to neuro- and nephrotoxic agents due to their underlying predisposition conferred by the DM. Indeed, a previous report suggested that taxane-based chemotherapy regimens resulted in a significantly higher rate of peripheral neuropathy in those with DM compared to those without (74.4% vs. 58.5%) ( 38 ). There are no convincing data to suggest that a concurrent cancer diagnosis accelerates the risk of diabetic nephropathy or retinopathy. EFFECTS OF SYSTEMIC ANTICANCER THERAPIES ON GLYCEMIA Systemic anti-cancer therapies (SACT) encompass a wide range of treatments including cytotoxic chemotherapy, hormone therapy, targeted therapy, and immunotherapy, many of which can impact glycemic control directly or as a result of toxicity management or supportive medications which are given alongside treatment. Several anti-cancer agents have been demonstrated to increase the risk of hyperglycemia as summarized in Table 1 , and many can do this even in those without a known diagnosis of DM. People receiving SACT are also at risk of developing a new diagnosis of diabetes. One
