Diabetes Mellitus in Patients with Cancer
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cancer, doi, crossref, pubmed, pubmed crossref, hyperglycemia, risk, patients, glucose, people, treatment, article, free, pmc free


and/or type 2 DM is the concurrent use of corticosteroids in highly emetogenic chemotherapy regimens, but an analysis of type 2 DM following anthracycline use in 3,147 lymphoma patients suggested that the use of these drugs independently increases the risk of T2DM, when data was adjusted for corticosteroid use, comorbidities, age, and gender. A threshold doxorubicin dose of 253mg was identified, below which there was no increased risk of developing T2DM ( 77 ). Risk of diabetes from cytotoxic chemotherapy may also increase with age, with one pediatric study suggesting that the risk was higher in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) patients aged > 10, compared with those < 10 years old ( 78 ). Exact mechanisms of how and why some cytotoxic chemotherapies can lead to hyperglycemia or T2DM remain unclear. Proposed mechanisms include the induction of an inflammatory state which predisposes to hyperglycemia ( 79 ) or direct metabolic effects on tissues vital to glucose homeostasis such as skeletal muscles ( 80 ). Oral Targeted Anticancer Agents Many new targeted cancer therapies inhibit various points in the insulin receptor signaling pathway including the commonly used class of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) ( 81 ). Reported effects of targeted TKIs on blood glucose metabolism range from the development of metabolic syndrome and diabetes via the blocking of insulin signaling ( 81 ), as well as erratic glycemic control and even hypoglycemia in those with pre-existing type 1 or type 2 DM49, ( 82 , 83 ). In contrast some TKIs may improve glycemic control suggesting that management of these individuals needs to be individualized with no one-size-fits-all management algorithm. Reversibility of these effects is also unclear, with reported improvements in glycemic control and HbA1c levels following dose reductions or treatment termination ( 84 ). Inhibitors of mTOR (everolimus, temsirolimus, or ridaforolimus) have also been shown to impact glycemic control since mTOR is a protein kinase that plays a key role in regulating cell growth as well as lipid and glucose metabolism ( 85 , 86 ). Meta-analyses looking into these effects have demonstrated significantly higher rates of hyperglycemia, hypercholesterolemia, and hypertriglyceridemia compared with controls ( 87 , 88 ) In isolated cases, the effects have been severe enough to precipitate DKA ( 89 ). To date, studies have not demonstrated either positive or negative associations between treatment response rates and incidence of metabolic complications ( 90 ). As novel targeted
