Diabetes Mellitus in Patients with Cancer
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cancer, doi, crossref, pubmed, pubmed crossref, hyperglycemia, risk, patients, glucose, people, treatment, article, free, pmc free


DKA ( 89 ). To date, studies have not demonstrated either positive or negative associations between treatment response rates and incidence of metabolic complications ( 90 ). As novel targeted agents continue to be introduced to manage a range of cancers, it is expected that metabolic toxicities continue to be reported given the homeostatic function of many of these druggable targets. Whilst some of these agents will provide meaningful benefit in terms of survival for people with advanced cancers, such as the PI3Kα inhibitor alpelisib for PI3KA-mutated metastatic breast cancer ( 44 ), glycemic control needs to be at the forefront of the prescriber’s mind at initiation, to ensure adequate management of toxicities. In the SOLAR-1 trial, more than half of the trial participants treated with alpelisib developed hyperglycemia, with almost 7% having to withdraw from the study due to hyperglycemia alone ( 91 ). Recently, there has been a consensus statement from a panel of experts detailing how to screen for and manage hyperglycemia in patients being treated with alpelisib ( 92 ). These include checking baseline HbA1c and glucose levels with use of metformin and other oral antihyperglycemics as the mainstay of treatment whilst reserving exogenous insulin treatment for severe and refractory hyperglycemia ( 92 ). Hormone Therapy ANDROGEN DEPRIVATION THERAPY Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) is recognized as a risk factor for development of diabetes, metabolic syndrome, and cardiovascular disease ( 73 , 93 , 94 ). In a large observational study of over 35,000 men treated for prostate cancer, ADT in the form of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonists, oral antiandrogens, a combination of the two, or orchiectomy was associated with a significantly increased risk of diabetes, coronary heart disease, myocardial infarction, and sudden cardiac death ( 92 ). These findings are supported by other studies, including a meta-analysis of over 150,000 men with prostate cancer receiving ADT ( 73 ), with association observed with all forms of ADT, with the weakest association with anti-androgen therapy alone. ESTROGEN TARGETED THERAPY Studies examining the effect of estrogen-targeted therapies on the development of diabetes in women with breast cancer are less clear cut. Whilst one retrospective cohort analysis failed to demonstrate a link between tamoxifen use and the development of DM ( 95 ), two large population-based studies demonstrated a significant association between tamoxifen use and the development of diabetes in women diagnosed with breast cancer ( 74 , 96
