Diabetes Mellitus in Patients with Cancer
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cancer, doi, crossref, pubmed, pubmed crossref, hyperglycemia, risk, patients, glucose, people, treatment, article, free, pmc free


DM ( 95 ), two large population-based studies demonstrated a significant association between tamoxifen use and the development of diabetes in women diagnosed with breast cancer ( 74 , 96 ); The first of these studies included almost 15,000 Canadian women aged 65 years or older diagnosed with early breast cancer, whilst the second included over 22,000 women in Taiwan aged 20 years and over. Whilst tamoxifen appears to increase the risk of developing DM, aromatase inhibitor therapy does not, with no link found in any of these three studies. Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICPi), including cytotoxic T-lymphocyte associated protein 4 (CTLA-4) and programmed cell death protein 1/programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-1/PDL-1) inhibitors are a sub-class of monoclonal antibody treatments that have revolutionized cancer treatment over the last decade. First approved for use in the treatment of melanoma, ICPi are now recognized as providing a survival benefit across a number of cancers and are increasingly used in early-stage cancers in the adjuvant and neo-adjuvant setting and also in combination with chemotherapy ( 97 ). Whilst clinically effective, ICPi can lead to a spectrum of immune-related adverse events (IRAEs). Endocrine IRAEs include hypophysitis, thyroiditis, adrenalitis, and de novo diabetes. The risk of developing de novo diabetes is low, occurring in 0.2-4% of ICPi treated individuals depending on the immunotherapy given ( 70 , 98 ). The immune checkpoint PD-1 and its ligand PD-L1 have been shown to have an important immune homeostatic function in the pancreas by promoting beta cell maturation and preventing immune-mediated beta cell destruction ( 99 ). To date, there is no convincing evidence for a physiological role for CTLA-4 within the pancreas. PD-1 inhibitors, PD-L1 inhibitors, and combination CTLA-4/PD-1 therapy have been demonstrated to precipitate diabetes more commonly than CTLA-4 inhibitors alone. The underlying clinical presentation is akin to type 1 diabetes (71) and believed to be precipitated by inappropriate activation of self-reactive T-cells and destruction of insulin-producing pancreatic islet β-cells. ICP-induced insulin deficiency may lead to new-onset insulin-dependent diabetes or worsening pre-existing type 2 diabetes. Up to 75% of people who develop ICP-induced hyperglycemia/diabetes present with diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) ( 100 - 102 ). Presentations are frequently acute with a precipitous increase in blood glucose ( 103 ). Therefore ICP-induced diabetes can be discriminated from ‘standard’ T1DM, by its tendency towards a faster onset, apparently fulminant course, and high degree of antibody negativity
