Diabetes Mellitus in Patients with Cancer
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cancer, doi, crossref, pubmed, pubmed crossref, hyperglycemia, risk, patients, glucose, people, treatment, article, free, pmc free


blood glucose ( 103 ). Therefore ICP-induced diabetes can be discriminated from ‘standard’ T1DM, by its tendency towards a faster onset, apparently fulminant course, and high degree of antibody negativity ( 103 ). The nomenclature of the condition in the published literature varies mainly between ‘Type 1 like’ to ‘fulminant’ with there being differences between the presentation of ICPi-induced diabetes and T1DM and fulminant diabetes. Kyriacou and colleagues compared the characteristics of 75 published cases and concluded that there is some overlap with T1DM and fulminant DM. However, this was felt to be insufficient overlap for ICPi diabetes to be wholly classified as either type 1 like or fulminant ( 104 ). Nevertheless, the recognition that these agents can precipitate rapid beta cell destruction which results in an unusually high number of emergency presentations is key. Treatment of non-endocrine IRAEs is typically with high dose steroids, often for prolonged periods of time. At present, steroids are used frequently in people receiving ICPs, further increasing the risk of hyperglycemia, and steroid induced T2DM ( 98 ). An analysis of the World Health Organizations (WHO) pharmacovigilance database over a 4-year period detected 283 cases of ICP-induced diabetes mellitus, 50.2% of which presented with DKA, and 6% of whom were on concurrent steroids at diagnosis ( 105 ). There was a wide variability in duration of ICP treatment, and timing of DM onset, occurring even up to 8 months after cessation of ICP treatment. A systematic review of 90 cases demonstrated a diagnosis of DM on average after 4.5 cycles of ICP ( 106 ). C-peptide levels were usually low or undetectable at diagnosis, islet autoantibodies were positive in 53%, with a predominance of glutamic acid decarboxylase antibodies, and susceptible HLA genotypes present in 65% ( 106 ). HbA1c levels were relatively low, consistent with the observed rapid onset of beta cell inflammation. Importantly, an elegant albeit small single-center study, used radiological and biochemical phenotyping to demonstrate that ICPi DM is irreversible ( 107 ). This has important clinical implications such that any individual diagnosed with ICPi-induced DM should be counselled around an expected life-long requirement of insulin. A recent cohort study from the USA showed that the incidence of ICPi DM was 0.45% in 14328 patients treated with ICPi. The risk of developing DM was cited as being 7 times higher than the general background risk for developing T1DM ( 108 ).
