Diabetes Mellitus in Patients with Cancer
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cancer, doi, crossref, pubmed, pubmed crossref, hyperglycemia, risk, patients, glucose, people, treatment, article, free, pmc free


0.45% in 14328 patients treated with ICPi. The risk of developing DM was cited as being 7 times higher than the general background risk for developing T1DM ( 108 ). Importantly, risk factors for developing ICPi DM were identified as being a pre-existing diagnosis of T2DM (OR 5.91), having combination ICPi treatment (OR 2.57) or a cancer diagnosis of melanoma (OR 4.02) ( 108 ). The authors also demonstrated that by using a T1DM genetic risk scoring system, the top 10% of the genetic risk scoring patients had a 4.4 times higher risk of developing ICPi DM ( 108 ). They demonstrated 3 distinct clinical phenotypes of ICPi DM: i) absent insulin production with antibody positivity, ii) absent insulin production with antibody negativity and iii) hyperinsulinemic DM ( 108 ). The latter captured 12.5% of patients in whom insulin was measured (7 out of 56 patients in the cohort) and represents a new description of ICPi DM ( 108 ) that needs exploring in larger cohorts and so firm conclusions about the latter phenotype cannot be drawn from this cohort alone. The unanimous understanding from other cohorts and case series ( 98 , 100 - 105 ) and clinical guidelines is that ICPi caused beta-cell failure and marked hyperinsulinemia leading to an absolute insulin treatment requirement in patients who develop ICPi DM ( 98 ). Glucocorticoid (Steroid) Treatment Glucocorticoids (GC) increase insulin resistance and glucose production and inhibit the production and secretion of insulin by pancreatic beta cells, as well as acting centrally to counteract the appetite-reducing effects of insulin ( 109 ). As such they are commonly associated with the development of hyperglycemia and diabetes. GCs have a direct hyperglycemic effect which starts very early after ingestion or infusion ( 110 - 112 ). A previous single-center study of a large inpatient cohort of people receiving glucocorticoids showed that the rise in capillary glucose was independent of either oral or intravenous route of transmission of steroid ( 113 ). They typically cause an increase in blood glucose levels 4-8 hours after ingestion leading to a peak blood glucose level between midday meal and evening meal ( 111 , 114 , 115 ). The lowest readings of glucose for inpatients who developed hyperglycemia due to steroids were found between the hours of 4 AM and 8 AM following which there was a rise in glucose through the day with a
