Diabetes Mellitus in Patients with Cancer
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cancer, doi, crossref, pubmed, pubmed crossref, hyperglycemia, risk, patients, glucose, people, treatment, article, free, pmc free


who developed hyperglycemia due to steroids were found between the hours of 4 AM and 8 AM following which there was a rise in glucose through the day with a demonstrable reduction in overnight glucose readings for those on serial doses ( 114 ). In this study of 964 inpatients in the UK who received glucocorticoid therapy, dexamethasone and methylprednisolone were shown to induce the greatest degree of hyperglycemia ( 114 ). One in ten people not known to have diabetes develop GC-induced diabetes ( 116 ) an effect which is dose dependent ( 117 ). The incidence of glucocorticoid-induced hyperglycemia has been shown to occur in up to 30% of individuals without diabetes ( 118 ) but could be as high as 50%. The consequences of missing it can lead to significant harm, including the development of Hyperosmolar Hyperglycemic State (HHS), hospitalization, and in extreme circumstances, death. In a single center UK prevalence study 12.8% (120/940) of inpatients were found to be on glucocorticoids, however only 20.5% of these individuals (25/120) had their blood glucose levels measured during admission, demonstrating how infrequently glucose is measured in hospital ( 119 ). It is important to ensure that if glucocorticoid (steroid) induced hyperglycemia does occur, it is picked up early. The use of GCs is common in advanced cancer, to reduce peri-lesional edema, relieve pain, control nausea, combat fatigue, or boost appetite. For oncological emergencies such as cerebral metastases, superior vena-cava obstruction (SVCO), or metastatic spinal cord compression (MSCC), high dose GC treatment is integral to patient management. Furthermore, GC treatments are the backbone of many hematological cancer treatment regimens, and are often used as supportive anti-emetic medications, or to prevent allergic reactions, in many solid tumor regimens ( 110 ), and, as discussed above, the main first-line treatment for the management of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICP) toxicity. In one study, the incidence of glucocorticoid-induced diabetes was 20% in those with newly diagnosed gastrointestinal cancer following at least 3 cycles of highly or moderately emetogenic chemotherapy, including dexamethasone as a supportive medication. Furthermore, almost 60% of people in the study exhibited signs of insulin resistance and multivariate analysis showed a significant association between the cumulative dose of dexamethasone and the incidence of corticosteroid-induced diabetes ( 120 ). In a separate smaller study of 16 women without diabetes with ovarian or endometrial cancer receiving carboplatin/paclitaxel chemotherapy with dexamethasone as supportive care, almost
