Diabetes Mellitus in Patients with Cancer
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cancer, doi, crossref, pubmed, pubmed crossref, hyperglycemia, risk, patients, glucose, people, treatment, article, free, pmc free


of corticosteroid-induced diabetes ( 120 ). In a separate smaller study of 16 women without diabetes with ovarian or endometrial cancer receiving carboplatin/paclitaxel chemotherapy with dexamethasone as supportive care, almost all experienced elevated interstitial glucose levels with diurnal variation during the first five days of treatment ( 121 ). For those who receive prednisolone as part of a treatment regimen for hematological malignancies, rates of steroid-induced diabetes and hyperglycemia have been reported to be as high as 32.5% and 47% respectively, highlighting the scale of this issue ( 122 , 123 ). Supra-physiological doses of glucocorticoids approximate to a dose of prednisolone greater than 5mg per day or an equivalent dose of the alternative synthetic GC are shown in Table 2 . With increasing dose of GC, the risk of potential hyperglycemia increases, and in people without pre-existing diabetes, a glucocorticoid dose equivalent of >12mg dexamethasone and longer acting steroids are associated with a greater degree of hyperglycemia ( 124 ). As duration of GC treatment increases, it becomes increasingly likely that hyperglycemia may not resolve once the GCs are withdrawn, with those groups at particular risk of developing glucocorticoid induced diabetes, shown in Table 3 . Table 2. Glucocorticoid Dose Equivalent View in own window Glucocorticoid (steroid) Potency (equivalent doses) Duration of action (half-life, in hours) Hydrocortisone 20 mg 8 Prednisolone 5 mg 16-36 Methylprednisolone 4 mg 18-40 Dexamethasone 0.8 mg 36-54 Betamethasone 0.8 mg 26-54 Table 3. Risk Factors for Glucocorticoid-Inducted Diabetes View in own window Pre-existing type 1 or type 2 diabetes Family history of diabetes Increasing age Obesity Ethnic minorities Impaired fasting glucose or impaired glucose tolerance Polycystic ovarian syndrome Previous gestational diabetes Previous development of hyperglycemia on glucocorticoid therapy Concurrent cytotoxic therapy known to cause hyperglycemia HYPOGLYCEMIA IN PEOPLE ON SYSTEMIC ANTICANCER THERAPIES (SACT) Although anti-cancer therapies and glucocorticoid use lead predominantly to hyperglycemia, there are risks of hypoglycemia that require consideration. People at risk of hypoglycemia should be counselled on the signs and symptoms to be aware of, and of the requirement to inform the driver and vehicle licensing agency should they experience any episodes of hypoglycemia requiring third party assistance. Poor oral intake and nausea/vomiting from the underlying cancer or treatments put individuals at increased risk of hypoglycemia. Weight loss in patients with T2D can lead to lower glucose levels and even remission of the diabetes. Poor glycemic control can cause weight loss
