Diabetes Mellitus in Patients with Cancer
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cancer, doi, crossref, pubmed, pubmed crossref, hyperglycemia, risk, patients, glucose, people, treatment, article, free, pmc free


at increased risk of hypoglycemia. Weight loss in patients with T2D can lead to lower glucose levels and even remission of the diabetes. Poor glycemic control can cause weight loss and precipitate nutrition impact symptoms (NIS) such as nausea, poor appetite, and altered bowel movements, further increasing the risks of hypoglycemia, particularly when dietary intake has been poor for some time. People with diabetes on an insulin secretagogue (sulfonylureas or meglitinides), or those on insulin, are at higher risk of hypoglycemia. In patients with end-stage metastatic disease, and shortened life expectancy, tight glucose control is not indicated, potentially placing individuals at unnecessary risk for hypoglycemia, particularly in those with a poor performance status. Individual risk for hypoglycemia and prognosis should be considered and recommended glycemic measurement targets are between 6.0 mmol/L – 15 mmol/L (108 – 225 mg/dl) ( 125 ). People with new onset ICPi-induced insulin deficiency often have labile glucose control ( 103 ). More relaxed glucose targets may be required to avoid hypoglycemia wherever possible. Immune checkpoint inhibitors can also induce hypopituitarism leading to secondary adrenal insufficiency. This may lead to hypoglycemia (together with any of the following - hyponatremia, hyperkalemia and hypotension). Adrenalitis leading to primary adrenal insufficiency is very rare. Presentation of adrenal insufficiency ranges from asymptomatic laboratory alterations to the acutely unwell, with management depending on the severity ( 126 ). Other causes of adrenal or pituitary deficiency leading to hypoglycemia include metastases at these sites, surgery, irradiation, azole class of anti-fungal medication, and inappropriate abrupt cessation of glucocorticoid medication. In oncology patients being weaned from long-term steroids, glucose monitoring will need to be continued after glucocorticoid cessation, with doses of anti-diabetic treatments adjusted accordingly, and individuals advised on risks of hypoglycemia. Caution is also required whilst using certain hematological anti-cancer therapies, including lenalidomide ( 127 ) and bortezomib ( 128 ), which can precipitate hypoglycemia, particularly in people with an underlying diagnosis of diabetes. All cancer patients at risk from hypoglycemia should receive advice regarding appropriate treatment with 15–20 g of fast-acting carbohydrate, taken immediately ( 129 ). Comprehensive guidelines from the Joint British Diabetes Societies for Inpatient Care on the management of hypoglycemia can be found at this reference ( 130 ). MANAGEMENT RECOMMENDATIONS Despite the effects of hyper- and hypoglycemia in people with diabetes (PWD) and those without known diabetes in cancer, there is a sparsity of guidance on the specific
