Diabetes Mellitus in Patients with Cancer
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cancer, doi, crossref, pubmed, pubmed crossref, hyperglycemia, risk, patients, glucose, people, treatment, article, free, pmc free


ketonuria/ketonemia 4) Contact usual diabetes team for support in titrating insulin 5) Consider titrating insulin by 10-20% of the original dose daily 6) Individuals should be made aware of ‘sick day rules’ with insulin administration Full management guidelines can be found at the UK Chemotherapy Board (UKCB) and Joint British Diabetes Society for Inpatient Care (JBDS) websites. ADDITIONAL MANAGEMENT CONSIDERATIONS: CHOICE OF DIABETES THERAPEUTIC AGENT Special consideration should also be given to the non-glycemic effects of hypoglycemic agents, including specific side effects and the impact on weight. Although weight reduction is associated with improvement in glycemic and metabolic profile in people with T2DM and is a key consideration in the choice of therapy, significant weight loss would usually be an unwanted effect in the oncology population. Indeed, weight gain is often used as a metric of improving nutritional state, especially in cancer related cachexia. This also has implications when counselling people with cancer about dietary choices when there is an additional cancer diagnosis. It is imperative that personalized advice is offered by healthcare professionals considering the global impact on the individual of any dietary or even lifestyle advice. Sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors and Glucagon-Like-Peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP1-RA), for their potential weight reduction effects, are therefore less attractive options in the oncology setting. Insulin and sulfonylureas, on the other hand, offer an anabolic effect and therefore may be more desirable. Gastrointestinal side effects are common among hypoglycemic agents including metformin and GLP-1 receptor agonists (RA), and have the potential to complicate issues with nausea, vomiting, and oral intake from the underlying cancer and its treatment. GLP-1-RA are contraindicated in people who have a history or predisposition towards medullary thyroid cancer ( 133 ). Contrarily, recent data show that use of GLP1-RAs are associated with a reduced risk of developing colorectal, pancreatic, ovarian, esophageal, gallbladder, endometrial, kidney, liver and pancreatic cancers ( 134 - 136 ). Further evidence is needed before GLP1-RA can be strongly recommended in guidelines for cancer prevention (or indeed cancer disease burden/progression reduction). Similarly, poor oral intake and nephrotoxic effects of certain SACT, added to a potential osmotic diuretic effect of SGLT2 inhibitors, could also increase the risk of acute kidney injury. The associated risk of genital tract infections with SGLT2 inhibitors would also be an additional consideration especially within an immunocompromised population ( 137 ). The impact and significance of these non-glycemic effects in the oncology population
