Carney Complex
KEYWORDS: cnc, carney, pubmed, complex, tumors, carney complex, patients, myxomas, stratakis, free, lesions, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc


Spotty pigmentation of the face. With permission http://ugen.nichd.nih.gov. This syndrome was first described by J. Carney in 1985, as “the complex of myxomas, spotty pigmentation, and endocrine overactivity”. In the original study, 40 patients were included, and a familial distribution was reported in 10 of them. Additional evidence for unifying this coexistence of otherwise rare conditions in an inherited clinical entity was the young age at presentation and the unusual type of involvement of most affected sites, which tended to be multicentric (heart and skin) and bilateral in paired organs (adrenal, breast, and testis) ( 2 ). One year later Carney reported observations consistent with Mendelian dominant inheritance of the syndrome ( 3 ) that in the meanwhile was designated as “Carney complex” (CNC) by Bain ( 4 ). This new entity included patients manifesting cardiocutaneous lesions, previously diagnosed as LAMB (lentigines, atrial myxoma, mucocutaneous myxoma, blue nevi) ( 5 ) and NAME (nevi, atrial myxoma, myxoid neurofibroma, ephelides) ( 6 ). In 1996, linkage analysis studies by Stratakis et al. ( 7 ) demonstrated a locus potentially linked to CNC on chromosome 2p16, in proximity to the gene encoding proopiomelanocortin and the DNA-mismatch repair genes hMSH2 and hMSH6 . However, the syndrome was later shown to be genetically heterogeneous ( 8 ), and in 1998, a second possible locus located on chromosome 17q2 was detected ( 9 ). In 2000, two different research teams demonstrated that germline mutations in the gene coding the alpha regulatory subunit (R1a) of protein kinase A (PKAR1A) located on the locus 17q22-24 were responsible for several phenotypes of CNC ( 10 , 11 ). More recently, mutations of other genes, which encode the catalytic subunit α or β of the PKA, and phosphodiesterases 11A and 8B have been reported in CNC patients ( 1 ). Nowadays, diagnosis of the syndrome is feasible in clinically asymptomatic patients by commercially available molecular genetic assays and next-generation sequencing techniques. Notably, Carney’s complex should not be confused with Carney’s triad, a completely different entity consisting of the triad of gastric leiomyosarcoma, pulmonary chondroma, and extra-adrenal paraganglioma. EPIDEMIOLOGY AND INHERITANCE Carney’s complex is a rare disease and the majority of cases have been registered by the NIH-Mayo Clinic (USA) and the Cochin Center (Paris, France) consortium ( 12 , 13 ). Approximately 70% of individuals diagnosed with CNC have a familial history, while the remaining 30% present as a
