Carney Complex
KEYWORDS: cnc, carney, pubmed, complex, tumors, carney complex, patients, myxomas, stratakis, free, lesions, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc


and the Cochin Center (Paris, France) consortium ( 12 , 13 ). Approximately 70% of individuals diagnosed with CNC have a familial history, while the remaining 30% present as a de novo germline mutation. In large series, a predilection of female over male gender has been observed (63% vs. 37% respectively), whereas there is no apparent predilection concerning ethnicity ( 14 ). CNC is inherited as a dominant trait, although transmission through a female affected parent is almost 5-fold more frequent than the male. A possible explanation for this discrepancy might be the fact that male patients often harbor Large Cell Calcified Sertoli Cell Tumors (LCCSCT), which may hamper fertility ( 15 ). Moreover, data from animal models correlate haploinsufficiency at the PRKR1A gene locus with male infertility, independently of LCCSCT ( 16 ). The median age of diagnosis is 20 years; however, in many cases, a diagnostic delay of decades is reported. In general, the penetrance of CNC is 70%-80% by the age of 40 years, as clinical manifestations accumulate during the lifespan. The maximum number of affected generations reported in one kindred is 5 ( 9 ). MOLECULAR GENETICS AND PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Hitherto, two loci have been principally involved in the genetics of CNC: 17q22-24 and 2p16. CNC1 Gene The CNC1 gene, located on 17q22-24, is 21 kb long and contains 11 exons, coding the regulatory subunit (R1a) of the protein kinase A ( PRKAR1A ), a protein of 384 amino acids ( 17 ). Protein Kinase A (PKA) is an enzyme involved in G protein-coupled intracellular pathways and serves as a mediator of c-AMP actions promoting cell metabolism, proliferation, and apoptosis. Its quaternary structure consists of 4 peptide chains that form a tetramer of two regulatory (R) subunits, each bound to one catalytic (C) subunit ( 18 ). So far four subtypes of regulatory (RIα, RIβ, RIIα, and RIIβ) and four subtypes of catalytic subunits (Cα, Cβ, Cγ, and Prkx) have been identified. A corresponding gene is coding each R (PRKR1A, PRKR1B, PRKR2A, PRKR2B) and each C subunit (PRKACA, PRKACB, PRKACG, PRKX) respectively ( 19 ). When c-AMP binds to the regulatory subunits, their conformation is altered, causing the dissociation of each active C subunit from the dimer with the corresponding R subunit. The free catalytic subunits then phosphorylate serine and threonine residues of proteins critical to the activation of downstream processes, such as cAMP response-binding protein (CREB)
