Carney Complex
KEYWORDS: cnc, carney, pubmed, complex, tumors, carney complex, patients, myxomas, stratakis, free, lesions, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc


with the corresponding R subunit. The free catalytic subunits then phosphorylate serine and threonine residues of proteins critical to the activation of downstream processes, such as cAMP response-binding protein (CREB) ( Figure 2 ). Figure 2. The G protein-coupled intracellular pathways and the defect in CNC patients: PRKAR1A mutations result in deficient / inefficient regulatory subunits, resulting in constitutional activation of C subunits (https://prkar1a.nichd.nih.gov). Heterozygous inactivating mutations of PRKAR1A have been detected in more than 70% of affected individuals. Interestingly, in patients presenting with Cushing's syndrome (CS) this frequency rises to about 80%. ( 20 ). Up to date, 140 different PRKAR1A mutations have been registered at the CNC consortium database ( https://prkar1a.nichd.nih.gov ), and they are distributed among the 11 exons of the PRKAR1A gene, showing a predilection for exons 2, 3, 5 and 7, which are more often mutated, whereas exon 1, is non-coding and rarely mutated. Most of them are family or patient-specific; however, certain hot-spot mutations have been identified such as the c.709- 7del6 in intron 7, c.491-492delTG in exon 5, and c.82C > T in exon 2 ( 21 ). The penetrance for CNC due to PRKAR1A mutations is higher than that encountered in CNC due to other genetic defects, reaching 98% ( 12 ). The vast majority of mutations (83%) lead to a premature stop codon (nonsense) and thus, short mutant mRNAs that are eliminated by selective degradation, a phenomenon known as nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD) ( 17 ). The result is a lack of detectable mutant protein and a reduction of RIα protein levels by 50%. The rest of the mutations (17%) result in the expression of an altered protein (missense) that may be associated with more severe phenotypes ( 22 ). Large PRKAR1A deletions have also been detected in a proportion of CNC patients, who also express a more severe phenotype with unusual features. These deletions are more prominent (21.6%) among patients negative by conventional Sanger sequencing, rendering array-based studies necessary for diagnostic confirmation of such cases ( 23 ). The structure of the PRKR1A gene and the location of detected mutations are shown in Figure 3 . Figure 3. Schematic presentation of the PRKR1A gene and detected mutations in relation to their exon location. Germline haploinsufficiency of PRKAR1A leads to a deficiency of the R1a subunits, which in turn results in enhanced intracellular signaling by PKA due to unhindered activation of
