Carney Complex
KEYWORDS: cnc, carney, pubmed, complex, tumors, carney complex, patients, myxomas, stratakis, free, lesions, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc


their exon location. Germline haploinsufficiency of PRKAR1A leads to a deficiency of the R1a subunits, which in turn results in enhanced intracellular signaling by PKA due to unhindered activation of the catalytic (C) subunits, as evidenced by an almost 2-fold greater response to c-AMP in CNC tumors and cell lines ( 24 , 25 ). How this PKA overactivity leads to tumor development has not been fully elucidated. According to previous studies, PKA-enhanced activity may trigger pathways that favor cell proliferation as the upregulation of D-type cyclins ( 26 ) or activation of the mTOR pathway ( 27 ). Recent studies in adrenocortical cell lines have confirmed the accumulation of cyclin D1 and further suggest Bcl-xL upregulation, which is associated with resistance to apoptosis ( 28 ). Consistent with the Knudson two-hit model of hereditary tumorigenesis, PRKAR1A haploinsufficiency (first hit) has been considered as a predisposition for tumorigenesis, which when combined with loss of heterozygosity (LOH) at 17q22- 24 (second hit), may lead to the development of tumors in CNC patients ( 29 ). Interestingly, tumors that do not present inactivation of the remaining wild-type allele have also been described, implying that the coexistence of PRKAR1A haploinsufficiency with defects of other tumor suppressor genes or proto-oncogenes may act synergistic for tumorigenesis ( 30 ). Accordingly, activating somatic mutations of the beta-catenin gene (CTNNB1) have been detected in adrenocortical tumors of CNC patients, carriers of a PRKAR1A mutation ( 31 ). These findings were supported by experiments on Prkar1a +/- knockout mice, the genotypic animal model of Carney’s complex. These mice were developed by inserting an antisense transgene for Prkar1a exon 2 and present with many of the manifestations of CNC, such as adrenocortical hyperplasia with cortisol hypersecretion, thyroid follicular neoplasia non-pigmented schwannomas and bone lesions ( 32 ). On the contrary, mice with complete loss of Prkar1a were not viable as this genotype leads to early embryonic demise due to failure of heart tube development ( 33 ). Eventually, the development of thyroid and pituitary cell tumors as well as heart myxomas was achieved by inducing tissue-specific complete ablation of Prkar1a ( 34 , 35 ). Moreover, mice double heterozygote for Prkar1a and Trp53 or Rb1 developed more sarcomas and grew more, and larger pituitary and thyroid tumors compared to the single Prkar1a heterozygotes ( 36 ). Other Loci Approximately 30% of the families affected with CNC are not related
