Carney Complex
KEYWORDS: cnc, carney, pubmed, complex, tumors, carney complex, patients, myxomas, stratakis, free, lesions, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc


grew more, and larger pituitary and thyroid tumors compared to the single Prkar1a heterozygotes ( 36 ). Other Loci Approximately 30% of the families affected with CNC are not related to defective PRKAR1A. The putative “CNC2” gene located at the 2p16 locus is linked to the majority of them; nevertheless, it has not yet been identified. These patients present with a milder phenotype, they are diagnosed later in life and are usually sporadic cases. Initial studies demonstrated amplification of a 10 Mb region at the 2p16–23 locus in PRKAR1A-negative CNC patients. Moreover, somatic alterations of the 2p16 region have been reported in CNC tumors which are usually gene amplifications, whereas, tumor-specific LOH has not been a consistent feature of CNC2 ( 37 ). These data suggested that the gene located at 2p16 is a potential oncogene that may code a PKA catalytic subunit. Recently, alterations of PRKACA and PRKACB resulting in a gain of function of the catalytic subunits α and β of PKA respectively, have been associated with components of CNC ( 38 , 39 ). Similarly, inactivating mutations of the phosphodiesterase 11A (PDE11A) gene (located at 2q31.2) and PDE8B, which result in augmented cAMP signaling, have been demonstrated in isolated PPNAD patients ( 40 , 41 ), while CNC patients present a high frequency of PDE11A sequence variants ( 42 ). GENOTYPE AND PHENOTYPE CORRELATIONS Efforts have been made to relate specific phenotypes to corresponding genotypes. A study analyzing 353 patients and 80 different genotypes demonstrated that individuals carrying a PRKAR1A mutation tended to present manifestations earlier and were more likely to have pigmentary disorders, myxomas, and thyroid as well as gonadal tumors. Mutations located in exons were more often associated with acromegaly, myxomas, lentigines, and schwannomas, while intronic mutations had a less serious phenotype ( 21 ). As most of the identified PRKAR1A mutations are nonsense and lead to a lack of detectable mutant protein due to NMD, no genotype-phenotype correlations are expected to be seen. However, specific hot-spot mutations show some genotype-phenotype correlation, such as c.709-7del6, which is associated with the development of PPNAD and c.491-492del, which is frequently associated with cardiac myxomas, lentigines, and thyroid tumors. Regarding those few missense mutations that lead to the expression of a mutant protein, they are related to more severe forms of CNC syndrome, suggesting that NMD may play a protective role against the deleterious effects of mutant products
