Carney Complex
KEYWORDS: cnc, carney, pubmed, complex, tumors, carney complex, patients, myxomas, stratakis, free, lesions, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc


who succumb from early cardiovascular sudden death: complications due to cardiac myxoma (myxoma emboli, cardiomyopathy, cardiac arrhythmia, surgical intervention) comprise the major factor of mortality for CNC patients ( 43 ). Other less important factors are metastatic or intracranial PMS, thyroid carcinomas, and metastatic pancreatic and testicular tumors ( 1 , 44 ). Cutaneous Pigmentary Disorders These lesions may appear either as multiple lentigines or as blue nevi. They may be present at birth; however, they acquire their typical intensity and distribution around puberty when they increase in number and appear anywhere on the body. Typically, they fade after the fourth decade, although they have been reported in individuals as old as 70 years. Occasionally café au lait spots and depigmented lesions may also be observed ( 47 ). LENTIGINES They are the most common cutaneous manifestation of CNC patients (70-75%) and usually present as multiple small (0.2 to 2 mm) brown to black macules that can practically appear on any part of the body with areas of confluence and foci of deeper pigmentation. They are typically located around the orifices of the body, such as on the vermilion border of the lips, on the eyelids, ears, and the genital area ( Figure 1 ). Macroscopically, lentigines are flat, poorly circumcised macules, though in African- Americans, they may be slightly raised, similar to nevi. They may look like solar lentigines; however, they differ as they develop predominantly in areas that have not been exposed to sunlight (e.g., genitalia) and do not change with sun exposure. Histologically, the hyperpigmentation of CNC lesions is associated with melanocytic hyperplasia and hypertrophy, rather than increased melanin production as observed in solar lentigines ( 47 ). BLUE NEVI These are larger lesions (up to 8 mm), blue to black, and dome-shaped. They are less common than lentigines but still represent the second most frequent skin manifestation in CNC. They may be multiple with a variable distribution. Histologically, they may present features of epithelioid, junctional, or even compound nevi. Epithelioid blue nevi, currently known as Pigmented Epithelioid Melanocytomas, comprise a class of uncommon melanocytic tumors of intermediate malignancy, which may frequently present lymph nodes metastasis but rarely disseminate to distant organs ( 48 ). Myxomas CUTANEOUS MYXOMAS The skin myxomas present as non-pigmented subcutaneous nodules with a smooth surface and may look white, flesh-colored, opalescent, or pink ( Figure 4 ). They are generally asymptomatic and
