Carney Complex
KEYWORDS: cnc, carney, pubmed, complex, tumors, carney complex, patients, myxomas, stratakis, free, lesions, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc


MYXOMAS The skin myxomas present as non-pigmented subcutaneous nodules with a smooth surface and may look white, flesh-colored, opalescent, or pink ( Figure 4 ). They are generally asymptomatic and appear up to the fourth decade. Myxomas can emerge on the face and trunk, while typical sights in CNC are the eyelids (the most common site), external ear canal, and nipples. Less common sites of myxoma formation include the oropharynx (tongue, hard palate, and pharynx) and the female genital tract (uterus, cervix, and vagina). Interestingly, hands and feet are preserved ( 47 ). Clinical diagnosis is quite difficult as they are often confused with common “skin tags” and other overgrowths, thus histological confirmation is usually required. Lesions can be localized to the upper dermis and subcutis and consist of polygonal to stellate dermal fibroblasts scattered singly or in non-encapsulated clusters against an abundant basophilic myxoid matrix ( 2 ). Although cutaneous myxomas have minimal impact on the clinical course of CNC, their recognition is crucial since they are the most specific manifestation of CNC and may herald the presence of a potentially fatal cardiac myxoma ( 49 ) Figure 4. Cutaneous myxoma on the right flank of a CNC patient. With permission from Dermatology Online Journal 2004; 10 ( 3 ): 11. CARDIAC MYXOMAS Although these tumors are benign, they are responsible for the majority of deaths (>50%) related to CNC mainly due to cardiovascular complications. In a recent prospective study of 319 CNC patients, 42.6% developed cardiac myxomas and the mean age at diagnosis was in the 3 rd decade of life, occasionally presenting as early as at 4 years. The risk of developing cardiac myxomas was elevated among patients already presenting thyroid lesions or breast myxomas. They can develop in any cardiac chamber, with a predilection in the left atrial septum, while they may be multiple and recurrent, therefore, their resection cannot guarantee a permanent cure. Almost half of the patients harboring a cardiac myxoma will experience recurrence, and the risk is increased among women, lasting up to 20 years after the initial detection ( 49 ). Of notice, the detection of an apparently sporadic cardiac myxoma should alert the physician, as CNC-associated myxomas represent a significant proportion (7%) of these rare tumors. However, there are significant differences between cardiac myxomas in CNC and their sporadic counterparts regarding their epidemiology, distribution, and biological behavior. Sporadic myxomas emerge most
