Carney Complex
KEYWORDS: cnc, carney, pubmed, complex, tumors, carney complex, patients, myxomas, stratakis, free, lesions, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc


(7%) of these rare tumors. However, there are significant differences between cardiac myxomas in CNC and their sporadic counterparts regarding their epidemiology, distribution, and biological behavior. Sporadic myxomas emerge most commonly in middle-aged women and are almost exclusively localized at the left atrial aspect of the interatrial septum, at the fossa ovalis. In addition, most of them are cured by surgical resection and do not recur ( 50 ). Heart myxomas typically present with a triad of symptoms: a) Symptoms related to myxoma embolization (e.g., stroke, peripheral artery occlusions), b) Heart failure due to reduced cardiac output (complete occlusion of a valvular orifice can lead to sudden death) c) Constitutional symptoms (emaciation, recurrent fevers) probably related to production of cytokines [e.g., interleukin (IL-6)], by the tumor ( 51 ). Their size ranges from a few millimeters to 8 cm in diameter and can be partially calcified. They can be depicted sonographically as isoechoic (compared with the heart wall) masses inside the cardiac chambers. They can be studied further with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), where they appear as hyperintense lesions on T2-weighted images ( 52 ). Histologically, the tumors have a gelatinous or hemorrhagic appearance and arise from a population of multipotent subendocardial mesenchymal precursor cells ( 53 ) BREAST MYXOMAS (MYXOID FIBROADENOMAS) These lesions are observed in about a fifth of women with Carney complex and are generally considered benign breast tumors. They usually occur in females after puberty and can be multicentric as well as bilateral ( Figure 5 ). Their size ranges from 2mm to 2cm in diameter and may be pink or white with a mucoid appearance. Physical examination of the breast is indicative of diffuse nodularity without dominant masses. Nipple discharge, breast skin abnormalities, or sentinel lymphadenopathy are not features of breast myxomas ( 54 ). Histologically, breast myxomas appear as lobulated mesenchymal lesions, characterized by accumulations of large amounts of ground substance in the lobules, as well as in the interlobular stroma. The tumors may or may not be encapsulated ( 2 ). Figure 5. Breast multiple myxomas in a patient with Carney complex. Mammogram (A), shows typical dense breasts in a younger woman with no evidence of tumor. However, in the fat-suppressed magnetic resonance image (B) shown on the right, the presence of multiple small myxomas is clearly seen. With permission http://ugen.nichd.nih.gov. When detected in mammography, they appear as well-defined, non-calcified, isodense, or hypodense
