Carney Complex
KEYWORDS: cnc, carney, pubmed, complex, tumors, carney complex, patients, myxomas, stratakis, free, lesions, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc


image (B) shown on the right, the presence of multiple small myxomas is clearly seen. With permission http://ugen.nichd.nih.gov. When detected in mammography, they appear as well-defined, non-calcified, isodense, or hypodense lesions. Occasionally, they may have an irregular contour, a worrisome finding that warrants fine-needle aspiration (FNA), even in proven CNC patients. However, the imaging modality of choice is MR mammography as it has greater sensitivity compared to ultrasonography or conventional mammography. The number of myxoid lesions depicted with this technique is usually numerous (more than 58 per breast in a case) and shows a homogeneous increase of the signal intensity, a situation characteristic of CNC, also referred to as “breast myxomatosis” ( 52 ). OSTEOCHONDROMYXOMAS Osteochondromyxomas or Carney bone tumors are rare myxomatous tumors of the bone that principally affect nasal sinuses and long bones. They have been described in a few cases (1-5%) and exhibit benign behavior; however, they can occasionally cause bone erosion and extend into soft tissues ( 55 ). Radiologically they can present as osteolytic lesions with aggressive periosteal new bone formation or as an expansive bone area with mixed sclerotic and lucent regions). These lesions often get the characteristic appearance of “ring sign”, which is evident in plain radiographs, computed tomography, and MRI and are quite specific for CNC ( 56 ). Complete resection of the tumor is usually curative. Experiments in rodents demonstrated the osteoblastic origin of the lesion and that the knockdown of PRKAR1A disrupts the differentiation of osteoblasts ( 56 , 57 ). Endocrine Tumors and Overactivity PPNAD (PRIMARY PIGMENTED NODULAR ADRENAL DYSPLASIA) PPNAD This is the endocrine disorder most frequently observed in individuals with CNC. It bilaterally affects the adrenal glands and, according to recent data, can cause clinically overt Cushing’s Syndrome in more than 50% of patients with CNC ( 45 ). However, autopsy studies have provided histological evidence that PPNAD is present in almost every CNC individual ( 2 ). In 12% of the CNC patients, isolated PPNAD is the only manifestation. A bimodal age distribution is observed: a first peak occurs during infancy, while a second one that includes the majority of cases takes place between the second and third decade of life. The median age at diagnosis is 34 years and it is predominantly observed in females (sex ratio 2.4:1) ( 44 ). Histologically, the adrenal cortex is dominated by small pigmented micronodules with an average size
