Carney Complex
KEYWORDS: cnc, carney, pubmed, complex, tumors, carney complex, patients, myxomas, stratakis, free, lesions, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc


is 34 years and it is predominantly observed in females (sex ratio 2.4:1) ( 44 ). Histologically, the adrenal cortex is dominated by small pigmented micronodules with an average size of less than 10mm ( Figure 6 ). Although not encapsulated, the nodules are sharply demarcated from the remainder of the cortex and most of them appear to originate deep in the cortex almost at the level of the medulla. A brown-pigmented substance, lipofuscin, is contained in many of the tumor cells and is responsible for the characteristic color of the lesions. Interestingly, tumor cells stain positively for neuroendocrine markers (e.g., Synaptophysin), while normal cortical cells don’t ( 58 ). Internodular cortical atrophy is typical, thus the overall weight of the adrenal gland remains more or less normal ( 2 ). Figure 6. Macroscopic and CT-scan findings in primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease (PPNAD). A: Macroscopic appearance of the adrenal gland where multiple pigmented micronodules are evident at the cut surface. B: Adrenal CT scan revealed a micronodule on the external limb of the left adrenal (see red arrow). Copyright © 2006 Bertherat; licensee BioMed Central Ltd. Radiological and scintigraphic findings are not specific, since the adrenals may appear bilaterally or unilaterally enlarged but in most cases, they appear normal ( 59 ). Computed Tomography (CT) is the most appropriate examination for depicting adrenal lesions in PPNAD. Particularly, images obtained with a slice thickness of 3 mm or less, before and after intravenous (IV) injection of contrast are preferable as they might reveal subtle contour irregularities and the presence of hypodense spots that correspond to small, pigmented nodules. The characteristic picture is that of “beads on a string” ( 52 ). The type of hypercortisolism observed in this disorder is that of ACTH-independent adrenal hyperfunction. However, demonstrating cortisol overproduction can be challenging because it may develop progressively over the years. Moreover, intermittent, or cyclic forms of hypercortisolism have been reported ( 60 ). Clinical manifestations are non-specific and similar to those observed in patients with Cushing syndrome (CS) of other etiologies (central obesity, hypertension, myopathy), with a predisposition to osteoporosis. A 6-day Liddle’s test (low dose dexamethasone for 2 days followed by high dose dexamethasone for 2 days) has been used for the distinction of PPNAD from CS caused by other primary adrenal disorders ( 61 ). A paradoxical increase of UFC and/or 17-hydroxysteroids of more than 50% on the
