Carney Complex
KEYWORDS: cnc, carney, pubmed, complex, tumors, carney complex, patients, myxomas, stratakis, free, lesions, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc


used for the distinction of PPNAD from CS caused by other primary adrenal disorders ( 61 ). A paradoxical increase of UFC and/or 17-hydroxysteroids of more than 50% on the second day after high-dose dexamethasone administration is indicative of PPNAD. However, recent reports have argued against the utility of Liddle’s test by demonstrating low sensitivity (39%) and specificity ( 45 ). Initial screening with overnight dexamethasone suppression test and urine free cortisol is suggested instead. Notably, reports from independent groups describe the development of adrenocortical cancer (ACC) in the context of CNC ( 62 , 63 ). In both reports, the patients carried PRKAR1A mutations and ACC developed on the background of PPNAD. This observation together with previous reports of benign macronodules (between 1 and 3.5 cm) in adrenal glands affected with PPNAD implies a continuum of tumorigenesis from adrenal hyperplasia to benign nodules, and then cancer, associated with alterations in other tumor suppressor genes apart from PRKAR1A ( 64 ). GROWTH HORMONE (GH)-SECRETING PITUITARY ADENOMAS (ACROMEGALY) Clinically evident acromegaly due to a pituitary GH-secreting tumor has been observed in approximately 10-12% of patients with CNC, whereas, gigantism, resulting from excessive GH secretion prior to puberty, is quite rare ( 44 ). Data from a recent prospective study, raise this figure to 18%, with a median age at diagnosis 34.5 years ( 45 ). The usual underlying pathology is a solitary pituitary adenoma, while cases of multiple adenomas or even diffuse somatomammotrope hyperplasia, a possible precursor of GH-producing adenomas, have been demonstrated in CNC patients ( 65 ) as well as in specific Prkr1a knockout mice ( 66 ). Pituitary adenomas usually stain positively for both GH and PRL and are occasionally accompanied by mild hyperprolactinemia ( 67 ). However, almost a third of CNC patients present asymptomatic disturbances of the somatotroph axis, without meeting the diagnostic criteria of acromegaly, even without pituitary MRI findings ( 45 ). THYROID NODULES Seventy-five percent of CNC patients present with thyroid nodules, most of them being benign, non-toxic follicular adenomas. Thyroid nodules usually appear during the first ten years of life in CNC patients. Occasionally, patients (~3%) present with papillary or follicular carcinoma, particularly after a long history of multiple thyroid adenomas ( 21 ). In contrast to experimental data and what is observed in CNC patients with adrenal and pituitary tumors, thyroid nodules do not appear to have a predilection for hyperfunction
