Carney Complex
KEYWORDS: cnc, carney, pubmed, complex, tumors, carney complex, patients, myxomas, stratakis, free, lesions, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc


21 ). In contrast to experimental data and what is observed in CNC patients with adrenal and pituitary tumors, thyroid nodules do not appear to have a predilection for hyperfunction ( 68 ). TESTICULAR TUMORS These tumors are of three types: A) Large Cell Calcifying Sertoli Cell Tumors (LCCSCT), B) Leydig cell tumors, and C) adrenocortical rest tumors. So far, the two latter types have been observed only in patients in whom LCCSCT had already been diagnosed. LCCSCTs are observed in 20-50% of affected CNC males at the time of presentation, however, most males will develop such tumors in their adult life ( 21 , 45 ). These tumors are rarely observed in sporadic forms (<1% of testicular tumors), however, they are common in syndromes such as CNC and Peutz-Jeghers, where they are often multicentric and bilateral. They are almost always benign; malignancy has been rarely reported, particularly in tumors exceeding 6 cm in diameter. Nevertheless, their local expansion results in the replacement and compression of the normal testicular tissue ( 69 ). Occasionally (25%), LCCSCT may be hormone-producing and demonstrate increased P-450 aromatase expression ( 15 ). LCCSCT often presents as rock-hard and non-tender testicular masses and in ultrasonography, they appear as heterogeneous lesions of increased echogenicity with large areas of calcification ( 70 ). Macroscopically they are well-demarcated, yellow, and calcified tumors. Clinically, these hormone-producing tumors may cause sexual precocity in young males with low gonadotropin levels, as well as gynecomastia that may result from aromatase overactivity. Typically, fertility is impaired due to obstruction of the seminiferous tubules ( 16 ). Leydig cell tumors and adrenocortical rests are both steroid-producing tumors and macroscopically are quite similar, characterized by a brownish hue and relatively soft texture. Leydig cell tumors may show malignant behavior, thus radical resection has been typically recommended. On the contrary, adrenal rests are benign lesions that do not require resection but can lead to recurrent Cushing’s syndrome after adrenalectomy ( 71 ). The histological distinction between these two types of tumors can be difficult and a useful feature is the detection of crystalloids of Reinke that are present solely in Leydig cell tumors. However, these crystalloids are not a constant finding. In such case, testicular vein sampling can be helpful, as it may demonstrate cortisol gradient between peripheral and testicular venous blood. OVARIAN LESIONS Eight to 14% of female patients with CNC may present with ovarian
