Carney Complex
KEYWORDS: cnc, carney, pubmed, complex, tumors, carney complex, patients, myxomas, stratakis, free, lesions, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc


sampling can be helpful, as it may demonstrate cortisol gradient between peripheral and testicular venous blood. OVARIAN LESIONS Eight to 14% of female patients with CNC may present with ovarian lesions, either cystic or solid tumors of the ovarian surface epithelium, such as serous cystadenomas and teratomas. The percentage of ovarian lesions rises up to 60% in autopsy series ( 72 ). Ovarian cysts are usually clinically insignificant, whereas, tumors may progress, occasionally, to ovarian carcinoma, particularly in the elderly. Psammomatous Melanotic Schwannomas Psammomatous Melanotic Schwannomas (PMS) are encapsulated tumors of the peripheral nerve sheath and are observed in less than 10% of individuals with CNC, usually in the fourth decade of life ( 21 ). Other hereditary syndromes that may present with PMS are neurofibromatosis and isolated familial schwannomatosis. Schwannomas in CNC are heavily pigmented and present frequently with calcifications and multicentricity. Their dark, brownish pigmentation is attributed to elongated spindle-shaped Schwann cells with melanogenic potential. Calcifications are encountered in a laminated form called psammomas and may be accompanied by hemorrhage and necrosis ( 73 ). PMS can develop anywhere in the central and peripheral nervous system; however. the most frequent locations are the nerves of the gastrointestinal tract and the paraspinal sympathetic chain (28% of cases). Other sights involved are the chest wall with involvement of the adjacent ribs and the trigeminal ganglion. The initial presentation is usually characterized by local compression; whenever located in the gastrointestinal tract or within soft tissues they may evoke pain and discomfort. If they develop in the spine they may present as radiculopathy. Schwannomas are among the most difficult tumors to treat, especially when they emerge around nerve roots along the spine, a location that makes excision not feasible. In addition, in rare cases (10%), they can be malignant and then often metastasize to the lungs, liver, or brain ( 74 ). Unfortunately, there is a paucity of effective treatments for metastatic PMS. Promising results have been recently published for the combination of the check-point inhibitor Nivolumab along with concurrent external beam radiotherapy ( 75 ). Other Manifestations Apart from the major clinical manifestations, there are many other features suggestive of CNC, however, they are not present in a constant manner to set the diagnosis ( 44 ). These features are listed in Table 2 . Table 2. Findings Suggestive or Possibly Associated with CNC, but Not Diagnostic for the Disease. View
