Carney Complex
KEYWORDS: cnc, carney, pubmed, complex, tumors, carney complex, patients, myxomas, stratakis, free, lesions, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc


set the diagnosis ( 44 ). These features are listed in Table 2 . Table 2. Findings Suggestive or Possibly Associated with CNC, but Not Diagnostic for the Disease. View in own window 1. Intense freckling (without darkly pigmented spots or typical distribution). 2. Blue nevus, usual type (if multiple). 3. Café-au-lait spots or other "birthmarks". 4. Elevated IGF-I levels, abnormal OGTT, or paradoxical GH responses to TRH testing in the absence of clinical acromegaly. 5. Cardiomyopathy. 6. Pilonidal sinus. 7. History of Cushing’s syndrome, acromegaly, or sudden death in extended family. 8. Multiple skin tags and other skin lesions; lipomas. 9. Colonic polyps (usually in association with acromegaly). 10. Hyperprolactinemia (usually mild and almost always in association with clinical or subclinical acromegaly). 11. Single, benign thyroid nodule in a young patient; multiple thyroid nodules in an older patient (detected by ultrasonography). 12. Family history of carcinoma, in particular of the thyroid, colon, pancreas, and ovary; other multiple benign or malignant tumors. Breast ductal adenomas are benign tumors of the mammary gland ducts that may also develop in the context of CNC and can be multiple and bilateral as well. Coexistence with breast myxomas can be observed ( 54 ). They are palpable, painless masses that usually appear near the areola and can produce bloody nipple discharge. Radiologically their appearance varies from well-delineated and spherical to completely irregular lesions and they always contain calcifications ( 52 ). These calcifications may be coarse (typically benign) or microcalcifications, which are often encountered in adenocarcinomas. Moreover, a possible association between CNC and breast cancer has been demonstrated in the most recent prospective study, affecting up to 13.5% of female patients at an unusually young age (<50 years) ( 45 ). Consequently, the differential diagnosis is difficult, and FNA is always recommended. Other tumors reported in around 2,5-4,5% of CNC patients are pancreatic neoplasms including acinar cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, and intraductal pancreatic mucinous neoplasia ( 45 , 76 ). In addition, CNC is associated with increased detection of liver lesions, including hepatocellular adenomas, carcinomas, and fibrolamellar carcinomas ( 77 , 78 ). DIAGNOSIS The diagnosis of CNC is principally set by clinical criteria and can be confirmed by molecular testing, which has a mutation detection rate of approximately 60-70%. Genetic testing currently can only be recommended either as an adjunctive test for individuals who meet the clinical criteria or for the detection of affected
