Carney Complex
KEYWORDS: cnc, carney, pubmed, complex, tumors, carney complex, patients, myxomas, stratakis, free, lesions, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc


detection rate of approximately 60-70%. Genetic testing currently can only be recommended either as an adjunctive test for individuals who meet the clinical criteria or for the detection of affected members of families where the index case harbors a known mutation, in order to avoid unnecessary medical surveillance of non-carriers ( 1 ). The following clinical criteria were initially proposed in 1998, were revised in 2001, and have not been modified since then. They yield a sensitivity of nearly 98%. They include 12 clinical manifestations that set the major criteria for diagnosis, as well as 2 supplemental criteria regarding molecular testing and family history. At least two major criteria need to be present to establish the diagnosis of CNC and their occurrence has to be confirmed either biochemically, histologically, or by imaging as indicated. In the presence of one supplemental criterion, a single clinical manifestation is sufficient to establish the diagnosis ( 44 ). MAJOR CRITERIA Skin pigmentation disorders 1. Spotty skin pigmentation with a typical distribution (vermilion border of the lips, conjunctiva, and inner or outer canthi, vaginal and penile mucosa). 2. Blue nevus, epithelioid blue nevus (multiple).* Myxomas 3. Cutaneous and mucosal myxomas.* 4. Cardiac myxomas.* 5. Breast myxomatosis* or fat-suppressed magnetic resonance imaging findings suggestive of this diagnosis. 6. Osteochondromyxoma.* Endocrine tumors / Overactivity 7. Primary pigmented nodular adrenal dysplasia (PPNAD)* or a paradoxical positive response of urinary glucocorticosteroids to dexamethasone administration during Liddle’s test. 8. Acromegaly due to GH-producing adenoma or evidence of excess GH production. 9. Large-Cell Calcifying Sertoli Cell Tumor (LCCSCT)* or characteristic calcification on testicular ultrasonography. 10. Thyroid carcinoma* or multiple, hypoechoic nodules on thyroid ultrasonography, in a young patient. Miscellaneous 11. Psammomatous Melanotic Schwannoma.* 12. Breast ductal adenoma.* * histologically confirmed. Supplemental Criteria 1. Affected first-degree relative. 2. Inactivating mutation of the PRKAR1A gene. MANAGEMENT So far, no evidence-based monitoring schedule has been established for CNC; however, clinical work-up for all the manifestations of CNC should be performed at least once a year in all patients, and asymptomatic known mutation carriers, should start in infancy. Surveillance Prepubertal children should be screened as follows: Cardiac ultrasound should start as soon as the diagnosis is made, based either on clinical or genetic grounds, and be performed at least once a year thereafter. In patients with a history of cardiac myxoma, screening should be more frequent, optimally every 6 months, due to the increased risk
