Carney Complex
KEYWORDS: cnc, carney, pubmed, complex, tumors, carney complex, patients, myxomas, stratakis, free, lesions, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc


be performed at least once a year thereafter. In patients with a history of cardiac myxoma, screening should be more frequent, optimally every 6 months, due to the increased risk of recurrence ( 49 ). Patients should undergo an initial thyroid ultrasound within the first decade of age, and then repeated according to findings. Screening for the other manifestations should be performed in patients under 5 years of age only by clinical examination. Especially for males, testicular ultrasonography is recommended at the initial evaluation and if microcalcifications are present it should be repeated yearly. Regarding ovarian and breast imaging of female patients, these may be deferred until after puberty ( 1 ). Pubertal staging and growth rate should be monitored as pediatric patients with CNC may present with failure to thrive, a possible outcome of various CNC components, such as Cushing’s syndrome due to PPNAD or hepatic involvement ( 79 ). On the other hand, the presence of a functional LCCSCT may be associated with growth and maturation acceleration. In post-pubertal adolescents and adults, the following investigations should be performed at initial diagnosis and annually thereafter, including screening for: Cardiac myxomas by echocardiography, which if positive, should be repeated bi-annually. The possibility of first occurrence decreases with age and is exceptional after the age of 50 ( 49 ). PPNAD by measurement of urinary free cortisol, ACTH, and overnight suppression with 1 mg Dexamethasone, followed by a formal Low Dose Dexamethasone Test if abnormal. If this suggests cortisol hypersecretion, the diagnosis may be supported by a 6-day Liddle’s test and an adrenal CT scan. Acromegaly by measurement of serum GH, PRL, and Insulin-Like-Growth-Factor I (IGF I). In case of abnormal findings, confirmation of GH hypersecretion with an oral glucose suppression test (OGTT) and imaging of the pituitary region with MRI is suggested. Thyroid nodules by ultrasonography and further evaluation with FNA as needed, according to the relevant guidelines for the general population. LCCSCT in males by testicular ultrasound, especially when small-sized calcifications are found. Follow-up may be less frequent than annual due to the slow progression of these tumors ( 45 ). PMS with spine MRI once at baseline and thereafter when clinical signs suggest the presence of this tumor. Breast myxomas as well as ductal adenomas in females should be screened and followed up in the context of screening for breast cancer including self-examination, clinical evaluation, mammography, and ultrasound,
