Carney Complex
KEYWORDS: cnc, carney, pubmed, complex, tumors, carney complex, patients, myxomas, stratakis, free, lesions, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc


Breast myxomas as well as ductal adenomas in females should be screened and followed up in the context of screening for breast cancer including self-examination, clinical evaluation, mammography, and ultrasound, starting earlier than in the general population, maybe earlier than the age of 40 ( 45 ). In the case of findings, MRI of the breast is more sensitive in mapping the lesions ( 52 ). Ovarian lesions by transabdominal ultrasonography during the first evaluation. The test should be repeated due to the low risk of ovarian malignancy ( 72 ). Treatment As CNC is generated by a constitutional genetic defect, no etiologic therapy is available yet. The therapeutic approach should target each clinical manifestation and treat accordingly. Cardiac myxomas require surgical removal. However, due to the high recurrence rate, re-operation is usually indicated ( 49 ). Cutaneous and mammary myxomas may be surgically removed, mainly for cosmetic and/or diagnostic purposes. Regarding PPNAD, bilateral adrenalectomy has been typically suggested if overt Cushing’s syndrome is evident. Some institutions though have reported treatment with a low dose regimen (0,5-4 g daily) of O,p'-dichlorodiphenyldichloroethane (Mitotane) ( 80 , 81 ) with long term effects; however, the possible significant adverse events of such an approach should be considered. LCCSCT has been traditionally treated with orchiectomy; however, the fact that these tumors often occur bilaterally and are grossly benign has raised an issue to consider treatment options that might preserve fertility. Such an approach is testicular-sparing surgery, followed by strict monitoring of growth and pubertal staging and administration of anti-estrogen drugs in case of recurrence ( 82 ). Alternatively, successful treatment of prepubertal gynecomastia and growth acceleration by exclusively using aromatase inhibitors has been reported; however long-term efficacy and safety data are still lacking ( 83 ). Similarly, management of Leydig tumors, which often present as small non-palpable testicular lesions, tends to change with the implementation of advanced imaging modalities (magnetic resonance, contrast-enhanced ultrasonography, strain elastography) which may allow a more conservative approach, including surveillance and testis-sparing surgery ( 84 ). Pituitary adenomas should be removed by transsphenoidal or transcranial approach, according to their size and extension as in sporadic tumors. Alternatively, long-term medical treatment can be offered. Thyroid nodules should be evaluated and treated surgically according to current guidelines. PMS: surgery to remove primary and/or metastatic lesions. Genetic Counseling Genetic analysis may be suggested for CNC index cases, taking into consideration the fact that
