Carney Complex
KEYWORDS: cnc, carney, pubmed, complex, tumors, carney complex, patients, myxomas, stratakis, free, lesions, free article, article pubmed, article, pmc


surgically according to current guidelines. PMS: surgery to remove primary and/or metastatic lesions. Genetic Counseling Genetic analysis may be suggested for CNC index cases, taking into consideration the fact that the mutation detection rate of PRKR1A testing with standard sequencing is at present approximately 60%. Therefore, a negative test does not exclude CNC in an individual who meets clinical criteria. In such cases, copy number variant (CNV) analysis by comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) and/or PRKAR1A gene deletion testing may be suggested to rule out a PRKAR1A defect. Currently, genetic diagnosis may be assisted by NGS techniques. If all testing for PRKAR1A defects is negative, screening for other candidate genes or loci, including the PRKACA, PRKACB and the phosphodiesterase 8 and 11 genes has been suggested. In those cases where a mutation is detected, genetic screening (specific sequencing) is recommended for first-degree relatives (parents, siblings, and offspring). In case of a positive test, mutation carriers should undergo the same follow-up and management as that suggested for CNC patients. The first cardiac ultrasound should be performed at the same time as the molecular testing. Genetic counseling should include the following general information: If a parent of the index case is affected, the risk to his siblings is 50%. On the contrary, in case of a de novo mutation, this risk falls to approximately 1%. Each child of an individual with CNC has a 50% chance of being affected. Fertility may be impaired in males with CNC. Contrary to male patients, CNC is not specifically associated with female infertility and successful pregnancies and deliveries of female CNC patients have been reported ( 85 ). Most tumors of CNC are in general benign except for thyroid nodules and schwannomas; however, they are associated with significant morbidity. Prenatal testing is available by chorionic villous sampling (CVS) at approximately ten to 12 weeks of gestation or amnioparacentesis at 15-18 weeks of gestation. Pre-implantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) is available for PRKAR1A mutation carriers and in conjunction with in-vitro fertilization allows the selection of disease-free embryos for implantation. FUTURE PERSPECTIVES Although remarkable progress has been made since CNC was first described, several issues need to be answered. There are still CNC families that do not carry a PRKAR1A gene mutation and cannot be assigned to CNC2 either. The CNC2 gene located at the 2p16 locus remains to be determined. Researchers put efforts in the search for a more
