VOLUME
KEYWORDS: world, health, permission, used, chapter, photo, bank, disease, world bank, interventions, diseases, control, creative, infectious, creative commons


DISEASE CONTROL PRIORITIES • THIRD EDITION Major Infectious Diseases DISEASE CONTROL PRIORITIES • THIRD EDITION Series Editors Dean T. Jamison Rachel Nugent Hellen Gelband Susan Horton Prabhat Jha Ramanan Laxminarayan Charles N. Mock Volumes in the Series Essential Surgery Cancer Mental, Neurological, and Substance Use Disorders Cardiovascular, Respiratory, and Related Disorders Major Infectious Diseases Injury Prevention and Environmental Health Child and Adolescent Health and Development Disease Control Priorities: Improving Health and Reducing Poverty DISEASE CONTROL PRIORITIES Budgets constrain choices. Policy analysis helps decision makers achieve the greatest value from limited available resources. In 1993, the World Bank published Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries (DCP1), an attempt to systematically assess the cost- effectiveness (value for money) of interventions that would address the major sources of disease burden in low- and middle-income countries. The World Bank’s 1993 World Development Report on health drew heavily on DCP1’s findings to conclude that specific interventions against noncommunicable diseases were cost-effective, even in environments in which substantial burdens of infection and undernutrition persisted. DCP2, published in 2006, updated and extended DCP1 in several aspects, including explicit consideration of the implications for health systems of expanded intervention coverage. One way that health systems expand intervention coverage is through selected platforms that deliver interventions that require similar logistics but deliver interventions from different packages of conceptually related interventions, for example, against car- diovascular disease. Platforms often provide a more natural unit for investment than do individual interventions. Analysis of the costs of packages and platforms—and of the health improvements they can generate in given epidemiological environments—can help to guide health system investments and development. DCP3 differs importantly from DCP1 and DCP2 by extending and consolidating the con- cepts of platforms and packages and by offering explicit consideration of the financial risk protection objective of health systems. In populations lacking access to health insurance or prepaid care, medical expenses that are high relative to income can be impoverishing. Where incomes are low, seemingly inexpensive medical procedures can have catastrophic financial effects. DCP3 offers an approach to explicitly include financial protection as well as the distribution across income groups of financial and health outcomes resulting from policies (for example, public finance) to increase intervention uptake. The task in all of the DCP volumes has been to combine the available science about interventions implemented in very specific locales and under very specific conditions with informed judgment to reach reasonable conclusions
