VOLUME
KEYWORDS: world, health, permission, used, chapter, photo, bank, disease, world bank, interventions, diseases, control, creative, infectious, creative commons


18 million people ; since 2006, threat to total eradication and remind us of the impor- mother-to-child transmission of HIV has been reduced tance of a “One Health” approach. to low levels, even in generalized epidemic settings At the same time, several epidemics and new patho- . Similarly, fewer children and adults die gens have emerged, including the swine flu (H1N1) from malaria, diarrheal diseases, and lower respiratory pandemic; the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome infections. Two infectious diseases are close to eradica- (MERS); the largest Ebola outbreak ever known in the tion: polio and dracunculiasis (Guinea worm disease). West African region where it had never caused an out- This third edition of the Disease Control Priorities break; and an epidemic of Zika and associated neurolog- (DCP3) comes at a pivotal moment for infectious disease ical disorders. In particular, the collective failure to control and research. Its chapters clearly demonstrate respond to the Ebola outbreak in a timely and coordi- that, despite the remarkable progress, infectious diseases nated fashion before it spiraled out of control—infecting in South Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa—but that an a wake-up call for the world. The disastrous impact of increasing range of highly cost-effective interventions the Ebola epidemic prompted an urgent rethinking of is available. how governments, nongovernmental organizations, and As this volume amply illustrates, innovations in the international organizations can better work to contain prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of infectious dis- emerging disease threats in an increasingly intercon- eases have been impressive. They include preexposure nected world. prophylaxis (PrEP) to prevent HIV infection, new forms It is, however, noteworthy that almost as many people of computer-based education for clinicians to manage in the three Ebola-affected West African countries died sexually transmitted infections, HPV vaccines to pre- from the disease’s disruption on increasing mortality vent cervical cancer, and a cure for hepatitis C. The new from HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria as from attention to viral hepatitis in this volume is most Ebola itself (Parpia and others 2016). These three dis- welcome, as greatly improved control is now technically eases, as well as diarrheal diseases and lower respiratory feasible—although the history of tuberculosis illustrates infections, continue to exact a heavy burden, particularly that a cure alone is insufficient to bring a disease under in Sub-Saharan Africa, where infectious diseases remain control. Much of the progress is due to political the leading cause of death. In 2015, over 1.8
