VOLUME
KEYWORDS: world, health, permission, used, chapter, photo, bank, disease, world bank, interventions, diseases, control, creative, infectious, creative commons


to bring a disease under in Sub-Saharan Africa, where infectious diseases remain control. Much of the progress is due to political the leading cause of death. In 2015, over 1.8 million and technical leadership, greatly increased funding, people worldwide died from tuberculosis (including xiii 0.4 million among people with HIV) ; whether people will accept and use the interventions, 1.1 million people from AIDS ; and an whether the interventions are affordable and work in estimated 429,000 people died from malaria (WHO various parts of the real world, and what the best way is 2016). In spite of real achievements in improved access to deliver them. to HIV treatment, over 2 million new infections occur If we are to reach the ambitious targets under the each year, with hardly any decline in new infections over Sustainable Development Goals, we must focus not only the past five years, and several subpopulations continue on delivery of innovation but also on “innovation of to be heavily affected. A critical review of current delivery.” One example might be new systems of com- HIV strategies may be needed to achieve the United munity-based treatment for tuberculosis to minimize Nations goals of ending the AIDS epidemic. Lower respi- transmission in health care settings. DCP3 helps us to ratory infections remain a major persistent cause of think about improving health care delivery models death in children. through its unique focus on packages of interventions, Many of these infectious diseases have sophisticated and on the interrelationships among different kinds of vaccines, diagnostics, and therapeutics available, but interventions, at both the policy level and in terms of the political, economic, and social factors limit the extent to outcomes across populations. which populations can benefit. Furthermore, in a world DCP3 is to be lauded for its focus on equity, recog- of growing resistance to antimicrobials and drug-resistant nizing that cost-effective intervention is not cost- infections, we need to continue to develop innovations effective if the financial burden falls on the poor. With in biomedicine. We also need to improve incentives for this DCP3 volume on major infectious diseases, we rational antibiotic use, antimicrobial stewardship, and have a highly pragmatic addition to the literature that increased acceptance of the importance of prevention to will help policy makers across the world make smarter avoid infection. decisions to improve health sustainably and equitably space, and the cost-effectiveness of interventions is old and new.
