Chapter
KEYWORDS: infections, helminth, control, schistosomiasis, infection, treatment, children, helminth infections, health, hookworm, sth, deworming, disease, school, morbidity


Helminth Infections: Soil-Transmitted Helminth Infections and Schistosomiasis Peter J. Hotez, Donald A. P. Bundy, Kathleen Beegle, Simon Brooker, Lesley Drake, Nilanthi de Silva, Antonio Montresor, Dirk Engels, Matthew Jukes, Lester Chitsulo, Jeffrey Chow, Ramanan Laxminarayan, Catherine Michaud, Jeff Bethony, Rodrigo Correa- Oliveira, Xiao Shuhua, Alan Fenwick, and Lorenzo Savioli Helminth infections caused by soil-transmitted helminths Soil-Transmitted Helminths (STHs) and schistosomes are among the most prevalent afflic- ThefourmostcommonSTHsareroundworm(Ascarislumbri- tions ofhumans who live in areas ofpoverty in the developing coides),whipworm(Trichuristrichiura),andtheanthropophilic world.The morbidity caused by STHs and schistosomes is most hookworms(NecatoramericanusandAncylostomaduodenale). commonly associated with infections of heavy intensity. RecentestimatessuggestthatA.lumbricoidesinfects1.221bil- Approximately 300 million people with heavy helminth infec- lionpeople,T.trichiura795million,andhookworms740million tions suffer from severe morbidity that results in more than (deSilvaandothers2003)(table24.1).Thegreatestnumbersof 150,000 deaths annually (Crompton 1999;Montresor and oth- STH infections occur in the Americas, China and East Asia, andSub-Saharan Africa.Strongyloides stercoralisis also a com- also impair physical and mental growth in childhood, thwart monSTHinsomeoftheseregions,althoughdetailedinforma- educational advancement,and hinder economic development. tionontheprevalenceof strongyloidiasisislackingbecauseof Because ofthe geographic overlap ofthese afflictions and their thedifficultiesindiagnosinghumaninfection.Thelifecyclesof Ascaris,Trichuris,andhookwormfollowageneralpattern.The Organization (WHO); the World Bank; and other United adult parasite stages inhabit the gastrointestinal tract (Ascaris Nations agencies,bilaterals,and civil society are working to inte- and hookworm in the small intestine; Trichuris in the colon), grate STH and schistosome control through a program ofperi- reproduce sexually, and produce eggs, which are passed in odic school-based,targeted anthelmintic drug treatments. humanfecesanddepositedintheexternalenvironment. STH infections rarely cause death. Instead, the burden of diseaseisrelatedlesstomortalitythantothechronicandinsid- CAUSES AND CHARACTERISTICS ious effects on the hosts’ health and nutritional status OF HELMINTH INFECTIONS (Stephenson,Latham,and Ottesen 2000; Stoltzfus and others 1997).Hookwormshavelongbeenrecognizedasanimportant Emphasis is placed on the four most common STH infections causeofintestinalbloodlossleadingtoirondeficiencyandpro- and the three most common schistosome infections.Together, teinmalnutrition.Theirondeficiencyanemiathataccompanies these infections account for most of the global helminth dis- moderateandheavyhookwormburdensissometimesreferred ease burden. to as hookworm disease (Hotez and others 2004). When host Table 24.1 Global Prevalence and Distribution of Helminth infection with S. japonicum, which occurs in parts of China Infections and the Philippines (Ross and others 2002).Two other schisto- some species are known to cause intestinal schistosomiasis in Helminth infections Total cases Major geographic areas restricted geographical areas:S.intercalatum,found in Central STH infections (cid:1)2 billion Africa, and S. mekongi, found in Cambodia and the Lao Ascariasis 1.221 billion Sub-Saharan Africa, India, People’s Democratic Republic.Schistosomiasis is estimated to China and East Asia affect 187 million people worldwide (table 24.1). Trichuriasis 795 million Sub-Saharan Africa, India, A serious acute illness accompanied by fever and lym- China
