Chapter
KEYWORDS: infections, helminth, control, schistosomiasis, infection, treatment, children, helminth infections, health, hookworm, sth, deworming, disease, school, morbidity


is estimated to China and East Asia affect 187 million people worldwide (table 24.1). Trichuriasis 795 million Sub-Saharan Africa, India, A serious acute illness accompanied by fever and lym- China and East Asia phadenopathy,known as Katayama Syndrome,can result from Hookworm 740 million Sub-Saharan Africa, Americas, heavy schistosome infections.Chronic disease is mostly due to China and East Asia perforation of blood vessels and entrapment of eggs by host Schistosomiasis 187 million tissues.The host’s reaction to entrapped eggs results in gran- S. haematobium 119 million Sub-Saharan Africa uloma formation. S. haematobium causes bladder wall S. mansoni 67 million Sub-Saharan Africa, Americas pathology,leading to ulcer formation,hematuria,and dysuria. S. japonicum 1 million China and East Asia Granulomatous changes and ulcers of the bladder wall and ureter can lead to bladder obstruction, dilatation, secondary Source:de Silva and others 2003. urinary tract infections and subsequent bladder calcification, renal failure,lesions ofthe female and male genital tracts,and hydronephrosis. S. haematobium is also associated with increased risk of bladder cancer. The morbidity commonly iron stores are depleted, the extent of iron deficiency anemia associated with S. mansoni infection includes lesions of the is linearly related to the intensity of hookworm infection liver, portal vein, and spleen, leading to periportal fibrosis, (Stoltzfus and others 1997).Because of their underlying poor portal hypertension, hepatosplenomegaly, splenomegaly, and ironstatus,children,womenofreproductiveage,andpregnant ascites. Schistosomiasis also causes chronic growth faltering womenarefrequentlytheonesmostsusceptibletodeveloping and can contribute to anemia (Ross and others 2002). hookworm anemia (Brooker,Bethony,and Hotez 2004).Iron deficiencyanemiaduringpregnancyhasbeenlinkedtoadverse maternal-fetalconsequences,includingprematurity,lowbirth- weight,andimpairedlactation(WHO2002). EPIDEMIOLOGY OF STH INFECTIONS Chronic STH infections resulting from Ascaris, Trichuris, ANDSCHISTOSOMIASIS and hookworm can dramatically affect physical and mental Themoststrikingepidemiologicalfeaturesofhumanhelminth development in children . Studies have also infectionsareaggregateddistributionsinhumancommunities, shown that the growth and physical fitness deficits caused by predispositionofindividualstoheavy(orlight)infection,rapid chronic STH infections are sometimes reversible following reinfectionfollowingchemotherapy,andage-intensityprofiles treatment with anthelmintic drugs (Stephenson,Latham,and thataretypicallyconvex(withtheexceptionofhookworm). Ottesen 2000).The effects on growth are most pronounced in For all the major human STH and schistosome infections children with the heaviest infections,but light infections may studied to date, worm burdens exhibit a highly aggregated also contribute to growth deficits ifthe nutritional status ofthe (overdispersed) distribution so that most individuals harbor community is poor (Stephenson,Latham,and Ottesen 2000). just a few worms in their intestines,although a few hosts har- bor disproportionately large worm burdens (Anderson and Schistosomiasis May 1991).As a rule,20 percent ofthe host population harbors Five major species of parasitic trematodes of the family approximately 80 percent of the worm population. This Schistosomatidae—Schistosoma haematobium,S.intercalatum, overdispersion has
