Chapter
KEYWORDS: infections, helminth, control, schistosomiasis, infection, treatment, children, helminth infections, health, hookworm, sth, deworming, disease, school, morbidity


May 1991).As a rule,20 percent ofthe host population harbors Five major species of parasitic trematodes of the family approximately 80 percent of the worm population. This Schistosomatidae—Schistosoma haematobium,S.intercalatum, overdispersion has many consequences,both with regard to the These parasites have a complex,indirect life cycle involving an sequence for the host,because heavily infected individuals are intermediate snail host.Disease is caused primarily by schisto- simultaneously at highest risk ofdisease and the major source some eggs,which are deposited by adult worms in the blood of environmental contamination. One feature that may help vessels surrounding the bladder or intestines.Urinary schisto- explain overdispersion is that individuals tend to be predis- somiasis,in which the bladder is affected,is caused by infection posed to heavy (or light) infections. Predisposition has been with S.haematobium,which occurs mainly in Africa.Intestinal demonstrated for all four major STHs and the schistosomes. schistosomiasis results from infection with S. mansoni,which The underlying cause of such predisposition remains poorly occurs in the Middle East,South America,and Africa,and from understood. However, a combination of heterogeneity in 468 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Peter J. Hotez, Donald A. P. Bundy, Kathleen Beegle, and others exposure to infection or differences in susceptibility to infec- a. Prevalence tion and the ability to mount effective immunity (genetic and Percentage infected nutritional factors) is likely to be important. People ofall ages rapidly reacquire infection following treat- ment,but in schistosomiasis,older people reacquire infection 90 at slower rates than younger ones (Kabatereine and others 80 1999). The rate of reinfection is specific to certain species of 70 helminths and depends on the life expectancy of that species (short-lived helminths reinfect more rapidly),on the intensity of transmission within a given community,and on the treat- ment efficacy and coverage. The basic reproductive rate (R ) 40 o describes the transmission potential ofa parasite (and thus its 30 ability to reinfect the host). It defines the average number of female offspring produced during the life span of the parasite that survive to reproductive maturity in the absence ofdensity dependence. R is determined by parasite immigration and o 0 10 20 30 40 50 death rates as well as by host density (and,inschistosomiasis, Age (years) also snail density). A parasite will fail to become established unless R is greater than unity (Anderson and May 1991).Adult A. lumbricoides Hookworm o T. trichiura S. haematobium worms usually survive between one and four years, whereas eggs can sometimes remain viable
