Chapter
KEYWORDS: infections, helminth, control, schistosomiasis, infection, treatment, children, helminth infections, health, hookworm, sth, deworming, disease, school, morbidity


is greater than unity (Anderson and May 1991).Adult A. lumbricoides Hookworm o T. trichiura S. haematobium worms usually survive between one and four years, whereas eggs can sometimes remain viable for several more years in the b. Intensity environment. Therefore, reinfection rates will remain high Mean number of worms until adults are removed with chemotherapy and until infective stages, through time, become uninfective. In reality, density- dependent processes regulate parasite populations;at endemic equilibrium,the effective reproductive ratio equals unity (that 90 is, each female replaces herself). Control programs rely on 80 reducing the effective reproductive ratio long enough for the 70 parasite population to be driven to local elimination. Theoretically, R provides useful insights, and it is helpful to o 50 think of control programs attempting to break the transmis- sion cycle by reducing R to less than unity. Therefore, o estimates can be madeabouthowlongandhowmanyrounds ofchemotherapyare required to treat intestinal helminths.For 20 example, A. lumbricoides with an R of three and a life 10 o expectancy of one year will need to be treated annually with 0 adrug that is 95 percent efficacious and with coverage ofmore 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 Age (years) than 91 percent of the population.Where R is five—that is, o in areas where transmission is higher—treatment must be A. lumbricoides Hookworm given more frequently than once a year (Anderson and May (worms (cid:2) 2) (worms (cid:2) 7) 1991). T. trichiura S. haematobium The age-dependent patterns ofinfection prevalence are gen- (actual numbers) erally similar among the major helminth species,exhibiting a Source: Bundy 1995; reproduced and modified from Hotez, Ardra, and others 2005. rise in childhood to a relatively stable asymptote in adulthood Figure 24.1 Age-Associated Prevalence and Intensity Profiles of (figure 24.1). Maximum prevalence of A. lumbricoides and STH and Schistosome Infections: Typical Age Profiles of Prevalence T.trichiurais usually attained before five years of age,and the and Intensity of STH Infections and Schistosomiasis maximum prevalence of hookworm and schistosome infec- tions is usually attained in adolescence or in early adulthood. linked to morbidity,the age-intensity profiles provide a clearer The nonlinear relationship between prevalence and intensity understanding of which populations are vulnerable to the has the consequence that the observed age-prevalence profiles different helminths (figure 24.1). For A. lumbricoides and provide little indicationofthe underlying profiles ofage inten- T. trichiura infections, the age-intensity profiles are typically sity (age in relation to worm burden).
