Chapter
KEYWORDS: infections, helminth, control, schistosomiasis, infection, treatment, children, helminth infections, health, hookworm, sth, deworming, disease, school, morbidity


different helminths (figure 24.1). For A. lumbricoides and provide little indicationofthe underlying profiles ofage inten- T. trichiura infections, the age-intensity profiles are typically sity (age in relation to worm burden). Because intensity is convex in form, with the highest intensities in children 5 to Helminth Infections: Soil-Transmitted Helminth Infections and Schistosomiasis | 469 15 years of age . For schistosomiasis, a convex Climate,Water,and Season. Adequate warmth and moisture pattern is also observed,with a similar peak but with a plateau are key features for each of the STHs. Wetter areas exhibit in adolescents and young adults 15 to 29 years of age increased transmission,and in some endemic areas,both STH (Kabatereine and others 1999). In contrast, the age-intensity and schistosome infections exhibit marked seasonality profile for hookworm exhibits considerable variation,although (Brooker and Michael 2000).Recent use ofgeographical infor- intensity typically increases with age until adulthood and then mation systems and remote sensing has identified the distribu- plateaus (Brooker,Bethony,and Hotez 2004).In East Asia it is tional limits ofSTH and schistosomes on the basis oftemper- also common to find the highest intensities among the elderly. ature and rainfall patterns (Brooker and Michael 2000). For However, more generally, children and young adults are at schistosomiasis,specific snail intermediate hosts prefer certain higher risk of both harboring higher levels of infection (thus types ofaquatic environments.Construction ofdams is known greater levels of morbidity) and becoming reinfected more to extend the range of snail habitats, thereby promoting the quickly.Both may occur at vital stages in a child’s intellectual reemergence ofschistosomiasis. and physical development. Risk Factors BURDEN OF THE DISEASE Both host-specific and environmental factors have been identi- fied that may affect the risk of acquiring or harboring heavy- The revised estimates in 2003 (de Silva and others 2003) use the intensity helminth infections. methodology developed by Chan and others (1994) and build on recent applications of geographical information systems to Genetics. No genes that control for human helminth infection derive updated atlases ofhelminth infections.To reflect recent have yet been identified. However, recent genome scans have changes in the epidemiology of infection,de Silva and others identified a locus possibly responsible for controlling S.man- used data from only 1990 onward. These data confirm that soni infection intensity on chromosome 5q31-33 and loci STH infections are the most prevalent infections of humans controlling A. lumbricoides intensity on chromosomes 1 and and that a large proportion of the population in developing 13. There is
