Chapter
KEYWORDS: infections, helminth, control, schistosomiasis, infection, treatment, children, helminth infections, health, hookworm, sth, deworming, disease, school, morbidity


STH infections are the most prevalent infections of humans controlling A. lumbricoides intensity on chromosomes 1 and and that a large proportion of the population in developing 13. There is also evidence for genetic control of pathology countries is at risk.Ofthe 187 million cases ofschistosomiasis attributable to S. mansoni, with linkage reported to a region estimated to occur worldwide,most are caused by S.haemato- containing the gene for the interferon gamma receptor 1 sub- biumin Sub-Saharan Africa (table 24.1). unit . WHO (2002) estimates that 27,000 people die annually from STH infections and schistosomiasis (case fatality rate of Behavior, Household Clustering, and Occupation. Specific 0.0014 percent).Many investigators,however,believe that this occupations,household clustering,and behaviors influence the figure is an underestimate. Crompton (1999) estimated that prevalence and intensity of helminth infections (Bethony and 155,000 deaths annually occur from these infections (case fatal- others 2001),particularly for hookworm,in which the highest ity rate of 0.08 percent), whereas Van der Werf and others intensities occur among adults (Brooker, Bethony, and Hotez (2003),using the limited data available from Africa,estimated 2004). Engagement in agricultural pursuits, for example, the schistosomiasis mortality alone at 280,000 per year (case remains a common denominator for hookworm infection. fatality rate of 0.014 percent) because of nonfunctioning Behavioral and occupational factors, through their effect on kidneys (from S. haematobium) and hematemesis (from S. water contact,interact with environmental factors to produce mansoni). Therefore, the difference between estimates for variation in the epidemiology ofschistosomiasis. helminth-associated mortality is more than 10-fold. Because it is uncommon for STHs and schistosomes to kill Poverty, Sanitation, and Urbanization. STH and schistoso- their human host,citing mortality figures provides only a small withegg-carryingfeces.Consequently,helminthsareintimately ease burden using disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) and associated with poverty, poor sanitation, and lack of clean similar tools portray a more accurate picture for helminthic water.The provision ofsafe water and improved sanitation are disease burden.WHO estimates the global burden of disease essential for the control of helminth infection. Although the from STH infections and schistosomiasis on the basis of the STH and schistosome infections are neglected diseases that enormous number of infected individuals, together with an occur predominantly in rural areas, the social and environ- associated low disability weight (Van der Werf and others mental conditions in many unplanned slums and squatter set- 2003). However, because an estimated 2 billion people are tlements ofdeveloping countries are ideal for the persistence of infected with STHs and schistosomes,even minor adjustments A.lumbricoides
