Chapter
KEYWORDS: infections, helminth, control, schistosomiasis, infection, treatment, children, helminth infections, health, hookworm, sth, deworming, disease, school, morbidity


slums and squatter set- 2003). However, because an estimated 2 billion people are tlements ofdeveloping countries are ideal for the persistence of infected with STHs and schistosomes,even minor adjustments A.lumbricoides (Crompton and Savioli 1993).Schistosomiasis to the disability weights produce enormous variations in transmission can also occur in urban areas. DALYs or other measurements ofdisease burden.This helps to 470 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Peter J. Hotez, Donald A. P. Bundy, Kathleen Beegle, and others explain why, for instance, in 1990 the disease burden for the malnutritionresultingfromhookwormdisease.Irondeficiency STH infections and schistosomiasis was almost 18 million anemia alone results in approximately 12 million DALYs lost DALYs,whereas the 2001 estimate was only 4.7 million DALYs. annually,makingittheworld’smostimportantnutritionprob- In the intervening 11 years,the DALYs were as low as 2.6 mil- lem. Data on the epidemiology of iron deficiency anemia in lion.Such disparities are substantial when one considers that EastAfricaandelsewherepointtotheimportantcontribution the 1990 estimate ranks helminths close to major disease enti- ofhookwormstothiscondition(Stoltzfusandothers1997).In ties such as tuberculosis, measles, and malaria, whereas the Tanzania,wherehosts’ironstoresareoftendepleted,thereisa lowest estimate during the 1990s ranks helminth infections on correlation between the number of adult hookworms in the a par with gonorrhea,otitis media,and iodine deficiency.The intestine and the amount of host blood loss (Stoltzfus and Disease Control Priorities Project helminth working group others1997).However,itisunclearwhethercurrentdisability has determined that the WHO global burden of disease weights effectively incorporate the full contribution of hook- estimates are low because they do not incorporate the full clin- worm to severe iron deficiency anemia among iron-depleted ical spectrum of helminth-associated morbidity and chronic populations or whether they take host protein losses and disability, including anemia, chronic pain, diarrhea, exercise malnutrition into account. There is increasing interest in the intolerance, and undernutrition (King, Dickman, and Tisch importanceofhookwormanemiainpreschoolchildren,espe- 2005).However,for this chapter,the average disability weights cially in Africa (Brooker, Bethony, and Hotez 2004), where estimated by WHO are used throughout.Some of the specific infantsandpreschoolchildrenareparticularlyvulnerabletothe controversies are described below. developmentalandbehavioraldeficitscausedbyirondeficien- cy anemia (Stephenson, Latham, and Ottesen 2000). Closer A. Lumbricoides and T. Trichiurainfections assessmentoftheimpactofhookwormonanotherimportant iron-deficient population—namely, women of reproductive Because the most significant physical and intellectual growth age—couldalsosignificantlyincreasecurrentDALYestimates. disturbances occur as a consequence of moderate and heavy Approximately44millionofthesewomenharborhookworms worm burdens, the age-associated epidemiology of A. (Bundy,Chan,andSavioli1995).Inaddition,severeanemiain lumbricoides and T. trichiura infections has focused attention pregnancy is associated with neonatal prematurity, reduced on infected school-age children in developing countries birthweight, and impaired lactation (Christian, Khatry, and .In a revised estimate ofthe probable number of
