Chapter
KEYWORDS: infections, helminth, control, schistosomiasis, infection, treatment, children, helminth infections, health, hookworm, sth, deworming, disease, school, morbidity


130,000 disease burden of iron deficiency anemia and protein per year. Helminth Infections: Soil-Transmitted Helminth Infections and Schistosomiasis | 471 COST-EFFECTIVENESS ANALYSIS tion.Sanitation is the only definitive intervention to eliminate OF INTERVENTIONS STH infections,but to be effective it should cover a high per- centage ofthe population.Therefore,because ofthe high costs Classifying Interventions involved, implementing this strategy is difficult where The three major interventions are anthelmintic drug treat- resources are limited (Asaolu and Ofoezie 2003). Moreover, even decades for sanitation to be effective (Brooker,Bethony, AnthelminticDrugTreatment. Anthelminticdrugtreatment and Hotez 2004). (“deworming”) is aimed at reducing morbidity by decreasing thewormburden.Repeatedchemotherapyatregularintervals Health Education. Health education is aimed at reducing (periodic deworming) in high-risk groups can ensure that transmission and reinfection by encouraging healthy behav- the levels of infection are kept below those associated with iors. For STH infections and schistosomiasis, the aim is to morbidity(figure24.2)andwillfrequentlyresultinimmediate reduce contamination of soil and water by promoting the use improvement in child health and development.Anthelmintic oflatrines and hygienic behavior.Without a change in defeca- drug treatment can prevent the development of irreversible tion habits,periodic deworming cannot attain a stable reduc- consequences of schistosomiasis in adulthood. For ascariasis tion in transmission.Health education can be provided simply and trichuriasis, for which intensity peaks among school-age and economically and presents no contraindications or risks. children, frequent and periodic deworming may reduce Furthermore, its benefits go beyond the control of helminth transmission over time.Obstacles that diminish the effective- infections. In this perspective, it is reasonable to include this nessofperiodicdewormingarethelowefficacyofsingle-dose component in all helminth control programs. mebendazoleandalbendazoleforthetreatmentofhookworm Other Control Measures. In specific epidemiological condi- andtrichuriasis,respectively(Adamsandothers2004;Albonico tions,environmental or chemical control ofsnails can be useful and others 1994); high rates of posttreatment reinfection for tools for reducing the transmission of schistosomiasis. STHsinareasofhighendemicity(Albonicoandothers1995); Research to develop new tools for control is in progress,includ- and diminished efficacy with frequent and repeated use ing vaccine development programs for hookworm infection (Albonico and others 2003),possibly because of anthelmintic and schistosomiasis (see “Research and Development”). resistance(seethesection“ResearchandDevelopment”). Choosing Interventions Improved Sanitation. Improved sanitation is aimed at con- trolling transmission by reducing soil and water contamina- Periodic deworming stands out as the most cost-effective means to reduce the morbidity of STH and schistosome infections. Albendazole administration Periodic Anthelmintic Therapy. Periodic anthelmintic ther- apy, or periodic deworming, represents the main measure in Prevalence (percent) areas where infections are intensely transmitted,resources for disease control are limited,and funding for sanitation is lack- ing. Drug treatment can be
