Chapter
KEYWORDS: infections, helminth, control, schistosomiasis, infection, treatment, children, helminth infections, health, hookworm, sth, deworming, disease, school, morbidity


periodic deworming, represents the main measure in Prevalence (percent) areas where infections are intensely transmitted,resources for disease control are limited,and funding for sanitation is lack- ing. Drug treatment can be administered in the community High to moderate intensity using different strategies: • Universal treatment. The entire community is treated, 40 irrespective of age, sex, infection status, and other Total prevalence characteristics. 20 • Targeted treatment. Treatment targets population groups, which may be defined by age,sex,or other social character- 0 istics,irrespective ofthe infectious status. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 • Selective treatment.Treatment targets individual-level appli- Time (months) cation ofanthelmintic drugs,which is selected on the basis Source: Albonico and others, forthcoming. ofeither diagnosis or a suspicion ofcurrent infection. Figure 24.2 Predicted Effect on Ascarisand TrichurisPrevalence Following Frequent and Periodic Dewormings with Benzimidazole Recommendeddrugsforuseinpublichealthinterventions Anthelmintics tocontrolSTHinfectionarethebenzimidazoleanthelmintics 472 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Peter J. Hotez, Donald A. P. Bundy, Kathleen Beegle, and others (BZAs),albendazole(singledose:400mg,reducedto200mgfor based deworming also has major externalities for untreated children between 12 and 24 months),or mebendazole (single childrenandthewholecommunity.Byreducingtransmission dose:500mg),aswellaslevamisoleorpyrantelpamoate(WHO inthecommunityofAscarisandTrichurisinfections,deworm- 2002). Praziquantel (PZQ) (single dose: 40–60 mg/kg) is the ingsubstantiallyimprovesthehealthandschoolparticipation majordrugusedforthetreatmentofschistosomiasis.However, of both treated and untreated children, both in treatment therapywithoxamniquinehasbeenthecornerstonefortreat- schools and in neighboring schools (Bundy and others 1990; ment of S. mansoni infection in South American national Miguel and Kremers 2003). controlprogramsoverthepast20years.Theefficacyofoxam- These observations provided a basis for the adoption ofres- better.TheBZAsandPZQareinexpensive;theyhaveundergone member states to ensure access to essential drugs for STH and extensivesafetytestingandhavebeenusedbymillionsofindi- schistosome infections in endemic areas for the treatment of viduals with only a few minor side effects.Drugs that do not clinical cases and groups at high risk for morbidity (box 24.1). needdosageaccordingtoweight,suchasBZAs(inschool-age To achieve this goal,WHO has developed a broad partnership children), are considered easier to use for population-based that promotes the incorporationof deworming into existing interventions;however,theuseofproxyindicators—forexam- institutions and programs,forboth the education sectors and implementationstrategyforPZQ(Hallandothers1999). launched in 2001 with the aim of mobilizingresources and promoting synergy among public and privateefforts for the Distribution Strategy and Frequency of Treatment. The control of soil-transmitted helminths and schistosomiasisat selection of the distribution strategy and the frequency of global and national levels. School-based deworming has its treatment is based on epidemiological data.The recommended full effect when delivered within an integrated school health strategy for helminth control is a population-based approach, program that includes elements of the Focusing Resources on in which individuals in targeted communities are
