Chapter
KEYWORDS: infections, helminth, control, schistosomiasis, infection, treatment, children, helminth infections, health, hookworm, sth, deworming, disease, school, morbidity


delivered within an integrated school health strategy for helminth control is a population-based approach, program that includes elements of the Focusing Resources on in which individuals in targeted communities are treated irre- Effective School Health (FRESH) framework. spective oftheir infection status .This strategy is justified for several reasons,including the simplicity and safety OtherAt-RiskPopulations. Notonlyschool-agechildrencan of delivering treatment. Individual diagnosis is difficult and benefit from treatment. Preschool children (one to five years expensive and offers no safety benefit. of age) are vulnerable to the developmental and behavioral The intrinsic transmission potential of the parasite species deficits caused by iron deficiency anemia,and recent analyses determines the frequency of treatment (see “Epidemiology of by Brooker, Bethony, and Hotez (2004) indicate that hook- STH Infections and Schistosomiasis,”earlier in this chapter).To wormisanimportantcontributortoanemiainthatagegroup control morbidity in areas ofintense transmission (prevalence (see“EstimatingInterventionEffectiveness”).Womenofrepro- greater than 70 percent and more than 10 percent ofmoderate- ductiveage(15to49yearsofage)areparticularlysusceptibleto and heavy-intensity infection), WHO (2002) recommends irondeficiencyanemiabecauseof ironlossduringmenstrua- treatment two or three times a year for STH infections.In areas tionandbecauseofincreasedneedsduringpregnancy(Bundy, with a lower intensity of transmission (prevalence between 40 Chan,andSavioli1995).Incertaincircumstances,maleworker and 60 percent and less than 10 percent of moderate- and populationscanalsobeatincreasedrisk(Guyatt2000). heavy-intensity infection),intervention once a year is recom- mended . Estimating Intervention Effectiveness School-AgeChildrenasaHigh-RiskPopulation. School-age childrentypicallyhavethehighestintensityofworminfection The evidence base for the health and educational effect of of any age group, and chronic infection negatively affects all periodic deworming has accumulated significantly over the learning,andeducationalaccessandachievement(WorldBank 2003). Regular deworming can cost-effectively reverse and STHInfections. Alltheanthelminticdrugsmentionedabove prevent much of this morbidity.Furthermore,schools offer a substantiallyreducethenumberofadultwormsinthegastroin- readilyavailable,extensive,andsustainedinfrastructurewitha testinal tract. This effect is also reflected in reduced fecal egg skilledworkforcethatisinclosecontactwiththecommunity. counts. In some cases, however, the efficacy of single-dose Withsupportfromthelocalhealthsystem,teacherscandeliver mebendazoleoralbendazoleonhookwormandTrichurisinfec- thedrugssafely.Teachersneedonlyafewhoursof trainingto tionsislow(Adamsandothers2004;Albonicoandothers1994). understand the rationale for deworming and to learn how to Moreover, pyrantel pamoate has little effect on T. trichiura. giveoutthepillsandkeeparecordoftheirdistribution.School- Overall,however,anthelmintictreatmentsignificantlyimproves Helminth Infections: Soil-Transmitted Helminth Infections and Schistosomiasis | 473 Box 24.1 The 54th World Health Assembly urged member states to ensure access to essential drugs for part of the primary health care system:(a) access to ade- schistosomiasis and STH infections in endemic areas quate diagnosis and essential anthelmintic drugs in all for morbidity.The helminth infections ofconcern are the els, for the treatment of symptomatic cases and of chil- major schistosomes and STHs outlined in the text. The dren,women,and other groups at high risk ofmorbidity; World Health Assembly determined that simple and sus- (b) regular administration of chemotherapy to at least tainable control measures can
