Chapter
KEYWORDS: infections, helminth, control, schistosomiasis, infection, treatment, children, helminth infections, health, hookworm, sth, deworming, disease, school, morbidity


the text. The dren,women,and other groups at high risk ofmorbidity; World Health Assembly determined that simple and sus- (b) regular administration of chemotherapy to at least tainable control measures can relieve a generally underes- 75percent ofall school-age children at risk for morbidity timated and unnecessary disease burden in high- by 2010; and (c) sustained, community-based efforts to at reducing morbidity by 80 percent,can be achieved by all education. Source:WHO 2002. physicalandcognitiveoutcomesinthefollowingways: PeriodicDeworming. Theadvantageof periodicdeworming liesinitssimplicity(onetabletperchild)andsafety.Teachers • Preschool children. Periodic distribution of anthelmintics andotherpersonnelwithoutmedicaltrainingcaneasilyapply has a positive effect on motor and language development thesimplemeasures,whichcanbeincorporatedwithoutdiffi- and reduces malnutrition in very young children (Stoltzfus cultyinexistinghealthandnonhealthactivitiesthatreachthe and others 2004). high-risk group. Several organizations, including nongovern- • School-age children. Treating school-age children has a mental organizations, include an STH and schistosome considerable effect on their nutritional status (Stoltzfus and infection-control package within their routine activities and, others 2004), anemia, physical fitness, appetite, growth with very limited budgets, relieve the burden of helminth (Stephenson, Latham, and Ottesen 2000), and intellectual infectionsinthepopulationcovered.Thecostsof albendazole development (Drake and others 2000). and PZQ are available through the International Drug Price • Women of reproductive age. Studies of pregnant women Indicator Guide ( Delivery systems for conducted by Christian,Khatry,and West (2004) in Nepal deworming have often depended on vertical programs, in indicate that albendazole treatment improves maternal whichmobileteamsvisitschoolsorcommunitiestocarryout hemoglobin as well as birth-weight and child survival. treatment(WHO2002).Estimatedcostsforthisapproachare outlinedintable24.2.ForSTHinfectionsinTanzania,Nigeria, Schistosomiasis. As with STH infections, anthelmintic andMontserrat,thecostsrangefromUS$0.21toUS$0.51per chemotherapy for schistosomiasis has an important effect on treatment.However,bytrainingteachersandotherschooloffi- child development,growth,and physical fitness . cials to administer anthelmintic drugs, the system could Richter (2003) recently summarized details ofthe effect ofPZQ achieve low-cost delivery by“piggy-backing”on existing pro- on organ pathology.In S.haematobium infections,reversal of grams in the educational sector .Specific exam- urinary tract pathology can be seen six months after a cure.In ples of such programs conducted in Ghana and Tanzania are S.mansoniand S.japonicuminfections,much ofthe intestinal summarized in the section “Implementation of Control pathology regresses after chemotherapy. However, more than Strategies: Lessons of Experience,”later in this chapter.It was one PZQ treatment is usually necessary to reverse hepatic found that delivery of school-based targeted anthelmintic pathology, especially in areas of intense transmission. Early treatmentcouldcostaslittleasUS$0.03perchild,whichmay intervention with PZQ is preferable to reverse organ pathology. beas low as one-tenth oftheestimatedcostsforverticaldeliv- ery .Thus,at current drug prices,the total cost Intervention Costs (drugplusdelivery)of asingletreatmentwithalbendazoleor Several studies have evaluated the costs of school-based peri- mebendazole may be as low as US$0.05, and that of a
