Chapter
KEYWORDS: infections, helminth, control, schistosomiasis, infection, treatment, children, helminth infections, health, hookworm, sth, deworming, disease, school, morbidity


.Thus,at current drug prices,the total cost Intervention Costs (drugplusdelivery)of asingletreatmentwithalbendazoleor Several studies have evaluated the costs of school-based peri- mebendazole may be as low as US$0.05, and that of a com- odic deworming in several different settings,whereas compara- binedtreatmentwithPZQmaybeaslowasUS$0.25perchild ble studies on other interventions are still lacking. (WHO2002). 474 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Peter J. Hotez, Donald A. P. Bundy, Kathleen Beegle, and others Table 24.2 Recent Examples of Delivery Costs for a Single Mass Treatment Delivery cost per treatment Strategy Drug Country US$ Percentage of total cost Mobile team Albendazole Montserrat 0.51 67 Albendazole Bangladesh — 42 Levamisole Nigeria 0.32 81 PZQ Tanzania 0.21 24 School-based Albendazole Ghana 0.04 17 Albendazole Tanzania 0.03 13 Out-of-school children Arab Rep. of Egypt 0.16–0.21 40–47 Source:Guyatt 2003. — (cid:3)not available. Integrating drug distribution through the school system qualitative judgments,and no cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) rather than using mobile teams,along with a marked decline in estimates exist for sanitation in this context. the price ofBZAs and PZQ,has resulted in a 10-fold reduction because they do not include the external costs for the coordi- the health awareness of the population are included as an nating center responsible for supporting those approaches essential component ofany population-based activity aimed at . It has been estimated, for instance, that mass controlling morbidity attributable to helminth infections. albendazole treatment of school-age children in Kenya could However,the effectiveness ofthose activities in reducing trans- cost more than US$3 million each year, equivalent to some mission of infection varies according to different reports. In . This analysis has not been evaluated against of knowledge, and decrease reinfection rates (Lansdown and parasite control authorities in Kenya suggest that the actual cost engage communities,aspects that are crucial to the success of is likely to be far less.Large-scale chemotherapy programs for public health initiatives. No CEA estimates exist for health helminth control continue to rely heavily on donor support, education in this context. suggesting that some affected countries may be unable to sup- port the costs ofdeworming. Monitoring ofcontrol programs is an important part ofthe Linking Costs and Effects of Interventions managerial process,and it should be carried out at minimum Interventions to reduce morbidity from helminth infections cost so as not to divert resources from the intervention fall into two categories:targeting the transmission mechanisms (Brooker and others 2004). It is recommended that, at the and treating individuals directly. The former encompasses
