Chapter
KEYWORDS: infections, helminth, control, schistosomiasis, infection, treatment, children, helminth infections, health, hookworm, sth, deworming, disease, school, morbidity


to divert resources from the intervention fall into two categories:targeting the transmission mechanisms (Brooker and others 2004). It is recommended that, at the and treating individuals directly. The former encompasses planning stage,approximately 5 to 10 percent of the program improvements in infrastructure, including water supply and budget be reserved for monitoring activities (Montresor and others 2002). drug treatment of the population. Substantial improvements Improved Sanitation. When sanitation improvements are through prevention may be a long-term outcome ofeconomic made alongside deworming, the results obtained last longer. growth in general, because wealthier households have However,the investment needed to reach the level required to improved sanitation facilities and practices,but those improve- interfere with STH transmission could be high. To correctly ments are not an option in the short term without large evaluate the advantage ofsuch investments,one must take into investments in infrastructure. As shown in the previous sec- economic development. An efficient sanitation infrastructure cost-effectiveness criteria.Costs continue to fall as drug costs removes the underlying cause ofmost poverty-related commu- decrease. With better data and detailed mapping of disease nicable diseases and can boost the economic development ofa distribution within communities, targeting individuals at country.The resources needed to improve hygienic standards high risk becomes more feasible, thus improving the cost- can be huge and require the cooperation of several sectors of effectiveness of control programs (Michaud, Gordon, and society (Asaolu and Ofoezie 2003). Currently, these are Reich 2003). Helminth Infections: Soil-Transmitted Helminth Infections and Schistosomiasis | 475 Box 24.2 The High Cost-Effectiveness of Mass Treatment for Helminth Infection The combination of low-cost treatment and high preva- albendazoleandthenreinfected,thecostperDALYaverted lence rates suggests that the cost per DALY averted from is estimated at US$3.41 for STH infections. That is, if treating helminth infections will be quite low. Following spendingwerecappedatUS$1million,totalDALYswould theconsistentframeworkdescribedinmasstreatmentof be reduced by nearly 300,000. The estimate of cost per school-agechildrenforbothSTHinfectionsandschistoso- DALYishigherforschistosomiasisrelativetoSTHinfec- miasisprovestobeextremelycost-effective.Infact,benefit- tions because of higher drug costs and lower disability cost ratios would be even higher if the analyses incorpo- weights. Depending on whether generics or original for- rated the additional benefits associated with externalities mulationsareused,thecostperDALYavertedrangesfrom fortheuntreated.Forapopulationof1millionpeoplein US$3.36toUS$6.92.However,incombination,treatment low-andmiddle-incomecountries,iftreatmentislimited withbothalbendazoleandPZQprovestobeextremelycost to school-age children treated 1.1 times per year with effective,intherangeofUS$8toUS$19perDALYaverted. Evidence from existing programs that narrow the interven- infections.Expanding mass treatment to children not enrolled tion to school-age children (a high-risk group) shows that the in school will result in treating populations that have higher treatment costs of chemotherapy for helminth infections are incidence and
