Chapter
KEYWORDS: infections, helminth, control, schistosomiasis, infection, treatment, children, helminth infections, health, hookworm, sth, deworming, disease, school, morbidity


nonmar- begained,inadditiontothebenefitforthetreatedindividual. ket production activities, including greater farmer efficiency Second, some forms of intervention are almost pure public andproductivity(PsacharopoulosandPatrinos2002). goods;thatis,noonecanbeexcludedfromusingthegoodsor Although observational studies show that lower levels of servicestheinterventionsdeliver,andtheprivatesectoristhus learning and schooling are linked to helminth infection (World unlikely to deliver them.Finally,preventive measures,such as Bank 2003), establishing a causal relationship requires ade- informationonthevalueofwashinghands,maynotbedelivered quately controlling for all unobserved or confounding factors. throughtheprivatesector.Thelackofknowledgeaboutinfec- Miguel and Kremer (2003) note that several methodological tionsandsubclinicalsymptomsmaymakeindividualslesslike- issues hamper many existing randomized treatment-control lytoseektreatment.Inanalyzingthegainsofinterventionsfor evaluations. First, externalities associated with interventions wormcontrol,oneshouldaccountfortheburdenofhelminth can lead to underestimating impacts among the untreated pop- DALYs.Theeconomicimplicationsmaybequitelarge. the validity of findings, although the direction of this effect The negative correlation between helminth infections and is ambiguous. Third, existing studies typically evaluate the income level is clearly demonstrated both within and between impact ofdeworming on cognitive skills,likely the culmination be inferred from this established relationship; poverty pro- assessed by tests administered to treated and untreated chil- tunity costs to uninfected household members residing with other important education outcomes, which are likely to be either directly or indirectly, the magnitude of the effect of school enrollment and school attendance. deworming on economic productivity.The indirect evidence at The study by Miguel and Kremer (2003) in Kenya attempts the micro level suggests that helminth infection has a signifi- to address those shortcomings through improved study design ings. More direct evidence for children shows that helminth deworming reduced total primary school absenteeism by at infection has long-term implications for educational attain- least one-quarter in the first two years ofthe project.The gains ment and economic status. were largest for the youngest children,who suffered from more Helminth Infections: Soil-Transmitted Helminth Infections and Schistosomiasis | 477 Net presented value of discounted wages (US$) Beyond the current impacts on schooling and implications for cognition, helminth infection in children can have long- term implications for economic outcomes in adulthood through its effect on physical growth.Height has been shown to affect wage-earning capacity as well as participation in the 75 labor force for men and women (Thomas and Strauss 1997). This relationship may be strongest in settings where infection rates are highest—that is, low-income areas, where physical 25 endurance yields high returns in the labor market. 0.0 2.5 5.0 7.5 10.0 12.5 15.0 17.5 20.0 22.5 25.0 Increase in school participation per year per pupil (percent) IMPLEMENTATION OF CONTROL STRATEGIES: Source: [please provide source info.] LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE Note: Assumptions are as follows:
