Chapter
KEYWORDS: infections, helminth, control, schistosomiasis, infection, treatment, children, helminth infections, health, hookworm, sth, deworming, disease, school, morbidity


17.5 20.0 22.5 25.0 Increase in school participation per year per pupil (percent) IMPLEMENTATION OF CONTROL STRATEGIES: Source: [please provide source info.] LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE Note: Assumptions are as follows: a 7 percent return to an additional year of school; with no wage growth; and annual wage earnings of US$400 per year, which is below the estimated agricultural and nonagricultural annual wages for low-income countries in odic deworming. the World Bank (2003). Figure 24.3 Returns to School Participation Case Study Number 1: Periodic Deworming in Ghana and Tanzania intense worm infections.Externalities would cause a substan- The Partnership for Child Development (PCD) undertook an tial underestimation ofthis effect.In terms ofcost-effectiveness evaluation ofthe use ofschools in Ghana and Tanzania for the more effective at improving school attendance than other edu- processes, costs, and benefits . The effort also cational interventions implemented in a study in Kenya. involved operations research and evaluation ofprograms with ent value ofdiscounted wages by more than US$30 per treated tions of the programs (Hall and others 1999). The results child compared with per treatment costs of under US$1.For demonstrated the following: realistic estimates ofreturns to schooling,these results show in general that the net present discounted value of lifetime earn- • Simple interventions, such as deworming, have the ings is high compared with the costs of treatment even for potential to improve children’s health and educational small gains in school participation (figure 24.3). achievement, especially for those worst affected and most Bleakley(2003)examinedtheeffectofahookwormcontrol disadvantaged. program undertaken about 1910 in the southern part of the • The delivery ofschool-based health services is efficient and United States. Hookworm infection was estimated to cause a cost-effective and is supported by the key stakeholders children with greater exposure to the hookworm eradication education and health sectors and the community are posi- infection in childhood led to significantly lower wages in effective and are seen as responding to local needs. adulthood. • The provision of health services through schools need not Helminthinfectionsinpreschool-agechildrencanhavecon- require long and complex training,nor significantly add to sequencesforsubsequentschooling,suchasdelayingprimary the workload ofteachers or administrators. school enrollment and school attainment, thereby affecting • Delivery through the existing education sector could occur future labor market outcomes. Bobonis, Miguel, and Sharma effectively without any additional infrastructure,as long as (2003)conductedastudyofpreschool-agechildren,usingiron the existing educational system is adequately functional. supplementation and deworming drugs administered to chil- drentwotosixyearsofage.Preliminaryresultsindicatethat,in The results of the evaluation of these programs also high- additiontotheweightgainassociatedwithtreatment,average lightedtheneedfordewormingtobecarriedoutinthecontext
