Chapter
KEYWORDS: infections, helminth, control, schistosomiasis, infection, treatment, children, helminth infections, health, hookworm, sth, deworming, disease, school, morbidity


long as (2003)conductedastudyofpreschool-agechildren,usingiron the existing educational system is adequately functional. supplementation and deworming drugs administered to chil- drentwotosixyearsofage.Preliminaryresultsindicatethat,in The results of the evaluation of these programs also high- additiontotheweightgainassociatedwithtreatment,average lightedtheneedfordewormingtobecarriedoutinthecontext age points among assisted children older than two, reducing activitiessuchaseffectiveandnondiscriminatoryschoolhealth preschoolabsenteeismbyroughlyone-fifth. policies, provision of safe water and sanitation, and effective 478 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Peter J. Hotez, Donald A. P. Bundy, Kathleen Beegle, and others healtheducation( tive performance. Plausible mechanisms by which helminths schoolsandhealth.org). suppress growth in childhood and exert negative impacts on intelligence, cognition, and school performance are largely unstudiedandunknown.Inaddition,somereportshaveques- Case Study Number 2: Schistosomiasis Control in Egypt tionedwhetheralbendazoleitselfcouldadverselyaffectgrowth In 1937, the prevalence of schistosomiasis in rural areas was (Forrester and others 1998).Those issues require clarification about 50 percent,almost every boy had blood in his urine by as widespread deworming programs become more common. the age of12,and bladder cancer was the commonest cancer in The impact of helminths on populations other than Egypt.Molluscicides,from copper sulfate to niclosamide,have schoolchildren, including preschool-age children, women of beenusedtotrytokillthehostsnails,anddrugsfromantimony- childbearingage,andadultworkers,appearstobesubstantial. based compounds, through niridazole, metrifonate, and However,those populations are understudied.Also unclear is PZQ,have been used to treat the millions ofinfected Egyptians. the impact of childhood STH and schistosome infections on Finally, after a 14-year control campaign using PZQ, the productivity in adulthood. The effect of chemotherapy on prevalence of schistosomiasis has been reduced to below many of the manifestations of schistosomiasis has not been 10 percent. With infection intensities now low, the serious assessedsystematically.Ithasbeenpostulatedthat PZQ treat- health consequences of schistosomiasis have disappeared.The mentofschistosomiasispromotespartialimmunitybydestroy- program was started in 1988, when using loans from the ing worms in the vasculature and releasing parasite antigens African Development Bank and the World Bank,Egypt invest- (ColleyandSecor2004).Incontrast,thefrequentandperiodic ed heavily in the purchase of PZQ,encouraging local produc- treatmentofSTHinfections(Albonicoandothers1995)donot tion,to control morbidity caused by schistosomiasis.Since the appeartopromotenaturalprotectiveimmunity. drug was first made available in 1988,some 45 million doses The role of helminths and coinfections also warrants fur- have been dispensed. A television campaign has encouraged ther exploration. Some studies suggest that HIV-1 infection people to submit samples for diagnosis and to receive free treat- may promote susceptibility to schistosomiasis (Secor,Karanja, ment if their diagnoses are positive. Since 1997, a mass and Colley 2004), and human T-cell lymphotropic virus-1 chemotherapy campaign was used to target populations in (HTLV-1) infection may promote susceptibility to strongy- high-prevalence villages and children in selected governorates loidiasis. In addition, emerging evidence indicates that STH
