Chapter
KEYWORDS: infections, helminth, control, schistosomiasis, infection, treatment, children, helminth infections, health, hookworm, sth, deworming, disease, school, morbidity


emerging drug specific dynamics of helminth populations will provide suffi- resistancehavepromptedthesearchforalternativecontroltools. cient genetic flow to maintain susceptibility in much the same Formosthelminthinfections,reductioninadultwormburden way that insecticides remain the effective staple of global has been considered the“gold standard”for vaccine develop- agribusiness. Until new technologies become available, ment.Forschistosomiasis,however,avaccinethattargetspara- anthelmintic chemotherapy for school-age children remains sitefecundityandeggviability,therebyreducingpathologyand the most practical and substantive means to control STH and transmission,wouldalsorepresentanimportantbreakthrough. schistosome infections in the developing world. A28-kDaglutathioneS-transferase(GST)hasshownpromise as a protective antigen for S. haematobium infection (Capron andothers2005).TheS.haematobiumvaccineprojectbasedon GSThassuccessfullypassedphase1testing;theresearchgroup, REFERENCES whichisbasedatthePasteurInstitute,isembarkingonphase2 Adams, V. J., C. J. Lombard, M. A. Dhansay, M. B. Markus, and J. E. clinical trials in Senegal and Niger.Additional schistosomiasis Fincham. 2004. “Efficacy of Albendazole against the Whipworm vaccines are also undergoing early-stage development. Efforts Trichuris Trichiura—A Randomized,Controlled Trial.”South African arealsounderwaybytheHumanHookwormVaccineInitiative Medical Journal94:972–76. to develop and test a first-generation recombinant hookworm Albonico, M., Q. Bickle, M. Ramsan, A. Montresor, L. Savioli, and vaccine (Brooker and others 2005; Hotez,Bethony and others M.Taylor.2003.“Efficacy ofMebendazole and Levamisole Alone or in Combination against Intestinal Nematode Infections after Repeated 2005).Thefirstvaccinemanufacturedundercurrentgoodman- Targeted Mebendazole Treatment in Zanzibar.”Bulletin of the World ufacturingpracticesandtestedforqualitycontrolandtoxicityis Health Organization 81:343–52. the Na-ASP-2 hookworm vaccine, which was developed from Albonico,M.,A.Montresor,D.W.Crompton,and L.Savioli.Forthcoming. researchdemonstratinghumancorrelatesofimmunityandpar- “Intervention for the Control of Soil—Transmitted Helminthiasis.” Advances in Parasitology. tial protection data in vaccinated laboratory animals. Phase 1 Albonico,M.,E.Renganathan,A.Bosman,U.M.Kisumku,K.S.Alawi, human trials for evaluating the safety and immunogenicity of and L. Savioli. 1994.“Efficacy of a Single Dose of Mebendazole on the Na-ASP-2 hookworm vaccine are in progress. Additional Prevalence and Intensity ofSoil-Transmitted Nematodes in Zanzibar.” research is needed to determine how an anthelmintic vaccine Tropical and Geographic Medicine46:142–46. canbeincorporatedintoexistingcontrolprograms,aswellhow Albonico,M.,P.G.Smith,E.Ercole,A.Hall,H.M.Chwaya,K.S.Alawi,and L.Savioli.1995.“Rate ofReinfection with Intestinal Nematodes after itwouldbeusedforat-riskpopulationsnotcurrentlytargeted Treatment ofChildren with Mebendazole or Albendazole in a Highly forperiodicdeworminginschools. Endemic Area.”Transactions ofthe Royal Society ofTropical Medicine and Hygiene 89:538–41. Anderson, R. M., and R. M. May. 1991. Infectious Diseases of Humans. CONCLUSIONS: PROMISES AND PITFALLS Asaolu,S.O.,and I.E.Ofoezie.2003.“The Role ofHealth Education and Sanitation in the Control of Helminth Infections.”Acta Tropica 86: Fulfilling the mandate of World Health Assembly resolution 283–94. 54.19 will require the regular treatment ofhundreds ofmillions Bethony,J.,J.T.Williams,H.Kloos,J.Blangero,L.Alves-Fraga,G.Buck, ofchildren over decades.The obstacles in this undertaking are and others. 2001.“Exposure to Schistosoma mansoni Infection in a formidable,and success will depend on the ability ofcountries Rural Area in Brazil:II.Household Risk Factors.”Tropical Medicine and to identify or create reliable and sustained infrastructures for International Health 6:136–45. this purpose.A focus on using preexisting school systems may Bleakley,H.2003.“Disease and Development:Evidence from Hookworm Eradication in
