Ambiguous Genitalia in the Newborn
KEYWORDS: genitalia, pubmed, dsd, development, sex, ambiguous, ambiguous genitalia, deficiency, gonadal, androgen, genital, external, dysgenesis, female, newborns


education, access to expert care through DSD network teams, psychological support, shared decision-making, and promoting acceptance and inclusivity. By providing comprehensive support and guidance, families can better navigate the challenges and uncertainties they may encounter when caring for a newborn with ambiguous genitalia. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Typical male and female development commences with the presence of the typical 46,XY or 46,XX chromosomes, which play a pivotal role in determining the indifferent gonads. Around the 6th week of gestation, these gonads follow pathways to develop into male-typical or female-typical gonads ( Figure 1 ). This gonadal determination is intricately regulated by a complex interplay of multiple genes, which guide the male gonads to become testes and the female gonads to become ovaries. Subsequently, the gonads initiate the production of various hormones, including anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) and testosterone. These hormones are responsible for driving the differentiation of the embryologic Wolffian and Müllerian structures into sex-typical internal reproductive organs ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1. Typical male and female sex determination and differentiation occur during fetal life. The presence of the Y chromosome in the karyotype and the SRY gene (sex-determining region Y gene) are the primary determinants of male sex development. The SRY gene initiates a cascade that leads to the development of testes from bipotential gonads. Testosterone and Anti Mullerian Hormone (AMH) are secreted by testicular cells, which masculinize the Wolffian (mesonephric) duct and cause the regression of the Mullerian (paramesonephric) duct, respectively. Dihydrotestosterone (DHT), produced by the 5-alpha reduction of testosterone, plays a major role in male external genital development and prostate formation. The absence of the SRY gene on the Y chromosome is the primary factor for the induction of the female sex, and the development of the uterus, fallopian tubes, cervix and upper vagina from the Mullerian duct. The development of external genitalia begins with a neutral anlage, including a genital tubercule, genital folds, and a urogenital sinus. These structures are subsequently differentiated into typical male external genitalia under the influence of androgens, particularly dihydrotestosterone (DHT). Conversely, for the development of typical female external genitalia, the absence of androgens is crucial to prevent virilization. Therefore, ambiguous genitalia at birth can arise from either an excessive or insufficient androgen effect on the neutral external genital anlage in males or females, respectively ( Figure 2
