Ambiguous Genitalia in the Newborn
KEYWORDS: genitalia, pubmed, dsd, development, sex, ambiguous, ambiguous genitalia, deficiency, gonadal, androgen, genital, external, dysgenesis, female, newborns


one in 4,500. It is essential that a newborn with ambiguous genitalia and their parents are promptly referred to a specialized center for evaluation. This evaluation should be carried out by a multi-disciplinary team specializing in DSD in accordance with international recommendations on diagnostic and therapeutic strategies. This team should provide holistic care and treatment guidance, collaborating closely with relevant subspecialists and peer support groups ( 5 ). Key subspecialties involved in DSD teams typically include psychology, pediatric endocrinology, urology, neonatology, gynecology, andrology, nursing, social work, genetics, and medical ethics. It's worth noting that certain aspects of DSD management remain contentious or uncertain, resulting in recent changes in clinical practice that are ongoing. Notably, genital surgery has been banned in several countries, and it is increasingly avoided in young children to protect their rights to an open future and the integrity of their bodies. Consequently, we can anticipate a growing number of children growing up with atypical-looking genitalia, requiring a careful assessment of the psychological impact ( 6 ). Providing psychological support to affected families as a standard component of care from the outset is, therefore, of utmost importance. Issues related to gender that may arise in the context of ambiguous genitalia should be openly and thoughtfully discussed. A comprehensive evaluation of ambiguous genitalia in a newborn is essential for understanding the underlying cause and potential consequences. On one hand, this evaluation can lead to the detection of concomitant, treatable disorders, such as adrenal insufficiency that requires cortisol replacement. Also, it is important to note that in up to 30% of children with a Difference/Disorder of Sex Development (DSD), other organ system disorders may be identified, necessitating medical care and qualifying as syndromic DSD ( 7 , 8 ). On the other hand, identifying the underlying cause of ambiguous genitalia forms the basis for making an informed decision regarding sex registration at birth, if necessary and desired by the parents. Gender assignment/sex registration at birth should take into account long-term satisfaction with the sex of rearing, sexual function, and fertility potential ( 1 , 9 , 10 ). Ideally, it should result from a shared decision-making process involving the child's parents and the DSD network team. This decision should be based on the individual's phenotype/genotype, existing knowledge from literature, databases, and patient representative experience ( 11 - 13 ). This process may require time, as parents need to grasp the
