Ambiguous Genitalia in the Newborn
KEYWORDS: genitalia, pubmed, dsd, development, sex, ambiguous, ambiguous genitalia, deficiency, gonadal, androgen, genital, external, dysgenesis, female, newborns


based on the individual's phenotype/genotype, existing knowledge from literature, databases, and patient representative experience ( 11 - 13 ). This process may require time, as parents need to grasp the complexity of their child's unique biology in order to participate in this decision. As a first step, the overall health of the child should be assessed, and parents should be educated about typical sexual development before explanations regarding the underlying cause and its implications for their child's ambiguous genitalia are provided. Even if the exact details of the underlying cause remain unresolved, it is essential to communicate what is known and what remains uncertain to the parents and make plans for the family's future in the best interests of the child. Several websites are available for patients and their families to exchange information, share coping strategies, and discuss decision-making processes that can enhance outcomes for newborns with ambiguous genitalia. Such resources can be found on websites supported by organizations like the Accord Alliance ( www.accordalliance.org ), DSD families ( www.dsdfamilies.org ), AIS DSD Support Group ( www.aisdsd.org ), and the CARES Foundation ( www.caresfoundation.org ). However, the most current information will always be available from the responsible DSD team, which will also be aware of country-specific support services. GENETICS OF SEX DETERMINATION AND DIFFERENTIATION Sex development is a sequential process that involves the coordinated action of numerous genes and pathways. This process culminates in the development of functional gonads, differentiated internal sex organs, external genitalia, and typical secondary sexual characteristics that manifest after puberty. Prenatal sex development can be divided into two distinct processes: sex determination and sex differentiation ( Figure 3 ). Sex determination is the initial step that occurs shortly after conception, approximately at 6-7 weeks gestation. During this phase, the undifferentiated gonads evolve into either testes or ovaries. By contrast, sex differentiation occurs subsequently and involves hormones produced after the formation of the sex-specific gonads. These hormones play a critical role in shaping the further development of the dependent embryonic structures, leading to the formation of male and female internal and external phenotypes. Figure 3. The genes and transcription factors required for gonadal development. The formation of the bipotential gonad requires at least seven genes including NR5A1 (Nuclear Receptor Subfamily 5 Group A Member 1), WT1 (WilmsTumor1 Transcription Factor), LHX9 (LIM Homeobox 9), EMX2 (Empty Spiracles Homeobox 2), CBX2 (Chromobox 2), PBX1 (Pre-B-Cell Leukemia Transcription Factor 1)
