Ambiguous Genitalia in the Newborn
KEYWORDS: genitalia, pubmed, dsd, development, sex, ambiguous, ambiguous genitalia, deficiency, gonadal, androgen, genital, external, dysgenesis, female, newborns


(Nuclear Receptor Subfamily 5 Group A Member 1), WT1 (WilmsTumor1 Transcription Factor), LHX9 (LIM Homeobox 9), EMX2 (Empty Spiracles Homeobox 2), CBX2 (Chromobox 2), PBX1 (Pre-B-Cell Leukemia Transcription Factor 1) and GATA4 (GATA Binding Protein 4). Adapted from ( 14 ). The Male Specific Pathway In the male specific pathway, the expression of the SRY gene in pre-Sertoli cells serves as a pivotal switch that directs the fate of the gonads toward testicular development. SRY, in conjunction with NR5A1, activates the SOX9 signaling pathway, initiating testis development ( Figure 3 ). Other important genes for the early testis development are NR0B1 (Nuclear Receptor subfamily 0 group B member 1), AMH (Anti-Mullerian Hormone) and GATA4 . AMH secreted by Sertoli cells, plays a crucial role in promoting the regression of Müllerian structures and supporting the development of Leydig cells in the testes. Subsequently, androgens produced by the testes facilitate the development of male internal organs (epididymis, vas deferens, seminal vesicle) and external genitalia (penis, scrotum). The production of sex steroids relies on an intact steroidogenic pathway, with all steroid hormones originating from cholesterol. The initial steps of sex steroid biosynthesis overlap with the synthesis of mineralo-corticosteroids and gluco-corticosteroids ( Figure 4 ). It is important to note that certain steroid disorders, often referred to as congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH), can affect both adrenal and gonadal steroidogenesis or result in androgen excess or deficiency that may impact fetal genital development. INSL3, produced in Leydig cells, plays a role in guiding the descent of the testes from the abdomen to the scrotal folds. The process of masculinization of initially sex-neutral, undifferentiated external genitalia begins around 8-9 weeks of gestation when the potent androgen DHT (dihydrotestosterone) is produced by the testes. DHT is crucial for the fusion of the urethral and labioscrotal folds, elongation of the genital tubercle, regression of the urogenital sinus, and the development of the prostate ( 15 ). The enzyme 5α-reductase is responsible for converting testosterone produced by fetal Leydig cells into DHT. Complete masculinization of the external genitalia through DHT is typically achieved by week 14 of gestation ( 16 ). Figure 4. Steroidogenesis of the adrenals and gonads. Adrenal and gonadal steroidogenesis starting from cholesterol and showing key steroids and intermediates of the classical and alternative pathways is illustrated. Cortisol and androgen biosynthesis are under control of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis in a negative feedback loop. Androgen synthesis occurs
