Ambiguous Genitalia in the Newborn
KEYWORDS: genitalia, pubmed, dsd, development, sex, ambiguous, ambiguous genitalia, deficiency, gonadal, androgen, genital, external, dysgenesis, female, newborns


17α-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase deficiency, POR; P450 oxidoreductase, HSD17B3; 17β-hydroxysteroid oxidoreductase or 17-ketosteroid reductase; SF1/NR5A1; steroidogenic factor 1. The 46,XY Newborn With Ambiguous Genitalia Ambiguous genitalia in a 46XY newborn can result from abnormal formation of the early fetal testes (testicular dysgenesis), reduced production of testosterone or dihydrotestosterone (5α-reductase deficiency), or the inability to respond to androgens (androgen insensitivity syndrome, or AIS) ( Table 3 ). Depending on the extent of androgen production defect or resistance, affected newborns may exhibit a range of external genitalia phenotype, varying from those that appear typically female to those that appear typically male but with a small phallus, hypospadias, and a bifid scrotum, with or without palpable testes. Here we focus primarily on causes that lead to ambiguous genitalia. Broadly, four groups of underlying causes of 46, XY DSD with ambiguous genitalia can be identified: (a) partial gonadal dysgenesis, (b) partial testosterone biosynthetic defects, (c) partial 5α-reductase deficiency, and (d) partial androgen insensitivity syndrome or PAIS. PARTIAL GONADAL DYSGENESIS In cases of partial gonadal dysgenesis, it is presumed that a gene mutation leads to a partial abnormality in the development of the early urogenital ridge or gonadal anlage. This category of DSD can also involve mutations in genes such as SRY and SOX9 , which are essential for the differentiation of bipotential gonads into testes ( Figure 3 ). Partial gonadal dysgenesis is typically associated with incomplete masculinization of the external genitalia, along with varying degrees of maintenance of Wolffian ducts and inhibition of Müllerian ducts. For a summary of known genetic variations associated with gonadal dysgenesis, please refer to Table 4 . Leydig cell aplasia or hypoplasia represents a variation of gonadal dysgenesis, characterized by inadequate Leydig cell differentiation in the male gonad, resulting in impaired androgen production. Mutations in the LH receptor gene ( LHCGR ) as well as polymorphisms have been associated with this condition ( 25 ). The phenotype associated with Leydig cell hypoplasia includes incomplete masculinization of the external genitalia, along with incomplete development and maintenance of the Wolffian ducts. Table 4. Monogenic Disorders of Gonadal Development/Differentiation and Associated DSD Presentations in Humans, Both 46,XY and 46,XX View in own window Gene defect Locus Mode of transmission Clinical presentation Reference DSD phenotype Other 46, XX 46, XY ARX Xp22.13 XL Testicular dysgenesis Lissencephaly, epilepsy, intellectual disability temperature instability ( 26 ) ATRX Xq13.3 XL Testicular dysgenesis Dysmorphic features, intellectual disability, α-thalassemia (
