Ambiguous Genitalia in the Newborn
KEYWORDS: genitalia, pubmed, dsd, development, sex, ambiguous, ambiguous genitalia, deficiency, gonadal, androgen, genital, external, dysgenesis, female, newborns


lead in varying degrees of atypical sex differentiation of 46,XY fetuses, also classified as AIS type I ( 76 - 78 ). A small number of complete AR gene deletions have been reported, as well as deletions that start at exons 2, 3 or 4 and extend to the terminus of the gene. In addition, a limited number of mutations resulting from premature terminations, base deletions and terminations have been identified. However, the most common type of AR gene mutation results from base substitutions ( 79 ). When mutations result in partial inactivation of AR activity (PAIS), the phenotypic variability in under-masculinization can be substantial and depends on the residual activity of the AR. In some cases, this can lead to ambiguous genitalia in newborns with a 46,XY chromosomal sex. Unlike in CAIS, the underlying genetic defect in PAIS is only found in the AR gene in about 40% of cases ( 80 ). However, the clinical and biochemical phenotype is similar, and in vitro functional tests demonstrate androgen resistance in all of them. Thus, individuals with AIS without AR mutations are classified as AIS type II ( 73 ). In cases of AIS type II without AR variants, largely unidentified regulators or cofactors of the AR are responsible for the impaired AR signaling, as revealed by an AR-dependent bioassay using genital skin fibroblasts and the targeted apolipoprotein D as a biomarker ( 81 ). Given that AR activity can be regulated at various levels, the potential mechanisms of AIS type II are diverse. Recently, altered DNA methylation of the AR promoter has been observed in some individuals with PAIS ( 82 ). Additionally, mutations in the Disheveled associated activator of morphogenesis 2 gene ( DAAM2 ) that impair nuclear actin assembly at AR have been associated with AIS type II ( 83 ). Overall, individuals with PAIS experience variable degrees of end-organ unresponsiveness to androgens, resulting in varying degrees of Wolffian duct development and external genital ambiguity. Within families with the same AR mutation, phenotypic variability can occur due to variable degrees of insensitivity to androgens ( 84 , 85 ). Consequently, solely relying on genetic information, it is challenging to predict whether a newborn with PAIS will identify as male, intersex, or female in later life and respond to future testosterone therapy. Similarly, genetic counselling is challenging. The 46,XX Newborn With Ambiguous Genitalia Ambiguous genitalia in a chromosomal
