Ambiguous Genitalia in the Newborn
KEYWORDS: genitalia, pubmed, dsd, development, sex, ambiguous, ambiguous genitalia, deficiency, gonadal, androgen, genital, external, dysgenesis, female, newborns


as male, intersex, or female in later life and respond to future testosterone therapy. Similarly, genetic counselling is challenging. The 46,XX Newborn With Ambiguous Genitalia Ambiguous genitalia in a chromosomal 46,XX fetus invariably results from androgen excess during fetal development, and the degree of virilization ( Figure 2 ) often provides clues about the timing and severity of the underlying disorder. Similar to a 46,XY fetus, a 46,XX fetus may experience partial gonadal dysgenesis or develop testicular or ovo-testicular DSD due to pathogenic variants in genes involved in early sex determination ( Table 3 and 4 ). Ovo-testicular DSD occurs when both ovarian and testicular tissue develop in the same individual ( 1 ). Most newborns with ovo-testicular DSD possess 46,XX chromosomes and present with ambiguous genitalia, although some affected individuals have 46,XY chromosomes or 46,XX/46,XY mosaicism. Just like in 46,XY DSD, the degree of testicular development determines the extent of masculinization/virilization of the external genitalia, Wolffian duct development, and Müllerian duct regression in affected newborns ( 79 ). A summary of known genetic variations is given in Table 4 . In the majority of cases, ambiguous genitalia in a 46,XX fetus with typical ovarian organogenesis can be attributed to excessive androgen production/exposure early in utero, originating either from the fetus itself ( Table 3 and Table 5 ) or from the mother or environment. ABNORMAL FETAL ANDROGEN PRODUCTION BY CONGENITAL ADRENAL HYPERPLASIA (CAH) The term congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) encompasses several adrenal disorders, each linked to a mutation in one of the enzymes necessary for the biosynthesis of cortisol from cholesterol ( 86 ) ( Figure 4 and Table 5 ). These abnormalities lead to increased ACTH secretion by the pituitary gland, which, in turn, results in the increased secretion of cortisol precursors, including adrenal androgens. Deficiency of steroid acute regulatory protein ( StAR ) causes congenital lipoid adrenal hyperplasia, characterized by salt loss and a lack of cortisol, androgen, and estrogen secretion. Genetic 46,XX infants affected by StAR deficiency exhibit typical female external genitalia, while genetic 46,XY are born with ambiguous genitalia or may experience sex reversal in cases of severe loss-of-function variants. A similar phenotype is also observed with variants in CYP11A1 . Deficiency in 17α-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase leads to hypertension due to the hypersecretion of corticosterone and impaired androgen secretion. Similar to congenital lipoid adrenal hyperplasia, 46,XX fetus affected by 17α-hydroxylase/17, 20-lyase deficiency ( CYP17A1 ) develop typical
