Ambiguous Genitalia in the Newborn
KEYWORDS: genitalia, pubmed, dsd, development, sex, ambiguous, ambiguous genitalia, deficiency, gonadal, androgen, genital, external, dysgenesis, female, newborns


to hypertension due to the hypersecretion of corticosterone and impaired androgen secretion. Similar to congenital lipoid adrenal hyperplasia, 46,XX fetus affected by 17α-hydroxylase/17, 20-lyase deficiency ( CYP17A1 ) develop typical female external genitalia, while 46,XY fetus present with ambiguity. Deficiency of 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase ( HSD3B2 ) results in salt loss and impaired androgen synthesis. Affected 46,XX females may or may not exhibit minimal genital masculinization, whereas all genetic 46,XY males are variably under-masculinized ( 87 ). CAH due to 11β-hydroxylase deficiency ( CYP11B1 ) and 21-hydroxylase deficiency ( CYP21A2 ) results in the most significant masculinization/virilization of external genitalia in 46,XX fetus compared to all other types of CAH. Additionally, 11β-hydroxylase deficiency can lead to hypertension in individuals of either sex in later life ( 88 , 89 ). 21-hydroxylase deficiency CAH, caused by variants in CYP21A2, represents the most common form (accounting for more than 90% of cases) of CAH and is the most frequent genetic cause of DSD with ambiguous genitalia at birth in 46,XX newborns ( 59 , 63 ). Cortisol deficiency necessitates replacement therapy in all classic forms of CAH. In the milder (simple-virilizing) presentation of classical 21-hydroxylase deficiency, salt loss is typically not an issue, whereas in the more severe (salt-wasting) form of classical 21-hydroxylase deficiency, salt-loss occurs and may pose a risk to the newborn shortly after birth if not treated with both mineralocorticoids and glucocorticoids ( 86 , 90 , 91 ). The pathological mechanisms of 21-hydroxylase deficiency leading to 46,XX virilization in utero have been well described ( 92 ). It involves androgen excess due to lack of 21-hydroxylase activity during the critical time window around 6-12 weeks of gestation when the external genitalia are formed, and adrenal androgen production should be redirected to cortisol production to protect the female external genital anlage. In 46,XX CAH ( Table 5 ), the resulting adrenal androgen excess exceeds the androgen metabolizing capacities of the fetal-placental unit, and alternative pathways of androgen production ( Figure 4 ) are also activated, contributing to the overall androgen excess. Figure 5 illustrates in a scheme how the fetal adrenals, liver and placenta cooperate under normal conditions to metabolize fetal adrenal androgens into estrogens. Figure 5. Steroid metabolic pathways in the fetal-placental-maternal unit, also known as the fetal-placental unit. The main function of the FZ of the fetal adrenal is the production of DHEA-S from cholesterol, which is transported
