Ambiguous Genitalia in the Newborn
KEYWORDS: genitalia, pubmed, dsd, development, sex, ambiguous, ambiguous genitalia, deficiency, gonadal, androgen, genital, external, dysgenesis, female, newborns


in the fetal-placental-maternal unit, also known as the fetal-placental unit. The main function of the FZ of the fetal adrenal is the production of DHEA-S from cholesterol, which is transported to the placenta, desulfated to DHEA, and sequentially metabolized by placental 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (3βHSD1), 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases (17βHSD) andcytochrome P450 aromatase (CYP19A1), to androstenedione (A4), testosterone (T) and estradiol (E2), respectively. E2 is then transported from the placenta into the maternal circulation. A4 is additionally also a substrate for placental CYP19A1, producing estrone (E1). Fetal adrenal DHEA-S is also metabolized by the fetal liver to 16α-hydroxy-DHEA-S by cytochrome P450 family 3 subfamily A member 7 (CYP3A7), which is metabolized to estriol (E3), the estrogen marker of pregnancy. Abbreviations: PREG, pregnenolone; 17OHPREG, 17α-hydroxypregnenolone; PROG, progesterone; DHEA, dehydroepiandrosterone; DHEA-S, dehydroepiandrosterone-sulfate; CYP11A1, cytochrome P450 cholesterol side chain cleavage; StAR, steroidogenic acute regulatory protein; CYP17A1, cytochrome P450 17α-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase; SULT2A1, sulfotransferase; CYP3A7, cytochrome P450 family 3 subfamily A member 7; CYP19A1, cytochrome P450 aromatase; HSD17B, 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase; HSD3B1, 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1; HSD11B2, 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2; STS, sulfatase. FETAL AND PLACENTAL AROMATASE DEFICIENCY During fetal development, the adrenals produce substantial amounts of DHEA/S. These are either converted to 16-hydroxy-DHEA/S in the fetal liver and then transported or directly transferred to the placenta, where they are converted into estrogens ( Figure 5 ). In case of an aromatase enzyme deficiency in the fetus (caused by variants in the CYP19A1 gene), androgen precursors accumulate and lead to virilization of 46,XX fetuses, typically leading to ambiguous genitalia at birth ( 93 ). Androgen excess due to fetal aromatase deficiency may also induce maternal virilization during pregnancy, as indicated by a deepening of the voice, oily skin and hair, and excessive hair growth (hirsutism). EXCESS MATERNAL ANDROGEN PRODUCTION Excessive androgen production can negatively impact fertility due to anovulation, therefore cases of maternal androgen production during pregnancy are exceedingly rare. Nonetheless, androgens originating from the mother can travers the placenta and lead to the masculinization of a female fetus. These maternal androgens usually originate from the ovaries or adrenal glands. Androgen-producing ovarian tumors include hilar cell tumors, arrhenoblastomas/androblastomas, lipoid cell tumors, and Krukenberg tumors. In contrast, pregnancy luteomas, rare non-neoplastic ovarian lesions occurring during pregnancy, are believed to be caused by hormonal effects related to pregnancy. Although exceptionally rare, androgen-secreting tumors of the adrenals can also occur during pregnancy. DRUGS ADMINISTERED TO THE MOTHER DURING GESTATION In 1958,
