Ambiguous Genitalia in the Newborn
KEYWORDS: genitalia, pubmed, dsd, development, sex, ambiguous, ambiguous genitalia, deficiency, gonadal, androgen, genital, external, dysgenesis, female, newborns


be caused by hormonal effects related to pregnancy. Although exceptionally rare, androgen-secreting tumors of the adrenals can also occur during pregnancy. DRUGS ADMINISTERED TO THE MOTHER DURING GESTATION In 1958, Wilkins et al. reported that certain synthetic progestins administered to pregnant women, such as 17α-ethinyl-19-nortestosterone, can masculinize the external genitalia of female fetuses ( 94 ). Similarly, diethylstilbesterol (DHE), a nonsteroidal synthetic estrogen, has been linked with urogenital anomalies in both 46,XX and 46,XY fetuses ( 95 , 96 ). More recently, numerous studies have indicated that fetal exposure to various endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) such as pesticides, fungicides, herbicides, and plasticizers may adversely affect genital development ( 97 - 99 ). Syndromes Associated with Ambiguous Genitalia As previously mentioned in sections of 46,XX and 46,XY DSD, ambiguous genitalia can be associated with syndromes characterized by multiple congenital malformations, as summarized in Table 4 . These associations arise because many of the transcription factors involved in sex development and differentiation also have roles in other aspects of development ( Table 4 ). For example, mutations of the WT-1 gene (11p3) can lead to several syndromes, including WAGR, Denys-Drash or Frasier syndromes ( 70 - 72 ). Mutations in SOX-9 (17q24-25) can result in campomelic dysplasia ( 100 ). Mutations in DMRT1/DMRT2 (9p24.3), EMX2 (10q25.3q26.13), ATRX (Xq13.3) and WNT-4 (1p35) are often associated with developmental delay ( 101 , 102 ). SF-1 (9q33) and DAX-1 (Xp21.3) play roles in the early formation of the adrenals, anterior pituitary, and parts of the hypothalamus. Consequently, mutations can lead to abnormalities of these organs, in addition to those of the urogenital system. Abnormal development of the lower abdominal wall with pubic diastasis can result in urogenital anomalies observed in the VA(C)TER(L) and CHARGE syndromes, as well as bladder and cloacal exstrophy ( 103 ). These examples underscore the complexities of the anomalies that may be associated with ambiguous genitalia in newborns and emphasize the importance of conducting a thorough physical examination and involving an experienced DSD team when faced with a child presenting ambiguous genitalia. WORKUP OF NEWBORNS WITH AMBIGUOUS GENITALIA The etiology of genital ambiguity in newborns is diverse and can have significant implications for management. Therefore, obtaining an accurate diagnosis through a medical workup is crucial. Some investigations are urgent, such as ruling out or confirming and treating potentially life-threatening adrenal insufficiency with mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid replacement therapy in children with underlying
