Ambiguous Genitalia in the Newborn
KEYWORDS: genitalia, pubmed, dsd, development, sex, ambiguous, ambiguous genitalia, deficiency, gonadal, androgen, genital, external, dysgenesis, female, newborns


medical workup is crucial. Some investigations are urgent, such as ruling out or confirming and treating potentially life-threatening adrenal insufficiency with mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid replacement therapy in children with underlying CAH. Additionally, associated organ anomalies may require immediate attention to ensure the child’s survival, such as cardiac, pulmonary, or kidney malfunctions. When the newborn is shown to be capable of excreting urine and stool without problems, and adrenal and other organ functions are found to be intact, investigations to understand genital ambiguity become primarily a psychosocial “emergency” for the family and caregivers. As a result, psychological support and holistic care by a DSD team as early as possible are essential to guide the parents and make decisions in the child’s best long-term interest. Obtaining an accurate diagnosis of the underlying cause of genital ambiguity early on is necessary for decision-making processes regarded to sex registration, hormonal and surgical treatments, and outcomes such as potential fertility and risk of gonadal malignancy. Therefore, it is recommended practice that a thorough workup should be performed for every child born with ambiguous genitalia, and guidelines for such assessments are available ( 22 , 104 - 107 ). Overall Assessment of the Child with Ambiguous Genitalia Figure 6 provides an overview of the initial workup for a newborn with ambiguous genitalia. Several aspects are considered, including pregnancy and family history, as well as postnatal adaptation (such as feeding, weight gain, alertness, excretion). In some cases, suspicion of genital ambiguity may arise during pregnancy through ultrasound surveillance. In such cases, first contact and information through a DSD team member (e.g., neonatologist, geneticist, pediatric endocrinologist) together with the DSD psychologist is recommended to guide the parents through pregnancy and alert the future care team early. Prenatal workup of ambiguous genitalia is generally not necessary if the fetus is otherwise developing normally without other organ anomalies that require attention. It is important to note that a fetus with CAH does not suffer from mineralocorticoid and cortisol deficiency in utero, as these hormones become essential only after birth ( Figure 4 ). Genetic workup of a child with ambiguous genitalia during the prenatal period may only be recommended when there is a previous index case with a diagnosis, or when parental genetic data inform an abnormality, and when genetic counseling of the parents has led to a personalized action plan. When taking the medical history of a newborn with
