Ambiguous Genitalia in the Newborn
KEYWORDS: genitalia, pubmed, dsd, development, sex, ambiguous, ambiguous genitalia, deficiency, gonadal, androgen, genital, external, dysgenesis, female, newborns


when parental genetic data inform an abnormality, and when genetic counseling of the parents has led to a personalized action plan. When taking the medical history of a newborn with ambiguous genitalia, asking specific questions can help guide the diagnostic workup and management. Figure 6 provides a list of important questions to consider. For example, androgenic drugs used in pregnancy may explain the virilization of a 46, XX newborns. Maternal virilization during pregnancy, for example, voice change and hirsutism may be important for the diagnoses of maternal virilizing tumors, P450 oxidoreductase (POR) deficiency, or placental aromatase deficiency. Questions about parental consanguinity are important, because many of the causes of ambiguous genitalia are recessively inherited. History of previously unexplained neonatal deaths, ambiguous genitalia, infertility or genital surgery in the family is important for identifying potential genetic etiologies. In addition to the medical history, every newborn with ambiguous genitalia should undergo a comprehensive physical examination, with a special focus on signs of adrenal insufficiency (dehydration, lethargy, poor feeding) and any dysmorphic features ( Figure 6 ). This examination may guide the diagnostic process. Figure 6. Algorithm for initial workup of the child with ambiguous genitalia at birth. Abbreviations: SDSST; Standard dose synthetic ACTH (synacthen) stimulation test, HCG; Human chorionic gonadotropin, WES; Whole exome sequencing, WGS; Whole genome sequencing, EMS; External masculinization score, EGS; External genital score, QF-PCR; quantitative fluorescence polymerase chain reaction, SRY FISH; SRY fluorescent in situ hybridization. Physical Examination of the External Genital Area Systematic assessment of the external genital area in newborns with ambiguous genitalia is crucial, and it should be carefully documented. Over the years, different scales and scoring systems have been used to evaluate the external genitalia. These assessments help provide a standardized way to document the physical characteristics, which is essential for comparing data over time and between different healthcare providers and patients. The use of these scales and scoring systems aids in follow-up and tracking of changes in the external genitalia. Historically, the Prader or Quigley scales were commonly used for this purpose ( 108 , 109 ) ( Figure 7 ). Later, the external masculinization score (EMS) was introduced as a more comprehensive assessment tool ( 104 ) ( Table 6 ). Nowadays, the external genital score (EGS) is recommended for evaluating and documenting the external genitalia ( 110 ) ( Table 7 ). These tools provide a structured way to assess and record
