Ambiguous Genitalia in the Newborn
KEYWORDS: genitalia, pubmed, dsd, development, sex, ambiguous, ambiguous genitalia, deficiency, gonadal, androgen, genital, external, dysgenesis, female, newborns


external genital score (EGS) is recommended for evaluating and documenting the external genitalia ( 110 ) ( Table 7 ). These tools provide a structured way to assess and record the physical findings, making it easier to monitor and communicate about the patient's condition. The careful examination of the external genitalia in newborns with ambiguous genitalia provides valuable non-invasive, indirect information about prenatal exposure and response to DHT, and about the timing of this exposure. For instance, androgen exposure must have occurred in the first trimester to cause labial fusion. During the genital exam, it’s important to measure the stretched phallic length, assess the quality of the corpora (erectile tissues), inspect of the labia, labio-scrotal folds, or scrotum, and document the position of the urethral opening (and vaginal opening, if applicable). Furthermore, the presence and location of palpable gonads should also be recorded. Any asymmetry in the gonads and external genitalia should be noted. Asymmetry in internal and/or external genital structures may suggest mixed gonadal dysgenesis or ovo-testicular DSD. All these observations can be documented using the external genital score (EGS), which provides a standardized way to assess and record the physical characteristics of the external genitalia ( Table 7 ). In addition, the anogenital distance (AGD), the distance between the anus and the base of the genitalia, can be helpful in determining the extent of androgen exposure during fetal development, as a higher ratio is generally consistent with increased androgen exposure ( 111 ) ( Table 8 ). In older infants, the anogenital index (AGI), which is the body weight standardized index of AGD [AGI/weight (mm/kg)], may be used for assessments to account for changes of the external genitalia through growth and postnatal development ( 111 ). Overall, a thorough examination and documentation of the external genitalia provide important clinical information that can guide the diagnosis and management of newborns with ambiguous genitalia. Figure 7. Prader and Quigley Scales for visual grading of external genital virilization. In Stage 3 a single urogenital orifice can be observed. Table 6. External Masculinization Score (EMS) View in own window External Masculinization Score (EMS). Scrotal fusion Micropenis Urethral meatus Right gonad Left gonad 3 Yes No Normal 2 Distal 1.5 Labioscrotal Labioscrotal 1 Mid Inguinal Inguinal 0.5 Abdominal Abdominal 0 No Yes Proximal Absent Absent An EMS score <11 out of 12 needs further clinical investigation for DSD in 46,XY. Table 7. External
