Ambiguous Genitalia in the Newborn
KEYWORDS: genitalia, pubmed, dsd, development, sex, ambiguous, ambiguous genitalia, deficiency, gonadal, androgen, genital, external, dysgenesis, female, newborns


initial classification of a newborn with ambiguous genitalia ( Table 3 ). Some centers have replaced karyotyping by array-comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) or SNP array, with faster turn-around times of 5–10 days. But these techniques will not detect structural chromosomal rearrangements and may be less effective at detecting sex chromosome mosaicism. HORMONE STUDIES Detailed hormone studies may be indicated including serum gonadotropins (LH, FSH), androgens and androgen precursors (17-hydroxypregnenolone, 17-hydroxyprogesterone, androstenedione, testosterone, dihydrotestosterone), adrenal steroids and hormones (cortisol, aldosterone, and their precursors; ACTH, renin), and anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) ( 1 , 24 ). Care must be taken when interpreting the results in premature babies, in whom these studies may need to be repeated at a later age and special normative value may apply. Even in term babies the timepoint and the clinical context (mode of delivery, drug effects, actual stress level etc.) need to be considered when evaluating hormonal data immediately after birth. Hormonal data change massively during delivery (e.g., surge) and within days thereafter. Additionally, it's essential to be aware that normative values for hormone levels can vary depending on the laboratory and the methods used for testing. The interpretation of hormonal data should be done by experienced healthcare providers and, if necessary, in consultation with a specialist in DSD. IMAGING STUDIES Ultrasound imaging of the abdominal-pelvic organs is a valuable diagnostic tool in the evaluation of newborns with ambiguous genitalia. It provides important insights into the internal reproductive and urinary structures, helping to determine the presence and characteristics of gonads, Müllerian structures (e.g., the uterus), and any associated abnormalities of the urinary tract. It can be performed at the first visit of a child with ambiguous genitalia. Of course, this investigation is not easy and may only be performed by an experienced ultra-sonographer to reveal meaningful results. Ultrasound can also detect abnormalities of the urinary tract (kidney, ureters, bladder) that sometimes occur in conjunction with genital ambiguity. Interestingly, data show that a child with a uterus and a female internal system that presents with ambiguous genitalia without gonads in the genital folds and has a 46,XX karyotype, will have in 80% of cases a diagnosis of a 46,XX CAH (most likely 21-hydroxylase deficiency). The information needed to come to this conclusion in a newborn with ambiguous genitalia can be available within 48 hours in institutions with an experienced DSD team. In a second step, usually after months or
