Ambiguous Genitalia in the Newborn
KEYWORDS: genitalia, pubmed, dsd, development, sex, ambiguous, ambiguous genitalia, deficiency, gonadal, androgen, genital, external, dysgenesis, female, newborns


to this conclusion in a newborn with ambiguous genitalia can be available within 48 hours in institutions with an experienced DSD team. In a second step, usually after months or years, additional imaging studies with MRI can be helpful in identifying both the type and extent of internal sex organ development in more details. An MRI may reveal further details on Müllerian structures (uterus remanent, fallopian tubes, upper portion of the vagina) than an ultrasound and can also help for localizing abdominal gonads. MRI may also be used for surveillance of the gonad at risk for cancer. A genitogram had been used in the past (often early) to visualize the urinary tract, and to determine its position in relation to the vagina or vagino-utricular pouch but is no longer performed in most institutions. However, in follow-up, cystoscopy and vaginoscopy may be used. These investigations are invasive procedures requiring general anesthesia, and therefore need to have a clear indication. Often, they are performed after complications such as urinary tract infections, to better understand the anatomy and its consequences, and in preparation for a surgical procedure ( 112 ). Overall, the choice of imaging studies and procedures should be guided by the individual's clinical presentation, diagnosis, and the specific clinical questions that need to be addressed. In many cases, a multi-disciplinary DSD team collaborates to determine the most appropriate imaging approach to provide a comprehensive evaluation and guide treatment decisions. GENETIC STUDIES The rapid advancement of genetic technologies, particularly massive parallel sequencing methods like DSD panels, whole exome sequencing (WES), and whole genome sequencing (WGS), has significantly expanded our understanding of the genes involved in sex development. As a result, genetic workup has become an integral part of the recommended routine evaluation for individuals with DSD and thus ambiguous genitalia at birth ( 8 , 22 , 24 , 113 , 114 ). While making a precise genetic diagnosis is still a challenge in some cases, the use of advanced genetic techniques has improved the diagnostic yield. Currently, a clear molecular-level diagnosis can be established in approximately half of individuals with 46,XY DSD who undergo genetic workup. However, as genetic technologies continue to evolve, and our understanding of sex development genes expands, it is likely that more cases, including those involving individuals with ambiguous genitalia at birth, will receive accurate and valid diagnoses. Therefore, re-review of genetically unsolved cases by a DSD
