Ambiguous Genitalia in the Newborn
KEYWORDS: genitalia, pubmed, dsd, development, sex, ambiguous, ambiguous genitalia, deficiency, gonadal, androgen, genital, external, dysgenesis, female, newborns


it is likely that more cases, including those involving individuals with ambiguous genitalia at birth, will receive accurate and valid diagnoses. Therefore, re-review of genetically unsolved cases by a DSD team and genetic re-analysis by DSD-specialized teams is recommended to achieve a final diagnosis in as many as possible. In summary, the integration of genetic workup, in combination with ongoing advancements in technology and genetic knowledge, is expected to enhance our ability to provide individuals with DSD, including those with ambiguous genitalia at birth, with more precise and comprehensive diagnoses in the future. This progress will lead to better-informed clinical decisions and management strategies for newborns with ambiguous genitalia. DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS Generally, the result from the karyotype plays a major role in the differential diagnosis and workup of DSD and thus ambiguous genitalia ( Table 3 ). In most cases, the chromosomes in newborns with ambiguous genitalia will be either 46,XX or 46,XY. In rare instances, chromosomal aberration such as 45,X/46,XY or 46,XX/46,XY mosaicism may be the underlying cause explaining the phenotype. Additionally, measurements of specific hormones, such as serum luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), sex steroids, AMH, inhibin B at birth and at follow-up, in the so-called mini-puberty of infancy period, can provide valuable information for the differential diagnosis of DSD and ambiguous genitalia. In the following we provide two flowcharts and give some general information for the step-by-step workup of newborns with ambiguous genitalia and either 46,XX or 46,XY chromosomes. 46, XX DSD A 46, XX karyotype in a newborn with ambiguous genitalia indicates that the child is a genetic female who was exposed to excessive amounts of androgens during fetal life. A flowchart for differential diagnosis is given in Figure 8 . Marked elevation of plasma 17-hydroxypregnenolone, 17-hydroxyprogesterone, 21-deoxycortisol and androstenedione, along with male-typical levels of testosterone, are characteristic of 21-hydroxylase deficiency ( CYP21A2 ). High values of corticosterone and 11-deoxycortisol, along with elevated androgens, indicate 11β-hydroxylase deficiency (biallelic mutations in CYP11B1 ). In 3beta-HSD deficiency (biallelic mutations in HSD3B2 ), calculation of ratios of delta-5 (pregnenolone, 17OH-pregnenolone, DHEA) over delta-4 (progesterone, 17OH-progesterone, androstenedione) steroid metabolites (see Figure 4 ) will point towards the genetic defect. Overall, comprehensive steroid profiling from blood or urine using chromatographic, mass spectrometric methods allow the diagnosis of most steroidogenic defects causing androgen excess CAH in 46,XX newborns ( 115 - 117 ) (see also Table 5 ). In addition, they
