Ambiguous Genitalia in the Newborn
KEYWORDS: genitalia, pubmed, dsd, development, sex, ambiguous, ambiguous genitalia, deficiency, gonadal, androgen, genital, external, dysgenesis, female, newborns


mass spectrometric methods allow the diagnosis of most steroidogenic defects causing androgen excess CAH in 46,XX newborns ( 115 - 117 ) (see also Table 5 ). In addition, they have led to the description of novel alternate pathways to produce active androgens in the intermediate metabolism through the backdoor or 11-oxygenated pathways, especially in disorders such as 21-hydroxylase or POR deficiencies, thereby enhancing our understanding and diagnostic possibilities ( 115 , 117 , 118 ) ( Figure 4 ). However, these methods are not (yet) widely available, and the interpretation of these data is not trivial. In addition, instruments and methods vary from lab to lab. Thus, method validation is tedious and comparison between labs difficult so far ( 119 - 121 ). When excess maternal androgen production is the underlying cause for masculinization of a female fetus, the source of these steroids is eliminated postnatally. Thus, the various steroids studied in affected newborns will be in the female-typical range despite masculinization of the external genitalia. Then, detailed examination of the mother may provide the explanation. Likewise, in cases of mild POR deficiency or aromatase deficiency, in which the feto-placental unit was not able to metabolize the fetal androgens and led to ambiguous genitalia, the problem will not (always) be visible in the newborn’s steroid metabolome, and the diagnosis may only be made by genetic testing. If not, only in later life, when aromatase activity is needed for estrogen production in puberty, or when ovarian cysts hint an underlying problem, the diagnosis may be made ( Figure 8 ). In individuals with ovo-testicular DSD and 46,XX chromosomes, masculinization arises from androgens secreted by the testicular portion of the differentiated gonads. Androgen production is similar to that produced by testes in unaffected males except that the amount is usually smaller. The degree of masculinization of the genitalia is thus linked to the amount of functioning testicular tissue, which can be determined by a serum AMH measurement ( Table 9 ) ( 122 ). Very low values of AMH and female-typical values for LH/FSH ( Tables 9 and 10 ) are expected in 46,XX newborns with masculinized/virilized genitalia that is attributed to CAH or excess maternal androgen production during gestation ( 122 , 123 ). AMH is higher in newborns with ovo-testicular DSD, due to Sertoli cell development in the testicular portion of their gonads where AMH is mainly produced. On
