Ambiguous Genitalia in the Newborn
KEYWORDS: genitalia, pubmed, dsd, development, sex, ambiguous, ambiguous genitalia, deficiency, gonadal, androgen, genital, external, dysgenesis, female, newborns


Abbreviations: LH, luteinizing hormone; FSH, follicle-stimulating hormone. 46, XY DSD A 46, XY karyotype reveals that one is dealing with a genetic male who was under-masculinized during fetal development. A flowchart for differential diagnosis is given in Figure 9 . Laboratory findings of normal or elevated testosterone and DHT with normal AMH ( Figure 9 ) indicate a diagnosis of AIS. If testosterone levels are normal but DHT levels are low, a diagnosis of steroid 5α-reductase deficiency can be made. Low levels of testosterone and DHT, along with marked elevation of some androgen precursors, indicate a deficiency of one of the enzymes required for androgen biosynthesis ( Figure 9 ). For example, if the elevated precursors include androstenedione and 17-hydroxyprogesterone, then the defective enzyme is 17-ketosteroid reductase (HSD17B3). In all cases of testosterone biosynthetic defects, AMH levels are similar to those observed in healthy 46,XY male infants with male-typical external genitalia ( Figure 9 ). With early defects of steroidogenesis that affect both adrenal and gonadal function, it is though important to evaluate adrenal function, as it might be impaired with deficiencies of STAR, CYP11A1, HSD3B2, CYP17A1 and POR ( Table 5 , Figure 9 ). Finally, when all androgens and their precursors are below normal levels, one is dealing with gonadal dysgenesis or 46,XY ovo-testicular DSD. In these cases, AMH values should also be low. In contrast, for babies affected by Leydig cell hypoplasia, androgens and their precursors are low, while AMH values should be in the normal male range. Figure 9. 46,XY DSD decision tree diagram. Abbreviations: USG: Ultrasound; 17OHP: 17OH-Progesterone; DSD: Differences in sex development; AMH: Anti-Müllerian hormone; T: Testosterone; N: Normal; PMDS: Persistent Müllerian duct syndrome; AIS: Androgen insensitivity syndrome; SRD5A2: 5α-reductase A2; HCG: Human chorionic gonadotropin; DHT: Dihydrotestosterone; 3β-HSD2: 3β-Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2; CYP17A1: 17α-Hydroxylase/17-20 lyase; POR: P450 oxidoreductase; StAR: Steroidogenic acute regulatory protein; CYP11A1; Cholesterol side-chain cleavage enzyme; 17β-HSD3: 17β-Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 3; AKR1C2/4: Aldo-keto reductase family 1 member C2/4; CYB5: Cytochrome b5. Testing Early Postnatal Gonadal Function and Mini-Puberty In cases of ambiguous genitalia where a diagnosis may not be reached through first line investigations, and where a gonadal malfunction is suspected, functional testing and/or re-analysis of gonadal function at the timepoint of mini-puberty may be helpful, especially also with respect to having information when making considerations towards sex of registration (e.g., in utero effect of sex hormones on the brain) and prediction
