Ambiguous Genitalia in the Newborn
KEYWORDS: genitalia, pubmed, dsd, development, sex, ambiguous, ambiguous genitalia, deficiency, gonadal, androgen, genital, external, dysgenesis, female, newborns


geometric mean; LH, luteinizing hormone; FSH, follicle-stimulating hormone; T, testosterone; RIA, radioimmunoassay; SHBG, sex-hormone binding globulin; AMH, anti-Müllerian hormone; LC-MS/MS, liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry; NA, not available. HCG Testing of Gonadal Function in a DSD Newborn The human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) test can assess whether in a newborn with ambiguous genitalia, functioning Leydig cells are present. The test may therefore be useful for diagnosing testosterone biosynthesis defects such as HSD17B3 or SRD5A2 deficiency ( Table 12 ). Several protocols for the hCG test exist, but all baseline serum samples are taken for T, DHT and precursors. Then, one to three intramuscular injections of high dose hCG (500-1500 IU) are given at 24 hours interval, and finally repeat stimulated samples are taken for androgen measurements after 72 or 24 hours, respectively, after the last injection. The following Table 12 shows how results of the test may be interpreted in various DSD conditions that may lead to ambiguous genitalia ( 125 , 126 ). Table 12. Interpretation of hCG Stimulation Test Results ( 125 , 126 ) View in own window Indication Consideration Abnormal result Testosterone biosynthesis defects T before and after hCG administration T increase < 100-150 ng/dL (3.5-5 nmol/L) 5α-Reductase deficiency T/DHT ratio after hCG administration ≥ 8.5 for minipuberty, ≥ 10 for prepuberty, ≥ 17 for puberty, > 20 in genetically proven cases using LC-MS/MS 17β-HSD3 deficiency T/A4 ratio after hCG administration < 0.8 AIS T, SHBG before and after hCG administration T increases but SHBG does not change significantly Abbreviations: T, testosterone; DHT, dihydrotestosterone; HCG, human chorionic gonadotropin; A4, androstenedione; SHBG, sex-hormone binding globulin; AMH, anti-Müllerian hormone; LC-MS/MS, liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry; 17β-HSD3 deficiency, 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 3 deficiency; AIS, androgen insensitivity syndrome. RISK OF MALIGNANCY OF THE DSD GONAD Individuals with certain disorders of sex development (DSD), especially those involving Y chromosome material, have an increased risk of developing gonadal tumors. These tumors are mainly gonadal germ cell tumors (GGCTs), which occur in about 15% of all DSD cases, with the risk varying depending on the age and specific underlying diagnosis. Gonadal stromal tumors and smooth muscle leiomyomas/hamartomas are less common and are found in only about 0.9% of DSD cases ( 127 ). Risk factors for development of gonadal malignancy in DSD are shown in Figure 10 . Several factors contribute to the increased risk of gonadal malignancy in individuals with DSD, including genetic factors, the
