Ambiguous Genitalia in the Newborn
KEYWORDS: genitalia, pubmed, dsd, development, sex, ambiguous, ambiguous genitalia, deficiency, gonadal, androgen, genital, external, dysgenesis, female, newborns


development of gonadal malignancy in DSD are shown in Figure 10 . Several factors contribute to the increased risk of gonadal malignancy in individuals with DSD, including genetic factors, the presence of Y chromosome material, and the type of DSD. Therefore, ongoing monitoring and appropriate management are essential to minimize this risk. While gonadectomy (surgical removal of the gonads) is not recommended for every case of 46,XY DSD, it's crucial to consider the risk of malignant tumors in the decision-making process ( 1 , 69 ). The consensus statement on the management of DSD provides guidelines and recommendations regarding the timing of gonadectomy for specific patients. These recommendations aim to balance the potential benefits of gonadectomy with the associated risks and individual patient needs. In individuals with DSDs, germ cells typically undergo a process of apoptosis (programmed cell death) as the body grows and develops. This process eliminates germ cells that are not needed for reproduction. However, in some cases, certain germ cells may not undergo the normal maturation process and remain in an immature state. These immature germ cells can continue to express embryonic markers such as octamer-binding transcription factor 3/4 (OCT3/4) encoded by POU5F1 ; stem cell factor (SCF), also known as c-KIT ligand (encoded by KITLG); and placental alkaline phosphatase (PLAP). These cells are susceptible to developing into cancerous lesions, starting as pre-invasive lesions (gonado-blastoma) or as precursors to invasive GGCT (dysgerminoma) ( Figure 10 ). DSD patients who have Y chromosome material in their gonadal karyotype are at risk of GGCTs regardless of the degree of testicular differentiation. Y chromosome material associated with gonadal tumors is GBY locus which is around the centromere of the Y chromosome and includes the gene for ¨testis-specific protein on the Y chromosome¨ ( TSPY , located in Yp11.2). Other potentially related genes are SRY and DYZ3 . The risk of developing gonadal tumors in gonadal dysgenesis may also vary according to the underlying molecular etiology. Patients with genetic defects that lead to early blockage of gonadal development such as mutation or deletions of SRY or WT1 have a higher risk. The risk of developing gonadal tumors ranges from 40% to 60% in gonadal dysgenesis due to WT1 gene mutations (Frasier syndrome and Denys-Drash syndrome). Early bilateral gonadectomy is therefore recommended. Similarly, early bilateral gonadectomy is recommended in patients with complete or partial gonadal dysgenesis due to SRY gene mutations due
