Ambiguous Genitalia in the Newborn
KEYWORDS: genitalia, pubmed, dsd, development, sex, ambiguous, ambiguous genitalia, deficiency, gonadal, androgen, genital, external, dysgenesis, female, newborns


syndrome and Denys-Drash syndrome). Early bilateral gonadectomy is therefore recommended. Similarly, early bilateral gonadectomy is recommended in patients with complete or partial gonadal dysgenesis due to SRY gene mutations due to the 20% to 52.5% risk of gonadal tumor development. Gonadal dysgenesis due to MAP3K1 gene mutations is another indication for early gonadectomy ( 127 ). Gonadal tumor risk is also present, though somewhat lower in gonadal dysgenesis due to 45,X0/46,XY mosaicism. The exact time of malignancy development and the prevalence of tumors in other molecular etiologies require further research for a comprehensive understanding. Histologically the risk of gonadal tumor development increases with gonadal immaturity. Fully developed gonads such as the testes, ovary or ovotestis have lower risk of malignancy than streak or dysgenetic testes ( Figure 10 ). In ovo-testicular DSD, the risk of germ cell tumors is low (3%) ( 1 ). Newborns with PAIS are at high risk (50%) for developing gonadal tumors, and bilateral orchiopexy or gonadectomy is recommended at the time of diagnosis, if the testes are located in the abdomen ( 1 , 128 ). The risk of developing germ cell malignancy in newborns with CYP11A1, HSD3B2 or CYP17A1 deficiency is unknown. Newborns with 17-ketosteroid reductase deficiency have a fairly low risk for malignancy ( 1 ). Tumor risk in newborns with Leydig cell hypoplasia is unclear, and thus the recommendation for gonadectomy is not well established ( 1 , 25 , 129 , 130 ). Overall, it remains challenging to predict the personal risk of gonadal neoplasia (mostly GGCT) for a DSD individual, because it depends on many other factors besides genetics. Stimulating gonadotropins and gonadal hormones during mini-puberty and after puberty onset are also regarded as risk factors increasing gonadal tumor risk in patients with DSD. Similarly, gonads located intra-abdominal carry a higher tumor risk. The management of gonadal tumor risk in individuals with DSD is a complex issue that requires careful consideration and a personalized approach, taking into account the specific DSD subtype, genetic factors, and patient preferences. Regular monitoring and discussions with a healthcare team experienced in DSD management are essential to make informed decisions about gonadectomy. If gonads are located in the scrotum, then periodic examination of the testes may be advised as an alternative to gonadectomy, while an intra-abdominal gonad at risk may only be monitored by imaging methods such as ultrasound or MRI. Figure 10. Risk of
