Ambiguous Genitalia in the Newborn
KEYWORDS: genitalia, pubmed, dsd, development, sex, ambiguous, ambiguous genitalia, deficiency, gonadal, androgen, genital, external, dysgenesis, female, newborns


may be advised as an alternative to gonadectomy, while an intra-abdominal gonad at risk may only be monitored by imaging methods such as ultrasound or MRI. Figure 10. Risk of malignancy development in the DSD gonad. Abbreviations: (OCT3/4); Octamer-binding transcription factor 3/4, TSPY; testis-specific protein on the Y chromosome, c-KITL; c-KIT ligand also called stem cell factor (SCF). SEX REGISTRATION OF A NEWBORN Assigning or registering the sex of a newborn with atypical external genitalia is a complex and important decision that requires careful consideration, consultation, and a patient-centered approach. The parents and DSD network team should not rush but take the time needed to come to a consensus in the best interest of the child in its environment. Not knowing whether the newborn is a girl or boy causes mostly a lot of distress and one is tempted to call it an emergency, but if there are no medical reasons to make it an emergency (like e.g., suspected adrenal insufficiency or additional organ anomalies), it is important to declare it accordingly and inform that the newborn is not at risk and actually does not care whether it is a male or female or intersex person at this moment. Thus, the stress of ambiguity of the newborn is actually at this moment “only” an issue of the parents and the care team who mostly wish to know ASAP whether the child can be assigned/registered a “correct” sex that might also fit later in life. To consider sex registration, not only is it important to take into account the underlying cause and knowledge on the possible outcome of the specific, often unique condition, but also the family, cultural, and societal preconditions and aspects. Most societies have a binary sex registration obligation by legislation, but some societies have more recently introduced a third sex category besides male and female. Although this seems to make things easier, it has been discussed that such categorization in a third or other or unclassified group might also stigmatize a person in a society that is mostly binary. Thus, in real life practice, there is rumor that a third sex category is rarely chosen for a newborn with ambiguous genitalia by the parents and the DSD team. Overall, a personalized approach for every newborn with ambiguous genitalia involving the parents and the DSD network team is recommended following the shared-decision-making process ( 12 , 13 ). Most
