Ambiguous Genitalia in the Newborn
KEYWORDS: genitalia, pubmed, dsd, development, sex, ambiguous, ambiguous genitalia, deficiency, gonadal, androgen, genital, external, dysgenesis, female, newborns


Overall, a personalized approach for every newborn with ambiguous genitalia involving the parents and the DSD network team is recommended following the shared-decision-making process ( 12 , 13 ). Most important is that the team around the newborn with ambiguous genitalia works together in the best interest of the child with the latest knowledge of the literature and expertise when taking the decision of sex registration, and still remains humble and open minded for the child’s future that may follow a different path leading to sex reassignment later in life. Therefore, continuous support of the family and the child by a DSD psychologist is extremely helpful to recognize early signs of gender dysphoria, inform the child about the condition in an age-appropriate manner and follow its will, if case sex reassignment is desired. Generally, people believe that the sex chromosomes indicate a person’s “true sex” and laws exist supporting this idea, to the detriment of some individuals affected by DSD ( 131 ). Scientifically speaking, it is clear that the majority of genes on the X chromosome do not influence sex development and differentiation, although the AR gene is necessary for phenotypic masculinization. Concerning the Y chromosome, only the SRY gene contributes to testicular formation. In fact, most of the genes required for sex development and differentiation are found on the autosomes ( 1 ). Therefore, chromosomes do not dictate the sex of rearing in newborns affected by a DSD and are only one piece of a big puzzle ( Figure 3 ). Although there is no overall recommendation for sex registration at birth for a child with ambiguous genitalia, some helpful information is available from larger patients’ cohorts with a specific DSD diagnosis in the literature. Newborns presenting with 46,XY chromosomes and female external genitalia at birth (thus actually not with ambiguous genitalia) due to complete androgen insensitivity syndromes (CAIS), complete gonadal dysgenesis (Swyer syndrome), or other complete loss of testosterone biosynthesis live successfully when assigned a female sex of rearing. Female assignment in such cases is widely accepted by patients throughout their lives despite challenges that they may experience regarding sexual dysfunction and infertility ( 1 , 132 - 134 ). For newborns with ambiguous genitalia affected by partial gonadal dysgenesis, no general recommendation can be made. Fewer procedures were historically required for surgical feminization compared to surgical masculinization of the genitalia. However, the functional outcome in individuals
