Ambiguous Genitalia in the Newborn
KEYWORDS: genitalia, pubmed, dsd, development, sex, ambiguous, ambiguous genitalia, deficiency, gonadal, androgen, genital, external, dysgenesis, female, newborns


partial gonadal dysgenesis, no general recommendation can be made. Fewer procedures were historically required for surgical feminization compared to surgical masculinization of the genitalia. However, the functional outcome in individuals who received feminizing or masculinizing procedures is less than optimal ( 135 , 136 ). Additionally, rates of satisfaction with sex of rearing are similar for affected individuals whether raised male or female ( 1 , 20 , 137 ). Thus, the decision should not be made on the basis of “surgical possibilities”, and overall, such surgical procedures should be executed with reservation. Clearly, further studies are needed to elucidate why some individuals with partial gonadal dysgenesis experience gender dysphoria, while others do not. Likewise, no general recommendation can be made for patients with ambiguous genitalia due to a partial androgen biosynthesis defect, (e.g., partial 3βHSD2, CYP17A1, POR, StAR, CYP11A1 deficiencies). But some studies suggest that the degree of masculinization of the external genitalia may reflect the degree of virilization of the brain and thus the gender preference of this person ( 138 ). This might be true for 46,XY newborns with ambiguous genitalia that are manifesting with severe hypospadias, but not without exceptions. For patients with variants in the SRD5A2 or HSD17B3 genes recognized with ambiguous genitalia at birth (or even missed because manifesting with a female-typical external genitalia), there is quite a strong body of data recommending male sex registration at birth as this is the preferred sex of these persons when asked in later life ( 139 , 140 ). Normal virilization at puberty, coupled with intact fertility potential, are strong factors for this recommendation at birth. If registered as female at birth and diagnosed later, gender dysphoria and desire of sex reassignment later in life is very likely. Similar to partial gonadal dysgenesis, consensus regarding an optimal sex of registration for newborns affected by PAIS does not exist. Although earlier data showed that fewer procedures were usually required for surgical feminization, compared to surgical masculinization, in a person with ambiguous external genitalia in the past, when larger series of genital surgery were analyzed, it is unclear if the functional outcome was better among newborns who received feminizing procedures compared to those who received masculinizing procedures. Rates of satisfaction with sex of rearing are similar for individuals with PAIS raised female or male ( 132 , 141 ). While reports exist of impaired sexual function in people
