Ambiguous Genitalia in the Newborn
KEYWORDS: genitalia, pubmed, dsd, development, sex, ambiguous, ambiguous genitalia, deficiency, gonadal, androgen, genital, external, dysgenesis, female, newborns


of satisfaction with sex of rearing are similar for individuals with PAIS raised female or male ( 132 , 141 ). While reports exist of impaired sexual function in people with PAIS raised male, it is highly suspected that sexual functional outcomes in affected people raised female are similarly poor ( 137 ). Reports of sexual satisfaction for people with PAIS who have not received genitoplasty in infancy, or at a later age, are limited. However, more information on outcome of newborns with ambiguous genitalia who had no genital surgery, at least not in infancy and childhood, will hopefully soon be added to the medical literature as current developments recommend abstaining from genital surgery. By contrast, in 46,XX newborns with ambiguous genitalia due to CAH, it is generally recommended to register them a priori in the female sex, even if they are severely virilized ( 142 - 144 ). Masculinization due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency does not impair the development of the ovaries or the Müllerian ducts and thus fertility potential. Limited information is available about the medical and psychosexual outcome of 46,XX newborns affected by 21-hydroxylase deficiency and raised male ( 145 , 146 ), although these patients do tend to have an increased risk of gender dysphoria compared to their female counterparts ( 147 ). Thus, a female sex of rearing is typically the decision for 46,XX newborns affected by 21-hydroxylase deficiency ( 145 ). Female sex of rearing in 46,XX newborns with ambiguous genitalia is also recommended for conditions resulting from maternal overexposure to androgens and placental aromatase deficiency. FINAL REMARKS TO OVERALL MANAGEMENT Only recently has the understanding of, and reaction to, having a child with ambiguous genitalia received systematic study. For some parents and caregivers, feelings of isolation and concern over what the future may hold for their affected child in terms of stigmatization and sexual dysfunction are paramount ( 148 ). One potential approach to ameliorate this issue is to provide information and management options to the family early in pregnancy or as soon as the child is born. Guidance by a DSD network team is therefore extremely important. Some research has been done to examine the effects of prenatal diagnosis and treatment. In females with 21-hydroxylase deficiency CAH, one of the most common causes of ambiguous genitalia, dexamethasone treatment of the pregnant mother has been reported to reduce virilization of an affected female fetus
