Ambiguous Genitalia in the Newborn
KEYWORDS: genitalia, pubmed, dsd, development, sex, ambiguous, ambiguous genitalia, deficiency, gonadal, androgen, genital, external, dysgenesis, female, newborns


concerns for their son or daughter resurface ( 148 ). To illustrate, among parents studied by our group, caregivers of adolescents with DSD experienced increased stress as their child matured despite the fact that many had received earlier surgery ( 154 ). Additionally, parents of children reared male reported the most perceived child vulnerability for their sons ( 155 ),and their reported levels of depression were directly associated with more atypical genital appearance for their sons ( 156 ). Overall, parents report that while early genitoplasty seems to “fix” some of their concerns for their child with DSD, this “fix” is not long-lasting. Instead, what needs to be emphasized to families is how to support their child who is different, but not damaged. Family centered, interdisciplinary care, with open and clear communication between patients, parents, and caregivers has been shown to be essential for optimal quality of life ( 157 ). In addition, networks of families who have the personal experience of parenting children with ambiguous genitalia can be an invaluable resource ( 158 ). Reservation towards early interventions needs to be considered,keeping in mind to preserve the personal right of the child to take his/her own decision towards body integrity. Any intervention that can be delayed without harming the newborn with ambiguous genitalia should be postponed until personal consent can be given. Finally, referring parents to support groups and introducing them to other caregivers of children born with ambiguous genitalia is extremely important to optimize parents’ understanding and acceptance of their child’s condition. With increased understanding and acceptance, optimal growth and development for children born with ambiguous genitalia may be obtained. In conclusion, this Chapter give some insight into the current diagnostic evaluation and care of the newborn with ambiguous genitalia. We underscore the importance of a multidisciplinary and compassionate approach to the care of newborns with ambiguous genitalia, acknowledging the complex medical, psychological, and emotional aspects involved in such cases. We highlight the critical role of specialized teams and support in ensuring the well-being of both the child and his/her family. REFERENCES 1. Hughes IA, Houk C, Ahmed SF, Lee PA. Consensus statement on management of intersex disorders. Arch Dis Child. 2006;91(7):554-63. [ PMC free article : PMC2082839 ] [ PubMed : 16624884 ] 2. Halil H, Oguz SS. Establishment of normative data for stretched penile length in Turkish preterm and term newborns. Turk J Pediatr. 2017;59(3):269-73. [
