Zheng et al. BMC Pediatrics (2023) 23:233 BMC Pediatrics
KEYWORDS: reference, values, vein, hes, reference values, day, blood, portal, thrombosis, damage, day day, cells, liver, portal vein, case


International License, which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication waiver ( applies to the data made available in this article, unless otherwise stated in a credit line to the data. allergies, tumors and parasitic infections. The thrombi in view of the serious condition of the child and the com- were recanalized after administration of methylprednis- plex, unknown cause, coupled with the guardian who was olone succinate and low molecular weight heparin. All very worried about the condition of the child, referred tional and/or national ethical standards and the Declara- of abdominal pain with no nausea or vomiting. Scat- tion of Helsinki (revised 2013). tered petechiae were present on the dorsum of his feet. No bruising, ecchymoses, epistaxis or gingival bleeding Case description was observed. The family reported no previous history of A 12-year-old boy weighing 64 kg started complaining of allergies or exposure to drugs before the onset of symp- headache associated with fever and abdominal pain. On toms. The child did not eat raw meat or unwashed fruits/ the third day, the headache worsened and the parents vegetables before the appearance of headache. The per- took him to a local clinic. The child was treated with oral sonal and family health histories were not relevant. At the medications for an acute upper respiratory tract infec- physical examination, no dry or wet rales were heard in tion. During the following three days the headache aggra- the lungs. Heart sounds were normal. The abdomen was vated severely. Nausea, vomiting and abdominal pain flat, no varicose veins were seen. The upper abdominal were also present. The body temperature was 37.2 °C. muscles were tense, with mild tenderness on palpation. istered an intramuscular injection of an anti-inflamma- were not palpable under the ribs. The blood examina- tory drug to the child. On the seventh day the symptoms tion
