Zheng et al. BMC Pediatrics (2023) 23:233 BMC Pediatrics
KEYWORDS: reference, values, vein, hes, reference values, day, blood, portal, thrombosis, damage, day day, cells, liver, portal vein, case


right lower lobe. The Doppler ultrasound showed no abnormalities in the gastrointestinal tract. A thrombosis of left and right branches of the portal vein was described, along with a thrombosis of the superior mesenteric vein and a throm- bosis of the splenic vein. The liver was slightly enlarged with diffuse parenchymal echogenic changes. The vol- ume of the gallbladder was increased. The wall of the gallbladder was thickened, while little biliary sludge was deposited inside the gallbladder. The magnetic resonance imaging of the brain showed an enlarged cisterna magna. The overall findings supported the diagnosis of HES com- plicated with thromboses of the portal vein, the splenic vein and the superior mesenteric vein. We administered injections of methylprednisolone succinate (60 mg daily), subcutaneous injections of low molecular weight hepa- rin calcium (10,000 IU daily), ornidazole and rehydration therapy. The rash on the dorsum of his feet resolved com- Fig. 3 Arrows refer to tromboses in the left branch of portal vein pletely after 6 days of treatment, and the platelet count rose to 128 × 109/l. With the relief of abdominal pain symptoms, methylprednisolone succinate was reduced to 40 mg daily and then changed to 24 mg oral tablets. The treatment process is described in Table 1. After 25 days, the abdominal pain disappeared. Liver function returned to normal. Signs of venous thromboses were still visible. During the following month, the child did not report any sequelae. The examination results are shown in Tables 2, 3 and 4; Fig. 4. Discussion HES is a rare heterogeneous disease manifesting as an unexplained persistent eosinophilia, with or without multiple tissue and organ damage. It can be divided into secondary (reactive), primary (clonal), and idiopathic HES. Infections and drug reactions are the most common did not perform any blood test at the local clinic and the guardian did not remember any previous drug therapy. We cannot exclude the use of a drug as the cause of HES. The first blood test was performed at the tertiary hospi- tal, revealing an increase in absolute eosinophil count. of hypersensitivity throughout the 25 days of treatment. We found no signs of fungal or parasitic infections. After an internal discussion with the medical team, we sus- pected the cause might be an unknown infection. Previous studies reported that HES is often compli- cated by severe cardiac or cerebral thromboses . The abdominal CT scan showed thrombi blocking
