Zheng et al. BMC Pediatrics (2023) 23:233 BMC Pediatrics
KEYWORDS: reference, values, vein, hes, reference values, day, blood, portal, thrombosis, damage, day day, cells, liver, portal vein, case


reported by the authors. eases. Furthermore, the etiology of eosinophilia can be primary (myeloid), secondary (lymphocyte-driven) or Ethical approval unknown. It is difficult to distinguish the HES subtype This study was approved by the Ethical Committee of the First Affiliated Hospital of Henan University of Chinese Medicine (China). This case report was written in accordance with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability roids remain the first-line treatment for most subtypes, Act (HIPAA) regulations. The patient’s parents/legal guardians provided the but the increasing availability of novel therapeutic agents, informed consent for data collection and publication. including tyrosine kinase inhibitors for distinct driver Consent for publication clonal aberrations and monoclonal antibodies only on Consent for publication was obtained from the participant’s mother, Zhao clinical protocols for patients with life-threatening HES Jing. refractory to standard therapies or with eosinophilic Competing interests granulomatosis with polyangiitis, has certainly changed The authors declare no competing interests. the treatment approaches for HES . Due to the low number of HES cases reported in children and the high Received: 21 November 2022 / Accepted: 15 April 2023 heterogeneity among different individuals, it is necessary to individualize the treatment according to the etiology, disease progression, eosinophil level and organ damage. Conclusions References 1. Farruggia P, Giugliano E, Russo D, Trizzino A, Lorenzatti R, Santoro A, D’Angelo We described a pediatric case of HES complicated P: FIP1L1-PDGFRalpha-positive hypereosinophilic syndrome in child- with liver damage and thromboses of the portal vein, hood: a case report and review of literature. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol 2014, 36(1):e28-e30. the splenic vein and the superior mesenteric vein. The 2. Butt NM, Lambert J, Ali S, Beer PA, Cross NC, Duncombe A, Ewing J, Harrison thrombi were recanalized and liver enzymes returned CN, Knapper S, McLornan D et al: Guideline for the investigation and man- to normal after treatment with methylprednisolone suc- agement of eosinophilia. Br J Haematol 2017, 176(4):553–572. 3. Klion A: Hypereosinophilic syndrome: current approach to diagnosis and cinate, low molecular weight heparin and antioxidants. treatment. ANNU REV MED 2009, 60:293–306. This single case could facilitate early detection and inter- 4. Hwang JW, Kim H, Cho SW, Shin YC, Kim HS, Cho YJ, Kwak JJ: Idiopathic hype- vention in patients with HES. Early recognition and man- reosinophilic syndrome with intracardiac atypical linear-shaped and floating thrombus presenting as embolic cerebral infarction. J Cardiol Cases 2021, agement with steroids and anticoagulants is important to 23(5):193–197. prevent
