United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: ced, anti, gluten, diagnosis, diagnostic, iga, evidence, disease, hla, patients, coeliac, low, strong, studies, marsh


di- (e.g., immunisations and strategies to mitigate bone mineral etitians and statisticians with expertise in scientific GFD adherence. Finally, a systematic approach is outlined for peuticmanagementofCeD.Atotalofsixworkinggroupswere the assessment and management of patients with delayed established(1:serologyinCeD;2:histopathologicaldiagnosis;3: symptomatic response to a GFD and those with suspected or diagnosis;4:management;5:follow‐upandmonitoring;6:non‐ confirmedrefractorycoeliacdisease. responsive and refractory CeD), each consisting of 3–4 group members. Theoverallobjectiveoftheseguidelinesistoprovideevidence‐ based recommendations for the diagnosis and management of TheAssociationofEuropeanCoeliacSocieties(AOECS),which CeDinadults. is an umbrella organisation of European member societies which represents the interests of people affected by CeD, was consulted at an early stage in the preparation process. The AOECS has reviewed the manuscript and provided insights 3.2 | Target Users regardingthemanagementofCeDfrompatients'organisations perspectives. Thetargetusersoftheguidelinesarecliniciansinvolvedinthe careofadultpatientswithCeD. The panel's initial task was to review the previous ESsCD guidelines published in 2019 and identify topics that had Policy makers interested in these guidelines include those recently seen significant changes, but also to fully revise the involved in developing local, national or international plans evidenceforallthefundamentalsectionsofthe2019guidelines. dealingwithcareforCeD.Thisdocumentmayalsoserveasthe Initially,eachsubgroupidentifiedkeyclinicalquestionsintheir basis for adaptation by local, regional or national guideline area,andtheentiregroupthenfinalizedthesetofquestionsto panels. address. UnitedEuropeanGastroenterologyJournal,2025 1861 3.4 | Literature Search and Assessment of the performance of diagnostic tests. The certainty was subse- Evidence quently downgraded based on risk of bias, inconsistency, indi- rectness, imprecision, or publication bias. For other non‐ A comprehensive literature search was conducted across diagnostic outcomes, initial certainty was based on study PubMed, Embase, Google Scholar, and Scopus, with keywords design, with observational studies starting at low certainty un- including ‘coeliac’, ‘coeliac’, ‘non‐tropical sprue’, ‘gluten’, less upgraded due to compelling factors. Where no direct evi- ‘dermatitis herpetiformis’, ‘enteropathy’, and ‘ataxia’, without dencewasavailable,certaintywasratedasverylow. languagerestrictions. Importantly, the guidelines panel distinguished between the The search strategy was based onthe PICO (Population,Inter- certainty of evidence (reflecting the quality of underlying vention, Comparator, Outcome) framework, ensuring that studies) and the strength of recommendations (reflecting con- relevant studies were identified for each clinical question. We fidence that the desirable effects outweigh the undesirable ef- included systematic reviews and other documents providing a fects). The strength of each recommendation was determined critical synthesis of the scientificliterature, as wellas random- through a structured assessment of relevant factors—including includedinsystematicreviewswerenotassessedseparately,as resource implications, feasibility, acceptability, and equity. we prioritised the systematic reviews. When primary studies Thesejudgementsweredocumentedintheevidence‐to‐decision overlappedacrosssystematicreviews,allrelevantreviewswere (EtD) tables, which applied up to 17 criteria for diagnostic retained and included in the assessment of the certainty of ev- questions and 12 for therapeutic interventions. Where strong idence. In cases where
