United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: ced, anti, gluten, diagnosis, diagnostic, iga, evidence, disease, hla, patients, coeliac, low, strong, studies, marsh


applied up to 17 criteria for diagnostic retained and included in the assessment of the certainty of ev- questions and 12 for therapeutic interventions. Where strong idence. In cases where high‐quality systematic reviews were recommendationswereissuedbasedonlow‐certaintyevidence, unavailable or outdated, individual primary studies published this was explicitly justified by contextual or implementation after the last search date were identified and considered to considerations. maintainacurrentevidencebase. Recommendations were classified as strong, conditional or The panel identified and prioritized critical and important weak. Where high‐certainty evidence was lacking and expert and patient‐centred care. For each included publication, data ‘ungraded good practice statements’ (UGPS). Each recommen- were extracted regarding the study characteristics, including dationincludestheclinicalquestion,therecommendationitself, objectives,participantsandsetting,interventions,studydesign, the certainty of evidence, the strength of the recommendation, mainresultsandconclusions,whichweresummarisedintables and the panel's level of agreement. UGPS are applied when accordingtoeachPICOquestion(SupportingInformationS1). there is clear consensus that a practice is beneficial, safe, and self‐evident, and therefore does not require formal evidence The methodological quality of the included systematic reviews grading. In contrast, ‘ungraded expert opinion’ is used when and meta‐analyses was assessed using AMSTAR‐2 (A Mea- evidence is insufficient or uncertain, but a statement is still SurementTooltoAssessSystematicReviews2),whichevaluates needed to guide practice, reflecting the panel's collective methodologicalrigourandtransparencyacrossseveraldomains. judgementratherthanstrongdata. The quality of diagnostic accuracy studies was assessed using QUADAS‐2 (Quality Appraisal Tool for Diagnostic Accuracy Toenhancemethodologicalrobustnessandtransparency,three Studies), which evaluates study design, risk of bias, and meth- expert statisticians with experience in systematic reviews and odologicalsoundness(SupportingInformationS1). GRADE appraisal were involved in critically reviewing the certaintyratings andrefiningtheEtDtables. The evidence‐to‐decision tables are presented in Supporting 3.5 | Grading of Evidence and Recommendations InformationS2. TheseguidelinesweredevelopedfollowingtheGradingofRec- ommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation 3.6 | Integration of the Delphi Method (GRADE) methodology ( toensureatransparent,systematic,andevidence‐basedapproach To strengthen the consensus process, the Delphi method was toformulatingrecommendationsforthemanagementofcoeliac employed alongside the GRADE approach . The Delphi disease. The GRADE method was consistently applied to processincludedaseriesofonlinemeetingsandonein‐person assess both the certainty of evidence and the strength of meetingduringthe20thInternationalCeDSymposium(ICDS) recommendations. inSheffield,UK,inSeptember 2024,asfollows: For each PICO question, summary of findings tables were Round 1: Experts independently formulated PICO questions studies assessed for each outcome of interest, as well as the providingjustifications. certainty of evidence (Supporting Information S1). In accor- dance with the GRADE methodology, studies on diagnostic Rounds2and3:Resultsfromthefirstroundweresummarized accuracy stated at a high level of certainty when diagnostic and shared with participants in online meetings. Participants accuracy was the outcome of interest, as they directly assessed refinedtheirresponsesbasedoncollectivefeedback. 1862 UnitedEuropeanGastroenterologyJournal,2025 Round 4 (In‐person meeting, ICDS 2024): Key topics were dis-
