United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: ced, anti, gluten, diagnosis, diagnostic, iga, evidence, disease, hla, patients, coeliac, low, strong, studies, marsh


shared with participants in online meetings. Participants accuracy was the outcome of interest, as they directly assessed refinedtheirresponsesbasedoncollectivefeedback. 1862 UnitedEuropeanGastroenterologyJournal,2025 Round 4 (In‐person meeting, ICDS 2024): Key topics were dis- Clinicians mustmake decisions basedon theclinical presenta- cussed,including:Theno‐biopsyapproachforCeDdiagnosisin tionofeachindividualpatient,takinginconsiderationpatients adults, and management strategies for follow‐up and non‐ preferencesinashared‐decisionmanner. responsive CeD. This round was followed by writing the first draftofthemanuscript. These guidelines may not include all appropriate methods of care for the clinical scenarios described. As science advances Subsequent Review: Representatives of AOECS (Association of and new evidence become available, recommendations may European Coeliac Societies) reviewed the manuscript and pro- becomeoutdated. Followingtheseguidelinescannotguarantee vided insights from the perspective of patient organizations successfuloutcomes. regardingCeDmanagement. Rounds 5 and Beyond: Online voting and additional meetings 3.11 | Plan for Updating the Guidelines wereconductedtorefinetherecommendations.Furtherseveral onlinevotingroundswerehelduntilconsensuswasreachedon thecriticalrecommendations. The ESsCD governing Board decided to update the guidelines after a term of 5 years; however, an earlier update may be considered when there are developments that significantly in- fluencethediagnosisandmanagementofCeD. 3.7 | Handling of Disagreements Disagreements in the recommendation‐making process were 4 | Clinical and Epidemiological Aspects resolved through structured Delphi rounds, ensuring that all expert opinions were systematically considered. To handle 4.1 | Clinical Aspects disagreements, the working group established a predefined threshold(80%agreement)forfinalrecommendations.Incasesof Gluten consumption is associated with various medical condi- persistentdisagreementitwasagreed,thatacoresteeringcom- tions, known collectively as gluten‐related disorders. The most mittee, including representatives from ESsCD, was responsible important of these is Coeliac Disease (CeD), an inflammatory for reviewing unresolved issues and providing final decision disorderingeneticallypredisposedpersonstriggeredbyanim- basedonthebalanceofevidenceandexpertopinion.However, muneresponsetogluten,proteinspresentinwheat,barley,and thisstepwasnotrequired,asconsensuswasreachedthroughthe rye.CeDisachronicsmall‐bowelenteropathyinwhichspecific Delphiprocess. antibodiesaresystemicallydetectable. Theotherdisorderswithinthisspectrumare: 3.8 | Voting and Formulating Recommendations 1. Dermatitisherpetiformis(DH):DHisthespecificcutaneous The questions and recommendations were uploaded to the manifestation of CeD. Both diseases occur in gluten‐ Delphi platform for voting. The panel members were asked to sensitive individuals, share the same HLA haplotypes vote on all the recommendations and statements selecting one and improve following a GFD . Histological changes of the following options (Agree strongly; Agree with minor similar to CeD enteropathy have been reported in 75% of reservation; Agree with major reservation; Disagree with major patientswithDH,andtheremaininghaveminorchanges reservation; Disagree with minor reservation; Disagree strongly) consistent with possible latent CeD . Minor GI com- and then to provide any comments on the questions and plaints are the most common findings in DH. Signs of recommendation.Questionswithlessthan80%agreementwere malabsorptionarerare. discussedinasubsequentonlinemeeting,followedbyasecond The diagnosis of DH is confirmed by direct immunofluores- roundofvoting. cence (DIF)examination of perilesionalskinshowinggranular IgA deposits in the papillary dermis and positive anti‐tissue
