United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: ced, anti, gluten, diagnosis, diagnostic, iga, evidence, disease, hla, patients, coeliac, low, strong, studies, marsh


as Hashimoto's thyroiditis and Graves' deficit/hyperactivitydisorder,autismandsleepdisturbances[16, disease),Downsyndrome,andarangeofotherautoimmuneor 17].AnxietydisordersareusuallyreactiveinpatientswithCeD genetic syndromes, including autoimmune hepatitis, Addison's andimprove with aGFD. Depressivedisturbances may signifi- disease, selective IgA deficiency, Turner syndrome, and Wil- cantly impair QoL and are a good predictor of lack of dietary liams syndrome. The coexistence of these conditions un- compliance.AprolongedGFDmightimprovesomepatients. derscorestheneedfortargetedscreeninginat‐riskpopulations . 3. Non‐coeliac wheat sensitivity (NCWS): A condition char- acterizedbyirritablebowelsyndrome(IBS)‐likesymptoms and extra‐intestinal manifestations, occurring after inges- tion of gluten‐containing food, improving rapidly with 4.2.2 | WhatIsthe GeneticBackgroundofCeD? gluten withdrawal and relapsing soon after gluten chal- lenge. Pre‐requisite for suspecting NCWS is the exclusion Summaryofevidence:Thespecificroleofthehumanleucocyte of CeD, wheat allergy and major GI disorders when the antigen(HLA)‐DQA1andHLA‐DQB1genesinthepresentation patientisstillonagluten‐containingdiet. of gluten peptides as antigens makes the MHC‐HLA locus the most important genetic factor in CeD [26–28]. The majority (90%–95%) of patients with CeD carry HLA‐DQ2.5 hetero- 4.2 | Epidemiological Aspects dimers, encodedby DQA1*05and DQB1*02alleles,which may be inherited together on the same chromosome (cis configura- 4.2.1 | WhatIsthe PrevalenceofCoeliacDisease? tion) or separately on two homologous chromosomes (trans configuration) . The remaining 5%–10% carry either Summary of evidence: The global prevalence of CeD has HLA‐DQ8heterodimersencodedbyDQA1*03andDQB1*03:02 increased significantly over the past five to 6 decades, yet a or they carry HLA‐DQ2.2 encoded by DQA1*02:01 and substantialproportionofcasesremainundiagnosed.While DQB1*02.Rarepatients(<1%)notcarryingtheseheterodimers the overall occurrence is similar between males and females, carry DQA1*05 often as part of the HLA‐DQ7.5 heterodimers diagnosis remains more frequent in females, with reported . female‐to‐maleratiosrangingfrom2:1to1.5:1. Homozygous HLA‐DQ2.5 carries the highest CeD risk, up to In western countries, the prevalence is around 0.7% histologi- 30%,versus3%riskinothergenotypes,andisassociatedwitha cally‐confirmed and 1%–1.6% in serological screening of the moreclassicalpresentationandcomplicatedCeD. general population . A comprehensive European sys- tematicreviewestimatedthehistology‐basedprevalenceofpre- The presence of HLA risk alleles is a necessary, but not a suf- viouslyundiagnosedCeDtorangefrom0.10%to3.03%(median: ficient,factorforthedevelopmentofCeD. 1864 UnitedEuropeanGastroenterologyJournal,2025 HLAgenesaloneconferapproximately35%–40%ofthegenetic organs,includingthegastrointestinaltract.OneemergingirAE risk,emphasizingthesignificantroleofahugenumberofnon‐ is ICI‐associatedsmall‐bowel involvement which includesCeD HLAgenesintheimmunepathogenesisofCeD. (ICI‐CeD), a condition that mimics classical CeD but arises in patients undergoing treatment with ICIs, non‐CeD villous at- rophy,andulcerativejejunitis. 4.3 | What Are the Environmental Factors That Play a Role in Development of CeD? Active case‐finding through serological testing in high‐risk groupshasimprovedthedetectionanddiagnosisofCeD,poten- Summary of evidence: Gluten exposure is essential for the tiallyprovidingafavourablecost‐benefitratio.Inamass development of CeD. Upon ingestion, gluten peptides resist screening of 4438children, 40.2% had a genetic predisposition, complete digestion in the gastrointestinal tract, leading to the and60%ofCeDcaseswerepreviouslyundiagnosed. formation of immunogenic peptides. These fragments are pre- sented in an HLA‐DQ2 or HLA‐DQ8‐dependent manner to The reported risk of conditions associated with CeD varies gliadin‐specific T‐cells, that then trigger an
