United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: ced, anti, gluten, diagnosis, diagnostic, iga, evidence, disease, hla, patients, coeliac, low, strong, studies, marsh


‐ EMA testing mayprovideaddedvalueandhelpavoidunnecessaryduodenal biopsies. 5.1.3 | Histopathology 5.1.2.6 | Q.II.6. How to Test for Coeliac Disease in 5.1.3.1 | Q.III.1. What Is the Recommended Number Patients With Total IgA Deficiency? Recommendations: and Location of Duodenal Biopsies for CeD Diagnosis? InpatientswithconfirmedtotalIgAdeficiency,coeliacdisease Recommendation: For the diagnosis of CeD, it is recom- serology should be performed using IgG‐based assays, such as mendedtotakeatleastfourbiopsiesfromthedistalduodenum, IgG anti‐TG2 or IgG anti‐DGP antibodies. Due to the lower plustwofromtheduodenalbulb. sensitivity of these tests, a negative IgG result does not exclude the diagnosis. In individuals with signs of CoE:moderate;GR:strong;Agreement:100% malabsorption suggestive of CeD, upper GI endoscopy with duodenal biopsies should be undertaken regardless of IgG Summary of evidence: When CeD is suspected, duodenal bi- serologyresults. opsiesshouldbetakenevenwhentheendoscopicappearanceof duodenalmucosaisgrosslynormal.Itisgenerallybelievedthat CoE:low;GR:strong;Agreement:100% in CeD, mucosal lesions may have a patchy distribution [102– 104]. For this reason different studies concluded that multiple Summary of evidence: TotalIgA deficiencyis defined by serum biopsiesareneededaminimumoffourbiopsiesfromthedistal IgAlevels<7mg/dL.WhileIgAdeficiencyisregardedaspartial duodenumand1–2fromtheduodenal bulbareneeded. whenserumIgAlevelsare>7mg/dL,butbelowthelowerlimit of the normal range according to the age . IgA deficiency The inclusion of duodenal bulb biopsies may improve the affects2%–3% of patients withCeD, whereas paediatric studies detection of early or localised involvement (ultrashort CeD) report a prevalence of CeD as high as 10% among individuals . A meta‐analysis showed that the pooled rate of in- withselectiveIgAdeficiency. crease in diagnostic yield with bulb biopsy was 6.9% . To achieve optimal orientation of biopsy samples for histological ThepresenceofIgAdeficiencyleadstofalsenegatives onIgA‐ examination, single‐bite biopsy forceps are recommended dur- based serology tests . Therefore, total IgA levels should be ing endoscopy procedures. Subsequently, in pathology units, measured concurrently with CeD serology. For serological biopsy samples should be processed individually rather than testing of CeD in patients with IgA deficiency, IgG‐based tests combined in a single paraffin block. Bulb biopsies should be (such as IgG anti‐TG2 or IgG anti‐DGP) are required [67, 96, placed in a separate vial from thosetaken from the distalduo- 97]. Accuracy data for IgG‐based serological tests are limited, denum. Histologically, the duodenal bulb harbours Brunner's with sensitivity of IgG anti‐DGP assays varies between 74.4% glands resulting in a reduced villous height, which creates dif- and 86.0% at a cut‐off corresponding to a specificity of 98%. ficulty in interpretation. In addition, peptic duodenitis and the Specificityrangesfrom97.3%to99.3%.Therefore,toavoid potential presence of gastric metaplasia at the bulb make a suggestiveofcoeliacdisease,upperGIendoscopywithduodenal aretaken. biopsiesshouldbeundertakenregardlessofIgGserologyresults monitoring disease progression and assessing adherence to a Marsh‐III Stage in the Modified Marsh Classification gluten‐freediet,althoughtitresdeclinemoreslowlythanthose Add Clinically Relevant Information? Statement: The
