United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: ced, anti, gluten, diagnosis, diagnostic, iga, evidence, disease, hla, patients, coeliac, low, strong, studies, marsh


at the bulb make a suggestiveofcoeliacdisease,upperGIendoscopywithduodenal aretaken. biopsiesshouldbeundertakenregardlessofIgGserologyresults monitoring disease progression and assessing adherence to a Marsh‐III Stage in the Modified Marsh Classification gluten‐freediet,althoughtitresdeclinemoreslowlythanthose Add Clinically Relevant Information? Statement: The ofIgAserology. sub‐classifications (A, B, C) of the Marsh‐III stage in the 1868 UnitedEuropeanGastroenterologyJournal,2025 modifiedMarshclassificationdescribemucosaldamageinCeD Summaryofevidence:Well‐orientedduodenalbiopsiesenhance buthavelimitedclinicalrelevanceinroutinepractice.Theydo thesensitivityandspecificityofCeDdiagnosisbyallowingclear notsignificantlyinfluencetreatmentdecisionsoroutcomesbut assessment of villous atrophy, crypt hyperplasia, and IELs, mayhelpmonitorinflammatoryactivity. minimising diagnostic errors . Proper biopsy orientation is essential for reliable histological evaluation, CoE:low;GR:conditional;Agreement:95% especiallyinmildorearlyCeD. Summary of evidence: The Marsh classification was originally HE staining is generally adequate for most cases and is prac- developed to stage histological changes in coeliac disease and tical for routine use , but immunohistochemical (IHC) was later modified to subdivide stage III (villous atrophy) into staining, including formalin‐fixed staining such as CD3 and three subcategories: 3A (partial), 3B (subtotal), and 3C (total gamma delta, is more precise for identifying IELs in chal- villousatrophy).Thismodifiedsystemiswidelyused lenging or borderline cases . Both techniques play Marsh himself regarding its application and interpreta- texts . CD3 T cell staining for measuring IEL density on tion. formalin fixed biopsy samples is already used in routine, and today formalin fixed biopsies can also be used to stain the γδ‐ While the sub‐classifications (3A–3C) offer a more detailed positive IELs . routine practice is limited . Multiple studies suggest that these sub‐stages do not significantly influence treatment de- 5.1.3.4 | Q.III.4. Quality Control of Histological cisionsorlong‐termoutcomes.However,theymaybehelpfulin Assessment. What is the impact of interobserver variability selected contexts, such as monitoring disease activity and inthehistologicalinterpretationofduodenalbiopsiesforcoeliac mucosal healing, particularly in patients with severe enteropa- disease,andhowcandiagnosticagreementbeimproved? thy (e.g., Marsh 3C), who are at increased risk for incomplete histological recovery and may benefit from closer follow‐up Statement: There is substantial interobserver variability in the [112,114–117]. histological interpretation of duodenal biopsies for CeD, particularly in cases with mild or borderline mucosal changes Morphometric analysis has been proposed as a more objective (e.g., Marsh I–II). To enhance diagnostic accuracy and consis- method for assessing mucosal injury. This approach involves tency, histological assessment should be performed in quantitativeevaluationofthevillousheight‐to‐cryptdepth(Vh: conjunction with clinical and serological information. The use Cr) ratio and intraepithelial lymphocyte (IEL) density [118, of classification systems (the modified Marsh classification), 119].AVi:Crratiobelow2indicatesvillousatrophyandactive comprehensive pathology reporting, and adequate biopsy sam- disease, while treated patients with CeD typically have ratios pling are essential components of high‐quality diagnostic above 3. A threshold change of 0.4 in Vi:Cr or ≥ 30% in T‐cell practice. IELdensityisconsideredclinicallysignificant. CoE:low;GR:ungradedgoodpracticestatement;Agreement:95% Despite
