United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: ced, anti, gluten, diagnosis, diagnostic, iga, evidence, disease, hla, patients, coeliac, low, strong, studies, marsh


with CeD typically have ratios pling are essential components of high‐quality diagnostic above 3. A threshold change of 0.4 in Vi:Cr or ≥ 30% in T‐cell practice. IELdensityisconsideredclinicallysignificant. CoE:low;GR:ungradedgoodpracticestatement;Agreement:95% Despite its potential for objective histological assessment, morphometry faces challenges in clinical adoption due to Summary of evidence: Diagnosing CeD through duodenal bi- practical limitations, lack of standardisation, and insufficient opsies can be challenging, particularly due to variability in evidence of superiority over existing methods. One proposed interpretation between pathologists. Interobserver variation is approach to bridge this gap is the Q‐MARSH system, which influenced by several factors, including differences in histo- translates morphometric findings into qualitative Marsh‐like pathological classification systems (e.g., Marsh vs. modified categoriestoimproveclinicalutility. Marsh),lackofstandardizedcriteria,andtheabsenceofclinical context . Studies have shown that interobserver Importantly, both classification systems face limitations. The agreement ranges from moderate to poor, particularly in Marshstagingsystem, while widelyused,compresses a biolog- borderline or mild lesions (e.g., Marsh‐I and II stages). Varia- ical continuum of gluten‐induced mucosal injury into discrete tions between hospitals in biopsy evaluation can lead to histologic changes within a single category . Further TG2 levels may aid pathologists in unclear cases . Two research is needed to validate the added clinical value of both large studies demonstrated that adding serological data and inguidingpatient managementandprognosis. danceamongpathologists. 5.1.3.3 | Q.III.3. How Should Duodenal Biopsies Be To improve consistency and diagnostic quality, the following Processed for Optimal Evaluation in CeD Diagnosis? pointsneedtobe takeninconsideration: Statement: For optimal histopathological assessment in CeD, well‐orientedduodenalbiopsiesareessential.Haematoxylinand 1. Pathologists are encouraged to use standardised classifi- Eosin (H&E) staining is recommended for routine diagnostic cation (the modified Marsh classification) to maintain purposes. uniformity in histological lesion grading and facilitate clearer communication with clinicians and other CoE:moderate;GR:strong;Agreement:100% pathologists. UnitedEuropeanGastroenterologyJournal,2025 1869 2. Histological interpretation should be made in the context 5.1.4 | Confirmationofthe Diagnosisof CeDinAdults ofclinicalandserologicalinformationwheneverpossible. 5.1.4.1 | Q.IV.1.1. How Can the Diagnosis of CeD in 3. The pathology reports should explicitly detail key param- Adults Be Established? Recommendation: A positive CeD‐ eters such as the number of biopsies received, the quality specific serology in patients with Marsh‐II or Marsh‐III stage oforientation,Vi:Crratio,IELcount,andMarshstage. confirmsthediagnosisofCeD. 4. In cases of diagnostic uncertainty, especially when assessing mild or borderline changes, pathologists CoE:high;GR:strong;Agreement:100% are encouraged to obtain a second opinion to increase diagnostic confidence. Furthermore, the use of 5.1.4.2 | Q.IV.1.2 Can Diagnosis Be Made Solely on digital pathology platforms and artificial intelligence‐ Serology Without Histological Confirmation (The No‐ based tools is increasingly
