United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: ced, anti, gluten, diagnosis, diagnostic, iga, evidence, disease, hla, patients, coeliac, low, strong, studies, marsh


Requirements to Make a Diagnosis of NCWS?. Recom- 3. ExclusionofOtherGIDisorders: NCWSdiagnosisrequires mendation: NCWS may be considered in patients with repro- ruling out other GI disorders with similar symptoms. ducible gluten‐related intestinal and/or extra‐intestinal NCWS shares significant symptom overlap with IBS, complaints who have normal CeD serology and wheat allergy particularly IBS‐D (diarrhoea‐predominant), as both may (WA) tests while on a gluten‐containing diet and after the betriggeredbyFODMAPsinwheat. exclusion of major organic GI disorders. However, it is important to acknowledge the potential role of the nocebo 4. Reproducible Symptoms: NCWS diagnosis hinges on NCWS may be influenced by expectancy and actual gluten ingestion, as patients often report worsening of intestinal intake. (e.g., bloating, diarrhoea) and/or extra‐intestinal (e.g., fa- tigue, headache) symptoms after gluten or wheat con- CoE:moderate;GR:strong;Agreement:89% sumption. 1876 UnitedEuropeanGastroenterologyJournal,2025 FIGURE2 | SummarizestheapproachtodiagnosisofCeDinadultsusingglutenchallenge. A multi‐step approach is suggested to make the diagnosis of Despite considerable advances, particularly in our understand- NCWS,asshowninFigure3: ing of coeliac disease immunopathology, important knowledge gaps persist. These include challenges in diagnosing specific patientsubgroups,suchasthosewithseronegativedisease,IgA deficiency, or potential coeliac disease. Additional unresolved 6 | Conclusions, Limitations of These Guidelines issuesincludethevalidationofbiopsy‐freediagnosticthresholds and Future Perspectives acrossdiversepopulations,theclinicalsignificanceofMarshIII subclassifications, and the absence of reliable biomarkers to ThesePart1oftheupdatedESSCDguidelinesoncoeliacdisease distinguish coeliac disease from non‐coeliac enteropathies. provide evidence‐based statements and recommendations Further research is also needed to optimize gluten challenge focussedonkeyaspectsofdiagnosingcoeliacdiseaseinadults. protocols, better define the role of HLA‐DQ typing in risk Management aspects, including approaches to non‐responsive stratification, and improve diagnostic tools for conditions such coeliac disease and refractory coeliac disease, will be asnon‐coeliacwheatsensitivity. addressed in the upcoming Part 2 of the guidelines. Some rec- ommendationsinPart1aredesignatedgoodpracticestatements As the guideline development process and the appraisal of supports the proposed approach. The overarching aim is to research, particularly prospective diagnostic studies, to enhance the quality of care, increase awareness of this often strengthen the foundation for future recommendations. Key under‐recognised condition, and ultimately improve outcomes priorities include refining biopsy‐free diagnostic approaches, forpatientswithcoeliacdisease. identifying biomarkers that differentiate patients at higher risk UnitedEuropeanGastroenterologyJournal,2025 1877 FIGURE3 | ApproachtomakethediagnosisofNCWS.CeD,Coeliacdisease;FODMAP,Fermentableoligodi‐mono‐saccharidesandpolyols;IBS, Irritablebowelsyndrome;NCWS,Non‐CoeliacWheatSensitivity;WA,Wheatallergy. for complications from those likely to follow a benign course, CeD, AI‐assisted endoscopic techniques, and the long‐term and validating tools omitting the need for longer gluten expo- outcomesofpatientsdiagnosedwithoutbiopsyconfirmation. sures but also non‐invasive screening tools such as optimized point‐of‐caretests.Sucheffortswillbeessentialforenablingrisk stratification, guiding individualised care, and optimizing the allocationofhealthcareresources. AuthorContributions TheESsCDboard(A.A.,A.P.,L.E.,C.G.,N.T.,R.A.,K.L.,L.M.S.,M.S.) Bridging these knowledge gaps will require sustained invest- organisedtheworkinggroupsanddesignedthepreliminarylistoftopics ensure future guidelines are grounded in robust and clinically theevidenceandappliedtheGRADEapproach.Allauthors(A.A.,F.Z., meaningful evidence. At the same time,
