87-year-old with chest pain
KEYWORDS: ecg, troponin, patient, pain, omi, baseline, chest, lead, prehospital, chest pain, prehospital ecg, leads, model, case, used


This prehospital ECG was obtained from an elderly male with new onset chest pain. The pain was substernal 7/10, crushing in nature and radiating to the neck. He had a medical history significant for type II DM treated with insulin, DVT and abdominal surgery. How would you assess this ECG? Prehospital ECG (ECG #1) Interpretation: The ECG shows sinus rhythm with a heart rate of approximately 50 beats per minute. The QRS duration is 110 ms, and in lead I the QRS morphology, along with absent significant R waves in V1–V2, is consistent with incomplete left bundle branch block. There is minimal J-point elevation noted in the anterolateral and high-lateral leads. T waves in leads V3–V6 are notably hyperacute, with the most pronounced T wave changes seen in lead V5. These subtle ECG changes were not noticed or commented on by providers. The patient arrived in the emergency department with ongoing chest pain unresponsive to morphine and nitroglycerin. Initial high-sensitivity troponin I was mildly elevated at 35 ng/L (reference <34 ng/L). A repeat troponin I, drawn 3 hours later, showed a marked increase to 592 ng/L. The subsequent ECG was recorded after this second troponin result, though it is unclear if chest pain persisted at that time. Repeat ECG done in the ED (ECG #2) This ECG has some baseline wander, but essentially it shows the same findings as the initial one, strongly suggesting the patient likely remained symptomatic at the time this ECG was recorded. There are no clear signs of reperfusion. Despite the rising troponin levels (and probable ongoing chest pain), the patient was not taken to the catheterization lab but was admitted to the hospital instead. Troponin I levels increased to 23,076 ng/L overnight, and rose further to 35,906 ng/L in the morning. Both ECGs in this case independently meet criteria for diagnosing occlusion myocardial infarction (OMI). Additionally, comparison with a previous baseline ECG, which was available for this patient, makes the changes even more evident. In the image below, selected leads from the prehospital ECG are compared with baseline. The change from prior can only be caused by ischemia. Notice the concordant T wave in lead I, and the hyperacute T waves in leads V5 and V6 in the prehospital ECG when compared to baseline. The Queen of Hearts was not used in the patient management in this case. Had this AI model been used, she
