87-year-old with chest pain
KEYWORDS: ecg, troponin, patient, pain, omi, baseline, chest, lead, prehospital, chest pain, prehospital ecg, leads, model, case, used


V6 in the prehospital ECG when compared to baseline. The Queen of Hearts was not used in the patient management in this case. Had this AI model been used, she would have identified the occlusion myocardial infarction. See the below image for the QoH interpretation with explainability map for the initial ECG in today’s case. QoH with explainability for ECG #1 As you can see, the AI model highlights subtle concordant ST segment convexity in lead I, as well as hyperacute, prominent T waves in the lateral chest leads. Additionally, there is an inappropriately isoelectric ST segment in lead III, where one would typically expect slight ST elevation given the marked S wave. Collectively, these features are diagnostic for occlusion myocardial infarction (OMI). How certain can you be that this ECG represents OMI? I was sent this ECG by my colleague Dr. Vinje without clinical information. My response was, “OMI until proven otherwise.” The Queen of Hearts AI model classified this ECG as a STEMI-equivalent (OMI), outputting a value of 0.981 for active OMI, corresponding to approximately 99–99.5% specificity. Discussion This 87-year-old man was ultimately referred for coronary angiography. During the procedure, a 100% occlusion of the first diagonal branch (D1) was identified and successfully stented. The rest of the coronary arteries showed only mild atheromatosis without significant obstructive lesions. The angiogram took place more than 24 hours after symptom onset. Opening a coronary artery that has been fully occluded for more than 24 hours provides little prognostic benefit. Learning points When you have a diagnostic ECG, do not wait for troponin. A patient with rising troponin and ongoing refractory chest pain needs to go to the cath lab. Comparison to a baseline ECG should be done when available. Subtle ECG changes are often diagnostic.
