Mathematical modelling of antibiotic
KEYWORDS: cid, cid cid, bacteria, antibiotics, wildtype, mutant, peerj, resistance, antibiotic, max, mutant bacteria, wildtype bacteria, interaction, antagonistic, rate


combinations may be used for increased potency. However, in vitro studies have explored various combination therapies to minimize the development of resistance. Both empirical (Chait, Craney & Kishony, 2007; Hegreness et al., 2008; Michel et al., 2008; Torella et al., 2010; Pena-Miller etal.,2013)andmodeling(Torellaetal.,2010;Techitnutsarut&Chamchod,2021;Volkova et al., 2012; Campbell & Chao, 2014; Arya et al., 2021) studies have investigated how the evolution of antibiotic resistance is influenced by the synergistic and antagonistic interactions of antibiotics in the context of combination therapy. Severalstudieshavedemonstratedthattheuseofantagonisticallyinteractingantibiotics in treating wildtype bacteria results in a slower development of resistance compared to synergistic antibiotics (Hegreness et al., 2008; Chait, Craney & Kishony, 2007; Yeh et al., 2009; Torella et al., 2010). Another study revealed that wildtype bacteria treated with synergistic drugs eventually developed resistance, leading to a switch from synergistic to antagonistic interaction . Consequently, resistance acquisition appearstoacceleratewhendrugsactantagonisticallyonmutantsanddeceleratewhenthey interact antagonistically on wildtype bacteria. However, it remains unclear whether the beneficialeffectofantagonisticinteractioninwildtypebacteriaoutweighsthedetrimental impact on mutants. Thus, this study aims to elucidate the significance of antagonistic interactions between antibiotics in relation to mutant and wildtype bacteria, focusing on the deceleration of antimicrobial resistance. This study aims to fill the existing research gap by formulating and analyzing a mathematical model that describes the population dynamics of wildtype and mutant Nashebietal.(2024),PeerJ,DOI10.7717/peerj.16917 3/22 bacteria under different antibiotic combinations. The synergism or antagonism of the combinationistheotherindependentparameterofourmodel.Specifically,weinvestigate the growth rate of mutants that acquire resistance to two selected antibiotics, which interacts synergistically or antagonistically (for the wildtype or the mutant). To simplify theanalyses,wehavechosentoworkwithtwoantibiotics.Thenoveltyofthisworkliesin ourabilitytoanalyticallyexploretherelationshipbetweenantibioticinteractionsforboth wildtypeandmutantbacteriainthecontextofantibioticresistance.Moreover,ourmodel provides an explicit equation for the growth rate of mutants as a function of antibiotic interaction levels, spanning from antagonism to synergism. MODEL AND METHODS Model formulation Portionsofthistextwerepreviouslypublishedaspartofapreprint(Nashebi,Sari&Kotil, 2022).Inourstudy,wefocusonmodelingthescenarioofmultidrugtreatmentagainstthe Staphylococcus aureus bacteria in an individual. The population sizes of wildtype and mutant bacteria at time t are denoted as S(t) and R(t), respectively. We assume that bacterial growth follows a logistic model with a carrying capacity K. The birth rate of wildtypebacteriaisrepresentedbyβ,andthebirthrateofmutantbacteriaisdenotedasβ. s r It is important to note that specific mutations that confer resistance to chemical control incur a fitness cost, which can result in reduced reproductive capacity or competitive ability (Alavez-Ramírez et al., 2007). We quantify this fitness cost as a reduction in the reproduction rate of the mutant strain, leading to β ≤ β. The natural death rates for r s wildtypeandmutantbacteriaarerepresentedasµ andµ,respectively.Additionally,both s r bacterial typescanalsodieduetotheactionof antibiotics.Inthisstudy,weconsidertwo typesofantibiotics:(1)antibioticagentM,whichkillsbothwildtypeandmutantbacteria, (2)antibioticagentN,whichalsokillsbothwildtypeandmutantbacteria.TheantibioticM kills wildtype and mutant bacteria with rates a and
