Mathematical modelling of antibiotic
KEYWORDS: cid, cid cid, bacteria, antibiotics, wildtype, mutant, peerj, resistance, antibiotic, max, mutant bacteria, wildtype bacteria, interaction, antagonistic, rate


leading to β ≤ β. The natural death rates for r s wildtypeandmutantbacteriaarerepresentedasµ andµ,respectively.Additionally,both s r bacterial typescanalsodieduetotheactionof antibiotics.Inthisstudy,weconsidertwo typesofantibiotics:(1)antibioticagentM,whichkillsbothwildtypeandmutantbacteria, (2)antibioticagentN,whichalsokillsbothwildtypeandmutantbacteria.TheantibioticM kills wildtype and mutant bacteria with rates a and a , while the antibiotic N affects 11 21 them with rates a and a , respectively. Moreover, these antibiotics interact 12 22 synergisticallyandantagonisticallytokillwildtypeandmutantbacteria.Toaccountforthe combined effect of antibiotics M and N in killing both wildtype and mutant bacteria, we adopt a density-dependent approach based on the work of Ibargüen-Mondragón et al. (2014). This allows us to explore the relationship between the pharmacodynamics of the antibioticsandthepopulationdynamicsofwildtypeandmutantbacteriawhenexposedto these antibiotics. The model is described as follows: X ¼ ða C þa C þk a a C C Þ (1a) s 11 1 12 2 1 11 12 1 2 X ¼ ða C þa C þk a a C C Þ (1b) r 21 1 22 2 2 21 22 1 2 where EM;S a ¼ max (2a) 11 ICM;S Nashebietal.(2024),PeerJ,DOI10.7717/peerj.16917 4/22 EN;S a ¼ max (2b) 12 ICN;S and EM;R a ¼ max (3a) 21 ICM;R EN;R a ¼ max (3b) 22 ICN;R where, EM,S and EN,S represent the maximal killing rates of antibiotics M and N of max max wildtypebacteria,EM,R andEN,R representthemaximalkillingratesofantibioticsM max max and N of mutant bacteria. ICM,S and ICN,S signify the half-maximal inhibitory 50 50 concentrationoftheantibioticsM andNforwildtypebacteria.ICM,S andICN,S denote 50 50 thehalf-maximalinhibitoryconcentrationoftheantibioticsMandNformutantbacteria. MultiplicationofEqs.(2a),(2b)and(3a),(3b)giveEmaxmodel(Salahudeen &Nishtala, 2017; Holford, 2017) which quantify the relationship between concentration and effect of antibiotics. The parameters λ and λ represent the interaction strengths for wildtype and mutant 1 2 bacteria, respectively. These parameters have a range of −1.5 to 1.5 (−1.5 ≤ λ , λ ≤ 1.5) 1 2 . Negative values indicate antagonistic interactions between the antibiotics, while positive values indicate synergistic interactions. Bacteria have the potential to acquire resistance to both antibiotic agents through mutation. The concentrations of antibiotics M and N are denoted as C (t) and C (t), 1 2 respectively. We assume that these two antibiotics belong to the same class and have the same inhibitory effect. Furthermore, we assume that both antibiotics bind to the same target,allowingbacteriatodevelopresistancetobothantibioticsthroughasinglemutation event.Theacquisitionofresistancebymutantbacteriafromwildtypebacteriaismodeled by the terms q C (t)S(t) and q C (t)S(t), where q and q represent the mutation rates of 1 1 2 2 1 2 wildtype bacteria when exposed to antibiotics, respectively. To maintain a constant concentration of antibiotics M and N, they are supplied at a constantrateθ andθ ,respectively.Antibioticsareremovedfromthesystemataconstant 1
