Mathematical modelling of antibiotic
KEYWORDS: cid, cid cid, bacteria, antibiotics, wildtype, mutant, peerj, resistance, antibiotic, max, mutant bacteria, wildtype bacteria, interaction, antagonistic, rate


mutantstrains.Inthisdirection,adeterministicmodelhasbeendevelopedtoachievethe goal. The effective reproduction number, the growth rate of resistant strains, and antibiotic-antibiotic interaction have been demonstrated analytically. Moreover, the condition for free-bacteria, all mutant-bacteria, and coexistence equilibrium points have been determined. The theoretical findings have been successfully supported by numerical analysis. The main findings of this work are as follows: (cid:5) Wehaveclarifiedthatantagonismagainstthewildtypebacteriahasamorecriticalrole than synergistic in slowing the growth rate of mutant bacteria. In contrast, the antagonistic interaction in the mutant type speeds up evolution but minimally. (cid:5) Our analytical results suggest that it would be more appropriate to develop combine therapystrategyagainstwildtypebacteriaasopposedtomutantbacteriainordertoslow down the acquisition of antibiotic resistance rather than stop the development of resistantstrains.Ithasbeenrevealedthatthebestmultidrugtherapythatcanstandthe test of time must include highly effective antibiotics that interact antagonistically with wildtype bacteria, if possible, interact synergistically with the mutant bacteria. The potential impact of our finding is that this kind of therapy slow down the acquisition of resistance. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND DECLARATIONS Funding This work was funded by TUBITAK, 2232—International Fellowship for Outstanding Researchers, Project number 118C244. The funders had no role in study design, data collection and analysis, decision to publish, or preparation of the manuscript. Grant Disclosures The following grant information was disclosed by the authors: TUBITAK: 2232. International Fellowship for Outstanding Researchers: 118C244. Competing Interests The authors declare that they have no competing interests. Nashebietal.(2024),PeerJ,DOI10.7717/peerj.16917 17/22 Author Contributions (cid:5) Ramin Nashebi conceived and designed the experiments, performed the experiments, analyzed the data, prepared figures and/or tables, authored or reviewed drafts of the article, and approved the final draft. (cid:5) Murat Sari analyzed the data, authored or reviewed drafts of the article, and approved the final draft. (cid:5) Seyfullah Enes Kotil conceived and designed the experiments, performed the experiments, analyzed the data, prepared figures and/or tables, authored or reviewed drafts of the article, and approved the final draft. Data Availability The following information was supplied regarding data availability: The datasets are available at GitHub and Zenodo: - Evolution-of-Antibiotic-Resistance.git. - Ramin Nashebi, Murat Sari, & Seyfullah Kotil. (2023). Mathematical Modelling of antibiotic Interaction on Evolution of Antibiotic Resistance: An Analytical Approach. Zenodo. Supplemental Information Supplementalinformationforthisarticlecanbefoundonlineat peerj.16917#supplemental-information.
