BMC Neuroscience
KEYWORDS: cells, taste, cell, brush, brush cells, epithelium, pbs, figure, sensory, rat, antibody, receptor, mouse, tract, gastrointestinal


'thermo-TRPs' sequence homology, members of the family fall into six (TRPV1-TRPV4, TRPA1 and TRPM8), have been found to (page number not for citation purposes) BMC Neuroscience 2007, 8:49 be highly temperature dependent and are directly unknown whether TRPM5 is associated with T1R/T2R and involved in heat and cold sensation in the peripheral Gα as one functional unit due to sub-cellular compart- gust nervous system . Several TRP channels are mechano- mentalization, or whether TRPM5 represents an inde- sensitive or activated by hypotonic challenge (TRPV4, pendent signaling component localized in distinct and TRPA1, TRPM3, PKD1 and TRPP2) . TRPC2 is specifi- specialized subcellular compartments of TRC. cally expressed in the rodent sensory epithelium of the vomeronasal organ (VNO) where it plays a critical role in It is assumed that the gastrointestinal and the respiratory signaling processes triggered by pheromones . More tracts have the ability to analyze the composition of their recently, evidence was obtained for a critical role of TRP luminal content in order to adequately respond to toxins channels in taste perception. Thus, PKD2L1 (TRPP2) and and irritants. Thus, signaling molecules enriched in TRC PKD1L3 are co-expressed in a subset of taste receptor cells have also been identified in populations of solitary epi- (TRC) which are responsible for the detection of sour thelial cells in organs other than taste buds. For example, tastants . TRPM5 was found to be essential for sweet, Gα was found in brush cells of the gastrointestinal tract gust bitter and umami taste perception. TRPM5 is immunolo- and in pancreatic duct cells . Bitter taste receptors, calized in a subset of TRC, and two independently T2Rs, Gα , PLCβ2 and the IP III receptor were immu- gust 3 generated TRPM5 knock-out mouse models display nolocalized in solitary chemosensory cells (SCC) in the diminished sweet, bitter and umami perception . larynx and respiratory epithelium [25-28]. Gα was gust Interestingly, the sensitivity of TRPM5 to temperature was found to be expressed in L type enteroendocrine cells in suggested to be the molecular mechanism underlying the the human colon . These observations support the psychophysical phenomenon of "thermal taste", i.e. notion that a population of specialized epithelial cells is enhanced sweetness perception with increasing tempera- present in different organs and may constitute part of a ture . Studies of the biophysical properties of TRPM5 diffuse chemosensory system . At present, com- in heterologous expression systems by us and
