BMC Neuroscience
KEYWORDS: cells, taste, cell, brush, brush cells, epithelium, pbs, figure, sensory, rat, antibody, receptor, mouse, tract, gastrointestinal


organs and may constitute part of a ture . Studies of the biophysical properties of TRPM5 diffuse chemosensory system . At present, com- in heterologous expression systems by us and other mon functional, morphological and biochemical criteria groups revealed a monovalent-selective cation channel, defining this putative cell system or these systems are not directly gated by intracellular calcium, which rises upon available and are the subject of intensive investigation. stimulation of guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory protein (G protein)-coupled receptors (GPCR) linked to Here we report that TRPM5 is highly abundant in rodent phospholipases type C (PLC). Furthermore, TRPM5 is reg- chemosensory organs including taste buds, the olfactory ulated by voltage and phosphatidylinositol bisphosphate epithelium and the VNO, as well as in a subset of solitary (PIP ) [10,12-14]. TRPM4, the closest homologue of cells distributed throughout the epithelia of the respira- TRPM5, displays a similar activation mechanism and tory system and the gastrointestinal tract. The latter cells channel properties . TRPM4 and TRPM5 have been display morphological and biochemical cell features of proposed as molecular candidates for calcium-activated brush cells (also known as tuft, fibrillovesicular, multive- nonselective (CAN) cation channels observed in many sicular or caveolated cells). Collectively, our data suggest excitable and non-excitable cells . CAN channels are that TRPM5 expression defines a population of special- assumed to be involved in membrane depolarization and, ized chemosensory cells and, thus, may offer a new point consequently, in the regulation of the intracellular cal- of entry to dissect molecular mechanisms involved in the cium concentration. processing of environmental cues by the respiratory sys- tem and the gastrointestinal tract. Mechanistically, however, the role of TRPM5 in TRC is poorly understood. Taste buds consist of four different Results cell types (I-IV). Type II taste receptor cells are assumed to Localization of TRPM5 on the basolateral surface of taste be directly involved in sweet, bitter and umami percep- receptor cells tion . Taste compounds stimulate GPCRs for sweet To elucidate a biological role of TRPM5 we set out to study and amino acids (T1R) and bitter (T2R) its expression pattern in rodent tissues using an immuno- resulting in activation of the G-protein gustuducin histochemical approach. To this end, we generated a pol- (Gα ). Consequently, calcium is released from internal yclonal anti-TRPM5 antibody (AB-321) and tested its gust stores via activation of PLCβ2 and subsequent inositol- specificity in HEK 293 cells transiently transfected with 1,4,5-trisphosphate
