BMC Neuroscience
KEYWORDS: cells, taste, cell, brush, brush cells, epithelium, pbs, figure, sensory, rat, antibody, receptor, mouse, tract, gastrointestinal


calcium is released from internal yclonal anti-TRPM5 antibody (AB-321) and tested its gust stores via activation of PLCβ2 and subsequent inositol- specificity in HEK 293 cells transiently transfected with 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP ) binding to IP receptor type III the cDNA of mouse TRPM5. In Western blots of whole- 3 3 (IP RIII). Elevated calcium levels activate TRPM5 leading cell lysates obtained from HEK 293 cells expressing either to depolarization of the plasma membrane due to influx TRPM5 or YFP-TRPM5, the anti-TRPM5 antibody detected of Na+. The molecular events following TRPM5 activation protein bands of expected sizes (~130 kDa and ~160 kDa, are still under debate. Recently, gap junction hemichan- respectively) (Figure 1A). The immunoreactivity was abol- nels were proposed to be involved downstream of TRPM5 ished by preincubation of the antibody with the corre- activation in taste signal transduction . It is also sponding immunization peptide. Next, we tested the AB- (page number not for citation purposes) BMC Neuroscience 2007, 8:49 321 antibody by indirect immunofluorescence staining of present in solitary immunoreactive cells scattered HEK 293 cells (Figure 1B). In contrast to untransfected throughout the luminal part of the epithelium (Figure cells, TRPM5-expressing cells displayed a fluorescent sig- 2G,H). Thus, our data suggest that TRPM5 might play an nal, which could be completely blocked by the corre- as yet unappreciated physiological role in olfaction of sponding immunization peptide. Of note, the subcellular odorants and pheromones. distribution of TRPM5 immunoreactivity was similar to that observed by imaging of living HEK 293 cells express- TRPM5 is enriched in brush cells of the respiratory system ing TRPM5 fused to a YFP tag (data not shown). To sum- By means of RT-PCR and Northern blot analysis, TRPM5 marize, two independent approaches showed that the expression has been demonstrated in many tissues generated antibody AB-321 specifically recognized the . Therefore, we systematically searched rodent mouse TRPM5 protein. organs for TRPM5 protein expression by immunohisto- chemistry. TRPM5 could not be detected in liver, pan- To test whether the TRPM5-specific antibody AB-321 is creas, kidney, spleen, lymph nodes, vessels, salivary suitable for the detection of TRPM5 in rodent tissues we glands, ovary, blood cells, fat cells, skeletal and smooth performed immunohistochemistry of paraffin sections of muscle (data not shown). We did, however, observe valate papillae (Figure 1C,D,E). In line with recent reports TRPM5 immunoreactive cells in the respiratory system , AB-321 elicited a strong immunofluorescent signal (Figure
