BMC Neuroscience
KEYWORDS: cells, taste, cell, brush, brush cells, epithelium, pbs, figure, sensory, rat, antibody, receptor, mouse, tract, gastrointestinal


not shown). We did, however, observe valate papillae (Figure 1C,D,E). In line with recent reports TRPM5 immunoreactive cells in the respiratory system , AB-321 elicited a strong immunofluorescent signal (Figure 3) as well as in the gastrointestinal tract (Figures 4, in a subpopulation of TRCs in taste buds, while the sur- 5). rounding tongue tissue was negative for TRPM5. TRPM5 immunoreactivity was blocked by the corresponding In the respiratory system, TRPM5 expression was restricted immunization peptide (Figure 1F). Notably, we only to solitary epithelial cells of the nose, trachea and bron- detected a TRPM5 immunofluorescent signal at the baso- chus (Figure 3A–C). Occasionally, in some regions of the lateral membrane of some TRC. In order to confirm this tracheal epithelium TRPM5-expressing cells appeared in observation, we performed co-localization studies of clusters (Figure 3D–F). Remarkably, the apical surface of TRPM5 and the lectin Ulex Europaeus Agglutinin (UEA), TRPM5-positive cells contacted the lumen, while the a membrane marker of all taste bud cells (Figure 1G–I) basolateral part bore a long extension (Figure 3C). Like in . In fact, we found that TRPM5 is mainly localized at TRCs, TRPM5 in respiratory tract cells was restricted to the the basolateral cell surface of TRC and is absent in the gus- basolateral membrane (Figure 3D–I). tatory pore, readily stained by UEA. The distribution and morphological characteristics of Expression of TRPM5 in chemosensory organs these TRPM5-expressing cells were indicative of neuroen- Due to its biophysical characteristics (activation mecha- docrine cells, neuroendocrine bodies or brush cells [35- nisms, fast kinetics of activation and inactivation, high 37]. In order to assign the TRPM5-expressing cells to one temperature sensitivity) TRPM5 appears to be well suited of these entities, we performed double immunostainings to function in sensory cells. Therefore, we tested the against TRPM5 and cell-specific markers. hypothesis that TRPM5 may be present in sensory organs other than taste buds. Typical markers for neuroendocrine cells and bodies, i.e. chromogranin A, protein gene product 9, and calcitonin While we did not detect TRPM5 in the retina (data not gene-related peptide were found not to co-localize shown), we obtained positive signals in chemosensory with TRPM5 (data not shown). It is well established that organs: the olfactory epithelium and the VNO (Figure 2). brush cells of the respiratory system and the gastrointesti- In the main olfactory epithelium, we detected TRPM5 in nal tract display unique morphological features not solitary epithelial cells whose nuclei
