BMC Neuroscience
KEYWORDS: cells, taste, cell, brush, brush cells, epithelium, pbs, figure, sensory, rat, antibody, receptor, mouse, tract, gastrointestinal


brush cells of the respiratory system and the gastrointesti- In the main olfactory epithelium, we detected TRPM5 in nal tract display unique morphological features not solitary epithelial cells whose nuclei were mainly local- observed in any other epithelial cells . First, ized superficially, at the level of the supporting cell layer their numerous apical microvilli are highly enriched in fil- (Figure 2A,B). Occasionally, few nuclei of TRPM5 immu- aments which extend basally into the supranuclear area. nopositive cells appeared in the basal part of the epithe- Second, brush cells contain microvilli with corresponding lium (data not shown). Like typical ciliated olfactory cells, rootlets of filaments extending from the lateral cell sur- TRPM5-expressing cells have elongated cell bodies that face. Consequently, fluorescence microscopy enables the reach both the lumen and the basal membrane (Figure detection of intense immunoreactivity of villin in the api- 2C,D). cal as well as in the lateral regions of brush cells . Another remarkable feature of brush cells is that their In addition, we detected TRPM5 in sensory and non-sen- enrichment in villin is invariably accompanied by an sory epithelia of the VNO. In the sensory epithelium, intense immunoreactivity to cytokeratin 18 . There- TRPM5 was localized at the apical part of the cell (Figure fore, we used antibodies specific for villin or anti-cytoker- 2E,F), while in the non-sensory epithelium, TRPM5 was atin 18 (CK18), for co-immunostainings of these proteins (page number not for citation purposes) BMC Neuroscience 2007, 8:49 A B C 1 2 3 kDa D E F G H I TRPM5 UEA overlay FImigmuurneo 1localization of TRPM5 in taste buds of mouse papillae vallatae Immunolocalization of TRPM5 in taste buds of mouse papillae vallatae. The TRPM5-specific antibody Ab-321 recog- nizes TRPM5 transiently expressed in HEK 293 cells. (A) Western blot analysis of total lysates of mock- (line 1), TRPM5- (line 2) and YFP-TRPM5- (line 3) transfected HEK 293 cells. Positions of TRPM5- and YFP-TRPM5-specific bands are indicated by arrowheads. (B) Overlay of confocal and corresponding differential interference contrast (DIC) images of immunofluorescence staining of HEK 293 cells transiently expressing wild-type TRPM5. (C-E) Immunohistochemistry of taste buds using a TRPM5- specific antibody at lower (C) and higher magnifications (D, E). Notably, TRPM5 is predominantly localized on the basolateral surface of cells (indicated by the arrow in (D, E)). (F) Lack of TRPM5 immunoreactivity in taste receptors after preincubation of the TRPM5-specific antibody with the immunization
