BMC Neuroscience
KEYWORDS: cells, taste, cell, brush, brush cells, epithelium, pbs, figure, sensory, rat, antibody, receptor, mouse, tract, gastrointestinal


on the basolateral surface of cells (indicated by the arrow in (D, E)). (F) Lack of TRPM5 immunoreactivity in taste receptors after preincubation of the TRPM5-specific antibody with the immunization peptide. (G-I) Fluorescent labeling of taste buds with the TRPM5-spe- cific antibody (E) and the UEA lectin (H) and overlay of both with corresponding DIC image (I). Note that only a subset of cells in the taste bud is enriched in TRPM5. In the TRPM5-positive cells, TRPM5 is mainly localized on the basolateral cell surface and absent in microvilli (as indicated by an arrow (G, H, I)). Scale bars are 20 μm each. (page number not for citation purposes) BMC Neuroscience 2007, 8:49 and TRPM5 in tracheal tissue sections. We noted an invar- A B iable co-localization of these protein markers and TRPM5 in the same cells (Figure 3D–I) indicating that TRPM5- positive cells of the trachea are most probably brush cells. Rat alveolar epithelia contain solitary villin-positive cells considered to be brush cells . Therefore, we tested whether these cells that we could detect with an anti-villin antibody, would also yield a positive TRPM5 staining. Fig- ure 3J–L shows that TRPM5 and villin are invariably co- localized in solitary alveolar cells. C D Localization of TRPM5 in the gastrointestinal tract F Brush cells are known to be expressed not only in the res- piratory system, but throughout the gastrointestinal tract, and Northern blot analysis indicates a considerable enrichment of TRPM5 mRNA in the intestine . Thus, we extended our study to a detailed immunohistochemi- cal analysis of the gut. Throughout the gastrointestinal tract, we detected solitary TRPM5-positive cells (Figure 4). In the stomach, TRPM5-enriched cells were readily seen in the principal part of the gastric glands, most abundantly E F in the cardiac region (Figure 4A,B). In the small intestine (Figure 4C,D) and colon (Figure 4G,H) scarce solitary TRPM5-positive cells were scattered throughout the epi- thelial sheet with a conspicuous enrichment in the villar region in the ileum (Figure 4E,F). Similar to their counterparts in the tracheal epithelium, the TRPM5-positive cells in the gastrointestinal tract share morphological features with brush cells (Figure 5). Typi- cally, these cells directly face the luminal surface, and long G H basal extensions reach the lamina propria (Figure 5A–D). Unlike the surrounding gut epithelial cells, TRPM5-posi- tive cells display a conspicuous apical microvillar tuft reminiscent of brush cells (Figure 5C,D). Moreover, like in TRC
