BMC Neuroscience
KEYWORDS: cells, taste, cell, brush, brush cells, epithelium, pbs, figure, sensory, rat, antibody, receptor, mouse, tract, gastrointestinal


the lamina propria (Figure 5A–D). Unlike the surrounding gut epithelial cells, TRPM5-posi- tive cells display a conspicuous apical microvillar tuft reminiscent of brush cells (Figure 5C,D). Moreover, like in TRC and respiratory brush cells, TRPM5 expression sites were confined to the basolateral cell surface. In order to determine whether or not the cells detected were bona fide brush cells, we performed immunohisto- chemical co-stainings of TRPM5-positive cells with the TtFhiRegP uvMroe5m e2exroprneasssailo onr igna nmouse main olfactory epithelium and brush cell marker CK18 (Figure 5E–G). Most of the TRPM5 expression in mouse main olfactory epithe- TRPM5-expressing cells displayed a clear co-localization lium and the vomeronasal organ. Confocal images of with CK18. However, we found a minor CK18-negative TRPM5-specific signals (left panels) and overlay with corre- fraction (~30%), either due to limited sensitivity, or sponding DIC images (right panel) are depicted. (A-D) because these cells represent a distinct subtype. Con- Immunolocalization of TRPM5 in solitary cells of the main versely, all cells staining positively for CK18 clearly olfactory epithelium is shown at lower (indicated by the expressed TRPM5. arrows in (A, B)) and higher magnifications (C, D). (E-H) Immunohistochemistry of TRPM5 in the VNO. (E, F) Locali- To summarize, we found that TRPM5 is expressed zation of TRPM5 on the apical surface of sensory epithelia throughout the gastrointestinal tract, specifically in soli- (indicated by the arrow). (G, H) Detection of TRPM5- tary epithelial cells, which can be classified as brush cells enriched solitary cells in the non-sensory part of the VNO. Scale bars are 20 μm. based on cell distribution, morphological criteria and the presence of a specific marker protein. (page number not for citation purposes) BMC Neuroscience 2007, 8:49 A B C D E F anti-TRPM5 anti-Villin overlay G H I anti-TRPM5 anti-CK18 overlay J K L anti-TRPM5 anti-Villin overlay TFRigPuMre5 i3s specifically expressed in brush cells of the respiratory system TRPM5 is specifically expressed in brush cells of the respiratory system. Detection of solitary TRPM5-expressing cells in the mouse respiratory epithelium of nose (indicated by arrows in (A)), trachea (B) and bronchus (C). Overlays of TRPM5 fluorescence with the corresponding DIC images are shown. The inset in (C) shows the fluorescent image of a TRPM5- positive cell with a basolateral extension (indicated by the arrow). (D-L) TRPM5-expressing cells express brush cell-specific marker proteins. Confocal images of TRPM5-specific signals (left panels), villin or CK18 (middle panels) and their overlays with
