BMC Neuroscience
KEYWORDS: cells, taste, cell, brush, brush cells, epithelium, pbs, figure, sensory, rat, antibody, receptor, mouse, tract, gastrointestinal


basolateral extension (indicated by the arrow). (D-L) TRPM5-expressing cells express brush cell-specific marker proteins. Confocal images of TRPM5-specific signals (left panels), villin or CK18 (middle panels) and their overlays with corresponding DIC images (right panel) are shown. Note the co-localization of TRPM5 with villin (D-F) and CK18 (G-H) in rat trachea and TRPM5 with villin in rat alveolar epithelium (J-L). Scale bars are 20 μm. (page number not for citation purposes) BMC Neuroscience 2007, 8:49 Discussion A B Studies on TRP channels have significantly extended our knowledge of the molecular events underlying the sensa- tion of temperature, mechanical force, smell and taste. Thus, TRPM5 was recently shown to be enriched in TRC and is essential for the perception of sweet, bitter and umami taste compounds . However, it is well doc- umented in the scientific literature that the expression pat- tern of TRPM5 is not restricted to taste buds. These findings prompted us to test the hypothesis that TRPM5 may play a broader functional role in chemosensation than initially suggested by experiments with TRPM5-defi- C D cient mice. To this end, we raised and tested anti-TRPM5 antibodies whose staining pattern of taste receptor cells is fully con- gruent with previous work by other researchers . However, performing a more detailed analysis, we observed in addition that the basolateral plasma mem- brane of TRC is readily stained, whereas the apical part, the gustatory pore, is spared – a principle applying to all other TRPM5 positive cells investigated with the notable E F exception of cells in the sensory epithelium of the VNO. These observations provide further insight into the func- tion of TRPM5 in TRC. Most other TRP channels that are involved in sensory signaling are eo ipso receptors of extra- or intracellular messengers and are found at the exact location of primary signal detection. This notion holds true for both direct signal detectors like heat- or cold-sensing TRPs as well as for TRPC channels that are activated by a receptor and G protein-dependent sign- aling cascade like TRP and TRPL in the insect rhabdomere , the TRPC2 channel expressed in the dendritic knob G H of rodent VNO or TRPC6 expressed in microvillar cells of the main olfactory epithelium . Our data suggest that TRPM5 is not directly involved in the process of taste recognition. Activation of TRPM5 may depolarize the basolateral plasma membrane resulting in the modula- tion of
