BMC Neuroscience
KEYWORDS: cells, taste, cell, brush, brush cells, epithelium, pbs, figure, sensory, rat, antibody, receptor, mouse, tract, gastrointestinal


Our data suggest that TRPM5 is not directly involved in the process of taste recognition. Activation of TRPM5 may depolarize the basolateral plasma membrane resulting in the modula- tion of other voltage-dependent ion channels and subse- quent neurotransmitter release. Alternatively, the TRPM5- mediated depolarization of the basolateral membrane could modulate the function of gap junctions, and, thus change the physiological status of neighboring cells [47- 49]. DgFaiisgstturroribeinu t4teiosnti noafl TtrRaPcMt 5-immunoreactive cells in the mouse Distribution of TRPM5-immunoreactive cells in the Our studies with other sensory organs strongly indicate mouse gastrointestinal tract. Confocal images of TRPM5-specific signals (left panel) and their overlay with the that in addition to taste perception TRPM5 is also corresponding DIC images (right panel) are depicted. (A, B) involved in the processing of olfactory stimuli. Accord- TRPM5-expressing cells are abundant in the cardiac region of ingly, we identified TRPM5 in two chemosensory organs, the stomach. In gut epithelia, TRPM5-enriched cells are VNO and olfactory epithelia. detected in the duodenal villi (C, D), the ileum (E, F) and the colon (G, H). Scale bars are 20 μm. We detected TRPM5 in solitary cells within the non-sen- sory epithelium and apically in the sensory epithelium of the VNO. Interestingly, another member of the TRP gene family, the Ca2+-permeable TRPC2 is also present on the (page number not for citation purposes) BMC Neuroscience 2007, 8:49 an anti-TRPM4 antibody illustrate that TRPM4 is highly A B expressed in the sensory epithelium of the VNO where it localizes to the apical region of sensory cells like TRPM5 (data not shown). These findings raise the possibility that in the VNO, TRPM4 and TRPM5 are co-expressed and co- localized and might therefore assemble to form heterom- ultimeric channels whose subcellular trafficking and func- tional properties could differ from either channel expressed alone in other cells. In the olfactory epithelium, TRPM5 was found in scat- C D tered cells. The morphology and distribution of TRPM5- expressing cells are reminiscent of microvillar cells which are thought to be involved in sensing of odorants . By means of immunohistochemical criteria, it was recently shown that microvillar cells can be classified into at least two subtypes, one of which was denoted brush cells that were also found to be localized in the non-sensory epithelium of the VNO . The physiological relevance of TRPM5 expression in the VNO and the olfactory epithe- lium still remains to be clarified
