BMC Neuroscience
KEYWORDS: cells, taste, cell, brush, brush cells, epithelium, pbs, figure, sensory, rat, antibody, receptor, mouse, tract, gastrointestinal


to be localized in the non-sensory epithelium of the VNO . The physiological relevance of TRPM5 expression in the VNO and the olfactory epithe- lium still remains to be clarified by a meticulous analysis of odorant and pheromone sensing in TRPM5-deficient E F G mice. While this manuscript was under review, Lin W. et al. reported expression data similar to ours for TRPM5 in the main olfactory epithelium. Furthermore, these authors provided evidence for an involvement of TRPM5 in the sensing of semiochemicals, compatible anti-TRPM5 anti-CK18 overlay with our hypothesis that TRPM5 may take part in chemo- sensation. mFTiRogPruMprhe5o- l5eoxgpicraels asinndg bcieollcsh oefm tihcea l gcahsatrroacintetersisttinicasl otrfa bcrtu hsahv cee lls TRPM5-expressing cells of the gastrointestinal tract It was recently postulated that a population of specialized have morphological and biochemical characteristics cells of the respiratory epithelium and gastrointestinal of brush cells. (A-D) Morphological features of TRPM5- tract forming the so-called diffuse chemosensory system expressing cells. Confocal images of TRPM5-specific signals participates in the recognition and processing of diverse (left panels) and overlay with corresponding DIC images environmental cues . This assumption was recently (right panels) are shown. The TRPM5-enriched cells in gastric substantiated by the immunolocalization of signaling glands of mouse stomach (A, B) and in mouse a duodenal vil- proteins such as Gα , T2R, PLCβ2 and the IP III receptor lus (C, D) reveal a long basolateral processes (indicated by gust 3 the arrows). Within duodenal epithelia (C, D), the TRPM5- in solitary intestinal epithelial cells and in cells of the res- immunoreactive cell contains a protrusion extending beyond piratory system.)[23,25-29,55]. In accordance with these the epithelial luminal border (indicated by an arrowhead). (E- earlier findings, Bezençon et al. took advantage of TRPM5 G) Co-localization of TRPM5 with CK18 in intestinal glands promoter-based eGFP transgenic mice and identified of the rat duodenum. Confocal images of TRPM5 and CK18 GFP-positive cells in the gastrointestinal tract which par- specific signals (E, F) and their overlay with corresponding tially co-express a set of taste signaling proteins men- DIC images (G) are depicted. Scale bars are 10 μm. tioned above . These observations are in line with our data demonstrat- ing TRPM5 expression in scattered epithelial cells of the apical cell surface of the sensory epithelium of the VNO respiratory system and gastrointestinal tract. The cell body . Thus, it is imaginable that in conjunction with of TRPM5-enriched cells is bottle-shaped. The
