BMC Neuroscience
KEYWORDS: cells, taste, cell, brush, brush cells, epithelium, pbs, figure, sensory, rat, antibody, receptor, mouse, tract, gastrointestinal


of the sensory epithelium of the VNO respiratory system and gastrointestinal tract. The cell body . Thus, it is imaginable that in conjunction with of TRPM5-enriched cells is bottle-shaped. The apical elon- TRPC2, TRPM5 is required for the detection of pherom- gated narrow cell pole directly contacts the lumen and ones. In this context it should be recalled that TRPM5 protrudes beyond the neighboring epithelial cells. On the cDNA was isolated from the VNO . Furthermore, CAN basolateral cell pole, TRPM5-expressing cells have a long channel activity with electrophysical properties similar to process contacting the lamina propria. Thus, the distribu- TRPM5 or TRPM4 was measured in freshly isolated VNO tion and morphological characteristics of TRPM5-immu- neurons . Preliminary findings of our group using nopositive cells conspicuously share numerous features (page number not for citation purposes) BMC Neuroscience 2007, 8:49 with brush cells . To identify the cellular origin of rabbit IgG conjugated to Alexa488 (Molecular Probes, Lei- TRPM5-immunopositive cells, we resorted to double den, Netherlands), fluorescein-isothiocyanate (FITC)- immunofluorescence staining using antibodies directed labeled donkey anti-mouse antibody f(ab') -fragment against villin or CK18, proteins known to be enriched in (Dianova, Hamburg, Germany) and indocarbocyanin brush cells . We observed an invariable co-localiza- (Cy3)-labeled donkey anti-rabbit antibody (Chemicon, tion of these marker proteins with TRPM5 in the respira- Hampshire, United Kingdom). The lectin Ulex Europaeus tory system and a predominant co-localization in the Agglutinin (UEA) conjugated to rhodamine was pur- duodenum. chased from Vector laboratories (Burlingame, USA). Brush cells were initially defined by morphological crite- Molecular biology, generation of TRPM5 specific ria, and a clear biological role of this cell population still polyclonal peptide-antibody and peptide control remains elusive. Hypotheses about these cells' functional To generate TRPM5 N-terminally fused to enhanced yel- role range from absorptive processes , mechanosensa- low fluorescent protein (YFP), the start codon was tion , secretion [59-61] or a contribution to the local replaced by an EcoR1 restriction site by site-directed muta- immunological defense barrier [62-66]. In the respiratory genesis (XL QuickChange Mutagenesis kit, Stratagene, La system and the gastrointestinal tract, brush cells may play Jolla, CA) followed by in-frame subcloning of eYFP as a role in sensation of chemical compounds in the lumen described before (online Supporting Methods, PNAS [23,24,35,39,67-69]. The latter notion is derived from Chubanov et al. 2004). two salient observations: Firstly, brush cells display mor- phological features similar to TRC. Both cell types are
