BMC Neuroscience
KEYWORDS: cells, taste, cell, brush, brush cells, epithelium, pbs, figure, sensory, rat, antibody, receptor, mouse, tract, gastrointestinal


Methods, PNAS [23,24,35,39,67-69]. The latter notion is derived from Chubanov et al. 2004). two salient observations: Firstly, brush cells display mor- phological features similar to TRC. Both cell types are Polyclonal TRPM5-specific antibodies were raised by characterized by an apical tuft of stiff microvilli with long immunization of rabbits with the following peptides cou- rootlets into the cytoplasm lacking classical exocytotic pled via the N-terminus to keyhole limpet hemocyanin vesicles or synapses . Secondly, several signal- (KLH): H N-ARDREYLESGLPPSDT-COOH (AB-321), ing proteins pertinent to taste perception were identified H N-CSTHPLLLEDSPS-COOH (AB-391) and H N-CAE- 2 2 in a subset of brush cells, including α-gustducin HKREHLERDLPD-COOH (AB-392) (Standard immuni- and NO-synthase . To our knowledge, TRPM5 is the zation program, Eurogentec, Seraing, Belgium) and first protein identified to be specifically expressed in brush purified by peptide affinity chromatography. All three cells of the gastrointestinal tract and the respiratory sys- antibodies displayed specific binding to the TRPM5 pro- tem. These results lend further support to the view that tein in Western blot, immunocytochemistry and immu- taste cells and brush cells share a common functional nohistochemistry. Of the three antibodies raised, AB-321 principle, i.e. chemosensation, and that brush cells are an displayed the highest sensitivity and was, therefore, used important cellular correlate for chemosensation in the in all experiments shown. AB-391 and AB-392 were only periphery. used to verify the specificity of the AB-321- immunoreac- tivity. Conclusion The abundant and specific expression of TRPM5 in taste As a control for the specificity of TRPM5 immunoreactiv- receptor cells, the VNO and the olfactory epithelium is ity, the AB-321 antibody was pre-cleared by an overnight consistent with the assumption that TRPM5 has a com- incubation at 4°C with the agarose-immobilized immu- mon functional role in sensation of taste compounds, nization peptide. This procedure abolished TRPM5 olfaction of odorants and pheromones. TRPM5 is the first immunoreactivity in all experiments reported here. protein identified to show high and invariable enrich- ment in brush cells of the gastrointestinal tract and the Cell culture, Western blot analysis and respiratory system. Our data are suggestive of brush cells immunocytochemistry on cells as a specialized population of epithelial cells potentially Human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells were cultured involved in chemosensation and of TRPM5 as a character- at 37°C and 5% CO in Earle's MEM supplemented with istic molecular constituent of the sensory machinery of 10% [v/v] fetal calf serum, 100
