Andrianaivoarimananaetal.BMCPulmonaryMedicine (2018) 18:92
KEYWORDS: plague, pestis, infection, treatment, patient, maltophilia, madagascar, pneumonic, case, days, fig, pneumonic plague, streptomycin, disease, showed


CASE REPORT Open Access Mixed pneumonic plague and nosocomial MDR-bacterial infection of lung: a rare case report Voahangy Andrianaivoarimanana1, Eric Bertherat2, Rojo Rajaonarison3, Tiana Rakotondramaro4, Christophe Rogier5,6 and Minoarisoa Rajerison1* Abstract Background: Plague is a life-threatening disease caused by thebacterium,Yersinia pestis.Madagascar is theleading country for human plague cases worldwide. Human plague is a serious disease,particularly inits septicaemic and pneumonic forms. We report a case of pneumonicplague co-infected by a MDR-Stenotrophomonas maltophilia. Case presentation: A 24 year-old man originated from Soavinandriana, a plague focus, feltuneasy and developed high fever with chills. He started treatment byhimself, byprivate medical care and by a traditionalhealer for nine days moving severaltimes from place to place. His condition had deteriorated when he presented to a district diagnosis, performed as a last resort, revealed a positive F1 antigen onrapid diagnostic test. Additional tests (pla PCRand plague serology) evidenced a Y. pestis infection. However, streptomycin treatment did not achieve a complete recovery as thecourse of disease was complicated bythepresence of MDR-S.maltophilia inhis lung. This opportunistic infection could have been favored by an immunosuppression due to Y. pestis pulmonary infection and probably been acquired during his stay at a District Hospital. He was treated with a combination of ciprofloxacin and gentamycin and recovered fully. Conclusions: Pneumonic plague infectionmay promote another virulent or avirulent bacterial infection particularly when it is not initially suspected. However, coinfectionis rarely described and its occurrence frequency is unknown. Inmiddle or low resources areas,which is thecase ofmost plague endemic countries, control and prevention of maltophilia, is a risk which must not be disregarded as demonstratedby this case report.When deciding ofa national control strategy, it should be taken into account in thechoice of thefirst line treatment. Keywords: Yersinia pestis,Stenotrophomonas maltophilia,Pneumonia, Madagascar Background untreated. Pneumonic plague severity is due to Y. pestis Plague is a rapidly progressing disease in humans caused ability to evade the host immune system and also to the by the bacterium, Yersinia pestis . Transmission of rapid establishment, by Y. pestis infection, of a permis- bubonic plague to human occurs after the bite of an sive environment for microbial proliferation in the lung by inhalation of infectious respiratory droplets spread (WHO),3248casesof humanplaguehavebeen reported from a patient suffering from pneumonic plague. In that between 2010 and 2015 by 11 countries from Africa, the case, the fatality rate is almost 100% if the patient is left Americas and Asia. During this period, Madagascar accounted for 74%
