Andrianaivoarimananaetal.BMCPulmonaryMedicine (2018) 18:92
KEYWORDS: plague, pestis, infection, treatment, patient, maltophilia, madagascar, pneumonic, case, days, fig, pneumonic plague, streptomycin, disease, showed


maltophilia is an itional healer authorized him to get a treatment by aerobic gram-negative bacillus which is an opportunistic modern medicine. On January 7, 2014, an agent of a Fig.1Mapemphasizingonthepatient’sitinerary.Site1Ambohimanana-Soavinandriana:patient’svillage;Site2Andoharanokely-Faratsiho: Traditionalhealer’svillage;Site3MiarinarivoDistrictHospital;Site4MilitaryHospitalofAntananarivo;Site5Anti-PlagueHospital ofAmbohimiandra-Antananarivo Andrianaivoarimananaetal.BMCPulmonaryMedicine (2018) 18:92 Page3of6 availabletreatment(betalactam,antipyretic,bronchodila- sputumassociatedwithameanabundanceof hemoptysis, tor and a prokinetic agent) and evacuated him to Miari- dyspnea, bilateral crackles and breath-sounds rales. The syndrome of dyspnea, bronchial rale and altered state of lysis showed a rise in the level of C-reactive protein consciousness. On his admission to MDH on January 8, (12 mg/ml) revealing an inflammatory syndrome. In 2014, he had a temperature of 39.5 °C and a heart rate addition, the second sputum sample collected remained of 120 b/min. The chest radiograph showed right pleural positiveforY.pestisF1antigen.Inordertolimitexposure effusion and left radio-opacities of the lower lobe to the disease, the patient was transferred to the (Fig. 2a). Rapid diagnostic test (RDT) for malaria and Anti-Plague Hospital of Ambohimiandra-Antananarivo Widal-Felix serology for typhoid fever were both (APHAA)(Fig.1,Site5)thesamedayat01:00p.m.Once negative. Acid-fast bacilli from two sputa cultures were admitted,hewasisolatedinanindividualroom.Giventhe also negative. Therefore, he was treated for pneumonia positive result of Y. pestis F1 antigen and the absence of with ceftriaxone(1g)intravenously(IV). patient’shealthimprovement,anothertherapeuticscheme Considering the fact that he was living in a known was initiated and consisted of a combination of IV plague region, RDT for Y. pestis F1 antigen was ciprofloxacin(400to600mgtwiceperdayfor6days)and performed on sputum as a differential diagnosis the next IV gentamycin (3 mg/kg per day, for 6 days). day and was markedly positive, suggesting a pneumonic Bacteriological culture of the second sputum sample also plague infection. Intramuscular streptomycin treatment failed to isolate Y. pestis, however growing colonies on was immediately initiated after the diagnosis according cefsulodin-irgasan-novobiocin medium were identified as every3hfor2daysfollowedby0,5gevery4hfor2days susceptibilitytestusingadiskdiffusionmethodasperthe and 1 g twice a day for 4 days. This sputum sample was Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute guidelines sent to the Central Laboratory for Plague at Institut showed that S. maltophilia isolate was sensitive to Pasteur de Madagascar for bacteriological confirmation trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, ciprofloxacin and chlor- but did not yield Y. pestis strain; instead Citrobacter amphenicol, but was resistant to tetracycline, strepto- freundiiwasidentified.After completing an8-daycourse mycin, gentamycin and ampicillin. Strain Escherichia coli of streptomycin treatment, the patient’s condition ATCC®25,922 was used as control. Moreover, plague remained stable without signs of recovery. Therefore, on ELISA serology testing in paired serum samples his family against medical advice and sought treatment July 29, 2011) performed at a 7-day interval showed Site 4). On
