Andrianaivoarimananaetal.BMCPulmonaryMedicine (2018) 18:92
KEYWORDS: plague, pestis, infection, treatment, patient, maltophilia, madagascar, pneumonic, case, days, fig, pneumonic plague, streptomycin, disease, showed


recovery. Therefore, on ELISA serology testing in paired serum samples his family against medical advice and sought treatment July 29, 2011) performed at a 7-day interval showed Site 4). On his admission at MHA on January 18, 2014 and PCR test targeting Y. pestis plasminogen at 11:30 a.m., a second chest radiograph revealed an activator (pla) gene was positive on all sputum enlargement of left opacities and appearance of right samples. nodular opacity, but a decrease of right pleural effusion The suggested bi-therapy treatment led to the pa- (Fig. 2b). His status has still altered and marked with tient’s condition improvement and recovery. Upon asthenia, anorexia, weight loss, greyish complexion, discharge, on January 27, 2014, his third chest X-ray colored conjunctiva with a temperature of 38.5 °C. Dur- demonstrated a decrease of right opacity and left ing physical examination, he had a cough with purulent pleural effusion (Fig. 2c). Fig.2ChestX-rayofthepneumonicplaguepatient.aonadmissionatMiarinarivoDistrictHospital:chestX-rayimagerevealedrightpleural effusionandradio-opacitiesofleftlowerlobe,(b)OnpresentationtotheMilitaryHospitalofAntananarivo(10daysafterA):enlargementofleft opacitiesandappearanceofrightnodularopacity,decreaseofrightpleuraleffusion,and(c)UpondischargeatAnti-plagueHospitalof Ambohimiandra-Antananarivo(9daysafterB),decreaseofrightopacityandleftpleuraleffusion Andrianaivoarimananaetal.BMCPulmonaryMedicine (2018) 18:92 Page4of6 Discussion establish a permissive environment for proliferation of Madagascar is one of the most active plague regions in usually nonpathogenic bacteria . In middle or low the world and was the origin of a natural multi-drug resources areas, which is the case of most plague resistant strain of Y. pestis . Incidence has declined in endemic countries, control and prevention of infec- the last 2 years but there has been an increase in the tions in health facilities is not optimal. Co-infection overall case-fatality rate (23% in 2015) associated with with an opportunistic pathogen agent is a risk which the high frequency of pneumonic form (23.3%) . must not be disregarded. Indeed, S. maltophilia is an Within 24–36 h after the onset of symptoms, pneu- important emergent opportunistic pathogen, causing monic plague progresses to an irreversible and lethal lung colonization or pulmonary infections among syndrome that cannot be effectively treated . Indeed, immunosuppressed patients. According to available 3 days without prompt and adequate treatment. For the lia colonization and infection can be confusing . presentcase,whichismostlikelyaprimarypneumonicin- His chest X-ray, 10 days after MDH admission, fection, the early doses of trimethoprime-sulfamethoxazole showed right nodular opacity (Fig. 2b) and might be self-administered might have induced a latent phase in evocative of S. maltophilia colonization or infection pneumonic plague infection, a delayed infection course of a severely impaired host . which allowed the patient to survive despite a delay of S. maltophilia infection/colonization management is plague treatment.
