Andrianaivoarimananaetal.BMCPulmonaryMedicine (2018) 18:92
KEYWORDS: plague, pestis, infection, treatment, patient, maltophilia, madagascar, pneumonic, case, days, fig, pneumonic plague, streptomycin, disease, showed


pneumonic plague infection, a delayed infection course of a severely impaired host . which allowed the patient to survive despite a delay of S. maltophilia infection/colonization management is plague treatment. It was demonstrated that the most com- often problematic due to its inherent resistance to mul- mon indications for self-medication were pain, fever and tiple broad-spectrum antibiotic agents . Thus, for cough . In addition, antibiotic medication rapidly clears the presenting case, the initial streptomycin treatment the sputum of plague bacilli, so that a patient is generally was effective for Y. pestis infection but not for S. malto- not infective within hours after initiation of effective anti- philia. The use of ciprofloxacin in secondary bi-therapy and epidemiological evidence (residence in a plague also recommended as an alternative treatment for S. endemic area) are consistent with a pneumonic plague maltophilia infection . Indeed, recent study also infection. Additionally, laboratory results met the criterion supported the broader use oforalciprofloxacin for treat- of the WHO standard case definition for a “Confirmed ment of human plague including pneumonic form. Its plaguecase”.ItisnoteworthythatF1antigenisspecific bactericidal activity is comparable to that of strepto- toY.pestis,temperature-stableandisexcretedinlarge mycin, and its mode of administration is less restrictive; amount in samples from plague infected people . The more acceptable for exposed population . In failure of Y. pestis isolation by bacterial culture is not addition, a wide range of antibiotics was already in vitro uncommonifantibiotictreatmentwasadministeredbefore tested for their susceptibility to geographically diverse sampling.PositiveresultsofF1antigenRDTonall strains of Y. pestis which provide alternatives for plague sputum samples showed that Y. pestis F1 antigen could treatment . Another study had also investigated the persist and be detected several days after the beginning of susceptibility patterns of Y. pestis strains from diverse treatment, when the plague bacillus is no longer sources to 12 antimicrobial agents and showed that a viable ; for this case, F1 antigen persisted large panel of Y. pestis remained susceptible not only to for 10 days after the beginning of treatment and drugs traditionally used to treat plague (streptomycin, 20 days after disease onset. Due to the failure of the doxycycline and chloramphenicol), but also to newer culture, sensitivity of Y. pestis to streptomycin was agents (broad-spectrum cephalosporins and quinolones). not tested; however a resistance is doubtful because The most active compounds against Y. pestis included the patient would have likely succumbed to pneu- ceftriaxone and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, quino- monic plague infection if the complete
