Chapter 15: Diabetes in Youth
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, youth, type diabetes, years, age, prevalence, duration, age years, onset, youth type, mean, insulin, youth age, higher


15–1 CHAPTER 15 DIABETES IN YOUTH Dana Dabelea, MD, PhD, Richard F. Hamman, MD, DrPH, and William C. Knowler, MD, DrPH Dr. Dana Dabelea is a Professor of Epidemiology and Pediatrics and Dr. Richard F. Hamman is a Distinguished Professor of Epidemiology and Founding Dean Emeritus at the Colorado School of Public Health, University of Colorado Denver, Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora, CO. Dr. William C. Knowler is the Chief of the Diabetes Epidemiology and Clinical Research Section at the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Phoenix, AZ. Received in final form May 19, 2015. SUMMARY Diabetes is the third most prevalent severe chronic disease of childhood and a leading cause of retinopathy, nephropathy, neuropathy, and coronary and peripheral vascular disease later in life. Diabetes diagnosed in youth, defined as age <18 years, and young adults is not always easy to classify into one of the main etiologic “types”, i.e., type 1 or type 2. This is especially true since obesity, classically associated with type 2 diabetes, is now more common among youth with type 1 diabetes. Data suggest that youth with diabetes autoantibodies and obesity are metabolically similar to thin type 1 diabetic youth and do not have “type 1.5” or “double diabetes.” The prevalence of diabetes in U.S. youth in 2009 was 2.2 per 1,000 overall; the prevalence of type 1 diabetes was 1.93 per 1,000 and that of type 2 diabetes was 0.24 per 1,000. Non-Hispanic white youth had the highest prevalence of type 1 diabetes, followed by non-Hispanic black youth. Type 2 diabetes was found to occur in all racial/ethnic groups, but the proportion of type 1 to type 2 diabetes varied greatly by race/ethnicity, with type 2 diabetes representing only 5.5% of cases of diabetes in non-Hispanic white youth, but 80% of diabetes in American Indian youth. Between 2001 and 2009, a 31% increase in prevalence of type 2 diabetes and a 21% increase in prevalence of type 1 diabetes were observed. Risk factors for type 1 diabetes include genetics, especially the HLA region, and environmental factors, such as viruses and early life diet, though few nongenetic factors are well established. Type 2 diabetes risk factors include genetics, which explains only a small percentage of risk, intrauterine exposure to maternal obesity and diabetes, and high gestational weight gain, as well as postnatal obesity with rapid catch-up growth from low
