Chapter 15: Diabetes in Youth
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, youth, type diabetes, years, age, prevalence, duration, age years, onset, youth type, mean, insulin, youth age, higher


explains only a small percentage of risk, intrauterine exposure to maternal obesity and diabetes, and high gestational weight gain, as well as postnatal obesity with rapid catch-up growth from low birth weight. Breastfeeding appears to reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes in youth. The major complications of youth-onset diabetes were once thought to develop only after achieving adult age. Newer data suggest that with sensitive techniques, diabetic retinopathy, neuropathy, and elevated urine albumin concentrations can be detected after 3–5 years of diabetes duration. In addition, increased arterial stiffness, reduced heart rate variability (as a sign of cardiac autonomic neuropathy), and carotid artery wall thickening can also be detected and are associated with higher levels of glycemia. These subclinical and clinical outcomes appear to be more common among youth with type 2 than type 1 diabetes at the same duration. Cardiovascular disease risk factors (e.g., lipids, blood pressure, inflammatory and oxidative stress markers) are also elevated after short durations, especially in youth with type 2 diabetes or those with poor glycemic control. Mortality among youth with diabetes is elevated compared to nondi­ abetic controls by 30%–200%. Those with type 1 diabetes diagnosed before age 20 years have a life expectancy that is 15–27 years shorter than that of nondiabetic persons, although substantial improvements in life expectancy have been noted among those diag­ nosed after 1965. No life expectancy studies are available among youth with type 2 diabetes. The earlier onset of both type 1 and type 2 diabetes results in a longer duration of diabetes at any adult age than in prior years. Thus, women with youth-onset diabetes are now more likely to have diabetes during their pregnancies, which results in increased offspring risk for both obesity and diabetes. In addition, complications development is duration dependent, so persons with youth-onset diabetes now face chronic kidney disease and dialysis, myocardial infarction, and stroke at younger ages than persons who develop diabetes as adults, resulting in greater life-years lost and higher health care costs. Since type 2 diabetes and many of the risk factors for complications in both types of diabetes cluster in youth who are economically disadvantaged, significant efforts to improve care will be required. DEFINITIONS AND CLASSIFICATIONS OF DIABETES IN YOUTH The initial classification of diabetes, devel­ oped in 1979 by an expert committee assembled by the National Institutes of Health (NIH), recommended the use of clinical characteristics, such as
