Chapter 15: Diabetes in Youth
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, youth, type diabetes, years, age, prevalence, duration, age years, onset, youth type, mean, insulin, youth age, higher


YOUTH The initial classification of diabetes, devel­ oped in 1979 by an expert committee assembled by the National Institutes of Health (NIH), recommended the use of clinical characteristics, such as age of onset (juvenile vs. adult-onset) and method of treatment (insulin-dependent vs. non-insulin-dependent), to define type of diabetes (1). Over time, this classifica­ tion system became unsatisfactory, due to the overlap in clinical characteristics and the widespread use of insulin treatment, regardless of presumed type of diabetes. Therefore, in 1997, the American Diabetes Association (ADA) convened a second 15–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition expert committee (2) that proposed a physiologic framework to classify type of diabetes. The committee concluded that most diabetes cases fell into two broad categories: type 1 diabetes, an absolute deficiency of insulin usually due to autoim­ mune destruction of the pancreatic beta cells, and type 2 diabetes, a combination of insulin resistance and relative insulin deficiency. Rare forms of diabetes were combined and labeled “other diabetes types,” including genetic defects of beta cell function, genetic defects of insulin action, and a variety of secondary forms of diabetes (see Chapter 6 Other Specific Types of Diabetes). Finally, a separate cate­ gory was labeled “gestational diabetes,” defined as any degree of glucose intoler­ ance with onset or first recognition during pregnancy (see Chapter 4 Gestational Diabetes). This chapter focuses on the most common forms of pediatric diabetes: type 1 and type 2 diabetes in youth. Monogenic forms of diabetes that affect children, such as maturity-onset diabetes of youth and neonatal diabetes, are described in Chapter 7 Monogenic Forms of Diabetes. TYPE 1 DIABETES IN YOUTH Type 1 diabetes is believed to be caused by immune-mediated beta cell destruction leading to insulin deficiency. Symptoms are usually rapid in onset and include polyuria, polydipsia, weight loss, abdominal symptoms, headaches, and ketoacidosis. Insulin therapy is necessary for survival (3). The autoimmune destruction of the beta cells is mediated by T cells and accompa­ nied by the formation of autoantibodies, such as those against the 65 kD isoform of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GADA), those against the zinc transporter 8 (ZnT8A), insulinoma-associated-2 anti­ bodies (IA-2A), insulin autoantibodies (IAA), and islet cell autoantibodies (ICA). These antibodies are present prior to the appear­ ance of clinical disease and predict disease development (4,5,6). The presence of each antibody at diagnosis varies with age of onset, sex, and race/ethnicity (7,8,9), but one or more autoantibodies are
