Chapter 15: Diabetes in Youth
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, youth, type diabetes, years, age, prevalence, duration, age years, onset, youth type, mean, insulin, youth age, higher


of clinical disease and predict disease development (4,5,6). The presence of each antibody at diagnosis varies with age of onset, sex, and race/ethnicity (7,8,9), but one or more autoantibodies are typically present at diagnosis of type 1 diabetes in 80%–90% of affected children (3). If anti­ bodies are present in the context of clear insulinopenia and ketosis, a diagnosis of autoimmune type 1 diabetes or type 1a diabetes is given. If patients have a clinical picture consistent with type 1 diabetes, but no antibodies are present, the ADA recognizes a category labeled type 1b diabetes (or idiopathic type 1 diabetes). Patients with type 1b diabetes tend to be older, are often of African or Asian descent, and have a greater body mass index (BMI, kg/m²) than age-matched children with autoimmune type 1 diabetes (3). It is not clear whether these patients have a different underlying pathology or if they manifest autoantibodies that are not measured by common assays. In 2006, because of concerns regarding lack of standardization of autoantibody assays among various laboratories, NIH convened an international committee of experts to ensure standardization of GADA and IA-2A measurements. This standard­ ization was a significant step forward in ensuring correct classification of autoim­ mune-mediated diabetes (10). TYPE 2 DIABETES IN YOUTH Once thought to be a disease of adulthood, type 2 diabetes is increasingly recognized in children and adolescents, reportedly accounting for 20%–50% of new-onset diabetes cases in pediatric populations within the United States (11,12) and disproportionately affecting minority racial/ethnic groups, especially African Americans, South and East Asians, Pacific Island Natives, and American Indians/ First Nation peoples (13,14,15,16,17,18). The increase in type 2 diabetes in youth is thought to be secondary to concurrent increases in obesity. This form of diabetes is primarily characterized by insulin resis­ tance detected at the level of skeletal muscle, liver, and adipose tissues with a failure of beta cell compensation and a relative insulin deficiency (3). The extent to which children progress through stages of obesity, insulin resistance, and glucose intolerance to type 2 diabetes is not fully understood; however, the pathway to disease is much shorter and less predict­ able in children than in adults. Pediatric patients with type 2 diabetes are usually overweight or obese (BMI ≥85th percentile for age and sex), and comorbidities, such as hypertension and dyslipidemia, can be present at diagnosis. Often there is a strong family history of diabetes in
