Chapter 15: Diabetes in Youth
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, youth, type diabetes, years, age, prevalence, duration, age years, onset, youth type, mean, insulin, youth age, higher


obese (BMI ≥85th percentile for age and sex), and comorbidities, such as hypertension and dyslipidemia, can be present at diagnosis. Often there is a strong family history of diabetes in first and second degree family members. Weight loss at diagnosis is less common than in type 1 diabetes patients, and acanthosis nigricans is frequently identified on examination. Patients usually present with evidence of residual beta cell function, although no standardized cutoffs exist for insulin or C-peptide levels. These patients typically lack evidence of auto­ immunity. Ketosis is less common than in type 1 diabetes, as individuals with type 2 diabetes usually produce enough insulin secretion to prevent lipolysis. Insulin may or may not be required at diagnosis or for long-term treatment of hyperglycemia, but insulin therapy is not required for survival (3). LIMITATIONS AND CHALLENGES OF TRADITIONAL CLASSIFICATION APPROACHES Because of clinical differences at the time of diagnosis, a presumptive clin­ ical classification of patients as having type 1 diabetes or type 2 diabetes is possible, although not always clear cut. The weight distribution of children with type 1 diabetes is usually proportionate to the weight distribution in the general population (19,20). Thus, approximately 20%–40% of children with type 1 diabetes are now overweight (depending on race/ ethnicity), though rarely as overweight as most youth with type 2 diabetes. The presence of acanthosis nigricans, hyper­ tension, or hyperlipidemia at diabetes onset is most consistent with insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes. However, with hyperglycemia and insulinopenia, there is some degree of insulin resistance in patients with type 1 diabetes as well. Although family history is important, approximately 15% of African American youth with type 1 diabetes have a family history of type 2 diabetes. Likewise, patients with type 1 diabetes have a three times greater presence of type 2 diabetes in their families than does the general population (21). Although ketoacidosis is Diabetes in Youth 15–3 more common with type 1 diabetes, up to 29% of patients with type 2 diabetes may have ketosis at disease onset because of hyperglycemia-induced beta cell toxicity, resulting in very low endogenous insulin/C-peptide levels (22). Therefore, C-peptide levels may be low at diagnosis of type 2 diabetes and may be normal during the honeymoon phase of type 1 diabetes and thus not helpful in classifica­ tion at onset of diabetes (23). Since the late 1990s, it has been noted that obese adolescents with a
