Chapter 15: Diabetes in Youth
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, youth, type diabetes, years, age, prevalence, duration, age years, onset, youth type, mean, insulin, youth age, higher


phase of type 1 diabetes and thus not helpful in classifica­ tion at onset of diabetes (23). Since the late 1990s, it has been noted that obese adolescents with a clinical picture suggestive of type 2 diabetes can present in ketoacidosis of varying degrees (22,24) or have evidence of autoimmunity (25). In such situations, due to the absence of standard case definitions, terms such as “type 1.5 diabetes,” “double,” “hybrid,” or “mixed” diabetes have been used (26). Although not part of the ADA classification system, these terms are familiar to most endocrinologists and found in well-respected journals. The current ADA etiologic classification of diabetes poses important practical challenges for researchers and clinicians because it does not provide operational definitions for the markers used to define types of diabetes (i.e., autoimmunity, insulin resistance, insulin deficiency). Thus, no standard case definitions exist for epidemiologic research or surveillance of pediatric diabetes. In addition, the ADA framework assumes that there are two distinct types of diabetes, with little or no overlap. The reader is referred to Chapter 1 Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes for additional discussion of this topic. NOVEL APPROACHES TO CLASSIFICATION OF DIABETES IN YOUTH The SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth study (SEARCH) developed a novel approach to classify type of diabetes using the 1997 ADA framework (27) by operationalizing two main etiologic markers, autoimmunity and insulin sensitivity, to identify etio­ logic subgroups of youth with diabetes. Presence of autoimmunity was based on positive titers for either GADA (≥33 NIDDK U/mL) or IA-2A (≥5 NIDDK U/mL). Since many participants were treated with insulin, positive IAA was not included. Insulin sensitivity (IS) was estimated using the following equation: IS = exp [4.64725 - 0.02032*(waist, cm) - 0.09779*(A1c, %) - 0.00235*(triglyceride, mg/dL)], developed and validated by performing a euglyce­ mic-hyperinsulinemic clamp study in a subset of diabetic participants and nondia­ betic controls (28). The major component of the formula explaining 70% of the variance in measured glucose disposal rate was waist circumference. The study established the range of IS for nondiabetic youth by applying the equation to 2,860 multiracial youth age 12–20 years partic­ ipating in the U.S. National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys (NHANES) in 1999–2004, and insulin resistance was defined as an IS value below the 25th percentile (IS <8.15) for NHANES youth. Participants were classified into four mutually exclusive groups: autoimmune and insulin sensitive, autoimmune and insulin resistant, non-autoimmune and insulin
