Chapter 15: Diabetes in Youth
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, youth, type diabetes, years, age, prevalence, duration, age years, onset, youth type, mean, insulin, youth age, higher


IA-2A were, in fact, positive for ZnT8A (29) and that most cases with single-gene mutations in hepatocyte nuclear factor (HNF)1α, HNF4α, or glucokinase present with a phenotype consisting of insulin sensitivity and absence of autoimmunity (30). Taken together, these findings suggest that standard case definitions can be operationalized to classify type of diabetes in youth (Figure 15.1) (31): type 1 diabetes is autoimmune diabetes, regardless of presence of obesity or insulin resistance, while type 2 diabetes requires absence of diabetes-related autoantibodies and presence of large waist circumference or insulin resistance (for example, based on the above equation). For the small proportion of patients who may not be able to be classified as proposed above, additional tests may be required. This approach has not yet been evaluated in other populations nor accepted by U.S. or international diabetes organizations as standard of practice. 15–4 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition SEARCH also found that provider-assign­ ment of type of diabetes agreed well with the etiological assessment, at least for cases that fit the typical pictures of type 1 and type 2 diabetes (27). Therefore, for the purpose of public health surveillance of pediatric diabetes, use of provider-as­ signed type of diabetes collected from medical records, along with periodic validation using diabetes-related auto­ antibodies and waist circumference in a sample of representative cases, may represent an adequate and cost-effective case definition strategy. FIGURE 15.1. Algorithm for Classification of Pediatric Diabetes GADA, glutamic acid decarboxylase antibody; IA-2A, insulinoma-associated antibody 2; IAA, insulin autoantibody; MODY, maturity-onset diabetes of youth; ZnT8A, zinc transporter 8 antibody. SOURCE: Reference 31, copyright © 2014 American Diabetes Association, reprinted with permission from the American Diabetes Association BURDEN OF DIABETES AMONG U.S. YOUTH The following sections of this chapter emphasize publications of North American studies (United States, Canada, Mexico) from 2000 to the present. Older publica­ tions are included when seminal or when little else was available. Publications from outside North America are included to help place American results in context, or when they present unique results, but their inclusion is not systematic. Much of the knowledge of the burden of childhood type 1 diabetes has been gener­ ated by large collaborative efforts based on standardized registry data, such as the Diabetes Mondiale (DIAMOND) Project worldwide (32,33) and the EURODIAB Study in Europe (34,35). These registries showed that, while at the start of the 20th century, type 1 diabetes was rare and
