Chapter 15: Diabetes in Youth
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, youth, type diabetes, years, age, prevalence, duration, age years, onset, youth type, mean, insulin, youth age, higher


Mondiale (DIAMOND) Project worldwide (32,33) and the EURODIAB Study in Europe (34,35). These registries showed that, while at the start of the 20th century, type 1 diabetes was rare and rapidly fatal, by the end of the century, a steady increase in incidence had been reported in many parts of the world (33). In addition, emerging data have indicated, also by the end of the century, that type 2 diabetes had become the major form of diabetes in young people in several nonwhite populations. Nevertheless, epidemiologic data for temporal trends in pediatric diabetes, by type, are minimal for most of the global population of children, including North America. To address some of these needs, SEARCH, a multicenter epidemiologic study conducted in six U.S. centers (South Carolina, Ohio, Colorado [and selected American Indian reservations in Arizona and New Mexico], Washington, Hawaii, and Kaiser Permanente Southern California) that encompass the racial and ethnic diversity of the United States, was launched in the early 2000s. The registry was designed to estimate the prevalence and incidence of diabetes among U.S. youth age <20 years, according to type of diabetes, age, sex, and race/ethnicity, and to characterize selected acute and chronic complications of diabetes and their risk factors. In addition to SEARCH, the Philadelphia Pediatric Diabetes Registry has published incidence data on three racial/ethnic groups with type 1 diabetes since 1985. Other pediatric type 1 diabetes registries in the United States and Canada have also provided data, which are summarized below. TYPE 1 DIABETES The majority of epidemiologic data on type 1 diabetes are based on a clinical definition, including physician diagnosis and daily insulin injections (36). In addi­ tion, most European studies have limited the age range of populations to <15 years to avoid misclassification of type of diabetes. With the exception of SEARCH and the Philadelphia Registry (37), studies have assumed, but not confirmed via measured diabetes autoantibodies, that “type 1” diabetes is autoimmune- mediated diabetes. Selected data on prevalence, incidence, and trends in the incidence of type 1 diabetes in youth age <20 years from North American studies are summarized in this section, with a focus on race/ethnicity-specific estimates. A comprehensive overview is presented in Chapter 2 Prevalence and Incidence of Type 1 Diabetes Among Children and Adults in the United States and Comparison With Non-U.S. Countries. Prevalence Comparisons of prevalence data may not fully capture the impact of diabetes, since prevalence
