Chapter 15: Diabetes in Youth
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, youth, type diabetes, years, age, prevalence, duration, age years, onset, youth type, mean, insulin, youth age, higher


1 DIABETES Genetic susceptibility plays a large role in type 1 diabetes, with the HLA genotypes (DR and DQ genes) explaining approxi­ mately 40%–50% of type 1 diabetes risk (91). The genetic variation can explain part of the geographic variation in incidence, but increased transmission of type 1 diabetes susceptibility is unlikely to explain the increasing trend over time of incidence of type 1 diabetes. Studies exploring potential temporal changes in the frequency and/or distribution of HLA genotypes associated with type 1 diabetes susceptibility found a decreasing frequency of high-risk HLA genotypes over time in individuals diag­ nosed with type 1 diabetes (92,93,94,95). These data suggest that the increase in type 1 diabetes since the 1950s–1960s is not likely due to increased incidence among those at the highest genetic risk in the HLA region, but rather, the result of a more permissive environment resulting in increased penetrance of low/moderate risk HLA genotypes or other genetic loci, or interactions between environmental risk factors and non-HLA genes. For addi­ tional information, the reader is referred to Chapter 12 Genetics of Type 1 Diabetes. Several environmental factors are involved in the disease etiology, as extensively described in Chapter 11 Risk Factors for Type 1 Diabetes. This section briefly summarizes the risk factors most relevant for type 1 diabetes in youth. They are hypothesized to operate through a variety of mechanisms, including triggering an autoimmune response, overloading the beta cells and promoting apoptosis, or through alterations in the intestinal microbiome. However, few studies have explored whether changes in exposures to such risk factors may be responsible for the steady increase in type 1 diabetes worldwide. Longitudinal, collaborative efforts, such as The Environmental Determinants of Diabetes in the Young (TEDDY) study, following children at risk for type 1 diabetes from birth onwards, allow comparisons among different popu­ lations (United States, Finland, Germany, and Sweden) with different background incidence rates, different lifestyles, and environmental trends; these studies are expected to identify major environmental triggers of autoimmunity and type 1 diabetes. Viruses and Immunizations Viruses have long been considered a major risk factor for type 1 diabetes (96). The hypothesis is that in susceptible individuals, viral infections may trigger autoimmunity and accelerate the auto­ immune destruction of beta cells leading to type 1 diabetes (97). Many studies have focused on human enteroviruses, with some finding positive associations between enterovirus infections and risk of type 1 diabetes or
