Chapter 15: Diabetes in Youth
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, youth, type diabetes, years, age, prevalence, duration, age years, onset, youth type, mean, insulin, youth age, higher


beta cells leading to type 1 diabetes (97). Many studies have focused on human enteroviruses, with some finding positive associations between enterovirus infections and risk of type 1 diabetes or evidence that the seasonal variation seen with type 1 diabetes risk coincides with the time of enterovirus infections (96). However, prospective studies in Finland (Diabetes Prediction and Prevention [DIPP]) and Colorado (Diabetes Autoimmunity Study in the Young [DAISY]) reported opposing findings concerning the association between enterovirus infections and anti­ body titers with islet autoimmunity and type 1 diabetes: a positive association in DIPP (98), but no association in DAISY (99). Thus, the role of viral infections in the etiology of type 1 diabetes remains controversial. Although childhood immunizations have been suggested to be associated with an increased type 1 diabetes risk, large population-based studies have found no associations (100,101) or even a protec­ tive effect (102,103). Moreover, some evidence suggests that lack of exposure to viruses or other infectious agents in early life may actually increase risk of type 1 diabetes, mainly due to decreased immune stimulation. The microbial envi­ ronment has changed over the last 50 Diabetes in Youth 15–11 years; antibiotic use has increased, while exposure to enteroviruses, helminthes, and commensal bacteria has decreased (104). Consequently, the “hygiene hypoth­ esis” proposes that the decreasing early life exposure to infectious agents in west­ ernized societies has led to impairment in the maturation of the immune system, thus permitting an increased occurrence of immune-mediated disorders, such as asthma and type 1 diabetes (105)—a hypothesis that requires further testing. Early Life Diet Important changes in early life diet and feeding patterns worldwide over the last century have renewed the interest in early life nutrition as a possible explanation for the increasing incidence of type 1 diabetes. Breastfeeding and early expo­ sure to cow’s milk have been the most extensively studied, with conflicting find­ ings suggesting both a protective effect of exclusive breastfeeding, as well as little or no association (43,106). It was hypothe­ sized that early introduction of cow’s milk or other solid foods may be detrimental, rather than breastfeeding itself being protective. These studies were limited by significant between-study heterogeneity and other methodologic problems. To adequately address the effect of infant diets on risk of type 1 diabetes, the Trial to Reduce IDDM in the Genetically at Risk (TRIGR) study, a collaborative international study group of 77 clinical centers in
