Chapter 15: Diabetes in Youth
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, youth, type diabetes, years, age, prevalence, duration, age years, onset, youth type, mean, insulin, youth age, higher


infant diets on risk of type 1 diabetes, the Trial to Reduce IDDM in the Genetically at Risk (TRIGR) study, a collaborative international study group of 77 clinical centers in 15 countries, is conducting a clinical trial to address the role of breastfeeding versus cow’s milk and risk of autoimmunity and type 1 diabetes (107,108). Pilot results have suggested that weaning to a highly hydrolyzed formula decreased by ~50% the cumulative incidence of one or more diabetes-related autoantibodies up to age 10 years (108). The trial will be completed when the last recruited child turns 10 years of age in 2017. Few studies have focused on other practices of infant feeding, such as early exposure to solid foods. Although only limited research exists, positive associ­ ations between early exposure to solid foods, such as cereals or gluten-con­ taining foods, and risk of type 1 diabetes have been reported (109,110). Some researchers believe that early exposure to cereal products or other solid foods might increase an immune response, which could trigger beta cell destruction (109,110), while others hypothesize that overfeeding early in life might lead to accelerated weight gain, resulting in beta cell overload and failure in the face of an autoimmune attack (111). Finally, early life exposure to dietary gliadin, a glycoprotein implicated in the intestinal damage asso­ ciated with celiac disease, increases the risk of autoimmunity and type 1 diabetes through mechanisms involving both increased gut permeability and altered intestinal microflora (112). This novel and promising area of research is being explored in several longitudinal studies. Early Life Growth A trend toward an earlier age at diagnosis of type 1 diabetes, with stable or decreasing rates later in life (113,114,115,116), has been reported, suggesting that the increasing incidence of type 1 diabetes in youth is the result of an “acceleration” of disease onset to earlier ages rather than an increased lifetime risk (117). The accelerator (118) and the overload hypotheses (111) both propose that environmental risk factors prevalent in contemporary societies may accelerate the onset of type 1 diabetes (to younger ages) by increasing the demand for insulin production and thus over­ loading the beta cells. While the overload hypothesis has a broader perspective on the potential environmental factors in question (accelerated growth, infections, stress, and climate), the accelerator hypothesis focuses on body fatness and associated insulin resistance as the main accelerators. Indeed, the prevalence of obesity has been
