Chapter 15: Diabetes in Youth
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, youth, type diabetes, years, age, prevalence, duration, age years, onset, youth type, mean, insulin, youth age, higher


in question (accelerated growth, infections, stress, and climate), the accelerator hypothesis focuses on body fatness and associated insulin resistance as the main accelerators. Indeed, the prevalence of obesity has been increasing dramatically in Europe, the United States, and throughout the developed world over the past decades (119), and overweight is now present at increasingly younger ages (120). Prospective data from population-based studies in Europe (121) and the United States (122) have shown that children who later developed type 1 diabetes have faster growth trajectories before autoim­ munity (122) and diagnosis of diabetes (121,122) and especially in the first years of life. Some studies have demonstrated an inverse association between age at type 1 diabetes diagnosis and childhood BMI, a surrogate measure of insulin resis­ tance (123,124). SEARCH reported that a higher BMI was associated with a younger age at diagnosis with type 1 diabetes, but only in youth with substantially reduced beta cell function (123), suggesting that obesity may operate after initiation of autoimmunity, resulting in an accelerated beta cell decline that leads to an earlier type 1 diabetes diagnosis. Conversely, the Australian Baby Diab Study reported that weight gain early in life (birth to age 2 years) independently predicted the development of islet autoimmunity in a genetically at-risk population (125), an effect not seen in other studies (67). These data may be interpreted to suggest that changes in early life environmental factors, such as improved early life nutrition or overnutrition, or fewer early life infections, may lead to accelerated growth patterns in contemporary children. Accelerated growth, in turn, may overload the beta cells and/or trigger an autoim­ mune process in genetically predisposed individuals, thus resulting in an earlier presentation with type 1 diabetes. TYPE 2 DIABETES Since type 2 diabetes in youth is rela­ tively new and relatively rare, there are very limited data on genes associated with early-onset type 2 diabetes (126). By virtue of their earlier age at onset, youth with type 2 diabetes may have higher frequencies of risk alleles than those seen with adult-onset cases. Many studies show a strong family history among affected youth, with 45%–80% having at least one parent with diabetes, and 74%–100% having a first or second degree relative with type 2 diabetes (76). Therefore, genetic factors are likely to play an important role in the risk for type 2 diabetes in youth. However, family history does not always imply a
