Chapter 15: Diabetes in Youth
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, youth, type diabetes, years, age, prevalence, duration, age years, onset, youth type, mean, insulin, youth age, higher


of a mismatch between a constrained prenatal and a plentiful post­ natal environment in the pathogenesis of obesity, i.e., “thrifty” obesity pathway (147). This is likely operating in developing countries and populations undergoing rapid transition. Another developmental pathway to obesity, likely more important in Western societies, is the fetal overnutri­ tion pathway, resulting from exposure to maternal diabetes and/or obesity in utero. This pathway reflects the effects of hyper­ nutrition during fetal life and creates the conditions for the later pathophysiologic effects of an obesogenic environment (147). Both genetic and environmental factors are likely to be involved in medi­ ating these relationships. Fetal Overnutrition. Several reports have convincingly shown that exposure to maternal diabetes in utero is a signif­ icant risk factor for obesity, impaired glucose tolerance, and type 2 diabetes in youth (148). The offspring of women with diabetes during pregnancy are more obese during childhood and adolescence, as demonstrated by the longitudinal follow-up of offspring of diabetic Pima Indian women (149,150,151). The offspring of diabetic women were large at birth, and at every age before 20 years, they were heavier for height than the offspring of prediabetic or nondiabetic women. Consequently, at every age before 20 years, offspring of Pima Indian diabetic women had more type 2 diabetes than those of prediabetic and nondiabetic women (152). The higher prevalence of type 2 diabetes was only partially mediated by the earlier development of obesity in these offspring (153). Similarly, Silverman et al. (154) followed a cohort of offspring of diabetic mothers and found that by age 8 years, almost half of the offspring had a weight >90th percentile. At age 12.3 years, these offspring of diabetic mothers had a significantly higher prevalence of impaired glucose tolerance Diabetes in Youth 15–13 than an age- and sex-matched control group (19.3% vs. 2.5%), and two offspring had developed type 2 diabetes. A direct correlation was found between amniotic fluid insulin concentration at weeks 32–34 of pregnancy and obesity at ages 6 and 8 years, suggesting a possible mechanism of this excessive weight gain (155). While intrauterine exposure is often difficult to separate from genetic factors, obesity and type 2 diabetes in offspring of diabetic mothers are not solely due to genetics. To determine the role of exposure to the diabetic intrauterine environment while controlling for genetic susceptibility, mean BMI and prevalence of type 2 diabetes were compared in Pima Indian siblings age
