Chapter 15: Diabetes in Youth
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, youth, type diabetes, years, age, prevalence, duration, age years, onset, youth type, mean, insulin, youth age, higher


determine the role of exposure to the diabetic intrauterine environment while controlling for genetic susceptibility, mean BMI and prevalence of type 2 diabetes were compared in Pima Indian siblings age <20 years born before and after their mother developed diabetes (156). BMI was significantly higher (+2.6 kg/m²) in the 62 siblings born after their mothers were diagnosed with type 2 diabetes (exposed to the diabetic intrauterine environment) than in the 121 age-matched siblings born before. Similarly, within the same Pima Indian family, siblings born after the mother’s diagnosis of diabetes had over a threefold higher risk of developing diabetes at an early age than siblings born before the diagnosis of diabetes in the mother (odds ratio [OR] 3.7, p<0.02). Among Pima Indian youth, exposure to maternal diabetes and obesity in preg­ nancy accounted for most of the dramatic increase in type 2 diabetes prevalence over the previous 30 years (14). A similar finding was seen in other race/ethnicity groups (non-Hispanic white, African American, and Hispanic), where exposure to maternal diabetes and obesity together contributed to 47% of type 2 diabetes in the offspring (157). Breastfeeding. In population-based studies, breastfeeding is protective against later development of obesity and type 2 diabetes (158,159). Even as infants, bottle-fed babies have significantly higher plasma insulin levels and a prolonged insulin response to glucose (160). In Pima Indians, exclusive breastfeeding for the first 2 months of life protected against the development of type 2 diabetes in adolescence and young adulthood (OR 0.64, 95% CI 0.4–0.9) (161), which was also seen in a group of youth of diverse racial/ethnic backgrounds (162). The prevalence of breastfeeding (any duration) was lower among youth with type 2 diabetes than among controls, and thus, breastfeeding was associated with significantly lower odds of type 2 diabetes (OR 0.26, 95% CI 0.15–0.46). Thus, for offspring of preg­ nancies that carry a high risk for future obesity, early infant diet may represent an opportunity to influence long-term consequences. Of note, the Exploring Perinatal Outcomes among Children (EPOCH) study in Colorado demon­ strated that offspring who were exposed to maternal gestational diabetes and were breastfed for ≥6 months had lower overall and central adiposity measures at an average age of 10 years compared to those breastfed for <6 months (163). Taken together, these data suggest that breastfeeding may also attenuate the increased risk of type 2 diabetes associated with in utero overnutrition, a hypothesis
