Chapter 15: Diabetes in Youth
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, youth, type diabetes, years, age, prevalence, duration, age years, onset, youth type, mean, insulin, youth age, higher


in glycemia with multiple daily insulin injections were at least partially responsible (194). Similarly, the EDC, which followed 906 youth-onset type 1 diabetes participants for up to 30 years, reported a decline in diabetic retinopathy prevalence at 20 years of diabetes dura­ tion for cohorts diagnosed in 1975–1980 (26.5%) compared to those diagnosed in 1965–1969 (38%) (196). Similar findings of reduced diabetic retinopathy prevalence in cohorts diagnosed at later times have been reported from Europe (197) and Australia (198,199), after matching on age of onset and diabetes duration. A much higher proportion of youth were on more intensive insulin regimens in later years, which likely contributed to the decline in diabetic retinopathy prevalence (199). Significant reductions in diabetic reti­ nopathy occurrence and progression were shown in adolescent participants in the intensive insulin therapy group of the landmark DCCT and the follow-up Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications (EDIC) study compared to those in the conventional treatment group (174,200,201). The adolescents in the intensive group in the DCCT/EDIC had significant reductions in diabetic retinopathy progression at the end of the DCCT, as well as after 4 years of follow-up in the EDIC (200). However, after 10 years of follow-up in the EDIC (201), the risk differential was reduced among adolescents (32%, p=0.134), whereas it was maintained in adult participants (56%, p<0.0001). In addition, the prevalence of a further three-step progression in EDIC was the same at 10 years of follow-up for adolescents in both treatment groups, while still reduced in adults. In the inten­ sive group, 93% of the observed difference in further diabetic retinopathy progression between adolescents and adults was explained by the mean A1c differences (higher in adolescents) in the DCCT time period. This finding indicates that lower A1c during the intensive time period is an important determinant of the long-term durability of its benefits. Thus, early and sustained glycemic control is crucial in reducing diabetic retinopathy progression among youth with type 1 diabetes. The 18-year DCCT follow-up now shows that the cumulative incidence of multiple retinopathy outcomes remains lower in the intensively treated group; however, the year-to-year incidence is now similar between the two groups, owing in large part to a reduction in risk in the former conventional treatment group (202). Given the “metabolic memory” of lower A1c resulting in reduced retinopathy (and other microvascular complications) several years later, the long-term retinop­ athy risks identified in multiple studies
