Chapter 15: Diabetes in Youth
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, youth, type diabetes, years, age, prevalence, duration, age years, onset, youth type, mean, insulin, youth age, higher


follow-up of 3.9 years; it was higher in those with higher A1c, but not different by treatment arm, sex, or race/ethnicity (235). A positive result for microalbuminuria required two of three ACRs ≥30 µg/mg to be positive over a minimum of 3 months— criteria rarely used in observational studies. Thus, studies using only a single ACR will likely show higher prevalence. Taken together, these data suggest that the risk of nephropathy is substantially higher in youth with type 2 diabetes versus type 1 diabetes at similar duration. Similar findings were reported by studies outside North America. Japanese and Korean youth with type 2 diabetes onset at age <30 years had almost twice the prevalence of proteinuria at each dura­ tion of follow-up compared with type 1 diabetic youth (236). In a study in New South Wales, Australia, the prevalence of microalbuminuria was 28% in type 2 diabetic and 6% in type 1 diabetic youth (211). How much of these differences by type of diabetes can be explained by differences in known risk factors remains to be elucidated. Some of the differences may be explained by cardiovascular, inflammatory, and insulin resistance related factors (220), which have not been explored in most studies. One known risk factor for diabetic nephropathy is exposure to maternal diabetes in utero. Among the Pima Indians, offspring of mothers who were diabetic during pregnancy had significantly higher rates of proteinuria (231) and ESRD (233) many years later than offspring of normal or prediabetic mothers. Among Manitoba youth with type 2 diabetes, 16% had mothers with pregestational diabetes compared with only 2.7% of youth with type 1 diabetes (221). Thus, maternal diabetes may be responsible not only for Diabetes in Youth 15–25 increasing the risk of type 2 diabetes in youth, but also for the increased risk of nephropathy in youth with type 2 diabetes due to the earlier onset of diabetes in those with in utero exposure. Neuropathy The topic of diabetic neuropathies is complex due to the diverse clinical manifestations and to difficulties in measurement methods (237,238). This section focuses on chronic distal symmetric polyneuropathy (i.e., diabetic peripheral neuropathy [DPN]) and cardiac autonomic neuropathy (CAN) in youth with type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Data on neuropathy in North American youth are summarized in Table 15.4. Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathy. DPN is usually diagnosed using a history of altered sensation in the feet (e.g., burning, tingling, numbness)
