Chapter 15: Diabetes in Youth
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, youth, type diabetes, years, age, prevalence, duration, age years, onset, youth type, mean, insulin, youth age, higher


neuropathy in North American youth are summarized in Table 15.4. Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathy. DPN is usually diagnosed using a history of altered sensation in the feet (e.g., burning, tingling, numbness) and a clinical exam­ ination that includes altered pain and light touch sensation, decreased vibration detection in the foot (either a tuning fork or calibrated vibration tester), and decreased deep tendon reflexes at ankle and/or knee. The examination includes a Semmes-Weinstein 10 g monofilament for standardized light touch and a stan­ dardized symptoms questionnaire and grading (239). Type 1 Diabetes. The limited information available on the prevalence of DPN among youth with type 1 diabetes in North America is shown in Table 15.4. Studies are difficult to summarize due to substan­ tial differences in measurement methods; however, it is clear that abnormalities are prevalent after relatively short diabetes duration (6–8 years), if methods are sensitive (240,241). Nelson et al. found an abnormal peripheral clinical exam among 36% of type 1 diabetic youth at a mean age of only 14 years with mean duration of 8 years (241). Among Pittsburgh youth with duration of type 1 diabetes <10 years, no DPN was found using the fairly strin­ gent clinical (DCCT) definition, but with increased duration, the prevalence of DPN reached 58% in those age ≥30 years (242). DPN prevalence was associated with higher A1c level, lower high-density lipo­ protein (HDL) cholesterol, and smoking. In the long-term follow-up of this cohort, a decreasing prevalence of DPN among persons diagnosed in later cohorts has been shown (196). In contrast to North America, numerous large clinic- and population-based studies of DPN have been conducted in Europe. The EURODIAB IDDM Complications Study reported a baseline prevalence of DPN of 28% at a mean diabetes dura­ tion of 15 years among persons with type 1 diabetes age of onset <36 years and subsequently reported a cumula­ tive incidence of 23.5% over 7 years of follow-up in those free of neuropathy at baseline. A similar DIAMOND DIACOMP study of youth with type 1 diabetes age of onset <15 years and a mean duration of 13 years found 5.3% prevalence on exam at age 5–14 years and 28.9% at age 15–24 years (243). Studies in Australia found a prevalence of abnormal thermal and vibration tests in 16% after only 4 years of duration, though most were not symptomatic (244). Eppens et al. found a DPN prevalence of 27%
