Chapter 15: Diabetes in Youth
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, youth, type diabetes, years, age, prevalence, duration, age years, onset, youth type, mean, insulin, youth age, higher


only 12% had been treated (285), similar to that seen in Germany (287). Sellers et al. reported on 99 youth with type 2 diabetes from Winnipeg, 95% of whom were First Nation (aboriginal) youth (286). Elevated systolic blood pressure was seen in 13% of cases, but only 6% had elevated diastolic blood pressure. Similar to the SEARCH findings, Australian youth with type 2 diabetes and only 1.3 years of diabetes duration had a hypertension prevalence of 36% compared to 16% in type 1 diabetes in the same clinic (211). In another Australian center, the preva­ lence of antihypertensive treatment after 11.6 years of duration for youth with type 2 diabetes was 49.3% but was only 24.6% among youth with type 1 diabetes and 14.7 years of duration (248). Given the high levels of obesity in most youth with type 2 diabetes, some of the detected hypertension may have preceded the development of diabetes. Among adults with type 2 diabetes, the United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) has shown reductions in risk of 24% in diabetes-related endpoints, 32% in deaths related to diabetes, 44% in strokes, and 37% in microvascular endpoints in the group assigned to tight blood pressure control compared with that assigned to less tight control (288). There are no long-term trials of hypertension control in youth with diabetes followed into adulthood, which need to be conducted. Given evidence of early target organ damage in children and adolescents with diabetes (see the section Subclinical Cardiovascular Disease), it is prudent to carefully monitor and initiate treatment of hypertension in youth (283) to likely reduce cardiovas­ cular endpoints later in life. Dyslipidemia Various lipid fractions are increasingly measured in youth (289), given that lipids track from youth into adulthood (262) and because of the known onset of fatty streaks and early plaques in arteries of even young children (290). These lipid fractions include total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, very-low- density lipoprotein (VLDL) cholesterol, triglycerides, Apo B (a marker of higher cardiovascular risk in adults), as well as the density of LDL cholesterol (with small dense LDL cholesterol conferring higher risk) and oxidized lipoprotein fractions. Specific dyslipidemias do not appear to exist in type 1 diabetes, especially in youth, where most studies have found few differences compared with controls (291). However, among youth with type 2 diabetes, patterns typically seen in adults with type 2 diabetes (low HDL cholesterol, high triglycerides,
