Chapter 15: Diabetes in Youth
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, youth, type diabetes, years, age, prevalence, duration, age years, onset, youth type, mean, insulin, youth age, higher


Conversions. A1c, glycosylated hemoglobin; AIx, augmentation index (stiffness); Apo B, apolipoprotein B; BMI, body mass index; BrachD, brachial artery distensibility; CAC, coronary artery calcification; CACTI, Coronary Calcification in Type 1 Diabetes study; CAD, coronary artery disease; cIMT, carotid intima-media thickness; CVD, cardiovascular disease; DBP, diastolic blood pressure; EBCT, electron beam computed tomography; EDC, Epidemiology of Diabetes Complications study; FMD, flow-mediated artery dilation; HDL, high-density lipoprotein; LDL, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol; OR, odds ratio; PWV, pulse wave velocity (stiffness); SBP, systolic blood pressure; SEARCH, SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth study; T1, type 1 diabetes; T2, type 2 diabetes; TG, triglyceride. SOURCE: References are listed within the table. CVD study measured 402 type 1 diabetic youth and 206 matched controls from Colorado and Ohio and found that carotid bulb IMT was significantly thicker than that in controls, with no differences at other locations (common, internal). This difference remained after adjustment for cardiovascular risk factors but was removed after adjustment for A1c (328). A review of 15 cIMT and type 1 diabetes studies (including one shown in Table 15.6 (326)) found that in eight of them, significant thickening of cIMT was seen in cases compared with controls (325). It is possible that some of the negative studies did not image the bulb, one of the earliest sites of thickening (328). The DCCT/EDIC study included cIMT measures at the start of EDIC follow-up in 1994–1996 and again in 1998–2000 (329). Among persons in the intensive group, cIMT progression in EDIC years 1–6 was significantly lower than among the conventional group (329,330), but change in years 6–12 was similar between the treatment groups (330). This finding indicates that A1c is clearly related to cIMT, but perhaps on a time course different than for other diabetes complica­ tions, most of which remained significantly lower in the intensive group over the full follow-up period. A German study showed that cIMT progression over 4 years was predicted by baseline BMI, A1c level, and systolic blood pressure (331). Type 2 Diabetes. The largest studies conducted of cIMT to date in youth with type 2 diabetes are from Cincinnati, Ohio (332,333). Youth with type 2 diabetes had significantly thicker cIMT for all segments than lean controls and a thicker bulb and common carotid than obese nondiabetic controls (332). Older age, male sex, and higher A1c were all associated with thicker cIMT (334). In addition, higher diastolic blood pressure and LDL cholesterol
