Chapter 15: Diabetes in Youth
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, youth, type diabetes, years, age, prevalence, duration, age years, onset, youth type, mean, insulin, youth age, higher


common carotid than obese nondiabetic controls (332). Older age, male sex, and higher A1c were all associated with thicker cIMT (334). In addition, higher diastolic blood pressure and LDL cholesterol were associated with thicker internal cIMT. In a study by Gungor et al. of 20 youth with type 2 diabetes compared with lean and obese nondiabetic controls, no differences in cIMT were seen (322), though the small sample size may have resulted in a type 2 error. Diabetes of both types commonly increases arterial wall thickness only a few years after diabetes onset and many years before clinical symptoms and events occur. Comparisons across types of diabetes are possible only in the Ohio studies, which used the same methods and laboratory. In those studies, youth with type 2 diabetes appear to have thicker arteries (332) than those with type 1 diabetes (328), but this comparison has not been directly analyzed to remove potential confounding. Coronary Artery Calcification Evaluation of the amount of calcium located in the coronary arteries measured by electron beam tomography or multi- slice detector computed tomography has become a well-established tool for predicting cardiovascular event risk in adults (335), independent of other measured risk factors (336). Because CAC prevalence is low in youth and rises sharply with age, few studies of young persons with short duration diabetes have been conducted. Type 1 Diabetes. In a clinic-based study of 101 youth with type 1 diabetes age 17–29 years, with a minimum of 5 years of duration, Starkman et al. found the prevalence of CAC scores >0 to be 10.9% and higher in men than women. Smokers had a fivefold higher prevalence, but no association was seen with A1c, diabetes duration, BMI, or microalbuminuria, though the sample size was small (337). The Pittsburgh EDC study of progression of CAC scores found that traditional CVD risk factors and increasing BMI were associated with increasing CAC scores, but A1c was also not associated with progression (338). In Denver, Colorado, 15–38 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition the Coronary Artery Calcification in Type 1 Diabetes (CACTI) study included >500 youth-onset type 1 diabetic persons with current age 20–55 years and a mean diabetes duration of 23 years (339). CAC prevalence was 2.1 times higher in men with type 1 diabetes than controls and 3.6 times higher among women, mirroring the excess cardiovascular risk among women with diabetes. The youngest group examined (age 20–29
