Chapter 15: Diabetes in Youth
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, youth, type diabetes, years, age, prevalence, duration, age years, onset, youth type, mean, insulin, youth age, higher


21st Century, several decades of increased risk and younger age at onset have occurred for both type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Projections indicate that these trends will worsen if the causes of diabetes are not rapidly identified and preventive strategies begun (356). Such strategies will likely require both individual, clinically based approaches and a much broader population initiative, targeting social and environmental factors that likely operate very early in life to alter energy balance, program the immune system, or promote beta cell failure. The changing disease pattern also means that young people with either type 1 or type 2 diabetes will have a longer duration of exposure to an altered metabolic milieu, which may substantially increase the risk of chronic microvascular and macro- vascular complications. The development of elevated levels of cardiovascular risk factors and preclinical cardiovascular disease among youth with diabetes and the potential future impact on morbidity and mortality pose special challenges. Growing evidence suggests an increased risk of diabetes-related chronic complica­ tions in young people with type 2 diabetes compared with those with type 1 diabetes. However, large-scale translational and epidemiologic studies in youth with diabetes are lacking, primarily due to the lack of common standardized protocols and validated surrogate endpoints that can be compared across studies. The increasing number of young people with diabetes, coupled with the need for high-quality disease management, will further increase the already high cost of diabetes and may have a devastating effect on health care costs (356,357). Increasing understanding of the multifac­ torial etiology of childhood diabetes and its complications will hopefully translate into improved quality of life for youth with diabetes and will ultimately lead to the successful prevention of diabetes. The challenges are large for science and public health, but the cost of not proceeding urgently will be truly immense. 15–42 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS A1c . . . . . . . . . .glycosylated hemoglobin ACR . . . . . . . . .albumin:creatinine ratio ADA . . . . . . . . .American Diabetes Association AER . . . . . . . . .albumin excretion rate Apo B . . . . . . . .apolipoprotein B BMI . . . . . . . . .body mass index CAC . . . . . . . . .coronary artery calcification CACTI . . . . . .
