Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


40 mg/dl ( 2 ). Another 25% of glucose uptake occurs in the splanchnic area (liver plus gastrointestinal tissues) and is also insulin independent ( 3 ). The remaining 25% of glucose metabolism in the post-absorptive state takes place in insulin-dependent tissues, primarily muscle ( 4 , 5 ). Basal glucose utilization averages ~2.0 mg/kg/min and is precisely matched by the rate of endogenous glucose production ( 1 , 3 - 7 ). Approximately 85% of endogenous glucose production is derived from the liver, and the remaining amount is produced by the kidney ( 1 , 8 , 9 ). Approximately one-half of basal hepatic glucose production is derived from glycogenolysis and one-half from gluconeogenesis ( 9 , 10 ). Following glucose ingestion, the balance between endogenous glucose production and tissue glucose uptake is disrupted. The increase in plasma glucose concentration stimulates insulin release from the pancreatic beta cells, and the resultant hyperinsulinemia and hyperglycemia serve (i) to stimulate glucose uptake by splanchnic (liver and gut) and peripheral (primarily muscle) tissues and (ii) to suppress endogenous glucose production ( 1 , 3 - 7 , 11 - 14 ). Hyperglycemia, in the absence of hyperinsulinemia, exerts its own independent effect to stimulate muscle glucose uptake and to suppress endogenous glucose production in a dose dependent fashion ( 14 - 16 ). The majority (~80-85%) of glucose that is taken up by peripheral tissues is disposed of in muscle ( 1 , 3 - 7 , 11 - 14 ), with only a small amount (~4-5%) being metabolized by adipocytes ( 17 ). Although fat tissue is responsible for only a fraction of total body glucose disposal, it plays a very important role in the maintenance of total body glucose homeostasis (see below). Insulin is a potent inhibitor of lipolysis and even small increments in the plasma insulin concentration exerts a potent anti-lipolytic effect, leading to a marked reduction in the plasma free fatty acid level ( 18 ). The decline in plasma FFA concentration results in increased glucose uptake in muscle ( 19 ) and contributes to the inhibition of endogenous glucose production ( 16 , 20 ). Thus, changes in the plasma FFA concentration in response to increased plasma levels of insulin and glucose play an important role in the maintenance of normal glucose homeostasis ( 21 , 22 ). SITES OF INSULIN RESISTANCE IN TYPE 2 DIABETES (T2DM)
