Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


levels of insulin and glucose play an important role in the maintenance of normal glucose homeostasis ( 21 , 22 ). SITES OF INSULIN RESISTANCE IN TYPE 2 DIABETES (T2DM) The maintenance of whole-body glucose homeostasis is dependent upon a normal insulin secretory response by the pancreatic beta cells and normal tissue sensitivity to the independent effects of hyperinsulinemia and hyperglycemia (i.e., the mass-action effect of glucose) to augment glucose uptake. In turn, the combined effects of insulin and hyperglycemia to promote glucose disposal are dependent on three tightly coupled mechanisms : (i) suppression of endogenous (primarily hepatic) glucose production; (ii) stimulation of glucose uptake by the splanchnic (hepatic plus gastrointestinal) tissues; and (iii) stimulation of glucose uptake by peripheral tissues, primarily muscle ( 1 , 4 , 14 ). Muscle glucose uptake is regulated by flux through two major metabolic pathways: glycolysis (of which ~90% represents glucose oxidation) and glycogen synthesis. Hepatic Glucose Production In the overnight fasted state, the liver of healthy subjects produces glucose at the rate of ~1.8-2.0 mg.kg -1 .min -1 ( 1 , 3 , 4 , 6 , 18 , 54 ). This glucose flux is essential to meet the needs of the brain and other neural tissues, which utilize glucose at a constant rate of ~1-1.2 mg.kg -1 .min -1 ( 2 , 169 ). Brain glucose uptake accounts for ~50-60% of glucose disposal during the post-absorptive state and this uptake is insulin independent. Therefore, brain glucose uptake occurs at the same rate during absorptive and post-absorptive periods and is not altered in T2DM ( 214 ). Following glucose ingestion, insulin is secreted into the portal vein and glucagon release is inhibited, and this new hormonal ratio is carried to the liver, where it suppresses hepatic glucose output. If the liver does not perceive this insulin signal and continues to produce glucose, there will be two superimposed inputs of glucose into the body, one from the liver and another from the gastrointestinal tract and marked hyperglycemia will ensue. In subjects with T2DM and mild to moderate fasting hyperglycemia (140-200 mg/dl, 7.8-11.1 mmol/L) basal endogenous glucose production [EGP] is increased by ~0.5 mg/kg/min. Consequently, during the overnight sleeping hours (i.e., 2200 h to 0800 h), the liver of a 80-kg individual with diabetes and modest fasting hyperglycemia adds an additional 35 g of glucose to the systemic circulation. The increase in basal EGP
