Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


(iii) the severity of the hepatic insulin resistance is related to the severity of the diabetic state. In T2DM with mild fasting hyperglycemia, an increment in plasma insulin concentration of 100 µU/ml causes a complete suppression of EGP. However, in diabetic subjects with more severe fasting hyperglycemia, the ability of the same plasma insulin concentration to suppress EGP is impaired ( 18 ). These results suggest that there is an acquired component of hepatic insulin resistance and that this defect becomes progressively worse as the diabetic state decompensates over time. The glucose released by the liver in the post-absorptive state can be derived from either glycogenolysis or gluconeogenesis ( 6 , 16 , 176 ). Studies employing the hepatic vein catheter technique have shown that the uptake of gluconeogenic precursors, especially lactate, is increased in subjects with T2DM ( 180 ). Consistent with this observation, radioisotope turnover studies, using lactate, alanine, and glycerol have shown that ~90% of the increase in HGP above baseline can be accounted for by accelerated gluconeogenesis ( 181 , 182 ). More recent studies employing 13 C-magnetic resonance imaging ( 183 ) and D 2 O ( 184 , 185 ) have confirmed the important contribution of accelerated gluconeogenesis to the increase in HGP. An increased rate of glutamine conversion to glucose also has been shown to contribute to the elevated rate of gluconeogenesis in subjects with T2DM ( 186 ), which may be, in part, derived from renal gluconeogenesis ( 8 ). The mechanisms responsible for the increase in hepatic gluconeogenesis include hyperglucagonemia ( 187 ), increased circulating levels of gluconeogenic precursors (lactate, alanine, glycerol) ( 181 , 188 ), increased FFA oxidation ( 18 , 162 , 189 ), enhanced sensitivity to glucagon ( 190 ) and decreased sensitivity to insulin (1,4.18,164,165). Although the majority of evidence indicates that increased gluconeogenesis is the major cause of the increase in EGP in subjects with T2DM ( 181 - 186 ), it is likely that accelerated glycogenolysis also contributes to it ( 181 , 191 ). The presence of both direct and indirect effects of insulin in suppressing EGP and release into the circulation were recently demonstrated in animals using intra-portal and systemic insulin infusions ( 430 ). The results provided evidence that, in addition to a direct action of insulin on hepatic enzymes, the inhibition of adipose tissue lipolysis represents an important mechanism by
