Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


( 430 ). The results provided evidence that, in addition to a direct action of insulin on hepatic enzymes, the inhibition of adipose tissue lipolysis represents an important mechanism by which insulin regulates the rate of gluconeogenesis. This is therefore, accomplished indirectly, by controlling the supply of free fatty acids, which are essential to the process of glucose synthesis de novo . The rate-limiting step in achieving fast and complete inhibition of adipose tissue lipolysis is the transendothelial transport of insulin across tissue capillaries. Additional data obtained during systemic infusions of free fatty acids and in experiments where adipocyte lipolytic factors were manipulated, together with observation in mice lacking hepatic Foxo1 & Akt1/2 signaling have confirmed this indirect action of insulin on gluconeogenesis ( 430 - 432 ). These findings have generated the hypothesis that in patients with T2DM, insulin may be transported slowly across tissue capillaries, which delays the inhibition of lipolysis with subsequent impairment of the suppression of EGP. On the other hand, animal studies ( 431 ), where insulin was infused directly into the portal vein, mimicking normal insulin secretory pattern, showed that there is complete and swift inhibition of EGP. These observations were confirmed when plasma glucagon and fatty acid levels were clamped at basal values, and in conditions where brain insulin action was blocked. The authors concluded that the direct hepatic effect of insulin in the regulation of EGP is more relevant and that, the indirect effect is redundant in physiological conditions. Acute insulin suppression of endogenous gluconeogenesis is largely an indirect effect mediated by the inhibition of adipose tissue lipolysis, which reduces delivery of non-esterified fatty acids and glycerol to the liver. The major direct effect of insulin on hepatic glucose metabolism is the regulation of glycogen metabolism. Hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia are required to maximally stimulate net hepatic glycogenesis. In T2DM, lipid-induced hepatic insulin resistance, high rates of adipose tissue lipolysis and hyperglucagonemia impair glucose metabolism in the liver ( 432 ). Because of the inaccessibility of the liver in man, it has been difficult to assess the role of key enzymes involved in the regulation of gluconeogenesis (pyruvate carboxylase, phosphoenol- pyruvate carboxykinase), glycogenolysis (glycogen phosphorylase), and net hepatic glucose output (glucokinase, glucose-6-phosphatase). However, considerable evidence from animal models of T2DM and some evidence in humans have implicated increased activity of PEPCK and G-6-Pase in the accelerated rate of hepatic glucose production ( 192
