Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


considerable evidence from animal models of T2DM and some evidence in humans have implicated increased activity of PEPCK and G-6-Pase in the accelerated rate of hepatic glucose production ( 192 - 194 ). Recently, changes in hypothalamic insulin signaling have been shown to affect endogenous glucose production. The activation of the insulin receptor in the third cerebral ventricle is capable of suppressing glucose production, independent of plasma insulin or other counter-regulatory hormones. Conversely, central antagonism to insulin signaling impairs the ability of circulating insulin to inhibit glucose production (6a). These observations have raised the possibility that hypothalamic insulin resistance contributes to hyperglycemia in T2DM. The Role of the Kidney The kidney also has been shown to produce glucose and estimates of the renal contribution to total endogenous glucose production have varied from 5% to 20% ( 8 , 9 , 195 ). These varying estimates of the contribution of renal gluconeogenesis to total glucose production are largely related to the methodology employed to measure glucose production by the kidney ( 196 ). One unconfirmed study suggests that the rate of renal gluconeogenesis is increased in T2DM with fasting hyperglycemia ( 197 ). Arguing against this possibility are studies employing the hepatic vein catheter technique which have shown that all of the increase in total body EGP (measured with 3- 3 H-glucose) in T2DM can be accounted for by increased hepatic glucose output (measured by the hepatic vein catheter technique) ( 3 ). A more relevant aspect on the role of the kidney in the dysregulation of glucose homeostasis in diabetes is the maintenance of hyperglycemia, which results from a maladaptive enhancement of the tubular glucose transport threshold ( 9a , 9b ). It has been hypothesized that in response to an elevated glucose load presented to the proximal tubular lumen, the sodium glucose co-transporter system increases its reabsorptive capacity by upregulating the SGLT-2 expression and kinetics ( 9c ). However, more recent studies conducted in humans who underwent unilateral nephrectomy were not able to confirm the over-expression of either SGLT-2 or SGLT-1 proteins in proximal renal tubules of patients with T2DM compared to non-diabetic controls ( 433 , 434 ). The augmented tubular glucose transport described in patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes may result from a functional enhancement of the activity of these co-transporters. The elevated renal threshold to plasma values between 220-250 mg/dl for the excretion
