Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


1 and type 2 diabetes may result from a functional enhancement of the activity of these co-transporters. The elevated renal threshold to plasma values between 220-250 mg/dl for the excretion of glucose into the urine in these patients, thus may be secondary to a sustained hyperglycemia. If this is confirmed, the maladaptive process of recycling a substantial amount of glucose back into the peripheral circulation may be attenuated with near-normoglycemia, possibly reversible. In any case, this contribution of the kidney to hyperglycemia in diabetic patients represents one additional pathogenic mechanism that has been underappreciated. Peripheral (Muscle) Glucose Uptake Muscle is the major site of glucose disposal in man ( 1 , 3 - 5 , 14 ). Under euglycemic hyperinsulinemic conditions, approximately 80% of total body glucose uptake occurs in skeletal muscle ( 1 , 3 - 5 ). Studies employing the euglycemic insulin clamp in combination with femoral artery/vein catheterization have examined the effect of insulin on leg glucose uptake in subjects with T2DM and control subjects ( 3 ). Since bone is metabolically inert with regards to carbohydrate metabolism and adipose tissue takes up less than 5% of an infused glucose load ( 17 , 198 , 199 ), muscle represents the major tissue responsible for leg glucose uptake. In response to a physiologic increase in plasma insulin concentration (~80-100 μU/ml), leg (muscle) glucose uptake increases linearly, reaching a plateau value of 10 mg/kg leg wt per minute ( 3 ). In contrast, in lean subjects with T2DM, the onset of insulin action is delayed for~40 min and the ability of the hormone to stimulate leg glucose uptake is markedly blunted, even though the study is carried out for an additional 60 min in the group with T2DMto allow insulin to more fully express its biological effects ( 3 ). During the last hour of the insulin clamp study, the rate of glucose uptake was reduced by 50% in the group with T2DM ( 3 ). These results provide conclusive evidence that the primary site of insulin resistance during euglycemic insulin clamp studies performed in subjects with T2DM resides in muscle tissue. Using the forearm and leg catheterization techniques ( 13 , 153 , 200 , 202 ), a number of investigators have demonstrated a decreased rate of insulin-mediated glucose uptake by peripheral tissues. The use of positron emission tomography (PET) scanning to quantitate leg glucose uptake in
