Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


a number of investigators have demonstrated a decreased rate of insulin-mediated glucose uptake by peripheral tissues. The use of positron emission tomography (PET) scanning to quantitate leg glucose uptake in subjects with T2DM has provided additional support for the presence of severe muscle resistance to insulin in diabetic subjects ( 203 ). Vascular and Myocardial Insulin Resistance The first and rate-limiting step in insulin-mediated glucose disposal is the transit of insulin from the plasma to the muscle. The crossing of insulin from the circulation into the muscle interstitium is governed by vascular endothelium. The transendothelial transport depends on the insulin receptor binding to the endothelial cell membrane and requires the activation of the nitric oxide synthase. The transport of insulin across the endothelial cell layer appears to involve a complex vesicular trafficking process, which is saturable. Insulin is known to promote capillary vasodilation particularly in the postprandial period to facilitate entry and distribution of fuel substrates, including glucose. Several studies sampled lymph and interstitial glucose, using dialysis techniques, have suggested that a delay in insulin transfer from the plasma to the tissue may play an important role in the development of insulin resistance ( 427 - 429 ). Thus, impairment of insulin action may be secondary to a decrease in capillary density [chronic situations] or to a defective increase in blood flow or micro-capillary recruitment [acute conditions] ( 429 ). These abnormalities have been described in obese insulin-resistant and in the skin flow response of patients with diabetes. Myocardial insulin resistance translates to abnormal intracellular signaling and reduced glucose oxidation rates in animal models of obesity ( 435 ). It adversely affects myocardial mechanical function and tolerance to ischemia and reperfusion. The heart is a dynamic organ that requires continuous energy in the form of ATP in order to meet contractile demands. This is achieved via a constant supply of blood-borne oxidizable substrates. The majority of ATP is derived from fatty acid oxidation [60-70%]. Glucose and lactate extracted from the circulation account for the remainder 30-40%. However, when blood glucose and insulin levels are elevated, such as immediately after a meal, glucose becomes the major fuel for myocardial oxidation and, it may represent up to 70% of the total substrate oxidation by cardiomyocytes. Long–chain fatty acids are taken up by the heart proportionately to circulating levels, via a passive facilitated transport. Once inside the cytosol, they are degraded into acetyl-CoA
