Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


oxidation by cardiomyocytes. Long–chain fatty acids are taken up by the heart proportionately to circulating levels, via a passive facilitated transport. Once inside the cytosol, they are degraded into acetyl-CoA moieties that enter the mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation process. The excess fatty acids are re-esterified to form diacyl- and triacyl-glycerides and, these lipid intermediates are stored in the form the myo-cellular lipid pool. Glucose enters the myocardial cells both via GLUT-1 passive and insulin-stimulated GLUT-4 active transport. These are dictated by myocardial contraction demands and circulating insulin levels. Intracellular glucose is phosphorylated and either stored as muscle glycogen or anaerobically oxidized to pyruvate. Under normal oxygen delivery, pyruvate is converted to acetyl-CoA, which enters mitochondrial oxidation. In conditions of ischemia, low oxygen forces the conversion of pyruvate into lactate ( 435 ). It is believed that myocardial insulin resistance with typical defects in glucose transport and oxidation develops, in part, because of an excess supply of fatty acids. In addition to a direct competition with glucose utilization, there is evidence that the accumulation of intracellular lipid intermediates interferes with insulin signaling. The molecular defects responsible for the insulin resistance in the cardiomyocytes are analogous to the skeletal muscle. The local generation of reactive oxygen species and other elements also participate in obstructing insulin action. Although the cellular and metabolic manifestations may be similar, the consequences of insulin resistance in the heart muscle tend to express with lower tolerance for ischemia and poor mechanical function. Consequently, patients with insulin resistance are susceptible to earlier and more severe cardiovascular complications. Splanchnic (Hepatic) Glucose Uptake In humans, it is difficult to catheterize the portal vein, and glucose disposal by the liver has not been examined directly. Using the hepatic vein catheterization technique in combination with the euglycemic insulin clamp, the contribution of the splanchnic (liver plus gastrointestinal) tissues to overall glucose homeostasis has been examined in lean subjects with T2DM with mild to moderate fasting hyperglycemia ( 3 ). In the post-absorptive state, there is a net release of glucose from the splanchnic area (i.e., negative balance) in both control and subjects with T2DM, reflecting glucose production by the liver. In response to insulin, splanchnic glucose output is promptly suppressed (reflecting the inhibition of HGP) and, by 20 min, the net glucose balance across the splanchnic region declines to zero (i.e., there was no net uptake or release) ( 3 ). After 2 h
