Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


HGP) and, by 20 min, the net glucose balance across the splanchnic region declines to zero (i.e., there was no net uptake or release) ( 3 ). After 2 h of sustained hyperinsulinemia, there is a small net uptake of glucose (~0.5 mg.kg - 1 .min -1 ) by the splanchnic area (i.e., positive balance). This uptake is virtually identical to the rate of splanchnic glucose uptake observed in the basal state, indicating that the splanchnic tissues, like the brain, are insensitive to insulin at least with respect to the stimulation of glucose uptake ( 3 , 5 , 6 , 175 ). There was no difference between diabetic and control subjects for glucose taken up by the splanchnic tissues at any time during the insulin clamp study ( 3 ). The results of these studies illustrate another important point: namely, that under conditions of euglycemic hyperinsulinemia, very little of the infused glucose is taken up by the splanchnic (and therefore hepatic) tissues ( 3 , 5 , 6 , 175 ). During the insulin clamp, the rate of whole body glucose uptake averaged 7 mg.kg -1 .min -1 and of this, only 0.5 mg.kg -1 .min -1 or 7%, was disposed of by the splanchnic region. Because the difference in insulin-mediated total body glucose uptake between the T2DM and control groups during the euglycemic insulin clamp study was 2.5 mg.kg -1 .min -1 , from a purely quantitative standpoint it is obvious that a defect in splanchnic (hepatic) glucose removal never could account for the magnitude of impairment in total body glucose uptake following intravenous glucose/insulin administration. However, after glucose ingestion, the oral route of administration and the resultant hyperglycemia conspire to enhance splanchnic (hepatic) glucose uptake ( 6 , 7 , 11 , 12 , 16 , 26 , 175 ) and, under these conditions, diminished hepatic glucose uptake has been shown to contribute to the impairment in glucose tolerance in T2DM (see discussion below) ( 6 , 204 , 205 ). Summary: Whole Body Glucose Utilization Insulin-mediated whole body glucose utilization during the euglycemic insulin clamp represents essentially skeletal muscle glucose utilization. There is a noticeable decrease in glucose taken up in the body in T2DM patients compared with non-diabetic subjects. On the other hand, net splanchnic glucose uptake, quantitated by the hepatic venous catheterization technique, is similar in both groups and averaged 0.5 mg.kg -1 .min
