Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


compared with non-diabetic subjects. On the other hand, net splanchnic glucose uptake, quantitated by the hepatic venous catheterization technique, is similar in both groups and averaged 0.5 mg.kg -1 .min -1 . Adipose tissue glucose uptake accounts for less than 5% of total glucose disposal ( 17 , 198 , 199 ). Brain glucose uptake, estimated to be 1.0-1.2 mg.kg -1 .min -1 in the post-absorptive state ( 2 , 169 , 206 ), is unaffected by hyperinsulinemia ( 169 ). Muscle glucose uptake (extrapolated from leg catheterization data) in control subjects accounts for ~75-80% of the total glucose uptake ( 1 , 3 , 4 ). In subjects with T2DM, the largest part of the impairment in insulin-mediated glucose uptake is accounted for by a defect in muscle glucose disposal. Even if adipose tissue of subjects with T2DM took up absolutely no glucose, it could, at best, explain only a small fraction of the defect in whole body glucose metabolism. Glucose Disposal during OGTT In everyday life, the gastrointestinal tract represents the normal route of glucose entry into the body. However, the assessment of tissue glucose disposal following glucose ingestion presents a challenge because of the difficulties in quantitating the rate of glucose absorption, suppression of hepatic glucose production, and organ (liver and muscle) glucose uptake. Moreover, because the plasma glucose and insulin concentrations are changing simultaneously, it is difficult to draw conclusions about insulin secretion or insulin sensitivity. To address these issues, Ferrannini, DeFronzo, and colleagues ( 7 , 11 , 12 , 205 ) administered oral glucose to healthy control subjects in combination with hepatic vein catheterization to examine splanchnic glucose metabolism. The oral glucose load and endogenous glucose pool were labeled with [1- 14 C]glucose and [3- 3 H]glucose, respectively, to quantitate total body glucose disposal (from tritiated glucose turnover) and endogenous HGP (difference between the total rate of glucose appearance, as measured with tritiated glucose, and the rate of oral glucose appearance, as measured with [1- 14 C]glucose). During the 3.5 h after glucose (68 g) ingestion: (i) 19 g, or 28%, or the oral load was taken up by splanchnic tissues; (ii) 48 g, or 72%, was disposed of by peripheral (non-splanchnic) tissues; (iii) of the 48 g taken up by peripheral tissues, the brain (an insulin-independent tissue) accounted for ~15 g (~1 mg.kg -1 .min -1 ), or 22%, of the total glucose
