Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and glucose-dependent insulinotropic peptide (GIP) can account for most of the incretin effect in normal subjects ( 4b ). Recent demonstration that in T2DM the incretin effect is impaired, diminished or absent ( 4b ) has rekindled interest in the potential role of these gastrointestinal peptides in the abnormal handling of glucose by splanchnic tissues and perhaps, in the decline in beta cell insulin secretion. When viewed in absolute terms, most studies have demonstrated that the total amount of glucose taken up by all tissues of body over the 4-hour period following the ingestion of an oral glucose load is normal ( 13 ) or slightly decreased ( 204 , 205 , 211 ). However, this occurs at the expense of postprandial hyperglycemia. Thus, the efficiency of glucose disposal, i.e., the glucose clearance (tissue glucose uptake/plasma glucose concentration), is severely reduced. It should be emphasized that it is not the absolute glucose disposal rate, but rather the increment in glucose disposal above baseline that determines the rise in plasma glucose concentration above the fasting value. Every published study ( 13 , 204 , 205 , 211 ) has demonstrated that the incremental response in whole-body glucose uptake is moderately to severely reduced in individuals with T2DM. Similar results have been reported for forearm muscle glucose uptake ( 13 , 201 , 202 , 208 , 209 ), pointing out the important contribution of diminished muscle glucose disposal to impaired oral glucose tolerance in T2DM. In summary, results of the OGTT indicate that both impaired suppression of EGP and decreased tissue (muscle) glucose uptake contribute approximately equally to the glucose intolerance of T2DM. The efficiency of the splanchnic (hepatic) tissues to take up glucose (as reflected by the splanchnic glucose clearance) also is impaired in individuals with T2DM. Summary of Insulin Resistance in T2DM Insulin resistance involving both muscle and liver are characteristic features of the glucose intolerance in individuals with T2DM. In the basal state, the liver represents a major site of insulin resistance, and this is reflected by overproduction of glucose despite the presence of both fasting hyperinsulinemia and hyperglycemia. This accelerated rate of hepatic glucose output is the primary determinant of the elevated fasting plasma glucose concentration in T2DM. Although tissue (muscle) glucose uptake in the post-absorptive state is increased when viewed in absolute terms, the efficiency with which glucose is taken up (i.e., the
