Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


weight < 120%) and obese (ideal body weight > 125%) subjects with varying degrees of glucose tolerance as follows: Group I-obese subjects (n=24) with normal glucose tolerance; Group II-obese subjects (n=23) with impaired glucose tolerance; Group III-obese subjects (n=35) with overt diabetes, subdivided into those with a hyperinsulinemic response and those with a hypoinsulinemic response during a 100-gram OGTT; Group IV-normal weight subjects with T2DM (n=26); Group V-normal weight subjects (n=25) with normal glucose tolerance. All subjects ingested 100 g of glucose to provide a measure of glucose tolerance and insulin secretion. Whole-body insulin sensitivity was quantitated with the euglycemic insulin (~100 µU/ml) clamp technique, which was performed with indirect calorimetry to quantitate rates of glucose oxidation and non-oxidative glucose disposal. The later primarily reflects glycogen synthesis ( 215 ). In normal weight subjects with T2DM, insulin-mediated whole-body glucose uptake was reduced by 40-50% and the impairment in insulin action resulted from defects in both oxidative and non-oxidative glucose metabolism ( 4 ). Obese individuals without T2DM were as insulin resistant as the normal-weight subjects with T2DM ( 4 ). Defects in both glucose oxidation and glucose storage contributed to the insulin resistance in the obese nondiabetic group. From the metabolic standpoint, therefore, obesity and T2DM closely resemble each other. Similar results concerning reduced whole-body insulin sensitivity in individuals with obesity and T2DM have been reported by other investigators ( 160 , 161 , 166 , 216 - 218 ). Despite nearly identical degrees of insulin resistance, normal-weight subjects with T2DM manifested fasting hyperglycemia and marked glucose intolerance, whereas the obese individuals without diabetes had normal or only minimally impaired oral glucose tolerance ( 4 ). This apparent paradox is explained by the plasma insulin response during the OGTT. Compared with control subjects, the obese group without diabetes secreted more than twice as much insulin, and this was sufficient to offset the insulin resistance. In contrast, in normal-weight subjects with T2DM, the pancreas, when faced with the same challenge, was unable to augment its secretion of insulin sufficiently to compensate for the insulin resistance. This imbalance between insulin supply by the beta cells and the insulin requirement by tissues resulted in a frankly diabetic state, with fasting hyperglycemia and marked glucose intolerance. The fact that plasma insulin response to the development of insulin resistance typically is increased during the natural history of T2DM does not mean that the beta cell
