Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


glucose intolerance. The fact that plasma insulin response to the development of insulin resistance typically is increased during the natural history of T2DM does not mean that the beta cell is functioning normally. To the contrary, recent studies ( 4c ) have demonstrated that the onset of beta cell failure occurs much earlier and is more severe than previously appreciated. Recognizing that simply measuring plasma insulin response to a glucose challenge does not provide a valid index of beta cell function, a series of studies were conducted in subjects with normal glucose tolerance (NGT), impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) and T2DM, using an oral glucose tolerance test to evaluate the increment in insulin secretion in response to an increment in plasma glucose. A euglycemic insulin clamp to measure insulin sensitivity was also performed to address the adjustment of the beta cell to the body’s sensitivity to insulin. Thus, the results yielded a better measure of beta cell function expressed per increment of plasma glucose and corrected for the degree of insulin resistance, the so-called disposition index [ΔI/ΔG ÷IR]. These data revealed a substantial decrease in beta cell function, most evident in individuals with IGT who had lost anywhere from 60 to 85% of the total insulin secretory capacity. When obesity and diabetes coexist in the same individual, the severity of insulin resistance is only slightly greater than that in either the normal-weight diabetic or nondiabetic obese groups ( 4 ), and the magnitude of the defects in glucose oxidation and non-oxidative glucose disposal are similar in all obese and diabetic groups. Although hyperinsulinemic and hypoinsulinemic obese diabetic subjects were equally insulin resistant, the severity of glucose intolerance is worse in the hypoinsulinemic group, and this was related entirely to the presence of severe insulin deficiency. In the obese nondiabetic subjects, tissue sensitivity to insulin is markedly reduced, but glucose tolerance remains perfectly normal because the beta cells are able to augment their insulin secretory capacity appropriately to offset the defect in insulin action. As the obese individual develops impaired intolerance, there is a further reduction in insulin-mediated glucose disposal, which is due primarily to a decrease in glycogen synthesis. However, there is only a small additional impairment in glucose tolerance, because the beta cells are able to further augment their secretion of insulin to counteract the deterioration in insulin sensitivity. The progression of the obese, glucose intolerant person to overt diabetes
