Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


the beta cells are able to further augment their secretion of insulin to counteract the deterioration in insulin sensitivity. The progression of the obese, glucose intolerant person to overt diabetes is heralded by a decline in insulin secretion without any worsening of insulin resistance. The obese diabetic has tipped over the top of Starling’s curve of the pancreas and is now on the descending portion. Even though the plasma insulin response is increased compared to nondiabetic control subjects, it is not elevated appropriately for the degree of insulin resistance and there is evidence that there is ~80% of beta cell functional loss by the time of diagnosis in diabetic subjects. The beta cell insulin response during the OGTT is best represented by the change in plasma insulin over the change in plasma glucose concentration, taking into consideration the degree of insulin resistance for each individual, the so-called Insulin Secretion /Insulin Resistance Index or Disposition Index as shown in Figure 1 below. Figure 1 - Log normalization of the relationship between 2-hour plasma glucose and Insulin Secretion/ Insulin Resistance in subjects with normal glucose tolerance (NGT), impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) and patients with type 2 diabetes (T2DM). There is a linear decline in the insulin secretory capacity with the development of the disease, such that by the time clinical diabetes with hyperglycemia become evident, the loss of beta cell secretion of insulin is below 5% of NGT controls. The natural history of T2DM described above is consistent with results in humans and monkeys published by other investigators ( 33 - 39 , 42 , 43 , 59 - 61 , 98 , 150 ). In lean subjects with a wide range of glucose tolerance, Reaven et al ( 42 ) demonstrated that the progression from normal to impaired glucose tolerance was marked by the development of severe insulin resistance, which was counterbalanced by a compensatory increase in insulin secretion. The onset of T2DM was associated with no (or only slight) further deterioration in tissue sensitivity to insulin. Rather, insulin secretion declined and the impairment in beta cell function was paralleled by a decrease in glucose tolerance. A similar sequence of events has been documented prospectively in Pima Indians ( 34 - 39 , 58 , 60 ), in Caucasians ( 1 , 4 , 41 , 42 , 44 , 47 , 59 , 162 , 219 ), Pima Indians (
