Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


39 , 58 , 60 ), in Caucasians ( 1 , 4 , 41 , 42 , 44 , 47 , 59 , 162 , 219 ), Pima Indians ( 34 - 39 , 58 , 60 , 219 ), and Pacific Islanders ( 33 , 62 , 220 ) and, is consistent with the development of T2DM in the rhesus monkeys ( 48 ). As monkeys grow older, they become obese and develop a diabetic condition closely resembling human T2DM. The earliest detectable abnormality in this primate model is a decrease in tissue sensitivity to insulin. Because of a compensatory increase in insulin secretion, the fasting plasma glucose concentration and glucose tolerance remain normal. The studies detailed above indicate that insulin resistance is an early and characteristic feature of the natural history of T2DM in high-risk populations. Overt diabetes develops only in those individuals whose beta cells are unable to appropriately augment their secretion of insulin to compensate for the defect in insulin action. It should be recognized, however, that there are well-described populations with T2DM in whom insulin sensitivity is normal at the onset of diabetes, whereas insulin secretion is severely impaired ( 81 - 83 ). How frequently this occurs in a typical patient with T2DM remains to be determined. This insulinopenic variety of diabetes appears to be more common in African Americans, elderly subjects, and in lean Caucasians. In this later group, it is important to exclude type 1 diabetes, since ~10% of Caucasians with older onset diabetes are islet cell antibody and/or GAD positive ( 220 ). Primary Hypersecretion of Insulin An alternative view to explaining the “state of insulin resistance” is the notion that primary beta cell overstimulation results in insulin hypersecretion. This leads to the development of obesity and insulin resistance, and then, to beta cell exhaustion ( 436 ). In a model that presupposes beta cell hypersecretion as the initial manifestation of beta cell dysfunction, insulin sensitivity is modulated by insulin secretion. When beta cell hypersecretion occurs, the responsiveness of insulin-sensitive tissues to insulin is downregulated and, these tissues become insulin resistant. The latter becomes necessary to maintain normal glucose tolerance, without the adverse outcome of hypoglycemia. However, considering that beta cell hypersecretion is primary and ‘fixed’, when insulin sensitivity is acutely improved, hypoglycemia would be expected to ensue. In either case, the demonstration of the existence of a feedback loop that
