Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


hypersecretion is primary and ‘fixed’, when insulin sensitivity is acutely improved, hypoglycemia would be expected to ensue. In either case, the demonstration of the existence of a feedback loop that regulates glucose metabolism has made it clear that assessment of the adequacy of beta cell function requires knowledge of both the degree of insulin sensitivity and the magnitude of the insulin response. When considering the feedback loop governing glucose metabolism, in the face of increased insulin secretion, insulin resistance should develop as a protective measure to maintain normal glucose concentrations without hypoglycemia. This is supported by observations in patients with insulinomas, in whom the risk of hypoglycemia is reduced by the downregulation of insulin action with the development of insulin resistance ( 437 ). Further support for this downregulation of insulin action comes from studies in healthy individuals with normal glucose tolerance in whom insulin resistance developed during 3–5 days of chronic physiologic hyperinsulinemia, achieved by insulin infusion balanced by glucose infusion to prevent hypoglycemia ( 438 ). Higher basal insulin levels have been documented in individuals with obesity and impaired glucose tolerance before the development of T2DM and identified as a risk factor for diabetes. However, in these studies, OGTT glucose levels were already higher in those who progressed and could be a confounder. Thus, although studies provide some support for the concept of a potential independent pathogenic role of primary hyperinsulinemia in dysglycemia a stronger, more definitive proof is still missing. Therefore, while it is clear that T2DM is a heterogeneous condition characterized by beta cell failure, whether beta cell dysfunction or primary hyperinsulinemia is the early event in the pathogenesis of dysglycemia is now up for debate. Although there is sufficient evidence in humans (and animal models) to support the principal defect as early beta cell dysfunction associated with reduced insulin secretion, it is incumbent on the proponents of the primary hyperinsulinemia hypothesis to undertake further studies to make their case more forcefully. Improved understanding of whichever mechanism underlies beta cell dysfunction should allow us to provide better preventative and therapeutic interventions for T2DM. Delayed Insulin Clearance in Diabetes The role of delayed (or decreased) insulin clearance as a contributor to insulin resistance and to the development of T2DM has been studied. Insulin availability in the systemic circulation is determined by the rate of beta cell secretion and its rate of hepatic/peripheral/renal clearance. Insulin levels modulate expression
