Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


of T2DM has been studied. Insulin availability in the systemic circulation is determined by the rate of beta cell secretion and its rate of hepatic/peripheral/renal clearance. Insulin levels modulate expression and activity of the insulin receptors in target tissues, which ultimately determines insulin action. The main site of insulin clearance is the liver that removes approximately 50% of endogenous insulin with the remainder being cleared by the kidneys and the skeletal muscle. Receptor-mediated insulin endocytosis is the primary mechanism by which insulin is removed from the circulation and inactivated. Upon binding to its receptor, the insulin-receptor complex is internalized through the formation of clathrin-coated vesicles and is delivered to the endosomes; the acidification of the endosomes then allows the dissociation of the hormone from its receptor and their sorting in different directions. Most of the internalized insulin is next targeted to lysosomes where it is degraded, whereas a smaller fraction remains intact. Both degradation products and intact insulin are segregated in recycling vesicles and released from cells. Defects in the intracellular processing of insulin have been reported in cells from insulin resistant individuals and reduced insulin clearance has been observed in individuals with IGT. More recently, it has also been demonstrated that reduced insulin clearance predicts the development of T2DM independently of confounding factors. There is evidence in animal models of fat-induced insulin resistance supporting the idea that decreased insulin clearance may serve as a compensatory mechanism to alleviate beta cell stress from excessive demand in these conditions of insulin resistance ( 439 ). The extent to which delayed insulin clearance is responsible for the advancement of insulin resistance and its role in the pathogenesis of T2DM remains unknown. Nutrient-Induced Stress on Insulin Secretion There is growing support to the theory that an excess of calorigenic nutrients ingested over time presents the pancreatic islet beta cells with an overwhelming burden, which might lead to toxic hormonal and metabolic adaptations. It is well recognized that the short-term effects of glucose, lipids, and amino acids perfusing the beta cells in the endocrine pancreas include the stimulation of insulin biosynthesis and secretion. Excessive exposure to these nutrients is believed to overstimulate the beta cells with a constant and uninterrupted demand for insulin release and, possibly induce changes in tissue insulin sensitivity. Chronically, abundant nutritional intake will trigger augmented insulin secretion and insulin resistance, both of which have been shown to contribute to the
