Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


and, possibly induce changes in tissue insulin sensitivity. Chronically, abundant nutritional intake will trigger augmented insulin secretion and insulin resistance, both of which have been shown to contribute to the pathogenesis of T2DM. Eventually, there is altered glucose sensing and depletion of insulin stores. The de-differentiation, with beta cell death that follows is likely to play a role in the progression of the disease. Thus, the traditional concepts of “glucotoxicity” and lipotoxicity”, which defines the process of beta cell deterioration in response to chronic elevation of glucose and lipids in the pericellular milieu, has now been expanded to encompass all nutrients [‘nutri-toxicity”]. The biochemical mechanisms underlying beta cell adaptation and failure associated with “nutri-toxicity” are not entirely clear but appear to be related to oxidative stress. Various pathways in the cytosol, endoplasmic reticulum [ER] and mitochondria are involved, which tend to affect the insulin secretory capacity of the beta cell. In conditions of mild-to-moderate “nutri-stress”, such as in overweight/obesity, there is exaggerated basal and nutrient stimulated insulin secretion. Slightly elevated blood glucose concentration, hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance become progressively more evident. Obesity with beta cell failure and T2DM result when there is more advanced and prolonged nutri-stress”. The metabolic machinery of the beta cell is overwhelmed and, there is mitochondrial and ER dysfunction, which result in severe oxidative stress. As a consequence, insulin synthesis and secretion become impaired and there is intra- cellular accumulation of toxic metabolites with beta cell de-differentiation and death ( 440 ). ROLE OF THE ADIPOCYTE IN THE PATHOGENESIS OF T2DM The majority (>80%) of people with T2DM in the US are overweight ( 221 ). Both lean and especially obese people with T2DM are characterized by day-long elevations in the plasma free fatty acid concentration, which fail to suppress normally following ingestion of a mixed meal or oral glucose load ( 222 ). Free fatty acids (FFA) are stored as triglycerides in adipocytes and serve as an important energy source during conditions of fasting. Insulin is a potent inhibitor of lipolysis and restrains the release of FFA from the adipocyte by inhibiting the enzyme hormone sensitive lipase. In patients with T2DM the ability of insulin to inhibit lipolysis (as reflected by impaired suppression of radioactive palmitate turnover) and reduce the plasma FFA concentration is markedly reduced ( 17 ). It is now recognized that chronically elevated plasma FFA concentrations can lead to insulin resistance in
