Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


palmitate turnover) and reduce the plasma FFA concentration is markedly reduced ( 17 ). It is now recognized that chronically elevated plasma FFA concentrations can lead to insulin resistance in muscle and liver ( 1 , 4 , 19 , 21 , 22 , 51 , 162 , 223 , 224 ) and impair insulin secretion ( 22 , 225 , 226 ). Thus, elevated plasma FFA levels can cause/aggravate three major pathogenic disturbances that are responsible for impaired glucose homeostasis in individuals with T2DM and the “triumvirate” (muscle, liver, beta cell) was joined by the “fourth musketeer” ( 227 ) to form the “disharmonious quartet”. In addition to FFA that circulate in plasma in increased amounts, individuals with T2DM and obese individuals without T2DM have increased stores of triglycerides in muscle ( 228 , 229 ) and liver ( 230 , 231 ) and the increased fat content correlates closely with the presence of insulin resistance in these tissues. Triglycerides in liver and muscle are in a state of constant turnover and the metabolites (i.e., fatty acyl CoAs) of intracellular FFAs have been shown to impair insulin action in both liver and muscle ( 1 , 4 , 92 ). This sequence of events has been referred to as “lipotoxicity” ( 1 , 4 , 22 , 93 ). Evidence also has accumulated to implicate “lipotoxicity” as an important cause of beta cell dysfunction ( 22 , 93 ) (see earlier discussion). Adipocyte Inflammation and Insulin Resistance Increased risk of developing T2DM is found in patients who have chronic, low-grade adipocyte inflammation and who are also insulin resistant ( 441 ). The mechanisms of adipose tissue inflammation and the related insulin-resistant state are complex. Visceral adiposity is known to be highly active in releasing numerous inflammatory cytokines [Adipokines] that are strongly implicated in the genesis of tissue insulin resistance and T2DM. Adipokines provide an important link between obesity and insulin resistance IR. Adiponectin is a unique adipokine that is inversely related to the metabolic syndrome, T2DM, and atherosclerosis. Adiponectin increases fatty acid oxidation while reducing glucose production in liver, and ablation of the adiponectin gene in mice induces insulin resistance and T2DM. Adiponectin is also anti-inflammatory; it suppresses tumor necrosis factor (TNF) actions in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and inhibits nuclear factor kappa-beta [NFκB and monocyte adhesion to endothelial cells. Human resistin is an adipokine secreted by infiltrating inflammatory
