Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


necrosis factor (TNF) actions in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and inhibits nuclear factor kappa-beta [NFκB and monocyte adhesion to endothelial cells. Human resistin is an adipokine secreted by infiltrating inflammatory cells in human adiposity and can stimulate synthesis and secretion of other cytokines in adipocytes and endothelial cells. Leptin, a well-known adipokine, normally functions centrally to suppress appetite, but most obese patients are leptin resistant and have increased circulating leptin. In obesity, hyperleptinemia contributes to inflammation through modulation of T-cell and monocyte functions. A role for retinol-binding protein 4 [RBP-4], a more recently described adipokine has been proposed to be linked to inflammation. Visfatin is a novel adipokine that is increased in obesity, is pro-inflammatory, and has an insulin-mimetic effect via binding to the insulin receptor. A member of the lipocalin family, lipocalin-2, also known as neutrophil gelatinase–associated lipocalin, modulates inflammation and is another adipokine that is elevated in the adipose tissue of obese mouse models and in the plasma of obese and insulin-resistant humans. In vitro studies suggest that lipocalin-2 induces insulin resistance in adipocytes and hepatocytes. The plasma level of another member of the lipocalin family, lipocalin-type prostaglandin D synthase, serves as a biomarker of coronary atherosclerosis. Thus, multiple adipose-secreted factors that are capable of impairing the cellular action of insulin have been suggested to be involved in the development of insulin resistance and facilitate the development of T2DM. It should be recognized that nutritional fatty acids can modulate the inflammatory response, particularly via NFκB activity, and promote insulin resistance. Furthermore, inflammatory modulation of adipocyte differentiation increases free fatty acid release. The mechanisms of free fatty acid-associated insulin resistance include protein kinase C (PKC) activation, endoplasmic reticulum stress, and increased oxidative burden. Free fatty acids also inhibit insulin receptor substrates [IRSs] and induce insulin resistance in skeletal muscle and liver. Increased fatty acid flux from adipose tissue to liver causes hepatic insulin resistance by increasing gluconeogenesis, glycogenolysis, and glucose-6-phosphatase expression and activity, and by enhancing lipogenesis and triglyceride synthesis attributable to activation of the transcription factor sterol-CoA regulatory element binding protein. Finally, free fatty acids cause endothelial insulin resistance and damage by impairing insulin and nitric oxide–dependent signaling, thus contributing to the vascular injury observed in adiposity. The initial insult in obese individuals that triggers inflammation and systemic insulin resistance may occur through recruitment of macrophages and innate immune antigen activation of inflammatory receptors in the membrane. This
