Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


initial insult in obese individuals that triggers inflammation and systemic insulin resistance may occur through recruitment of macrophages and innate immune antigen activation of inflammatory receptors in the membrane. This can be perpetuated with secretion of chemokines, retention of macrophages in adipose, and secretion of adipokines. The inflammatory milieu induces adipocyte inflammatory cascades, such as the NFκB pathway, via activation of various kinases, and this modulates adipocyte transcription factors, attenuates insulin signaling, and increases the release of pro-inflammatory adipokines and free fatty acids. Inflammatory attenuation of adipocyte differentiation further exacerbates adipose dysfunction. These paracrine and endocrine adipose inflammatory events induce a systemic inflammatory and insulin-resistant state, favoring the development of T2DM. FFA and Muscle Glucose Metabolism Four decades ago, Randle ( 232 ) proposed that increased FFA oxidation restrains glucose oxidation in muscle by altering the redox potential of the cell and by inhibiting key glycolytic enzymes. The excessive FFA oxidation: (i) leads to the intracellular accumulation of acetyl CoA, a potent inhibitor of pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH), (ii) increases the NADH/NAD ratio, causing a slowing of the Krebs cycle, and (iii) results in the accumulation of citrate, a powerful inhibitor of phosphofructokinase (PFK). Inhibition of PFK leads to the accumulation of glucose-6-phosphate (G-6-P) which in turn inhibits hexokinase II. The block in glucose phosphorylation causes a buildup of intracellular free glucose which restrains glucose transport into the cell via the GLUT4 transporter. The resultant decrease in glucose transport was postulated to account for the impairment in glycogen synthesis, although a direct inhibitory effect of fatty acyl Co-As on glycogen synthase also has been demonstrated ( 233 ). This sequence of events via which accelerated plasma FFA oxidation inhibits muscle glucose transport, glucose oxidation, and glycogen synthesis is referred to as the “Randle Cycle” ( 232 ). It should be noted that the same scenario would ensue if the FFA were derived from triglycerides stored in muscle ( 228 , 229 ) or from plasma ( 222 ). Felber and coworkers ( 59 , 159 , 162 , 234 , 235 ) were amongst the first to demonstrate that in obese non-diabetic and diabetic humans, basal plasma FFA levels and lipid oxidation (measured by indirect calorimetry) are increased and fail to suppress normally after glucose ingestion. The elevated basal rate of lipid oxidation was strongly correlated with a decreased basal rate of glucose oxidation, as well as with reduced rates of
