Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


concentrations) inhibition of the early steps of glucose metabolism must be invoked to explain the defects in glucose transport, glucose phosphorylation and glycogen synthesis. Studies in humans and animals have shown a strong inverse correlation between insulin- stimulated glucose metabolism and increased intramuscular lipid pools, including triglyceride ( 240 - 242 ), diacyl-glycerol (DAG) ( 243 , 244 ), and long chain fatty acyl CoAs (FA-CoA) ( 245 ). An acute elevation in plasma FFA concentration leads to an increase in muscle fatty acyl CoA and DAG concentrations. Both long chain fatty acyl CoAs and DAG activate PKC theta ( 243 ), which increases serine phosphorylation with subsequent inhibition of IRS-1 tyrosine phosphorylation ( 246 , 247 ). Consistent with this observation, two groups have shown that in human muscle elevated plasma FFA levels inhibit insulin-stimulated tyrosine phosphorylation of IRS-1, the association of the p85 subunit of PI-3 kinase with IRS-1, and activation of PI-3-kinase ( 248 , 249 ). Direct effects of long chain fatty acyl CoAs on glucose transport ( 250 ), glucose phosphorylation ( 251 ), and glycogen synthase ( 233 ) also have been demonstrated in muscle. Lastly, increased muscle ceramide levels (secondary to increased long chain fatty acyl CoAs) have been shown to interfere with glucose transport and to inhibit glycogen synthase in muscle via activation of PKB ( 252 ). In summary, elevated plasma FFA concentrations can induce insulin resistance in muscle via multiple mechanisms involving alterations in a variety of intracellular lipid signaling molecules which exert their inhibitory effects on multiple steps (insulin signal transduction system, glucose transport, glucose phosphorylation, glycogen synthase, pyruvate dehydrogenase, Krebs cycle) involved in glucose metabolism. Fatty Liver Disease in T2DM As the epidemic of obesity increases worldwide in conjunction with T2DM, there is a parallel and proportionate increase in the prevalence of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD), formerly known as nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). A subtype of MASLD, which can be characterized as metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH, formerly nonalcoholic steato-hepatitis [NASH]) is a potentially progressive liver disease that can lead to cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma, liver transplantation, and death. MASLD is also associated with extrahepatic manifestations such as chronic kidney disease, cardiovascular disease and sleep apnea. Despite this important burden, we are only beginning to understand its pathogenesis and the contribution of environmental and genetic factors to the risk of developing the progressive course of fatty liver
