Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


this important burden, we are only beginning to understand its pathogenesis and the contribution of environmental and genetic factors to the risk of developing the progressive course of fatty liver disease. Of interest, however, despite the fact that the risk of liver-related mortality and the advancement to liver fibrosis are increased in patients with MASLD, the leading cause of death is cardiovascular disease ( 442 - 443 ). MASLD and MASH are stages of fatty liver disease that are associated with obesity, insulin resistance, T2DM, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and metabolic syndrome. In these individuals, a net retention of lipids within hepatocytes, mostly in the form of triglycerides, is a prerequisite for the development of MASLD. The primary metabolic abnormality leading to lipid accumulation (steatosis), however, is not well understood, but it could potentially result from insulin resistance and alterations in the uptake, synthesis, degradation or secretory pathways of hepatic lipid metabolism. Insulin resistance represents the most reproducible factor in the development of fatty liver disease. There is also some evidence that lipid synthesis de novo”, a process derived from excess non-utilized carbohydrates accumulated in hepatocytes contributes to the intracellular lipid pool. Once an excessive amount of lipids accumulate inside the hepatocytes, a steatotic liver develops. This makes the cellular architecture of the liver vulnerable to further injury, when challenged by additional insults. There is a presumption that progression from simple, uncomplicated steatosis to steatohepatitis to advanced fibrosis results from two operating “hits” due to : i) insulin resistance with further accumulation of fat within hepatocytes, and ii) generation of reactive oxygen species due to lipid peroxidation with cytokine production and Fas ligand induction. The oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation are key factors in the development and progression from steatosis to more advanced stages of liver damage. In addition, this sequence of events reflects similar systemic processes, which worsen tissue insulin resistance with impairment of insulin secretion and accelerated atherogenesis, related primarily to the pro-inflammatory state ( 442 ). FFA and Blood Flow Insulin is a vasodilatory hormone and the stimulatory effect of insulin on muscle glucose metabolism has been shown to result from: (i) a direct action of insulin to augment muscle glucose metabolism, and (ii) increased blood flow to muscle ( 253 , 254 ). The vasodilatory effect of insulin is mediated via the release of nitric oxide from the vascular endothelium ( 255 ). In insulin resistant conditions, such
