Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


( 253 , 254 ). The vasodilatory effect of insulin is mediated via the release of nitric oxide from the vascular endothelium ( 255 ). In insulin resistant conditions, such as obesity and T2DM, some investigators have suggested that as much as half of the impairment in insulin-mediated whole body and leg muscle glucose uptake is related to a defect in insulin’s vasodilatory action ( 253 , 254 ), although the link between insulin-mediated vasodilation and increased blood flow, as well as the underlying mechanisms have been challenged by others ( 256 , 256a ). More recent studies employed contrast-enhanced ultrasonography using 1-methyl-xantine to demonstrate that insulin infusion promotes capillary recruitment in healthy individuals. These data have suggested that there is a time-dependent effect of insulin on regional blood flow redistribution with capillary pre-sphincter relaxation preceding vasodilation and consequent increase in skeletal muscle glucose metabolism ( 256b ). These observations also provided a partial explanation for the discrepant findings reported on the topic of insulin, fatty acids and vasodilation. Because T2DM and obesity are insulin resistant states characterized by day-long elevation in the plasma FFA concentration ( 222 ) and impaired endothelium dependent vasodilation ( 253 ), investigators have examined the effect of increased plasma FFA levels on limb blood flow and muscle glucose uptake ( 257 , 258 ). In healthy, non-diabetic subjects an acute physiologic increase in plasma FFA concentration inhibited metha-choline (endothelium dependent) but not nitroprusside (endothelium independent) stimulated blood flow in association with an impairment in insulin-stimulated muscle glucose disposal. In subsequent studies, the inhibitory effect of FFA on insulin-stimulated leg blood flow was shown to be associated with decreased nitric oxide availability ( 259 ). FFA elevation also inhibits nitric oxide production in endothelial cell cultures by decreasing nitric oxide synthase activity ( 259 ). Since the IRS-1/PI-3 kinase signal transduction pathway is involved in the regulation of nitric oxide synthase activity ( 260 ), one could hypothesize that FFA-induced inhibition of the insulin signal transduction pathway is responsible for the blunted vasodilatory response to the hormone. FFA and Hepatic Glucose Metabolism The liver plays a pivotal role in the regulation of glucose metabolism ( 1 , 4 , 6 , 11 , 16 , 205 ). Following carbohydrate ingestion, the liver suppresses its basal rate of glucose production and takes up approximately one-third of the glucose in the ingested meal ( 12 , 24
