Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


205 ). Following carbohydrate ingestion, the liver suppresses its basal rate of glucose production and takes up approximately one-third of the glucose in the ingested meal ( 12 , 24 , 25 , 205 ). Collectively, suppression of glucose production and augmentation of hepatic glucose uptake account for the maintenance of nearly one-half of the rise in plasma glucose concentration following ingestion of a carbohydrate meal. Hepatic glucose production is regulated by a number of factors, of which insulin (inhibits) and glucagon and FFA (stimulate) are the most important. In vitro studies have demonstrated that plasma FFA are potent stimulators of endogenous glucose production and do so by increasing the activity of pyruvate carboxylase and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxy-kinase, the rate limiting enzymes for gluconeogenesis ( 261 , 262 ). FFA also enhances the activity of glucose-6- phosphatase, the enzyme that ultimately controls the release of glucose by the liver ( 263 ). In normal subjects, increased plasma FFA levels stimulate gluconeogenesis ( 264 , 265 ), while a decrease in plasma FFA concentration reduces gluconeogenesis ( 264 ). It has been shown that a significant portion of the suppressive effect of insulin on hepatic glucose production is mediated via inhibition of lipolysis and a reduction in circulating plasma FFA concentrations ( 16 , 266 , 267 ). Moreover, FFA infusion in normal humans under conditions that simulate the diabetic state ( 268 ) and in obese insulin-resistant subjects ( 269 ) enhances hepatic glucose production, most likely secondarily to stimulation of gluconeogenesis. In subjects with T2DM, the fasting plasma FFA concentration and lipid oxidation rate are increased and are strongly correlated with both the elevated fasting plasma glucose concentration and basal rate of hepatic glucose production ( 18 , 51 , 59 , 162 , 190 , 270 ). The relationship between elevated plasma FFA concentration, FFA oxidation, and hepatic glucose production in obesity and T2DM is explained as follows: (i) increased plasma FFA levels, by mass action, augment FFA uptake by hepatocytes, leading to accelerated lipid oxidation and accumulation of acetyl CoA. The increased concentration of acetyl CoA stimulates pyruvate carboxylase, the rate limiting enzyme in gluconeogenesis ( 261 , 262 ), as well as glucose-6-phosphatase, the rate-controlling enzyme for glucose release from the hepatocyte ( 263 ); (ii) the increased rate of FFA oxidation provides a continuing source of energy (in the form of ATP) and reduced nucleotides (NADH)
