Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


pancreatic beta cells eventually reaches a maximum and then it progressively deteriorates. Concomitantly, there is inappropriate release of glucagon from the pancreatic alpha-cells, particularly in the postprandial period. It has been postulated that both impaired insulin and excessive glucagon secretion in T2DM are facilitated by the “incretin defect”, defined primarily as inadequate response of the gastrointestinal “incretin” hormones to meal ingestion in addition to islet cell resistance to the potentiating action on insulin secretion by these gastrointestinal peptides. Moreover, hypothalamic insulin resistance (in the central nervous system) and the associated elevated sympathetic drive, typically seen in patients with T2DM also impair the ability of circulating insulin to suppress glucose production. The fact that renal tubular glucose reabsorption capacity is enhanced in diabetic patients also contributes to the development and maintenance of chronic hyperglycemia. Thus, the time has arrived to advance the concept from the “triumvirate” to the “omnious octet” ( 4a ). Further, recent observations have recognized that a chronic low-grade inflammation with activation of the immune system are involved in the pathogenesis of obesity-related insulin resistance and T2DM (4d). Adipose tissue, liver, muscle and pancreas are themselves sites of inflammation in presence of obesity. Infiltration of macrophages and other immune cells as well as the presence of pro-inflammatory cytokines in these tissues has been associated with insulin resistance and beta cell impairment. The possibility that endothelial dysfunction and changes in vascular capillary permeability affect peripheral insulin action has also been raised (4e). These pathogenic mechanisms must be taken into account when deciding on treatment of hyperglycemia in patients with T2DM. Figure 2. Summary of the Eight Principal Mechanisms Contributing to Hyperglycemia in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes. CELLULAR MECHANISMS OF INSULIN RESISTANCE The stimulation of glucose metabolism by insulin requires that the hormone must first bind to specific receptors that are present on the cell surface of all insulin target tissues ( 1 , 274 - 277 ). After insulin has bound to and activated its receptor, “second messengers” are generated and these second messengers initiate a series of events involving a cascade of phosphorylation-de-phosphorylation reactions ( 1 , 274 - 280 ) that eventually result in the stimulation of intracellular glucose metabolism. The initial step in glucose metabolism involves activation of the glucose transport system, leading to influx of glucose into insulin target tissues, primarily muscle ( 1 , 281 , 282 ). The free glucose, which has
