Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


involves activation of the glucose transport system, leading to influx of glucose into insulin target tissues, primarily muscle ( 1 , 281 , 282 ). The free glucose, which has entered the cell, subsequently is metabolized by a series of enzymatic steps that are under the control of insulin. Of these, the most important are glucose phosphorylation (catalyzed by hexokinase), glycogen synthase (which controls glycogen synthesis), and phosphofructokinase (PFK) and PDH (which regulate glycolysis and glucose oxidation, respectively). Insulin Receptor/Insulin Receptor Tyrosine Kinase The insulin receptor is a glycoprotein consisting of two alpha subunits and two beta subunits linked by disulfide bonds ( 1 , 274 - 277 ). The alpha subunit of the insulin receptor is entirely extracellular and contains the insulin-binding domain. The beta subunit has an extracellular domain, a transmembrane domain, and an intracellular domain that expresses insulin-stimulated kinase activity directed towards its own tyrosine residues ( 1 , 274 - 277 ). Insulin receptor phosphorylation of the beta subunit, with subsequent activation of insulin receptor tyrosine kinase, represents the first step in the action of insulin on glucose metabolism ( 274 - 277 ). Mutagenesis experiments have shown that insulin receptors devoid of tyrosine kinase activity are completely ineffective in mediating insulin stimulation of cellular metabolism ( 283 , 284 ). Similarly, mutagenesis of any of the three major phosphorylation sites (at residues 1158, 1163, and 1162) impairs insulin receptor kinase activity, resulting in a decrease in the acute metabolic and growth promoting effects of insulin ( 283 , 285 ). Insulin Receptor Signal Transduction Following activation, insulin receptor tyrosine kinase phosphorylates specific intracellular proteins, of which at least nine have been identified ( 282 ). Four of these belong to the family of insulin-receptor substrate proteins: IRS-1, IRS-2, IRS-3, IRS-4 (the others include Shc, Cbl, Gab-1, p60dok, and APS). In muscle IRS-1 serves as the major docking protein that interacts with the insulin receptor tyrosine kinase and undergoes tyrosine phosphorylation in regions containing amino acid sequence motifs (YXXM or YMXM). When phosphorylated, these serve as recognition sites for proteins containing src-homology 2 (SH2) domains (where y = tyrosine, M = methionine, and x - any amino acid) ( 274 , 275 ). Mutation of these specific tyrosines severely impairs the ability of insulin to stimulate glycogen synthesis and DNA synthesis, establishing the important role of IRS-1 in insulin signal transduction ( 282 ). In liver,
