Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


T2DM Both receptor and post-receptor defects have been shown to contribute to insulin resistance in individuals with T2DM. Some, but not all studies have demonstrated a modest 20-30% reduction in insulin binding to monocytes and adipocytes from patients with T2DM ( 1 , 311 - 316 ). This reduction is due to a decreased number of insulin receptors without change in insulin receptor affinity. In addition to the decreased number of cell-surface receptors, a variety of defects in insulin receptor internalization and processing have been described ( 314 , 315 ). However, some caution should be employed in interpreting these studies. Muscle and liver, not adipocytes, represent the major tissues responsible for the regulation of glucose homeostasis in vivo and insulin binding to solubilized receptors obtained from skeletal muscle biopsies and liver has been shown to be normal in obese and lean diabetic individuals when expressed per milligram of protein ( 312 , 313 , 316 - 318 ). Moreover, a decrease in insulin receptor number cannot be demonstrated in over half of subjects with T2DM ( 319 , 320 ), and it has been difficult to demonstrate a correlation between reduced insulin binding and the severity of insulin resistance ( 321 , 322 ). The insulin receptor gene has been sequenced in a large number of patients with T2DM from diverse ethnic populations using denaturing-gradient gel electrophoresis or single- stranded conformational polymorphism analysis, and, with very rare exceptions ( 323 ), physiologically significant mutations in the insulin receptor gene have not been observed ( 324 , 325 ). This excludes a structural gene abnormality in the insulin receptor as a cause of common T2DM. Insulin receptor tyrosine kinase activity has been examined in a variety of cell types (skeletal muscle, adipocytes, hepatocytes, and erythrocytes) from normal-weight and obese diabetic subjects. Most ( 278 , 301 , 312 , 313 , 320 , 326 - 328 ), but not all ( 317 , 329 ) investigators have found reduced tyrosine kinase activity that cannot be explained by alterations in insulin receptor number or insulin receptor binding. However, near-normalization of the fasting plasma glucose concentration, (by weight loss) has been reported to correct the defect in insulin receptor tyrosine kinase activity ( 330 ). This observation suggests that the defect in tyrosine kinase is acquired and results from some combination of hyperglycemia, defective intracellular glucose metabolism, hyperinsulinemia, and insulin resistance -
