Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


( 330 ). This observation suggests that the defect in tyrosine kinase is acquired and results from some combination of hyperglycemia, defective intracellular glucose metabolism, hyperinsulinemia, and insulin resistance - all of which improved after weight loss. A glucose-induced reduction in insulin receptor tyrosine kinase activity has been demonstrated in rat fibroblast culture in vitro ( 331 ). Insulin receptor tyrosine kinase activity assays are performed in vitro, and the results of these assays could provide misleading information with regard to insulin receptor function in vivo. To circumvent this problem, investigators have employed the euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp in combination with muscle biopsies and anti- phospho-tyrosine immunoblot analysis ( 301 ). Such analysis yields a “snapshot” of the insulin-stimulated tyrosine phosphorylation state of the receptor in vivo. The results of these studies have demonstrated a substantial decrease in insulin receptor tyrosine phosphorylation in both obese nondiabetic and subjects with T2DM ( 301 , 328 ). When insulin-stimulated insulin receptor tyrosine phosphorylation was examined in normal-glucose-tolerant or impaired- glucose-tolerant individuals at high risk of developing T2DM, a normal increase in tyrosine phosphorylation of the insulin receptor has been observed ( 332 ). These observations are consistent with the concept that impaired insulin receptor tyrosine kinase activity in patients with T2DM is acquired secondarily to hyperglycemia or some other metabolic disturbance. A physiologic increase in the plasma insulin concentration stimulates tyrosine phosphorylation of the insulin receptor and IRS-1 in lean healthy subjects to 150-200% of basal values ( 280 , 301 , 328 , 332 , 333 ). In obese subjects without T2DM, the ability of insulin to activate these two early insulin receptor signaling events in muscle is reduced, while in subjects with T2DM insulin has no significant stimulatory effect on either insulin receptor or IRS-1 tyrosine phosphorylation ( 301 ). The association of p85 protein and PI3-kinase activity with IRS-1 also is greatly reduced in obese non-diabetic and subjects with T2DM compared to lean healthy subjects ( 301 , 328 - 334 ). Insulin also failed to increase the association of the p85 subunit of PI3-kinase with IRS-2 in muscle, indicating that T2DM is characterized by a combined defect in IRS-1 and IRS-2 function ( 301 , 328 ). The decrease in insulin stimulation of the association of the p85 regulatory subunit of PI3-kinase with IRS-1 is closely correlated with the impairment in muscle glycogen synthase activity and in vivo insulin-stimulated
