Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


in insulin stimulation of the association of the p85 regulatory subunit of PI3-kinase with IRS-1 is closely correlated with the impairment in muscle glycogen synthase activity and in vivo insulin-stimulated glucose disposal ( 301 ). Defective regulation of PI3-kinase gene expression by insulin also has been demonstrated in skeletal muscle and adipose tissue of subjects with T2DM ( 335 ). In animal models of diabetes, an 80% decrease in IRS-1 phosphorylation and a greater than 90% reduction in insulin-stimulated PI3-kinase activity have been reported ( 336 ). In the insulin resistant, normal glucose tolerant offspring of two parents with T2DM, IRS-1 tyrosine phosphorylation and the association of p85 protein/PI3-kinase activity with IRS-1 are markedly decreased despite normal tyrosine phosphorylation of the insulin receptor; these insulin signaling defects are correlated closely with the severity of insulin resistance, measured with the euglycemic insulin clamp technique ( 332 ). In summary, a defect in the association of PI3-kinase with IRS-1 and its subsequent activation appears to be a characteristic abnormality in T2DM, is closely correlated with in vivo muscle insulin resistance, and is unrelated to a disturbance in insulin receptor tyrosine phosphorylation. Several groups ( 337 , 338 ) have reported that a common mutation in the IRS-1 gene (Gly 972 Arg) is associated with T2DM, insulin resistance, and obesity, but the physiologic significance of this mutation remains to be established ( 339 ). The profound insulin resistance of the PI3-kinase signaling pathway contrasts markedly with the ability of insulin to stimulate MAP kinase pathway activity in insulin-resistant individuals with T2DM and in individuals with obesity without T2DM ( 301 , 328 ). Hyperinsulinemia increases MEK1 activity and ERK1/2 phosphorylation and activity to the same extent in lean healthy individuals as in patients with insulin resistance and obesity without T2DM and patients with T2DM ( 301 , 328 ). This finding of selective insulin resistance is similar to that recently observed in vasculature of Zucker fatty rats ( 340 ). Two possible reasons for this difference are alternate insulin signaling pathways and differential signal amplification. With regard to the former, the MAP kinase pathway can be activated either through Grb2/Sos interaction with IRS-1/IRS-2 or with Shc. Because IRS-1 tyrosine phosphorylation is dramatically reduced in T2D, it is possible that insulin activation of the MAP kinase pathway in vivo primarily occurs through Shc activation. There is evidence from in vitro studies to support this
