Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


in T2D, it is possible that insulin activation of the MAP kinase pathway in vivo primarily occurs through Shc activation. There is evidence from in vitro studies to support this concept ( 341 ). Like ERK and MEK activity, insulin increased Shc phosphorylation to the same extent in lean and obese nondiabetic and subjects with T2DM ( 301 ). These results indicate that, in T2DM, insulin induces sufficient activation of the insulin receptor tyrosine kinase to increase Shc phosphorylation normally. It also is possible that differential signal amplification in the PI3-kinase and MAP kinase pathways can explain their differing susceptibilities to the effects of insulin resistance. Maintenance of insulin stimulation of the MAP kinase pathway in the presence of insulin resistance in the PI3-kinase pathway may be important in the development of insulin resistance. ERKs can phosphorylate IRS-1 on serine residues ( 342 ), and serine phosphorylation of IRS-1 and the insulin receptor itself has been implicated in de-sensitization of insulin receptor signaling ( 343 ). Continued ERK activity, when IRS-1 function already is impaired, could lead to a worsening of insulin resistance. Thus, subjects with T2DM or obesity have inappropriately high MAP kinase activity. One also could postulate that insulin resistance in the metabolic (PI3- kinase) pathway, with its compensatory increase in beta cell function and hyperinsulinemia, leads to excessive stimulation of the MAP kinase pathway in vascular tissue ( 301 , 302 ). This would result in the proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells, increased collagen formation, and increased production of growth factors and inflammatory cytokines, possibly explaining the accelerated rate of atherosclerosis in individuals with T2DM (340A, 340B). Glucose Transport Activation of the insulin signal transduction system in insulin target tissues leads to the stimulation of glucose transport. The effect of insulin is brought about by the translocation of a large intracellular pool of glucose transporters (associated with low-density microsomes) to the plasma membrane ( 281 , 282 , 344 ). There are five major, different facilitative glucose transporters with distinctive tissue distributions ( 281 , 282 , 345 , 346 ) ( Table 1 ). GLUT4, the transporter regulated by insulin is found in insulin-sensitive tissues (muscle and adipocytes), has a Km of ~5 mmol/l, which is close to that of the plasma glucose concentration, and is associated with HK-II ( 347 - 349 ). In adipocytes and muscle, its concentration in the plasma membrane increases
