Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


is close to that of the plasma glucose concentration, and is associated with HK-II ( 347 - 349 ). In adipocytes and muscle, its concentration in the plasma membrane increases markedly after exposure to insulin, and this increase is associated with a reciprocal decline in the intracellular GLUT4 pool. GLUT1 represents the predominant glucose transporter in the insulin-independent tissues (brain and erythrocytes), but also is found in muscle and adipocytes. It is located primarily in the plasma membrane, where its concentration changes little after the addition of insulin. It has a low Km (~1 mmol/l) and is well suited for its function, which is to mediate basal glucose uptake. It is found in association with HKI ( 347 - 349 ). GLUT2 predominates in the liver and pancreatic beta cells, where it is found in association with a specific hexokinase, HKIV ( 347 - 350 ). In the beta cell, HKIV is referred to as gluco-kinase ( 350 , 351 ). GLUT2 has a high Km, (~15-20 mmol/l) and, as a consequence, the glucose concentration in cells expressing this transporter rises in direct proportion to the increase in plasma glucose concentration. This characteristic allows these cells to respond as glucose sensors. In summary, each tissue has a specific glucose transporter and associated hexokinase, which allows it uniquely to carry out its specialized function to maintain whole-body glucose economy. Table 1. Classification of glucose transport and HK activity according to their tissue distribution and functional regulation View in own window Organ Glucose transporter HK computer Classification Brain GLUT1 HK-I Glucose dependent Erythrocyte GLUT1 HK-I Glucose dependent Adipocyte GLUT4 HK-II Insulin dependent Muscle GLUT4 HK-II Insulin dependent Liver GLUT2 HK-IVL Glucose sensor GK beta cell GLUT2 HK-IVB (glucokinase) Glucose sensor Gut GLUT3-symporter - Sodium dependent Kidney GLUT3-symporter - Sodium dependent Glucose transport activity in patients with T2DM uniformly has been found to be decreased in adipocytes ( 281 , 282 , 320 , 351 , 352 ) and muscle ( 281 , 282 , 354 - 356 ). In adipocytes from humans with T2DM and rodent models of diabetes, there is a severe reduction in GLUT4 mRNA and protein, and the ability of insulin to elicit a normal translocation response and to activate the GLUT4 transporter after its insertion into the cell membrane is impaired ( 281 , 282 , 320 , 353 , 357 ). In contrast, muscle tissue obtained from
