Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


of intracellular glucose phosphorylation was impaired to an even greater extent, insulin caused an increase in the intracellular free glucose concentration. By performing the insulin clamp at each subject’s normal level of fasting hyperglycemia, normal rates of whole- body glucose disposal and a normal rate of glucose influx into muscle was elicited. However, the rate of intracellular glucose phosphorylation increased only modestly; consequently, there was a dramatic rise in the free glucose concentration within the intracellular space that is accessible to glucose. These observations indicate that in individuals with T2DM, while both glucose transport and glucose phosphorylation are severely resistant to the action of insulin, impaired glucose phosphorylation (HKII) appears to be the rate-limiting step for insulin action. A similar pattern of impaired muscle glucose phosphorylation and transport is present in the insulin-resistant, normal glucose-tolerant offspring of two diabetic parents ( 382 ). These results are consistent with dose-response studies using PET to evaluate glucose phosphorylation and transport in skeletal muscle of subjects with T2DM ( 373 ). They also are consistent with 31P-NMR studies ( 383 ) which demonstrate that, during hyperinsulinemia, muscle G-6-P concentrations decline in subjects with T2DM versus control subjects. However, subsequent studies using 31 P-NMR in combination with 1- 14 C-glucose suggest that the defect in insulin-stimulated muscle glucose transport exceeds the defect in glucose phosphorylation and is responsible for the decline in muscle glucose-6-P concentration ( 372 ). Because of methodologic differences, the results of the triple tracer ( 370 ) and MRI ( 372 ) studies cannot be reconciled at present. Nonetheless, observations from these studies are consistent in demonstrating that the defects in glucose phosphorylation and glucose transport in muscle are established early in the natural history of T2DM and cannot be explained by glucose toxicity ( 91 ). Clear evidence that HKII activity is crucial for glucose uptake derives from studies in transgenic mice who overexpress HKII. In this model, HKII over-expression increased both insulin- and exercise-stimulated muscle glucose uptake ( 384 ). In healthy nondiabetic subjects, physiologic hyperinsulinemia for as little as 2-4 hours increases muscle HKII activity, gene transcription, and translation ( 333 , 378 ). In lean subjects with T2DM insulin-stimulated HKII activity and mRNA levels are markedly reduced compared to controls ( 383 , 385 ). Decreased basal muscle HKII activity and mRNA levels ( 385 ) and impaired insulin-stimulated HKII activity ( 379 , 380 ,
