Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


However, the major abnormality in glycogen synthase regulation in T2DM and other insulin resistant conditions is its lack of de-phosphorylation and activation by insulin as a result of insulin receptor signaling abnormalities (see previous discussion). The glycogen synthase gene ( 417 ) has been the subject of intensive investigation. An association between glycogen synthase gene markers and T2DM has been demonstrated in Japanese, French, Finnish, and Pima Indian populations. However, DNA sequencing has revealed either no mutations ( 418 ) or rare nucleotide substitutions ( 419 , 420 ) that cannot explain the defect in insulin-stimulated glycogen synthase. Nonetheless, the association between the glycogen synthase gene and T2DM ( 418 ) suggests that another gene close to the glycogen synthase gene may be involved in the development of T2DM. The genes encoding the catalytic subunits of PP1 ( 421 ) and ISPK-1 ( 422 ) have been examined in insulin-resistant Pima Indians and Danes with T2DM. Several silent nucleotide substitutions were found in the PP1 and ISPK-1 genes in the Danish population; the mRNA levels of both genes were normal in skeletal muscle ( 422 ). No structural gene abnormalities in the catalytic subunit of PP1 were detected in Pima Indians ( 422 ). Thus, neither abnormalities in the PP1 and ISPK-1 genes nor abnormalities in their translation can explain the impaired enzymatic activities of glycogen synthase and PP1 that have been observed in vivo. Similarly, there is no evidence that an alteration in glycogen phosphorylase plays any role in the abnormality in glycogen formation in T2DM ( 423 ). In summary, glycogen synthase activity is severely impaired in patients with T2DM and in insulin-resistant normal glucose tolerant individuals who are predisposed to develop T2DM. However, the defect cannot be explained by an abnormality in the genes encoding glycogen synthase or is promoter or by other key genes - PP1 or ISPK-1 - involved in the regulation of glycogen synthase activity. Glycolysis/Glucose Oxidation Glucose oxidation accounts for ~90% of total glycolytic flux, while anaerobic glycolysis accounts for the other 10% ( 393 , 394 ). Two enzymes, phosphofructokinase (PFK) and pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) play pivotal roles in the regulation of glycolysis and glucose oxidation, respectively. In individuals with T2DM the glycolytic/glucose oxidative pathway has been shown to be impaired in many individuals with T2DM ( 393 , 394 ). Although one study suggested that the activity of PFK is modestly
