Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


glycolytic/glucose oxidative pathway has been shown to be impaired in many individuals with T2DM ( 393 , 394 ). Although one study suggested that the activity of PFK is modestly reduced in muscle biopsies from subjects with T2DM ( 424 ), the majority of evidence indicates that the activity of PFK is normal ( 407 , 412 , 417 ). Insulin has no effect on muscle PFK activity, mRNA levels, or protein content in either nondiabetic or diabetic individuals ( 417 ). PDH is a key insulin-regulated enzyme whose activity in muscle is acutely stimulated by a physiological increment in the plasma insulin concentration ( 415 ). Three previous studies have examined PDH activity in patients with T2DM. Insulin-stimulated PDH activity is decreased in isolated subcutaneous human adipocytes from patients with T2DM ( 425 ) and in skeletal muscle from subjects with T2DM undergoing euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamps ( 426 ). However, when patients with T2DM had muscle biopsies during hyperglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamps, activation of PDH by insulin was normal ( 409 ), in concert with normalized rates of muscle glucose uptake. These results suggest that insulin stimulation of PDH activity is influenced by glycolytic flux. Both obesity and T2DM are associated with accelerated FFA turnover and oxidation ( 1 , 4 , 18 , 162 ), which would be expected, according to the Randle cycle ( 232 ), to inhibit PDH activity and consequently glucose oxidation (see prior discussion). Thus, any observed defect in glucose oxidation or PDH activity could be acquired secondarily to increased FFA oxidation and feedback inhibition of PDH by elevated intracellular levels of acetyl-CoA and reduced availability of NAD. Consistent with this observation, the rates of basal and insulin- stimulated glucose oxidation have been shown to be normal in the normal glucose tolerant offspring of two parents with T2DM ( 43 ) and in the first-degree relatives of subjects with T2DM ( 41 , 423 ), while it is decreased in subjects with overt T2DM ( 1 , 4 , 393 , 394 , 427 ). Studies examining PHD activity in muscle tissue from lean diabetic subjects with mild fasting hyperglycemia are needed before the role of this enzyme in the development of insulin resistance in T2DM can be established or excluded. In summary, post-binding defects in insulin action primarily are responsible for the insulin resistance in T2DM. Diminished insulin binding, when present, is small, occurs
