Pathogenesis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: insulin, glucose, pubmed, diabetes, muscle, resistance, insulin resistance, subjects, plasma, uptake, glycogen, hepatic, glucose uptake, diabetes pubmed, metabolism


presumed to be defective in patients with T2DM because the expressions of PGC-1α and its targeted genes are reduced. They are associated with an impaired ability to produce mitochondrial ATP and increased ROS production from the electron transport chain. There is some preliminary evidence that stimulation of mitochondrial biogenesis by pharmacological activation targeting these molecules is beneficial in the treatment of T2DM and obesity. The accumulation of damaged or depolarized mitochondria in pancreatic beta cells is associated with oxidative stress and favors subsequent development of diabetes. Mitochondria in pancreatic beta cells are continuously recruited in the fusion and fission processes. In a cultured pancreatic beta cell line (INS-1), high levels of glucose- and palmitate-induced mitochondrial fusion arrested and reduced respiratory function. In INS1 cells, mitochondria with fission demonstrated reduced Δψ and decreased levels of the fusion protein OPA1. The inhibition of fission machinery proteins using DRP1 and FIS1 RNAi resulted in decreased mitochondrial autophagy, the accumulation of oxidized mitochondrial proteins, reduced respiration, and impaired insulin secretion. All of these suggest that selective fission of damaged mitochondria is followed by their removal by autophagy. In another study, INS-1 cells were treated with palmitate and high glucose, and the fragmentation of mitochondria with reduced fusion activities was observed. The application of FIS1 RNAi that shifts the dynamic balance to favor fusion is able to prevent mitochondrial fragmentation, maintain mitochondrial dynamics, and prevent apoptosis. Thus, although not entirely elucidated, abnormal mitochondrial fusion and fission dynamics in the pancreatic beta cells may play an important role in beta cell dysfunction and the progression of T2DM. Obesity and T2DM are associated with impaired skeletal muscle oxidation, reduced mitochondrial contents, and lowered rates of TCA cycle enzymes and OXPHOS. Patients with T2DM and obesity also demonstrated reduced expression of MFN2, which may be related to the reduced function of mitochondria in skeletal muscle. In 17 subjects with obesity, 12 weeks of exercise improved insulin sensitivity and fat oxidation. Skeletal muscle biopsy in these patients revealed that decreased phosphorylation and reduction of DRP1 at serine 616 were negatively correlated with increases in fat oxidation and insulin sensitivity ( 451 ). In this same study, there was a trend towards an increase in the expression of both MFN1 and MFN2. Studies in hepatocytes have recently demonstrated that the role of MAMs in calcium, lipid, and metabolite exchange is altered in obesity and T2DM. Although the ER and mitochondria
