Lysosomal Acid Lipase Deficiency
KEYWORDS: lal-d, disease, patients, pubmed, liver, acid, lipase, lysosomal, deficiency, acid lipase, lysosomal acid, ester, clinical, cholesterol, storage


ABSTRACT Lysosomal acid lipase deficiency (LAL-D) is an autosomal recessive genetic disease with variable presentation which often leads to severe morbidity and mortality. More than 100 LIPA loss of function mutations have been identified, the most common reported mutation being a splice junction mutation in exon 8. The true prevalence of the disease is unknown, but is estimated to be between 1:40,000 to 1:300,000. Infantile-onset LAL-D is generally fatal within the first 12 months of life. Common presenting symptoms in the late-onset form include dyslipidemia (elevated LDL-C, low HDL-C), elevated liver transaminases, hepatomegaly, and splenomegaly. Prior to the availability of enzyme-replacement therapy, individuals with LAL-D were treated with lipid lowering medication, liver transplant, and stem cell transplant, none of which corrected the multisystem nature of the disorder. Sebelipase alfa (Kanuma ® ), a recombinant human lysosomal acid lipase, was approved by the FDA in 2015 to treat LAL-D. Phase 3 studies have shown an improvement in lipid parameters and liver enzymes. Long term studies demonstrating the safety and efficacy of sebelipase alfa in infants, children and adults are ongoing. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Lysosomal acid lipase deficiency (LAL-D) is a rare, heterogeneous, autosomal recessive genetic disease, the manifestations of which include a clinical continuum. LAL-D is characterized by accumulation of cholesteryl esters and triglycerides primarily in the liver and spleen, but with involvement of other organs as well. Clinically, LAL-D is under-recognized, leading to a delay in diagnosis. It is often mistaken for more common conditions with similar clinical and laboratory findings, such as heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) ( 1 , 2 ). Correct diagnosis and timely intervention are critical to prolonging life and improving outcomes. Similar to other lysosomal storage disorders, LAL-D presents across a clinical spectrum from infancy to adulthood. Historically, affected infants who presented within the first year of life were known as Wolman Disease while those who symptoms were delayed until childhood were referred to as cholesteryl ester storage disease [CESD]. Woman disease, which has a rapidly progressive course, was first described in 1956. Affected infants have severe malnutrition, adrenal calcifications, hepatosplenomegaly, and death within the first few months of life ( 3 ). In contrast, CESD is seen as having a variable clinical spectrum with recognition of the disorder occurring from childhood into adulthood. Fredrickson,
