Lysosomal Acid Lipase Deficiency
KEYWORDS: lal-d, disease, patients, pubmed, liver, acid, lipase, lysosomal, deficiency, acid lipase, lysosomal acid, ester, clinical, cholesterol, storage


first few months of life ( 3 ). In contrast, CESD is seen as having a variable clinical spectrum with recognition of the disorder occurring from childhood into adulthood. Fredrickson, Schiff, Langeron, and Infante were the first to describe CESD in individuals with presentation from the first to fourth decades of life, and noted them to be less severe than those described by Wolman ( 4 - 6 ). INHERITANCE AND GENETICS LAL-D is an autosomal recessive disease that arises from mutations at the LAL locus on chromosome 10q23.2. Affected individuals are either homozygous or compound heterozygous for LIPA mutations, with more than 100 LIPA mutations having been identified ( 7 ). Lysosomal acid lipase (LAL) plays a central role in intracellular lipid metabolism ( 8 , 9 ). LAL is the only lipase contained within lysosomes that hydrolyzes cholesteryl esters and triglycerides. After cleavage by LAL, free cholesterol and fatty acids exit the lysosome to enter the cytosol ( Figure 1 ). These cleaved products play an important role in cholesterol homeostasis. Free cholesterol interacts with transcription factors (sterol regulatory element binding proteins [SREBPs]) to modulate production of intracellular cholesterol. As intracellular free cholesterol increases, there is a down regulation of LDL receptors mediated by SREBP-2, resulting in less LDL entering the cell. Additionally, there is inhibition of hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, resulting in decreased cholesterol production, as well as stimulation of acyl-cholesterol acyltransferase (leading to increased cholesterol esterification). Finally, increased intracellular fatty acid leads to inhibition of triglyceride and phospholipid production and decreased fatty acid synthesis ( 10 - 12 ). Deficiency of LAL results in diminished or absent hydrolysis of cholesteryl esters and triglycerides, trapping cholesterol esters and TG within the lysosome. This results in a decrease in cytosolic free cholesterol and a compensatory, upregulation in the cholesterol synthetic pathway (HMG CoA reductase activity) and endocytosis via increased LDL receptors. There is increased production of apolipoprotein B and very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL-C) ( 13 - 15 ). The dysregulated expression of the LDL-cholesterol-dependent ATP binding cassette transporter 1 (ABCA1), similar to that seen in Niemann-Pick type C1, results in decreased levels of HDL-C ( 16 ). The characteristic dyslipidemia seen in individuals with LAL-D includes elevated total cholesterol, elevated LDL-C, and low HDL-C ( 2 ). Figure 1. Cellular Cholesterol Homeostasis in Heathy Individuals and Patients with LAL-D. The true incidence of LAL-D is unknown. Estimates
