Lysosomal Acid Lipase Deficiency
KEYWORDS: lal-d, disease, patients, pubmed, liver, acid, lipase, lysosomal, deficiency, acid lipase, lysosomal acid, ester, clinical, cholesterol, storage


total cholesterol, elevated LDL-C, and low HDL-C ( 2 ). Figure 1. Cellular Cholesterol Homeostasis in Heathy Individuals and Patients with LAL-D. The true incidence of LAL-D is unknown. Estimates suggest overall disease prevalence between 1:40,000 to 1:300,000, depending on ethnicity and geographical location ( 1 , 2 , 17 ). The most commonly inherited defect is a splice junction mutation in exon 8, E8SJM (c.894G>A). It is assumed that 50-70% of adults and children with LAL-D have E8SJM ( 17 , 18 ). Studies in the general population have shown that the estimated frequency of E8SJM allele is 0.0013 in Caucasians, 0.0017 in US Hispanics, 0.0010 in US Ashkenazi Jews, and 0.0005 in Asians ( 19 ). Population screening for E8SJM among healthy West German individuals reveal a heterozygote frequency of ~ 1:200 individuals. Jewish infants of Iraqi or Iranian origin appear to be at high risk for LAL-D with an estimated incidence of 1:4,200 in the Los Angeles community ( 20 ). A study attempting to identify the prevalence of LAL-D from patients with abnormal results in laboratory databases (elevated LDL-C and abnormalities on liver tests) identified a total of 1825 patients who subsequently underwent a dried blood spot sample for determination of LAL enzyme activity . No cases of LAL-D were identified. The results of this study demonstrate the potential of databases in helping to identify patients with specific patterns of results to allow targeted testing for possible causes of disease. Biochemical screening suggested that the gene frequency of LAL deficiency in adults is less than 1:100 ( 21 ). Additionally, histopathology databases of liver biopsies were analyzed searching for patients with features of 'microvesicular cirrhosis' or 'cryptogenic cirrhosis'. DNA was available from six patients and two were homozygous for LAL c.46A>C;p.Thr16Pro, an unclassified variant in exon 2 ( 21 ). The results of these studies suggest the potential of databases in helping to identify patients with specific laboratory results or those who had certain biopsy findings to allow targeted testing for possible causes of disease. PRESENTATION The symptoms of LAL-D are quite varied, and are related to the age that clinical manifestations first appear ( Figure 2 ). Individuals who present within the first few days to first month of life often have vomiting, diarrhea, hepatosplenomegaly, abdominal distention, and severe failure to thrive. The first symptom observed is usually vomiting, which has been described as forceful
