Lysosomal Acid Lipase Deficiency
KEYWORDS: lal-d, disease, patients, pubmed, liver, acid, lipase, lysosomal, deficiency, acid lipase, lysosomal acid, ester, clinical, cholesterol, storage


to first month of life often have vomiting, diarrhea, hepatosplenomegaly, abdominal distention, and severe failure to thrive. The first symptom observed is usually vomiting, which has been described as forceful and persistent. Accompanying these symptoms are usually watery diarrhea and low-grade fever. Symptoms generally persist despite multiple medical interventions and may lead to severe malnutrition. A hallmark of infantile-onset LAL-D is adrenal enlargement and calcification, often seen on imaging, but not required for diagnosis. Calcifications of the adrenal gland as well as adrenal insufficiency have been documented. Few patients survive beyond 12 months of age ( 2 , 3 , 22 ), with those that have growth failure often dying by four months of age ( 23 ). In contrast, the clinical presentation and progression of LAL-D can be variable in older children and adults. However, there are common clinical manifestations that have been reported in this group of patients. In a review of 71 patients two thirds presented with their first symptoms before the age of 5 years. Hepatomegaly was present in all the patients; 86% had splenomegaly. Gastrointestinal symptoms were present in 30% and included vomiting and diarrhea [18%], failure to thrive [16%], abdominal pain [10%], gastrointestinal bleeding [8%], and gallbladder disease [4%]. Elevation of cholesterol was present in 90% ( 24 ). In a separate review of 135 patients, the median age of onset of symptoms was 5 years with a range from birth to 68 years. Hepatomegaly was present in 99.3% of patients. The most common extrahepatic findings were steatorrhea, poor growth, gallbladder dysfunction, and cardiovascular disease. Total cholesterol was elevated in all 110 patients ( 1 ). The disease severity is likely dependent on the efficiency of alternative pathways, but not on the level of residual enzyme activity ( 25 ). In adults, the most frequent symptoms are abdominal pain, hepatomegaly, and laboratory abnormalities that include increased levels of transaminases and cholesterol. Differential diagnostic considerations include autoimmune hepatitis, NASH, alpha1-antitrypsin deficiency, and Wilson disease. Of concern is the potential for premature atherosclerosis in affected individuals. Although the occurrence of cardiovascular events has not been extensively studied, case reports and observational studies have documented the presence of arterial plaque and atheroma at a very early age ( 26 - 28 ). As a result, many patients with this disease have been prescribed lipid-lowering medications ( 1 ). While lipid lowering in the setting of LAL-A has
