Lysosomal Acid Lipase Deficiency
KEYWORDS: lal-d, disease, patients, pubmed, liver, acid, lipase, lysosomal, deficiency, acid lipase, lysosomal acid, ester, clinical, cholesterol, storage


( 26 - 28 ). As a result, many patients with this disease have been prescribed lipid-lowering medications ( 1 ). While lipid lowering in the setting of LAL-A has been variable, statins increase hepatic uptake of LDL and, as a consequence, may worsen the lipid overload ( 29 ). It is important to note that seven asymptomatic adults, diagnosed in the third to sixth decade of life, have been reported. All were coincidently found to have confirmed LAL-D, yet none had detectable hepatomegaly ( 28 ). The most consistent biochemical abnormalities seen in late onset LAL-D include elevated liver transaminases and plasma lipids. In a study of 49 patients designed to characterize clinical manifestations of LAL-D, mean ALT, AST, and GGT were 92.4, 87.8, and 52.2 U/L at the first measurement. In this study elevated GGT levels were uncommon (only 20% had values > 40 U/L) ( 30 ). In another study, liver dysfunction occurred in 100% of 135 patients and 73% of the 11 reported deaths were due to liver failure ( 1 ). Mean LDL-C at the time of first measurement was 202.9 mg/dL, and reported as abnormal in 64.4% of patients. Mean total cholesterol was 269.5 mg/dL and was abnormal in 62.5%. Mean HDL-C was 37.5 mg/dL and abnormal in 43.5% of patients ( 30 ). The lipid abnormalities seen most closely resemble type II-b dyslipidemia ( 31 ). Although elevated LDL-C seems to be a feature of LAL-D, it remains unclear whether or not LAL-D is a cause of early atherosclerosis. Case reports and several autopsy studies have noted aortic stenosis and found narrowing of the coronary artery secondary to atheromatous plaque in patients with LAL-D ( 2 , 32 ). Figure 2. Clinical Presentation of LAL-D. On gross examination, the liver of patients with LAL-D is enlarged and appears greasy. Liver biopsies in paraffin sections have a predominance of microvesicular steatosis, which is uniform. Microvesicular steatosis, per se, is not pathognomonic of LAL-D, being found in other liver diseases as well. Foamy macrophages, containing lipid and ceroid, are present in the sinusoids and portal tracts ( Figure 3 ). Staining for LAMP1, LAMP2, and LIMP2, or with a lysosomal luminal protein (cathepsin D), can assist identifying lipid accumulation as lysosomal, may help differentiate LAL-D from other causes of microvesicular steatosis. Another pathognomonic feature of LAL-D is birefringent cholesterol ester crystals in hepatocytes and Kupffer
