Lysosomal Acid Lipase Deficiency
KEYWORDS: lal-d, disease, patients, pubmed, liver, acid, lipase, lysosomal, deficiency, acid lipase, lysosomal acid, ester, clinical, cholesterol, storage


assist identifying lipid accumulation as lysosomal, may help differentiate LAL-D from other causes of microvesicular steatosis. Another pathognomonic feature of LAL-D is birefringent cholesterol ester crystals in hepatocytes and Kupffer cells, using polarized light on electron microscopy. The liver disease generally progresses to fibrosis followed by micronodular cirrhosis ( 1 , 2 , 33 ). Figure 3. Liver Biopsies in Patients with LAL-D. A) Image of the portal tract and hepatocytes with mainly microvesicular steatosis. With microvesicular steatosis, the fat does not cause the nucleus to be pushed out to the side. B) Larger magnification of the portal tract. FM points to the foamy appearing cytoplasm, these are macrophages with something being stored in them. GC is pointing to a giant cell. DIAGNOSTIC TESTS LAL-D can be diagnosed by demonstrating deficient LAL enzyme activity, as well as by genetic testing identifying mutations of the LIPA gene. Historically, enzyme activity was measured in cultured fibroblasts, peripheral leukocytes, or liver tissue. Various lipase substrates, which were not specific for LAL, were used. In the review by Bernstein, enzyme activities were reported in 114 patients and ranged from undetectable to 16% of normal, with values for most patients being between <1%-10%. However, given assay variability, residual enzyme activity is not predictive of disease severity nor can it be compared from one lab to another ( 1 ). A newer method has been developed to determine LAL activity. This method measures LAL activity in dried blood spots (DBS), and uses Lalistat 2, a highly specific inhibitor of LAL. LAL activity is determined by comparing total lipase activity to lipase activity with Lalistat 2. This method is able to differentiate normal from affected individuals. This DBS technique has advantages over the fibroblast/peripheral leukocyte based test including small sample size, the ability to transport the specimen to the testing facility at ambient temperature, and sample stability ( 34 ). This blood test is available at a number of academic and commercial labs around the world. LIPA gene analysis is also helpful in the diagnosis of LAL-D, with over 100 LIPA mutations having been identified in patients with LAL deficiency ( 7 ). Gene panels for associated diagnoses are becoming available and may allow diagnosis of LAL-D even when clinical awareness is low. DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS Given the clinical presentation of LAL-D, it is important to consider it in the differential diagnosis of patients presenting with characteristic lipid
