Lysosomal Acid Lipase Deficiency
KEYWORDS: lal-d, disease, patients, pubmed, liver, acid, lipase, lysosomal, deficiency, acid lipase, lysosomal acid, ester, clinical, cholesterol, storage


even when clinical awareness is low. DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS Given the clinical presentation of LAL-D, it is important to consider it in the differential diagnosis of patients presenting with characteristic lipid findings and liver disease. The lipid abnormalities of LAL-D are similar to patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) and familial combined hypercholesterolemia. A detailed family history may help differentiate the autosomal dominant HeFH from recessive LAL-D. Expert opinion recommends checking liver transaminases in all children and adults before initiating statin therapy ( 35 ). LAL-D should be considered in patients with elevated liver enzymes and lipid abnormalities. LAL-D is often mistaken for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD); however, LAL-D is associated with mainly microvesicular steatosis and NAFLD with macrovesicular steatosis. LAL-D should be included the differential diagnosis of any non-obese patient with hepatic steatosis, as well as patients with unexplained ALT elevations. MANAGEMENT Disease specific therapy is now available to treat patients with LAL-D. However, prior to the approval of sebelipase alfa (Kanuma ® , Alexion Pharmaceuticals, New Haven, CT), lipid lowering therapy, liver transplant, and stem cell transplant were often tried. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors have been used to lower LDL-C as well as reduce the risk of atherosclerotic heart disease. The first reported use in a patient with LAL-D was in a 9-year-old girl with elevated LDL-C, low HDL-C, and hepatomegaly with a liver biopsy that showed fibrosis and cirrhosis. During therapy with lovastatin, lipid parameters improved and the authors showed a reduction in cholesterol synthesis and decreased secretion of apo B-containing lipoproteins ( 36 ). However, in a report of three patients treated with lovastatin for 12 months, no significant changes were seen in lipid parameters and liver histology ( 37 ). In a review of cases in the literature, 12 patients with LAL-D were treated with HMG CoA reductase inhibitors with multiple liver biopsies. None of the 12 patients had improvement on liver histology, with all 12 patients having progressive liver disease ( 1 ). Both hematopoietic stem cell transplant and liver transplant have been attempted to treat LAL-D, however, neither address the multi-system nature of the disease. Limited information is available about the long-term outcome of patients who have undergone liver transplant ( 1 ). Sebelipase alfa, a recombinant human enzyme-replacement, is FDA approved for the treatment of LAL-D ( 38 ). The amino acid sequence for sebelipase alfa is the same as that of human
