Chapter
KEYWORDS: cost-effectiveness, pain, musculoskeletal, interventions, intervention, developing, conditions, countries, cost, arthritis, costs, evidence, risk, patients, disease


fined to a particular area of the body’s surface, they can be NATURE, CAUSES, AND EPIDEMIOLOGY referred to as regional pain syndromes and may or may not be OFMUSCULOSKELETAL CONDITIONS related to injury or overuse.Ifthese pains are more widespread and are associated with specific tender points,the condition is Osteoarthritis is the most common condition affecting human known as fibromyalgia.Fibromyalgia is well recognized in the joints and causes significant disability. The principal clinical industrial world and has also been noted in China and Malaysia features are pain, which varies in severity and character, and and among Tamil Indians. stiffness. Disability occurs as a result of pain, weakness, joint The major causes of infectious arthritis can be viral, instability,and reduced range ofmotion. bacterial, fungal, or helminthic. Each can present as either a The following are the major forms of inflammatory polyarticular presentation or a monarthritis. Many of the arthritis: helminthic infections present with more generalized aches and pains and involvement ofmuscle tissues as well as joints.All the • rheumatoid arthritis conditions have specific diagnostic features and treatments. • seronegative spondyloarthropathies OPischaracterizedbylowbonemassanddeteriorationin — ankylosing spondylitis the microarchitecture of the bone, which leads to fracture — reactive arthritis afterlowormoderatetrauma.Theconditionisdefinedbydiag- — enteropathic arthritis nosticcriteriabasedonbonemineraldensityasfollows:abone — psoriatic arthritis mineraldensityof morethan(cid:2)2.5standarddeviationsbelow • juvenile chronic arthritis theaveragebonemineraldensityofyoungadultwomen. — systemic The clinical features of OP are primarily due to its major — pauciarticular outcome:fracture.The most important fractures occur in the — polyarticular distal radius,vertebrae,or hip,often following minor trauma. • arthritis associated with systemic connective tissue diseases Vertebral fractures lead to loss of height, kyphosis, and back — systemic lupus erythematosus pain. The incidence of fracture varies with country and with — progressive systemic sclerosis type offracture.Hip fractures are low in African countries but — vasculitis high and increasingly reported in Australasia, Europe, and — polydermatomyositis North America.Fracture risk increases with age and is begin- • crystal arthritis ning to have a significant impact on quality of life,mortality, — gout and health care costs in many countries. — calcium pyrophosphate deposition disease Rickets is caused by a mineralization defect ofnewly formed bone in the growing skeleton.This defect leads to an increase in RA has a prevalence of between 1 and 3 percent in most the amount of nonmineralized bone tissue (osteoid) and a countriesforwhichfiguresareavailable,butitmaybeslightly thinning of the growth plates. This condition produces bone lesscommonintropicalcountries.TheexactetiologyofRAis pain, bone deformation, swelling of the joints, and growth unknown,buttheevidencesuggestsanimmunereaction,and retardation.Rickets is primarily caused by a
