Chapter
KEYWORDS: cost-effectiveness, pain, musculoskeletal, interventions, intervention, developing, conditions, countries, cost, arthritis, costs, evidence, risk, patients, disease


(osteoid) and a countriesforwhichfiguresareavailable,butitmaybeslightly thinning of the growth plates. This condition produces bone lesscommonintropicalcountries.TheexactetiologyofRAis pain, bone deformation, swelling of the joints, and growth unknown,buttheevidencesuggestsanimmunereaction,and retardation.Rickets is primarily caused by a lack ofexposure to itpresentsasaninflammationaffectingjointsandothertissues. sunshine because of climate,pollution,or overuse of clothing Itsclinicalfeaturescanbedividedintothreegroups:constitu- or sunscreens.Rickets is relatively rare in industrial countries, tional, articular, and extra-articular. Constitutional features but it does occur as a consequence of dietary deficiency or involve tiredness,fatigue,weight loss,and fever,and articular excess clothing. featuresinvolveprincipallythesynovialjoints,producingpain Osteomalaciaistheadultequivalentofrickets.Itissimilarly andeventualdeformityanddisability. characterized by an increase in osteoid tissue and causes bone The seronegative spondyloarthropathies are primarily pain and fractures.It occurs primarily in the elderly in Europe inflammatoryarthropathiesandshareseveralcommonfeatures, and North America because of a lack of exposure to sunshine including familial aggregation,asymmetric joint involvement, that is not compensated for by adequate vitamin D intake. Cost-Effectiveness of Interventions for Musculoskeletal Conditions | 965 Osteomalacia may also occur in countries with abundant sun- PREVENTIVE STRATEGIES shine where clothing prevents sun exposure. Osteomalacia is Obesity brought about by increases in sedentary lifestyles and commonly reported among migrants to Western Europe from changes in eating patterns is becoming a major problem world- India and the Middle East. wide.Weight reduction has been demonstrated to reduce pain Backpainaccountsforthemajorityofmusculoskeletaldisease and disability from OA of the knee and other forms of lower presentationstohealthprofessionals,anditslifetimeprevalence limb arthropathy.In OA ofthe knee,weight reduction will not exceeds80percentinmostindustrialcountries.Spinaldisorder only reduce pain and improve mobility,but it can put off the referstoawiderangeofspecificandnonspecificmusculoskeletal time when surgical replacement of the weight-bearing joint is disordersaffectingthespinalcolumn.Theseconditionsinclude necessary.Obesity can also be associated with back pain,and congenital lesions such as scoliosis,infective problems such as weight reduction is an important factor in reducing the recur- osteomyelitis and neoplastic disorder (myeloma or secondary rence ofepisodes ofback pain and in reducing long-term dis- cancers),andtraumaandreferredbackpain. ability and chronic pain. The majority of individuals with acute back pain will Smoking and excessive alcohol use are also associated with improve significantly over a six-week period,although in many OP. Adequate calcium intake (1,000 to 1,500 milligrams per cases the pain may recur.Early diagnosis and treatment,partic- day) has been shown to maintain bone density and reduce the ularly of pain, by means of a modified exercise program will risk of axial (vertebral) fractures. Smoking also increases the reduce long-term morbidity and disability. risk ofdeveloping RA. Musculoskeletal injuries are extremely common,whether in Weight reduction and diet are also important considera- the workplace or associated with sporting activities or with tions in the management of gout.Appropriate nutrition
