Chapter
KEYWORDS: cost-effectiveness, pain, musculoskeletal, interventions, intervention, developing, conditions, countries, cost, arthritis, costs, evidence, risk, patients, disease


Musculoskeletal injuries are extremely common,whether in Weight reduction and diet are also important considera- the workplace or associated with sporting activities or with tions in the management of gout.Appropriate nutrition and daily living. Motor vehicle trauma, household accidents, and exercise underpin many ofthe preventive and treatment strate- occupational accidents occur frequently and are a major cause gies for musculoskeletal disease. ofdamage to the musculoskeletal system. Table 51.3 shows the major genetic and environmental risk factors for musculoskeletal diseases.Lack of exercise and obesity are major contributors to soft tissue disorders,OA,and TREATMENTS backpain.Infectious forms ofmusculoskeletal disease depend on the environment and on the types of organisms that are A range of treatment approaches is available to address the prevalent. multiple aspects ofmusculoskeletal disorders. Table 51.3 Risk Factors for Musculoskeletal Disease Symptomatic Treatments Condition Genetic Environmental Symptomatic treatments for musculoskeletal disease Rheumatoid arthritis HLA DR principally involve pain reduction.Nonpharmacological treat- Seronegative HLA B ments such as massage, heat, and ice, and physiotherapeutic spondyloarthropathy techniques such as ultrasound may be useful in the short term. Osteoarthritis Severe osteochondropathies Obesity Pure analgesic agents such as acetaminophen should be tried Lack of exercise initially;ifno response occurs,compound analgesics or opioid Soft tissue Occupation derivatives,including codeine,may be useful.The side effects of Environment the latter compounds are significant,particularly in the elderly, Crystal arthritis Congenital (Lesch Nyhan) Obesity with constipation and disorientation being the most common. Nutrition Table 51.4 shows the principal modalities of pain relief for Infectious Environment arthritis and soft tissue rheumatism.In many countries,com- Osteoporosis Lack of exercise plementary medicines (traditional medicines) are also used Nutrition extensively, particularly for the management of pain. These Nutrition their worth should be encouraged. Back pain Obesity Recent years have seen the introduction of a number of Occupation specificantiosteoarthriticagents,includingglucosamine,chon- Lack of exercise droitinsulfate,soybeanextract,andinjectablehyaluronicacid Trauma Environment derivatives.Clinicaltrialshavedemonstratedthatglucosamine Source: and chondroitin sulfate are beneficial in terms of painreduc- H H L L A A B D 2 R 7 (cid:1) (cid:1) h h u u m m a a n n l l y y m m p p h h o o c c y y t t e e a a n n t t i i g g e e n n — — ? ? ; . tion in patients with OA, but the effects are relatively small. 966 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Luke B. Connelly, Anthony Woolf, and Peter Brooks Table 51.4 Treatment for Arthritis
