Chapter
KEYWORDS: cost-effectiveness, pain, musculoskeletal, interventions, intervention, developing, conditions, countries, cost, arthritis, costs, evidence, risk, patients, disease


with OA, but the effects are relatively small. 966 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Luke B. Connelly, Anthony Woolf, and Peter Brooks Table 51.4 Treatment for Arthritis Specific Nonsteroidal Disease-modifying antiosteoarthritis anti-inflammatory antirheumatic Category Analgesics agents drugs drugs Pharmacological Acetaminophen Glucosamine Nonspecific NSAIDs Chloroquine treatments Compound analgesics Avocado extract Selective COX-1 sparing Hydroxychloroquine Codeine Soybean agents Sulfasalazine Opioid derivatives Chondroitin sulfate Gold Diacerein D-penicillamine Hyaluronic acid (injectable) Methotrexate Azathioprine Cyclophosphamide Leflunomide Cyclosporine A Corticosteroids Minocycline Biologics: Antitumor necrosis factor Anti-interleukin-1receptorantagonist Nonpharmacological Massage n.a. n.a. n.a. treatments Heat Ice Ultrasound Source:Authors. n.a. (cid:1)not applicable Manycasesof OAandsoft-tissuerheumatismandmostcases most common being methotrexate, hydroxychloroquine, and of the inflammatory forms of arthritis will require an anti- sulfasalazine. Corticosteroids are also used intermittently in inflammatorydrugaswellasorinsteadofapureanalgesic.The many cases.Patients with RA also need to receive information nonsteroidalanti-inflammatorydrugs(NSAIDs)havebeenthe about exercise programs and education on activities of daily mainstayfortreatingarthriticconditionsfornearlyacentury. living so that they can make informed choices in relation to Morerecently,concernabouttheadversegastrointestinalside their therapies. effects of NSAIDs led to the development of COX-1 (cyclo- oxygenase-1)sparingagents.Theseagentshavesimilareffects Osteoporosis on pain relief but a reduced incidence of gastrointestinal side effects,althoughtheymayproduceadverseeventsintherenal A number of therapies are available for OP, including and cardiovascular systems, such as hypertension, decreased calcitonin, calcium, bisphosphonates, hormone replacement renalfunction,andincreasedstrokeandheartattacks. therapy (HRT), and selective estrogen receptor modifiers. selective estrogen receptor modifiers,calcitonin,vitamin D and Rheumatoid Arthritis calcium supplementation, and calcitriol in reducing fracture The medical community now appreciates the importance of rates in high-risk patients.Calcium and vitamin D supplemen- early diagnosis and treatment of RA. All patients with RA tation are recommended to reduce hip fractures among the should be started on a specific antirheumatic drug on diagno- elderly living in assisted living accommodations and nursing sis.These drugs have been shown to be efficacious in random- homes. The recommended daily requirement for calcium ized controlled trials (Gabriel,Coyle,and Moreland 2001),but varies significantly between countries—for example, from each has a quite different spectrum ofadverse side effects.Even 1,000 milligrams per day in the United States to less than with the new biologic agents,few patients with RA actually go 500milligrams per day in India.Recommended levels of vita- into complete remission,and disease activity continues despite min D supplementation range from 500 to 1,000 international a reduction in endpoints,such as the number of painful and units per day,particularly for at-risk aging females.In addition swollen joints, function impairment, and pain. Most patients to these pharmacological interventions,attention to risk factors with RA now receive combinations ofantirheumatic drugs,the for
