Chapter
KEYWORDS: cost-effectiveness, pain, musculoskeletal, interventions, intervention, developing, conditions, countries, cost, arthritis, costs, evidence, risk, patients, disease


per day,particularly for at-risk aging females.In addition swollen joints, function impairment, and pain. Most patients to these pharmacological interventions,attention to risk factors with RA now receive combinations ofantirheumatic drugs,the for falling is also important. Cost-Effectiveness of Interventions for Musculoskeletal Conditions | 967 Surgical treatments vary,from the use ofexternal splints for Another characteristic ofeconomic evaluations in this field fractures,to interventions such as arthroscopy,internal fixation is that they have been performed almost entirely for developed for complicated fractures,and insertion of prosthetic devices, countries.In the sections that follow,we discuss the steps we most commonly total hip and knee replacements.Biomaterials have taken in an attempt to minimize the adverse consequences are increasingly being used to repair bone or cartilage defects in of reliance on the literature for developed countries. younger patients, particularly those with sporting or other Nevertheless,the pragmatic approach that we have adopted is traumatic injuries. subject to some important limitations and caveats. Rehabilitation treatments include a range ofactivities,from Cost-effectiveness is a relative concept, in the sense that single discipline interventions such as physiotherapy to multi- cost-effectiveness ratios (CERs) are useful only for comparing disciplinary programs,particularly for complex problems such alternative ways ofachieving a desired outcome—for instance, as back pain. improving the quality and length of life. Assertions that an intervention is,in its own right,cost-effective are usually based ECONOMIC ISSUES on the notion that a particular CER represents a cutoffbetween those interventions that are efficient and those that are not. An economic discussion ofhealth policies designed to prevent, Thresholds ofthis kind involve an assumption about the value treat, and manage musculoskeletal conditions in developing oflife—for example,that a quality-adjusted life year (QALY) is countries is inherently difficult for a variety of reasons, but worth US$30,000. Nevertheless, the literature routinely uses primarily because of the lack of both epidemiological and cost-effectiveness rules that are based on thresholds without cost-effectiveness data for most developing countries. Some the theoretically necessary explicit consideration of implicit progress has been made by Symmons, Mathers, and Pfleger budget constraints. (2004a, 2004b), who provide incidence estimates for OA and We have tried to avoid using a threshold type ofapproach in RA from epidemiological data on prevalence and relative mor- relation to the discussion of cost-effectiveness. Instead, we tality risks,although data from many areas are scant. critically reviewed the cost-effectiveness literature in rheuma- Perhaps a more important constraint on economic evalua- tology to provide an indication of the relative costs and tions in
