Chapter
KEYWORDS: cost-effectiveness, pain, musculoskeletal, interventions, intervention, developing, conditions, countries, cost, arthritis, costs, evidence, risk, patients, disease


arthritis Inpatient or outpatient No evidence — Telephone help line Yes Yes Nordstrom and others 1996; With good communications and Hughesand others 2002 low levels of access to medical care (Continues on the following page.) Cost-Effectiveness of Interventions for Musculoskeletal Conditions | 969 Table 51.5 Continued Considered Generally cost-effective recommended Conditions and in developed for developing treatment options countries?a countries?b References Additional comments Disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs Auranofin Not effective No Thompson and others 1988 Cyclosporine, azathioprine, Equal efficacy; No Anis and others 1996 Cost, monitoring, and adverse D-penicillamine cyclosporine should events be used after cheaper, more effective drugs Combination therapy Yes, in some Possibly Verhoeven and others 1998 studies Biologics No data No — Need trials in developing countries, but current costs are prohibitive Corticosteroids Yes Possibly Bae and others 2003 Side effects Low back pain Back schools No evidence No Van Tulder 2003 Massage Little evidence Yes, if low cost Furlan and others 2002 Early interventions Yes Yes Gatchel and others 2003 Depends on labor market conditions Ankylosing spondylitis Spa exercise Yes, but ICERs No Van Tubergen and others 2002 Does not provide compelling were sensitive to evidence indirect costs Biologics No No — Unattractive because of their high price Source:Authors. a. Based on a cost-effectiveness threshold value of approximately US$30,000 or other favorable quantitative data on costs and benefits. b. Based on authors’ judgment of generally favorable/unfavorable cost-effectiveness evidence. See text for precise cost-effectiveness (for example, cost per QALY) data. equivalents, we took these as given. Finally, we used the U.S. perimenopausal and postmenopausal women, with no estab- Bureau ofLabor Statistics consumer price index data for 2004 lished history ofOP. to inflate (deflate) the U.S.dollar CERs to 2001 prices.Thus, unless otherwise stated,all price data are expressed in 2001 U.S. Physical Activity. The prophylactic effects of physical activity dollars. are generally well appreciated,and a large proportion of pre- For clarity, we have classified cost-effectiveness results by ventable disease is sometimes attributed to sedentary lifestyles. condition and also according to whether the intervention Katzmarzyk,Gledhill,and Shephard (2000) estimate the rela- constitutes a primary,secondary,or tertiary intervention.The tive risks for those who are inactive compared with those who exception is RA,for which the management protocols are less are physically active for a range of conditions, including OP. amenable to this type ofabstraction.For RA,we found that cat- Their results for Canada suggest mean OP relative risk factors egorizing the evidence according to a taxonomy
