Chapter
KEYWORDS: cost-effectiveness, pain, musculoskeletal, interventions, intervention, developing, conditions, countries, cost, arthritis, costs, evidence, risk, patients, disease


of conditions, including OP. amenable to this type ofabstraction.For RA,we found that cat- Their results for Canada suggest mean OP relative risk factors egorizing the evidence according to a taxonomy that is problem of 1.56 to 1.90 for sedentary versus active women,depending or intervention based was more useful. on race,and indicate that the population-attributable fraction of OP caused by inactivity was approximately 27 percent and accounted for more than 16 percent of the direct economic Primary Interventions costs ofphysical inactivity. This section reviews the evidence on the cost-effectiveness of The effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of programs interventions designed to prevent the onset of OP.The works intended to encourage lifestyle changes are generally not well surveyed analyzed interventions in healthy people, primarily established.Geelhoed,Harris,and Prince (1994) consider the 970 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Luke B. Connelly, Anthony Woolf, and Peter Brooks effect of an intervention in Australia involving exercise and is a dominant long-term therapy for U.S.women at average risk calcium supplements for healthy postmenopausal women to (in this case,a 10 percent lifetime risk) ofbreast cancer:the 5- prevent osteoporotic fractures. They find that the cost of the and 10-year period ICERs were US$37,620 and US$33,472 per intervention was US$96,119 per QALY; however, note that QALY,respectively.For women at a 30 percent or higher risk of theauthors assumed no toxic effect ofthe lifestyle regimen on breast cancer,the ICER for raloxifene versus HRT was less than diseases other than OP. US$4,160,and decreased with risk. Kanis and others (2002) argue that existing evidence on Calcium Plus Vitamin D. Willis (2002) analyzes the cost- raloxifene suggests that it has no significant effect on either effectivenessofadministeringcalciumplusvitaminD tohealthy appendicular fractures or CHD. On the basis of the existing postmenopausalwomeninSwedenanddemonstratesthatthis cost-effectiveness evidence,the use of raloxifene as a prophy- intervention is a cost-saving one for 50-,60-,and 70-year-old lactic intervention for OP in the developing regions has little to womenwithamaternalfamilyhistoryofhipfractureandfor60- recommend it. and70-year-oldwomenwitheitherahistoryoffragilityfractures orasmokinghabit.Indevelopingregions,calciumplusvitamin Secondary Interventions Dtherapymaybeacost-effectiveorcost-savinginterventionif targetedatolder,asymptomaticwomenwithmaternalhistories The following studies were concerned with interventions in ofhipandotherfragilityfractures—especiallythosewhosmoke. peoplewithsomeindicationofOP,eitherfromabonemineral A targeted strategy of this kind is likely to be the most cost- density assessment or a fracture. Some of the general studies effective in regions where environmental uptake of these ele- includeJönssonandothers’(1999)studybasedonSwedishepi- mentsislimitedfordietaryorotherreasons. demiologicaldata.Theauthorsconsidertwodifferentlevelsof interventioncosts,thoseassociatedwithHRTandthoseassoci- Hormone Replacement Therapy. Geelhoed, Harris, and atedwithHRTplusbisphosphonates,andfindthatthehigher- Prince’s (1994) cost-effectiveness analysis of interventions in cost intervention (HRT plus bisphosphonates therapy) was a hypothetical cohort of 100,000 healthy postmenopausal dominantforthe80-year-oldgroupmodeled.Inthecontextof women includes several HRT strategies:(a) estrogen
