Chapter
KEYWORDS: cost-effectiveness, pain, musculoskeletal, interventions, intervention, developing, conditions, countries, cost, arthritis, costs, evidence, risk, patients, disease


trial evidence that this combination also reduces Raloxifene. Armstrong and others’(2001) study also includes appendicular fractures. Assuming a 70 percent compliance a cost-effectiveness analysis of raloxifene use (compared with rate,they find that calcium plus vitamin D was cost saving in HRT and no intervention) in healthy postmenopausal women. 80-year-olds and either cost saving or a low-cost intervention Their results indicate that,by comparison with raloxifene,HRT (mean cost per QALY ofUS$584) in 70-year-olds.For 50- and Cost-Effectiveness of Interventions for Musculoskeletal Conditions | 971 60-year-olds, the mean costs per QALY were US$29,357 and statistically insignificant.When they assume that fluoride has US$13,730,respectively.Thus,in developing regions,calcium aneutral effect on hip fractures,the authors find that the cost plus vitamin D therapy may be an attractive investment for per QALY was in the acceptable range for interventions in elderly women with established OP. the United Kingdom—that is, less than US$46,684. Fluoride isunlikely to be a desirable intervention for preventing OP in Hormone Replacement Therapy. Fleurence, Torgerson, and developing countries. Reid(2002)demonstrateanICERofUS$12,800toUS$19,700 forHRTfortheirScottishsample.Kanisandothers(2002)show Alfacalcidol. Kanis and others (2002) report wide confidence thatwhileHRTwasgenerallyadominanttherapyfor80-year- intervals on the cost per QALY ofan alfacalcidol intervention. olds, with a cost per QALY of US$4,527, it was an expensive This result is largely due to substantial variation in the appar- therapyfor50-year-oldsatacostperQALYofUS$42,940.These ent vertebral, hip, and humeral fracture risk available from resultssuggestthatHRTislikelytobeanattractiveintervention RCTs.Thus,alfacalcidol does not appear to be a good invest- for established OP for some age groups in the developing ment for developing economies; however, additional RCTs regions.Differencesinlifeexpectancyandtheunderlyinginci- are required to reduce the uncertainty regarding the cost- denceofOPwill,however,haveaconsiderablebearingonthe effectiveness ofthis intervention. ageatwhichHRTinterventionsmaybeconsidereddesirablein eachregion. COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERVENTIONS Raloxifene. Kanis and others (2002) find that the cost per FOROA QALY associated with raloxifene was approximately US$835,622 in50-year-olds,andalthoughthiscostgenerallyfell Primary Interventions withage,itremainsanexpensiveintervention.Raloxifenether- Despite clear evidence ofan association ofOA with obesity and apyisnotanattractiveinvestmentforthedevelopingregions. ofa reduction in symptoms and progression ofthe disease with weight reduction,no formal studies ofthe cost-effectiveness of Calcitonin and Bisphosphonates. The cost-effectiveness evi- this intervention are available. dence on nasal calcitonin is unambiguous.It is a particularly expensive intervention and represents an unattractive invest- Secondary Interventions ment ofhealth care resources even in wealthy developed coun- tries.The most favorable cost-effectiveness results for nasal cal- Patient education programs, exercise programs, medications, citonin come from a study by Coyle and others (2001), who and synovial fluid replacement have demonstrated varying find that both calcitonin and alendronate reduced wrist, hip, levels ofcost-effectiveness. and vertebral fractures in postmenopausal women but that etidronate had no such
