Chapter
KEYWORDS: cost-effectiveness, pain, musculoskeletal, interventions, intervention, developing, conditions, countries, cost, arthritis, costs, evidence, risk, patients, disease


and synovial fluid replacement have demonstrated varying find that both calcitonin and alendronate reduced wrist, hip, levels ofcost-effectiveness. and vertebral fractures in postmenopausal women but that etidronate had no such effect on hip and wrist fractures.The Education Programs. Lord and others (1999) evaluated the ICERs for nasal calcitonin for 65-year-old women for five years cost-effectiveness of a nurse-led education program for oftherapy were US$34,166 per QALY compared with no ther- patients with OA of the knee in the United Kingdom, using apy and US$23,952 per QALY compared with etidronate.The usual care as the comparator.They found that the costs for the results of this study were sensitive to the underlying fracture intervention group were greater than for the control group,but rate. that the outcomes for the two groups were not statistically Kanis and others (2002,iv) also conclude that calcitonin is different. “not cost-effective at any age largely because of its costs.” The cost-effectiveness of education programs for OA Indeed,their estimates ofcosts per QALY for 70- and 80-year- patients in the developing countries is unknown. Education old women, the groups for which the intervention is most programs will be subject to diminishing returns, and their cost-effective, equate to approximately US$245,373 and marginal effectiveness may depend directly on the basic level US$181,109, respectively. By contrast, both alendronate and of education of those targeted. Though the scant evidence etidronate were dominating interventions for 80-year-olds.At presented here suggests that education programs may not be current prices, calcitonin therapy is not an attractive invest- cost-effective,further research on their effectiveness and cost- ment for the developing regions. effectiveness in developing countries is required. Fluoride. Kanis and others (2002) find that fluoride was gen- Exercise Programs. Patrick and others (2001) analyzed the erally a dominant intervention in women with established OP, cost-effectiveness ofan aquatic exercise program for the man- because it appears to decrease the risk ofvertebral fracture but agement of OA and compare it with usual care. The study to increase the risk ofhip fracture,although the latter result is involved a 20-week randomized trial ofaquatic classes for 249 972 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Luke B. Connelly, Anthony Woolf, and Peter Brooks adults age 55 to 75 with a confirmed diagnosis of OA. The Tertiary Interventions results were generally unfavorable.In many cases (24 percent of Total joint replacement for arthritis is one of the most com- the bootstrapped estimates),the exercise program was domi- monly
