Chapter
KEYWORDS: cost-effectiveness, pain, musculoskeletal, interventions, intervention, developing, conditions, countries, cost, arthritis, costs, evidence, risk, patients, disease


Tertiary Interventions results were generally unfavorable.In many cases (24 percent of Total joint replacement for arthritis is one of the most com- the bootstrapped estimates),the exercise program was domi- monly performed and cost-effective operations in developed nated by usual care, and the 95 percent confidence interval countries.In developing countries,however,the availability of ranged from dominated to US$498,700 per QALY gained. this intervention is constrained by the availability of surgeons Evidence of the cost-effectiveness of exercise programs for able to perform the operation.Ifthe surgical expertise is avail- established OA is currently meager.Nevertheless,as part of a able,the cost-effectiveness oftotal joint replacement is likely to diversified portfolio,low-cost exercise programs may still play be as good as in Australia,Europe,and North America. a useful role in the aging populations ofdeveloping regions and confer some benefit on those with established OA,particularly ifthey are associated with weight reduction. Total Hip Arthroplasty. Chang, Pellissier, and Hazen (1996) assess the cost-effectiveness of total hip arthroplasty in vari- Nonselective NSAIDs. In a U.K. study, McCabe and others ousage groups compared with nonsurgical management.Their (1998)considerthecost-effectivenessoftheuseoffivedifferent analyses suggest that, in 60-year-old white women, total hip NSAIDs (nabumetone, diclofenac, ibuprofen, piroxicam, and arthroplasty is dominant compared with nonsurgical manage- naproxen)inRAandOA.Takingtheleastandmostexpensiveof ment. For 85-year-old men, the cost per QALY is US$6,893. thefiveNSAIDs—namely,ibuprofenandnabumetone,which Generally,theirresultssuggestthat,whentotalhiparthroplasty werealsoatthehigh-andlow-riskendsofthespectruminterms is used as a treatment for OA of the hip with significant of adverse gastrointestinal events—the authors conclude that functional limitation,it is cost-effective. nabumetoneisnotacost-savingprescription. Knee Replacement. Segal and others (2004) review a number Gastroprotective Agents. The most common side effects of of interventions for OA and suggest a cost per QALY of NSAIDs are gastrointestinal;therefore,evaluating therapies to US$5,407 for knee replacement in Australia. reduce these events is important.Van Dieten and others (2000) review the literature on the cost-effectiveness ofmisoprostol in reducing adverse gastrointestinal events in OA and RA patients who take NSAIDs. Unfortunately, the reviewed studies evi- COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERVENTIONS dently reported CERs based on such nongeneralizable mea- FORRA sures as cost per patient ratios. Nevertheless, van Dieten and others (2000) argue that strong evidence exists that gastropro- The result of a decade of vigorous debate about the appropri- tection is cost-effective for OA and RA patients taking NSAID ate treatment strategies for RA appears to be a consensus that therapy.This finding appears to be true in relation to several of patients with moderate or severe RA should be treated early the reviewed studies,which produced estimates ofcost savings and aggressively, if
