Chapter
KEYWORDS: cost-effectiveness, pain, musculoskeletal, interventions, intervention, developing, conditions, countries, cost, arthritis, costs, evidence, risk, patients, disease


finding appears to be true in relation to several of patients with moderate or severe RA should be treated early the reviewed studies,which produced estimates ofcost savings and aggressively, if possible, by combining several disease- derived from prophylaxis. However, van Dieten and others’ modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) (Maetzel and (2000) study is at variance with that ofGabriel,Campion,and others 2002). O’Fallon (1994),who conclude that misoprostol was generally The complex medical management of RA can involve the dominant in that it provided no greater quality-of-life use of a large number of agents,including NSAIDs,low-dose improvement and cost more. corticosteroids, and a long list of DMARDs. The economic literature for interventions in RA has,for good reason,tended Synovial Fluid Replacement. In a Canadian study, Torrance to focus on the cost-effectiveness of the alternatives that arise and others (2002) analyzed the cost-effectiveness of synovial when a particular management strategy fails.In that sense,the fluid replacement in a randomized,one-year,multicenter trial intervention-based taxonomy used in earlier sections of this of255 patients with OA ofthe knee.Patients were randomized chapter is a less helpful way to characterize some ofthe contri- to appropriate care with hylan G-F 20 or to appropriate care butions to this field.Thus,the subsections used in this part of without hylan G-F 20.The mean QALY gain in the intervention the chapter reflect at times a problem-based taxonomy and at group was 0.071, and the resulting ICER was US$5,233 per other times an intervention-based classification. QALY (with similar results from sensitivity analyses).However, the relevant incremental comparators in developing regions are Treatment Modalities likely to be quite different from those used by the foregoing study. Also, the relative price of this product is likely to be Oneofthechallengescommontothedevelopingworldisthat higher.Thus,we cannot find strong grounds for recommend- specializedmedicalexpertiseisoftenscarce.Thus,theconsider- ing that developing regions adopt this intervention. ation of a variety of treatment modalities is worthwhile, Cost-Effectiveness of Interventions for Musculoskeletal Conditions | 973 especiallythosethatinvolvelaborsubstitutionbetweenspecial- from a six-month RCT of 311 patients with RA.The authors ist and nonspecialist categories. Unfortunately, relatively few report that the cost of auranofin was approximately US$692 studies of this kind, let alone large randomized studies, are greater than for the placebo treatment,but the lack ofefficacy availableforRA. ofauranofin means that it is now rarely used in RA treatment. In a nonrandomized study of 26 patients in Finland, Nordstrom and others (1996) compare the costs oftreating RA Cyclosporine, Azathioprine, and D-penicillamine. In a patients either as inpatients or as outpatients.Even though the Canadian
