Chapter
KEYWORDS: cost-effectiveness, pain, musculoskeletal, interventions, intervention, developing, conditions, countries, cost, arthritis, costs, evidence, risk, patients, disease


was probably underpowered.Despite sulfasalazine, etanercept, hydroxychloroquine, methotrexate, the lack of good cost-effective data,the standard approach to leflunomide, and gold compounds. Gabriel, Coyle, and RA treatment is to use combination therapy with DMARDs Moreland (2001) provide a comprehensive review ofthe effec- and to maintain corticosteroids at 7.5 milligrams per day or less tiveness and cost-effectiveness of DMARDs,including a com- ifpossible. prehensive literature search in which they retrieved 30 articles from 500 identified for possible relevance. Only six of those Biologics. A number of trials have shown that the biologic papers included economic evaluations, and of those six, only agents (tumor necrosis factor inhibitors and others) are the three included measures of both benefits and costs.Only one most effective agents available for reducing inflammation in of the articles used a nonclinical outcome measure (QALYs). RA.Their cost (US$10,000 to US$15,000 per patient per year); Thus,the cost-effectiveness evidence for the use of DMARDs mode of administration (intramuscular, subcutaneous, or by totreat patients with RA is generally scant. intravenous infusion); and potential side effects (particularly The three full economic evaluations of DMARDs that the reactivation oftuberculosis) preclude their use in develop- Gabriel,Coyle,and Moreland identified were studies ofauran- ing countries. Until trials are carried out in developing envi- ofin (oral gold) (Thompson and others 1988), cyclosporine ronments and are combined with robust cost-effectiveness (Anis and others 1996),and combined therapy (Verhoeven and data,we cannot recommend their use. others 1998). Corticosteroids. Bae and others (2003) analyze the cost- Auranofin. Thompson and others (1988) compare the cost- effectiveness of low-dose corticosteroids for the long-term effectiveness of auranofin with that of a placebo using data treatment of RA. They compare the results of corticosteroid 974 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Luke B. Connelly, Anthony Woolf, and Peter Brooks treatment with treatment using any DMARDs plus a cortico- nonmeasurement of indirect costs may introduce substantial steroidandwithtreatmentusingDMARDsandNSAIDs.Their bias into estimates of the cost-effectiveness of interventions. modelingincludesaconsiderationoftheratesofrelevantside This problem is potentially serious because, in some cases, effectsofthetreatments.TheyalsolookatNSAID-usescenarios investigators have estimated the indirect costs oflow back pain thatincludedProtonPumpInhibitorprophylaxisandtheuseof at more than twice those of the direct medical costs (Bolten, COX-2–specificinhibitorsratherthannonspecificNSAIDs. Kempel-Waibel,and Pforringer 1998). The results generally showed that corticosteroids dominate nonselective NSAIDs in terms of their cost-effectiveness.The Back Schools. Van Tulder and others (2003) review 15 RCTs of exceptions were when the adverse events rate for cortico- back schools for patients with recurrent and chronic low back steroids was assumed to
