Chapter
KEYWORDS: cost-effectiveness, pain, musculoskeletal, interventions, intervention, developing, conditions, countries, cost, arthritis, costs, evidence, risk, patients, disease


and others (2003) review 15 RCTs of exceptions were when the adverse events rate for cortico- back schools for patients with recurrent and chronic low back steroids was assumed to be 1.5 times that ofthe base case and pain,buttheyconsideronlythreeofthesetobeofhighquality. when the comparators’ adverse events rates were assumed to They conclude that the evidence is only moderate that back be0.5 to 1.0 times the base case rate.In the latter case,the cost schools have better short-term effects than other treatments for per QALY was US$114,168, and in the former, NSAIDs were chronic back pain. They also find some evidence that back dominant.The comparison ofCOX-2–specific inhibitors with schools are more effective than placebos or waiting list controls corticosteroids produced a higher-cost and higher-utility in occupational settings.However,the authors note that little is outcome: the resulting incremental cost per QALY was currently known about the cost-effectiveness of back schools. US$132,880. Thus,evidence is insufficient to provide a recommendation on The authors also produced useful age-specific estimates the probable cost-effectiveness of back schools for low back of the cost-effectiveness of the two alternative treatment pain in developing countries; however, early intervention, approaches. Their ICERs show that corticosteroids dominate education,and exercise programs should be encouraged. for the management of50- and 60-year-olds with RA.For 40-, 30-,and 20-year-olds,the ICERs were US$11,258,US$30,938, Massage. Furlan and others (2002) examine the effectiveness and US$46,981,respectively. and cost-effectiveness of a variety of massage techniques for The evidence suggests that a management strategy of nonspecific low back pain by comparing them with (a) sham or DMARDs plus low-close corticosteroids is a less costly and placebo massage,(b) other medical treatments,or (c) no treat- more effective strategy than DMARDs plus NSAIDs in older ment.The authors conclude that massage might be beneficial age groups,largely because of the higher risks of adverse gas- for patients with subacute and chronic nonspecific low back trointestinal events in those groups.For developing countries, pain,especially when combined with exercises and education. a relevant question to consider is the extent to which life The evidence suggests that acupuncture massage is more expectancy and risk factors for adverse gastrointestinal events effective than classic massage, but this finding needs to be will differ from the age groups Bae and others (2003) studied. confirmed. Corticosteroid-induced OP is also a long-term risk, but for Little is known about the cost-effectiveness of massage for women with RA starting corticosteroid therapy,watchful wait- low back pain.On the basis of the existing evidence,in coun-
