Chapter
KEYWORDS: cost-effectiveness, pain, musculoskeletal, interventions, intervention, developing, conditions, countries, cost, arthritis, costs, evidence, risk, patients, disease


be considered for end-stage joint damage. effectiveness of a spa exercise intervention. The intervention Simple analgesics can be accessible over the counter or through also note that the ICERs were sensitive to variations in assump- requires resources in terms of physical facilities, financial tions about indirect costs. resources,and expertise.The cost-effectiveness ofarthroplasty Although a spa exercise program is apparently beneficial is greatly affected by complications such as infection or failure and may even be considered cost-effective for ankylosing of the prosthesis, both of which are related to inadequate spondylitis sufferers in developed countries,the current cost- resources. effectiveness evidence does not provide a compelling case for Pain management should be available to those who have widespread adoption ofthe intervention in developing regions. disabling symptoms and is dependent on access to drugs and Patients, however, should be encouraged to exercise— education with respect to the benefits and risks. Access to especially to swim. The cost-effectiveness of tumor necrosis arthroplasty will be the greatest challenge,given the increasing factor–inhibiting drugs is not yet evident for ankylosing needs in the developing world brought about by aging popula- spondylitis, but the drugs are currently unattractive invest- tions and increases in other risk factors such as reduced physi- ments for developing countries because oftheir high price. cal activity and increasing obesity. 976 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Luke B. Connelly, Anthony Woolf, and Peter Brooks Rheumatoid Arthritis Various local programs aim at identifying and treating those with OP.Their costs relate not only to diagnostic tests but also The greatest successes in recent years include advances in man- to treatment. The cost of bisphosphonates is high compared aging RA and the ability to control disease activity;to prevent with the income levels in those countries likely to experience tissue damage; and to improve function, activities, and the greatest increase in the burden ofOP.The speed ofbenefits participation. Methotrexate is a readily accessible, effective antirheumatic drug. Monitoring full blood count and liver fracture risk reduction within 12 to 18 months. The role of function is recommended, but the rarity of serious adverse HRT is not clear at present,but because ofthe likely increased events may necessitate a review ofthis recommendation ifthe risk ofcardiovascular disease and strokes outweighing the ben- costs and difficulties of monitoring would deny access to the efit offracture prevention,it is not currently recommended for drug. Symptomatic therapy with NSAIDs and multidiscipli- preventing OP in unselected women.However,the benefit-risk
