Chapter
KEYWORDS: cost-effectiveness, pain, musculoskeletal, interventions, intervention, developing, conditions, countries, cost, arthritis, costs, evidence, risk, patients, disease


(Africa, be achieved. Asia, and South America for RA and Africa, Eastern Europe, and South America for OA).Additional primary measurement Osteoporosis is required to produce a more accurate picture ofinterregional The prevention offractures related to OP is based on a “bone- and intraregional epidemiological variations. This deficiency healthy” lifestyle of individuals who have adequate dietary limits estimates of the overall burdens of the various muscu- calcium,vitamin D,and weight-bearing exercise and who avoid loskeletal conditions and the extent to which they might be smoking and excessive alcohol consumption. Implementing reduced. such measures requires raising public awareness and educating The studies of the Community-Oriented Program for primary care personnel.In addition,those at high risk offrac- Control of Rheumatic Disease (COPCORD) (Darmawan and ture who would benefit from a specific intervention need to be others 1995) are,in part,meeting this need.The Bone and Joint identified by the presence of risk factors, including low bone Monitor Project is also undertaking initiatives to standardize density. The limitation to this approach is a lack of access to data collection and reporting in epidemiological studies to bone densitometry,in which case the decision to treat may have improve the collation and comparison ofneeded epidemiolog- to be made on clinical grounds alone.The occurrence of low- ical data.Global burden-of-disease data concentrate on specific trauma fracture is a good indicator ofOP and,in the presence diagnoses,but a far greater burden that has yet to be estimated particular,multiple vertebral fractures are virtually diagnostic characterized by pain with disability. More research is neces- ofOP. sary in this area. Cost-Effectiveness of Interventions for Musculoskeletal Conditions | 977 Evaluation of Existing Interventions being achieved because of a lack of prioritization and resources.Strategies for preventing musculoskeletal conditions Few reliable economic evaluations of available interventions have a wide range of other health benefits; they need to be have been done. One reason is that a surprising number of jointly promoted,and the additional benefits need to be better interventions have inadequate trial data or efficacy measures, recognized. The various determinants of ill health—such as and many reasonably well-established interventions need to be lack ofphysical activity or obesity—that pose a risk to muscu- tested in trials against appropriate comparators. The hetero- loskeletal health need to be quantified along with their other geneity ofcomparators used in different economic evaluations detrimental effects.The benefits and cost-effectiveness ofmod- and other methodological differences pose material risks to comparisons of the costs and consequences of different or modifying
