Chapter
KEYWORDS: cost-effectiveness, pain, musculoskeletal, interventions, intervention, developing, conditions, countries, cost, arthritis, costs, evidence, risk, patients, disease


ofcomparators used in different economic evaluations detrimental effects.The benefits and cost-effectiveness ofmod- and other methodological differences pose material risks to comparisons of the costs and consequences of different or modifying the outcome ofmusculoskeletal conditions,need interventions for musculoskeletal conditions, and some stan- to be quantified and compared with strategies that focus on dardization is needed. personal interventions. Many studies have used only clinical outcomes and not life years saved or QALYs as outcome measures.Positive steps are being taken to correct the situation. The Outcome Measures Implementation in Rheumatology Clinical Trials Economics Working Group Improving musculoskeletal health requires implementing (Gabriel, Tugwell, and Drummond 2002) has made some strategies for preventing and controlling certain diseases and progress toward redressing this problem in the rheumatology environmental risk factors.Selected strategies must be in line economics literature.Although work is not yet complete,this with local needs, priorities, and resources. Informed decision concerted approach to standardization holds promise for the making at the policy level requires data on the burden and the literature. avertable burden of musculoskeletal conditions,plus the costs Avertable Proportion of the Burden for particular populations by strategy.Changes in local demo- graphics that are likely to increase the effect ofmusculoskeletal New data are needed to estimate the burden that could be conditions also need to be considered before developing plans averted by implementing the proposed strategies. Available for implementation. data are currently limited and relate predominantly to individ- ual interventions in short-term clinical trials with outcomes CONCLUSIONS: PROMISES AND PITFALLS that do not enable reliable estimates of the avertable burden. Interventions need to be evaluated,often in combination with Musculoskeletal diseases are the most common cause of outcome measures that enable the burden on individuals and chronic disability worldwide and will become increasingly society to be measured meaningfully and in more naturalistic important as aging populations require relief from chronic circumstances.Concordance cannot be assumed,in particular pain and disability. One of the characteristic musculoskeletal for these largely chronic conditions, and it is influenced by diseases is that they are not fatal and do not have the high many personal and environmental factors. The impact of profile of other conditions, such as cancer and heart disease. musculoskeletal conditions is pervasive,underrecognized,and However,they are preventable in many cases,and simple inter- underestimated.Therefore,data are needed not only on what is ventions, such as maintaining ideal body weight and partici- theoretically avertable, but also on what is being averted and pating in an exercise
