Chapter
KEYWORDS: cost-effectiveness, pain, musculoskeletal, interventions, intervention, developing, conditions, countries, cost, arthritis, costs, evidence, risk, patients, disease


are needed not only on what is ventions, such as maintaining ideal body weight and partici- theoretically avertable, but also on what is being averted and pating in an exercise program,may have a significant effect on the reasons for any disparities. long-term morbidity. However, the field of musculoskeletal disease is thwarted by a significant lack ofepidemiological and Resource Requirements outcome data across a broad spectrum of geography, condi- The implementation of strategies for preventing and control- tion,and treatments. ling musculoskeletal conditions is multisectoral, and the The designation of 2000–10 as the Bone and Joint Decade resource consequences ofthis need to be established.Different by the United Nations,WHO,and 60 countries will certainly models for the delivery of a strategy may have different help raise the profile ofthese diseases in local communities.All resource implications.These variations need to be explored to nations have a significant opportunity to embrace the decade, ensure appropriate investment and provision ofresources. to ensure that their populations understand the importance of these diseases,and to encourage the training of a range of Likely Effectiveness of Interventions on Both Health and health professionals to deal with this burgeoning epidemic. Nonhealth Benefits Improving knowledge among health workers at all levels Musculoskeletal conditions are common and have a major about musculoskeletal conditions is important for early diag- impact on individuals and society; however, they are inade- nosis and intervention,as is the provision ofaccess to special- quately treated,and the success of simple interventions is not ist services,such as orthopedic surgery.Simple programs that 978 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Luke B. Connelly, Anthony Woolf, and Peter Brooks emphasize the importance of obesity and lack of exercise as Fleurence,R.,D.J.Torgerson,and D.M.Reid.2002.“Cost-Effectiveness predictors of poor musculoskeletal outcomes are low cost, of Hormone Replacement Therapy for Fracture Prevention in Young Postmenopausal Women: An Economic Analysis Based on a but their implementation and their influence on health out- Prospective Cohort Study.”Osteoporosis International13 (8):637–43. comes need to be assessed in properly conducted studies. Furlan, A. D., L. Brosseau, M. Imamura, and E. Irvan. 2002.“Massage Medications—particularly analgesic and anti-inflammatory for Low-Back Pain: A Systematic Review within the Framework of drugs for arthritis and pain and vitamin D and calcium sup- the Cochrane Collaboration Back Review Group.” Spine 27 (17): 1896–910. plementation to prevent OP—need to be widely available. Gabriel,S.E.,M.E.Campion,and W.M.O’Fallon.1994.“A Cost-Utility Exciting advances in the treatment of inflammatory forms Analysis ofMisoprostol Prophylaxis for Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients of arthritis with biologics
