Chapter
KEYWORDS: cost-effectiveness, pain, musculoskeletal, interventions, intervention, developing, conditions, countries, cost, arthritis, costs, evidence, risk, patients, disease


plementation to prevent OP—need to be widely available. Gabriel,S.E.,M.E.Campion,and W.M.O’Fallon.1994.“A Cost-Utility Exciting advances in the treatment of inflammatory forms Analysis ofMisoprostol Prophylaxis for Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients of arthritis with biologics need to be evaluated from an eco- Receiving Nonsteroidal Antiinflammatory Drugs.” Arthritis and nomic perspective, particularly in developing nations, where Rheumatology37 (3):333–41. Economic Review of Disease-Modifying Antirheumatic Drugs.” culosis is much higher than in developed countries.Currently, Pharmacoeconomics19 (7):715–28. biologic agents are not cost-effective in developing countries, Gabriel,S.E.,P.Tugwell,and M.Drummond.2002.“Progress towards but they may be in the future.Access to hip and knee replace- an OMERACT-ILAR Guideline for Economic Evaluations in ments, probably the most cost-effective surgical intervention Rheumatology.”Annals ofthe Rheumatic Diseases61 (4):370–73. available,is important but depends on the availability ofa qual- Gatchel, R. J., P. B. Polatin, C. Noe, M. Gardea, C. Pulliam, and ified staff. J. Thompson. 2003. “Treatment- and Cost-Effectiveness of Early Intervention for Acute Low-Back Pain Patients: A One-Year Musculoskeletaldiseaseswillcontinuetopresentachallenge Prospective Study.” Journal of Occupational Rehabilitation 13 (1): to the health systems of both developing and developed 1–9. countries,butaswesolvesomeoftheissuesrelatedtocommu- Geelhoed,E.,A.Harris,and R.Prince.1994.“Cost-Effectiveness Analysis nicable diseases,the hope is that more resources will become ofHormone Replacement Therapy and Lifestyle Intervention for Hip Fracture.”Australian Journal ofPublic Health18 (2):153–60. availablefortacklingtheburgeoningepidemicofnoncommu- Hazes,M.,and A.D.Woolf.2000.The Bone and Joint Decade 2000–2010. nicabledisease,includingmusculoskeletalconditions. Journal ofRheumatology27:1–3. Hughes,R.A.,M.E.Carr,A.Huggett,and C.E.Thwaites.2002.“Review of the Function ofa Telephone Helpline in the Treatment ofOutpatients with Rheumatoid Arthritis.”Annals ofthe Rheumatic Diseases61 (4): ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 341–45. Jitapunkul,S.,C.Kunanusont,W.Phoolcharoen,P.Suriyawongpaisal,and We gratefully acknowledge the capable research assistance pro- S.Ebrahim.2003.“Determining Public Health Priorities for an Ageing vided by Richard Supangan. Population:The Value ofa Disability Survey.”Southeast Asian Journal ofTropical Medicine and Public Health34 (4):929–36. Jönsson,B.,J.Kanis,A.Dawson,A.Oden,and O.Johnell.1999.“Effect and Offset ofEffect ofTreatments for Hip Fracture on Health Outcomes.”
