Chapter 28: Urologic Diseases and Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, women, type diabetes, study, men, urinary, health, incontinence, luts, sexual, years, table, urinary incontinence, dysfunction


28–1 CHAPTER 28 UROLOGIC DISEASES AND SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION IN DIABETES Aruna V. Sarma, PhD, Mary K. Townsend, ScD, Francine Grodstein, ScD, Benjamin N. Breyer, MD, and Jeanette S. Brown, MD Dr. Aruna V. Sarma is Associate Professor, Department of Urology, University of Michigan Health System, Department of Epidemiology, University of Michigan School of Public Health, Ann Arbor, MI; Dr. Mary K. Townsend is Instructor, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women’s Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; Dr. Francine Grodstein is Professor, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women’s Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Department of Epidemiology, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA; Dr. Benjamin N. Breyer is Associate Professor, Department of Urology, University of California San Francisco (UCSF), San Francisco, CA; Dr. Jeanette S. Brown is Professor, UCSF Departments of Obstetrics, Gynecology, and Reproductive Science, Urology, and Epidemiology, and Director, UCSF Clinical and Translational Science Institute Comprehensive Mentoring Program and UCSF Women’s Health Clinical Research Center, San Francisco, CA. Received in final form September 30, 2014. SUMMARY Diabetes impacts the function and structure of the lower urinary tract, including the bladder and prostate, which can lead to complica­ tions such as urinary incontinence, poor bladder emptying, sexual dysfunction, lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS), and urinary tract infection. Although urologic complications increase with age in the general population, urologic complications are even more common in individuals with diabetes compared to those with normal glucose. It has been estimated that risk of urologic complications is increased 25% to 200% in men and about 50% to 200% in women among those with diabetes compared to those with normal glucose. In men with diabetes, common urologic complications include LUTS and benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), a histological diagnosis associated with growth of the prostate gland. LUTS, the most common clinical manifestation of BPH, occur more frequently among men with diabetes compared to men with normal glucose. Similarly, men with diabetes more commonly have BPH. The interplay of LUTS, BPH, and diabetes remains unclear. Erectile dysfunction (ED) is also common in men with diabetes, with a prevalence estimated at 23%–90%. Although less studied, type 1 diabetes appears to increase the risk of ED in a similar fashion as type 2 diabetes. In women, sound epidemiologic evidence from several studies has linked type 1 and type 2 diabetes and urinary incontinence. Prevalence of incontinence has been estimated to be about 50%–200% more common in women with
