Chapter 28: Urologic Diseases and Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, women, type diabetes, study, men, urinary, health, incontinence, luts, sexual, years, table, urinary incontinence, dysfunction


evidence from several studies has linked type 1 and type 2 diabetes and urinary incontinence. Prevalence of incontinence has been estimated to be about 50%–200% more common in women with type 2 diabetes than in women with normal glucose. Data on the incidence of incontinence reflect a similar pattern. There is also evidence that women with prediabetes are at higher risk for incontinence. Less research has been conducted on women with type 1 diabetes; however, incontinence also appears to be more prevalent among women with type 1 diabetes compared with women without diabetes. Health care providers should be alert for urologic complications among their patients with diabetes because these conditions are common and often go unrecognized and, thus, undertreated. Future research is needed to identify mechanisms and effective treatment and prevention strategies to decrease the psychosocial, medical, and economic costs of these chronic disorders in many men and women with diabetes. INTRODUCTION This chapter focuses on the relation­ ships between diabetes and common or otherwise significant urologic disorders. The first sections examine associations of diabetes with lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS), benign prostatic hyper­ plasia (BPH), and erectile dysfunction (ED) in men. Classification, pathophysi­ ology, and data sources and limitations are discussed. The remaining sections evaluate and summarize the clinical and epidemiologic literature as described above that pertains to diabetes and urinary incontinence and sexual dysfunc­ tion in women. 28–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition LOWER URINARY TRACT SYMPTOMS IN MEN WITH DIABETES In men, LUTS are common, age-related complaints that are most often attributed to the histologic enlargement of the pros­ tate, also known as BPH. BPH is the most common benign neoplasm in American men and, indeed, most often manifests clinically as the progressive development of LUTS, which are variably comprised of obstructive voiding symptoms that include urinary hesitancy, delay in initiating micturition, intermittency, involuntary interruption of voiding, weak urinary stream, straining to void, sensation of incomplete emptying, and terminal drib­ bling, as well as bladder storage symptoms typically represented by urinary frequency, nocturia, urgency, incontinence, and bladder pain or dysuria (1). Similar urinary symptoms also result from diabetes, and accumulating evidence indicates that diabetes may be associated with BPH. DESCRIPTION, MEASUREMENT, CLASSIFICATION Although several pathologies may poten­ tially contribute to the generation of BPH-associated LUTS, BPH may induce bladder outlet obstruction by two general mechanisms: static and dynamic. The static mechanism involves hyperplastic stromal and epithelial prostate
