Chapter 28: Urologic Diseases and Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, women, type diabetes, study, men, urinary, health, incontinence, luts, sexual, years, table, urinary incontinence, dysfunction


tially contribute to the generation of BPH-associated LUTS, BPH may induce bladder outlet obstruction by two general mechanisms: static and dynamic. The static mechanism involves hyperplastic stromal and epithelial prostate growth, which over time, compresses the prostatic urethra. The dynamic mechanism entails increased tone of prostate smooth muscle, which is mediated by the alpha-1 adren­ ergic receptor. Stimulation of the alpha-1 receptors induces a contraction and corresponding reduction in urethral lumen diameter. Obstruction of the bladder outlet induces two pathologic changes in the structure of the bladder that may produce LUTS. First, decreased bladder compliance causes urinary frequency and urgency. Second, decreased bladder muscle contractility—resulting from chronic tonicity as the bladder labors to overcome increased urethral pres­ sures—may precipitate urinary hesitancy, decreased force of stream, and high residual volumes (2,3). These relatively straightforward explana­ tions belie the complexity of diagnosing and researching a disease that most often presents with highly subjective symp­ toms, has few robust objective markers, and overlaps considerably with other conditions that produce urinary symp­ toms. In fact, among men with diabetes, similar urinary symptoms may also result from bladder dysfunction due to dener­ vation and poor detrusor contractility and/or detrusor overactivity resulting from neuropathy, which increases hyperactivity of the detrusor. The failure to differentiate symptoms due to BPH from those due to simple LUTS in diabetic men has contrib­ uted to the confusing evidence seen in the literature (4). The mainstay of LUTS measurement in clinical practice, outcomes research, and clinical trials is the American Urological Association Symptom Index (AUASI), a validated symptom index developed in collaboration with the Patient Outcome Research Team for Prostate Disease (5). The AUASI is a standardized, validated, seven-item, self-reported index of LUTS in men that asks the respondent about the severity of their LUTS over the last 4 weeks on a scale of 0–5. Men are typically classified as having mild, moderate, or severe symptoms based on their summed AUASI scores, with mild symptom scores in the range of 0–7, moderate symptoms 8–19, and severe symptom scores ≥20 (5). DATA SOURCES, LIMITATIONS The understanding of BPH/LUTS and diabetes in men is based primarily on national and regional datasets, which include men with self-reported type 2 diabetes, as well as one randomized clinical trial on type 1 diabetes (Tables 28.1–28.3). While several international studies have examined these associations and some are discussed briefly, the majority of data presented are from U.S.
