Chapter 28: Urologic Diseases and Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, women, type diabetes, study, men, urinary, health, incontinence, luts, sexual, years, table, urinary incontinence, dysfunction


enrolled men at the 10th and 17th EDIC study visits who agreed to answer questions about LUTS. DCCT: Intensive treatment with insulin ≥3 times per day; conventional treatment with 1–2 insulin injections per day. UroEDIC: Observational study Diabetes complications DCCT: mean 6.5 years EDIC: 20 years 550 Insulin dependence, as evidenced by deficient C-peptide secretion Self-report LUTS BPH, benign prostatic hyperplasia; DCCT, Diabetes Control and Complications Trial; EDIC, Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications Study; LUTS, lower urinary tract symptoms; RCT, randomized controlled trial: UroEDIC, ancillary study of urologic complications in the DCCT/EDIC cohort. SOURCE: Reference is listed within the table. 28–4 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition threaten internal validity of risk factor research. However, across studies, the magnitude of odds ratios (OR) or relative risks estimated for a given risk factor could vary due to these methodologic issues. In addition, certainly comparing absolute prevalence or incidence rates of LUTS across studies with different meth­ odologies could be challenging. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY AND DISEASE COURSE Diabetes may potentially influence BPH through several mechanisms (Figure 28.1) (4). First, insulin may influence BPH risk directly by increasing the transcription of genes involved in sex hormone metab­ olism, thus influencing androgens and estrogens, or indirectly through altered hormone metabolism as a result of obesity (3). Higher insulin is associated with lower sex hormone binding glob­ ulin, which may increase the amount of androgen/estrogen entering prostatic cells, thereby increasing the risk of BPH. Androgenic actions within the prostate where androgens bind to the androgen receptor and activate DNA synthesis and cellular proliferation may increase the risk of BPH. Finally, accumulating data suggest that inflammation may play an important role in the development of BPH and the development and progression of LUTS. While the mechanisms by which inflammation may lead to prostatic growth have not been elucidated, inflammatory mediators may contribute to prostatic epithelial and stromal cell growth both directly, through growth induction via cytokines that stimulate production of prostatic growth factors, and indirectly, through decreases in prostate cell death via down regulation of prostate cell apop­ tosis (8). Moreover, glucose insensitivity is a component of the metabolic syndrome. The metabolic syndrome is associated with systemic inflammation and oxidative stress; histological BPH is usually asso­ ciated with inflammation, and the extent and severity of the inflammation corre­ spond to the severity of the BPH (9,10,11). Second, while the trophic effect of increased insulin concentrations secondary to insulin
