Chapter 28: Urologic Diseases and Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, women, type diabetes, study, men, urinary, health, incontinence, luts, sexual, years, table, urinary incontinence, dysfunction


inflammation, and the extent and severity of the inflammation corre­ spond to the severity of the BPH (9,10,11). Second, while the trophic effect of increased insulin concentrations secondary to insulin resistance might induce an enlarged prostate, high insulin levels may in turn increase sympathetic nerve activity, which probably contributes to an increase of prostate smooth muscle tone (3). BPH patients with hyperinsulin- emia might have increased sympathetic nervous system activity because insulin resistance is associated with sympa- thetic activation, and higher sympathetic nervous activity would likely contribute to an increase of prostate smooth muscle tone. Additionally, hyperglycemia itself may play a role by increasing cystolic-free calcium in smooth muscle cells, as well as in neural tissue, thus leading to sympathetic nervous system activation. This would coincide with observations of increased LUTS severity in men with elevated postload glucose concentration, as well as with a higher percentage of glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c) compared with men with lower levels of glucose and A1c (12). Changes in insulin and glucose metabolism are associated with hypertension via stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system activity; this sympathetic activity is associated with prostate size and LUTS (13). Third, because of its structural similarity to insulin-like growth factor (IGF), insulin can bind to the IGF receptor in prostate cells, possibly activating the receptor to induce growth and proliferation. Alternatively, as insulin levels increase, IGF-1 binding protein declines, thus increasing the bioavailability of IGF (3). Several studies have observed various components of the IGF axis to be associated with the risk of BPH and LUTS (3,14,15,16). PREVALENCE AND INCIDENCE OF LUTS IN MEN WITH DIABETES Diabetic cystopathy, a complication of diabetes characterized by impaired sensation of bladder fullness, increased bladder capacity, and reduced bladder contractility has been estimated to occur in 25%–45% of both male and female patients with diabetes; however, significant variability in estimates exists due to differences in case definition and measurement. The prevalence of cystop- athy in men increases with the duration of diabetes (25% for 10 years, >50% for 45 years) (17). This dysfunction typically involves autonomic neuropathy leading to functional parasympathetic and possibly sympathetic denervation of the detrusor. While much of the epidemiologic litera­ ture supports the notion that diabetes increases the occurrence of LUTS, estimates of LUTS attributable to BPH in men with diabetes are complicated by several issues. First, LUTS have multiple potential etiologies, including bladder outlet obstruction, primary bladder func­ tional
