Chapter 28: Urologic Diseases and Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, women, type diabetes, study, men, urinary, health, incontinence, luts, sexual, years, table, urinary incontinence, dysfunction


LUTS may have passed. Second, glycemic control at the time of LUTS assessment was comparable in the treatment arms, so only effects that persisted and reflected prior glycemic exposure would have been found. Third, diabetes and glycemic control may have conflicting impacts on the prostate and bladder, such that no effect was observed. If diabetes slows down prostate growth via its impact on testosterone and growth factors, it might reduce the risk of LUTS (via obstructive mechanism) and mask beneficial effects of glycemic control on bladder dysfunction. Fourth, these men were relatively younger on average than the population of males that typically experience an increase in the frequency of LUTS. Finally, management of diabetes was very good among men assigned to conventional treatment, which might have affected the ability to detect an effect of intensive treatment on LUTS (Table 28.3). Studies that have incorporated more objective measures of BPH, as well as LUTS, as the outcomes have reported mixed results. In the Massachusetts Male Aging Study, men with diabetes were 1.5 (95% CI 0.8–2.7) times more likely to be diagnosed with clinical BPH (defined as BPH surgery or LUTS) (27), whereas a decreased risk of BPH and increased risk of LUTS was observed among diabetic men in the California Men’s Health Study (26). Finally, in a prospective cohort study examining the influence of diabetes on the progression of BPH markers, diabetic men reported a larger increase in the AUASI score than did nondiabetic men (28). However, there were no differences in change of prostate volume or prostate-specific antigen (PSA), suggesting, perhaps, that the presence of diabetes may be less directly associated with prostate growth and more closely associated with bladder dysfunction due to the diabetes itself. As there is clinical overlap between the presence of BPH and LUTS, with LUTS being the primary manifestation of BPH, the conditions can be manifestations of different patho­ physiologic pathways mediated through hormonal, environmental, genetic, neuro­ pathic, and (micro) vascular influences, particularly in the diabetic patient (29). While a substantial proportion of the existing body of literature supports an association between diabetes and LUTS, the failure to differentiate LUTS from BPH has contributed to some of the confusing evidence observed in studies including more specific measurements of BPH. SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION IN MEN WITH DIABETES DESCRIPTION, MEASUREMENT, CLASSIFICATION Male sexual dysfunction can involve phys­ iological and psychological problems with erections, ejaculation, libido, and orgasm. The
