Chapter 28: Urologic Diseases and Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, women, type diabetes, study, men, urinary, health, incontinence, luts, sexual, years, table, urinary incontinence, dysfunction


specific measurements of BPH. SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION IN MEN WITH DIABETES DESCRIPTION, MEASUREMENT, CLASSIFICATION Male sexual dysfunction can involve phys­ iological and psychological problems with erections, ejaculation, libido, and orgasm. The majority of available data on sexual dysfunction in patients with diabetes pertains to ED, the focus of this section. The 2009 International Consultation on Sexual Dysfunctions reached the following consensus definition of ED: “ED is defined as a man’s consistent or recurrent inability to attain and/or maintain penile erection sufficient for sexual activity. A three- month minimum duration of symptoms is accepted for establishment of the diag­ nosis” (30). The mainstay of sexual dysfunction measurement in clinical practice, outcomes research, and clinical trials is the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) (31). The IIEF is a standardized, validated, 15-item, self-reported measure of sexual function in men that asks the respondent about their sexual function over the last 4 weeks (31). The IIEF assesses five domains of male sexual function, including desire, erectile function, orgasm, inter­ course satisfaction, and overall satisfaction. Validated cutoff scores for the erectile function domain of the original IIEF (IIEF- EF) have been developed to stratify severity of ED (32). The IIEF is considered the gold standard for patient-based assessment of male sexual function by the International Society for Sexual Medicine (30). An abbre­ viated short form of the IIEF (Sexual Health Inventory for Men or SHIM) consisting of five questions is also available (33). Other measures of erectile health, such as penile ultrasound or penile tumescence testing, are infrequently used in clinical practice or epidemiologic research. DATA SOURCES, LIMITATIONS The majority of literature regarding ED in men with diabetes comes from regional datasets and national studies, with a limited amount of data from clinical trials (Tables 28.6–28.8).Some data sources did not specify type of diabetes (34,35,36,37,38,39), while others included only type 1 (40) or type 2 diabetes (41). Studies are heterogeneous in how they measure ED, with some using validated domains of instruments, such as the IIEF (36), and others asking global single item questions about erectile function (37), making study comparisons difficult. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY AND DISEASE COURSE The cause of diabetic ED is multifactorial (42,43). Disease pathophysiology is driven by vasculopathy, neuropathy, Urologic Diseases and Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes 28–7 TABLE 28.6. National Studies of Urologic Complications of Type 2 Diabetes Among Men: Erectile Dysfunction STUDY, YEAR (REF.) STUDY DESIGN STUDY DESCRIPTION SAMPLE SIZE TYPE 2
