Chapter 28: Urologic Diseases and Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, women, type diabetes, study, men, urinary, health, incontinence, luts, sexual, years, table, urinary incontinence, dysfunction


are increas­ ingly recognized in those with diabetes (50). Bladder storage symptoms in women include increased daytime urinary frequency, nocturia, urgency, and overac­ tive bladder (OAB) syndrome (i.e., urinary urgency, often accompanied by nocturia and frequency, with or without urgency UI leakage, in the absence of urinary tract infection or other obvious pathology) (50). Sensory symptoms occur during bladder filling and include increased, reduced, or absent bladder sensation (50). Voiding and postmicturition smptoms include hesitancy, slow stream, intermittency, straining to void, feeling of incomplete bladder emptying, postmicturition leakage, dysuria, and urinary retention (50). Overall, UI has received by far the greatest amount of attention in the epidemiologic literature on the urologic complications of diabetes among women in the United States and is the focus of this section. DESCRIPTION, MEASUREMENT, CLASSIFICATION UI is defined as involuntary loss of urine (50). Several types of UI, which are thought to have different etiologies, are generally distinguished in epidemi­ ologic research: stress UI, defined as involuntary loss of urine with physical exertion, sneezing, or coughing; urgency UI, defined as involuntary loss of urine associated with a strong, sudden desire to void; and mixed UI, defined as involuntary loss of urine associated with both phys­ ical exertion, sneezing or coughing, and a strong, sudden desire to void (50). Generally, among younger women, stress UI is the most common type of incon­ tinence. However, with increasing age, the ratio of stress to urgency UI tends to decrease, and mixed UI becomes the dominant UI type (51). Clinical diagnosis of UI, and more broadly LUTS, may be based on a variety of factors, including the woman’s complaint, observation of the symptom on examina­ tion, records of the symptom on bladder diaries completed by the woman, perineal pad weighing (for UI), and urodynamic testing (50). In large epidemiologic studies, however, clinical testing to diagnose LUTS is generally not practical. Yet, self-re­ ported LUTS have been found to have moderate to high validity compared with clinical diagnoses (52,53). In addition, self-reported symptoms may have bene­ fits over clinical examination; for example, UI symptoms can vary over time and may simply be absent on any given day despite their occurence on other days. Validation studies indicate that specific UI types are not reported as accurately as UI overall, although specificity generally is high (e.g., 88%–96% specificity), with lower sensi­ tivity for self-reported stress and urgency UI (e.g., 56%–66% sensitivity) compared
