Chapter 28: Urologic Diseases and Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, women, type diabetes, study, men, urinary, health, incontinence, luts, sexual, years, table, urinary incontinence, dysfunction


are not reported as accurately as UI overall, although specificity generally is high (e.g., 88%–96% specificity), with lower sensi­ tivity for self-reported stress and urgency UI (e.g., 56%–66% sensitivity) compared with clinical diagnosis (54). Methodologic issues associated with self-reported LUTS are described in the section above on LUTS in men with diabetes. In addition to the previously described issues (i.e., varying collection method and reference time period), it is important to note that differences in the wording of questions about UI and UI case definitions (e.g., UI episodes occurring at least once per month versus at least once per week) may contribute to variable find­ ings among studies. Again, while these sources of variation may not threaten internal validity of risk factor research within a study, they should be considered when comparing association measures or absolute prevalence or incidence rates of LUTS across studies. DATA SOURCES, LIMITATIONS The understanding of LUTS in women with diabetes is based on national and regional datasets, as well as randomized clinical trials (Tables 28.12–28.14). Nonetheless, the majority of data are from more regional datasets, and limited information is available on broader-based populations, including minorities. Thus, the existing data may or may not apply to specific groups, such as African Americans, Hispanics, or Asian Americans. In addition, given the substantial resources required to conduct prospective studies versus cross-sectional studies, few studies have collected prospective data on LUTS among women with or without diabetes; thus, relatively little is known regarding the incidence and natural history of LUTS. Another limitation of the U.S. literature on diabetes and LUTS in women is the minority of studies that have reported Urologic Diseases and Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes 28–11 on LUTS other than UI. Notable excep­ tions are the BACH survey and the Reproductive Risks of Incontinence Study at Kaiser (RRISK), which have provided information on a broad variety of LUTS in U.S. women. In general, findings regarding the relation of type 2 diabetes to broader LUTS are somewhat weaker than those for UI alone, perhaps because LUTS repre­ sent a broader spectrum of conditions and etiologies. For example, an analysis using BACH survey data examined the relation between type 2 diabetes and LUTS overall, defined as an AUASI score ≥8, as well as eight specific LUTS (UI, painful bladder syndrome, frequency, urgency, nocturia, OAB, OAB with urgency incontinence, and OAB without urgency incontinence) among 3,205 women (55). After adjusting
