Chapter 28: Urologic Diseases and Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, women, type diabetes, study, men, urinary, health, incontinence, luts, sexual, years, table, urinary incontinence, dysfunction


≥8, as well as eight specific LUTS (UI, painful bladder syndrome, frequency, urgency, nocturia, OAB, OAB with urgency incontinence, and OAB without urgency incontinence) among 3,205 women (55). After adjusting for potential confounding factors, the odds of prevalent nocturia were significantly higher among women with than without type 2 diabetes (p=0.002); but, type 2 diabetes was not statistically significantly associated with LUTS overall or any of the other individual LUTS, although marginally significant associations with greater prev­ alence of UI and frequency were observed (55). In addition, 427 women with type 2 diabetes in RRISK reported symptoms of stress and urgency UI, daytime urinary frequency, nocturia, and obstructive voiding (defined as reporting incomplete emptying, intermittent stream, weak stream, or abdominal straining about half the time or more) (56). Prevalence percentages were 20% for daytime urinary frequency, 18% for nocturia, and 21% for obstructive voiding. The unadjusted prev­ alence of any urinary symptom (defined as UI, daytime urinary frequency, nocturia, or obstructive voiding) was slightly higher among women with type 2 diabetes compared with women in RRISK without diabetes (56% vs. 49%, p<0.001) (56). Additional studies assessing the broad spectrum of LUTS in women with diabetes are needed. Another possible limitation in the UI literature, which is the focus of this section, is the lack of attention to bother; several epidemiologic studies have inquired about bother associated with symptoms (57,58,59,60), but most have TABLE 28.12. National Studies of Urologic Complications of Type 2 Diabetes Among Women STUDY, YEAR (REF.) STUDY DESIGN STUDY DESCRIPTION NUMBER OF WOMEN SURVEY MODE OF ADMINISTRATION TYPE 2 DIABETES DIAGNOSIS UI QUESTION(S) Health and Retirement Study (HRS), 2000 (117) Longitudinal A longitudinal study of older Americans. Data have been collected biennially since 1992. Potential partic­ ipants were selected via a national multistage area probability sample of households in the United States. Black and Hispanic women were oversampled. 10,678 Telephone or in-person interview Self-report of physician diagnosis During the last 12 months, have you lost any amount of urine beyond your control? On about how many days in the last month have you lost any urine? National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys (NHANES), 2001–2002 (57) Cross-sectional An ongoing program of nationally representative cross-sectional studies conducted by the National Center for Health Statistics to assess the health of noninstitutionalized civilians. For these years of data, adults age ≥60 years, non-Hispanic blacks, Mexican Americans, and low-income individuals are oversampled. 1,461
