Chapter 28: Urologic Diseases and Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, women, type diabetes, study, men, urinary, health, incontinence, luts, sexual, years, table, urinary incontinence, dysfunction


body composition, social and behavioral factors, physical function, disability, and mortality. Enrollment was limited to adults with no difficulty walking one-quarter mile, climbing 10 steps, or performing activities of daily living. 1,584 Questionnaire Self-report and abnormal glucose testing Many people complain that they leak urine unintentionally. In the past 12 months, have you leaked even a small amount of urine? In the past 12 months, how often have you leaked urine?§ Study of Women’s Health Across the Nation (SWAN), 1995–2002 (76,86,69,119) Longitudinal; Boston, Massachusetts; Chicago, Illinois; Detroit area, Michigan; Los Angeles, California; Newark, New Jersey; Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Oakland, California A study of the natural history of the menopausal transition. Women were identified using random sampling from census lists, commercial electric utility household lists, Kaiser Permanente membership lists, or random digit dialing. Eligible women were age 42–52 years, pre- or early peri-menopausal, and not currently using exogenous hormones. At baseline, 47% of participants were white, 28% black, 9% Hispanic, 8% Chinese American, and 9% Japanese American. 3,302 Self-administered questionnaire (urinary incontinence); tele­ phone or in-person interview (diabetes) Self-report of physician diagnosis or serum glucose >125 mg/dL In the past year, have you ever leaked even a small amount of urine involuntarily?|| Conversions for glucose values are provided in Diabetes in America Appendix 1 Conversions. GHC, Group Health Cooperative of Puget Sound; UI, urinary incontinence. * Data on urinary incontinence type were also collected. † Data on urinary incontinence type, incontinence care seeking, beliefs about incontinence, and bother associated with incontinence were also collected. ‡ Data on usual amount of urine loss and urinary incontinence type were also collected. § Data on urinary incontinence type were also collected. || Data on urinary incontinence type and level of bother associated with urine leakage were also collected. SOURCE: References are listed within the table. Urologic Diseases and Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes 28–13 TABLE 28.14. Randomized Clinical Trials With Data on Urologic Complications of Type 1 or Type 2 Diabetes Among Women STUDY, YEAR (REF.) STUDY POPULATION RANDOMIZATION GROUPS PRIMARY OUTCOME DURATION NUMBER OF WOMEN TYPE 1 OR TYPE 2 DIABETES DIAGNOSIS UI QUESTION(S) Action for Health in Diabetes (Look AHEAD), 2001–2005 (70,91) Overweight and obese women, age 45–74 years, with type 2 diabetes. Four-year intensive weight loss program; diabetes support and education control group Cardiovascular disease morbidity and mortality Approx. 13 years (planned follow-up to 2014) 2,994 Self-reported type 2 diabetes with verification* In
