Chapter 28: Urologic Diseases and Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, women, type diabetes, study, men, urinary, health, incontinence, luts, sexual, years, table, urinary incontinence, dysfunction


leaked some urine with coughing, sneezing, straining, laughing, or lifting? 4. unintentionally leaked some urine before you could get to the bathroom? Conversions for glucose values are provided in Diabetes in America Appendix 1 Conversions. BMI, body mass index; DCCT, Diabetes Control and Complications Trial; EDIC, Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications Study; RCT, randomized controlled trial; UI, urinary incontinence; UroEDIC, ancillary study of urologic complications of the DCCT/EDIC cohort. * Specific methods of verification included medical records, current treatment, personal health care provider, fasting glucose ≥126 mg/dL, symptoms of hyperglycemia with casual plasma glucose ≥200 mg/dL, or 2-hour plasma glucose ≥200 mg/dL after a 75g oral glucose load on at least two occasions. † Women with weekly incontinence in the last year were also asked to recall the type and number of incontinence episodes in the past 7 days. ‡ Women with weekly incontinence in the last year were also asked questions about urinary incontinence type. § Type of incontinence during the past 7 days was assessed among women with weekly incontinence. Other assessments included amount of urine lost per incontinence episode, level of bother of incontinence, and interference of incontinence with activities. SOURCE: References are listed within the table. 28–14 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition not. Although the 2010 International Urogynecological Association/ International Continence Society defi­ nition of the symptom of UI does not require subjective assessment that the incontinence is a bother or problem (50), lack of information on bothersome UI could be considered a limitation, as it is a significant predictor of care seeking and quality-of-life impact (61,62). However, it is important to note that, in addition to severity of UI symptoms, perception of bother may be influenced by factors such as level of education, overall health status, presence of comorbid conditions, and belief that UI is a natural part of aging (61,62). Thus, the value of assessing bother related to LUTS likely depends on the specific study question of interest. For example, measurement of bother may be less useful for epidemiologic studies exploring etiologic hypotheses but may be advantageous when approaching hypoth­ eses related to quality-of-life outcomes or care seeking (63). PATHOPHYSIOLOGY AND DISEASE COURSE The precise mechanisms underlying urologic complications of diabetes are not yet understood. However, several mechanisms that might explain a link between diabetes and LUTS have been hypothesized, mainly based on data from animal studies. These mechanisms include diabetic neuropathy and
