Chapter 28: Urologic Diseases and Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, women, type diabetes, study, men, urinary, health, incontinence, luts, sexual, years, table, urinary incontinence, dysfunction


yet understood. However, several mechanisms that might explain a link between diabetes and LUTS have been hypothesized, mainly based on data from animal studies. These mechanisms include diabetic neuropathy and microvas­ cular damage, leading to detrusor muscle and urothelium dysfunction (29,64). For example, over the long term, microvas­ cular and neuronal damage resulting from diabetes may compromise innervation of the lower urinary tract and detrusor muscle, leading to the hallmark features of diabetic cystopathy: decreased bladder sensation, decreased detrusor muscle function, increased bladder volume, and overdistention (65). Indeed, evidence of impaired detrusor muscle function was observed among 427 women age 40–80 years with type 2 diabetes in the RRISK (56). Specifically, among these women, postvoid residual volume, an indicator of bladder emptying adequacy, ranged from 0 to 824 mL, with a mean of 42.0 mL (standard deviation 77.5 mL); 26% of the women had a postvoid residual volume of ≥50 mL, a level considered above normal (56,66). In contrast, among 96 mainly healthy women without significant LUTS, age ≥45 years, postvoid residual volumes were lower, ranging from 0 to 145 mL, with a mean of 24 mL (standard deviation 28 mL); 15% had a postvoid residual volume ≥50 mL (67). Although multiple mechanisms can explain increased post­ void residual volume (e.g., bladder outlet obstruction), these data suggest that impaired detrusor muscle contractility related to diabetic cystopathy is one potential factor. In addition, several hypotheses have been proposed to explain increased involuntary detrusor muscle contractions and OAB in women with diabetes. For example, experimental studies of rat bladder strips suggest diabetes increases responsive­ ness of bladder tissue to electrical field stimulation (64), possibly by promoting changes in membrane lipid composition, increasing neurotransmitter release, increasing calcium-channel activity, or enhancing calcium sensitivity (64). OAB may also occur as a consequence of multiple cerebral infarctions due to diabetic cerebral vasculopathy (68). Finally, the urothelium, a key sensory organ necessary for proper bladder function, has been shown in animal studies to increase in thickness with longer diabetes duration (29). Urothelial release of prostaglandins appears to increase in proportion to the increase in urothelium thickness, resulting in increased sensitivity of the bladder smooth muscle, a change which theoreti­ cally could promote detrusor overactivity and OAB symptoms (64,65). Data indicating higher prevalence of UI even in women at high risk for diabetes (i.e., impaired fasting glucose), and thus without apparent complications of diabetes, suggest that other unknown
