Chapter 28: Urologic Diseases and Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, women, type diabetes, study, men, urinary, health, incontinence, luts, sexual, years, table, urinary incontinence, dysfunction


30–300 mg/g. Macroalbuminuria was defined as albumin-to-creatinine ratio >300 mg/g. SOURCE: References are listed within the table. Poor glycemic control also has not been found to be associated with the odds of prevalent UI (Table 28.22). In the Diabetes and Aging Study, higher A1c was not asso­ ciated with prevalence of occasional UI; however, among women with UI, higher A1c was related to more limitations in daily activities due to UI (adjusted OR 1.67, 95% CI 1.09–2.57 comparing A1c ≥9% vs. <6% [≥75 vs. <42 mmol/mol]) (63). The authors suggested that this finding may simply reflect a correlation between two indica­ tors of diabetes severity (i.e., glycemic control and activity limitations), or it may indicate an association of poor glycemic control and glycosuria with exacerbation of preexisting UI (63). Longitudinal studies to evaluate whether changes in glycemic control predict changes in UI symptoms have not been conducted. Data on diabetes treatment suggest a gradation of increasing UI frequency from no pharmaceutical treatment to insulin treatment (Table 28.22) (81,87); while treatment itself may be the causal factor or simply an indicator of diabetes severity and duration, these data suggest that health care providers might need to be more vigilant in assessing UI symptoms in patients receiving insulin treatment, since they appear to be a particularly high-risk group. Several studies (57,82,83), but not all (87), have found strong associations between neuropathy or microvascular complica­ tions and the odds of UI. Among women with type 2 diabetes in the NHANES, the odds of prevalent weekly UI were over twofold higher in those with neuropathic pain (Table 28.22) (57). Existing data on diabetic retinopathy and albuminuria are too sparse to yield conclusions regarding their associations with UI. UI IN WOMEN WITH TYPE 1 DIABETES Urologic complications of type 1 diabetes are understudied. All information about UI in type 1 diabetes among women in the Urologic Diseases and Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes 28–19 TABLE 28.23. Prevalence of Urinary Incontinence in the Past 12 Months in Women With Type 1 Diabetes, UroEDIC, 2004 An analysis using data from the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) demonstrated the effectiveness of a low-fat diet and moderate-intensity physical activity inter­ vention for decreasing type 2 diabetes incidence, as well as UI prevalence among overweight and obese women at risk of developing type 2 diabetes (89). Specifically, UI was measured at the end-of-trial visit using a self-adminis­ INCONTINENCE PERCENT (N=550) Frequency None
