Chapter 28: Urologic Diseases and Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, women, type diabetes, study, men, urinary, health, incontinence, luts, sexual, years, table, urinary incontinence, dysfunction


UI treatment and prevention in women with type 1 or type 2 diabetes is scant. Further research is needed on the efficacy and safety of behavioral, pharmacological, and surgical treatments for UI in women with diabetes (92). In addition, studies are needed to evaluate the effects of standard diabetes treatment, standard UI treatment, and their combination on UI prevalence and incidence in women with diabetes or prediabetes (92). ASYMPTOMATIC BACTERIURIA AND SYMPTOMATIC URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS IN WOMEN WITH DIABETES Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are defined by pathogenic invasion of the urinary tract leading to inflammatory response of the urothelium (93). Asymptomatic bacteriuria (ASB) is the presence of bacteria in the urine that does not cause any symptoms (93). Although Escherichia coli is the most frequent bacterial cause of UTI in the general population of adult women (93), many patients with diabetes are infected with non-Escherichia coli species (94,95). In addition, among women with UTIs, those with type 1 or type 2 diabetes appear to have greater risk of infections progressing to complications or severe outcomes, such as abscess formation, renal papillary necrosis, bacteremia, and pyelonephritis, than those without diabetes (29). Although results have not been consistent, data from several epidemiologic studies suggest that ASB and symptomatic UTIs are more common in women with diabetes than in those without diabetes (96,97,98,99,100). However, many of these studies are not prospective cohorts and did not adjust for potential confounding factors, such as frequency of sexual intercourse. Risk factors for UTI in women with diabetes are not well defined and may vary by type of diabetes. Women with both type 2 diabetes and ASB have an increased risk of developing symptomatic UTI compared with women with type 2 diabetes, but without ASB (94). Yet, a randomized clinical trial observed no asso­ ciation of screening and treatment of ASB episodes over 3 years with occurrence of symptomatic UTI in Canadian women with type 1 or type 2 diabetes and ASB (101). Also, similar to women without diabetes, sexual activity has been identified as the most important risk factor for UTI among women with type 1 diabetes (94,100,102). Thus, measures to prevent recurrent UTIs that have had success in women without diabetes (e.g., continuous or postcoital prophylaxis with low-dose antimicrobial agents and intermittent self-treatment with antimicrobials (103) might be consid­ ered for women with type 1 diabetes. Trials to assess the effectiveness of these strategies among
