Chapter 28: Urologic Diseases and Sexual Dysfunction in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, women, type diabetes, study, men, urinary, health, incontinence, luts, sexual, years, table, urinary incontinence, dysfunction


UroEDIC found a 35% prevalence of sexual dysfunc­ tion, defined based on a cutoff score of 22.75 on an abbreviated version of the Female Sexual Function Index (110). Common complaints among women meeting the criteria for sexual dysfunction were decreased desire (57%), problems with orgasm (51%), inadequate lubrication (47%), problems with sexual arousal (38%), and pain during intercourse (21%) (110); the study did not include a comparison group of women without type 1 diabetes. Several mechanisms, including psycho­ logical factors, diabetes complications, and medication use, may explain a higher prevalence of sexual dysfunction in women with diabetes than those without diabetes. Depression, a common condition in adults with diabetes (111), was found to be significantly associated with decreased arousal (OR 2.47, 95% CI 1.31–4.66) and inadequate lubrication (OR 2.41, 95% CI 1.33–4.37) in women in UroEDIC with type 1 diabetes (110). Moreover, antidepressant use may lead to new onset or worsening of sexual dysfunction (112). Complications of diabetes, such as neurovascular dysfunc­ tion leading to suboptimal pelvic blood flow and damage to large sensory fibers, may also contribute to higher frequency of decreased sexual arousal in women with diabetes. In addition, vaginal infec­ tions and decreased vaginal lubrication, which are more common in women with than without diabetes, may contribute to sexual pain. Sexual dysfunction may also occur as an adverse effect of medications used for conditions commonly comorbid with diabetes, such as hypertension, and high cholesterol (113). Although nonpharmacologic and pharmacologic treatment options for sexual dysfunction are available (113), their effectiveness or appropriateness specifically among women with diabetes is largely unknown. Clearly, much remains to be learned regarding prevalence, prevention, and treatment of sexual dysfunction among women with diabetes. CONCLUSION Although urologic complications are common and major health problems in men and women with diabetes, data to define expected prevalence, incidence, and risk factors, as well as interventions to reduce the risk of developing these complications, are limited. It is well recognized that intensive glycemic control delays the onset and progression of microvascular complications in both type 1 and type 2 diabetes. If microvascular complications also damage the vascular and neurologic innervation of the urethral sphincter, bladder, and corpora cavernosa, then intensive glycemic control may prevent or improve the severity of urologic complications. In summary, future research is needed to identify the magnitude of onset and progression of urologic complications associated with diabetes, elucidate mechanisms by which diabetes exerts
