Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, research, ethical, benefits, subjects, countries, care, patients, needs, allocation, people, resource, cea, issues, life


standard gambles,time tradeoffs,visual analog scales,or unobjectionable when it is used only for evaluating alternative person tradeoffs. In all these methods, a common issue is health interventions that would serve the same patients. whose preferences to use for valuing health states. The main However, considerations of equity may conflict with cost- debate has been whether to use a randomly selected group of effectiveness and so may provide moral reasons for an alloca- citizens or to use people who have the particular disability or tion that is not cost-effective. The discussion in this chapter limitation in function being evaluated. accepts that CEA identifies one important ethical criterion in This issue matters because a number ofstudies have shown evaluating health care interventions—producing the most ben- that persons without disabilities generally evaluate the quality efits possible for individuals served by those interventions— oflife with a particular disability as significantly worse than do and then focuses on the other ethical criterion of ensuring persons who have that same disability (Menzel and others equitable distribution ofthose benefits. 2002). If the preferences of persons without disabilities are This chapter considers two types ofequity issues:first,those used,their lower evaluation ofquality oflife with various dis- that arise in the general construction of a CEA—that is, in abilities will mean that fewer QALYs will be produced by life- determining the form ofa CEA;second,those that arise in the saving interventions for persons with disabilities than if the use ofthe results ofa CEA for resource allocation in the health preferences of persons with disabilities had been used. sector.It is worth noting that,when applied appropriately and However,ifwe use the preferences ofpersons with disabilities, broadly to all social conditions and programs that significantly then both prevention and rehabilitation will receive less value affect the so-called social determinants of health—which used. largely affect the incidence ofdisease,disability,and premature This difference in evaluations in part results from igno- treat disease. However, we shall focus largely on CEA in the without disabilities about what it is like to live with various evaluation ofhealth care and public health programs. disabilities. The difference results as well from the process of adaptation to disability in which disabled persons adjust by learning new skills,cope by adjusting their expectations to their Issues in the Construction of a Cost-Effectiveness Analysis new circumstances, and accommodate by substituting new Cost-effectivenessanalysesrequiredecisionsaboutwhichcosts aims and activities for ones made difficult or impossible by toinclude,whichifanyfinancialgainsshouldbecountedasoff- their disabilities (Solomon and Murray 2002).They
