Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, research, ethical, benefits, subjects, countries, care, patients, needs, allocation, people, resource, cea, issues, life


Construction of a Cost-Effectiveness Analysis new circumstances, and accommodate by substituting new Cost-effectivenessanalysesrequiredecisionsaboutwhichcosts aims and activities for ones made difficult or impossible by toinclude,whichifanyfinancialgainsshouldbecountedasoff- their disabilities (Solomon and Murray 2002).They thus adopt theinterventiononhealth,andwhetherallhealthgainsshould of-life evaluations.Because the adoption of this new perspec- bevaluedalike.Noneof thosedecisions,inourview,isexclu- tive resulted from a disability,it will represent a set ofvalues for sively a technical issue, and CEA results reflect the analysts’ making choices that reflects a restricted set of abilities. ethicaljudgmentsonthoseissues. Nevertheless, neither the nondisabled perspective nor the adapteddisabledperspectiveismistaken;theyareonlydifferent Evaluation of Benefits. Evaluating health benefits within a (Brock1995).Thesedifferencescreatecontroversyinthelitera- CEA involves several issues. This chapter assumes that some ture over which perspective is correct for cost-effectiveness version of a quality-adjusted life year (QALY) is used to com- evaluations in health care. serving life.Disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) are a variant do) or lives saved.Certainly individuals offered two interven- ofQALYs in that they measure the losses from disability or pre- tionsthatwouldpreservetheirlivesfordifferentlengthsoftime mature death; a CEA will determine which interventions will wouldprefer,allotherthingsbeingequal,thealternativewith maximize QALYs or minimize DALYs. Calculating QALYs the longer period of survival.Moreover,when the differences requires a metric evaluating the effect ofdifferent states oflim- areextreme—forexample,extendinggroupA’slivesbyaweek Health Utilities Index (Horsman and others 2003).The Disease virtuallyeveryonewouldjudgethisdifferencetosupportgiving Control Priorities Project uses the health state valuations or prioritytogroupB.Thisfactsuggeststhateventheproponent disability weights of the World Health Organization (WHO). ofcountinglivessavedshouldrequirethatthelivessavedfora scale in which “0” represents death and “1” represents full, period of time; what is significant will depend in part on the 260 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Dan W. Brock and Daniel Wikler durationoflivessavedbythealternativewithwhichitisbeing the moral urgency, grounded in fairness, of preventing the compared.Someempiricalstudiesindicatethatordinarypeo- death.The younger a person is,the greater is the moral value of pletendnottogivemuchweighttodifferencesintheduration providing a QALY to him or her.This view leaves open to what of health benefits to different groups of persons when priori- extent the moral value ofQALYs should decline with the age of tizingbetweenthem,aslongasthelesserdurationbenefitsare the recipient.This age weighting to favor the young has been viewedassignificant;thisattitudesuggeststhattheyfavorlives attacked by some as unjust age discrimination,but because an saved over life years saved (Nord and others 1996). The life explicit moral justification in terms offairness is offered for it, yearssavedversuslivessavedcontroversyremainsunsettled. critics must show why that justification is unsound. Should Life Years Be Age Weighted? The standard assumption What Costs Should Count in Health Cost-Effectiveness in most CEAs using QALYs is that one QALY has the same Analyses? No controversy surrounds the inclusion in a CEA of QALYs achieved by recipients at
