Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, research, ethical, benefits, subjects, countries, care, patients, needs, allocation, people, resource, cea, issues, life


today than in guide to resource allocation in all cases. CEA, as customarily 10years because it can be invested at the market rate ofinter- formulated,measures the sum ofcosts and benefits and largely est if received today. For the same reason, costs that can be ignores the pattern of their distribution across the affected deferred require fewer present dollars to meet them. population. In some cases, the resulting allocation will strike The controversial issue is whether health benefits should be most observers as unfair. Health resource allocators need to benefit has progressively less social value the farther into the effectiveness. future it occurs.This issue is complex and has engendered an extensive literature that cannot be reviewed here,but we can at Priority to the Worst Off. Justice requires a special concern for least try to focus the issue.It is appropriate to discount for the the worst off,as is reflected in aphorisms such as “you can tell uncertainty about whether potential beneficiaries will survive the justice of a society by how it treats its least well-off mem- increased uncertainty about whether a benefit will occur theory ofjustice,and by the special concern for the poor with- because it is more distant. However, these uncertainties are in many religious traditions (Brock 2002; Rawls 1971). This reflected in the calculation of expected future benefits and do concern is often understood to reflect a concern for equality— not require that future benefits be discounted.Likewise,ifindi- in particular,equality in outcomes or welfare between people. greater,but this fact,too,is reflected in the estimation of the ofethical bases underpin a concern for equality in general and 262 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Dan W. Brock and Daniel Wikler here. It is important, however, to understand that concern Finally, how much priority should the worst off receive? for the worst off is different from a concern for equality, Giving absolute priority to the worst offis implausible because because the two can be and often are confused. Raising the it faces the bottomless pit problem—using very great amounts position ofthe worst offwill typically reduce inequality,but it of resources to produce very limited or marginal gains in the need not always do so. Sometimes improving the position of health-related quality of life of the severely ill or disabled. the worst off may unavoidably improve the position of those However,there is no apparent principled basis for determining who are better off even more
