Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, research, ethical, benefits, subjects, countries, care, patients, needs, allocation, people, resource, cea, issues, life


of the severely ill or disabled. the worst off may unavoidably improve the position of those However,there is no apparent principled basis for determining who are better off even more and thereby increase inequality. how much priority the worst offshould receive. Moreover,the concern for equality in outcomes is subject to the “leveling down” objection, in which equality is achieved by Aggregation and Cost Differences. The aggregation problem making the better-offmembers worse off,even when doing so occurs when determining at what point small benefits to a large in no way benefits those who are worst off.In the face of that number ofpersons should take priority over very large benefits objection,many have rejected equality in outcomes in favor of to a few,because the former result in greater aggregate or total a prioritarian view, according to which benefiting people has benefits (Daniels 1993; Kamm 1993). The issue can be illus- greater moral value the worse offthose people are . trated by the initial effort to prioritize different treatment- A number ofpossible lines ofreasoning support prioritari- condition pairs in the Medicaid program in the U.S. state of anism.For example,the worse offthat people are,the greater is Oregon by what was essentially a cost-effectiveness standard. the relative improvement that a given size of benefit will pro- As was widely reported, capping teeth for exposed pulp was vide them, so the more the benefit may matter to them. ranked just above performing appendectomies for acute need that an individual suffers,the greater is the moral claim to condition. A variety of methodological problems affected have it alleviated or met. Oregon’s analysis,but this kind ofresult is to be expected from issue is who the worst offare.In the context ofresource alloca- it was possible to provide a tooth capping for more than ally worst off,those with the worst overall well-being (such as benefits of the many tooth cappings were estimated to exceed General theories of justice usually focus on people’s overall ofthis sort,the commission fundamentally changed its priori- well-being,often allowing a lower level in one domain ofwell- tization methodology to largely ignore cost differences,except being to be compensated for by a higher level in another in the case of roughly equally beneficial interventions. The domain.However,there are both moral and pragmatic reasons commission essentially adopted what might be called a relative for what has been called a separate spheres view,according to effectiveness or benefit standard . which the worst off for
