Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, research, ethical, benefits, subjects, countries, care, patients, needs, allocation, people, resource, cea, issues, life


reasons commission essentially adopted what might be called a relative for what has been called a separate spheres view,according to effectiveness or benefit standard . which the worst off for the purpose of health resource alloca- What Oregon’s experience shows is that most people’s sense tion should be considered to be those with worse health. ofpriorities is determined by a one-to-one comparison ofthe Morally,for example,Scanlon has argued that “for differences benefits of different interventions, in which case appendec- in level to affect the relative strength ofpeople’s claims to help, tomies are clearly a higher priority than tooth capping. That these differences have to be in an aspect of welfare that the ignores the great differences in costs between different health help in question will contribute to” (Scanlon 1997, 227). interventions that a CEA will reflect.Is it then simply a mistake and controversial,as well as too subject to mistake and abuse, At least two moral considerations suggest not.First,empirical to have to inquire into all aspects of people’s overall levels of studies have shown that many people ignore the cost differ- well-being. ences because they believe that patients should not be at a Even ifhealth allocation to the worst offshould be based on disadvantage in priority for treatment simply because their expected future health? The latter would give special weight to ity for treatment should be determined by the urgency oftheir meeting the health needs ofthose with long-term chronic dis- individual claims to treatment . and future health.Should special priority also be given to those reject all aggregation ofdifferent sizes and costs ofhealth ben- becoming worse? consensus either on when aggregation should be permitted or Ethical Issues in Resource Allocation, Research, and New Product Development | 263 for what reasons.However,at a minimum,we suggest that indi- groups are treated. In the extreme case, some live and others viduals should not be denied very great health benefits—in the die. The better outcome is produced by funding program A extreme case, life-saving interventions—merely to provide rather than program B,but that additional good is insufficient small health benefits to a large number ofother persons. to justify morally the huge difference in the way the two groups of patients are treated.The conflict between fair chances and Fair Chances and Best Outcomes. The thesis that resources best outcomes can arise in a variety ofcontexts . should be targeted to interventions in which they will do the Preferring the
