Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, research, ethical, benefits, subjects, countries, care, patients, needs, allocation, people, resource, cea, issues, life


between the two programs is a reason to hope that their health needs will be met.This con- relatively small compared with the potential gain or loss to sideration may be especially important in developing countries individual patients. Suppose that health program A will pro- where resource scarcity is more severe and adhering strictly to duce 5,000 QALYs while program B will produce 4,500 QALYs cost-effectiveness criteria could result in large numbers of and that the effect on the health or life ofeach patient served is patients with serious—or even life-threatening—health needs large—in the extreme,life saving.Patients who would be served having no hope that their needs will be met. by program B could complain that it is not fair that all the resources go to program A and none to B when they have Discrimination against Persons with Disabilities. The use of nearly as pressing health needs and would be benefited by CEA in resource allocation to maximize the QALYs produced treatment nearly as much as the patients served by program A. by available resources will often discriminate against persons Ifall cannot be treated,they might go on to argue,they deserve with disabilities.Many persons with disabilities such as cystic a fair chance to have their needs met rather than having no fibrosis, HIV/AIDS, and chronic pulmonary or heart disease chance for treatment only because treating them would pro- have reduced life expectancies or health-related quality of life duce slightly less benefit than treating the patients served by as a result of their disabilities. Life-extending health care for program A.The small difference in benefits produced for the those people will produce fewer QALYs than for people with- two groups—for example,a slightly greater life expectancy or out them,all else being equal. too small to justify the tremendous difference in how the two of life rather than extending life, similar discrimination can 264 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Dan W. Brock and Daniel Wikler arise. The presence of disabilities can act as comorbidities, the practice or norms of medicine, which have the goal of making treatment less effective or more expensive (or both) meeting patients’medical needs. than it would otherwise be, thereby worsening its cost- Therearestrongmoralreasonsforconsiderablecautionin effectiveness ratio relative to comparable treatment for persons letting health resource allocation depend on individuals’ without disabilities.These effects oftreatment can result from responsibility for their health needs . For that a disability that exists before treatment
