Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, research, ethical, benefits, subjects, countries, care, patients, needs, allocation, people, resource, cea, issues, life


initial guide in health resource allocation. feature ofthe practice ofmedicine that looks to patients’needs The various equity considerations discussed briefly above can for care rather than to whether they deserve care. serve as justification for departing from or violating any cutoffs related to cost per QALY. ETHICS IN RESEARCH AND NEW Responsibility for Health Needs. Some have suggested that PRODUCTDEVELOPMENT health needs for which individuals are morally responsible should have lower priority than health needs for which indi- All new drugs and other medical products must be tested on viduals are not responsible (Moss and Siegler 1991).Ifindivid- human subjects before they are sold. Although participation uals are responsible for their health needs and could have taken in health research is often a valuable opportunity for partici- steps to avoid them, they have weaker claims on social pants,what happens to them is determined not only by their resources to meet those needs than do individuals whose health clinicians’ therapeutic intent (if any) but also by the need to needs are no fault of their own and could not have been pre- ensure that the research yields useful information. Managing vented. Smoking and substance abuse are two of the most the potential conflict between those motivations is often an prominent examples ofbehaviors often cited.However,differ- ethically challenging task, and the issues become particularly entiating patients by whether they deserve care on the basis of contentious when research is conducted in developing whether they are responsible for their health needs does not fit countries. Ethical Issues in Resource Allocation, Research, and New Product Development | 265 Developing Consensus on Ethics and Human scientists must explore the range of reasonable therapeutic SubjectsResearch alternatives with the patient. Potential subjects must under- stand that their participation is completely voluntary and that The central ethical question in health research that involves they may withdraw at any time and for any reason. Because human subjects is what may be asked of some individuals so they cannot voluntarily shoulder risks,further protection must that others may benefit.The question arises in any research in be provided to those who cannot give consent. Such people which human subjects are asked to participate, but is most include, among others, mentally incompetent or immature pressing ifthe care that is offered to subjects provides no ther- participants and those involved in research (chiefly in social apeutic benefit or if that care is compromised by the require-
