Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, research, ethical, benefits, subjects, countries, care, patients, needs, allocation, people, resource, cea, issues, life


ifthe care that is offered to subjects provides no ther- participants and those involved in research (chiefly in social apeutic benefit or if that care is compromised by the require- psychology) that requires initial deception.Consent,however, ments of the study design. Informed consent, while in most is not sufficient to ensure fairness;there should be additional cases a requirement for ethical justification ofresearch involv- safeguards against unfair distribution ofthe burdens and ben- ing risk,does not relieve the scientist ofresponsibility.The eth- efits ofresearch.Finally,all research that involves potential risks ical question is what potential subjects may be recruited for, should be reviewed by an IRB acting on the basis of interna- even ifthey do consent. tionally recognized ethical principles. A rough consensus exists worldwide on the elements of The global acceptance of these principles and the rapid research ethics and,increasingly,on the central role ofthe eth- development of capacity for ethical review attest to the per- ical review committee, or institutional review board (IRB). ceived validity of this system of rules and procedures of ethi- This consensus can be traced back to the post–World War II calreview.However,therehasbeenrelativelylittleresearchon internationaldeterminationtoensurethatthekindofbarbaric howIRBsactuallyperform.ManyIRBsinsmallerinstitutions research practiced by Nazi scientists would not again stain the good name of medical science.1 Three advisory documents lack the necessary expertise to review novel or complex pro- posals, and their institutional setting creates a potential con- have been particularly influential. The Nuremberg Tribunal flictof interest.Governmentinvestigationsof theadequacyof that conducted the postwar Doctors’Trial promulgated a code IRBs for the tasks that are now assigned to them have often of conduct for medical research that stressed the requirement been critical (for example, Office of the Inspector General ofinformed consent.The World Medical Association issued the 1998, 2000). IRBs are often overworked and understaffed, first version of its Declaration of Helsinki in 1964 and has resulting in ever-lengthening delays between initial submis- revised it several times. A further set of guidelines, issued in sionofprotocolsandfinalapproval.Regardlessofthevalueof 1993 and revised a decade later,was published by the Geneva- IRBs,predictingwhatwillpassthroughthemandwhatmight based Council for International Organizations of Medical provoke delay or rejection has become a significant concern Sciences.Although they lack the force oflaw,these documents for medical researchers. The system thus has costs as well as are widely acknowledged as international standards. Indeed, benefits,afactthatlendsadditionalgravitytothecontroversies the World Medical Association’s periodic revisions of the thatitmustresolve. Declaration of Helsinki have become focal points for interna- tional debates over outstanding issues in research ethics. The most elaborate codification ofresearch ethics is
