Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, research, ethical, benefits, subjects, countries, care, patients, needs, allocation, people, resource, cea, issues, life


sharply disputed issues have arisen in inter- may benefit.Permitting investigators to approach potential national collaborative research involving scientists and spon- subjects in these cases requires an ethical judgment. In sors from wealthy countries conducting experiments in devel- approving such a proposal, the function of the ethical oping countries. Some of the problems are procedural. For review committee is not, strictly speaking, only to protect example, U.S. agencies have insisted on the same kind of the subjects (the goal of protection would often be served recordkeeping for IRBs in developing countries that is required ofIRBs in U.S.research institutions.IRBs in developing coun- permit them to be enlisted in the effort to improve health tries may accept the same principles ofaccountability,but they care for others.Thus,a second function ofethical review is do not have the elaborate staffs and budgets that leading IRBs to ensure that those who agree to participate do so volun- rely on. tarily and freely and that they understand what is being The most difficult disputes involving the ethics of research asked ofthem. in developing countries are, however, substantive rather than • Equality and fairness.Although research ethics committees procedural. have little authority to address persistent social injustices,a third concern ofresearch ethics is that the benefits and bur- Standard ofCare. The international guidelines used in navi- dens of health research be distributed fairly.This function gating the ethical dilemmas ofresearch in developing countries receives relatively little attention in the literature ofresearch were created for the very different purpose of ensuring that ethics, despite its prominence in such well-known docu- what happened at Dachau and Auschwitz would not recur.It is ments as the Belmont Report of the National Commission not clear whether those rules usefully resolve the kinds of for the Protection of Human Subjects (1979).Many of the dilemmas that arise in,say,Uganda or Peru. most notorious abuses of research subjects, including the The Declaration of Helsinki, following the Nuremberg Nazi investigations in the concentration camps,the Japanese Tribunal,requires informed consent of all competent research biowarfare experiments on Chinese and other civilians, subjects,and in section 29 states that “the benefits,risks,bur- and the Tuskegee research on African Americans suffer- dens, and effectiveness of a new method should be tested ing from syphilis, were committed on subjects chosen against those of the best current prophylactic,diagnostic,and exclusively from disadvantaged groups. therapeutic methods.” To its supporters, any departure from the letter of the Those three goals of ethical review—protecting subjects;
