Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, research, ethical, benefits, subjects, countries, care, patients, needs, allocation, people, resource, cea, issues, life


on the potential participant.As with alleged cultural differences inanexperimentreceivethebestavailablecare,butratherthatnewtreat- mentsbetestedagainstthebestavailablecare.Butthisdefensefacesfurther regarding individual informed consent, IRBs operate with objections.Insomecases,testingagainstthebestavailablecare(ratherthan scant evidence on this point.It is difficult from a long distance againstthecarecurrentlyprovidedtothepopulationoragainstplacebo) to decide what amount ofcompensation undermines freedom willfailtoprovidetheevidenceneededtoconvincetheministryofhealth of choice.It is also unclear whether the moral categories used orpotentialdonorsthatfundsshouldbeprovided.Thereisapotentialcon- tradictioninanyviewthatclaimsboththatallpatientsinexperiments in these disputes have been adequately thought through.The deservethebestcareandthatitisethicallyacceptabletotestanewtreat- fact that a poor person finds an attractive offer irresistible will mentthatisnotexpectedtobequiteasgoodasthebestcurrentlyavailable. Ethical Issues in Resource Allocation, Research, and New Product Development | 269 REFERENCES Meltzer, D. 1997. “Accounting for Future Costs in Medical Cost- Effectiveness Analysis.”Journal ofHealth Economics16 (1):33–64. Advisory Committee on Human Radiation Experiments. 1995. Final Menzel,P.,P.Dolan,J.Richardson,and J.A.Olsen.2002.“The Role of Birdsall,N.,andR.Hecht.1995.“SwimmingagainsttheTide:Strategiesfor Preliminary Normative Analysis.”Social Science and Medicine55 (12): Improving Equity in Health.” Human Capital Development and 2149–58. OperationsPolicyWorkingPaper55,WorldBank,Washington,DC. Moss,A.H.,and M.Siegler.1991.“Should Alcoholics Compete Equally for Birstein,V.2001. The Perversion of Knowledge: The True Story of Soviet Liver Transplantation?”Journal of the American Medical Association Science.Boulder,CO:Westview. 265 (10):1295–98. Brandt,A.2000.“Racism and Research:The Case ofthe Tuskegee Syphilis Murray,C.J.L.1994.“Quantifying the Burden ofDisease:The Technical Experiment.” In Tuskegee’s Truths: Rethinking the Tuskegee Syphilis Basis for Disability-Adjusted Life Years.” In Global Comparative Press. Intervention Packages,ed.C.J.L.Murray and A.D.Lopez.Geneva: World Health Organization. Brock, D. 1988. “Ethical Issues in Recipient Selection for Organ Transplantation.”In Organ Substitution Technology: Ethical,Legal,and National Bioethics Advisory Commission. 2001. “When Research Is Public Policy Issues, ed. D. Mathieu. Boulder, CO, and London: Concluded—Access to the Benefits of Research by Participants, Westview. Communities, and Countries.” In Ethical and Policy Issues in International Research: Clinical Trials in Developing Countries. ———. 1995.“Justice and the ADA: Does Prioritizing and Rationing Washington,DC:U.S.Government Printing Office. Health Care Discriminate against the Disabled?”Social Philosophy and Policy12 (2):159–84. National Commission for the Protection of Human Subjects of Biomedical and Behavioral Research. Office of the Secretary, U.S. ———. 2002. “Priority to the Worst Off in Health Care Resource Prioritization.”In Medicine and Social Justice,ed.M.Battin,R.Rhodes, Report:Ethical Principles and Guidelines for the Protection ofHuman and A.Silvers.New York:Oxford University Press. ———.2003a.“Ethical Issues in the Use ofCost Effectiveness Analysis for Welfare,Washington,DC. the Prioritization of Health Care Resources.” In Making Choices in Edejer,R.Baltussen,T.Adam,R.Hutubessy,A.Acharya,D.B.Evans, Age and Duration of Effect in Social Evaluation of Health Care.” ———.2003b.“Separate Spheres and Indirect Benefits.”Cost-Effectiveness Health Care Analysis4 (2):103–11. and Resource Allocation1 (1):4. Nord,E.,J.Richardson,A.Street,H.Kuhse,and P.Singer.1995.“Who Broome,J.1991.“Fairness.”Proceedings ofthe Aristotelian Society91 (1): Cares about Cost? Does Economic Analysis Impose or Reflect Social 87–102. Values?”Health Policy34 (2):79–94. CMH (Commission on Macroeconomics and Health). 2001. Macroeconomics and Health: Investing in Health for Economic Services.
