Practice Guidelines
KEYWORDS: disease, celiac, celiac disease, patients, testing, diet, diagnosis, gluten, symptoms, gluten-free, persons, gluten-free diet, iga, considered, histologic


Practice Guidelines ACG Releases Guideline on Diagnosis and Management of Celiac Disease ing should be considered for asymptomatic Guideline source: American College of Gastroenterology immediate family members of persons with Evidence rating system used? Yes a confirmed diagnosis. Families in which more than one person has been diagnosed Literature search described? No with celiac disease are considered high risk, Guideline developed by participants without relevant financial and screening recommendations should ties to industry? No extend to all other family members, includ- Published source: American Journal of Gastroenterology, May 2013 ing second-degree relatives. Celiac disease should be considered as a Available at: uploads/2013/05/ACG_Guideline_CeliacDisease_May_2013.pdf potential explanation for elevated serum transaminase levels when no other etiology can be found. Hypertransaminasemia is a Coverage of guidelines There has been a substantial increase in the potential subclinical finding that is gluten from other organizations prevalence of celiac disease over the past 50 dependent in patients with celiac disease. does not imply endorse- years, and in the rate of diagnosis over the There is evidence that celiac disease is ment by AFP or the AAFP. past decade. Despite this, it remains under- significantly more common in persons with A collection of Practice diagnosed in the United States. The Ameri- type 1 diabetes mellitus than in the gen- Guidelines published in AFP is available at http:// www.aafp.org/afp/ released clinical guidelines with recommen- ated with greater risk of retinopathy and practguide. dations for diagnosing and managing celiac nephropathy. However, testing for celiac disease. disease in asymptomatic patients is contro- versial. Patients with type 1 diabetes should Screening be tested for celiac disease only if they have Celiac disease is one of the most common digestive symptoms, signs, or laboratory causes of chronic malabsorption. Patients evidence of the disease. with symptoms, signs, or laboratory evidence of malabsorption (e.g., chronic diarrhea with Diagnostic Testing weight loss, steatorrhea, postprandial abdom- All diagnostic serologic testing for celiac dis- inal pain and bloating) should be tested ease should be performed before a gluten-free for celiac disease. Because the prevalence of diet is initiated. Antibodies directed against celiac disease in clinical scenarios varies from native gliadin are no longer recommended modest (e.g., in patients with irritable bowel for primary detection. Immunoglobulin A syndrome) to substantial (e.g., in those with (IgA) anti-tissue transglutaminase (TTG) unexplained iron deficiency anemia), patients antibody is the preferred test in persons in whom celiac disease is a treatable cause older
