Practice Guidelines
KEYWORDS: disease, celiac, celiac disease, patients, testing, diet, diagnosis, gluten, symptoms, gluten-free, persons, gluten-free diet, iga, considered, histologic


substantial (e.g., in those with (IgA) anti-tissue transglutaminase (TTG) unexplained iron deficiency anemia), patients antibody is the preferred test in persons in whom celiac disease is a treatable cause older than two years. In younger children, should also be considered for testing. TTG IgA testing should be combined with The incidence of celiac disease is signifi- IgG- and IgA-deamidated gliadin peptides to cantly increased among persons with a first- improve sensitivity. degree family member who has the disease. Combining several tests instead of TTG Persons with an immediate family mem- IgA testing alone may marginally increase ber who has a confirmed diagnosis should sensitivity, but it reduces specificity and is not be tested if they have signs, symptoms, or recommended in low-risk populations. Total laboratory evidence of the disease. Test- IgA should be measured in persons with a MDoawrcnhlo a1d5e, d2 f0r1o4m ◆th Ve oAlmuemrieca 8n9 F, aNmuilym Pbheyrsi c6ia n website at www.aafp.worwg/waf.pa. aCfopp.yorriggh/ta ©fp 2 014 American Academy of FamAimly ePrhiycsaicnia nFsa. mFoirl tyh Pe hpryivsaicteia, nno n4co8m5- mercial use of one individual user of the website. All other rights reserved. Contact for copyright questions and/or permission requests. Practice Guidelines high probability of celiac disease and in whom because HLA-DQ2 is present in 25% to 30% the possibility of IgA deficiency is considered. of the white population, testing for either Alternatively, IgA and IgG testing can be heterodimer should not be performed rou- performed simultaneously. IgG-based testing tinely. Testing for HLA-DQ2 and HLA-DQ8 should be performed in patients with low IgA may be useful to rule out celiac disease in levels or selective IgA deficiency. select patients, such as those with Down If suspicion for celiac disease remains syndrome; those with equivocal small-bowel high even after negative results have been histologic findings; those following a gluten- obtained on serologic testing, bowel biopsy free diet in whom testing for celiac disease should be pursued. was not performed before the diet initiation; those with discrepant celiac-specific serology Confirmatory Testing and histology; and those for whom the origi- Confirmation of a diagnosis of celiac disease nal diagnosis of celiac disease is in question. should be based on a combination of findings Capsule endoscopy allows for noninva- from the medical history, physical examina- sive visualization of the whole small-bowel tion, serology, and upper endoscopy with mucosa. However, it should not be used for histologic analysis of multiple duodenal biop- initial diagnosis of
