Practice Guidelines
KEYWORDS: disease, celiac, celiac disease, patients, testing, diet, diagnosis, gluten, symptoms, gluten-free, persons, gluten-free diet, iga, considered, histologic


examina- sive visualization of the whole small-bowel tion, serology, and upper endoscopy with mucosa. However, it should not be used for histologic analysis of multiple duodenal biop- initial diagnosis of celiac disease except in sies. Gastrointestinal symptoms alone cannot patients with positive celiac-specific serol- accurately differentiate celiac disease from ogy who are unable or unwilling to undergo other gastrointestinal disorders. Improve- upper endoscopy with biopsy. It may be ment of symptoms after initiation of a gluten- considered for the evaluation of small- free diet or clinical exacerbation of symptoms bowel mucosa in patients with complicated after reintroduction of gluten has a very low celiac disease. positive predictive value for celiac disease, Tests that are not recommended for the and should not be used in the diagnosis in the diagnosis of celiac disease include stool absence of other supportive evidence. studies, small-bowel follow-through, intes- A diagnosis of celiac disease requires the tinal permeability testing, D-xylose testing, demonstration of histologic changes asso- and salivary testing. ciated with the disease. Upper endoscopy with small bowel biopsy is a critical compo- Differentiating Celiac Disease from nent of the evaluation. Multiple duodenal Non-Celiac Gluten Sensitivity biopsies (one or two of the bulb and at least Non-celiac gluten sensitivity is a condition in four of the distal duodenum) are recom- which the diagnostic features of celiac disease mended to confirm the diagnosis. are not present, but patients nonetheless Lymphocytic infiltration of the intestinal develop celiac-like symptoms when exposed epithelium in the absence of villous atro- to dietary gluten. Celiac disease should be phy is not specific for celiac disease. Most differentiated from non-celiac gluten sensi- patients with lymphocytic duodenosis are tivity to identify patients at risk of nutritional not in the spectrum of celiac disease, and deficiency and complications of celiac dis- other causes (e.g., Helicobacter pylori infec- ease, to determine the risk of celiac disease tion, small bowel bacterial overgrowth, and associated disorders in family members, systemic autoimmune disorders) should be and to influence the degree and duration of considered after a workup to rule out celiac adherence to a gluten-free diet. Symptoms disease. alone or symptom response to a gluten-free diet cannot reliably differentiate the condi- Ancillary Testing tions, and there is often substantial overlap in The most significant genetic risk factor for symptoms. The diagnosis of non-celiac gluten celiac disease is the presence of HLA-DQ sensitivity should be considered only after heterodimers DQ2
