Practice Guidelines
KEYWORDS: disease, celiac, celiac disease, patients, testing, diet, diagnosis, gluten, symptoms, gluten-free, persons, gluten-free diet, iga, considered, histologic


overlap in The most significant genetic risk factor for symptoms. The diagnosis of non-celiac gluten celiac disease is the presence of HLA-DQ sensitivity should be considered only after heterodimers DQ2 and DQ8; HLA-DQ2 celiac disease has been ruled out by appropri- and HLA-DQ8 are present in almost all ate testing (e.g., celiac serology, small bowel patients with the disease (with a negative histology in patients who are not following a predictive value of more than 99% when gluten-free diet, HLA-DQ typing to rule out both test results are negative). However, celiac disease). Practice Guidelines Diagnosis in Patients Following a seem to be safe for most persons with celiac Gluten-Free Diet disease, they should be introduced slowly, The specific serologic and histologic features and patients should be monitored for adverse of celiac disease do not normalize immediately reactions. after initiating a gluten-free diet. If a patient Patients with celiac disease should be has been following the diet for less than one referred to a dietitian for a nutritional assess- month, serologic and histologic findings are ment and counseling about a gluten-free often still abnormal and can be used for diag- diet. Those with a new diagnosis should also nosis. Conversely, some findings will revert to undergo testing for micronutrient deficiencies normal soon after initiating the diet. There- (e.g., iron, folic acid, vitamin D, vitamin B ). fore, normal histologic and serologic findings Patients with celiac disease should be cannot be used to exclude celiac disease in monitored regularly for new or residual patients who are following a gluten-free diet. symptoms, adherence to the diet, and assess- Gluten challenge testing is the preferred ment for complications. In children, special diagnostic test in HLA-DQ2– and HLA- attention is recommended to assure normal DQ8–positive patients who have normal growth and development. Consultation with serologic and histologic findings when fol- a dietitian is recommended if gluten con- lowing a gluten-free diet. Some patients will tamination is suspected. opt to continue a strict gluten-free diet with- A combination of history and serology out undergoing a formal gluten challenge should be used to monitor adherence to a test; these patients should be treated simi- gluten-free diet. Monitoring should also larly to those with confirmed celiac disease. include verification that clinical abnormali- ties detected on initial laboratory inves- Management tigations have normalized. If symptoms ment for celiac disease. For the duration of upper endoscopy with bowel biopsies is
