Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, prediabetes, risk, prevention, impaired, study, people, ifg, care, fasting, type, insulin, igt


ABSTRACT The global epidemic of type 2 diabetes remains one of the greatest health challenges of our time. The collective human and economic costs are staggering and rising. Widespread initiatives now exist to prevent diabetes wherever possible. These initiatives are singularly focused on preventing diabetes in the very highest risk group: people with prediabetes. Plasma glucose concentrations can exist over a continuum with normoglycemia on one side and diabetes mellitus on the other. Nevertheless, the concept of “prediabetes” – a state of neither normoglycemia or bonafide diabetes – has been in the clinical purview since the first formal diagnostic criteria of diabetes itself. Most can agree that prediabetes represents a high-risk state for diabetes (and for the sake of this review, high-risk for type 2 diabetes, specifically), but consensus is lacking for much else, including the diagnostic thresholds, if, when, or what to initiate as to pharmacotherapy for diabetes prevention, and whether prediabetes is actually just an earlier form of diabetes warranting similarly aggressive risk factor modification for diabetes-related complications. In this chapter, PREDIABETES, we will review the recommendations for screening, diagnosis, and intervention, largely according to the American Diabetes Association (ADA). We will also look at the pathogenesis of this highly heterogeneous dysglycemic state as well as an increasing body of evidence that treatment of prediabetes back to normoglycemia should be the goal for people with prediabetes. Lastly, the scientific evidence reviewed will be distilled into an example of a conversation intended to engage patients in this process. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION In 1979-1980, the National Diabetes Data Group and World Health Organization introduced the first formal diagnostic criteria for diabetes ( 1 , 2 ). Cross sectional observations that the presence of both microvascular disease (MVD) ( 3 - 6 ) and cardiovascular disease (CVD) ( 7 , 8 ) were higher when fasting plasma glucose (FPG) was ≥140 mg/dl and/or 2-hour post-challenge glucose (2h-PG) was ≥ 200 mg/dl were confirmed in longitudinal population studies, providing rationale for these cut points ( 9 - 11 ). Nevertheless, clear evidence that lowering plasma glucose could prevent diabetic complications was not available until the 1993 publication of the Diabetes Complications and Control Trial (DCCT) ( 12 ). The DCCT noted an inflection point between A1c 6.5-7.0% (48-53 mmol/mol) and risk for retinopathy, as well as a
