Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, prediabetes, risk, prevention, impaired, study, people, ifg, care, fasting, type, insulin, igt


of the Diabetes Complications and Control Trial (DCCT) ( 12 ). The DCCT noted an inflection point between A1c 6.5-7.0% (48-53 mmol/mol) and risk for retinopathy, as well as a 76% reduction in retinopathy, in participants with type 1 diabetes randomized to intensive treatment ( 12 ). Hence, the A1c goal of <6.5-7.0% soon became – and has remained – the major benchmark of care for people with diabetes (type 1 and 2) ( 13 ). Diagnostic criteria for diabetes have evolved over the years, lowering plasma glucose thresholds ( 14 ) and even advocating use of the A1c for diagnosis ( 15 ), while continuing to calibrate these thresholds against risk for retinopathy. Far less well known than the landmark publication of the DCCT is the re-analysis of the original data demonstrating a flaw in the models with no inflection point in A1c and risk for retinopathy noted ( 16 ). Instead, reduction in retinopathy was appreciated across the A1c range, including what is now considered the pre-diabetic A1c range. The first formal diagnostic criteria for “pre”-diabetes (i.e. impaired glucose tolerance) were introduced concurrently with those for diabetes itself ( 1 ). Diagnostic thresholds for prediabetes have been more moveable ( 14 , 15 , 17 ) and more controversial. Despite evidence demonstrating higher MVD and CVD in people with prediabetes compared to their normoglycemic peers ( 18 - 21 ), treatment of people with prediabetes is uncommon ( 22 , 23 ) as the notion of a “pre” disease presents a clinical and regulatory conundrum. SCREENING Much ado has been made about the cost-effectiveness of screening for prediabetes. Nevertheless, because roughly one-quarter of people with diabetes in the U.S. remain undiagnosed ( 24 ), numerous guidelines do advocate screening for dysglycemia (e.g. diabetes and prediabetes). According to the American Diabetes Association (ADA) together with the European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD), an informal assessment of risk factors or use of a risk assessment tool (e.g. www.diabetes.org/socrisktest) can guide who should undergo blood testing ( 25 ). Children ≥ 10 years old or who have gone through puberty (whichever occurs first) who are >85 th % weight for height, with one or more risk factors ( Table 1 ), should be screened. Non-pregnant adults ≥ 35 years without risk factors, or adults of any age who are overweight (BMI ≥ 25 kg/m 2 or BMI ≥ 23
