Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, prediabetes, risk, prevention, impaired, study, people, ifg, care, fasting, type, insulin, igt


fact that A1c-defined prediabetes appears to confer worse outcomes than prediabetes defined by fasting or 2-hour glucose criteria ( 35 ), the use of the A1c is not supported by the World Health Organization (WHO) for the diagnosis of prediabetes ( 36 ). Table 2. Current Diagnostic Criteria for Prediabetes (ADA & EASD) View in own window Fasting plasma glucose 100-125 mg/dl and/or Glucose 140-199 mg/dl 2-hours post 75 g OGTT and/or A1c 5.7-6.4% PREVALENCE The changes in diagnostic criteria over the past years make it difficult to estimate exact trends in the global burden of prediabetes. However, by combining recent data from diverse sources, the prevalence of prediabetes can roughly be approximated. In 2021, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) estimated that 96 million Americans – 38% of the adult population – had prediabetes demonstrating an increase in the percent of the population that has prediabetes that had previously been stable ( 24 ). Discordance in the diagnostic criteria for prediabetes, regional differences in surveillance and reporting for chronic diseases, and other cultural nuances pose challenges in estimating the global burden of prediabetes. To this point, the literature is currently devoid of any estimate of global prevalence of IFG, specifically. In 2017, the International Diabetes Federation (IDF) estimated the worldwide prevalence of IGT at 318 million - a number expected to increase to 482 million by 2040 ( www.diabetesatlas.org ) – with no further update in 2021. Data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) would contend that the prevalence of IFG is twice that of IGT ( 37 ) (using ADA criteria), suggesting that the worldwide prevalence of prediabetes (IFG and/or IGT) may exceed 1 billion. Most alarming is that roughly one- third of people with IGT (and possibly IFG) are between 20 and 39 years old, thus are expected to spend many years at risk for or with diabetes (www.diabetesatlas.org). RISK FOR DIABETES Screening for and diagnosis of prediabetes is advocated as it represents a high-risk state for the development of overt type 2 diabetes. A recent meta-analysis showed that the yearly progression rate to diabetes in individuals with prediabetes is 3.5-7.0% (vs. 2%/year in their normoglycemic counterparts) ( 28 ), with highest rates in those with combined IFG and IGT and the lowest in those with IFG by ADA (vs. WHO) definition ( 38 ). Increasing A1c is also associated with increased risk of
