Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, prediabetes, risk, prevention, impaired, study, people, ifg, care, fasting, type, insulin, igt


those with combined IFG and IGT and the lowest in those with IFG by ADA (vs. WHO) definition ( 38 ). Increasing A1c is also associated with increased risk of diabetes with yearly incidence rates approximating 5% for those with an A1c of 5.7-6.0% and up to 10% for those with an A1c of 6.1-6.4% ( 39 ). Adding non-glycemic risk factors ( Table 1 ) to the diagnosis of prediabetes markedly increases risk for diabetes, approaching 30% per year ( 40 ). Decompensation from prediabetes to diabetes appears rapid in the later stages ( 41 ) and may warrant closer monitoring for people close to the thresholds for diabetes as well as earlier risk factor modification. A recent study looked at the prevalence of prediabetes and risk of developing diabetes in 3412 individuals between 71 and 90 years of age ( 42 ). The prevalence of diabetes in this population was very high with 44% meeting the criteria based on A1C, 59% based on fasting glucose, 73% based on either A1c or fasting glucose, and 29% based on both A1c and fasting glucose. After a median 5-year follow-up only 9% of individuals with prediabetes based on A1c developed diabetes and only 8% of individuals with prediabetes based on fasting glucose developed diabetes. In individuals with prediabetes based on both A1c and fasting glucose levels 12% developed diabetes during the 5-year follow-up period. Many of the individuals with prediabetes regressed to normal glycemia. Thus, in the elderly the risk of progressing from prediabetes to diabetes appears to be lower than in middle aged individuals. SUBTYPES & PATHOGENESIS Not long ago, the universal teaching was that post-prandial hyperglycemia always preceded fasting hyperglycemia in the evolution of diabetes ( Figure 1 ). The past decade has ushered in compelling evidence that this is not always the case. IFG can be isolated or precede IGT, IGT can be isolated or precede IFG, or they can be concurrent in the prediabetic state ( 27 , 29 , 43 ) ( Figure 1 ). This realization has sparked rigorous investigations into the pathogenesis of the subtypes - IFG, IGT and IFG/IGT - as discreet prediabetic states. Early studies used the homeostasis model assessment (HOMA) to delineate IFG from IGT, concluding that IFG was more insulin resistant than IGT ( 43 ). Most noteworthy is the fact that this conclusion is inherently flawed since HOMA relies
