Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, prediabetes, risk, prevention, impaired, study, people, ifg, care, fasting, type, insulin, igt


delineate IFG from IGT, concluding that IFG was more insulin resistant than IGT ( 43 ). Most noteworthy is the fact that this conclusion is inherently flawed since HOMA relies on FPG (i.e., HOMA-IR = FPG x FPI / 22.5) and IFG is defined by FPG. Fortunately, more rigorous investigations have followed. Figure 1. A) Former concept as to the pathophysiology of prediabetes and diabetes >10 years ago; B) Current knowledge as to the pathophysiology of prediabetes and diabetes <10 years In some individuals, type 2 diabetes seems to develop as a consequence of inherent beta cell dysfunction ( 44 ). In others, development of insulin resistance precedes defects in the pancreatic beta cells ( 44 , 45 ). These findings underscore that prediabetes (like type 2 diabetes) is not a single disease entity, but rather multiple diseases with different pathologies ( Table 3 ) and trajectories for disease development. This notion is supported by longitudinal data from the Whitehall II Study illustrating that the underlying disease mechanisms for individuals developing type 2 diabetes differ depending on whether diabetes is diagnosed by increased fasting or 2-hour plasma glucose levels ( 44 ). Further, this heterogeneity in the disease process is present decades before the clinical onset of diabetes. Defects unique to IFG and IGT may be collective or unique when IFG and IGT exist in combination ( 46 ). Table 3. Overview of the Distinguishing Features of IFG vs. IGT View in own window IFG IGT Demographics Men > women Women > men Younger Older Lipids High plasma triglycerides --- Low HDL cholesterol --- Site of insulin resistance Liver Skeletal muscle Type of beta cell defect 1 st phase insulin secretion 2 nd phase insulin secretion Impaired Fasting Glucose (IFG) THE ROLE OF THE LIVER In healthy humans, circulating plasma glucose concentration is maintained in a narrow range by the liver’s ability to regulate its direction of glucose flux ( 47 ). By virtue of hepatic insulin resistance ( 48 ), decreased hepatic glucose clearance ( 49 ), or lower glucose effectiveness ( 50 ), endogenous glucose production (EGP) becomes abnormal in the development of isolated IFG ( 48 , 51 - 54 ). EGP, as measured by glucose rate of appearance (Ra), has been reported as 8-25% higher in people with IFG vs. normal glucose tolerant (NGT) controls in some studies ( 46 , 54 ), or “inappropriately” comparable
