Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, prediabetes, risk, prevention, impaired, study, people, ifg, care, fasting, type, insulin, igt


of appearance (Ra), has been reported as 8-25% higher in people with IFG vs. normal glucose tolerant (NGT) controls in some studies ( 46 , 54 ), or “inappropriately” comparable to NGT (given the higher circulating glucose and insulin levels in IFG) in others ( 48 , 55 ). It is clear that the liver, rather than muscle, plays a distinctive role in the pathogenesis of IFG. THE ROLE OF THE BETA CELL Unique defects in beta cell function are seen in concert with the defects in the liver in people with isolated IFG. Collective data suggest that beta cell function may be intrinsically impaired, vs. acquired, in IFG. This notion is supported by epidemiologic studies showing diminished insulin response to glucose in normoglycemic individuals who later develop isolated IFG ( 56 ) and that this defect may be seen as long as 18 years before they are diagnosed with diabetes ( 44 ). Furthermore, beta cell dysfunction has been demonstrated in individuals with isolated IFG and normal peripheral insulin sensitivity ( 48 , 51 ). The exact manner of beta cell dysfunction in IFG appears specific to 1 st vs. 2 nd phase insulin secretion ( 55 , 57 ). It should be pointed out, however, that 1 st phase insulin secretion is only appreciated in response to an intravenous glucose challenge bringing its physiologic relevance into question. Studies carefully examining insulin secretion in IFG (vs. NGT or IGT) have uniformly noted decrements in response to intravenous, but not oral, glucose challenges ( 46 , 48 , 51 , 54 , 55 ). Collectively, these data imply a dependence on the incretin hormones to maintain normal insulin secretion in IFG that may diverge from the role of the incretin hormones to facilitate insulin secretion in IGT. OTHER DISTINGUISHING AND NON-DISTINGUISHING FEATURES OF IFG Despite the implication of different roles for the incretin hormones in conferring IFG vs. IGT, existing data are conflicting ( 51 , 58 ). Likewise, plasma glucagon concentrations ( 51 ), adipose tissue mass and function ( 59 ) do not appear different, and other pathogenic features such as intramuscular lipids have not been compared between the subtypes of prediabetes. Of note, people with IFG tend to be male and younger – whereas those with IGT female and older - and have slight differences in their risk factors for CVD ( 43 , 60 , 61
