Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, prediabetes, risk, prevention, impaired, study, people, ifg, care, fasting, type, insulin, igt


to be male and younger – whereas those with IGT female and older - and have slight differences in their risk factors for CVD ( 43 , 60 , 61 ). Impaired Glucose Tolerance (IGT) THE ROLE OF SKELETAL MUSCLE Despite reports of greater hepatic fat in people with IGT vs. IFG ( 62 ), skeletal muscle, rather than liver, has been implicated as the site of insulin resistance in isolated IGT. Glucose rate of disappearance (Rd; a measure of muscle insulin sensitivity) has been shown to be 42-48% lower in IGT vs. NGT ( 48 , 55 ) with only minimal impairments seen in IFG ( 54 ). Because of the larger contribution of muscle (vs. liver) to whole-body insulin sensitivity, people with isolated IGT demonstrate on average 15-30% lower whole body insulin sensitivity compared to those with isolated IFG ( 51 , 52 , 57 ). THE ROLE OF THE BETA CELL In contrast to IFG, beta cell dysfunction appears to be acquired rather than intrinsic in IGT. For example, long-term population studies have not noted early defects in people destined to develop isolated IGT ( 56 ). Nevertheless, beta cell dysfunction has been repeatedly observed in people with established IGT, particularly when significant whole body and skeletal muscle insulin resistance co-exists ( 51 , 56 , 63 , 64 ). The exact manner of beta cell dysfunction in IGT appears specific to 2nd vs. 1st phase insulin secretion ( 55 , 57 ) and is observed whether or not the incretin-axis is invoked during the assessment. A1c-Defined Prediabetes Recent trends in medical practice have seen the 2-hour OGTT fall from grace and be replaced by the A1c, even for the diagnosis and surveillance of prediabetes. Being that A1c is a composite of fasting and post-prandial glucose concentrations, it cannot delineate IFG from IGT nor any of the pathology unique to either. Alpha-hydroxybuytric acid, linoleoyl-glycerophosphocholine, and oleic acid have been shown predictive of 2-hour glucose values in three European cohort studies ( 65 ), hence may hold value if the pathophysiologic differences between IFG and IGT are to guide clinical decision-making in the future. Currently, the strategies for diabetes prevention do not discriminate between the subtypes of prediabetes. CLINICAL TRIALS AIMED AT PREVENTING OR DELAYING DIABETES With the global surge in the prevalence of type 2 diabetes, focus on its prevention has intensified. Clinical trials for diabetes prevention
