Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, prediabetes, risk, prevention, impaired, study, people, ifg, care, fasting, type, insulin, igt


CLINICAL TRIALS AIMED AT PREVENTING OR DELAYING DIABETES With the global surge in the prevalence of type 2 diabetes, focus on its prevention has intensified. Clinical trials for diabetes prevention around the globe have universally enrolled participants with untreated prediabetes (mostly IGT) due to their high risk for acquiring overt diabetes ( 28 ). Approaches for the prevention of diabetes have included intensive lifestyle modification ( 66 - 68 ) ( Figure 2 ) or drug therapy using glucose-lowering medications ( 69 - 76 ) ( Figure 3 ) or anti-obesity medications ( 77 - 81 ) ( Figure 4 ). Lifestyle interventions have utilized a low fat (<30% calories from fat; <10% from saturated fat) hypocaloric diet and moderate intensity exercise ~150 minutes per week for the purpose of 5-7% weight reduction. With the exception of the NAVIGATOR Trial ( 75 ), collective results demonstrate that diabetes incidence can be reduced by 20-89% over 2.4-6 years in a wide range of ethnic groups. Figure 2. Major trials using intensive lifestyle interventions for diabetes prevention Figure 3. Major trials using glucose-lowering medications for diabetes prevention Figure 4. Major trials using anti-obesity medications for diabetes prevention Despite success amongst the various strategies employed, only intensive lifestyle modification has been universally advocated. The lifestyle curriculum designed for the U.S. Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) serves as the foundation for the National DPP (NDPP) – the translational effort of bringing clinical trial results to the real world (www.cdc.gov/diabetes/prevention). A recent meta-analysis of 63 publications stemming from international real-world translations of clinical trial lifestyle curriculum demonstrated a 3% reduction in absolute risk and 29% reduction in relative risk for active participants, even when weight loss was modest ( 82 ). Likewise, the National Health Service Diabetes Prevention Programme (NHS DPP) began implementation across the United Kingdom in 2016 ( 83 ). Evaluation of the program showed a consistent ~40% reduction in onset of diabetes over 13.4 months, including when the curriculum was delivered by lay volunteers ( 84 ). Initiation of metformin in people with pre-diabetes is recommended for those younger than 65 years old with a body mass index (BMI) ≥ 25 kg/m 2 ( 85 ). To date, only ~0.7% of people with prediabetes in the U.S. are treated with metformin ( 23 ). It should be noted that no medication is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the
