Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, prediabetes, risk, prevention, impaired, study, people, ifg, care, fasting, type, insulin, igt


prediabetes in the U.S. are treated with metformin ( 23 ). It should be noted that no medication is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of prediabetes – not even metformin – as the FDA does not recognize prediabetes as a disease. In fact, the mere notion of a “pre” disease creates a clinical and regulatory conundrum. In 2008, the FDA issued guidance for industry developing drugs for the treatment or prevention of diabetes stating that it would consider approving pharmacotherapy for prediabetes if the drug could show “clinical benefit” (e.g. a delay or lessening in micro- or macrovascular complications) ( https://www.fda.gov/downloads/ Drugs/GuidanceComplianceRegulatoryInformation/Guidances/ucm071624.pdf). Increasing evidence shows this may be possible. COMPLICATIONS OF PREDIABETES It is alluring to imagine an A1c threshold below which patients are fully protected from diabetic complications ( 86 ). This quest has proven less straightforward than is widely acknowledged. People with prediabetes can suffer the same micro-, macrovascular, and non-vascular complications as people with diabetes, just at a lower incidence rate. Further, data exist and studies ongoing to show clear benefit from early intervention for people with prediabetes (www.clinicaltrials.gov/prediabetes). Microvascular Diabetes remains a leading cause of blindness, kidney failure, and amputations around the world. Benchmarks for diabetes care are explicitly based on the prevention of such microvascular complications ( 13 ). Nonetheless, complications of diabetes increase with increasing glycemia, even in the prediabetic glucose range. For example, nearly 10% of DPP participants had diabetic retinopathy, without diabetes, in a cross sectional analysis ( 19 ). Moreover, data from NHANES suggests the steepest increase in risk for retinopathy occurs at an A1c of 5.5% ( 18 ), which would be considered normoglycemia by current ADA and WHO criteria. Polyneuropathy has also been reported as more prevalent in prediabetes, affecting 13% of people with IGT and 11.3% with IFG compared to 7.4% with NGT ( 21 ). Lastly, microalbuminuria doubles in prevalence with the onset of IFG or IGT, whereas its progression appears slower at the diagnostic threshold for overt diabetes ( 87 ). Recent trends reveal chronic kidney disease (defined as a glomerular filtration rate (GFR) < 60 ml/min/1.73 m 2 ) is now as prevalent in people with prediabetes as diabetes itself ( 88 ). Perhaps more surprising than the incidence and prevalence of microvascular disease in people with prediabetes are data showing benefit from early interventions. For example, the
