Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, prediabetes, risk, prevention, impaired, study, people, ifg, care, fasting, type, insulin, igt


diabetes itself ( 88 ). Perhaps more surprising than the incidence and prevalence of microvascular disease in people with prediabetes are data showing benefit from early interventions. For example, the DPP Outcomes Study (DPPOS) demonstrated a 21% lower prevalence of the composite microvascular endpoint (retinopathy, nephropathy and/or neuropathy) in women who had been randomized to the intensive lifestyle intervention and followed 15 years post-randomization and a 28% lower prevalence across the treatment groups when diabetes was prevented ( 89 ). In the roughly 600 participants with prediabetes that entered the Swedish Obesity Study (SOS), the composite microvascular endpoint was 82% lower in those who underwent bariatric surgery a median of 19 years after their procedure – an effect size that was much greater than for those who entered the study with either diabetes or normoglycemia ( 90 ). Lastly, retinopathy was shown reduced by 40% in the 30-year follow-up of the Da Qing Study – a study that rendered a meager average of 1.8 kg weight loss during the intervention period ( 91 ). Altogether, there is increasing evidence that people with prediabetes are at risk for classic complications of diabetes and these can be prevented with early intervention ( Figure 5 ). Figure 5. Trials demonstrating a reduction in microvascular disease in people with prediabetes Macrovascular In 2010, a meta-analysis by Ford et al. illustrated an approximate 20% increased risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in people with prediabetes, irrespective of type (IFG or IGT), criteria used to define it, or the development of diabetes ( 20 ). As a continuous variable, however, CVD risk appears more closely related to 2-hour than fasting glucose ( 92 ). In 2018, serial cross sectional data from NHANES showed surprising similarity in the prevalence of myocardial infarction and stroke in people with prediabetes vs. diabetes ( 88 ) likely due to the dramatic fall in incident myocardial infarction and stroke in people with diabetes ( 93 ). This finding implies that CVD may now be as common in people with prediabetes as with diabetes (recently reviewed by ( 94 )). It should be recognized that whether the elevated glucose is causing the increased risk of CVD in individuals with prediabetes is uncertain as prediabetes is associated with other factors such as obesity, insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, hypertension, hypercoagulation, and inflammation that could be playing important roles in increasing the risk of CVD. As with
