Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, prediabetes, risk, prevention, impaired, study, people, ifg, care, fasting, type, insulin, igt


prediabetes is associated with other factors such as obesity, insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, hypertension, hypercoagulation, and inflammation that could be playing important roles in increasing the risk of CVD. As with microvascular disease, data do exist that early intervention also prevents macrovascular disease in people with prediabetes ( Figure 6 ). The first study to contend that this may be the case came from a post-hoc analysis of STOP-NIDDM – a trial that used acarbose to prevent or delay diabetes in people with prediabetes. This analysis showed a highly unexpected 49% lower probability of any CV event in the group randomized to acarbose ( 95 ). Interestingly, the trial was repeated, powered with benefit as the a priori hypothesis and did not succeed at recapitulating the prior findings ( 73 ). Differences in medication dosage and ethnic admixture may or may not explain the discrepancy. Nevertheless, pioglitazone has been shown to reduce CV events over 4.8 years in insulin-resistant people 6 months post-stroke with an average A1c of 5.8% ( 96 ). Likewise, the Da Qing Study revealed a 33% lower CV mortality and 26% lower all-cause mortality, whilst still preventing diabetes, 30 years into the post-randomization follow-up ( 91 ). CV data from the DPPOS is expected shortly with great anticipation that prediabetes may finally be recognized as an earlier form of diabetes warranting intervention. While the effect of lowering glucose levels in individuals with prediabetes is uncertain given the high risk of CVD in this population aggressive treatment of dyslipidemia and hypertension is indicated given the large number of studies showing benefits. Figure 6. Trials demonstrating a reduction in macrovascular disease in people with prediabetes Not Necessarily Vascular Although risk factor modification largely focuses on preventing the classic complications of diabetes, greater attention is being paid to a much larger scope of possible comorbidities. A recent study elaborated on structural brain abnormalities in people with prediabetes that are linked to dementia, stroke, and depression and hypothesized that glucose-lowering may reverse the abnormalities ( 97 ). Functionally, these brain changes lead to slower processing speeds and cognitive deficits ( 98 ). Mild cognitive impairments are accelerated by the presence of prediabetes leading to frank dementia ( 99 ). Unequivocally, cognitive impairments and dementia dramatically reduce quality of life for both patients and their care-takers. Fortunately, patient-reported outcomes are becoming increasing revered as a scientific endpoint and may provide additional rationale
