Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, prediabetes, risk, prevention, impaired, study, people, ifg, care, fasting, type, insulin, igt


impairments and dementia dramatically reduce quality of life for both patients and their care-takers. Fortunately, patient-reported outcomes are becoming increasing revered as a scientific endpoint and may provide additional rationale for treating prediabetes. The much-anticipated long term outcomes from the DPPOS (expected 2020-2025) also include examining treatment effect on cognition, aspects of aging, quality of life, health care utilization and cancer. RESTORATION OF NORMOGLYCEMIA In clinical trials to date, interventions were deemed successful if diabetes was prevented or delayed, yet many participants remained with prediabetes. Arguably, prevention of diabetes and its complications lies in the restoration of normoglycemia rather than in the maintenance of prediabetes. This was confirmed by a post-hoc analysis from the Diabetes Prevention Program Outcomes Study (DPPOS) ( 100 ). This analysis demonstrated a 56% lower risk of diabetes 10 years from randomization among those who were able to achieve normoglycemia during DPP vs. those who remained with prediabetes. Additionally, restoration of normoglycemia reduced prevalence of microvascular disease ( 101 ) and CV risk factors despite less use of medication to lower lipids and blood pressure ( 102 ). The concept that diabetes and CV risk can be significantly reduced over the long-term through the pursuit of normoglycemia represents a major shift in our current thinking and has quickly gained consensus as the goal for people with prediabetes ( 103 , 104 ). Clinical predictors ( 105 ) and calculators as to the likelihood of regression ( 106 ) can be used to select and activate patients. Importantly, restoration of normoglycemia – as opposed to “diabetes prevention” – is clinically actionable. Exactly how normoglycemia should be achieved is far less clear. Data from the DPP would contend that only lifestyle modification, not metformin, is useful in achieving normoglycemia in people with prediabetes ( 105 ) ( Figure 7 ). Of note, lifestyle modification has been shown particularly effective in women ( 107 ) and the elderly ( 108 ). The thiazolidinediones (TZD’s) have also demonstrated their ability to restore normoglycemia in people with prediabetes ( 71 , 72 , 109 ) and may gain greater acceptance in this population now that their CV safety has been established. An increasing number of trials are focused on the ability of medication or lifestyle to not only prevent or delay onset of diabetes, but restore normoglycemia ( 79 , 110 , 111 ). Figure 7. Interventions that have restored normoglycemia
