Prediabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, glucose, pubmed, prediabetes, risk, prevention, impaired, study, people, ifg, care, fasting, type, insulin, igt


of medication or lifestyle to not only prevent or delay onset of diabetes, but restore normoglycemia ( 79 , 110 , 111 ). Figure 7. Interventions that have restored normoglycemia in people with prediabetes TRANSLATING INFORMATION INTO CONVERSATION As we follow the recommended steps for screening and diagnosis of prediabetes outlined above, the next step in beginning the conversation with a patient with prediabetes is educating them about what the diagnosis means. An A1c of 5.7-6.0% carries up to a 25%/5-year risk, whereas an A1c 6.0-6.4% carries up to a 50%/5-year risk, and prediabetes period carries up to a 70% lifetime risk of diabetes. Further, people with prediabetes can suffer complications of diabetes even if they never convert. Early intervention can prevent diabetes by more than 50% if normoglycemia can be attained – even if transiently. Intensive lifestyle modification and a number of glucose-lowering and anti-obesity medications have been shown as capable to achieve this. Metformin is recommended for younger, overweight people with prediabetes even though it may not achieve normoglycemia as readily. Micro- and macrovascular risk factor modification is critical. Plasma glucose concentrations should be followed and re-screening for diabetes done annually. CONCLUSION In the light of the global burden of prediabetes affecting close to one billion people, the high progression rates to type 2 diabetes, and the increased risk of both micro- and macrovascular complications and death ( 112 ), efforts focused on preventing progression to diabetes and its complications are crucial. Although both intensive lifestyle intervention and various medications have proven to be effective for prevention or delay of diabetes in people with prediabetes, their uptake has been slow. This is true even in light of emerging data showing the vast benefits of early interventions. Our best bet to recognize prediabetes as a disease is probably by calling it what it is: early diabetes ( 94 ) and treat it as such, eradicating the term “prediabetes” for good. REFERENCES 1. National Diabetes Data Group. Classification and diagnosis of diabetes mellitus and other categories of glucose intolerance. Diabetes. 1979; 28 (12):1039–1057. [ PubMed : 510803 ] 2. World Health Organization. Report of the Expert Committee on Diabetes. WHO Technical Report Seies. Vol 646. Geneva, Switzerland 1980. 3. Fabre J, Balant LP, Dayer PG, Fox HM, Vernet AT. The kidney in maturity onset diabetes mellitus: a clinical study of 510 patients. Kidney Int. 1982; 21 (5):730–738. [ PubMed :
