Chapter 41: Quality of Care in People With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, care, quality, health, control, persons, risk, age, years, national, patients, cholesterol, nhanes, measures, diabetes care


care related to neuropathy and retinopathy among persons with diabetes, suggesting that many patients are not meeting standard of care recommendations. In 2005–2010, 28.6% of adults with diabetes had not had their feet checked by a health professional within the past year, and 18.8% had never conducted a self-exam on their feet. Receipt of eye care has increased over time, with 63.7% of adults with diabetes reporting having received a dilated eye exam within the past year in 2005–2010 compared to 54.4% in 1988–1994. General clinical recommendations for risk factor management in diabetes, focused on prevention and treatment of microvascular and macrovascular conditions, largely define the emphasis of high-quality care. However, this focus on individual treatment targets has several limitations. One challenge is that cardiovascular risk factor treatment advice and guidelines for patients with diabetes are issued by a wide array of stakeholder groups and recommendations often differ; cooperation across guideline development groups has improved but remains suboptimal. Further, the focus only on the “ABCs” of A1c, blood pressure, and cholesterol for improving diabetes care, particularly when tied to treatment targets, may not be appropriate for all patients. Other measures, such as prevention of diabetes, hypoglycemia, patient satisfaction, quality of life, infections, or recurrent hospitalizations, among others, could be considered. The chapter concludes with a discussion of areas in most need of improvement. Extending quality of care standards to address novel indi­ cators could improve outcomes for individuals and also may help identify system factors that could improve care across the population. WHAT IS QUALITY? Health care systems throughout the world are struggling to improve the health of their populations, with constrained budgets. Increasingly, these systems are deploying new value-based approaches to financing that reward or penalize organizations and providers depending on the quality of care that they provide (1,2). As a consequence, defining and measuring the quality of health care are essential steps in efforts to improve the performance of health care systems, to ensure the efficient use 41–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition of health care resources, and ultimately to improve the health of populations. Benchmarks of quality are also needed for individual providers and patients who are making everyday treatment and diag­ nostic testing decisions. While there is no question that measures of the quality of health care are needed, the actual defi­ nition of quality in health care has been elusive and controversial for decades. In
