Chapter 41: Quality of Care in People With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, care, quality, health, control, persons, risk, age, years, national, patients, cholesterol, nhanes, measures, diabetes care


is no question that measures of the quality of health care are needed, the actual defi­ nition of quality in health care has been elusive and controversial for decades. In a 1990 report, the Institute of Medicine defined quality as “the degree to which health services for individuals and popu­ lations increase the likelihood of desired health outcomes and are consistent with current professional knowledge” (3). The U.S. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) defines its overall focus on safety and quality as that to “reduce the risk of harm by promoting delivery of the best possible health care.” Classically, quality is defined as the extent to which health care improves important patient outcomes (4). In his landmark work on evaluating quality of care, Donabedian highlighted the multidimensional properties of quality (5). He conceptualized a model of health care quality with three key compo­ nents: structure (the setting in which care takes place), process (how care is provided), and outcomes (survival or improvement in health status). Indeed, this multidimensionality makes health care quality hard to define. For patients, satisfaction with care may contribute substantially to ratings of quality. Waiting times, spaciousness, furnishings, layout of facilities, and technology used during a health care interaction can influence perceptions of quality of care (6,7,8). For health care providers, working conditions, facilities, institutional policies, regulations, supervision, and organizational structure may influence perceptions of the quality of care being provided. Outcomes may be the more concrete metrics that lend themselves to relatively precise measurement, but they can be influenced by many factors both inside and outside the health care system (5). And indeed, choosing the most relevant outcome is critical. The definition of high-quality care in diabetes is actively evolving but has generally focused on beneficial interac­ tions among patients and health care teams, the community, and the health care system (9). Originally organized by leading diabetes stakeholders, the National Diabetes Quality Improvement Project (DQIP) developed a national set of performance and outcomes measures (10). These measures have been adopted by various organizations for quality improvement activities, namely, the Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set (HEDIS), the American Diabetes Association Provider Recognition Program, the American Medical Association Diabetes Measures Group, the Department of Veterans Affairs perfor­ mance monitoring program, and others. DQIP has since evolved to widen its partnership base and become a coalition of influential private and public national organizations, changing its name
