Chapter 41: Quality of Care in People With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, care, quality, health, control, persons, risk, age, years, national, patients, cholesterol, nhanes, measures, diabetes care


Affairs perfor­ mance monitoring program, and others. DQIP has since evolved to widen its partnership base and become a coalition of influential private and public national organizations, changing its name to the National Diabetes Quality Improvement Alliance, and later to the Diabetes Advocacy Alliance. The major parameters by which quality of care in diabetes has been historically judged at the level of the individual are control of glucose, lipids, and blood pressure, and receipt of services, such as regular eye and foot care examinations. The evidence base for this focus comes from large, randomized clinical trials designed to evaluate strategies to prevent microvascular and macrovascular compli­ cations in persons with diabetes. But, the clinical practice guidelines used to guide treatment of the individual are often distinct from quality standards and quality improvement priorities (11). THE EVIDENCE BASE FOR DEFINITIONS OF HIGH-QUALITY CARE IN DIABETES Glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c) is the primary measure for monitoring glucose control in persons with diabetes. In the past, the American Diabetes Association (ADA) and other organizations have recommended targeting A1c levels to below or around 7.0% (53 mmol/mol), based on evidence from clinical trials showing reductions in microvascular complications (12,13,14,15). However, the scientific basis to support this threshold in the modern era is more controversial. In 1993, the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) in type 1 diabetes demonstrated major reductions in the development and progression of microvascular disease among patients achieving A1c <7.0% compared to the conventionally treated group (A1c >9.0% [>75 mmol/mol]). In type 2 diabetes, evidence for pegging glycemic control targets at 7.0% initially came from the landmark United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS), published in 1998, which demonstrated major reductions in microvascular outcomes (relative risk reduction of 25% for combined microvascular endpoints, p=0.0099) and a smaller and nonsignif­ icant reduction in myocardial infarction with improved glycemic control (relative risk reduction of 16%, p=0.052) among persons with newly diagnosed diabetes (15). Persistent benefits of glycemic control for both microvascular and macro­ vascular outcomes have been shown in long-term observational follow-up of participants in both the DCCT and UKPDS studies (16,17,18,19). Notably, these trials were conducted in an era prior to the widespread use of statins and when there was less focus on tight blood pressure control as part of routine diabetes care. More recent randomized clinical trials in persons with diabetes failed to show benefit of very intensive glycemic control on macrovascular outcomes
