Chapter 41: Quality of Care in People With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, care, quality, health, control, persons, risk, age, years, national, patients, cholesterol, nhanes, measures, diabetes care


blood pressure control as part of routine diabetes care. More recent randomized clinical trials in persons with diabetes failed to show benefit of very intensive glycemic control on macrovascular outcomes and perhaps even harm (20,21,22,23,24). Consequently, there is controversy regarding whether a focus on very tight glycemic control produces overall benefit in type 2 diabetes, particularly among older adults and those with longstanding disease (25). Thus, nonglycemic risk factors comprise the focus of macrovas­ cular risk reduction strategies in diabetes, Quality of Care in People With Diabetes 41–3 along with an emphasis on individualizing treatment targets and a de-emphasis on specific thresholds. Clinical practice guidelines from the ADA and the American Heart Association specify control of blood pressure and lipids, treatment with aspirin therapy, and smoking cessation as the major strategies to reduce cardiovascular risk among persons with diabetes (26,27). It is noteworthy that the 2013 ADA clinical practice guidelines revised the systolic blood pressure control recom­ mendation to a less stringent target of <140 mmHg compared to the previously recommended goal of <130 mmHg. This revision reflects evidence from clinical trials and meta-analyses that suggests little to no additional benefit and possible harm of very strict blood pressure control compared to “usual care” (typically <140 mmHg) (28,29,30,31,32,33). ADA guide­ lines suggest that the lower target of <130 mmHg may be appropriate in certain subpopulations, such as young persons, if the target can be achieved without “undue treatment burden” (34). The ADA recommends that persons with diabetes be screened annually with a fasting lipid profile, and statin therapy is broadly recommended. Among persons with diabetes and no history of cardio­ vascular disease, moderate to high doses of statins are recommended to lower cholesterol. These recommendations are based on strong evidence from random­ ized clinical trials and meta-analyses demonstrating significant primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease in the setting of diabetes (34,35), similar to the benefits observed in nondi­ abetic populations (36,37). However, the literature regarding specific low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol thresholds is sparse, and recommendations for thresholds are not based on large studies that have specifically targeted such levels. Aspirin is also recommended as a primary cardiovascular disease prevention strategy in those persons with diabetes who have increased cardiovascular risk (most older persons and persons with additional cardiovascular risk factors), although the benefits of aspirin must be weighed against its harmful side effects, including serious bleeding events (34,38). These
