Chapter 41: Quality of Care in People With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, care, quality, health, control, persons, risk, age, years, national, patients, cholesterol, nhanes, measures, diabetes care


risk (most older persons and persons with additional cardiovascular risk factors), although the benefits of aspirin must be weighed against its harmful side effects, including serious bleeding events (34,38). These general clinical recommendations for risk factor management in diabetes, focused on prevention and treatment of microvascular and macrovascular conditions, largely define the emphasis of high-quality care in persons with diabetes. A challenge is that cardiovascular risk factor treatment advice and guidelines for patients with diabetes are issued by a wide array of stakeholder groups, and recommendations often differ from that of the ADA; cooperation across guideline development groups has improved but remains suboptimal. Moreover, as shown below, substantial gaps remain between the ADA recommendations and the quality of care received by persons with diabetes in the United States (39,40,41,42). TRENDS IN DIABETES RISK FACTOR CONTROL: RESULTS FROM THE NHANES Multiple studies have tapped national data­ sets to examine quality of diabetes care at the level of the individual. In particular, national data demonstrate a significant gap between clinical recommendations and A1c, blood pressure, and choles­ terol control in persons with diabetes in the United States (40,41,42,43,44,45, 46,47,48,49). In general, the literature demonstrates improvements in control of glucose and cardiovascular risk factors among persons with diabetes over the past several decades; however, in most studies, substantial portions of persons with diabetes do not meet recommended treat­ ment goals. New analyses were conducted for Diabetes in America, 3rd edition, to examine trends in risk factor control across multiple rounds of the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES). THE NATIONAL HEALTH AND NUTRITION EXAMINATION SURVEYS The NHANES are cross-sectional, multistage, stratified, clustered prob­ ability samples of the U.S. civilian noninstitutionalized population conducted by the National Center for Health Statistics, a branch of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The NHANES includes interview and exam­ ination components (including blood collection). The NHANES are among the most important sources of information on the health of the nation and provide comprehensive information on diabetes and its risk factors in the general U.S population. Analyses were conducted for Diabetes in America based on the Third NHANES (NHANES III) (1988–1994) and from six rounds of the continuous NHANES (1999–2010), reported in 2-year intervals. Because individual estimates from the 2-year cycles are inherently more imprecise due to the smaller sample size, focus was given to the NHANES 1988–1994, 1999–2004, and 2005–2010 periods to provide the most stable
