Chapter 41: Quality of Care in People With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, care, quality, health, control, persons, risk, age, years, national, patients, cholesterol, nhanes, measures, diabetes care


the Past Year by a Doctor Among Adults Age ≥20 Years With Diabetes, U.S., 2005–2010 Data are self-reported. Error bars represent 95% confidence intervals. SOURCE: National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys 2005–2010 Quality of Care in People With Diabetes 41–9 for diabetic retinopathy, the overall low awareness of this condition is particularly concerning. In addition to major changes in risk factor treatment and control since the 1980s, the characteristics of persons with diagnosed diabetes have changed over this period. Some of these changes are undoubtedly due to changes in screening and diagnostic practices—notably, the lowering of the fasting glucose threshold for diagnosis of diabetes from 140 mg/dL (7.77 mmol/L) to 126 mg/dL (6.99 mmol/L) in 1997. Furthermore, the proportion of cases of diabetes that are undiagnosed has decreased over the past 20 years, likely reflecting changes in screening and diagnostic practices (50). The observed age-related differences in burden of the disease and the increase in the overall reported average duration of the disease among those persons with diagnosed diabetes may also reflect earlier diagnosis, longer survival of people with the disease, and other demographic changes that have occurred over the past two decades. Observed trends in risk factor control are also driven by the avail­ ability of new medications and changes in clinical recommendations and prescribing practices (57). Age-related differences in risk factor control reflect a complex mix of factors that include disease severity and dura­ tion, survival, health care access and use, comorbid conditions, and diagnostic and treatment practices. Age-related disparities may also reflect a combination of bias and concerns regarding overtreat­ ment in the elderly. Among older adults with possibly limited lifespans, the risks of aggressive (or even usual) treatment may outweigh benefits (58,59). In older persons and/or those with substantial comorbid conditions, usual target thresh­ olds for defining high-quality diabetes care (A1c <7.0%, systolic blood pressure <130 mmHg) may actually be harmful due to the risks of hypoglycemia or hypotension (60,61). The need for measures of over­ treatment for monitoring and improving quality of care for older persons with diabetes is an ongoing issue (60). FIGURE 41.14. Frequency of Self-Checking Feet for Sores/Irritations Among Adults Age ≥20 Years With Diabetes, U.S., 2005–2010 Data are self-reported. Error bars represent 95% confidence intervals. SOURCE: National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys 2005–2010 FIGURE 41.15. Age- and Sex-Standardized Percent Distribution of Time Since Pupils Were Last Dilated Among Adults Age ≥20
