Chapter 41: Quality of Care in People With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, care, quality, health, control, persons, risk, age, years, national, patients, cholesterol, nhanes, measures, diabetes care


to the 2000 U.S. Standard Population. Error bars represent 95% confidence intervals. SOURCE: Reference 56 PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND ORGANIZATIONAL-LEVEL QUALITY IMPROVEMENT INITIATIVES AND RESULTS Performance measures are tools used to assess the level of diabetes care within a health care system or organization. The criteria used to develop and select performance measures differ from those used for recommendations for individual patients in clinical practice guidelines. These criteria include: (1) the weight and strength of evidence that improving an aspect of care will impact patient outcomes; (2) the absolute risk reduction that will be achieved; (3) a clinician’s likely response to a implementation of a measure; (4) whether there are distinct subpopulations that may require less or more intensive treatment; and (5) whether most patients would want the recom­ mended medical intervention if they were well informed (11). Another important consideration is the cost of data collec­ tion for organizations. These criteria will oftentimes lead to performance measures that differ from recommendations in clinical practice guidelines. The classic example is the evolution of performance measures for A1c over time. As of 2013, performance measures do not include an A1c <7.0% because of the awareness that subpopulations of patients (partic­ ularly older patients) may be harmed by pursuit of this level of control (62). In addi­ tion, pursuing this target in all patients may produce modest clinical benefits compared to targeting patients with higher A1c values (63). Organization-level performance measures include frequency of A1c and lipid testing, percentage of patients above or below Quality of Care in People With Diabetes 41–11 glycemic and cardiovascular risk factor treatment cutpoints (e.g., A1c <8.0%, blood pressure <140/80 mmHg, and/or LDL cholesterol <100 mg/dL), and frequency of microvascular disease screening (e.g., albuminuria, neuropathy, retinopathy). At the national level, the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) Diabetes Recognition Program recognizes clinicians who have delivered high quality on the basis of such measurements (64). Some groups have adopted combined indicators. In Minnesota, for example, an all-inclusive “optimal diabetes care” measure was adopted as part of the Minnesota Community Measurement Project. This indicator measures the percentage of patients with diabetes age 18–75 years who reach all five of the following treat­ ment goals: A1c <8.0%, blood pressure <140/90 mmHg, LDL cholesterol <100 mg/dL, daily aspirin use for patients with a history of cardiovascular disease unless contraindicated, and tobacco-free status. The Minnesota Project has had mandatory clinical data submission from
