Chapter 41: Quality of Care in People With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, care, quality, health, control, persons, risk, age, years, national, patients, cholesterol, nhanes, measures, diabetes care


LDL cholesterol <100 mg/dL, daily aspirin use for patients with a history of cardiovascular disease unless contraindicated, and tobacco-free status. The Minnesota Project has had mandatory clinical data submission from providers since 2010 and makes summary data available to the community (65). The HEDIS is a tool used by the vast majority of health plans in the United States (commercial, Medicaid, Medicare, Veterans Affairs) to measure performance and the quality of care being delivered. HEDIS measures are tied to accred­ itation, are provided to stakeholders (e.g., consumers, employers, clinicians), and can help in the comparison of perfor­ mance across organizations. HEDIS performance measures for diabetes care include A1c testing and control, LDL cholesterol screening and control, blood pressure screening and control, and medical attention for nephropathy and retinopathy. Performance measures have changed as the evidence base for diabetes care has evolved. One of the newest innovations is the interest in developing “tightly linked” quality measures, which typically require electronic medical records to implement (66). These measures identify the pres­ ence or absence of a clinical intervention in response to a specific diagnosis or poor intermediate outcome. For example, a tightly linked measure for high cholesterol would be the percentage of patients for whom a doctor prescribed a statin, esca­ lated the statin dose, or had a follow-up cholesterol measurement that was in target range. A major difficulty in comparing perfor­ mance measures across organizations is the variation in the clinical characteristics of patients (case-mix) across institutions. The inability to adequately adjust for case-mix is one reason that processes of care measures are preferable to outcome measures. Making comparisons across organizations is also hindered by data availability. The lack of uniform health information record keeping systems means that the ease of data collection, monitoring, and reporting of performance measures varies substantially across health care organizations. The increasing availability of sophisticated electronic health record systems is expected to improve diabetes performance measure­ ment (60). Many patients require more intensive care not reflected by general performance measures. The need for individualized care, especially for the most complex patients, can be at odds with usual performance measures. Institutional-level quality control improvement initiatives can significantly improve performance measures, such as frequency of screening and monitoring, but without having a significant impact on control of key individual level risk factors (blood pres­ sure, cholesterol, A1c) (67,68,69). This divide between process improvements and changes in intermediate outcomes
