Chapter 41: Quality of Care in People With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, care, quality, health, control, persons, risk, age, years, national, patients, cholesterol, nhanes, measures, diabetes care


but without having a significant impact on control of key individual level risk factors (blood pres­ sure, cholesterol, A1c) (67,68,69). This divide between process improvements and changes in intermediate outcomes has led some to question the validity of commonly used process measures (40,70). Even in studies where system- wide quality improvement initiatives were correlated with improvements in individ­ ual-level outcomes, it can be difficult to know whether this association is causal. Ecological designs and the high potential for residual confounding are major limita­ tions of the existing literature (11,71). ARE THE RIGHT THINGS BEING MEASURED? As discussed, A1c, blood pressure, and cholesterol control—the “ABCs”—are the mainstays of diabetes care. Other poten­ tially useful, but rarely used, performance measures include treatment intensifica­ tion among persons with poorly controlled risk factors (“tightly linked” measures) (72), patient satisfaction, diabetes self-manage­ ment, and lifestyle or nutrition counseling. The evidence base for treatment targets is focused on long-term outcomes (microvascular and macrovascular conditions) in persons with diagnosed diabetes. For many patients, short-term illness and more proximal outcomes, such as quality of life, hypoglycemia, and treatment burden, may be paramount (73). Outcomes such as cellulitis, infec­ tion, influenza, pneumonia, and recurrent hospitalization (especially for heart failure) are important outcomes that are not formally incorporated into diabetes care quality indicators. These complications are associated with substantial expense, particularly if they result in repeated hospitalizations. Other complications include periodontitis, gastroparesis, erec­ tile dysfunction, and depression. From the perspective of the patient and cost to the health care system, short-term clinical outcomes—especially those associated with high rates of hospital readmission—rather than risk factor control, could be particularly valuable as quality indicators in persons with diabetes. Increasingly, the narrow focus on the ABCs for improving diabetes care and the use of a common glycemic target in all persons with diabetes, regardless of age or comorbid conditions, is being questioned. A further drawback to the ABCs is that tying payment to these indi­ cators can create an incentive to focus on those patients who can more readily reach the targets (e.g., persons with few comorbid conditions, persons who are already close to target) at the expense 41–12 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition of more complicated patients less likely to achieve treatment goals. The focus of many performance measures is on single risk factors in individuals; however, most individuals have multiple co-existing risk factors, possibly other comorbid conditions, and complex interactions with
