Chapter 41: Quality of Care in People With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, care, quality, health, control, persons, risk, age, years, national, patients, cholesterol, nhanes, measures, diabetes care


goals. The focus of many performance measures is on single risk factors in individuals; however, most individuals have multiple co-existing risk factors, possibly other comorbid conditions, and complex interactions with system-level factors that can impact these quality indicators. Additionally, a focus on specific thresholds fails to recognize risk factor improvements in patients who may still remain above specified levels. The recognition that “one size may not fit all” is growing; individualized goals may be needed in certain populations (25,74). Indeed, diabetes care guidelines released in 2012 emphasize consideration of patient preference and individualization of therapy and glycemic targets, especially among older individuals and persons with comorbid conditions (25). Existing risk prediction equations and the availability of electronic medical records raise the possibility of future personalized quality measures that incorporate change over time in a patient’s risk of microvascular or macrovascular outcomes. A challenge remains that current quality measures are themselves largely not evidence based; adequate data are not available to demonstrate that one quality measure is better than another in improving care, or importantly, in reducing complications of diabetes. This is an area that should be a high priority for research. QUALITY OF CARE IN SPECIAL POPULATIONS A large literature base documents substan­ tial age- and race-related disparities in the delivery and receipt of diabetes care. As mentioned, standard targets of care may be particularly difficult to achieve and may not be appropriate among older persons with diabetes (25,75). Providing and evaluating high-quality care among older persons with diabetes is particularly complex because of the high prevalence of comorbid conditions, potentially limited life expectancy, high prevalence of impaired cognition, and the pervasive­ ness of polypharmacy in this population. Treatment strategies are not well defined in frail elderly persons, patients with long­ standing diabetes, and patients prone to recurrent or severe hypoglycemia. Persistent racial disparities in receipt of appropriate services and risk factor control among persons with diabetes have been widely documented (76,77,78,79,80, 81,82,83,84,85,86,87). Racial minority populations are less likely to receive A1c testing or screening for retinopathy compared to whites (88,89). Racial dispar­ ities persist even in populations with equal access to health care services (90,91). As shown in the new analyses of the NHANES presented above and in other recent studies (50,92), racial disparities in risk factor control are observed, with black patients with diabetes having higher levels of A1c, blood pressure, and cholesterol than whites (81,91,93). Regional variation
