Chapter 41: Quality of Care in People With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, care, quality, health, control, persons, risk, age, years, national, patients, cholesterol, nhanes, measures, diabetes care


recent studies (50,92), racial disparities in risk factor control are observed, with black patients with diabetes having higher levels of A1c, blood pressure, and cholesterol than whites (81,91,93). Regional variation in quality of care indi­ cators for diabetes has also been studied (91), but few measures are available across all states or other regions to allow for consistent comparison. Better understanding and awareness of regional differences could affect resource allo­ cation and intervention efforts to help ameliorate differences in care. In the 1970s, approximately 5% of children and adolescents were overweight or obese; in 2010, this prevalence reached 25% (94,95). This astonishing increase in overweight and obesity over the past 30 years among young persons has led to a growing epidemic of type 2 diabetes among children and adolescents. For the first time, a technical report from the American Academy of Pediatrics, published in 2013, lays out specific recommendations for the management of type 2 diabetes in patients age 10–18 years, including guidelines for monitoring of A1c, self-monitoring of blood glucose, and management of cardiovascular risk factors (96). The report emphasizes strategies that have been shown to improve outcomes in pediatric populations, but a paucity of evidence is available to inform the management of type 2 diabetes in young persons. Consequently, much uncertainty remains regarding the best approaches to care in this growing population. Persons with serious mental illness are at high risk for chronic diseases, including diabetes, and some medications used to treat mental illness are directly implicated in the development of obesity and diabetes (97,98,99). Risk factor control can be particularly complicated and challenging in this high-risk population, and persons with mental illness may receive less intense medical care and are less likely to achieve treatment targets (100,101,102). However, evidence from a 2013 randomized clinical trial demonstrated that a behavioral weight loss intervention significantly reduced weight over an 18-month period in overweight and obese adults with serious mental illness, suggesting that intensive, tailored interventions can successfully address the high burden of disease and its risk factors in this population (103). The needs of population subgroups further highlight weaknesses of a narrow focus on the ABCs of quality of care in persons with diabetes and support the 2012 position statement of the ADA and the European Association for the Study of Diabetes that emphasizes the need for individualization of treatment in diabetes (25). Quality of Care in People With
