Chapter 41: Quality of Care in People With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, care, quality, health, control, persons, risk, age, years, national, patients, cholesterol, nhanes, measures, diabetes care


statement of the ADA and the European Association for the Study of Diabetes that emphasizes the need for individualization of treatment in diabetes (25). Quality of Care in People With Diabetes 41–13 AREAS IN NEED OF IMPROVEMENT Clearly, quality of care standards for diabetes care will continue to evolve as the evidence base grows and clinical recommendations change. Challenges in measuring quality include: (1) the applica­ tion of measures to populations that have not been well studied; (2) the ongoing difficulties of case-mix risk adjustment, data availability, quality, and uniformity; (3) addressing disparities in glycemic and cardiovascular risk factor control by age and race; and (4) the development of new or novel performance measures that are consistent with the goals of patients. One of the greatest technical challenges will be developing approaches that account for physicians’ efforts to individualize diabetes care, since this is at the core of high-quality clinical practice. How do stakeholders develop measures that reward physicians for the hard task of tailoring goals and treatments to patient health status and patient preferences? A striking deficiency in efforts to measure quality of diabetes care is the sole focus of current measures on the care of people with established diabetes. Body mass index, widely considered to be the major driver of the current diabetes epidemic, is not a conventional indicator of quality of care. Randomized clinical trials demon­ strated that intensive lifestyle modification is effective in preventing or delaying the onset of diabetes among those who are at high risk (impaired fasting glucose, impaired glucose tolerance, or A1c 5.7%– 6.4% [39–46 mmol/mol]) (104,105,106). Even modest weight loss (7%–10% decrease in weight) can result in improved glycemic control and prevention of diabetes among those who are at high risk (106). ADA recommendations for persons at high risk of diabetes include weight loss interventions, increasing physical activity, and consideration of metformin therapy (26), although no drugs have been cleared by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for clinical use in the prevention of diabetes. Despite the strong evidence base supporting weight loss, lifestyle interven­ tions, and metformin for the prevention of diabetes, measures related to prevention of diabetes are typically not part of the quality of care rubric. Quality indicators almost exclusively focus on treatment of persons with diagnosed diabetes. Quality measures that reflect primary prevention of diabetes and weight loss represent a novel area in need of consideration (60). Extending
