Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


ABSTRACT Gonadotropin hormone-releasing hormone (GnRH) is the key regulator of the reproductive axis. Its pulsatile secretion determines the pattern of secretion of the gonadotropins, follicle stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone, which then regulate both the endocrine function and gamete maturation in the gonads. Recent years have seen rapid developments in how GnRH secretion is regulated, with the discovery of the kisspeptin-neurokinin-dynorphin neuronal network in the hypothalamus. This mediates both positive and negative sex steroid feedback control of GnRH secretion, in conjunction with other neuropeptides and neurotransmitters. This chapter describes the main features of this regulatory system, including how its anatomical arrangements interact with functional control, and describes key differences between rodent and larger mammalian systems. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Since the discovery of Gonadotropin Releasing Hormone (GnRH), an extensive body of literature has established it as the pivotal central regulator of human reproduction. However, the GnRH neuronal network, per se lacks the cellular machinery to fully integrate developmental, environmental, endocrine, and metabolic factors that influence its secretion. For example, GnRH neurons do not express the principal estrogen receptor alpha (ER-alpha), which is required for sex-steroid mediated control of gonadotropin secretion ( 1 ). Intermediate signaling pathways must therefore exist to mediate gonadal steroid feedback. Current evidence, accumulated since the discovery of Kisspeptin-Neurokinin B-Dynorphin (KNDy) neuronal network in the last decade, suggests a pivotal role for this network in the regulation of pulsatile GnRH secretion by integrating nutrient, endocrine, and environmental signals, and thus the control of downstream hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis. The HPG axis anatomically comprises: 1. The hypothalamus (especially the infundibular nucleus, the human homologue of the arcuate nucleus) where the KNDy and GnRH-producing neurons are located. 2. The anterior pituitary, where Luteinizing Hormone (LH) and Follicle-Stimulating Hormone (FSH) are secreted by gonadotropes. 3. The gonads, responsible for the production of both sex steroids and gametes, under the influences of LH and FSH. As with other endocrine systems, positive and negative feedback regulate HPG axis ( 2 , 3 ). In this chapter, we have focused on human data. Where human data is limited, data from other species are leveraged. GONADOTROPIN RELEASING HORMONE (GnRH) – THE PRINCIPAL REGULATOR OF REPRODUCTION The Discovery of GnRH GnRH was isolated from porcine hypothalami and structurally identified as a decapeptide (pGlu-His-Trp-Ser-Tyr-Gly-Leu-Arg-Pro-Gly·NH2) five decades ago ( 4 - 6 ). This
