Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


PRINCIPAL REGULATOR OF REPRODUCTION The Discovery of GnRH GnRH was isolated from porcine hypothalami and structurally identified as a decapeptide (pGlu-His-Trp-Ser-Tyr-Gly-Leu-Arg-Pro-Gly·NH2) five decades ago ( 4 - 6 ). This decapeptide was shown to potently stimulate LH and FSH release from the pituitary in a number of mammalian species ( 6 , 7 ). Early literature referred to this peptide as the ‘Luteinizing Hormone-Releasing Hormone (LH-RH)’, but more recently, it is widely referenced as Gonadotropin Releasing Hormone (GnRH) -reflecting the stimulatory role on the secretion of both gonadotropins – i.e., LH and FSH ( 8 ). Diverse forms of GnRH and its receptor exist among vertebrates, with over twenty primary structures across species, suggesting that GnRH system developed early in the evolutionary sequence ( 9 , 10 ). The GnRH structure was first identified in mammals and is therefore referred to as GnRH I ( 9 , 11 ). Subsequently, another structurally different vertebrate GnRH sequence was first identified from chicken brain -this is now referred to as GnRH II (pGlu-His-Trp-Ser-His-Gly-Trp-Tyr-Pro-Gly-NH2) ( 10 , 12 ). A third form has also been described in fish - GnRH III ( 9 , 12 ). In mammals, hypophysiotropic functions are limited to GnRH I, therefore in the human context GnRH I is referred to as GnRH ( 13 ) and we will use this terminology for this review. Neuroanatomy of GnRH Neurons GnRH neurons originate in the medial olfactory placode during embryological development and migrate along the olfactory bulb to their final positions within the hypothalamus ( 14 , 15 ). A number of factors contributing to this GnRH neuron migratory process have been identified: anosmin-1 (the product of KAL gene) ( 16 ), neuropilins ( 17 ), leukemia inhibitory factor ( 18 ), fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 ( 19 ), fibroblast growth factor receptor 8 ( 20 ), polysialic form of neural adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) ( 21 ), among others ( 22 ). Defective GnRH migration leads to Kallmann syndrome, characterized by hypogonadotropic hypogonadism due to GnRH deficiency and anosmia ( 15 ). Mutations in prokineticin genes ( PROK1 and PROK2 ) lead to hypogonadotropic hypogonadism without anosmia, suggesting that factors other than suboptimal migration can also lead to functional deficiencies in GnRH ( 15 , 23 , 24 ). GnRH cell bodies are located in the medial preoptic area (POA) and in the arcuate/infundibular nucleus of the hypothalamus, forming
