Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


deficiencies in GnRH ( 15 , 23 , 24 ). GnRH cell bodies are located in the medial preoptic area (POA) and in the arcuate/infundibular nucleus of the hypothalamus, forming a neuronal network with projections to the median eminence ( 25 ). GnRH is secreted from the median eminence into the fenestrated capillaries of portal circulation, carried to the anterior pituitary ( 25 ). In humans, the number of GnRH neurons has been estimated to range between 1000 to 1500 ( 9 , 14 ). The co-location of GnRH neurons with other central regulators allows the GnRH network to be influenced by a range of neuroendocrine and metabolic inputs ( 26 ). GnRH Secretion and Pulsatility Two distinct modes of GnRH secretion have been described: pulsatile and surge modes ( 26 ). Pulsatile mode refers to episodic release of GnRH, with distinct pulses of GnRH secretion into the portal circulation with undetectable GnRH concentrations between pulses. The surge mode of GnRH secretion occurs in females, during the pre-ovulatory phase, in which the presence of GnRH in the portal circulation appears to be persistent ( 26 , 27 ). Direct pulsatile GnRH release was initially demonstrated in ovariectomized rhesus monkeys using serial samples of portal blood ( 28 ). Pulsatile pattern of GnRH secretion was demonstrated subsequently in humans through serial blood sampling during pituitary surgery ( 29 ). Abolishment of LH pulses by GnRH antisera ( 30 , 31 ) and its reestablishment with GnRH analogues ( 30 ) suggest that LH pulses are determined by the underlying GnRH pulsatility. The LH pulsatility was first detected during an attempt to validate a radioimmunoassay to measure serum LH in rhesus monkeys, where marked variations in LH levels was noticed ( 32 ). Further studies confirmed the pulsatile nature of LH secretion ( 33 - 35 ). In women, the frequency and amplitude of LH pulses were noted to be dependent on the menstrual cycle phase, with pulses every 1 to 2 hours during the early follicular phase eventually merging into a continuous mid-cycle surge, and decreased pulse frequency to every 4 hours during the luteal phase ( 36 ). In humans, LH pulse frequency is used as a surrogate of GnRH pulsatility, as ethical considerations and technical challenges preclude sampling of hypophyseal blood or cerebrospinal fluid to measure GnRH concentrations directly ( 37 , 38 ). The importance of GnRH pulsatility
