Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


pulsatility, as ethical considerations and technical challenges preclude sampling of hypophyseal blood or cerebrospinal fluid to measure GnRH concentrations directly ( 37 , 38 ). The importance of GnRH pulsatility on LH and FSH secretion was first demonstrated in rhesus monkeys, where endogenous GnRH secretion was abolished by hypothalamic radiofrequency. Pulsatile GnRH reinstated gonadotropin secretion in these animals, whereas continuous GnRH only elicited a transient response. Moreover, the switch from continuous to pulsatile GnRH administration allowed recovery of gonadotropin secretion ( 39 ). GnRH neurons coordinate their activity, but the precise mechanism of this remains unclear ( 27 , 40 ), and is the subject of continuing investigations. Episodic multi-unit electrical activity at medial basal hypothalami (MBH) is correlated with LH release, suggesting that ‘GnRH pulse generator’ is anatomically located at MBH – or closely linked to it neurohormonally ( 41 , 42 ). GnRH neurons show intrinsic electrical pulsatility. GnRH cell lines derived from mouse hypothalamic and fetal olfactory placode GnRH neurons both demonstrate intrinsic pulsatility in vitro ( 26 , 43 , 44 ). Functionally, the ‘GnRH pulse generator’ relies on complex relations between glutamatergic cells, GnRH and other neurons, and likely other elements are involved, of which the kisspeptin-neurokinin B-opioid pathway may have a pivotal intermediary role in the regulation of GnRH pulsatility ( 45 ). Differential Regulation of LH and FSH The stimulatory effects of GnRH on LH and FSH secretion are not identical ( 46 ). FSH secretion is more irregular than LH in both humans and sheep, which is essentially related to the pulsatility and different stimulatory effects of GnRH, but other factors also might be relevant, such as differences in LH and FSH storage (more scarce for the FSH), existence of different gonadotropes subpopulations, or diverse response times to GnRH ( 47 ). In ovariectomized sheep administered GnRH antisera, pulsatile secretion of LH was completely inhibited (undetectable LH levels within 24 hours), while the FSH concentration fell more slowly and remained detectable ( 30 ). It has been estimated that 93% of the GnRH pulses were associated with FSH pulses and, unlike LH, a constitutive secretion of FSH appears to exist ( 48 ). The frequency of GnRH input has been demonstrated to selectively regulate gonadotropin subunit gene transcription: rapid GnRH pulse rates increase α and LH-β and slow GnRH pulse frequency increases FSH-β gene transcription ( 49 - 51 ). Moreover, with
