Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


selectively regulate gonadotropin subunit gene transcription: rapid GnRH pulse rates increase α and LH-β and slow GnRH pulse frequency increases FSH-β gene transcription ( 49 - 51 ). Moreover, with progressive increases in GnRH frequency (from one pulse every 120 to 60 min, from 60 to 30 min, and from 30 to 15 min) in GnRH deficient men, mean LH rose concurrently with a decrease in LH pulse amplitude, while FSH remained unchanged ( 52 ). Biological and Clinical Relevance of GnRH Pulsatility Appropriate modulation of LH pulse frequency is essential for pubertal maturation and reproductive function. In infancy, LH pulsatile secretion is increased (often termed mini-puberty), likely reflecting pulsatile GnRH secretion, but soon becomes quiescent ( 53 ). This pre-pubertal suppression of HPG axis has been shown to occur in agonadal humans ( 54 ) and primates ( 55 ), suggesting that hypothalamo-hypophyseal factors play a role in post-natal quiescence of the reproductive axis, until puberty sets in. The onset of pubertal maturation is heralded by the development of a pattern of steady acceleration in LH pulsatility ( 56 ). In children, higher basal and GnRH stimulated LH concentrations are observed in early childhood (<5 years). This is subdued mid-childhood (5-11 years) and increase thereafter with pubertal development ( 54 , 57 ). Conceptually, an abnormal reactivation of GnRH pulse frequency is the central mechanism associated with precocious or delayed puberty ( 14 ). In women, the pattern of GnRH secretion is essential for the regulation of the menstrual cycle ( Figure 1 ) ( 58 , 59 ). LH pulse frequency is slow in the luteal phase, and increasingly speeds up during the follicular and the pre-ovulatory phases, presumably reflecting changes in GnRH pulse frequency ( 60 ). Abnormalities in GnRH - and hence LH pulse frequency - are associated with a number of reproductive endocrine disorders. In hypothalamic amenorrhea, a condition associated with anovulatory amenorrhea and hypoestrogenism, LH pulse frequency (and by inference GnRH) is lower than expected for the prevailing steroid profile and is comparable to luteal phase pulsatility ( 37 ). LH pulse frequency in hyperprolactinemic women is also lower than in healthy women, requiring dopaminergic agonist preparations, such as bromocriptine to regulate prolactin secretion and restore LH pulse frequency ( 38 ). In polycystic ovary syndrome LH pulse frequency and amplitude are higher throughout the menstrual cycle in comparison to that observed in healthy
