Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


and restore LH pulse frequency ( 38 ). In polycystic ovary syndrome LH pulse frequency and amplitude are higher throughout the menstrual cycle in comparison to that observed in healthy women, contributing to chronic anovulation ( 61 - 64 ). Figure 1. Hormonal oscillations through the menstrual cycle. In the early follicular phase of the menstrual cycle, the initial increase in FSH stimulates follicular recruitment and maturation. The consequent secretion of estradiol (E2) selectively inhibits FSH release (needed for selection of the dominant follicle) and maintains rapid GnRH pulsatility during the late follicular phase. The persistent rapid GnRH pulses increase LH, which further stimulates E2 secretion, culminating in positive E2 feedback to produce the mid-cycle LH surge. During the LH surge, GnRH levels appear to be consistently elevated and remain elevated as LH declines, suggesting that the frequency of GnRH pulse has become very rapid or continuous, which results in desensitization of LH secretion (possibly the mechanism to terminate the LH surge). After ovulation, luteinization of the ruptured follicle results in progesterone secretion which reduces the frequency of GnRH pulses. With the demise of corpus luteum, E2, progesterone and inhibin levels fall, and the GnRH pulse frequency increases, leading to follicular maturation in the next cycle. (Adapted from: Marshall JC, Dalkin AC, Haisenleder DJ, Paul SJ, Ortolano GA, Kelch RP. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone pulses: regulators of gonadotropin synthesis and ovulatory cycles. Recent Prog Horm Res. 1991;47:155-187). NEURONAL REGULATION OF GnRH SECRETION: THE KISSPEPTIN-NEUROKININ B-DYNORPHIN (KNDy) NEURONAL NETWORK Whilst the central role attributed to GnRH remains undisputed, its effective function requires input from other neuronal networks. For instance, the absence of estrogen receptor alpha (ER-alpha) expression on GnRH neurons suggests the need for an intermediate signaling pathway to mediate gonadal steroid feedback ( 1 ). The discovery of kisspeptin signaling in neuroendocrine regulation of human reproduction revolutionized the current understanding of the HPG axis. Kisspeptin signaling pathway is increasingly recognized as essential for normal puberty, gonadotropin secretion, and regulation of reproduction ( 65 - 67 ). Other relevant kisspeptin roles have been identified such as regulation of sexual and social behavior, emotional brain processing, mood, audition, olfaction, metabolism, body composition, cardiac function, among others ( 68 - 74 ). Discovery of KNDy Neuronal Network KiSS1, the gene encoding kisspeptins, was first described in 1996 as a suppressor of metastasis in human malignant melanoma ( 75 , 76 ). This gene was discovered
