Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


the mechanism by which these abnormal kisspeptins induce precocious puberty ( 90 ). Recently in an Asian cohort, potentially regulatory polymorphisms, as rs5780218 and rs12998, in KiSS1 gene were significantly associated to genetic susceptibility to central precocious puberty in Chinese girls by single-locus analysis ( 91 ). Nevertheless, these findings are inconsistently reported in literature and require additional validation in functional studies. A role for neurokinin B in the hypothalamic regulation was also demonstrated when genetic studies in patients from consanguineous families with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism were found to have missense mutations in TAC3 (encodes neurokinin B) and TACR3 (encodes neurokinin B receptor) ( 92 ). Other cases have been reported since ( 93 - 96 ). There is also long-standing evidence for the role of opioid systems in reproduction. In 1980, Wilkes reported the localization of β endorphin in the human hypothalamus ( 97 ). Studies involving the administration of naloxone and naltrexone (opioid antagonists) to humans showed stimulatory effects on LH secretion ( 98 , 99 ), and other studies supported the notion that endogenous opioids play a role in the control of HPG axis ( 100 - 104 ). In 2007, it was demonstrated that dynorphin and kisspeptin are co-localized along with neurokinin B in the same hypothalamic neuronal population in sheep, therefore termed KNDy (Kisspeptin-Neurokinin B-Dynorphin) neurons, highlighting the possible interconnection between these neuropeptides in the control of GnRH and gonadotropin secretion ( 105 - 107 ). The co-localization of kisspeptin, neurokinin B and dynorphin has also been demonstrated in humans ( 108 ). Kisspeptin neurons have also other important neuroanatomical relationships, such as with neuronal nitric oxide synthase neurons as demonstrated in prepubertal female sheep ( 109 ), or with somatostatin neurons in the rat hypothalamus ( 110 ). Neuroanatomy of KNDy Neuronal Network The location of kisspeptin neurons is different between rodents and human species. In humans, kisspeptin neurons are distributed in the rostral Pre-optic Area (POA) and in the infundibular nucleus in the hypothalamus ( Figure 2 ) ( 108 , 111 ). In both male and female autopsy samples, the majority of kisspeptin cell bodies are identified in the infundibular nucleus, and a second dense population of kisspeptin neurons in the rostral POA ( 108 ). The infundibular nucleus (arcuate nucleus in non-human species) is similar across species, but the rostral region is more species specific ( 108 , 112 , 113 ).
