Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


( 108 ). The infundibular nucleus (arcuate nucleus in non-human species) is similar across species, but the rostral region is more species specific ( 108 , 112 , 113 ). In rodents, the rostral population is located in the anteroventral periventricular nucleus (AVPV) and the periventricular nucleus (PeN), the continuum of this region named as the rostral periventricular region of the third ventricle (RP3V) ( 112 , 114 ). Humans and ruminants lack this well-defined RP3V population of kisspeptin neurons, which are more scattered within the preoptic region ( 113 , 115 ). Kisspeptin axons form dense plexuses in the human infundibular stalk, where the secretion of GnRH occurs ( 108 ). Axo-somatic, axo-dendritic, and axo-axonal contacts between kisspeptin and GnRH axons were demonstrated at this level, showing that kisspeptin and GnRH networks are in close proximity ( 108 , 116 ). Moreover, GnRH neurons express Kiss1r mRNA, reinforcing the notion of kisspeptin involvement in GnRH secretion ( 117 - 119 ). Figure 2. Neuroanatomy of kisspeptin-GnRH pathway and the control of HPG axis in humans and rodents. Kisspeptin signals directly to GnRH neurons, which express KISS1R. The location of kisspeptin neurons within the hypothalamus is species specific, residing within the anteroventral periventricular nucleus (AVPV) and the arcuate nucleus in rodents, and within the preoptic area (POA) and the infundibular nucleus in humans. Kisspeptin neurons in the infundibular nucleus (humans)/arcuate nucleus (rodents) co-express neurokinin B and dynorphin (KNDy neurons), which autosynaptically regulate kisspeptin secretion (via neurokinin B receptor and kappa opioid peptide receptor). In humans, infundibular KNDy neurons relay negative (red) and positive (green) feedback, whereas in rodents the negative and positive steroid feedback are mediated via arcuate nucleus and AVPV respectively. The role of human POA kisspeptin neurons in sex steroid feedback is not yet clear. (Adapted from: Skorupskaite K, George JT, Anderson RA. The kisspeptin-GnRH pathway in human reproductive health and disease. Human Reproduction Update. 2014;20:485-500). Three-quarters of kisspeptin-immunoreactive cells in the human infundibular nucleus of the hypothalamus co-express neurokinin B and dynorphin (KNDy neurons) ( 108 , 120 ). KNDy neurons in rodents and ruminants are localized in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus. However, neurokinin B and dynorphin are absent from kisspeptin neurons in the hypothalamic POA ( Figure 2 ) ( 67 , 115 ). This differential expression of neuropeptides may reflect distinct functions of these two kisspeptin populations with kisspeptin neurons in the AVPV
