Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


POA ( Figure 2 ) ( 67 , 115 ). This differential expression of neuropeptides may reflect distinct functions of these two kisspeptin populations with kisspeptin neurons in the AVPV acting as LH surge generators, while those in the ARC (including KNDy neurons) acting as LH pulse generators. Significant kisspeptin expression was also demonstrated in central extra-hypothalamic sites, including in limbic and paralimbic brain regions, such as medial amygdala, cingulate, globus pallidus, hippocampus, putamen and thalamus, key areas of neurobiological control of sexual and emotional behaviors (reviewed in detail in ( 121 )), as well as peripherally in organs like ovary, testis, uterus and placenta where the kisspeptin system may also play a part in reproduction function ( 122 , 123 ). Apart from reproductive and central kisspeptin expression, the kisspeptin signaling system has been demonstrated in several peripheral tissues, namely, in pancreas (involved in glucose-stimulated insulin secretion); in endothelial cells of different vascular beds as coronary artery, aorta and umbilical vein (triggering vasoconstriction); in the kidney, namely, in tubular cells, collecting duct cells and vascular smooth muscle cells (involved in function and renal morphogenesis); as well as in bone, fat and liver tissue ( 78 , 124 , 125 ). Interactions Between Kisspeptin, Neurokinin B and Dynorphin KDNy neurons act synergistically to induce coordinated and pulsatile GnRH secretion by regulating the neuroactivity of other KDNy cells. This is supported by the existence of neurokinin B and kappa opioid peptide receptors (receptor for dynorphin) within the KNDy cells, but not kisspeptin receptors, which are predominantly expressed on GnRH neurons ( 107 , 120 , 126 ). Neuron-neuron and neuron-glia communications via gap junctions contribute for the synchronized activities among KNDy neurons ( 127 ). Neurokinins (A and B) are members of the tachykinin family of peptides, which stimulate three related GPCRs (encoded by TACR1, TACR2 and TACR3 ) ( 128 ) This family also contains substance P, neuropeptide K, neuropeptide γ, hemokinin-1, and more recently endokinins. Neurokinin B acts predominantly on TACR3 . Neurokinin B increases the membrane potential of KNDy neurons, leading to an increase in KNDy neuron pulsatile activity which, in turn, will promote the secretion of kisspeptin leading, ultimately, to GnRH secretion ( 67 , 129 , 130 ). Neurokinin B signaling regulates GnRH/LH secretion in healthy women, and it is crucial for the mediation of the estrogenic positive and negative feedback on LH secretion ( 131
