Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


130 ). Neurokinin B signaling regulates GnRH/LH secretion in healthy women, and it is crucial for the mediation of the estrogenic positive and negative feedback on LH secretion ( 131 - 133 ). There is rapidly increasing interest in the therapeutic value of neurokinin antagonists in several indications in reproductive health, recently reviewed in ( 134 ). In women with polycystic ovary syndrome, the relationship between kisspeptin and gonadotropin levels has been widely explored in those with anovulatory cycles ( 135 - 138 ). Most studies have shown higher serum levels of kisspeptin and LH when the oligomenorrhea phenotype is present, despite the high heterogeneity observed. In this context, potential treatments targeting neuroendocrine dysfunction emerged. The administration of neurokinin 3 receptor antagonists markedly reduced serum LH concentration and pulse frequency, as well as serum testosterone ( 139 - 141 ). A recent study confirmed a complex crosstalk between neurokinin B and kisspeptin pathways in the regulation of GnRH secretion in polycystic ovary syndrome. In this study, kisspeptin-10 infusion given to women with polycystic ovary syndrome increased LH secretion with a direct relationship to estradiol exposure. Neurokinin 3 receptor antagonism reduced LH secretion and pulsatility, and whilst LH response to kisspeptin-10 was preserved, its relationship with circulating estradiol was not. More interestingly, although kisspeptin-10 increased LH pulse frequency, changes in other parameters of LH secretory pattern were prevented when co-administered with neurokinin 3 receptor antagonists ( 141 ). In postmenopausal women, seven day treatment with neurokinin 3 receptor antagonist decreased LH secretion, but not FSH secretion, as well as lead to a remarkable reduction in hot flushes ( 142 ). Neurokinin 3 receptor antagonism efficiency in treating menopausal hot flushes has been also demonstrated in other clinical trials ( 143 , 144 ). Fezolinetant administrated in a single daily dose regimen (30 or 45mg/daily) for treatment of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms reduced these symptoms by over 50% from baseline within the first week and persistently during the 52-week treatment period, and is now approved for the treatment of menopausal vasomotor symptoms ( 145 - 148 ). A second comparable drug, elinzanetant, which differs in its pharmacology in that it is an antagonist at the NK1 as well as NK3 receptor, has also been recently demonstrated to reduce the severity and frequency of moderate-to-severe vasomotor symptoms and also to improve sleep quality and menopause-related quality of life ( 149 ). The
