Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


has also been recently demonstrated to reduce the severity and frequency of moderate-to-severe vasomotor symptoms and also to improve sleep quality and menopause-related quality of life ( 149 ). The importance of NK1 receptor antagonism in these effects is unclear. In healthy men, neurokinin B signaling display a central role for the reproductive function, and this is functionally upstream of kisspeptin-mediated GnRH secretion: LH, FSH and testosterone secretion decreased during the administration of a neurokinin 3 receptor antagonist, while kisspeptin-10 administration restored LH secretion to the same degree before and during neurokinin 3 receptor antagonist treatment ( 150 ). An increase in the expression of Kiss1 in the hypothalamic neurons was observed following senktide (agonist of neurokinin B) administration ( 151 ), and its stimulatory effects were abolished in Gpr54 knock-out male ( 152 ). In ovariectomized goats, neurokinin B stimulated LH secretion through electrical multi-unit activity corresponded to LH secretion, suggesting a hypothalamic site for this GnRH pulse generation ( 153 ). GnRH antagonists abolished the stimulatory effect of neurokinin B, demonstrating its site of action to be functionally higher than the GnRH receptor ( 154 , 155 ). Dynorphins act as the decelerator that inhibits KNDy neurons pulsatility. Studies involving the administration of opioid antagonists to humans have shown stimulatory effects on LH secretion in late follicular and mid-luteal phase ( 98 , 99 ), and together with other studies ( 100 - 104 ), highlight the inhibitory input by dynorphins on kisspeptin signalling, and consequently on GnRH/gonadotropin secretion. Through the stimulatory effects of neurokinin B and kisspeptin, and the inhibitory action of dynorphin, these neuropeptides coordinate pulsatile GnRH and LH secretion ( Figure 2 ) ( 156 , 157 ). Kisspeptin-mediated GnRH secretion is sex steroid dependent. Estrogen and progesterone directly modulate kisspeptin activity though the sex-steroid receptors expressed on kisspeptin neurons at both AVPV and the arcuate nucleus ( 158 - 160 ). Furthermore, two distinct populations of kisspeptin neurons, the infundibular/arcuate region of which interacts with neurokinin B and dynorphin, appear to mediate distinct sex-steroid pathways (discussed in more detail in sections 4.1-4.4). Briefly, in humans, KNDy neurons in the infundibular nucleus alone are involved in negative and positive sex-steroid feedback, whereas in rodents positive sex-steroid feedback seems to be mediated via kisspeptin neurons in the AVPV region and negative sex-steroid feedback via the arcuate KNDy neurons ( Figure 2 ) ( 67 , 111
