Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


sex-steroid feedback seems to be mediated via kisspeptin neurons in the AVPV region and negative sex-steroid feedback via the arcuate KNDy neurons ( Figure 2 ) ( 67 , 111 , 160 , 161 ). Stimulatory Effect of Kisspeptin on GnRH and Gonadotropin Secretion Kisspeptin is a potent stimulator of the HPG axis – and in fact, it is the most potent GnRH secretagogue currently known. Kisspeptin signals directly to the hypothalamic GnRH neurons via kisspeptin receptor to release GnRH into the portal circulation, which in turn stimulates the anterior pituitary gonadotropes to produce LH and FSH ( 129 , 162 ). The stimulatory effects of kisspeptin on LH secretion have been documented in animal models ( 163 - 166 ). This is consistent with human studies, where kisspeptin increases both LH and FSH secretion with the preferential stimulatory effect on the former ( 67 , 167 - 177 ). Kissppetin-54 was first administered in healthy men as an intravenous infusion with dose-dependent rise in LH secretion ( 169 ). Since then kisspeptin was administered in different isoforms (kisspeptin-54 and kisspeptin-10), different routes (subcutaneous and intravenous), different types of exposure (continuous and bolus), to healthy men and women and in endocrine disease models with low gonadotropin output, all showing stimulatory effect of kisspeptin on LH secretion (fully reviewed in ( 67 )). Pulsatile GnRH secretion correlates with LH pulsatility, prompting investigation of the effect of kisspeptin on regulating LH pulse frequency. LH pulse frequency and amplitude were increased following intravenous infusion of kisspeptin-10 in healthy men ( 172 ), and subcutaneous bolus of kisspeptin-54 in healthy women ( 174 ). The hypothalamic response to kisspeptin-54 and the pituitary response to GnRH are preserved in healthy older men ( 178 ). Kisspeptin also stimulates LH pulse frequency in reproductive endocrine disorders of low LH pulsatility, including hypothalamic amenorrhea, defects in the neurokinin B pathway and hypogonadal men with diabetes ( 96 , 179 , 180 ). Indeed, kisspeptin-54 and kisspeptin-10, as well as kisspeptin agonists like MVT-602 (previously known as TAK-448) are able to stimulate physiological reproductive hormone secretion in individuals with functional hypogonadism related to deficient GnRH secretion, such as in hypothalamic amenorrhea or polycystic ovary syndrome ( 181 , 182 ). In addition, recent findings have explored further the effects of MVT-602. LH concentration increased in a dose-dependent manner, resembling the amplitude and duration found in the physiological mid-cycle
