Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


182 ). In addition, recent findings have explored further the effects of MVT-602. LH concentration increased in a dose-dependent manner, resembling the amplitude and duration found in the physiological mid-cycle LH surge, proving to be safe and well tolerated throughout the dose range (0.3 – 3.0 mg) ( 183 ). This approach to mimicking the physiological response during oocyte maturation and ovulation may have clinical utility for women during medically assisted reproduction. Kisspeptin regulates GnRH and subsequently gonadotropin secretion through Kiss1r , as suggested by Messager who demonstrated no detectable LH levels in response to kisspeptin in Kiss1r knockout mice ( 119 ). The prevention of the stimulatory effect of kisspeptin on LH secretion by GnRH antagonists indicate that kisspeptin action is GnRH-mediated ( 118 , 164 , 184 - 186 ). This is further supported by the observation that kisspeptin cause depolarization of GnRH neurons ( 117 ) and stimulate GnRH release from hypothalamic explants ( 187 , 188 ). The expression of GnRH mRNA is upregulated in GnRH neurons following kisspeptin administration ( 189 ). Moreover, in patients with impaired functional capacity of GnRH neurons (idiopathic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism), the same dose of kisspeptin failed to induce LH response seen in healthy men and women ( 190 ). In female rats, ablation of KNDy neurons resulted in hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, confirming its role in the maintenance of normal LH levels and to estrous cyclicity ( 191 ). Some investigators have demonstrated a direct stimulatory effect of kisspeptin on gonadotropes, but this direct stimulatory action of kisspeptin on gonadotropes remains debatable ( 192 - 196 ). Kiss1 and Kiss1r gene expression has been shown in gonadotropes, and gonadotropin secretion from the pituitary explants was observed following exposure to kisspeptin ( 78 , 192 - 195 ). Moreover, LHβ and FSHβ gene expression was upregulated in the primary pituitary cells treated with kisspeptin. Whilst kisspeptin can directly regulate gonadotropins at the transcriptional level, it appears to be less relevant than the GnRH-mediated action ( 67 , 195 , 196 ). Desensitization Effect of Chronic or Continuous Exposure to Kisspeptin Continuous administration of GnRH desensitizes the HPG axis by downregulation of GnRH receptors and desensitization of gonadotropes, following an initial stimulatory effect ( 39 ). It is therefore important to ascertain the effects of continuous exposure to kisspeptin on the HPG axis. Efforts have been made to assess the impact of continuous infusions
