Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


39 ). It is therefore important to ascertain the effects of continuous exposure to kisspeptin on the HPG axis. Efforts have been made to assess the impact of continuous infusions of kisspeptin in a number of animal experiments ( 119 , 197 - 200 ). In adult rats, continuous administration of kisspeptin-54 increased serum LH and free testosterone on day one, but this stimulatory effect was lost after 2 days, indicative of kisspeptin receptor desensitization ( 200 ). In rhesus monkeys, the continuous administration of kisspeptin-10 resulted in suppression of LH secretion, indicating desensitization of kisspeptin receptor ( 198 ). The kisspeptin receptor has been shown to desensitize in vitro ( 197 ). In sheep, infusion of kisspeptin-10 resulted in acute increase in serum LH levels, which declined by the end of 4-hour infusion, while GnRH remained elevated following the discontinuation of kisspeptin-10 administration. This suggests that desensitization to GnRH could be occurring at the level of pituitary gonadotropes ( 119 ). Consistent with animal studies, Jayasena et al. demonstrated that in women with hypothalamic amenorrhea an initial increase in LH and FSH secretion was not sustained following twice daily subcutaneous kisspeptin-54 administration for two weeks ( 176 ). Other studies in humans employing continuous or repeated kisspeptin administration provide conflicting evidence for kisspeptin-mediated desensitization and appear to be dose-related ( 172 , 180 ). High doses of kisspeptin may induce desensitization, but this is not apparent at lower doses ( 67 ). Sustained LH secretion and increased LH pulsatility was demonstrated with lower dose of kisspeptin-54 (0.01-1nmol/kg/h) infusion for 8 hours in women with hypothalamic amenorrhea ( 180 ) and kisspeptin-10 (3.1 nmol/kg/h) infusion for 22.5 hours in healthy men ( 172 ). In contrast, LH secretion was not maintained in three healthy men during the 24 hour infusion of kisspeptin-10 at 9.2 nmol/kg/h (the highest dose used in humans so far), although serum LH did not fall to the castrate levels and remained well above baseline at end of infusion ( 201 ). Kisspeptin receptor agonist analogues, TAK-488 and TAK-683, induce desensitization when administered to healthy men ( 202 , 203 ). However, the ability of natural kisspeptin fragments to downregulate the HPG axis in humans remains to be established, and is to date complicated by differences in study protocols, in terms of isoform of kisspeptin used, duration (8 hours-2 weeks), mode and route of kisspeptin administration, lower
