Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


be established, and is to date complicated by differences in study protocols, in terms of isoform of kisspeptin used, duration (8 hours-2 weeks), mode and route of kisspeptin administration, lower doses of kisspeptin in human studies compared to animal, and the endocrine profile of the study participants (men versus women versus hypothalamic amenorrhea). Sexual Dimorphism in Kisspeptin Signaling The response to kisspeptin is different in men and women. In men, kisspeptin potently stimulates the release of LH, but in women the effect of kisspeptin is variable and dependent on the phase of menstrual cycle ( 67 ). Whilst men respond to the modest doses of kisspeptin, LH response to kisspeptin in healthy women is minimal and inconsistent in the early follicular phase but greatest in the pre-ovulatory phase of the menstrual cycle ( 169 - 171 , 177 ). This indicates that in addition to the fluctuations in sex-steroid milieu, other mechanisms, such as changes in pituitary sensitivity to GnRH or GnRH network responsiveness to kisspeptin regulate the sensitivity to kisspeptin throughout the menstrual cycle ( 67 , 126 , 204 ). Not only there is sexual dimorphism in gonadotropin response to kisspeptin, but there are also anatomical differences. Female hypothalami have significantly more kisspeptin fibers and kisspeptin cell bodies than men ( 173 ). Only a few kisspeptin cell bodies are present in the male infundibular nucleus and none in the rostral periventricular nucleus, which is on contrary to the female hypothalami with abundant kisspeptin network in both of these hypothalamic nuclei ( 108 ). These sex differences in kisspeptin neurons appear to be established early during perinatal development through the action of sex steroids ( 126 , 205 ). These marked functional and anatomical differences may reflect sexually dimorphic roles of kisspeptin between both sexes, influencing their reproductive functions, namely the sex steroid feedback in GnRH and gonadotropin secretion ( 67 ). Kisspeptin, GnRH and Puberty Kisspeptin is crucial for normal pubertal development, the discovery of which formed the basis for the obligate role of kisspeptin signaling in the control of reproductive function ( 206 ). More than a decade ago two independent groups identified ‘inactivating’ mutations in KISS1R in patients with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism presenting with pubertal delay ( 85 , 86 ). Recently, a male patient with a biallelic loss-of-function KISS1R mutation was described who had undergone a normal and timely puberty, although as a child he
