Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


( 85 , 86 ). Recently, a male patient with a biallelic loss-of-function KISS1R mutation was described who had undergone a normal and timely puberty, although as a child he had presented with microphallus and bilateral cryptorchidism. This suggests different levels of dependence of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis on kisspeptin signaling during the reproductive life span, with the mini-puberty of infancy appearing more dependent on the kisspeptin system than is adolescent puberty ( 207 ). On the other hand, activating mutations in KISS1R and KISS1 were then described in children with central precocious puberty ( 89 , 90 ). Hypothalamic expression of Kiss1 and Kiss1R mRNA is upregulated at puberty ( 117 , 165 , 208 ), and the percentage of GnRH neurons depolarizing in response to kisspeptin increases from juvenile (25%) to pubertal (50%) and to adult mice (>90%) ( 117 ), suggesting that GnRH neurons may acquire sensitivity to kisspeptin across puberty. In monkeys, kisspeptin-54 secretion and pulsatility increased at the onset of puberty ( 209 ). Moreover, the exogenous administration of kisspeptin resulted in earlier puberty in rats and monkeys ( 208 , 210 ), whereas kisspeptin antagonists delayed puberty in rats ( 186 ) and inhibited GnRH release in pubertal monkeys ( 211 ). In other study, daily injections of a synthetic kisspeptin analogue have been shown to significantly advance puberty in prepubertal female mice ( 212 ). GnRH neuron-specific Kiss1r knockout mouse showed a delay in pubertal onset, abnormal estrous cyclicity in female and abnormal external genitalia in male (microphallus, decreased anogenital distance associated with failure of preputial gland separation) ( 213 ). Exogenous kisspeptin stimulated GnRH-induced LH secretion in patients with hypogonadotropism resulted in a spontaneous and permanent activation of their hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, whereas patients with idiopathic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and no spontaneous LH pulsatility did not respond to kisspeptin, suggesting that the reversal of hypogonadism, sexual maturation and puberty may well be associated with the acquisition of kisspeptin responsiveness which in turn signals the emergence of reproductive endocrine activity ( 214 ). A recent study, 15 children with delayed puberty were administered intravenous kisspeptin and displayed divergent responses, with seven subjects having no response to kisspeptin, whereas others having either robust response (comparable to those of adults) or intermediate responses as perceived in one case ( 215 ). GnRH release during puberty appears to require a cooperative mechanism between the kisspeptin/NKB networks in close interaction
