Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


of adults) or intermediate responses as perceived in one case ( 215 ). GnRH release during puberty appears to require a cooperative mechanism between the kisspeptin/NKB networks in close interaction with different neuropeptides, as substance P, NKA, RFRP-3 and alpha-MSH, working as partners to regulate puberty timing influenced, naturally, by a combination of genetic, environmental, and gene-environment interactions ( 216 ). Agonists and antagonists of kisspeptin and NKB were administered into the stalk-median eminence (region with high concentration of GnRH, kisspeptin and NKB neuroterminal fibers), and it was found that both kisspeptin-10 and the NK3R agonist senktide stimulated GnRH release in a dose-responsive manner in prepubertal and pubertal monkeys. However, senktide-induced GnRH release was blocked in the presence of a KISS1R antagonist and the kisspeptin-induced GnRH release was blocked in the presence of NK3R antagonist in pubertal monkeys, leading to the notion that a reciprocal signaling mechanism between kisspeptin and NKB exists and is possibly necessary for a normal puberty ( 217 ). These data together emphasizes that disrupted kisspeptin-GPR54-NKB signaling leads to hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, reinforcing the critical role of kisspeptin in puberty. REGULATION OF GnRH AND GONADOTROPIN SECRETION Development and maintenance of normal reproductive function requires a coordinated interplay between neuroendocrine, metabolic, and environmental factors. The GnRH-gonadotropin system plays a central role in the regulation of reproduction by integrating different signals and factors ( Figure 3 ) ( 126 , 204 ). Figure 3. Neuroendocrine regulation of GnRH/gonadotropin secretion. The GnRH-gonadotropin system plays a central role in the regulation of reproduction by integrating different neuroendocrine, metabolic and environmental signals/factors. The KNDy signaling has a key role in this process by integrating some of these signals and by regulating GnRH neurons. Overview of Sex Steroid Feedback A crucial role for sex steroids in the regulation of GnRH neurons and/or gonadotropes in humans was initially proposed as serial blood sampling and gonadotropin assays in women through phases of menstrual cycle showed an uneven distribution, with a clear mid-cycle surge in LH and FSH. Two mechanisms were proposed to mediate this effect: first, GnRH secretion is altered in response to the steroid milieu; second, sensitivity of the gonadotropes to a GnRH input is sex-steroid dependent, although the exact mechanism remains controversial due to inter-species variation ( 218 ). Hypothalamic secretion of GnRH increases during proesterus in rats ( 219 ), sheep ( 220 ), and non-human primates ( 221 ). Pulsatile once
