Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


to inter-species variation ( 218 ). Hypothalamic secretion of GnRH increases during proesterus in rats ( 219 ), sheep ( 220 ), and non-human primates ( 221 ). Pulsatile once hourly administration of exogenous GnRH restored ovulation in Rhesus monkeys with hypothalamic lesions which abolished GnRH secretion, suggesting that it was the ‘ebb and flow’ of ovarian estrogen feedback acting directly on the pituitary which triggered an LH surge ( 222 ). In humans, endogenous GnRH secretion is potentially diminished during the pre-ovulatory LH surge and the suppression of gonadotropin secretion is greater with lower doses of a GnRH receptor antagonist during the mid-cycle surge in comparison to the other phases of the menstrual cycle ( 223 ). This suggests that pituitary gonadotrope sensitivity to GnRH is enhanced during the mid-cycle surge. Administration of exogenous estradiol or testosterone in men with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism receiving pulsatile GnRH therapy, decreased gonadotropin concentrations, demonstrating inhibitory effects of sex-steroids at the level of pituitary ( 224 ). A direct effect of estrogen on gonadotropes is further demonstrated by the inhibition of LH secretion from rat pituitary gonadotropes in vitro ( 225 ). Literature to date suggests that there is dual-site sex-steroid feedback in the regulation of gonadotropin secretion, occurring at the level of both pituitary and hypothalamus ( 226 - 231 ). Estrogen Feedback Patterns of GnRH and LH secretion across the menstrual cycle are modulated by estradiol feedback. A biphasic effect of estradiol on gonadotropin secretion has long been established and it is essential for normal menstrual cycle, with an initial negative feedback (greater suppression of FSH) and a subsequent positive feedback (more prominent for LH) ( 32 ). However, the basis for estrogen feedback has been unclear for a long time. GnRH neurons do not express estrogen receptor alpha (ER-alpha) ( 232 , 233 ), and therefore a mediator between gonads and hypothalamus was missed. Recent evidence suggests that kisspeptin and neurokinin B ( 132 ) appears to be providing this “missing link” as a key regulator of both negative and positive estrogen feedback ( 67 , 126 ). KNDy neurons in the infundibular nucleus in humans and the arcuate nucleus in other mammals mediate negative estrogen feedback. Estrogen suppresses kisspeptin and neurokinin B release from KNDy neurons, which reduce their stimulatory input to GnRH neurons. Simultaneously, there is a relative deficiency in dynorphin signaling as part of this negative feedback, releasing
