Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


neurokinin B release from KNDy neurons, which reduce their stimulatory input to GnRH neurons. Simultaneously, there is a relative deficiency in dynorphin signaling as part of this negative feedback, releasing the inhibitory action on kisspeptin signaling ( Figure 2 ) ( 67 ). Immunohistochemical staining of the postmenopausal women hypothalami showed up-regulated expression of KISS1 mRNA and hypertrophy of kisspeptin neurons in the infundibular nucleus when compared to the premenopausal women ( 111 ). These hypertrophied kisspeptin neurons co-localized with ER-alpha, had increased expression of neurokinin B and decreased levels of prodynorphin mRNA ( 234 - 236 ). The above evidence for the involvement of the infundibular KNDy system in mediating negative estrogen feedback in humans is consistent with animal studies. Kisspeptin neurons in the arcuate nucleus show frequent co-localization with ER-alpha ( 160 , 237 ). In ovariectomized animals, the expression of Kiss1 and neurokinin B mRNA was up-regulated but prodynorphin mRNA reduced in the arcuate nucleus (equivalent to the infundibular nucleus in humans), and this was reversed by estrogen replacement ( 102 , 115 , 120 , 238 - 242 ). Postmenopausal women are resistant to the stimulatory effect of kisspeptin on LH secretion ( 142 , 243 ), but postmenopausal women receiving estradiol replacement therapy are only resistant to kisspeptin initially and then they do demonstrate a remarkable increase in LH pulse amplitude with direct correlation to the circulating levels of estradiol and duration of kisspeptin administration ( 243 ). However, neurokinin B regulates gonadotropin secretion in postmenopausal women, and antagonizing the neurokinin 3 receptor modestly decreases LH secretion in this context ( 142 ). Interestingly, the use of neurokinin 3 receptor antagonists has been shown to effectively reduce the frequency and severity of menopause-related vasomotor symptoms owing to their inhibitory effect in the hypothalamic thermoregulatory center, and thus presenting a potential non-hormonal treatment option for menopausal women ( 144 , 148 , 149 ). Negative estrogen feedback switches to positive feedback in the late follicular phase of menstrual cycle, in order to induce the pre-ovulatory LH surge. Ovarian estradiol seems to be the predominant signal to trigger this switch, via ER-alpha, stimulating RP3V kisspeptin neurons while it inhibits arcuate kisspeptin neurons. Recent evidence supports the role of kisspeptin in generating the LH surge: during an assisted conception cycle, kisspeptin-54, used instead of a routinely administered human chorionic gonadotropin, induced an LH surge, and oocyte maturation, with
