Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


of kisspeptin in generating the LH surge: during an assisted conception cycle, kisspeptin-54, used instead of a routinely administered human chorionic gonadotropin, induced an LH surge, and oocyte maturation, with a subsequent live term birth ( 241 ). Repeated twice-daily administration of kisspeptin-54 shortened the menstrual cycle, suggesting that the onset of LH surge was advanced ( 173 ). This is further supported by antagonistic studies in animal models, where the administration of kisspeptin antiserum or antagonists blunt/prevent LH peak, whilst kisspeptin advances LH surge ( 211 , 244 , 245 ). However, kisspeptin-mediated positive estrogen feedback has marked anatomical variations between humans and other species. In rodents, positive estrogen feedback is mediated via the AVPV nucleus, which is absent in humans, other primates and sheep ( Figure 2 ). AVPV neurons are sexually dimorphic, with higher density of ER-alpha described in females and AVPV kisspeptin neurons, as a subset of AVPV neurons, share this pattern ( 246 ). There seems to be functional specialization, since only a subset of AVPV kisspeptin neurons (~1/3) are synaptically connected to GnRH cell bodies, but of these, nearly all express estrogen sensitivity and most co-express tyrosine hydroxylase to facilitate positive feedback ( 247 ). The expression of Kiss1 mRNA in the AVPV nucleus is low following an ovariectomy but is dramatically increased with estrogen treatment and at the time of LH surge ( 160 , 161 ). In sheep, positive estrogen feedback is mediated though the arcuate nucleus, where the expression of Kiss1 mRNA is the greatest at the pre-ovulatory LH surge ( 195 ). There are no studies looking at the anatomical region of estrogen mediating positive feedback in humans. Although there does not appear to be two distinct anatomical populations of kisspeptin neurons to relay negative and positive sex-steroid feedback in humans, it is possible that separate signaling pathways exists to mediate gonadal steroid feedback. Whilst it is clear that kisspeptin is involved in estrogen-induced mid-cycle gonadotropin surge, the role of KNDy neurons in positive estrogen feedback is less obvious. In sheep, the expression of neurokinin B mRNA was increased during the LH surge, and neurokinin B receptor agonist senktide induced LH secretion mimicking its mid-cycle surge ( 248 , 249 ). However, this has not been reproduced in other species, including humans ( 180 ). In summary, KNDy neurons mediate negative estrogen feedback in the infundibular nucleus in humans and
