Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


). However, this has not been reproduced in other species, including humans ( 180 ). In summary, KNDy neurons mediate negative estrogen feedback in the infundibular nucleus in humans and the arcuate nucleus in other species. Positive estrogen feedback is mediated via kisspeptin neurons, which show marked inter-species anatomical variation. In addition to the gonads, the brain is one of the major organs producing estradiol, and recently a number of studies demonstrated that estradiol is synthesized and released in the hypothalamus (i.e. neuroestradiol) contributing to the regulation of GnRH release, particularly regarding its positive feedback effect during the preovulatory GnRH/LH surge ( 250 ). Progesterone Feedback Progesterone reduces LH pulse frequency in healthy women. LH secretory pattern in women exposed to exogenous progesterone was comparable to LH profile observed in the mid-luteal phase, demonstrating that progesterone plays a central role in the luteal phase of menstrual cycle ( 251 ). These inhibitory effects of progesterone on gonadotropin secretion are mediated by the progesterone receptor (PR) ( 252 ). The suppressive effect of progesterone on LH secretion was diminished in the context of estrogen deficiency, while co-administration of estradiol restored it ( 252 ), suggesting an interplay between these sex steroids. However, the presence of PR on only a small subset of GnRH neurons ( 253 - 255 ) led to the notion that intermediaries are involved in mediating inhibitory progesterone signal to GnRH neurons. There is evidence that KNDy neurons play a role in mediating progesterone feedback on GnRH through dynorphin signaling ( Figure 2 ) ( 102 , 120 ). PR have been demonstrated to be co-localized with dynorphin in the KNDy neurons ( 159 ) and progesterone increased dynorphin concentrations ( 256 ). Moreover, the number of preprodynorphin mRNA expressing cells decreased in postmenopausal women ( 236 ) and in ovariectomized ewes, but normalized with exogenous progesterone to luteal levels ( 256 ). Testosterone Feedback Testosterone exerts negative feedback on gonadotropin secretion. Early studies verified that LH and FSH pulse frequency are enhanced in hypogonadal men and exogenous testosterone decreases gonadotropin secretion, suggesting that testosterone have an inhibitory effect on GnRH secretion ( 230 , 257 ). Few GnRH neurons express androgen receptors (AR) ( 258 ). GnRH neurons were thus considered to be reliant on an intermediary neuronal population to mediate testosterone feedback. A key role for KNDy neurons in this mediation has been suggested, as these
