Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


neurons were thus considered to be reliant on an intermediary neuronal population to mediate testosterone feedback. A key role for KNDy neurons in this mediation has been suggested, as these neurons express AR which directly mediate the androgen feedback. The androgen feedback may also rely on the aromatization of testosterone, as testosterone-induced suppression of Kiss1 mRNA in the rodent arcuate nucleus is identical to that observed with estradiol, but more than that observed with dihydrotestosterone administration ( 259 ). The cross-talk between AR and ER was suggested from animal studies: AR expression was downregulated in the prostate following neonatal estrogen exposure ( 260 ), and AR transcription was modulated following a co-transfection of AR and ER ( 261 ). Navarro has described a role for KNDy neurons in mediating the negative testosterone feedback on GnRH secretion, and provided evidence that neurokinin B released from KNDy neurons is part of an auto-feedback loop that generates the pulsatile secretion of Kiss1 and GnRH in male mice: Kiss1 and dynorphin mRNA are regulated by testosterone through estrogen and androgen receptor-dependent pathways; KNDy neurons express neurokinin B receptor whereas GnRH neurons do not, and senktide (an agonist for the neurokinin B receptor) activates KNDy neurons leading to gonadotropin secretion but has no discernible effect on GnRH neurons ( 262 ). Other studies demonstrated that the suppression of gonadotropin secretion using testosterone is associated with a reduction of Kiss1 mRNA in the hypothalamus ( 118 , 208 , 263 ). Moreover, post-orchidectomy rise in LH in rodents can be blocked by kisspeptin antagonists, further suggesting that kisspeptin system mediates the hypothalamic androgen feedback ( 186 ). Stress and Glucocorticoids Physical and psychological stress is associated with hypothalamic amenorrhea, possibly though the activation of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis ( 264 , 265 ). Experimental evidence points towards a cortisol-mediated suppression of gonadotropin secretion as the main key pathway to explain stress-induced gonadotropin suppression ( 55 , 266 - 273 ). The negative effect of cortisol on HPG axis is recognized to occur at both pituitary and hypothalamic levels. There are also data suggesting that upstream factors in the HPA axis, such as Corticotropin Releasing Hormone (CRH) and vasopressin may play a mediatory role ( 274 , 275 ). Cortisol secretion in women with hypothalamic amenorrhea is elevated ( 267 ), and evening adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and cortisol concentrations are higher in excessive exercise ( 266 , 270
