Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


). Cortisol secretion in women with hypothalamic amenorrhea is elevated ( 267 ), and evening adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and cortisol concentrations are higher in excessive exercise ( 266 , 270 ). Administration of exogenous glucocorticoids to eugonadal women was associated with a decrease in LH pulse frequency, suggesting that glucocorticoids have a negative action on GnRH secretion ( 273 ). In ovine portal blood, cortisol administration led to a decrease in GnRH pulse frequency ( 272 ). Inferences of cortisol effects on gonadotropin secretion were also derived from observations in women and men with Cushing’s syndrome (condition associated with excessive cortisol secretion), where exogenous GnRH preferentially stimulates FSH whilst LH remains unchanged ( 268 , 271 ). The resolution of male hypogonadotropic hypogonadism was also observed in men with remission of Cushing’s disease ( 271 ). This negative input of cortisol on the HPG axis may be modulated by sex-steroid hormones, and kisspeptin signaling has also been implicated in the process. Cortisol alone had no impact on GnRH pulsatility in ovariectomized ewes, but the co-administration of estradiol and progesterone led to a 70% decrease in GnRH secretion ( 272 ). Decreased hypothalamic Kiss1 mRNA expression has been observed during exposure to stress or exogenous glucocorticoids. The role of kisspeptin in mediating stress inputs is further supported by the expression of glucocorticoid receptor on murine kisspeptin neurons ( 276 ). Colocalization by immunohistochemistry of CRH receptor (CRH-R) in most hypothalamic kisspeptin neurons in the AVPV/PeN and ARC nuclei as well as glucocorticoid receptor (GR) in AVPV/PeN kisspeptin neurons support a relevant direct role of kisspeptin neurons in the inhibitory effects of CRH/ glucocorticoids ( 277 ). Hypothalamic CRH neurons, important regulators of the stress response, also directly modulate GnRH excitability in a dose-dependent and receptor-specific manner, and the GnRH response to CRH is influenced by estrogens ( 278 ). Intracerebroventricular administration of CRH in female rats suppressed LH pulsatility and the LH surge, and this suppression was enhanced by estrogens ( 279 ). Animal models have also linked increased exposure to RFamide-related peptide-3 (RFRP-3) during acute and chronic stress and hypothalamic expression of GnIH mRNA. Along these lines, the surface of GnIH neurons has glucocorticoid receptors and hydrocortisone administration was associated to an increased GnIH mRNA expression, ultimately leading to lower GnRH activity and dysregulation of the HPG axis ( 280 ). Together, these findings emphasize that kisspeptin as GnIH provide
