Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


to an increased GnIH mRNA expression, ultimately leading to lower GnRH activity and dysregulation of the HPG axis ( 280 ). Together, these findings emphasize that kisspeptin as GnIH provide relevant inputs that contribute to an inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on gonadal axis during stress. Prolactin Prolactin is a well-known inhibitor of GnRH release and a suppressor of the HPG axis. The association between hyperprolactinemia and reproductive dysfunction has long been established, accounting for 14% of secondary amenorrhea and hypogonadism cases ( 281 ) and for a third of women presenting with infertility ( 282 , 283 ). Hyperprolactinemia is evident in 16% of men with erectile dysfunction and in 11% of men with oligospermia ( 284 ). The decreased pulsatility of LH in hyperprolactinemia responds to bromocriptine ( 285 ). GnRH therapy has restored ovulation and normal luteal function in bromocriptine resistant hyperprolactinemia women ( 286 , 287 ), suggesting that prolactin exerts inhibition through direct reduction of GnRH secretion. The neuroendocrine pathway by which prolactin inhibits GnRH pulse frequency remains to be fully elucidated. A direct action of prolactin on the GnRH neuronal network is possible ( 288 , 289 ). Prolactin has also been demonstrated to influence other systems, including GABA ( 290 ), β endorphins ( 291 ), neuropeptide Y ( 292 ) and dopaminergic systems (via tuberoinfundibular dopamine (TIDA) neurons) ( 293 ). Nevertheless, data suggest that prolactin receptors are expressed in most kisspeptin neurons but only in a small proportion of GnRH neurons, indicating that kisspeptin signaling may have a role in this context ( 288 , 294 ). In rodent models, kisspeptin neurons in the arcuate nucleus modulate dopamine release from dopaminergic neurons, thereby regulating prolactin secretion ( 295 ). Kiss1 expression is decreased in lactation, a physiological state associated with hyperprolactinemia ( 296 ). Prolactin-sensitive GABA and kisspeptin neurons were identified in regions of the rat hypothalamus ( 294 ). Moreover, in a mouse model of anovulatory hyperprolactinemia (induced by a continuous infusion of prolactin), Kiss1 mRNA levels were diminished and peripheral administration of kisspeptin restored gonadotropin secretion and ovarian cyclicity ( 297 ). There are also other animal studies reporting an inhibitory effect of prolactin on Kiss1 expression ( 298 , 299 ). This data suggests that kisspeptin is a possible link between hyperprolactinemia and GnRH deficiency. The administration of kisspeptin-10 reactivated the gonadotropin secretion in women with hyperprolactinemia-induced hypogonadotropic amenorrhea,
