Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


299 ). This data suggests that kisspeptin is a possible link between hyperprolactinemia and GnRH deficiency. The administration of kisspeptin-10 reactivated the gonadotropin secretion in women with hyperprolactinemia-induced hypogonadotropic amenorrhea, suggesting that GnRH deficiency in the context of hyperprolactinemia is, at least in part, mediated by an impaired hypothalamic kisspeptin secretion ( 300 ). On the other hand, kisspeptins appears to have a stimulatory effect on prolactin release, as demonstrated in a recent study in ovariectomized rats which had intracerebroventricular injections of kisspeptin-10 with subsequent increase in prolactin release, and this required the estrogen receptor-alpha and was potentiated by progesterone via progesterone receptor activation ( 301 ). Nutrition and Metabolism A link between energy balance and reproductive function enables organisms to survive to reproductive maturity and to withstand the energy needs of parturition, lactation, and other parental behaviors. This link optimizes reproductive success under fluctuating metabolic conditions ( 302 ). Kisspeptin signaling may link nutrition/metabolic status and reproduction by sensing energy stores and translate this information into GnRH secretion ( 303 ). These relations elucidate further associations between reproductive dysfunction and metabolic disturbances, such as diabetes, obesity or anorexia nervosa ( 67 , 304 , 305 ). Food deprivation impairs GnRH and gonadotropin secretion, and leptin (a satiety hormone secreted by adipose tissue, the levels of which drop in response to fasting) plays a role in this inter-regulation by stimulating LH release ( 67 , 306 - 308 ). Periods of fasting and calorie restriction decrease LH pulse frequency and increase pulse amplitude ( 302 , 309 - 311 ). Administration of recombinant leptin increased LH pulse frequency in women with hypothalamic amenorrhea ( 312 ) and prevented fasting-induced drop in testosterone and LH pulsatility in healthy men ( 313 ). Moreover, humans with mutations in leptin or in leptin receptor show hypogonadism ( 314 ). Thus, the crosstalk between kisspeptin and leptin is relevant for reproduction and fertility ( 71 ), including in the setting of assisted reproduction techniques ( 315 ). Kisspeptin neurons may have a role in mediating the metabolic signals of leptin on the control of HPG axis, as 40% of the arcuate kisspeptin neurons express leptin receptors in contrast to the GnRH neurons, where leptin receptors are absent ( 316 - 319 ). Food deprivation is associated with a decrease in kisspeptin, and subsequent reduction in gonadotropin secretion ( 320 - 323 ). Levels of
