Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


receptors are absent ( 316 - 319 ). Food deprivation is associated with a decrease in kisspeptin, and subsequent reduction in gonadotropin secretion ( 320 - 323 ). Levels of low Kiss1 mRNA expression in the leptin-deficient ob/ob mice are partially upregulated by exogenous leptin ( 161 ). Moreover, exogenous kisspeptin restored vaginal opening (marker of sexual maturation) in malnourished rodents ( 320 ). Animal models of type 1 diabetes, characterized by insulin deficiency and impaired cellular nutrition, had hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and decreased Kiss1 mRNA expression. Repeated administration of kisspeptin to these rodents increased prostate and testis weight ( 324 ). It is plausible that a relative deficiency of kisspeptin secretion is a mechanism for hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in patients with obesity and diabetes ( 179 ). In hypogonadal men with type 2 diabetes, kisspeptin-10 increased LH secretion and pulse frequency ( 179 ). Although early studies appeared to suggest a direct link between kisspeptin and leptin, it seems that the neuronal pathway whereby leptin modulates GnRH is far more complex ( 325 , 326 ). Only partial restoration in Kiss1 mRNA in leptin-deficiency and normal pubertal development and fertility observed in selective leptin receptor deletion from kisspeptin neurons suggest that kisspeptin may link reproduction and metabolism through other ways than leptin ( 161 , 327 ). Proopiomelanocortin (POMC), agouti-related peptide, neuropeptide Y, ghrelin, and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) expressing neurons have been linked to this process ( 303 , 319 ). Kisspeptin neurons communicate with POMC and neuropeptide Y neurons and are able to modulate the expression of relevant genes in these cells ( 316 ). This link between kisspeptin and other peptides classically associated to food intake (as POMC and neuropeptide Y) was explored due to the anorexigenic effect of intracerebroventricular administration of KP-10 in male rats mediated via anorectic neuropeptides, nesfatin-1 and oxytocin, expressed in various hypothalamic nuclei. Diminished food intake and anorexia was significantly abolished by pretreatment with oxytocin receptor antagonist ( 328 , 329 ). Several studies have also suggested that ghrelin can interact directly with hypothalamic neurons leading to suppression of gonadotropins release, and thus impairing fertility, an effect that is dependent of the estradiol milieu ( 303 , 330 - 332 ). GABA (Gamma-Amino Butyric Acid) GABA has also been implicated as a regulator of GnRH secretion. Although GABA is classically an inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system, most mature GnRH neurons
