Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


(Gamma-Amino Butyric Acid) GABA has also been implicated as a regulator of GnRH secretion. Although GABA is classically an inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system, most mature GnRH neurons are stimulated by GABA, which has attributed to GABA an excitatory action in HPG axis. The precise physiology of this mechanism is still unclear ( 333 - 337 ), but it may be related to the bidirectional interactions between GABA and kisspeptin pathways, as well as between these and GnRH neurons, in a variety of ways throughout development ( 338 ). In early development, GABA seems to increase KISS1 expression in embryonic phase and early postnatally, while in the absence of GABAergic input the expression of KISS1 declines ( 338 , 339 ). In the prepubertal period, the central restraint on GnRH secretion seems to be mediated by GABA possibly acting directly via kisspeptin neurons ( 338 ). In the peri-pubertal phase, the antagonism of GABA and the intrinsic disinhibition of kisspeptin neurons seem to be critical in puberty initiation and development ( 340 , 341 ). In adulthood, the interactions between GnRH-GABA-kisspeptin become more complex with HPG axis function critically dependent on such interactions. For instance, the preovulatory surge does not occur in the absence of GABA signaling, thus neurons co-expressing GABA and kisspeptin seem crucial in providing double excitatory input to GnRH neurons at the time of ovulation ( 338 , 342 ). Additionally, in healthy men, total endogenous GABA levels in the anterior cingulate cortex, a key limbic structure, significantly decreased after intravenous infusion of kisspeptin (1 nmol/kg/h) demonstrating a potent inhibitory effect of kisspeptin on GABA levels which could be a fundamental concept in understanding the central limbic effect of kisspeptin in the human brain ( 343 ). Other Neuropeptides In addition to KNDy system and GABA, other peptides and neurotransmitters have been shown to influence GnRH-gonadotrope system: vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), vasopressin, catecholamines, nitric oxide, neurotensin, gonadotropin-inhibitory hormone (GnIH) /RFamide related peptide-3 (RFRP-3) ( 337 ), nucleobindin-2/nesfatin-1 ( 344 ). Excitatory inputs to the HPG axis may be mediated by VIP, catecholamines, glutamate and possibly vasopressin, whereas GnIH in birds, or its mammalian homolog RFRP-3, provide inhibitory inputs ( 345 - 349 ). RFRP neuronal populations have been detected mainly in the hypothalamic dorsomedial nucleus or adjacent regions, and they have projections to several hypothalamic areas including the arcuate nucleus, paraventricular nucleus, ventromedial nucleus and
