Physiology of GnRH and Gonadotrophin Secretion
KEYWORDS: pubmed, kisspeptin, gnrh, secretion, neurons, hormone, free, article, free article, pmc free, pmc, article pubmed, endocrinol, receptor, neurokinin


populations have been detected mainly in the hypothalamic dorsomedial nucleus or adjacent regions, and they have projections to several hypothalamic areas including the arcuate nucleus, paraventricular nucleus, ventromedial nucleus and the lateral hypothalamus, all areas with major roles in the regulation of reproduction and energy balance ( 350 , 351 ). RFRP-3, encoded by the gene Rfrp, inhibits the electric firing of GnRH and kisspeptin neurons ( 346 , 352 ), which results in a suppression of GnRH-induced gonadotropin release with consequent inhibition of the reproductive axis ( 353 ). This RFRP-3 inhibitory input on the gonadotropin release is influenced by estrogens and may well be involved in their negative feedback. Estrogens reduce RFRP-3 expression and RFRP-3 neuronal activation ( 354 , 355 ). Particular attention has been paid to the role of glutamate as a stimulatory modulator of the activity of ARC kisspeptin neurons, reaffirming the role of kisspeptin as a major neural integrator of inputs to GnRH neurons. Data from Kiss1 KO rats showed failure to increase GnRH/LH secretion following monosodium glutamate/NMDA administration ( 356 ). SUMMARY Complex neuroendocrine networks coordinate the regulation of reproduction, integrating a wide range of internal and external environmental inputs and signals. GnRH, the principal regulator of reproduction integrates cues from sex steroids, stress, glucocorticoids, nutritional and metabolic status, prolactin and other peptides, to controls gonadotropin secretion and subsequently gonadal function. Recently, the KNDy neuronal network has emerged as essential gatekeeper of GnRH release and thus reproduction, fertility and puberty. Translational clinical studies, exploring kisspeptin and neurokinin B activity in various physiological and pathological states are pivotal to explore potential clinical applications for these novel neuropeptides and their agonists as well as antagonists, may underpin future management of some disorders with dysfunctional GnRH pulsatility, such polycystic ovary syndrome, hypothalamic amenorrhea, infertility, obesity, pubertal disorders and menopause-related symptoms. REFERENCES 1. Herbison AE, Theodosis DT. Localization of oestrogen receptors in preoptic neurons containing neurotensin but not tyrosine hydroxylase, cholecystokinin or luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone in the male and female rat. Neuroscience. 1992;50(2):283-298. [ PubMed : 1359459 ] 2. Fink G. Neuroendocrine regulation of pituitary function: general principles. Neuroendocrinology in Physiology and Medicine. 2000:p.107-134. 3. Tena-Sempere M. Hypothalamic KiSS-1: the missing link in gonadotropin feedback control? Endocrinology. 2005;146(9):3683-3685. [ PubMed : 16105827 ] 4. Baba Y, Matsuo H, Schally AV. Structure of the porcine LH- and FSH-releasing hormone. II. Confirmation of the proposed structure by conventional sequential
