362 BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL VOLUME 288 4 FEBRUARY 1984
KEYWORDS: patients, disease, colitis, crohn, mean, smokers, verapamil, ulcerative, later, smoking, liver, blood, showed, ulcerative colitis, papaverine


362 BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL VOLUME 288 4 FEBRUARY 1984 SHORT REPORTS Should patients with inflammatory possibly by an effect on the immune system, leading to features of bowel disease smoke? Crohn's disease rather thanulcerative colitis. It is difficult to assess the course of disease in a retrospective study, but smokers tendedtodo worse on most counts in each group of patients studied. Two explanations are possible: either smoking An observation that fewer people with ulcerative colitis smoked has a direct effect on the disease or patients who have more severe cigarettes than would be expected' has been confirmed by further symptoms find psychological reliefby continuing smoking. In either studies.2-4 The relevance ofthis finding is at present not clear,5 but event,ourfindings togetherwiththeknownhealth hazardofsmoking it has been suggested that smoking may protect against ulcerative lead us to conclude that, for the present, patients with inflammatory colitis. The reports received widespread publicity, and we are often bowel disease should be advised to stop smoking. askedbypatientswiththediseaseforadviceonsmoking.Wetherefore studiedsmokinghabitsinpatientswithinflammatoryboweldiseaseto HarriesAD,BairdA,RhodesJ.Non-smoking:afeatureofulcerativecolitis. ascertain whether smoking is associated with less severe disease. BrMedJ7 1982;284:706. 2Bures'J, Fixa B, Komarkova 0, Fingerland A. Non-smoking:afeatureof ulcerative colitis. BrMedJ3 1982;285:440. Patients, methods, andresults 3JickH,WalkerAM.Cigarettesmokingandulcerativecolitis.NEnglJ7Med 1983;308:261-3. A total of252 consecutive outpatients with inflammatory bowel disease 4 Logan R, Edmund M, Langman MJS. Is non-smoking associated with were interviewed and their case notes reviewed. Details were obtained of ulcerative colitis? Gut 1983;24:A499. smoking habit, frequency of relapse, symptoms in remission and relapse, 5 Bailas JC. Cigarettes, ulcerative colitis and inferences from uncontrolled anaofoperations. Themeansofthethreemostrecentfullbloodcellcounts, white cell counts, erythrocyte sedimentation rates, albumin concentrations, (Accepted18 October 1983) andplateletcountswererecorded.Patientsweresubdividedintothreegroups Crohn's colitis, and 54 Crohn's disease of the small bowel. Patients with Crohn's diseasein both thesmallbowel andthe colonwereincluded inthe GREGHOLDSTOCK, DM,MRCP, senior registrar (SPSS). The x2 test, with Yates's correction factor when appropriate, was RALPH WRIGHT, DPHIL, FRCP, professorofmedicine used for all cross tabulation ofcoded variables. Continuous variables were Correspondence to: Dr GHoldstock. analysedwithatwotailedStudent'sttest.Probabilityvaluesoflessthan5% were consideredto be significant. The proportion of cigarette smokers was smaller among patients with ulcerative colitis (eight (8%)) than among those with Crohn's colitis (24 (25%);p<0.02)orwithsmallbowelCrohn'sdisease(28(52%);p<00001); the difference in the proportion ofsmokers between patients with Crohn's Liver damage from verapamil colitis andsmallbowelCrohn'sdiseasewasalsosignificant(p<0.02).Thirty three patients with ulcerative colitis (32%), 29 with Crohn's colitis (30%), and seven with small bowel Crohn's disease (13%) were ex-smokers. The groups werewellmatched forage, sex, social class, andduration ofdisease. Verapamil hydrochloride, a derivative of papaverine, is a calcium Thetableshowsclinicaldetailsofpatientswithingroupsaccordingtocurrent channel blocking drugusedtotreatangina pectoris,
