362 BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL VOLUME 288 4 FEBRUARY 1984
KEYWORDS: patients, disease, colitis, crohn, mean, smokers, verapamil, ulcerative, later, smoking, liver, blood, showed, ulcerative colitis, papaverine


After24hourshis conditionwas stable. Unknowntous,hetheninjected phils. Haematoxylin and eosin X250. himself with diamorphine. Five hours later he became drowsy and then unrousable. A used syringe was near his hand, and an empty ampoule of admitted to having smuggledthesein. Hewas given two doses ofnaloxone Comment 0.4mgintravenously threeminutesapart. Ventricularfibrillationwasnoted In 1969 Ronnov-Jessen and Tjernlund first reported hepatic on the monitor three minutes later and responded to cardioversion. Blood glucoseconcentrationwas 11mmol/l(198mg/100ml)andplasmapotassium injury due to treatment with papaverine; their data suggested a concentration 3-1 mmol(mEq)/l. He recovered consciousness but then hypersensitivity reaction.2 A similar mechanism might therefore be relapsed into coma. He was intubated, and five minutes after two further expected with the papaverine derivative verapamil. Recently three dosesofnaloxone0.4mgintravenouslyhehadanotherepisodeofventricular cases of hepatotoxicity possibly induced byverapamil were des- fibrillation. He was defibrillated and given antiarrhythmic drugs. He cribed.134An allergic mechanism was supposed in all of them, but recoveredfullyanddischargedhimself10days later. no histological study was performed. In our patient the absence of Eight months later he was readmitted with symptoms of alcohol with- demonstrable viralinfection,autoimmune disease,andintakeofother drawal. Signs, liver function, radiographic and electrocardiographic ap- toxic drugs supports the view that a syndrome similar to hepatitis pearances, and treatment were as previously. He again surreptitiously injected himself with diamorphine and became comatose. Two doses of can be caused by verapamil. An allergic pathogenesis is even more naloxone 04 mg intravenously were followed by one intramuscularly. His theinterval(twoweeks)betweenthestartoftreatmentwithverapamil lation supervened, necessitating defibrillation and infusion of lignocaine. and onset of symptoms, and the eosinophilia strongly suggest a Naloxone 0.4 mg was again administered intramuscularly, but ventricular hypersensitivity reaction. Furthermore, histological appearances in fibrillation recurred 50 minutes later. Cardioversion and antiarrhythmic our patient were those typically described in idiosyncratic hepatic drugs maintained a stable cardiac output, but he died from hepatic and injury related to hypersensitivity5 and were similar to those found renal failure one week later. Postmortem examination showed hepatic byRonnov-JessenandTjernlundintwooffourcasesofhepatotoxicity cirrhosis andalcoholic cardiomyopathy. induced bypapaverine.2 So far only a limited number of cases have been documented Comment histologically, but the possibility that papaverine and its derivatives maycausehepatitis shouldbekeptinmindifnewcaseswithasimilar Ventricular fibrillation has been reported after reversal ofnarcotic histological picture are described. Physicians should be made aware poisoningwithnalorphine inayoungwomanpresenting in casualty.2 that treatment with verapamil may occasionally provoke hepatic More recently seven casesofadverse cardiac effects after administra- injury, and liver function tests should be monitored carefully in tion ofnaloxone during or after anaesthesia with opiates and nitrous patients being treatedwithverapamil. oxide have
