New Osteoporotic/Vertebral Compression Fractures
KEYWORDS: fractures, bone, fracture, osteoporosis, vertebral, risk, hip, years, patients, treatment, pubmed, vitamin, spine, bmd, women


20-25% after femur or pelvic, 10% following vertebral, and 5-10% following humerus fractures. There is a high prevalence of low vitamin D levels among hip fracture patients. Since there is a large care gap for patients with fragility fractures, there are critical ongoing efforts to try to implement inter-disciplinary, hospital-based approaches to advance fracture care. It is imperative to ensure timely outpatient follow-up to correct the vitamin D deficiency, evaluate patients for other secondary causes of osteoporosis, and institute osteoporosis treatment. See Treatment section for further description of management of these fractures. DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL Assessment of osteoporosis risk factors and measurement of bone mineral density (BMD) by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) are important to determine which individuals are at increased risk of fractures. Low bone mass (osteopenia) is present when the BMD is between 1.0 and 2.5 SDs below peak bone density of young, healthy individuals. More than 50% of fragility fractures occur in these patients. Osteoporosis, according to the World Health Organization, is defined as a BMD ≤-2.5 SDs of young normal. BMD testing is typically measured at the proximal femur and lumbar spine, though the 1/3 radius should be measured in patients with hyperparathyroidism ( https://www.iscd.org/official-positions/ ). The Bone Health & Osteoporosis Foundation (BHOF; formerly the National Osteoporosis Foundation) currently recommends that women ≥65 years, men ≥70 years, and postmenopausal women and men ≥50 years with risk factors or fracture after age 50 receive screening DXA scans ( 3 ). The BHOF recommends monitoring osteoporosis by an annual measurement of a patient’s height, preferably with a mounted stadiometer, and BMD testing 1-2 years after initiating therapy and every 2 years thereafter. Because spine fractures are often not clinically evident, imaging for spine fractures (vertebral fracture assessment by DXA or X-ray) is recommended, particularly in older adults with osteopenia and after adult-age fracture (>50 years of age), glucocorticoid use, or diagnosis of hyperparathyroidism (See Table 1 ) ( 3 , 4 ). The FRAX ® calculator was designed to quantify an individual’s absolute fracture risk ( http://www.shef.ac.uk/FRAX ). In addition to BMD, the following risk factors are included—ethnicity, age, body mass index, prior fracture history, glucocorticoid use, alcohol use, smoking, rheumatoid arthritis, and other secondary causes of osteoporosis. If the 10-year absolute fracture risk is ≥3% for hip fractures or ≥20% for other major osteoporotic fractures, pharmacologic therapy should be considered. Note that the FRAX calculator is
