New Osteoporotic/Vertebral Compression Fractures
KEYWORDS: fractures, bone, fracture, osteoporosis, vertebral, risk, hip, years, patients, treatment, pubmed, vitamin, spine, bmd, women


hyperthyroidism or those already on thyroid hormone replacement), and serum testosterone level in men. For select cases one may consider obtaining specialized tests for gastrointestinal disorders (tissue transglutaminase for celiac disease with an IgA level), infiltrative diseases (serum tryptase for mastocytosis), neoplastic (serum and urine protein electrophoresis), or excess glucocorticoid (24-hour urine cortisol, dexamethasone suppression test). TREATMENT Fractures The management of a vertebral compression fracture involves both pharmacologic and non-pharmacologic approaches. The acute pain typically subsides over several weeks, but pain management with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, neuropathic pain agents, or narcotics may be needed. A 2-4 week course of calcitonin, administered as one spray (200 IU) per day intranasally, may help patients who need additional acute pain management. Spinal bracing may help with pain by limiting movement of bone fragments against one another, and physical therapy may improve mobility and reduce fear of falling. Vertebral fractures are common in older adults and secondary fracture prevention is important. After a vertebral fracture, patients should immediately start osteoporosis treatment to prevent subsequent vertebral fractures, particularly teriparatide, abaloparatide, zoledronic acid, denosumab, or romosozumab, which have been shown to reduce vertebral fracture risk within the first year of treatment. Procedures such as vertebroplasty or kyphoplasty have been thought to be effective for acute fracture pain; however, this finding has not been replicated across studies, especially in those controlled by sham operations. This lack of a clear benefit is also offset by the small but serious risks of these procedures, which include epidural cement leak leading to possible nerve root compression, osteomyelitis, cement pulmonary embolism, and the possibility of subsequent vertebral fractures in adjacent vertebrae. A Cochrane review published in 2018 found no demonstrable clinically important benefits for vertebroplasty compared with placebo (sham procedure), and the results did not differ according to duration of pain (≤6 weeks vs. >6 weeks) ( 5 ). A 2019 American Society for Bone and Mineral Research (ASBMR) task force concluded that, for patients with painful vertebral fractures, there was no significant benefit for vertebroplasty compared to placebo or sham procedures and recommended against the use of balloon kyphoplasty ( 6 ). If vertebral augmentation is considered in select patients with disabling spine fractures, osteoporosis treatment should be initiated concurrently. Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis affects the spine greater than other sites. Glucocorticoids have a major effect on reducing bone formation and also increase bone resorption. Thus, there are two sites for targeted
