New Osteoporotic/Vertebral Compression Fractures
KEYWORDS: fractures, bone, fracture, osteoporosis, vertebral, risk, hip, years, patients, treatment, pubmed, vitamin, spine, bmd, women


Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis affects the spine greater than other sites. Glucocorticoids have a major effect on reducing bone formation and also increase bone resorption. Thus, there are two sites for targeted intervention—anabolic and anti-resorptive treatments, respectively. The American College of Rheumatology has recommended starting bone protection therapy for adults ≥40 years taking prednisone at a dose of ≥2.5 mg/day for ≥3 months if at moderate to high risk for fracture (i.e., FRAX 10-year risk of major osteoporotic fracture >10%, FRAX 10-year risk of hip fracture >1%, osteoporosis by bone density criteria, or prior osteoporotic fracture) ( 7 ). The Food Drug Administration (FDA) has approved the following anti-resorptive agents — risedronate, alendronate, zoledronic acid, and denosumab — and the anabolic agent teriparatide for glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis. In a randomized trial, teriparatide was superior to alendronate in preventing BMD declines at the spine and hip. With regards to hip fractures and the use of zoledronic acid once yearly, the timing of this FDA-approved treatment for secondary fracture prevention is important. There is a significant reduction in vertebral and non-vertebral fractures and mortality as well as an increase in hip BMD in those who receive zoledronic acid and supplemental vitamin D between two weeks and 90 days following a hip fracture. Osteoporosis Adequate calcium and vitamin D intake are essential. In 2010, the Institute of Medicine (IOM) set recommendations for daily calcium and vitamin D requirements ( 8 ). See Table 3 . Table 3. Recommended Daily Intakes of Elemental Calcium (adapted from 2010 IOM report) View in own window Calcium Intake Women 19 to 50 years / Men 19 to 70 years Women ≥51 years / Men ≥71 years 1000 mg 1200 mg Vitamin D Intake Women and Men < 70 years Women and Men > 70 years 600U 800U Obtaining calcium through the diet is preferred. However, if taking calcium supplements, for those on proton pump inhibitors, calcium citrate (e.g., Citracal ® ) is preferred given better absorption over calcium carbonate and can be taken on an empty stomach. Preparations of Citracal ® include Maximum Plus (315 mg of calcium per tablet) and Petite (200 mg of calcium per tablet). Calcium carbonate (e.g., Oscal ® , Caltrate ® ), ranging from 500 to 600 mg per tablet, should be taken with food to allow optimal absorption. Vitamin D deficiency is a prevalent problem. The IOM guidelines recommend a daily dose of vitamin
