New Osteoporotic/Vertebral Compression Fractures
KEYWORDS: fractures, bone, fracture, osteoporosis, vertebral, risk, hip, years, patients, treatment, pubmed, vitamin, spine, bmd, women


to 600 mg per tablet, should be taken with food to allow optimal absorption. Vitamin D deficiency is a prevalent problem. The IOM guidelines recommend a daily dose of vitamin D 3 of 600 IU for individuals ≤70 years of age and 800 IU daily for those ≥71. Other societies recommend 800-1000 IU of vitamin D for high-risk adults with osteoporosis. Patients with vitamin D deficiency need much higher doses. Although there is debate, the BHOF and other organizations currently recommend a 25-hydroxyvitamin D level ≥30 ng/mL There are ongoing, population-based studies that are evaluating the effects of supplemental vitamin D on fractures and bone health measures. Recommendations for lifestyle and dietary modification include weight-bearing exercises, balance training, muscle-strengthening, fall prevention interventions, smoking cessation, and moderate alcohol consumption. PHARMACOLOGIC THERAPIES Table 4 lists the currently available osteoporosis drugs approved by the FDA, their dosage, indication, and general efficacy to reduce fractures. Table 4. FDA-approved Treatments for Osteoporosis: Dose, Fracture Indication, Efficacy and Side Effects View in own window Drug Dose & Administration Fracture Reduction Side Effects Bisphosphonates Alendronate 70 mg PO once weekly V, N, H* Upper GI symptoms, rare bone pain, osteonecrosis of the jaw (rare), atypical femur fracture (rare). Ibandronate 150 mg PO monthly; 3 mg IV every 3 months V Risedronate 35 mg PO once weekly; 150 mg PO once monthly V, N, H Zoledronic Acid (ZA) 5 mg IV once yearly V, N, H Mild flu like syndrome during and after ZA infusion (pre-treat with acetaminophen); ZA should not be given if severe renal impairment (GFR <35 mL/min). After a hip fracture, vitamin D and ZA should be initiated 2 weeks to 90 days after the fracture. SERMs (Selective Estrogen Receptor Modulators) Raloxifene 60 mg PO daily V Hot flashes, deep vein thrombosis (rare) Parathyroid Hormone PTH Teriparatide (PTH 1-34) 20 mcg SC daily V, N Nausea, hypercalcemia, hypercalciuria, hypotension (rare) PTHrP Abaloparatide (PTHrP 1-34) 80 mcg SC daily (for maximum of 2 years) V, N Nausea, hypercalcemia, hypercalciuria, dizziness, osteosarcoma (in rodents) RANKL inhibitor Denosumab 60 mg SC every 6 months V, N, H Skin infections, other uncommon infections, osteonecrosis of the jaw (rare), atypical femur fractures (rare), bone loss/vertebral fractures upon discontinuation Sclerostin inhibitor Romosozumab 210 mg SC every month for 12 months V, N, H Injection site reaction, major adverse cardiac events, osteonecrosis of the jaw (rare), atypical femur fracture (rare) Other Calcitonin
