New Osteoporotic/Vertebral Compression Fractures
KEYWORDS: fractures, bone, fracture, osteoporosis, vertebral, risk, hip, years, patients, treatment, pubmed, vitamin, spine, bmd, women


Romosozumab 210 mg SC every month for 12 months V, N, H Injection site reaction, major adverse cardiac events, osteonecrosis of the jaw (rare), atypical femur fracture (rare) Other Calcitonin 200 IU nasally or 100 IU subcutaneously every other day V Nasal congestion, malignancy V: vertebral, N: non-vertebral, H: hip CURRENT THERAPEUTIC APPROACH Pharmacologic treatment is indicated for those with osteoporosis by BMD criteria; fragility vertebral or hip fracture regardless of BMD; fragility fracture of the pelvis, proximal humerus, or wrist with osteopenic range BMD; and elevated FRAX scores. The most commonly used therapy is a bisphosphonate, which has long skeletal retention, decreases bone turnover, and reduces the risk of fractures (see Table 4 ). Alendronate, risedronate, and zoledronic acid decrease vertebral, non-vertebral, and hip fractures, whereas ibandronate decreases vertebral but not hip or non-vertebral fractures. There is concern about the association of its long-term use and risk of atypical femur fractures. These fractures ( 1 ) can occur along the subtrochanteric femur, ( 2 ) are associated with minimal or no trauma, ( 3 ) are in transverse or short oblique configuration, and ( 4 ) usually are complete fractures through both cortices. Some patients have prodromal symptoms of thigh or groin pain in the affected leg; bilateral atypical femur fractures may also be present. The incidence of these types of fractures is very low, and the consensus has been that the number of fractures prevented far exceeds the number of these fractures occurring as a result of bisphosphonates. According to the available limited, post-hoc data analyses, continuation of therapy after 3 years for zoledronic acid and 5 years for oral bisphosphonates may be considered in those with hip, spine, or multiple other osteoporotic fractures before or during therapy, osteoporosis at the hip after treatment, or high fracture risk. According to the 2011 FDA review, more data are needed concerning long-term bisphosphonate use. Until these data are available, annual evaluation and follow-up should involve decisions as to whether a 1-2 year or greater bisphosphonate holiday is needed, according to each individual’s risk, or to consider the use of alternative treatments as needed. It is important, however, to follow patients with a history of low bone mass or osteoporosis who are on a bisphosphonate holiday. Another rare complication is osteonecrosis of the jaw, which usually occurs in the setting of an invasive dental procedure. This complication is primarily seen in
