Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, serum, tsh, thyroid, secondary, secondary hypothyroidism, levothyroxine, levels, symptoms, older, primary, hormone, dose, therapy


measurement of serum TSH) should be evaluated at 6- to 12-month intervals. Secondary hypothyroidism Secondary hypothyroidism occurs when the hypothalamus produces insufficient thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) or the pituitary produces insufficient TSH. Sometimes, deficient TSH secretion due to deficient TRH secretion is termed tertiary hypothyroidism. Subclinical hypothyroidism Subclinical hypothyroidism is elevated serum TSH in patients with absent or minimal symptoms of hypothyroidism and normal serum levels of free thyroxine (T4). Subclinical thyroid dysfunction is relatively common; it occurs in approximately 15% of older females and 10% of older males (1), particularly in those with underlying Hashimoto thyroiditis. In patients with serum TSH > 10 mIU/L (> 10 microIU/mL), there is a high likelihood of progression to overt hypothyroidism with low serum levels of free T4 within the next 10 years. These patients are also more likely to have hypercholesterolemia and atherosclerosis. They should be treated with levothyroxine, even if they are asymptomatic. For patients with TSH levels between 4.5 and 10 mUI/L, (4.5 and 10 microIU/L) a trial of levothyroxine is reasonable if symptoms of early hypothyroidism (eg, fatigue, depression) are present. Levothyroxine therapy is also indicated in pregnant women and in women who plan to become pregnant to avoid deleterious effects of hypothyroidism on the pregnancy and fetal development. Patients should have annual measurement of serum TSH and free T4 to assess progress of the condition if untreated or to adjust the levothyroxine dosage. Symptoms and Signs of Hypothyroidism Symptoms and signs of primary hypothyroidism are often subtle and insidious. The most common presenting symptoms are fluid retention and puffiness, especially periorbitally, tiredness, cold intolerance, and mental fogginess. Various organ systems may be affected with many possible signs and symptoms, including Metabolic: Cold intolerance, modest weight gain (due to fluid retention and decreased metabolism), hypothermia Neurologic: Forgetfulness, paresthesias of the hands and feet (often due to carpal tunnel syndrome caused by deposition of proteinaceous ground substance in the ligaments around the wrist and ankle); slowing of the relaxation phase of deep tendon reflexes Psychiatric: Personality changes, depression, dull facial expression, dementia or frank psychosis (myxedema madness) Dermatologic: Facial puffiness; myxedema; sparse, coarse and dry hair; coarse, dry, scaly and thick skin; carotenemia, particularly notable on the palms and soles (caused by deposition of carotene in the lipid-rich epidermal layers); macroglossia due to deposition of proteinaceous ground substance in the tongue Ocular: Periorbital swelling due to infiltration with the mucopolysaccharides hyaluronic
