Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, serum, tsh, thyroid, secondary, secondary hypothyroidism, levothyroxine, levels, symptoms, older, primary, hormone, dose, therapy


by deposition of carotene in the lipid-rich epidermal layers); macroglossia due to deposition of proteinaceous ground substance in the tongue Ocular: Periorbital swelling due to infiltration with the mucopolysaccharides hyaluronic acid and chondroitin sulfate, droopy eyelids because of decreased adrenergic drive Gastrointestinal: Constipation Gynecologic: Heavy menstrual bleeding or secondary amenorrhea Cardiovascular: Slow heart rate (a decrease in both thyroid hormone and adrenergic stimulation causes bradycardia), enlarged heart on examination and imaging (partly because of dilation but chiefly because of pericardial effusion; pericardial effusions develop slowly and only rarely cause hemodynamic distress) Other: Pleural or abdominal effusions (pleural effusions develop slowly and only rarely cause respiratory or hemodynamic distress), hoarse voice, and slow speech Symptoms can differ significantly in older patients. Although secondary hypothyroidism is uncommon, its causes often affect other endocrine organs controlled by the hypothalamic-pituitary axis. In a female with hypothyroidism, indications of secondary hypothyroidism are a history of amenorrhea rather than heavy menstrual bleeding and some suggestive differences on physical examination. Secondary hypothyroidism is characterized by skin and hair that are dry but not very coarse, skin depigmentation, only minimal macroglossia, atrophic breasts, and low blood pressure. Also, the heart is small, and serous pericardial effusions do not occur. Hypoglycemia is common because of concomitant adrenal insufficiency or growth hormone deficiency. Myxedema coma Myxedema coma is a life-threatening complication of hypothyroidism, usually occurring in patients with a long history of hypothyroidism. Its characteristics include coma with extreme hypothermia (temperature 24° to 32.2° C), areflexia, seizures, and respiratory depression with carbon dioxide retention. Severe hypothermia may be missed unless low-reading thermometers are used. Rapid diagnosis based on clinical judgment, history, and physical examination is imperative, because death is likely without rapid treatment. Precipitating factors include illness, infection, trauma, medications or substances that suppress the central nervous system, and exposure to cold. Free thyroxine (T4) level Serum thyroid-stimulating hormone measurement is the most sensitive test for diagnosing hypothyroidism. In primary hypothyroidism, there is decreased feedback inhibition of the intact pituitary, and serum TSH is always elevated, whereas serum free T4 is low. In secondary hypothyroidism, free T4 and serum TSH are low (sometimes TSH is normal but with decreased bioactivity). Many patients with primary hypothyroidism have normal circulating levels of triiodothyronine (T3), probably caused by sustained TSH stimulation of the failing thyroid, resulting in preferential synthesis and secretion of biologically active T3. Therefore, serum T3 is not sensitive for hypothyroidism.
