Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, serum, tsh, thyroid, secondary, secondary hypothyroidism, levothyroxine, levels, symptoms, older, primary, hormone, dose, therapy


triiodothyronine (T3), probably caused by sustained TSH stimulation of the failing thyroid, resulting in preferential synthesis and secretion of biologically active T3. Therefore, serum T3 is not sensitive for hypothyroidism. Anemia is often present, usually normocytic-normochromic and of unknown etiology, but it may be hypochromic because of iron deficiency due to heavy menstrual bleeding and sometimes macrocytic because of associated pernicious anemia or decreased absorption of folate. Anemia is rarely severe (hemoglobin is usually > 9 g/dL [> 90 g/L]). As the hypometabolic state is corrected, anemia subsides, sometimes requiring 6 to 9 months. Serum cholesterol is usually high in primary hypothyroidism but not as high in secondary hypothyroidism. In addition to primary and secondary hypothyroidism, other conditions may cause decreased levels of total T4, such as euthyroid sick syndrome and serum thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG) deficiency. Screening Screening for hypothyroidism is warranted in select populations (eg, neonates, older adults with risk factors) in which it is relatively more prevalent, especially because it can cause significant morbidity and its manifestations can be subtle. Screening is done by measuring TSH levels. Treatment of Hypothyroidism Levothyroxine, adjusted until TSH levels are in midnormal range (1) Various thyroid hormone preparations are available for replacement therapy, including synthetic preparations of T4 (levothyroxine), T3 (liothyronine), combinations of the 2 synthetic hormones, and desiccated porcine thyroid extract. Levothyroxine is preferred; the usual maintenance dose is 75 to 150 mcg orally once a day, depending on age, body mass index, and absorption (for pediatric treatment, see Hypothyroidism in Infants and Children). In young or middle-aged patients who are otherwise healthy, the starting dose of levothyroxine can be 100 mcg or 1.7 mcg/kg orally once a day. In patients with heart disease, therapy is begun with low doses of levothyroxine, usually 25 mcg once a day. The dose is adjusted every 6 weeks until maintenance dose is achieved. The maintenance dose may need to be increased in patients who are pregnant. Dose may also need to be increased if medications that decrease T4 absorption or increase its metabolic clearance are administered concomitantly. The dose used should be the lowest that restores serum TSH levels to the midnormal range (though this 5/8 criterion cannot be used in patients with secondary hypothyroidism). In secondary hypothyroidism the dose of levothyroxine should achieve a free T4 level in the midnormal range. Liothyronine (L-triiodothyronine) should not be used alone for long-term replacement because of
