Hypothyroidism
KEYWORDS: hypothyroidism, patients, serum, tsh, thyroid, secondary, secondary hypothyroidism, levothyroxine, levels, symptoms, older, primary, hormone, dose, therapy


factor should be rapidly and appropriately treated and fluid replacement given carefully, because hypothyroid patients do not excrete water appropriately. Finally, all medications should be given cautiously because they are metabolized more slowly than in healthy people. Geriatrics Essentials: Hypothyroidism Hypothyroidism is particularly common among older adults. It occurs in close to 10% of women and 6% of men > 65 years. Although typically easy to diagnose in younger adults, hypothyroidism may be subtle and manifest atypically in older adults. Older patients have significantly fewer symptoms than do younger patients, and symptoms and signs are often subtle and vague. Many older patients with hypothyroidism present with nonspecific geriatric syndromes—confusion, anorexia, weight loss, falling, incontinence, and decreased mobility. Musculoskeletal symptoms (especially arthralgias) occur often, but arthritis is rare. Muscular aches and weakness, often mimicking polymyalgia rheumatica or polymyositis, and an elevated creatine kinase (CK) level may occur. In older patients, hypothyroidism may mimic dementia or parkinsonism. In older patients, levothyroxine therapy is begun with low doses, usually 25 mcg once a day. Maintenance doses may also need to be lower in older patients. Key Points Hypothyroidism is deficiency of thyroid hormone. The most common etiology of hypothyroidism is primary thyroid disease, often due to Hashimoto thyroiditis, but sometimes caused by some treatments (thyroid surgery, radioactive iodine therapy, radiation therapy to the neck, or some medications). Secondary hypothyroidism is caused by hypothalamic or pituitary disease. Signs and symptoms of primary hypothyroidism are often mild and nonspecific and can include fatigue, cold intolerance, constipation, fluid retention, periorbital edema, and/or impaired mental clarity. Subclinical hypothyroidism (minimal or no symptoms and an elevated serum level of thyroid-stimulating hormone [TSH]) and normal free thyroxine [T4]) is common. Diagnose primary or secondary hypothyroidism by testing serum TSH and T4. In primary hypothyroidism, TSH is elevated and T4 is low; in secondary hypothyroidism, both TSH and T4 are low. Myxedema coma (coma, hypothermia, and other organ dysfunction) is a rare life- threatening condition that can occur during acute illness in patients with hypothyroidism; it requires rapid diagnosis and treatment. Treat with levothyroxine and adjust dose until TSH levels are normal. Check cortisol levels in patients with secondary hypothyroidism before starting thyroid replacement therapy, because of the serious risk of adrenal crisis. Screen selected patients (neonates, older adults with risk factors) with a serum TSH.
