Online Submissions: wjg.wjgnet.com World J Gastroenterol 2007 July 7; 13(25): 3425-3429
KEYWORDS: placebo, response, effect, placebo effect, placebo response, treatment, pain, patients, effects, trials, bowel, group, study, disease, symptom


the most powerful placebo effect can inflammatory bowel disease). be elicited in patients suffering from chronic pain syndromes. This is also true for experiments in healthy © 2007 WJG. All rights reserved. subjects when pain is used as an intervention. Placebo analgesic effects are well established and have largely Key words: Placebo; Gastrointestinal disease; Regression helped to understand the neurobiology of pain-associated to the mean; Natural history; Pavlovian conditioning; placebo response[3,10-12]. In this context, the placebo effect Outcome expectation; Beliefs has been shown to be stronger when complex and invasive interventions are used, and placebos given Musial F, Klosterhalfen S, Enck P. Placebo responses at a higher frequency appear to be more effective. In in patients with gastrointestinal disorders. World J addition to acute and chronic pain, placebo effect has Gastroenterol 2007; 13(25): 3425-3429 been observed in patients with depression, Parkinson's disease, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), and several other clinical conditions. In order to structure the discussion on "placebo", Hoffmann et al suggested distinguishing placebo effect from placebo response. These authors proposed that the INTRODUCTION term placebo effect should be used to refer to an average A "placebo" is an inert or sham treatment used as a improvement in a group of subjects who received placebo pharmacological control when assessing an active drug. treatment, whereas the term placebo response should This is a standard requirement in clinical trials designed refer to a change in the individual in response to placebo to asses the effectiveness of drug treatment. However, treatment. Such a distinction is helpful in classifying the www.wjgnet.com 3426 ISSN 1007-9327 CN 14-1219/R World J Gastroenterol July 7, 2007 Volume 13 Number 25 problems associated with the placebo effect, to identify Placebo effects: group of subjects effects which maybe mistaken as placebo effects, and to regression to the mean investigate the mechanisms underlying the true placebo natural history true placebo response response. Two major methodological biases may be mistaken for a true placebo response: the effect of natural history and regression to the mean. Placebo response: individual reaction expection conditioning Variability/signal NATURAL HISTORY AND REGRESSION TO suggestion to noise ratio beliefs THE MEAN etc. Neurobiological basis It can be assumed that a pathological condition, such as for example stomach pain, will peak at some point and Figure 1 Characteristics of the placebo effect and possible confounding then eventually subside as long as it does not follow a mechanisms compared to
