Online Submissions: wjg.wjgnet.com World J Gastroenterol 2007 July 7; 13(25): 3425-3429
KEYWORDS: placebo, response, effect, placebo effect, placebo response, treatment, pain, patients, effects, trials, bowel, group, study, disease, symptom


will peak at some point and Figure 1 Characteristics of the placebo effect and possible confounding then eventually subside as long as it does not follow a mechanisms compared to possible mechanisms of the placebo response. chronic course. An ineffective treatment will not influence the course of the disease, while an effective treatment will decrease the peak and most likely flatten the slope of and the length of the interval to be rated by the patients the curve, such that the symptoms are either less intense retrospectively, also influence whether placebo effect and/or will subside earlier. A successful placebo will can be separated from regression to the mean. decrease the slope of the curve, maybe even to the extent an effective treatment would (in this case, the treatment would not be superior to placebo). However, only those FACTORS INFLUENCING THE PLACEBO studies that include a "non-treatment group" are able RESPONSE to separate natural history from a placebo effect. Thus, even in Beecher's first systematic analysis of the placebo It is usually very difficult to assess the placebo effect in mechanisms such as natural history and regression to the aim of these studies is to asses the effectiveness of an mean. active treatment and not the placebo. In most of these Typically, subjects show individual variation of papers, the placebo response is rather an unwanted side symptoms over time. These fluctuations tend to change effect (for methodological discussion see[23-25]). However, towards the mean. The mechanism is similar to the law possible mediators of the placebo response such as the of initial values: subjects starting with a high value have a patient's expectations and classical conditioning, and less higher chance of decreasing values than subjects starting well evaluated factors such as beliefs, have been identified. with low values. Hoffman et al argue that patients These factors influence the "signal-to-noise ratio" which have the highest chance of seeking treatment, when the describes the ability of the patient or the doctor to identify symptom level is high, or at least close to maximal. This a change in symptoms (Figure 1). will most likely also be the point, where these individuals One of the most plausible theories put forward have the highest chance to be entered into a study. Thus, to explain at least some of the placebo responses, the since their initial symptom level is high, they have a higher Pavlovian conditioning, is derived
