Online Submissions: wjg.wjgnet.com World J Gastroenterol 2007 July 7; 13(25): 3425-3429
KEYWORDS: placebo, response, effect, placebo effect, placebo response, treatment, pain, patients, effects, trials, bowel, group, study, disease, symptom


entered into a study. Thus, to explain at least some of the placebo responses, the since their initial symptom level is high, they have a higher Pavlovian conditioning, is derived from learning theory: chance for decreased symptom levels in their second the response to an inert stimulus, a neutral stimulus in assessment, even though the decrease in symptoms is learning theory and the placebo in the healing context, not exclusively attributable to treatment or placebo, but is a consequence of its previous pairing with an active may as well be natural history or regression to the mean. component that induced symptom improvement. As a Again, the only reliable way to control for both effects, consequence, the whole illness history of the patient will besides blinding the study participants and the investigator, influence the response to placebo: were pain killers is an untreated control group. In their meta-analysis, always successful given as pills, a placebo pill will most Hrobjartsson & Gotzsche compared only clinical trials likely be effective as well. including a no-treatment group. They concluded that often Pavlovian conditioning has been shown to influence there was only a small difference between the placebo immunological, endocrinal, intestinal, and other body group and the untreated control group, with the exception functions. Moreover, Benedetti et al were able to of pain treatment, where the placebo effect was more show that Pavlovian conditioning in the pain context was substantial. able to override verbal placebo instructions. Presumably, Regression to the mean is more pronounced in disease Pavlovian conditioning to a placebo will induce a placebo states, which have a cyclical course (e.g. IBS, depression). response, which activates the same biological mechanism Thus, it can be expected, that the longer the trial lasts, as the active drug. This mechanism has been investigated the more pronounced the effect will be. Nonetheless, the in detail for placebo analgesia. Placebo analgesia is average placebo response in patients with irritable bowel mediated through the endogenous opiate system and syndrome is about 40%, even if the study period is as can be blocked by the opiate antagonist naloxone, while long as one year. Moreover, factors such as the methods naloxone alone does not induce an enhancement of pain used to measure symptoms (global symptom scores vs in a non-treatment group[10,28-31]. Furthermore, in healthy specific symptom scores including symptom severity), subjects placebo analgesia activates the same cortical areas www.wjgnet.com Musial F et
