Online Submissions: wjg.wjgnet.com World J Gastroenterol 2007 July 7; 13(25): 3425-3429
KEYWORDS: placebo, response, effect, placebo effect, placebo response, treatment, pain, patients, effects, trials, bowel, group, study, disease, symptom


symptoms (global symptom scores vs in a non-treatment group[10,28-31]. Furthermore, in healthy specific symptom scores including symptom severity), subjects placebo analgesia activates the same cortical areas www.wjgnet.com Musial F et al. Placebo in gastrointestinal diseases 3427 in experimental pain as opiate analgesia. These cortical Table 1 An example of a possible "balanced placebo design" areas are also activated, when pain is anticipated. study Outcome expectations have been shown to induce placebo responses. A recent experiment in patients Information with IBS showed that within 15 min after rectal lidocaine Drug Placebo infusion, patients reported relief of both rectal pain as Application Drug True positive False negative Placebo False positive True negative well as lower limb cutaneous hyperalgesia. The placebo (saline infusion) was also able to reduce the rectal and limb pain, though to a lesser extend. When the placebo One half of each group receiving either the drug or placebo in a blinded fashion is informed that they have received the drug, the other half is application was combined with verbal suggestion for informed that they have received a placebo. pain relief in another study from the same group, the placebo response reached the same level of effectiveness as lidocaine. less visits were less likely to induce large placebo response Outcome expectations may also interact with Pavlovian rates compared to 4 or more visits during the trial. Placebo conditioning. In a recent study by Benedetti et al, verbal effects for Crohn's disease were on average 18% for instruction was as successful in inducing placebo analgesia remission, however, there was a large inter-study variability, by means of Pavlovian conditioning. However, this effect ranging between 0% and 50%. Potent predictors of the was not replicated in conditioned hormonal response. placebo response were the number of study visits, study Conditioned suppression of cortisol secretion was able to duration and severity of disease at entry. override verbal instructions, but verbal instructions alone In patients with duodenal ulcer, the placebo effect were not sufficient to override the conditioned hormonal ranged between 0% and 100% (with an average of about response. These findings emphasize that placebo analgesia, 35%). In this condition, the placebo rate was dependent a process associated with a high level of conscious on dose frequency and was 6% to 8% higher when the symptom awareness, differs substantially from other medication was given four times a day compared to twice placebo responses. daily. A high
