Online Submissions: wjg.wjgnet.com World J Gastroenterol 2007 July 7; 13(25): 3425-3429
KEYWORDS: placebo, response, effect, placebo effect, placebo response, treatment, pain, patients, effects, trials, bowel, group, study, disease, symptom


frequency and was 6% to 8% higher when the symptom awareness, differs substantially from other medication was given four times a day compared to twice placebo responses. daily. A high covariation between the response rates to the active drug and the placebo response rates within and PLACEBO EFFECTS IN PATIENTS WITH across trials are indicative of a low verum effect and a high rate of "spontaneous healing". This finding is common FUNCTIONAL BOWEL DISORDERS in diseases with a high rate of spontaneous fluctuation According to two recent meta-analyses and results of 45 and has also been reported for ulcer disease. The published trials, the placebo response rate in functional correlation between the drug healing rate and the placebo dyspepsia varies between 6% and 72%. The placebo healing rate based on data from 117 ulcer treatment trials response rate in IBS (based on 50 placebo controlled trials) was highly significant (r = 0.4). Moerman's observations ranged between 3% and 84%[38-42]. strongly support the argument for the inclusion of The reason for this wide range remains unclear, but the untreated control groups, if the true placebo response is factors influencing the placebo response seem to be the to be separated from "natural history". duration of the study, the number of follow up visits during the study and the number of patients included METHODOLOGICAL ASPECTS AND in the study. Enck & Klosterhalfen reanalysed the data compiled by Spiller with respect to the association IMPLICATIONS FOR CLINICAL TRIALS between the amplitude of the placebo effect and the It is clear that "placebo" is not a homogeneous concept or study duration. They also included the only available 1 phenomenon. Besides general methodological problems year study. Even considering that only three studies such as regression to the mean and natural history which lasted longer than three weeks, it appears that with longer maybe mistaken as a placebo effect, the placebo response treatment duration, the placebo response will stabilize at itself and whether it occurs or not is strongly dependent around 40%. Moreover, if the sample size is greater than on several factors such as the disease being assessed 500 patients, the placebo effect tends to stabilize around (e.g. pain associated symptoms are more susceptible 40%. Considering the initial range (3%-84% for IBS and to placebo), variables associated with the patient (e.g. 6%-72% in functional dyspepsia), this finding supports the outcome expectation and beliefs) and the doctor
