Bookshelf_NBK525916
KEYWORDS: asparagine, deficiency, testing, genetic, pathogenic, synthetase, asparagine synthetase, synthetase deficiency, asns, individuals, asd, variants, developmental, affected, reported


NLM Citation: Alfadhel M, El-Hattab AW. Asparagine Synthetase Deficiency. 2018 Sep 20 [Updated 2025 Nov 20]. In: Adam MP, Bick S, ® Mirzaa GM, et al., editors. GeneReviews [Internet]. Seattle (WA): Bookshelf URL: Asparagine Synthetase Deficiency Synonym: ASNS Deficiency Created: September 20, 2018; Updated: November 20, 2025. Summary Clinical characteristics Asparagine synthetase deficiency (ASD) mainly presents as a triad of congenital microcephaly, severe developmental delay, and axial hypotonia followed by spastic quadriplegia. Low cerebrospinal fluid asparagine concentration can help the clinician in differentiating this disorder from others. In most individuals with ASD, developmental milestones. Spastic quadriplegia can lead to severe contractures of the limbs and neurogenic scoliosis. Feeding difficulties (gastroesophageal reflux disease, frequent vomiting, swallowing dysfunction, and gastroesophageal incoordination) are a significant problem in most affected individuals. A majority have cortical blindness. Brain MRI findings are nonspecific but may include generalized atrophy and simplified gyral pattern. Diagnosis The diagnosis of ASD is established in a proband with suggestive findings and biallelic pathogenic variants in ASNS identified by molecular genetic testing. Management Treatment of manifestations: Supportive developmental therapies; standard treatment for seizures; antispastic ® medication (baclofen, tizanidine) and/or Botox injection for spasticity; clonazepam for hyperekplexia; treatment of scoliosis per orthopedist; feeding therapy and/or nasogastric or gastrostomy tube to support nutrition; pharmacologic treatment for gastroesophageal reflux disease; standard treatment for constipation; low vision services as needed; mechanical ventilation may be required for apnea; regular immunizations to prevent life-threatening infections; hearing aids as needed for hearing loss; transitional plan to adult care; social work and family support. . 2 GeneReviews ® Surveillance: At each visit, evaluation of developmental progress and growth; assessment for progression of spasticity and contractures; assessment for new neurologic manifestations; physical medicine and occupational and physical therapy assessment of mobility and self-help skills; assessment for scoliosis; measurement of growth parameters; assessment of nutritional status and safety of oral intake; assessment for constipation; and assessment for evidence of aspiration and respiratory insufficiency. Measurement of serum total protein, albumin, and prealbumin every six months. Annual ophthalmologic evaluation. EEG if there are concerns for new-onset seizure activity or progression of seizures. Audiologic evaluation if there are concerns for hearing loss. Genetic counseling ASD is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. If both parents are known to be heterozygous for an ASNS pathogenic variant, each sib of an affected individual has at conception a 25% chance of being affected, a 50% chance of being
