Bookshelf_NBK525916
KEYWORDS: asparagine, deficiency, testing, genetic, pathogenic, synthetase, asparagine synthetase, synthetase deficiency, asns, individuals, asd, variants, developmental, affected, reported


are known to be heterozygous for an ASNS pathogenic variant, each sib of an affected individual has at conception a 25% chance of being affected, a 50% chance of being an asymptomatic carrier, and a 25% chance of being unaffected and not a carrier. Once the ASNS pathogenic variants have been identified in an affected family member, carrier testing for at-risk relatives and prenatal/preimplantation genetic testing are possible. Diagnosis No consensus clinical diagnostic criteria for asparagine synthetase deficiency (ASD) have been published. Suggestive Findings family history. Clinical findings • Congenital and progressive microcephaly • Severe global developmental delay • Hypotonia followed by spastic quadriplegia, seizures, jitteriness, and hyperekplexia • Intrauterine growth restriction with subsequent feeding difficulties, failure to gain weight, and short stature • Cortical blindness Laboratory findings • Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) asparagine concentration is typically low or not detected [Alfadhel et al 2015, Yamamoto et al 2017]. In rare instances, it has been reported to be normal [Seidahmed et al 2016, Jahanpanah et al 2024]. • Plasma asparagine concentration is low in about half of affected individuals and is not as sensitive as CSF asparagine concentration in supporting the diagnosis. • Normal plasma acylcarnitine profile, creatine kinase, total homocysteine, lactic acid, ammonia, and urine organic acids Brain imaging findings • Generalized brain atrophy • Delayed myelination • Gyral simplification pattern • Decreased size of pons • Cerebellar vermis hypoplasia Asparagine Synthetase Deficiency 3 Family history is consistent with autosomal recessive inheritance (e.g., affected siblings and/or parental consanguinity). Absence of a known family history does not preclude the diagnosis. Establishing the Diagnosis The diagnosis of ASD is established in a proband with suggestive findings and biallelic pathogenic (or likely pathogenic) variants in ASNS identified by molecular genetic testing (see Table 1). Note: (1) Per American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) / Association for Molecular Pathology variant interpretation guidelines, the terms "pathogenic variant" and "likely pathogenic variant" are decision making [Richards et al 2015]. Reference to "pathogenic variants" in this GeneReview is understood to include likely pathogenic variants. (2) Identification of biallelic ASNS variants of uncertain significance (or of one known ASNS pathogenic variant and one ASNS variant of uncertain significance) does not establish or rule out the diagnosis. Molecular genetic testing approaches can include a combination of gene-targeted testing (single gene testing, multigene panel) and comprehensive genomic testing (exome sequencing, genome sequencing). Gene-targeted testing requires that the clinician
