Bookshelf_NBK525916
KEYWORDS: asparagine, deficiency, testing, genetic, pathogenic, synthetase, asparagine synthetase, synthetase deficiency, asns, individuals, asd, variants, developmental, affected, reported


Molecular genetic testing approaches can include a combination of gene-targeted testing (single gene testing, multigene panel) and comprehensive genomic testing (exome sequencing, genome sequencing). Gene-targeted testing requires that the clinician determine which gene(s) are likely involved (see Option 1), whereas comprehensive genomic testing does not (see Option 2). Option 1 When the phenotypic and laboratory findings suggest the diagnosis of ASD, molecular genetic testing approaches can include single-gene testing or use of a multigene panel. • Single-gene testing. Sequence analysis of ASNS is performed first to detect missense, nonsense and splice site variants and small intragenic deletions/insertions. Typically, if only one or no variant is detected by the sequencing method used, the next step is to perform gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis to detect exon and whole-gene deletions or duplications; however, to date such variants have not been identified as a cause of this disorder. • A multigene panel that includes ASNS and other genes of interest (see Differential Diagnosis) is most likely to identify the genetic cause of the condition while limiting identification of pathogenic variants and variants of uncertain significance in genes that do not explain the underlying phenotype. Note: (1) Th e genes included in the panel and the diagnostic sensitivity of the testing used for each gene vary by laboratory and are likely to change over time. (2) Some multigene panels may include genes not associated with the condition discussed in this GeneReview. (3) In some laboratories, panel options may include a custom laboratory-designed panel and/or custom phenotype-focused exome analysis that includes genes specified by the clinician. (4) Methods used in a panel may include sequence analysis, deletion/duplication analysis, and/or other non-sequencing-based tests. genetic tests can be found here. Option 2 Comprehensive genomic testing does not require the clinician to determine which gene is likely involved. Exome sequencing is most commonly used; genome sequencing is also possible. ACMG and the American Academy of Pediatrics recommend exome/genome sequencing as first- or second-tier diagnostic testing for children with developmental delay, intellectual disability, and/or multiple congenital anomalies [Manickam et al 2021, Rodan et al 2025]. 4 GeneReviews ® ordering genomic testing can be found here. Table 1. Asparagine Synthetase Deficiency: Molecular Genetic Testing Proportion of Pathogenic Variants 2 Gene 1 Method Identified by Method Sequence analysis 3 >97% 4 ASNS Gene-targeted deletion/duplication 1 reported 6 analysis 5 1. See Table A. Genes and Databases for chromosome locus and protein. 2. See
