Bookshelf_NBK525916
KEYWORDS: asparagine, deficiency, testing, genetic, pathogenic, synthetase, asparagine synthetase, synthetase deficiency, asns, individuals, asd, variants, developmental, affected, reported


(SD) below the mean at birth and greater features can be associated. Most primary microcephalies are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. To date, pathogenic variants in more than 100 genes are known to cause primary microcephaly (for review, see Jayaraman et al ). 2. Di Donato et al 3. The term lissencephaly refers to a "smooth brain" with absent (agyria) or abnormally wide gyri (pachygyria). 4. Chhajed et al Management No clinical practice guidelines for asparagine synthetase deficiency (ASD) have been published. In the absence of published guidelines, the following recommendations are based on the authors' personal experience managing individuals with this disorder. Evaluations Following Initial Diagnosis To establish the extent of disease and needs in an individual diagnosed with ASD, the evaluations summarized in Table 4 (if not performed as part of the evaluation that led to the diagnosis) are recommended. Table 4. Asparagine Synthetase Deficiency: Recommended Evaluations Following Initial Diagnosis System/Concern Evaluation Comments • To incl motor, adaptive, cognitive, & speech-language eval Development Developmental assessment • Eval for early intervention / special education • EEG if seizures are a concern • Brain MRI to evaluate extent of disease Neurologic Neurologic eval • Assessment for abnormal tone, spasticity, & movement disorder • Consider radiographic scoliosis survey (radiographs of Musculoskeletal Clinical eval for scoliosis spine) based on clinical suspicion. • Consider referral to orthopedist if scoliosis is present. Assess growth parameters to identify those w/poor weight gain. Gastrointestinal/ Assess for feeding problems incl difficulty w/ Feeding Referral to feeding therapist if feeding problems identified sucking, swallowing, & GERD. Assess for constipation. Ocular Ophthalmologic eval Consider visual evoked potential test. Respiratory Sleep study to assess for apnea as needed Asparagine Synthetase Deficiency 9 Table 4. continued from previous page. System/Concern Evaluation Comments Hearing Audiologic eval To obtain a pedigree & inform affected persons & their families re Genetic counseling By genetics professionals 1, 2 nature, MOI, & implications of ASD to facilitate medical & personal decision making Assessment of family & social structure to determine need for: Family support By clinicians, wider care team, & family • Community or online resources such as Parent to Parent & resources support organizations • Social work involvement for parental support ASD = asparagine synthetase deficiency; GERD = gastroesophageal reflux disease; MOI = mode of inheritance physician assistant) Treatment of Manifestations The management of ASD requires a multidisciplinary team approach; treatment is primarily supportive.
