Bookshelf_NBK525916
KEYWORDS: asparagine, deficiency, testing, genetic, pathogenic, synthetase, asparagine synthetase, synthetase deficiency, asns, individuals, asd, variants, developmental, affected, reported


abilities and sensory impairments to determine the most appropriate form of communication. AAC devices can range from low-tech, such as picture exchange communication, to high-tech, such as voice- rather support optimal speech and language development. Surveillance To monitor existing manifestations, the individual's response to supportive care, and the emergence of new manifestations, the evaluations summarized in Table 6 are recommended. 12 GeneReviews ® Table 6. Asparagine Synthetase Deficiency: Recommended Surveillance System/Concern Evaluation Frequency Development Monitor developmental progress & educational needs. • Monitor those w/seizures as clinically indicated. At each visit • Assess for progression of spasticity & contractures. • Assess for new manifestations such as seizures, changes in tone, & movement disorders. Neurologic As needed for new-onset EEG seizure activity or progression of seizures • Physical medicine & OT/PT assessment of mobility & self-help skills Musculoskeletal At each visit • Clinical assessment for scoliosis • Measurement of growth parameters • Eval of nutritional status & safety of oral intake At each visit Nutrition/Feeding/ • Assessment for constipation Gastrointestinal Measure serum total protein, albumin, & prealbumin. Every 6 mos Vision Ophthalmologic eval to assess for vision impairment & cortical blindness Annually Respiratory Assess for evidence of aspiration & respiratory insufficiency. At each visit Hearing Audiologic eval If concern for hearing loss Assess family need for social work support (e.g., palliative/respite care, home Family/Community nursing, other local resources), care coordination, or follow-up genetic At each visit counseling if new questions arise (e.g., family planning) OT = occupational therapy; PT = physical therapy Evaluation of Relatives at Risk See Genetic Counseling for issues related to testing of at-risk relatives for genetic counseling purposes. Therapies Under Investigation Search ClinicalTrials.gov in the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for access to information on clinical studies for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Note: There may not be clinical trials for this disorder. Genetic Counseling Genetic counseling is the process of providing individuals and families with information on the nature, mode(s) of inheritance, and implications of genetic disorders to help them make informed medical and personal decisions. Th e following section deals with genetic risk assessment and the use of family history and genetic testing to clarify genetic status for family members; it is not meant to address all personal, cultural, or ethical issues that may arise or to substitute for consultation with a genetics professional. —ED. Mode of Inheritance Asparagine synthetase deficiency
