Bookshelf_NBK525916
KEYWORDS: asparagine, deficiency, testing, genetic, pathogenic, synthetase, asparagine synthetase, synthetase deficiency, asns, individuals, asd, variants, developmental, affected, reported


of genetic risk and discussion of the availability of prenatal/ preimplantation genetic testing is before pregnancy. • It is appropriate to offer genetic counseling (including discussion of potential risks to offspring and reproductive options) to the parents of an affected child. • Carrier testing should be considered for the reproductive partners of individuals known to be carriers of ASD, particularly if consanguinity is likely and/or if both partners are of the same ancestry. ASNS founder variants have been identified in individuals of Iranian-Jewish ancestry and Saudi ancestry (see Table 7). Prenatal Testing and Preimplantation Genetic Testing Once the ASNS pathogenic variants have been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. Differences in perspective may exist among medical professionals and within families regarding the use of prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing. While most health care professionals would consider the use of prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing to be a personal decision, discussion of these issues may be helpful. 14 GeneReviews ® Resources GeneReviews staff has selected the following disease-specific and/or umbrella support organizations and/or registries for the benefit of individuals with this disorder and their families. GeneReviews is not responsible for the • American Association on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (AAIDD) Phone: 202-387-1968 aaidd.org • American Epilepsy Society (AES) aesnet.org • Epilepsy Foundation Phone: 800-332-1000 Email: epilepsy.com Molecular Genetics Information in the Molecular Genetics and OMIM tables may differ from that elsewhere in the GeneReview: tables may contain more recent information. —ED. Table A. Asparagine Synthetase Deficiency: Genes and Databases Gene Chromosome Locus Protein HGMD ClinVar ASNS 7q21.3 Asparagine synthetase ASNS ASNS [glutamine-hydrolyzing] Data are compiled from the following standard references: gene from HGNC; chromosome locus from OMIM; protein from UniProt. Table B. OMIM Entries for Asparagine Synthetase Deficiency (View All in OMIM) 108370 ASPARAGINE SYNTHETASE; ASNS 615574 ASPARAGINE SYNTHETASE DEFICIENCY; ASNSD Molecular Pathogenesis ASNS encodes asparagine synthetase, which catalyzes the de novo synthesis of asparagine from glutamine and aspartate [Ruzzo et al 2013]. Asparagine is a nonessential amino acid, required for cell proliferation and early embryonic brain development. ASNS pathogenic variants result in loss of enzyme function, which in turn results in impaired synthesis of asparagine, making asparagine an essential amino acid in individuals with asparagine synthetase deficiency (ASD). The dependence of the brain on the de novo synthesis of asparagine, and subsequent cerebral deficiency of this amino acid, helps explain the neurologic sequelae
