Bookshelf_NBK62111
KEYWORDS: individuals, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, kabuki, pathogenic variant, kabuki syndrome, affected, growth, anomalies, related, testing, diagnosis, genetic, hearing


NLM Citation: Adam MP, Hannibal M. Kabuki Syndrome. 2011 Sep 1 [Updated 2026 Apr 23]. In: Adam MP, Bick S, Mirzaa GM, et al., editors. ® Seattle; 1993-2026. Bookshelf URL: Kabuki Syndrome Synonyms: Kabuki Make-Up Syndrome, Niikawa-Kuroki Syndrome 1 2 Created: September 1, 2011; Revised: April 23, 2026. Summary Clinical characteristics Kabuki syndrome (KS) is characterized by typical facial features (long palpebral fissures with eversion of the lateral third of the lower eyelid; arched and broad eyebrows; short columella with depressed nasal tip; large, prominent, or cupped ears), minor skeletal anomalies, persistence of fetal fingertip pads, mild-to-moderate intellectual disability, and postnatal growth deficiency. Other findings may include: congenital heart defects, genitourinary anomalies, cleft lip and/or palate, gastrointestinal anomalies including anal atresia, ptosis and strabismus, and widely spaced teeth and hypodontia. Functional differences can include: increased susceptibility to infections and autoimmune disorders, seizures, endocrinologic abnormalities (including isolated premature thelarche in females), feeding problems, and hearing loss. Diagnosis/testing The diagnosis of KS is established in a proband of any age with a history of infantile hypotonia, developmental delay, and/or intellectual disability AND one or both of the following:(1) Typical dysmorphic features (long palpebral fissures with eversion of the lateral third of the lower eyelid, and ≥2 of the following: arched and broad eyebrows with the lateral third displaying notching or sparseness; short columella with depressed nasal tip; large, prominent, or cupped ears; persistent fingertip pads); (2) A heterozygous pathogenic variant in KMT2D or a heterozygous or hemizygous pathogenic variant in KDM6A. Management Treatment of manifestations: Thickened feedings and positioning after meals to treat gastroesophageal r eflux; gastrostomy tube placement if feeding difficulties are severe. If cognitive difficulties are evident, psychoeducational testing and special education services to address the individual child's needs. Evaluation by a developmental pediatrician or psychiatrist if behavior suggests autism spectrum disorders. Standard anti-seizure treatment. Standard treatment for hyperinsulinism. 2 GeneReviews ® Prevention of secondary complications: Prophylactic antibiotic treatment prior to and during any procedure (e.g., dental work) may be indicated for those with specific heart defects. Surveillance: Monitor height, weight, and head circumference at each well-child visit and, at a minimum, yearly. Developmental milestones should be followed with each well-child visit. Monitor vision and hearing on a yearly basis. Genetic counseling KMT2D-related KS is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner; KDM6A-related KS is inherited in an X- linked manner. Autosomal dominant inheritance: The proportion of KS caused by a
