Bookshelf_NBK62111
KEYWORDS: individuals, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, kabuki, pathogenic variant, kabuki syndrome, affected, growth, anomalies, related, testing, diagnosis, genetic, hearing


Genetic counseling KMT2D-related KS is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner; KDM6A-related KS is inherited in an X- linked manner. Autosomal dominant inheritance: The proportion of KS caused by a de novo KMT2D pathogenic variant is the risk to the sibs is 50%. X-linked inheritance: If the mother of the proband has a KDM6A pathogenic variant, the chance of transmitting it in each pregnancy is 50%. Males who inherit the pathogenic variant will be affected; females who inherit the pathogenic variant will be heterozygous and may have features of KS. Once the causative pathogenic variant has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing for KS are possible. Diagnosis Consensus clinical diagnostic criteria for Kabuki syndrome (KS) have been published [Adam et al 2019]. Suggestive Findings KS should be suspected in individuals with any combination of the five cardinal manifestations as defined by Niikawa et al , specific structural anomalies, and/or functional differences. Cardinal manifestations 1. Typical facial features: ⚬ Long palpebral fissures with eversion of the lateral third of the lower eyelid ⚬ Highly arched and broad eyebrows with the lateral third displaying sparseness or notching ⚬ Short columella with depressed nasal tip ⚬ Large, prominent, and/or cupped ears 2. Skeletal anomalies: ⚬ Spine abnormalities including sagittal clefts, hemivertebrae, butterfly vertebrae, narrow intervertebral disc space, and/or scoliosis ⚬ Brachydactyly V ⚬ Brachymesophalangy ⚬ Clinodactyly of fifth digits 3. Dermatoglyphic abnormalities: persistence of fetal fingertip pads Note: While absence of digital triradius c and/or d and increased digital loop and hypothenar loop 4. Mild-to-moderate intellectual disability Kabuki Syndrome 3 5. Postnatal growth deficiency Structural anomalies in KS can include the following: • Ophthalmologic anomalies including ptosis and strabismus • Ear pits (a potentially helpful diagnostic clue when seen with other typical findings) • Cleft lip and/or palate • Dental anomalies including widely spaced teeth and hypodontia • Congenital heart defects • Gastrointestinal anomalies including anal atresia • Genitourinary anomalies including cryptorchidism in males Functional differences can include the following: • Hearing loss • Feeding problems • Endocrinologic abnormalities including hyperinsulinism and/or isolated premature thelarche in females • Increased susceptibility to infections and autoimmune disorders • Seizures Establishing the Diagnosis The diagnosis of KS is established in a proband of any age with a history of infantile hypotonia, developmental delay, and/or intellectual disability AND one or both of the following [Adam et al 2019]: • Typical dysmorphic
