Bookshelf_NBK62111
KEYWORDS: individuals, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, kabuki, pathogenic variant, kabuki syndrome, affected, growth, anomalies, related, testing, diagnosis, genetic, hearing


a proband of any age with a history of infantile hypotonia, developmental delay, and/or intellectual disability AND one or both of the following [Adam et al 2019]: • Typical dysmorphic features * at some point of life • A heterozygous pathogenic (or likely pathogenic) variant in KMT2D or a heterozygous or hemizygous pathogenic (or likely pathogenic) variant in KDM6A (Table 1) * Typical dysmorphic features include long palpebral fissures (a palpebral fissure measurement ≥2 SD above the mean for age) with eversion of the lateral third of the lower eyelid AND two or more of the following: • Arched and broad eyebrows with the lateral third displaying notching or sparseness • Short columella with depressed nasal tip • Large, prominent, or cupped ears • Persistent fingertip pads Note: (1) Per American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics / Association for Molecular Pathology variant interpretation guidelines, the terms "pathogenic variant" and "likely pathogenic variant" are synonymous [Richards et al 2015]. Reference to "pathogenic variants" in this GeneReview is understood to include likely pathogenic variants. (2) The identification of variant(s) of uncertain significance (VUS) cannot be used to confirm or rule out the diagnosis; however, epigenetic signature analysis may help determine if a VUS is more likely to be pathogenic or benign. Molecular genetic testing approaches can include a combination of gene-targeted testing (single-gene testing, concurrent or serial single-gene testing, multigene panel) and comprehensive genomic testing (chromosomal microarray analysis, exome sequencing, exome array, genome sequencing) depending on the phenotype. Gene-targeted testing requires that the clinician determine which gene(s) are likely involved, whereas genomic testing does not. Because the phenotype of Kabuki syndrome is broad, individuals with the distinctive finding s described in Suggestive Findings are likely to be diagnosed using gene-targeted testing (see Option 1), whereas those in whom the diagnosis of Kabuki syndrome has not been considered are more likely to be diagnosed using genomic testing (see Option 2). 4 GeneReviews ® Option 1 When the phenotypic and laboratory findings suggest the diagnosis of Kabuki syndrome, molecular genetic testing approaches can include single-gene testing or use of a multigene panel. Single-gene testing. Sequence analysis of KMT2D and KDM6A detects missense, nonsense, and splice site variants and small intragenic deletions/insertions; typically, exon or whole-gene deletions/duplications are not detected. • Perform sequence analysis of KMT2D first. If no pathogenic variant is found, perform gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis to detect intragenic deletions or duplications. •
