Bookshelf_NBK62111
KEYWORDS: individuals, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, kabuki, pathogenic variant, kabuki syndrome, affected, growth, anomalies, related, testing, diagnosis, genetic, hearing


or whole-gene deletions/duplications are not detected. • Perform sequence analysis of KMT2D first. If no pathogenic variant is found, perform gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis to detect intragenic deletions or duplications. • Sequence analysis and gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis of KDM6A can be considered next if no pathogenic variant is found. Note: Affected individuals with classic features who have a mosaic heterozygous pathogenic variant in KMT2D have been reported; therefore, Lepri et al suggested that targeted next-generation sequencing may be a more appropriate method of mutation detection compared to traditional Sanger sequencing. A multigene panel that includes KMT2D, KDM6A, and other genes of interest (see Differential Diagnosis) is most likely to identify the genetic cause of the condition while limiting identification of pathogenic variants and variants of uncertain significance in genes that do not explain the underlying phenotype. Note: (1) The genes included in the panel and the diagnostic sensitivity of the testing used for each gene vary by laboratory and are likely to change over time. (2) Some multigene panels may include genes not associated with the condition discussed in this GeneReview. (3) In some laboratories, panel options may include a custom laboratory-designed panel and/or custom phenotype-focused exome analysis that includes genes specified by the clinician. (4) Methods used in a panel may include sequence analysis, deletion/duplication analysis, and/or other non- sequencing-based tests. For this disorder a multigene panel that also includes deletion/duplication analysis is recommended (see Table 1). tests can be found here. Option 2 When the diagnosis of Kabuki syndrome is not considered because an individual has atypical phenotypic features, comprehensive genomic testing (which does not require the clinician to determine which gene[s] are likely involved) is the best option. Exome sequencing is the most commonly used genomic testing method; genome sequencing is also possible. ordering genomic testing can be found here. Epigenetic Signature Analysis / Methylation Array A distinctive epigenetic signature (disorder-specific genome-wide changes in DNA methylation profiles) in peripheral blood leukocytes has been identified in individuals with Kabuki syndrome [Aref-Eshghi et al 2020, Levy et al 2021]. Epigenetic signature analysis of a peripheral blood sample or DNA banked from a blood sample can therefore be considered to clarify the diagnosis in individuals with: (1) suggestive findings of Kabuki syndrome but in whom no pathogenic variant in KDM6A or KMT2D has been identified via sequence analysis or genomic testing; or (2) suggestive findings of Kabuki syndrome and a KDM6A
