Bookshelf_NBK62111
KEYWORDS: individuals, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, kabuki, pathogenic variant, kabuki syndrome, affected, growth, anomalies, related, testing, diagnosis, genetic, hearing


reasons (see Gastrointestinal). • In adolescence and adulthood, more than half of individuals with KS develop obesity [Cheon & Ko 2015], • Without treatment (see Endocrine, Short stature), postnatal growth deficiency is evident by age 12 months. Lack of a typical growth spurt during puberty exacerbates short stature [Schott et al 2016a]. Microcephaly may or may not accompany short stature. • KMT2D-related KS-specific growth charts for weight, height, head circumference, and body mass index (BMI) by sex have been published [Ruault et al 2020]. It is unclear if individuals with KDM6A-related KS have the same growth pattern as those with KMT2D-related KS. Ophthalmologic Ocular findings occur in more than one third of individuals with Kabuki syndrome and include blue sclerae, strabismus, ptosis, coloboma, Marcus Gunn phenomenon (also referred to as jaw winking), and corneal abnormalities such as Peters anomaly. 6 GeneReviews ® • Rarely, more severe eye anomalies may occur, such as optic nerve hypoplasia, colobomatous microphthalmia, and anophthalmia [Chen et al 2014, McVeigh et al 2015]. • Functional visual problems may include difficulties with motor coordination, visuoperception, and visuomotor integration [Caciolo et al 2018]. Failure to detect and treat these issues can exacerbate learning issues [Lehman et al 2017]. • As a result of the everted lower eyelid, children with KS can demonstrate excessive tearing, which is not usually a significant problem. However, nocturnal lagophthalmos, which occurs in many children with KS, can predispose to corneal abrasion and scarring. Ears and Hearing Most individuals with KS have prominent and cup-shaped ears. Ear pits are also relatively common. From a medical standpoint, chronic otitis media is a major cause of morbidity, including conductive hearing loss. It is not clear, however, whether this finding is related to an underlying susceptibility to infection or to the craniofacial abnormalities, such as palatal insufficiency. Up to 50% of individuals with KS have hearing loss. Although chronic otitis media is the most common cause, sensorineural hearing loss can rarely occur and some individuals have progressive hearing loss. Inner-ear malformations including Mondini dysplasia, vestibular enlargement, aplastic cochlea and semicircular canals, and aqueductal enlargement have been reported. At least one individual with a clinical diagnosis of Kabuki syndrome who had profound progressive sensorineural hearing loss received a cochlear implant with a reported improvement in quality of life [Vesseur et al 2016]. Craniofacial Cleft lip and/or palate affects approximately one third of individuals with KS. Submucous cleft palate
