Bookshelf_NBK62111
KEYWORDS: individuals, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, kabuki, pathogenic variant, kabuki syndrome, affected, growth, anomalies, related, testing, diagnosis, genetic, hearing


cochlear implant with a reported improvement in quality of life [Vesseur et al 2016]. Craniofacial Cleft lip and/or palate affects approximately one third of individuals with KS. Submucous cleft palate may be underascertained [Paik & Lim 2016]. Almost three quarters of affected individuals have a high-arched palate. As with all children with palatal abnormalities, feeding difficulties, frequent otitis media, and speech difficulties are more common in this subset of affected individuals. A number of individuals have lower lip pits [Porntaveetus et al 2018]. The typical facial features (elongated palpebral fissures with eversion of the lateral third of the lower eyelid; arched and broad eyebrows; short columella with depressed nasal tip; and large, prominent, or cupped ears) are considered part of the diagnostic criteria of KS and are therefore present in almost all individuals who have a clinical diagnosis of KS. A majority of individuals with a molecularly confirmed diagnosis of KS are also found to have these characteristic facial features [Adam et al 2019]. Dental A number of different dental anomalies in individuals with KS have been noted [Porntaveetus et al 2018]. Hypodontia is most common, with absent lateral upper incisors, absent lower incisors, ectopic upper six-year molars, and missing second premolars also being described. Abnormally shaped teeth (e.g., flathead- screwdriver-shaped appearance of the upper incisors), small teeth, widely spaced teeth, and malocclusion may also be seen. Cardiovascular Approximately 70% of individuals with KS have a congenital heart defect [Digilio et al 2017]. Many heart defects have been described in association with KS, but left-sided obstructive lesions, especially coarctation of the aorta, are the most common. Other defects may include (alone or in combination): septal defects, bicuspid aortic valve, mitral valve anomalies, conotruncal heart defects, and hypoplastic left heart syndrome. Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and aortic root dilatation have been occasionally reported. Kabuki Syndrome 7 Respiratory Eventration of the diaphragm has been rarely reported [Zarate et al 2012]. Laryngeal abnormalities may pose problems with anesthesia (see Management, Treatment of Manifestations). Gastrointestinal Feeding difficulties are quite common (~70%) and may be related to hypotonia, poor oromotor coordination, and swallowing difficulties [Cheon & Ko 2015] that may require nasogastric or gastrostomy tube placement. Many individuals with KS have gastroesophageal reflux. Abnormalities involving the gastrointestinal system are not common in KS; however, the following may be seen rarely: • Anorectal anomalies including imperforate anus, anovestibular fistula, and anteriorly placed anus [Siminas et al 2015] •
