Bookshelf_NBK62111
KEYWORDS: individuals, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, kabuki, pathogenic variant, kabuki syndrome, affected, growth, anomalies, related, testing, diagnosis, genetic, hearing


system are not common in KS; however, the following may be seen rarely: • Anorectal anomalies including imperforate anus, anovestibular fistula, and anteriorly placed anus [Siminas et al 2015] • Congenital diaphragmatic hernia and eventration of the diaphragm • Cholestasis from a variety of causes • Chronic diarrhea from malabsorption and/or celiac disease Genitourinary Kidney and urinary tract anomalies are seen in more than 25% of affected individuals [Courcet et al 2013]. Common kidney findings include anomalies of kidney position and ascent (single fused kidneys, crossed fused renal ectopia) and renal dysplasia; hydronephrosis is the most common urinary tract finding. Other anomalies may include ureteropelvic junction obstruction and duplication of the collecting system. Hypospadias and cryptorchidism can occur in males [Bögershausen & Wollnik 2013]. Musculoskeletal Joint hypermobility is seen in 50%-75% of individuals with KS. Joint dislocations, especially involving the hips, patellae, and shoulders, are not uncommon. As in most conditions with joint laxity, this finding improves with age. • Variable degrees of scoliosis and kyphosis are seen and may be associated with vertebral anomalies (hemivertebrae, butterfly vertebrae, sagittal clefts). • Persistent fetal fingertip pads are considered one of the five cardinal manifestations of KS and are therefore found in a large proportion of affected individuals [Adam et al 2019]. • Absence of digital triradius c and/or d and increased digital loop and hypothenar loop patterns can also be • Other hand findings (brachydactyly V, brachymesophalangy, and clinodactyly of the 5th digits) can also be Suggestive Findings). Endocrine Premature thelarche in girls is the most common endocrine abnormality described (16%-41%) [Banka et al 2012]. This finding does not represent premature puberty and is likely to resolve with time. Short stature, even absent growth hormone deficiency, has responded to growth hormone therapy without exacerbating disproportion: 8 GeneReviews ® • In a study by Schott et al [2016a], average adult height without growth hormone therapy was between 2.99 and 1.08 standard deviations (SD) below the mean in males and between 5.57 and 1.47 SD below the mean in females. • After one year of growth hormone treatment, the average height improved from 2.40 to 1.69 SD below the mean [Schott et al 2016b]. • Those who initiated growth hormone therapy at an earlier age received the most benefit in terms of catch- up growth. • After one year of growth hormone therapy, body proportions were not significantly affected. Hyperinsulinism (HI) is likely
