Bookshelf_NBK62111
KEYWORDS: individuals, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, kabuki, pathogenic variant, kabuki syndrome, affected, growth, anomalies, related, testing, diagnosis, genetic, hearing


earlier age received the most benefit in terms of catch- up growth. • After one year of growth hormone therapy, body proportions were not significantly affected. Hyperinsulinism (HI) is likely underascertained in affected individuals and may be a presenting sign in neonates, although HI can also develop in older affected individuals. • Failure to recognize and treat HI in a timely fashion can lead to irreversible neurologic damage and exacerbate developmental issues. • It is estimated that about 1% of neonates with HI have a diagnosis of KS [Yap et al 2019]. • In a study of 33 individuals with HI and KS (29 of whom had a confirmed molecular diagnosis) seen in an al 2024]. ⚬ The median age of diagnosis of HI in this study was 1.8 months, with 20/33 (61%) of affected individuals being diagnosed with KS after their diagnosis of HI. The latest age at which HI was diagnosed in this cohort was 28.3 months. This individual experienced resolution of HI at age 10.5 years. ⚬ Diazoxide therapy was trialed in 25/33 of the individuals with HI, with a response rate of 92%. ⚬ Treatment for HI was able to be discontinued in 15 individuals at a median age of 2.8 years. ⚬ Of the affected individuals with HI and a molecular diagnosis of KS, 24/29 (83%) had a pathogenic variant in KMT2D, while 5/29 (17%) had a pathogenic variant in KDM6A. Other. The following findings have been described in a small subset of individuals with KS in the literature: • Adrenal insufficiency • Combined pituitary hormone deficiency • Diabetes insipidus • Frank growth hormone deficiency • Hypothyroidism • Primary ovarian dysfunction • True precocious puberty Immunologic Immune dysfunction including both humoral immune deficiency and autoimmune disease has been described [Lindsley et al 2016]. Clinical findings in affected individuals may mimic those seen in individuals with common variable immune deficiency. • Frequent and recurrent infections, such as frequent sinopulmonary infections and recurrent otitis media, are found in a majority of affected individuals [Lin et al 2015]. • Hypogammaglobulinemia and IgA deficiency are common. • Diminished B-cell populations have also been reported [Lindsley et al 2016]. • Autoimmune conditions such as vitiligo, immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), hemolytic anemia, and even diabetes mellitus have also been described in affected individuals, most commonly in childhood or adolescence [Brackmann et al 2013, Giordano et al 2014, Lindsley et al 2016]. Kabuki
