Bookshelf_NBK62111
KEYWORDS: individuals, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, kabuki, pathogenic variant, kabuki syndrome, affected, growth, anomalies, related, testing, diagnosis, genetic, hearing


in both comprehension and production of verbal language, but this may be related, in part, to hearing, neurologic, orofacial, and cognitive deficits [Morgan et al 2015]. ⚬ No specific language profile has been identified. However, all language subdomains including syntax, morphology, pragmatics, and semantics may be affected. ⚬ Dysarthria (reduced rate and stress, distorted pitch, harsh vocal quality, hypernasality, and imprecise consonants) has also been described. ⚬ On formal neuropsychiatric testing, individuals with KS tend to score better in the areas of vocabulary comprehension and working memory and score lower in the areas of nonverbal reasoning and processing speed [Lehman et al 2017]. • In terms of adaptive skills, individuals with KS have more difficulties with daily living than with communication. • An educational environment that stresses audio-verbal learning over visual learning may beneficial (see Ophthalmologic). 10 GeneReviews ® Behavior Individuals with KS tend to be described as pleasant and outgoing. • Attention-deficit disorder and/or hyperactivity are present in a subset of affected individuals. Other behavioral findings including anxiety disorder, self-harm, and sleep disturbance have been rarely reported [Banka et al 2015, Caciolo et al 2018]. • Autism continues to be a rare but described finding in affected individuals [Paděrová et al 2016, Sertçelik et al 2016]. Whether this is truly part of the spectrum of KS or is a coincidental secondary diagnosis as a result of the frequency of autism spectrum disorders in the general population remains to be seen. Benign Tumors Pilomatricomas, benign tumors of the hair shaft that commonly occur on the head and neck, have been described rarely in those with Kabuki syndrome [Bernier et al 2017]. In most cases, removal by a dermatologist is sufficient. Malignancies Although pathogenic somatic variants in KMT2D and KDM6A have been seen in a variety of sporadic tumors [Huether et al 2014], malignancies (primarily as case reports) have only been described in a few individuals with KS. There is no clear evidence of a significant predisposition to the development of cancer in individuals with KS [Roma et al 2015, Karagianni et al 2016]. Therefore, no tumor screening protocol for individuals with KS has been developed. Phenotype Correlations by Gene KMT2D • Those with a KMT2D pathogenic variant are more likely to have the distinctive Kabuki facial phenotype, which may reflect the fact that a portion of those without a KMT2D pathogenic variant may indeed have been misdiagnosed. • In general,
