Bookshelf_NBK62111
KEYWORDS: individuals, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, kabuki, pathogenic variant, kabuki syndrome, affected, growth, anomalies, related, testing, diagnosis, genetic, hearing


to have the distinctive Kabuki facial phenotype, which may reflect the fact that a portion of those without a KMT2D pathogenic variant may indeed have been misdiagnosed. • In general, those with a KMT2D pathogenic variant are also more likely to have renal anomalies, feeding problems, premature thelarche in females, joint dislocations, and palatal anomalies than are those without a KMT2D pathogenic variant [Bögershausen & Wollnik 2013, Courcet et al 2013]. KDM6A. The following are proportionally more common in individuals with a pathogenic variant in KDM6A [Banka et al 2015, Yap et al 2019]: • Hypoglycemia as a result of hyperinsulinism Note: The overall number of individuals with KS and hyperinsulinism is greater in individuals with a pathogenic variant in KMT2D due to the fact that KMT2D accounts for many more individuals with KS. Proportionally, however, hyperinsulinism is seen in a higher percentage of individuals with KS due to pathogenic variants in KDM6A. • Hypertrichosis • Long halluces • Large central incisors Affected males are more likely to have moderate-to-severe developmental delay / cognitive impairment than are females, who may have mild-to-moderate intellectual disability. In general, females with a pathogenic variant in KDM6A tend to have milder features than affected males, despite the fact that KDM6A escapes X-chromosome inactivation [Banka et al 2015]. Kabuki Syndrome 11 Genotype-Phenotype Correlations KMT2D • Individuals with KS caused by a heterozygous pathogenic missense variants in the terminal regions of KMT2D may have an increased risk for autoimmune disease [Lindsley et al 2016]. • Individuals with KS caused by a whole-gene deletion of KMT2D or pathogenic truncating variants that occur in the first half of the gene may have more severe intellectual disability [Lehman et al 2017]. Note: Individuals with a heterozygous pathogenic variant involving exons 38 or 39 potentially resulting in a gain of function may have some features similar to KS but otherwise have a phenotype that is noticeably different from KS (see Genetically Related Disorders). KDM6A • Based on small numbers of individuals with KDM6A-related KS, pathogenic variants at the 3' end of the gene are more common than those at the 5' end [Bögershausen et al 2016]. • Splice site variants, as compared to nonsense, missense, and small in/dels, are the most common type of single-nucleotide variant in individuals with KDM6A-related KS [Bögershausen et al 2016]. Penetrance Penetrance for pathogenic variants in KMT2D appears to be complete; not enough information is
