Bookshelf_NBK62111
KEYWORDS: individuals, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, kabuki, pathogenic variant, kabuki syndrome, affected, growth, anomalies, related, testing, diagnosis, genetic, hearing


most common type of single-nucleotide variant in individuals with KDM6A-related KS [Bögershausen et al 2016]. Penetrance Penetrance for pathogenic variants in KMT2D appears to be complete; not enough information is available to make any conclusions regarding penetrance for those with pathogenic variants in KDM6A. Variable expressivity may lead to underascertainment of mildly affected individuals. Prevalence The prevalence of KS in Japan is estimated at 1:32,000 live births [Niikawa et al 1988]. The live birth prevalence outside Japan presumably approximates that seen in the Japanese population. White et al calculated a minimum birth incidence of 1:86,000 in Australia and New Zealand. Genetically Related (Allelic) Disorders KMT2D-related disorder. Individuals with a heterozygous pathogenic missense variant that involves exons 38 or 39 and that generally falls within an approximately 56-amino-acid region flanked by Leu3525 and Lys3583 have features that are not typical for KS [Baldridge et al 2020, Cuvertino et al 2020]. Reported individuals may have choanal atresia, hypoplastic or absent nipples, external and internal ear anomalies with hearing loss, brachial sinus abnormalities, interstitial lung disease, hypothyroidism, hypoparathyroidism, variable developmental delay/intellectual disability (although some have normal intelligence), and dysmorphic features that are distinct from what is typically seen in individuals with KS. Although these individuals may technically meet the international consensus diagnostic criteria for KS as a result of having a history of infantile hypotonia, developmental delay, and/or intellectual disability AND a heterozygous pathogenic variant in KMT2D, the reports by Baldridge et al and Cuvertino et al suggest that the phenotype is noticeably differen t from KS. Furthermore, a possible gain-of-function mechanism has been hypothesized for this phenotype, as opposed to a loss-of-function mechanism for KS. KDM6A. No phenotypes other than those discussed in this GeneReview are known to be associated with germline pathogenic variants in KDM6A. 12 GeneReviews ® Differential Diagnosis Table 2. Kabuki Syndrome: Differential Diagnosis Disorder Gene(s) MOI Clinical Features Similar to KS Clinical Features Distinct from KS In CHARGE syndrome: • Square face • Cleft palate • Short, wide ear w/little or no • Congenital heart defects CHARGE syndrome CHD7 AD earlobe • Ocular coloboma • Prominent columella • Growth restriction • Broad nasal root In KS: fingertip pads In 22q11 deletion syndrome: • Short & narrow palpebral • Cleft palate fissures w/hooded eyelids 22q11.2 deletion See footnote 1. AD • Congenital heart defects • Bulbous nasal tip syndrome • Urinary tract anomalies • Small, C-shaped ears w/ overfolded
