Bookshelf_NBK62111
KEYWORDS: individuals, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, kabuki, pathogenic variant, kabuki syndrome, affected, growth, anomalies, related, testing, diagnosis, genetic, hearing


have difficulty feeding because of poor oral motor control. Social/Behavioral Concerns Children may qualify for and benefit from interventions used in treatment of autism spectrum disorder, including applied behavior analysis (ABA). ABA therapy is targeted to the individual child's behavioral, social, and adaptive strengths and weaknesses and is typically performed one on one with a board-certified behavior analyst. Consultation with a developmental pediatrician may be helpful in guiding parents through appropriate behavior management strategies or providing prescription medications, such as medication used to treat ADHD, when necessary. Surveillance Table 5. Kabuki Syndrome: Recommended Surveillance System/Concern Evaluation Frequency Growth Measurement of at least height & weight 1 At each appointment Ophthalmologic Ophthalmology or optometry to assess vision At least annually Hearing Hearing assessment Musculoskeletal Clinical eval for scoliosis At each appointment until skeletal maturity Endocrinologic Thyroid function tests Every 2-3 yrs Immunologic Assessment of complete blood count Miscellaneous/ Monitor developmental progress & educational needs. At each visit during childhood & adolescence Other 1. Adolescents and adults may develop obesity. Agents/Circumstances to Avoid In those with joint laxity, activities that increase the risk of joint damage (e.g., bouncing on a trampoline) should be avoided. Evaluation of Relatives at Risk See Genetic Counseling for issues related to testing of at-risk relatives for genetic counseling purposes. Therapies Under Investigation Based on the function of KMT2D and KDM6A as regulators of chromatin expression (see Molecular Genetics), it has been hypothesized that histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) could have a beneficial effect on individuals with Kabuki syndrome. Bjornsson et al created a mouse model of KS and found that treatment with HDACi normalized the structural and functional differences seen in certain brain areas in these 18 GeneReviews ® affected mice, leading to improved neurogenesis and memory. This has yet to be tested in humans with KS, but clinical trials based on these mouse studies are in the planning phase. Since ketosis acts as an endogenous HDACi, others have hypothesized that placing individuals with KS on a ketogenic diet could improve their cognitive issues [Benjamin et al 2017]. This is NOT currently a recommended treatment for KS, although some families and physicians have trialed this diet independently. Since the ketogenic treatments are available in the peer-reviewed literature. Search ClinicalTrials.gov in the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for access to information on clinical studies for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Note: There may not
