Bookshelf_NBK62111
KEYWORDS: individuals, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, kabuki, pathogenic variant, kabuki syndrome, affected, growth, anomalies, related, testing, diagnosis, genetic, hearing


ClinicalTrials.gov in the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for access to information on clinical studies for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Note: There may not be clinical trials for this disorder. Genetic Counseling Mode of Inheritance KMT2D-related Kabuki syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. KDM6A-related Kabuki syndrome is inherited in an X-linked manner. Autosomal Dominant Inheritance – Risk to Family Members Parents of a proband • A minority of individuals diagnosed with KMT2D-related KS have an affected parent. • A proband with KMT2D-related KS may have the disorder as the result of a de novo pathogenic variant. Because simplex cases (i.e., a single occurrence in a family) have not been evaluated sufficiently to determine if the pathogenic variant was de novo, the proportion of KMT2D-related KS caused by a de related KS caused by a de novo variant is likely high. • Recommended evaluations for the parents of a proband include: ⚬ Molecular genetic testing if the pathogenic variant in the proband has been identified. If the pathogenic variant found in the proband cannot be detected in the leukocyte DNA of either parent, possible explanations include a de novo pathogenic variant in the proband or germline mosaicism in a parent. Although no instances of germline mosaicism have been reported, it remains a possibility. phenotypic features consistent with KS. • Evaluation of parents may determine that one is affected but has escaped previous diagnosis because of a milder phenotypic presentation. Therefore, an apparently negative family history cannot be confirmed until appropriate evaluations have been performed. • Note: If the parent is the individual in whom the pathogenic variant first occurred, the parent may have somatic mosaicism for the variant and may be mildly/minimally affected [Banka et al 2013, Lepri et al 2017]. Sibs of a proband • The risk to the sibs of the proband depends on the genetic status of the proband's parents. ⚬ If a parent of the proband is affected, the risk to the sibs is 50%. Kabuki Syndrome 19 ⚬ If the KMT2D pathogenic variant found in the proband cannot be detected in the leukocyte DNA of either parent, the risk to sibs is presumed to be slightly greater than that of the general population (though still <1%) because of the theoretic possibility of parental germline mosaicism. • If both parents are clinically unaffected but have not been tested for
