Bookshelf_NBK62111
KEYWORDS: individuals, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, kabuki, pathogenic variant, kabuki syndrome, affected, growth, anomalies, related, testing, diagnosis, genetic, hearing


that of the general population (though still <1%) because of the theoretic possibility of parental germline mosaicism. • If both parents are clinically unaffected but have not been tested for the KMT2D pathogenic variant (or molecular genetic testing is not appropriate because a pathogenic variant has not been identified in the proband), the risk to the sibs of a proband appears to be low. Offspring of a proband. Each child of an individual with KMT2D-related Kabuki syndrome has a 50% chance of inheriting the pathogenic variant. Other family members. The risk to other family members depends on the status of the proband's parents: if a parent is affected, the parent's family members may be at risk. X-Linked Inheritance – Risk to Family Members Parents of a male proband • The father of an affected male will not have the disorder nor will he be hemizygous for the KDM6A pathogenic variant; therefore, he does not require further evaluation/testing. • In a family with more than one affected individual, the mother of an affected male is an obligate heterozygote. Note: If a woman has more than one affected child and no other affected relatives and if the KDM6A pathogenic variant cannot be detected in her leukocyte DNA, she most likely has germline mosaicism. • If a male is the only affected family member (i.e., a simplex case), the mother may be a heterozygote or the affected male may have a de novo KDM6A pathogenic variant, in which case the mother is not a heterozygote. About 80% of affected males represent simplex cases [Bögershausen et al 2016]. Sibs of a male proband. The risk to sibs depends on the genetic status of the mother: • If the mother of the proband has a KDM6A pathogenic variant, the chance of transmitting it in each pregnancy is 50%. Males who inherit the pathogenic variant will be affected; females who inherit the pathogenic variant will be heterozygotes and may have features of KS, although features in females tend to be milder than those in males (see Phenotype Correlations by Gene). • If the proband represents a simplex case (i.e., a single occurrence in a family) and if the KDM6A pathogenic variant cannot be detected in the leukocyte DNA of the mother, the risk to sibs is slightly greater than that of the general population (though still <1%) because of the possibility of maternal germline mosaicism. Offspring
