Bookshelf_NBK62111
KEYWORDS: individuals, pathogenic, syndrome, variant, kabuki, pathogenic variant, kabuki syndrome, affected, growth, anomalies, related, testing, diagnosis, genetic, hearing


leukocyte DNA of the mother, the risk to sibs is slightly greater than that of the general population (though still <1%) because of the possibility of maternal germline mosaicism. Offspring of a male proband. Because of the small number of affected males and the relatively recent identification of KDM6A as a gene implicated in KS, no reports in the literature have described an affected male who has reproduced. Other family members. The proband's maternal aunts may be at risk of being heterozygotes for the pathogenic variant and the aunts' offspring, depending on their sex, may be at risk of being heterozygotes (carriers) for the pathogenic variant and/or being affected. Heterozygote detection. Molecular genetic testing of at-risk female relatives to determine their genetic status is most informative if the pathogenic variant has been identified in the proband. Note: Females who are heterozygous for this X-linked disorder can have a range of clinical manifestations (see Phenotype Correlations by Gene). 20 GeneReviews ® Related Genetic Counseling Issues Considerations in families with an apparent de novo pathogenic variant. When neither parent of a proband with an autosomal dominant condition has the pathogenic variant identified in the proband or clinical evidence of the disorder, the pathogenic variant is likely de novo. However, non-medical explanations including alternate paternity or maternity (e.g., with assisted reproduction) and undisclosed adoption could also be explored. Family planning • The optimal time for determination of genetic risk, clarification of genetic status, and discussion of the availability of prenatal/preimplantation genetic testing is before pregnancy. • It is appropriate to offer genetic counseling (including discussion of potential risks to offspring and reproductive options) to young adults who are affected or are carriers. DNA banking. Because it is likely that testing methodology and our understanding of genes, pathogenic mechanisms, and diseases will improve in the future, consideration should be given to banking DNA from probands in whom a molecular diagnosis has not been confirmed (i.e., the causative pathogenic mechanism is unknown). For more information, see Huang et al . Prenatal Testing and Preimplantation Genetic Testing Once the pathogenic variant has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing for Kabuki syndrome are possible. Resources • All Things Kabuki www.allthingskabuki.org • Kabuki Syndrome Foundation Northbrook IL 60065 Email: www.kabukisyndromefoundation.org • SAKKS: Supporting Aussie Kids with Kabuki Syndrome Email: www.sakks.org Molecular Genetics Information in the Molecular Genetics and OMIM tables may differ
