Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


it is expected to be at its nadir. Alternatively, one could test cortisol’s response to suppression with dexamethasone. The American Endocrine Society Clinical Guidelines recommend one of the following tests for the initial CS testing: at least two measurements of urinary-free cortisol (UFC), two measurements of late night salivary cortisol (LNSC), 1 mg overnight dexamethasone suppression test (DST) or a longer low-dose DST ( 1 ). Cortisol measurement (serum, UFC or salivary) is the end point for each recommended test. Despite recent literature reports describing utility of direct salivary and urine cortisol measurements in CS diagnosis ( 2 - 4 ), most clinicians prefer provocative testing due to the variable nature of cortisol and ACTH secretion in normal physiological states. Cortisol is secreted under the direction of ACTH and follows a diurnal variation, with peak values at 08:00 h and a nadir at 22:00 h. In CS, diurnal variation is lost and PM cortisol level is inappropriately elevated. Superimposed on this diurnal pattern are 8-10 pulsatile peaks released during the course of a 24-hour period. Therefore, depending on the instance when blood is sampled, there can be significant variation in the absolute values of ACTH and serum cortisol. Due to this variability of cortisol and ACTH levels, it may be challenging to distinguish pituitary-dependent Cushing’s disease from pseudo-Cushing’s states. Cunningham et al conducted a study where blood was sampled and cortisol measured every 20 to 30 minutes for 24 hours. The group demonstrated that both circadian and pulse amplitudes of cortisol secretion were decreased in Cushing’s disease ( 5 ). This section provides and overview of methodologies commonly used in clinical laboratories for direct determinations of cortisol and ACTH, regardless of whether they are a part of a provocative testing series or direct, non-stimulated hormone assessment. Cortisol Methods currently available for measuring serum cortisol levels include automated immunoassays and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). CORTISOL IMMUNOASSAYS (TOTAL CORTISOL) Cortisol immunoassays are widely available, have been in use for a long time, and automated methods provide high throughput with minimal manual sample manipulations. Virtually all immunoassay methods are based on the competitive binding principle, where cortisol from the patient sample and exogenous, labeled cortisol compete for the binding sites available on the anti-cortisol antibody. The major difference between the assays is in the label design and chemistry enabling antibody-antigen binding. All currently available cortisol methods have limit of detection below 1
