Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


the anti-cortisol antibody. The major difference between the assays is in the label design and chemistry enabling antibody-antigen binding. All currently available cortisol methods have limit of detection below 1 µg/dL, providing sufficient sensitivity to support interpretation of CS dynamic testing results. A widely recognized disadvantage of immunoassays is a potential of interferences from auto-, anti-animal or heterophilic antibodies. In addition, the older generations of cortisol assays had significant cross-reactivity with other steroids, such as 6-β-hydroxycortisol or prednisolone, due to the use of less specific polyclonal antibody in the assay formulation. However, the majority of current immunoassay methods have transitioned to a more specific monoclonal antibody format, minimizing or eliminating cross-reactivity with other steroids. It should also be noted that some immunoassay vendors use biotinylated antibodies in their assay design. In these instances, biotin may interfere with the assay, causing spuriously elevated cortisol measurement. The presence and magnitude of interference is vendor-specific and the potential of biotin interference should be checked with the laboratory that performs the testing. In general, none of the assays manufactured by Abbott use biotin in reagent formulation, while all assays manufactured by Roche do. The Roche cortisol assay should not be used to measure serum cortisol in a patient taking daily doses of biotin exceeding 5 mg, unless blood is obtained at least 8 hours following the last biotin ingestion. LC-MS/MS CORTISOL ASSAYS The LC-MS/MS assays utilize liquid chromatography to separate cortisol from other serum/plasma components and tandem mass spectrometry to detect and quantify compounds of interest. LC-MS/MS based methods offer superior analytical sensitivity and specificity over immunoassays. Serum Free Cortisol In conditions where CBG concentrations are affected, such as pregnancy or critical illness for example, total serum cortisol may not always reflect the true pituitary-adrenal status. In these cases, assessment of serum free cortisol is preferred. Free serum cortisol concentration are directly measured by separating free serum cortisol fraction using equilibrium dialysis ( 6 ) or ultrafiltration ( 7 , 8 ) followed by cortisol determination, usually performed using LC-MS/MS method. Alternatively, free serum cortisol can be estimated by calculating the ratio of serum cortisol and CBG to obtain serum cortisol index ( 6 ). Although not affected by CBG levels, free cortisol is also secreted in episodic fashion and thus not much more useful than random total serum cortisol levels in assessment of HPA axis functionality. Urinary Free Cortisol Cortisol is excreted in
