Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


also secreted in episodic fashion and thus not much more useful than random total serum cortisol levels in assessment of HPA axis functionality. Urinary Free Cortisol Cortisol is excreted in urine in an unbound (free) form and, like free serum cortisol is unaffected by fluctuations in CBG levels. Properly collected 24-hour urine specimens can be used to eliminate fluctuations that would affect serum cortisol levels, due to the pulsatile nature of its release. Therefore, measurement of UFC from 24 hour urine collections has become a valuable diagnostic tool for evaluation of adrenal cortical function and it is one of the first line tests recommended for CS diagnostic testing ( 1 ). In the unstressed patient, with normal renal function, elevation of UFC in 24-hour urine specimen is usually sufficient to diagnose CS. A normal result is strong evidence against that diagnosis. Although this test has long been used, its utility in CS diagnosis still remains somewhat controversial. Studies show wide variability in clinical utility of UFC for diagnosis of CS with clinical sensitivity ranging from 53% to over 90% and specificity ranging from 79% to 90% ( 2 , 3 , 9 ). These differences are due to differences in study design, cut-off, and methodology used. Furthermore, in a careful study of normal subjects de Boss Kuil et al found that urinary excretion of free cortisol can differ by as much as 50% between the two consecutive urine collections, while the creatinine values can differ by as much as five-fold ( 10 ). Since the ratio of free cortisol/creatinine also varies considerably (range 1.0-3.7; median 1.3), intra-variation in urinary cortisol excretion could not be attributed to variation in creatinine excretion. In addition to biological variation, other factors include difficulty in over or under collection of urine. Given such wide discrepancies in reported clinical sensitivity and specificity of UFC measurements and significant intra-individual UFC variability, this test may not be an ideal choice for initial screening of CS. Methodology used for UFC quantitation is the same as for serum cortisol. In terms of specimen collection, an 8:00 AM to the following day’s 8:00 AM collection is desirable. Samples should be refrigerated during collection and, while preservatives are not required, boric acid is usually acceptable. Quantitation of urine cortisol with a more sensitive and specific LC-MS/MS method is generally preferred over immunoassays. Typically, all the LC-MS/MS UFC assays involve a sample pretreatment
