Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


is usually acceptable. Quantitation of urine cortisol with a more sensitive and specific LC-MS/MS method is generally preferred over immunoassays. Typically, all the LC-MS/MS UFC assays involve a sample pretreatment with an organic solvent which removes the interfering substances. However, some UFC assays immunoassays either do not include this pretreatment step or offer it as an optional step to the user. As a result, UFC reference ranges vary widely between the assay manufacturers, methodologies, and different laboratories. To increase sensitivity, it is recommended that the upper limit of normal for any UFC assay be used as a positive test ( 5 ). It would be thus incorrect to make a diagnosis of adrenal insufficiency relying solely on 24-hour urine collections. Salivary Cortisol Late-night (23:00-24:00 h) salivary cortisol (LNSC) is one of the first line tests used to screen for CS. Most studies report high diagnostic sensitivity of this test (80-90%), but there are discrepancies in reported specificities (70-90%), resulting mostly from difference in methodologies and populations studied ( 2 , 3 , 11 - 13 ) Interestingly, mass spectrometry assays demonstrate high sensitivity, but low specificity (75%) for the diagnosis of CS ( 11 ). One potential explanation, as postulated by Raff, is that higher analytical specificity of mass spectrometry actually leads to lower diagnostic specificity, suggesting that cortisol metabolites and precursors picked up by immunoassays may be diagnostically relevant ( 14 ). Kannankeril et al recently reported that LNSC has excellent negative predictive value (99.8%) but poor positive predictive value (16.8%) for diagnosis of ACTH-dependent CS ( 12 ). Thus, a negative LNSC can be used to rule out ACTH-dependent CS, but complementary tests of adrenal function are needed to establish the diagnosis. Salivary cortisol concentration is not dependent on CBG and could therefore be useful during an ACTH stimulation testing in patients with increased CBG concentrations due to increased estrogen or decreased plasma binding globulins due to critical illness. Similar to UFC, the assay methodology remains the same as serum cortisol with the differences in specimen collection. ACTH ACTH measurements, while subject to the same circadian variability as cortisol (actually it is the variability of the ACTH that is directly responsible for the variability of the cortisol), are not subject to the effects of CBG. Values of ACTH > 100 pg/ml in the setting of possible adrenal insufficiency are usually suggestive of primary adrenal insufficiency, while values >500
