Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


not subject to the effects of CBG. Values of ACTH > 100 pg/ml in the setting of possible adrenal insufficiency are usually suggestive of primary adrenal insufficiency, while values >500 pg/ml are diagnostic. Low concentrations of plasma ACTH are not diagnostic, except for the undetectable levels observed in patients with cortisol producing adrenal adenomas. Plasma ACTH concentration is also low in patients taking exogenous steroids. Unlike widely available cortisol assays, the availability of clinical ACTH assays is limited. All currently available methods are immunoassays based on the “sandwich” principle, where two antibodies that recognize different ACTH epitopes are utilized. The first antibody, designated as capture antibody, detects one specific site on ACTH molecule and is used to pull the antigen from the patient’s plasma. The second antibody that detects a different ACTH epitope is then used to “sandwich” the antigen and generate a signal. As is the case with any immunoassay, ACTH assays are susceptible to heterophilic antibody interferences. Several cases have been described in literature where aberrant, falsely elevated ACTH results were inconsistent with clinical picture and lead to unnecessary testing, misdiagnosis, and in some cases surgical interventions. These cases emphasize the importance of interaction between clinicians and the laboratory to identify any interference present and ensure that each patient is appropriately managed ( 15 , 16 ). In addition, just as is the case with cortisol immunoassays, some vendors use biotinylated antibodies in the capture antibody design. Unlike cortisol, however, biotin interference may result in falsely decreased ACTH levels. The two most commonly used ACTH assays are manufactured by Siemens and Roche. Siemens ACTH assay is not affected by biotin, while the recommendation for Roche ACTH assay is not to use the test in patients ingesting >5 mg biotin daily, unless at least 8 hours had elapsed following the last biotin dose (cf. Roche Elecsys ACTH Package Insert V 12.0, 2020-11). The preferred specimen for ACTH is EDTA plasma. ACTH is heat labile, and if not collected and preserved on ice, will lead to proteolysis, which can reduce the plasma concentration leading to falsely lower values. Miscellaneous Non-Stimulated Measurements CORTISOL BINDING GLOBULIN (CBG) As mentioned earlier, the majority of cortisol (~92%) is bound to CBG, a serum protein. CBG levels increase in pregnancy and patients on oral contraceptives or supplemental estrogen. CBG is decreased in hyperinsulinemic states, nephrotic syndrome, starvation, severe illness, and chronic liver disease. This test
