Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


CBG levels increase in pregnancy and patients on oral contraceptives or supplemental estrogen. CBG is decreased in hyperinsulinemic states, nephrotic syndrome, starvation, severe illness, and chronic liver disease. This test is useful for the assessment of unexpected serum cortisol values. It is offered by large reference laboratories and uses a radioimmunoassay method. 11-DEOXYCORTISOL (COMPOUND S) This is the immediate precursor of cortisol and is typically increased when ACTH is elevated or in 11 beta-hydroxylase deficiency. The method for 11-deoxycortisol measurement is now available by LC-MS/MS technology and is offered by most reference laboratories. ANTI-ADRENAL ANTIBODIES The measurement of anti-adrenal antibodies has been suggested to be useful in detecting early evidence of adrenal insufficiency, before cortisol values are decreased even in response to stimuli. The only test currently clinically available is a test that detects 21-hydroxylase autoantibodies, which are present in the common autoimmune form of Addison’s disease ( 17 ). This test is offered by major reference laboratories and is based on the radioimmunoassay format. CORTICOTROPHIN RELEASING HORMONE (CRH) Serum concentration of CRH is markedly elevated in pregnancy, presumably due to the production of CRH by the placenta. High levels are associated with high levels of CRH binding protein. Although mentioned as useful in the diagnosis of ectopic CRH syndromes, little data is available in this regard. CRH testing is not commonly done and we have not been able to find a commercial laboratory that is currently performing this test. DYNAMIC TESTING Glucocorticoid Deficiency Adrenal insufficiency is a life-threatening disorder and prompt diagnosis is important because adequate hormonal replacement therapy can be lifesaving. Despite that more than 35 years have elapsed since the initial description of the use of the insulin tolerance test (ITT) to diagnose adrenocortical deficiency ( 18 ), and more than 200 scientific publications in this area, clinicians today still argue as to which is the most sensitive and specific test to diagnose adrenocortical deficiency. The ITT is still regarded as the gold standard upon which to compare all other tests of HPA axis function. Unfortunately, this test has a considerable spectrum of intra-individual and inter-individual variation ( 19 , 20 ). Therefore, when comparing other tests to the "gold standard", if the standard is not reliable, how can one determine the effectiveness of the other forms of testing? The problem lies in the ability of a single laboratory to know what the values are for their
