Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


how can one determine the effectiveness of the other forms of testing? The problem lies in the ability of a single laboratory to know what the values are for their tests. Therefore, ranges from an ITT test response in normal subjects performed in one laboratory may not be normal for another laboratory. Taking this into account there are some general guidelines that are available for evaluating patients with suspected adrenal insufficiency. PRIMARY ADRENAL INSUFFICIENCY High Dose ACTH Stimulation Test WHEN TO USE THIS TEST: Patients acutely ill in the hospital or clinic who present with signs and symptoms suggestive of primary adrenal insufficiency. Patients who are thermodynamically unstable should be resuscitated with crystalloids and given dexamethasone prior to testing if the diagnosis of primary adrenal insufficiency is being considered. PROCEDURE: An intravenous (IV) line is placed 30 minutes before the test for rapid phlebotomy and to eliminate a temporary rise in cortisol associated with a needle stick. The IV line is to be kept open with 0.9% sodium chloride (NaCl) at a rate of 50 ml/hr. Blood is drawn at 0 min for ACTH (2 ml in a lavender top tube on ice) and cortisol (2 ml in a red top tube). Cosyntropin, 0.25 mg is administered as an IV bolus over 2 minutes. The cosyntropin comes as a lyophilized powder which should be reconstituted with 1 ml of 0.9% NaCl. Thirty min after the injection, blood is obtained from the IV line (2 ml) for cortisol. The same is repeated at 60 min (2 ml) for cortisol. SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS: The test can be performed at any time of the day. If the patient is receiving hydrocortisone or cortisone acetate, the medication should be held for at least 12 hours prior to testing (if possible). Although the test can be performed while the patient is receiving dexamethasone, there is some cross-reactivity in some assays and cortisol levels may not be accurate. Each laboratory should determine for itself, the effect of dexamethasone on their assay. Patients with known sensitivity to cosyntropin or its preservatives should not have it administered. Oral estrogen use may result in elevation of the total serum cortisol level due to increased corticosteroid binding globulin ( 21 ). Patients with albumin <2.5 g/dL may also have a low cortisol level ( 21 , 22 ). CONTRAINDICATIONS: Hypersensitivity to cosyntropin or any component of the formulation. WARNINGS / PRECAUTIONS:
