Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


Patients with albumin <2.5 g/dL may also have a low cortisol level ( 21 , 22 ). CONTRAINDICATIONS: Hypersensitivity to cosyntropin or any component of the formulation. WARNINGS / PRECAUTIONS: Use with caution in patients with pre-existing allergic disease or a history of allergic reactions to corticotropin. Class C in pregnancy. ADVERSE REACTIONS 1% to 10%: Cardiovascular: Flushing. Central nervous system: Mild fever. Dermatologic: Pruritus. Gastrointestinal: Chronic pancreatitis. <1%: Hypersensitivity reactions DRUG INTERACTIONS: Decreased effect: May decrease the effect of anticholinesterases in patients with myasthenia gravis; nondepolarizing neuromuscular blockers, phenytoin and barbiturates may decrease effect of cosyntropin INTERPRETATION OF RESULTS: Baseline cortisol values <5 µg/dl and ACTH concentrations >100 pg/ml are usually diagnostic of primary adrenal insufficiency. The normal peak cortisol value post stimulation should be an increment no less than 7µg/dl. A peak stimulated cortisol value of >18 µg/dl at 30 min is considered normal. Since 37% of subjects had a peak response to cosyntropin at 30 min and 63% had a peak response at 60 min, both time points are analyzed in all patients and if either the 30 min or 60 min sample reaches the criteria as noted above, the test is considered normal ( 23 ). However, there is some suggestion that new generation cortisol assays may have different cutoff values, but these have not been verified ( 24 ). Free cortisol, instead of total cortisol can be measured using a value of >1.2 µg/dl at 30 or 60 min as a normal result. This can be indicated in patient with albumin levels <2.5 g/dL or those with low cortisol binding globulin. Serum aldosterone can be measured in 0 min, 30 min and 60 min blood samples as ACTH stimulation of the adrenal cortex will also stimulate aldosterone. It has been suggested that a normal aldosterone response to ACTH in the presence of a suboptimal cortisol response is diagnostic of secondary adrenal insufficiency ( 25 ). Low dose ACTH stimulation Test WHEN TO USE THIS TEST: Patients with subtle signs of adrenal insufficiency or patients who have been treated with glucocorticoids in whom determination of adrenal reserve is necessary. Patients who have autoimmune disease and may have early adrenocortical insufficiency may be best assessed with this test. PROCEDURE: An intravenous line is placed 30 minutes before the test for rapid phlebotomy and to eliminate a temporary rise in cortisol associated with a needle stick. The IV
