Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


test. PROCEDURE: An intravenous line is placed 30 minutes before the test for rapid phlebotomy and to eliminate a temporary rise in cortisol associated with a needle stick. The IV line is to be kept open with 0.9% NaCl at a rate of 50 ml/hr. Blood is drawn at 0 min for ACTH (2 ml in a lavender top tube on ice) and cortisol (2 ml in a red top tube). Cosyntropin, 1 µg is administered as an IV bolus over 2 minutes. The injection material was prepared according to the method of Dickstein as follows: The cosyntropin was diluted with 50 ml of sterile saline to a stock concentration of 5 µg/ml. Aliquots of 0.2 ml were added into sterile plastic tubes and kept at 4 o C for a maximum of 4 months ( 26 ). Immediately prior to testing 0.8 ml of saline is added to the tube (final dilution 1 µg/ml) and 1 ml is injected into the patient. Thirty min after the injection blood is obtained from the IV line (2 ml) for cortisol. The same is repeated at 60 min (2 ml) for cortisol. SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS: Same as for high dose ACTH stimulation test, see above. INTERPRETATION OF RESULTS: This test was originally developed to be more sensitive for diagnosing secondary adrenal insufficiency because it was more of a "physiologic" dose. It is much better at diagnosing secondary adrenal insufficiency than the high dose, although it is not at all recommended in acute or recent hypopituitarism when the intact adrenal glands can still respond normally to any dose of ACTH. Although probably not useful for the initial purpose of secondary adrenal insufficiency, it may be more sensitive at distinguishing milder forms of primary adrenal insufficiency ( 27 ). Furthermore, this low dose test was helpful in identifying mild adrenal suppression in asthmatic children being treated with inhaled steroids ( 28 ). As noted above, each laboratory should establish their normal values, however in general, a stimulated value at 30 or 60 min greater than 20 µg/dl would be considered normal. A meta-analysis of 30 studies enrolling 1209 adults and 228 children with secondary adrenal insufficiency, evaluating the diagnostic accuracy of high and low dose ACTH stimulation concluded that they have similar diagnostic accuracy. They are both adequate to rule in, but not rule out, secondary adrenal insufficiency ( 29 ). SECONDARY ADRENAL INSUFFICIENCY (PITUITARY
