Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


ACTH stimulation concluded that they have similar diagnostic accuracy. They are both adequate to rule in, but not rule out, secondary adrenal insufficiency ( 29 ). SECONDARY ADRENAL INSUFFICIENCY (PITUITARY OR HYPOTHALAMIC) Insulin Tolerance Testing (ITT) WHEN TO USE THIS TEST: Patients in whom pituitary or hypothalamic disease may result in impaired corticotroph (or somatotroph) activity. Patients following pituitary surgery or pituitary radiation can be tested at any time, unlike the ACTH stimulation tests described above which are not useful in the acute setting. A random serum cortisol should be drawn prior to scheduling the test if the value is > 20 µg/dl, the test may not be necessary This test, can be performed in the outpatient clinic, however while relatively safe it requires a trained endocrine registered nurse to be present with the patient during the course of the test. PROCEDURE: A 50 ml vial of 50% Dextrose should be at the patient's bedside in a syringe ready for injection before beginning the procedure. An intravenous line is placed 30 minutes before the test for rapid phlebotomy, to eliminate a temporary rise in cortisol associated with a needle stick, and in order to have IV access for 50% Dextrose in the event of severe hypoglycemia. The IV line is to be kept open with 0.9% NaCl at a rate of 50 ml/hr. Blood is drawn at 0' for cortisol (2 ml in a red top tube) and glucose (1 ml in a gray top tube). Blood glucose is also checked at the bedside with a glucose monitor. Regular (short acting) insulin is administered as an IV bolus at a dose of 0.1 units/kg. Blood is sampled for cortisol and glucose as noted above at 10min, 15min, 30min, 45min, 60min, 90min and 120min. A bedside nurse should monitor the blood glucose more frequently if glucose drops below 60 mg/dl on the glucometer or if the patient complains of neuroglycopenic symptoms, such as fatigue, diaphoresis, hunger, lightheadedness, or nausea. The test should continue until the blood glucose concentration drops below 40 mg/dl. In patients with diabetes on insulin, consideration should be given that they may be insulin resistant. In which case, larger doses of insulin may be given. We usually begin with a single bolus of 0.1 U/kg and then re-bolus with insulin depending on the response to the initial dose (either give the same dose again if there was some
