Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


with a single bolus of 0.1 U/kg and then re-bolus with insulin depending on the response to the initial dose (either give the same dose again if there was some response but insufficient, or double the dose if there was only minimal response to blood glucose, or give half the dose if the hypoglycemic response was close to the desired goal). This can be repeated several times until adequate hypoglycemia is reached. Once the response goal of a glucose < 40 mg/dl is reached, patients can be fed a meal such as crackers and orange juice. Blood glucose should be checked at 5min, 10min and 15min post feeding. If there is no increase in glucose or a clinical response within 5min, intravenous glucose should be administered. If no response, then a repeat bolus of glucose is suggested. If no response or IV access is lost, glucagon 1 mg intramuscular can be given. SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS: The test can be performed at any time of the day, although due to the need for patients to be fasting it is most conveniently done in the morning. If the patient is receiving hydrocortisone or cortisone acetate, the medication should be held for at least 12 hours prior to testing (if possible). Unlike the ACTH stimulation tests, the ITT cannot be performed while the patient is receiving dexamethasone, due to suppression of the hypothalamic pathways necessary to respond to hypoglycemia. In general ITT is not recommended in patients with uncontrolled seizure disorder or significant coronary artery disease. In order to determine if the level of dysfunction is at the hypothalamus or at the pituitary this test is sometimes used in addition to the CRH stimulation test. When the ITT fails to stimulate cortisol, but the CRH test does stimulate it is likely that the patient is having hypothalamic dysfunction. INTERPRETATION OF RESULTS: Serum cortisol should increase within 30 min of the hypoglycemic response to > 20 µg/dl. If the serum cortisol at baseline is 18 ug/dl the test may not be diagnostic. If the baseline serum cortisol is higher than 19 µg, adrenal insufficiency is unlikely. Although the response of cortisol is more reproducible than that of growth hormone in the ITT, intra-subject differences have been reported ( 20 , 30 ). Metyrapone Testing WHEN TO USE THIS TEST: This test is perhaps the most sensitive to determine whether the HPA axis is intact. Although
