Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


been reported ( 20 , 30 ). Metyrapone Testing WHEN TO USE THIS TEST: This test is perhaps the most sensitive to determine whether the HPA axis is intact. Although metyrapone is not generally available from your neighborhood pharmacy, it can be obtained by calling Novartis Pharmaceutical Corp. at 1-800-988-7768 on weekdays. Metyrapone blocks 11-β hydroxylase and results in the inhibition of conversion of 11-deoxycortisol to cortisol. Serum levels of cortisol decrease and concentration of 11-deoxycortisol increases, however 11-deoxycortisol does not down regulate ACTH. Therefore, in a normally functioning HPA axis there is an increase in 11-deoxycortisol. This metabolite can be directly measured in the serum or measured in the urine as 17-OH corticosteroids. This test can help differentiate primary adrenal deficiency from ACTH deficiency. It has a similar diagnostic performance to the ITT and it’s a potential alternative when there is a contraindication to ITT. PROCEDURE: For assessment of adrenal or pituitary insufficiency the test can be performed as an overnight test. Metyrapone is given orally (30 mg/kg body weight, or 2 grams for <70 kg, 2.5 grams for 70 to 90 kg, and 3 grams for >90 kg body weight) at midnight with a glass of milk or a small snack ( 24 ). Serum 11-deoxycortisol and cortisol are measured at 8 AM the next morning; it is also recommended to measure plasma ACTH levels ( 31 ). SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS: The concurrent use of glucocorticoids will interfere with the test. Any medications that the patient is taking which increase the P450 enzymes will increase the metabolism and clearance of metyrapone (such as rifampin, phenobarbital, and phenytoin) ( 32 ). Similarly, hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism will affect clearance of metyrapone and the adrenal responsiveness. Therefore, thyroid function tests should be measured prior to performing this test. Measurement of 11-deoxycortisol, like cortisol itself is dependent on CBG and drugs such as estrogens and oral contraceptives will falsely increase the concentrations of 11-deoxycortisol ( 33 ). PREGNANCY IMPLICATIONS - Use during pregnancy only if clearly needed. Subnormal response may occur in pregnant women and the fetal pituitary may be affected. LACTATION - Excretion in breast milk unknown/use caution ADVERSE REACTIONS - Frequency not defined. Central nervous system: Headache, dizziness, sedation. Dermatologic: Allergic rash. Gastrointestinal: Nausea, vomiting, abdominal discomfort or pain. Hematologic: Rarely, decreased white blood cell count or bone marrow suppression. INTERPRETATION OF RESULTS: 8 AM serum 11-deoxycortisol concentrations should be >7
