Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


determine whether there is abnormal metabolism of the dexamethasone, serum levels of dexamethasone can be measured. However, this is not a common diagnostic test. Testing can be done by specialized laboratories, such as Esoterix inc. CA. The principle of the assay is RIA after chromatographic sample separation and requires 1 ml of serum sample. All these tests require significant patient participation as the patients are required to self-administer the dexamethasone at inconvenient hours of the day (11PM) or up to 4 times a day. Sampling requires either collection of urine for 24 hours or coming to the physician's office at 8 AM for multiple blood sampling. Drugs that induce hepatic cytochrome P-450 enzymes, such as barbiturates, phenytoin, rifampin, and aminoglutethimide, increase the metabolism of dexamethasone and other steroids. Measurement of serum dexamethasone a few hours after the last dose will help determine if there is abnormal metabolism. All these caveats are in addition to the other problems associated with measurement of cortisol as noted above, including the variable diurnal variation as well as interference with concurrent administration of glucocorticoids, estrogen, or other medications that increase cortisol binding globulin. A popular screening test for confirming hypercortisolism is the overnight 1 mg dexamethasone. A single dose of 1 mg is administered (or 0.3 mg/Kg for children ( 34 ) at 11PM and blood is obtained by 8 AM the following morning. The dexamethasone dose is given prior to the diurnal rise in endogenous ACTH release and therefore suppresses the early AM cortisol. A normal response would be a serum cortisol concentration of <1.8 mcg/dl, alternatively a cut point of < 5 µg/dl can be used which will yield more specificity with less sensitivity. If cortisol is >10 µg/dl the likelihood of hypercortisolism is high. The other dexamethasone suppression tests are reviewed in Table VIII. Patients with corticotroph macroadenomas or very active tumors, may have urine free cortisol in excess of 1000 µg/dl which will require higher doses of dexamethasone to confirm suppressibility and/or rule out ectopic ACTH production ( 36 ). The two- day low dose dexamethasone suppression test can be used to differentiate Cushing’s syndrome from pseudo-Cushing’s which can present with many of the signs and symptoms associated with hypercortisolism in the setting of other clinical conditions such as depression, alcoholism, PCOS, obesity, and uncontrolled diabetes ( 37 , 38 ). Dexamethasone 0.5 mg is delivered orally Q6 hours for 48
