Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


the setting of other clinical conditions such as depression, alcoholism, PCOS, obesity, and uncontrolled diabetes ( 37 , 38 ). Dexamethasone 0.5 mg is delivered orally Q6 hours for 48 hours. Serum cortisol is measured 2 hours after the last dose and a cutoff level of <1.4 µg/dl is consistent with pseudo-Cushing’s. Measurement of 24 hour urine excretion of 17-hydroxycorticosteroid and creatinine during the administration of dexamethasone starting at 1200h, has also been suggested with a cut point of 11 umol/day or higher considered positive for Cushing’s syndrome ( 39 ). This test however, can misclassify as many as 15% of patients with Cushing’s syndrome and up to 15% of patients with pseudo Cushing’s. The overnight high dose dexamethasone suppression test can help differentiate Cushing’s disease from ectopic ACTH syndrome in patients with ACTH-dependent Cushing’s syndrome. The basis for this differentiation is the fact that ACTH secretion in Cushing’s disease is only relatively resistant to glucocorticoid negative feedback inhibition. Cortisol levels will not suppress normally with overnight 1 mg but will suppress with a higher dose of 8 mg of dexamethasone. Serum cortisol concentration at 8 AM is <5 µg/dL in most patients with Cushing’s disease and is usually undetectable in normal individuals. A more than 50% decrease in cortisol on the day after taking 8 mg dexamethasone supports a diagnosis of Cushing’s disease over ectopic ACTH production. In patients with non-ACTH dependent hypercortisolism, a lack of suppression of cortisol by more than 50% with a low normal ACTH level (5-20 pg/ml) suggests an adrenal etiology. CRH STIMULATION TEST WHEN TO USE THIS TEST: This test is one of the most sensitive to determine if there is an abnormality in the HPA axis and for diagnosing the etiology of hypercortisolism in ACTH dependent Cushing’s. Although CRH is expensive ($300), when one considers the cost of multiple urine collections and analyses of cortisol as well as the cost of a single MRI of the pituitary (which generally exceeds $1500), CRH is at least cost effective when one considers the overall expense in the evaluation of these patients. PROCEDURE: An intravenous line is placed 30 min before the test for rapid phlebotomy and to eliminate a temporary rise in cortisol associated with a needle stick. Blood is drawn at -15' and 0' for cortisol and ACTH (2 ml in a lavender top tube on ice). CRH is then injected IV at a
