Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


a needle stick. Blood is drawn at -15' and 0' for cortisol and ACTH (2 ml in a lavender top tube on ice). CRH is then injected IV at a dose of 1 µg/Kg up to a maximum of 200 µg. Blood is obtained at 15, 30, 60, 90, 120, 180 and 210 min for cortisol and ACTH (2 ml in a lavender top tube on ice). SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS: The test can be performed at any time of the day, although the initial studies describing the test have been done in the morning. Side effects: The patient may experience slight nausea, metallic taste, urgency to urinate, a change in blood pressure (either increase or decrease), a change in heart rate, headaches, abdominal discomfort, facial flushing, and lightheadedness. These side effects are mild and last for only few minutes. Category C in pregnancy. INTERPRETATION OF RESULTS: The mean ACTH concentrations at 15 and 30 min after CRH should increase by at least 35% above the mean basal value at -15 and 0 min in patients with Cushing's disease, but not in patients with ectopic ACTH secretion. This measure gave the best sensitivity (93%) and specificity (100%) ( 40 , 41 ). The best cortisol criterion was a mean increase at 30 and 45 min of 20% or more above mean basal values, which gave a sensitivity of 91% and a specificity of 88%. It should be noted that the criterion for Cushing's disease is based on the presence of hypercortisolism. The CRH test will not adequately differentiate subjects with pseudo-Cushing’s and those with true pituitary dependent Cushing's disease. CRH TEST WITH DEXAMETHSONE WHEN TO USE THIS TEST: Several investigators have found that modifications of the CRH stimulation test can increase further the sensitivity and specificity in the diagnosis of the etiology of Cushing's disease. While the simultaneous use of vasopressin can augment the response to CRH, dexamethasone can be used to suppress all but pathologic responses to CRH stimulation [33]. Without dexamethasone the sensitivity and specificity of the CRH test is 65 and 100%, respectively, while with dexamethasone the CRH test is 100% sensitive and specific. This test is also particularly useful to differentiate true Cushing’s from pseudo-Cushing’s state. PROCEDURE: Dexamethasone, 0.5 mg is self-administered orally by the patient every 6 hours for 2 days, at 6 AM, 12 Noon, 6 PM and midnight. On the morning of the 3rd day
