Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


0.5 mg is self-administered orally by the patient every 6 hours for 2 days, at 6 AM, 12 Noon, 6 PM and midnight. On the morning of the 3rd day an additional dose of dexamethasone is given at 6 AM. The patient arrives at the testing center by 8 AM and an intravenous line is placed 30 minutes before the test for rapid phlebotomy and to eliminate a temporary rise in cortisol associated with a needle stick. Blood is drawn at -15' and 0' for cortisol and ACTH (2 ml in a lavender top tube on ice). CRH is then injected IV at a dose of 1 µg/Kg up to a maximum of 200 µg. Blood is obtained at 15, 30 60, 90 120, 180 and 210 min for cortisol and ACTH (2 ml in a lavender top tube on ice). SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS: The test can be performed at any time of the day, although it is usually done in the morning. Side effects that the patient may experience are: slight nausea, metallic taste, urgency to urinate, a change in blood pressure (either increase or decrease), a change in heart rate, headaches, abdominal discomfort, facial flushing, and lightheadedness. These side effects are mild and last for only few minutes. Similar to the dexamethasone suppression test, the results should be interpreted with caution in patients taking estrogen therapy as they can present with falsely elevated cortisol levels due to an increase of cortisol-binding globulin. Drugs such as phenytoin, phenobarbitone, carbamazepine, rifampicin and alcohol induce hepatic enzymatic clearance of dexamethasone, mediated through CYP 3A4, thereby reducing the plasma concentration and may be associated with false positive results ( 42 ). INTERPRETATION OF RESULTS: A normal response would be a plasma cortisol concentration less than 1.3 µg/dl measured 15 minutes after the administration of CRH. Values of cortisol greater than 1.3 µg/dl correctly identified all cases of Cushing's syndrome and all cases of pseudo-Cushing's states (100% specificity, sensitivity, and diagnostic accuracy). While this is a general recommendation, each laboratory should confirm based on the sensitivity of the respective cortisol assay. Furthermore, it is important to confirm the serum level of dexamethasone at the time of the blood draw to assure patient compliance with the dexamethasone regimen. Patients with ectopic ACTH production will have non-suppressed cortisol and ACTH levels that are not stimulated by CRH. DDAVP STIMULATION TEST WHEN TO USE THIS TEST: This
