Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


the dexamethasone regimen. Patients with ectopic ACTH production will have non-suppressed cortisol and ACTH levels that are not stimulated by CRH. DDAVP STIMULATION TEST WHEN TO USE THIS TEST: This test can be used as part of the workup of ACTH dependent hypercortisolism. It can be used in addition to the CRH stimulation test as studies have shown that the combination of these two tests performs better than either of the tests separately. It can also be performed in lieu to the CRH test in situations in which CRH is not available. The aberrant expression of vasopressin V2 receptor in pituitary ACTH-secreting adenomas is the rationale for the use of the desmopressin test to differentiate corticotroph adenomas (which should respond to desmopressin injection) from ectopic ACTH secreting tumors or pseudo Cushing’s (which should not respond)( 43 - 45 ). PROCEDURE: An intravenous line is placed 30 minutes before the test for rapid phlebotomy and to eliminate a temporary rise in cortisol associated with a needle stick. Blood is drawn at -15' and 0' for cortisol and ACTH (2 ml in a lavender top tube on ice). DDAVP is then injected IV at a dose of 5 to 10 ug. Blood is obtained at 15, 30, 60, 90, 120, 180 and 210 minutes for cortisol and ACTH (2 ml in a lavender top tube on ice) ( 45 ). INTERPRETATION OF RESULTS: No definitive cutoff values have been standardized for the interpretation of this test. The published established criteria for this test have generally been based on studies with small series of subjects. Malerbi et al. proposed a cortisol increase over baseline of 12% to be consistent with diagnosis of Cushing’s disease ( 46 ). An absolute ACTH increase over baseline equal or greater than 6 pmol/L yielded higher sensitivity and specificity to differentiate Cushing’s disease from pseudo Cushing’s in a different study. Alternatively the criteria used for the CRH stimulation test can be used in the interpretation of the results ( 47 ). INFERIOR PETROSAL SINUS SAMPLING (IPSS) WITH CRH STIMULATION WHEN TO USE THIS TEST: Once the diagnosis of ACTH dependent Cushing's syndrome has been made based on endocrinologic testing, the next step in the evaluation of such patients should be an MRI of the pituitary to confirm the presence of a pituitary mass. Unfortunately, MRI imaging of the pituitary as a primary diagnostic tool is distinctly unhelpful due
