Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


should be an MRI of the pituitary to confirm the presence of a pituitary mass. Unfortunately, MRI imaging of the pituitary as a primary diagnostic tool is distinctly unhelpful due to the fact that 10% of all normal individuals may have slight abnormalities of their pituitary and that in many subjects with Cushing's disease, the tumor may be too small to be imaged with MRI scans. However, subjecting a patient to surgical pituitary exploration in the absence of a demonstrable mass is likely to result in an unsuccessful surgery. Furthermore, if previous dexamethasone and/or CRH testing is equivocal, then IPSS should be performed to further confirm the pituitary as the source of the ACTH ( 34 ). Although this test is less reliable in lateralizing the ACTH source (i.e., left versus right), than it is in confirming that the ACTH is central in origin, it can rule out ectopic ACTH production by a tumor (although ectopic CRH secreting tumors would be difficult to distinguish from true Cushings' disease based on IPSS). Simultaneous measurement of prolactin in the central samples can normalize the data if there is any difference in the location of the catheters ( 48 ). It is recommended that active hypercortisolism is confirmed by measuring a 24-hour UFC or overnight UFC the day preceding IPSS. Misleading results have been reported when this test is performed “out of cycle” in patients with cyclical Cushing’s. PROCEDURE: This test is done in conjunction with a skilled interventional neuroradiologist. It is important that the endocrinologist is personally present in the room during the procedure so that assurance can be made that the proper blood tests were drawn at the specified times. The patient is brought to the angiogram suite without sedation. A large bore IV line is placed in an antecubital fossa (to be certain there is access to peripheral blood sampling and CRH injection). Catheters (5 French) are placed in the femoral veins and threaded under fluoroscopic guidance to the inferior petrosal sinus. Injection of IV contrast confirms proper placement of the catheters. Patients are on constant, pulse, blood pressure and oxygenation monitors during the course of the procedure. Test tubes are prechilled in ice and labeled so that during the rapid sampling period, blood can be placed in the tubes without delay. It is recommended to routinely obtain 4 baseline measurements at -15, -10, -5 and at 0 minutes. This
