Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


rapid sampling period, blood can be placed in the tubes without delay. It is recommended to routinely obtain 4 baseline measurements at -15, -10, -5 and at 0 minutes. This allows for practice allowing proper coordination between the radiologists drawing blood from the IPSS and the individual drawing blood from the brachial vein. Appropriate amounts of blood should be removed to discard the dead space of the catheter (this varies depending on the size of the catheter used). 2 ml of blood is obtained in lavender top vacutainer tubes on ice for measurement of cortisol (on peripheral samples); ACTH and prolactin (on central samples). At 0' CRH is then injected as described above for the peripheral CRH test. Alternatively, a combination of CRH and 10ug of desmopressin can be used, especially if the patient has had a negative response to a prior CRH test. If CRH is not available, IPSS can also be performed with desmopressin alone per the protocol described above. Blood is then sampled from both central and peripheral lines at 2', 5' 10' and 15'. After the 15' time point and right before the IPSS catheters are removed, repeat fluoroscopic localization of the catheters should be performed to confirm that there was no displacement during the sampling. However, sampling on peripheral blood may continue as described in the CRH test discussed above. SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS: The test can be performed at any time of the day, although it is usually done in the morning. Side effects that the patient may experience are: slight nausea, metallic taste, urgency to urinate, a change in blood pressure (either increase or decrease), a change in heart rate, headaches, abdominal discomfort, facial flushing, and lightheadedness. These side effects are mild and last for only few minutes. Patients greater than 300 pounds in weight may not be able to be supported by the standard fluoroscopic table. Furthermore, such large patients may have an abdominal pannus that precludes reasonable access to the femoral veins. In such instances the IPSS can be performed via catheters placed in the antecubital vein with the patient immobilized in the sitting position. Strokes have been reported in the literature as a potential complication ( 36 ). To minimize this possibility, it is recommended that the catheters remain in the petrosal sinus for no more than 30 min. Freeze/thawing can decrease the ACTH concentration (see above); therefore, we recommend that the
