Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


it is recommended that the catheters remain in the petrosal sinus for no more than 30 min. Freeze/thawing can decrease the ACTH concentration (see above); therefore, we recommend that the samples be brought to the endocrine lab and analyzed within 24 hours with the plasma separated and kept on ice during this time. If the analysis is not possible within 24 hours, the samples should be aliquoted and frozen to minimize the amount of freeze/thawing. INTERPRETATION OF RESULTS: Plasma ACTH values are normalized to the prolactin value in order to correct for possible different localization of the catheters, or movement of the catheters during the study. The post CRH ACTH/Prolactin value of the central catheters should be >2.1 fold the ACTH/Prolactin value of the peripheral sample. In most cases of pituitary dependent Cushing’s, the increase is > 5.0-fold. A central to peripheral ACTH gradient higher or equal to 2 before CRH administration or higher or equal to 3, 10 min after CRH infusion is considered diagnostic of a pituitary source of ACTH (Cushing's disease). Lateralization would mean that the ratio of the left to right side is >2.0. Frequently the ratio criteria can be met without the need for CRH stimulation, however, the diagnostic accuracy increases from 86% to 90% with CRH ( 37 ). The workup of ACTH dependent Cushing’s to differentiate Cushing’s disease from ectopic ACTH source can be quite challenging and often times requires combination of different dynamic testing in addition to imaging that often ultimately led to costly and invasive diagnostic procedures such as IPSS to be able to establish an accurate diagnosis. A retrospective study involving 167 patients with Cushing’s disease and 27 patients with ectopic Cushing’s found that using thresholds of a cortisol increase >17% with an ACTH increase >37% during CRH test and a cortisol increase >18% with an ACTH increase >33% during desmopressin test, the combination of both tests gave 73% sensitivity and 98% PPV of Cushing’s disease. The PPV was 100% in patients with positive response to both tests, with a negative pituitary MRI and whole-body CT scan. The NPV was 100% in patients with negative response to both tests, with negative pituitary MRI and positive whole body CT scan. This combination of dynamic tests with imaging studies is proposed as an accurate, cost-effective diagnostic strategy for the workup of ACTH depended Cushing’s that might minimize the need for IPSS which
