Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


combination of dynamic tests with imaging studies is proposed as an accurate, cost-effective diagnostic strategy for the workup of ACTH depended Cushing’s that might minimize the need for IPSS which can be invasive, costly and unavailable in all institutions ( 43 ) ADRENAL VEIN SAMPLING WHEN TO USE THIS TEST: Patients diagnosed with ACTH independent Cushing’s and found to have bilateral adrenal tumors on imaging pose a particular challenge to the clinician. The differential diagnosis in these cases includes unilateral cortisol secreting adenoma (or carcinoma) with contralateral non-functioning cortical adenoma, bilateral cortisol secreting adenomas, macronodular adrenal hyperplasia, and primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease. Adrenal vein sampling measuring cortisol can be very helpful in this scenario and give valuable information to elucidate the proper diagnosis and guide therapy. PROCEDURE: This test is done in conjunction with a skilled interventional radiologist under sedation. The procedure is usually performed early morning after an overnight fast on the second day of either a low dose (0.5 mg orally every 6 hours) or high dose (2 mg orally every 6 hours) of dexamethasone administration. This eliminates the probability of endogenous ACTH secretion causing interference with the interpretation of autonomous adrenal gland cortisol secretion. The adrenal veins can be catheterized by the percutaneous femoral vein approach, the position of the catheter tip should be verified by venogram. Concentrations of cortisol and aldosterone should be measured in blood obtained from both adrenal veins and the external iliac vein (for the detection of peripheral venous concentrations) ( 49 ). SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS: Potential complications include thrombosis with subsequent infarction or hemorrhage adrenal insufficiency and hypertensive crisis, however these are rare ( 48 ). The aldosterone concentrations are usually much higher on the right adrenal vein compared to the left, this is presumably due to the anatomy differences and the catheter proximity to the right adrenal medulla. For this reason, although plasma epinephrine is measured to confirm success of adrenal vein catheterization, it cannot be used to correct for blood sample dilution between the 2 adrenal veins. There have been few case reports in which aldosterone has been used for side-to-side dilution differences, however whether it can be used for this purpose remains unclear ( 49 , 50 ). INTERPRETATION: Catheterization of each adrenal vein can be considered successful if plasma aldosterone concentration in the adrenal vein exceeds peripheral venous concentration by more than 100 pg/ml. An adrenal-to-peripheral venous cortisol
