Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


Catheterization of each adrenal vein can be considered successful if plasma aldosterone concentration in the adrenal vein exceeds peripheral venous concentration by more than 100 pg/ml. An adrenal-to-peripheral venous cortisol gradient greater than 6.5 can be considered consistent with a cortisol secreting adenoma. Lateralization can be determined by measuring the side-to-side cortisol gradient (high-side to low-side). A ration of 2.3 or greater is consistent with autonomous cortical secretion from predominately 1 adrenal gland ( 49 ). IMAGING STUDIES IN THE HPA AXIS EVALUATION The evaluation of the HPA axis function should always be approached through biochemical measurements. With few exceptions, imaging studies provide no information about hormonal function but can be very useful for the localization of tumors or lesions. Once a biochemical diagnosis of either deficiency or excess of glucocorticoid production has been established, imaging studies can complement and assists the hormonal evaluation, providing valuable information about etiology, prognosis, and management. Pituitary Imaging In the vast majority of cases of ACTH dependent Cushing’s syndrome (CS), the source of ACTH is in the pituitary (Cushing’s Disease), so performing imaging studies of the pituitary gland in this scenario to try to localize a tumor is appropriate. However given the high incidence of non-functioning pituitary adenomas in the general population (up to 10%) ( 51 ) and the increasing sensitivity of the high resolution imaging modalities available that can lead to false positive results, it is important to perform a thorough dynamic testing evaluation of each case and consider inferior petrosal sinus sampling if appropriate (see section above), before committing a patient to pituitary surgery. Adrenocorticotropic pituitary tumors represent about 10% of all pituitary tumors ( 52 ) and ACTH-secreting adenomas are most commonly microadenomas (<1cm). In cases of macroadenoma, assessment of extrasellar extension including chiasmatic compression and cavernous sinus involvement is imperative ( 53 ). The other scenario in which pituitary imaging is indicated and can be useful in the evaluation of the HPA axis function, is in patients diagnosed with secondary adrenal insufficiency who have no history of recent exogenous glucocorticoid exposure or any other clear explanation for the clinical presentation. In these cases, a mass lesion disrupting the HPA function should be suspected, especially if the patient presents with deficiencies of other pituitary hormones and/or elevated prolactin, as isolated adrenal insufficiency from a non-functioning tumor affecting the pituitary is very rare. PITUITARY MRI Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is the
