Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


deficiencies of other pituitary hormones and/or elevated prolactin, as isolated adrenal insufficiency from a non-functioning tumor affecting the pituitary is very rare. PITUITARY MRI Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is the mainstay of pituitary assessment. MRI is more sensitive than computed tomography (CT) in detecting corticotroph adenomas, but still detects only about 50% of these tumors ( 54 ) and has a false positive rate of 12-19% ( 55 , 56 )]. Standard pituitary imaging protocols typically include thin-section (2 or 3 mm) of T1-weighted (w) spin echo sequences (SE) performed both in coronal and sagittal planes through the pituitary fossa, which are repeated after administration of intravenous gadolinium contrast medium, associated with a T2-weighted sequence in the coronal plane ( 57 , 58 ). High spatial detail can be achieved by using thin slices, a fine matrix size and a small field of view focused on the pituitary ( 58 ). The classic MR features of a corticotroph adenoma include a less than 1 cm focal area of lesser enhancement on T1-w images following contrast administration, hyperintense or hypointense on T2-w images as compared with the normal pituitary gland, remodeling of the pituitary sella floor and deformity of the gland contour ( 59 ). Acquiring dynamic sequences in the first 1-2 minutes after contrast injection can increase the sensitivity ( 60 ), but this technique has not been unequivocally demonstrated to improve the usefulness of MR in Cushing’s ( 61 ). The use of three-dimensional (3D) spoiled gradient recalled acquisition in the steady state (SPGR) sequence allows for superior soft tissue contrast compared to conventional spin echo sequences, this technique can be further optimized with thin-slice imaging (<1mm) ( 58 ). Compared to T1-w SE sequence, SPGR has been reported to increase sensitivity but also has a higher false positive rate ( 62 , 63 ). PITUITARY CT SCAN Pituitary computed tomography (CT) scanning is less sensitive than MRI for the detection of pituitary adenomas ( 64 ) and it is usually reserved for those patients who cannot safely undergo brain MRI. Acquisition of 1 mm (or less) axial sections through the pituitary fossa with coronal reconstructions can be helpful in the assessment of macroadenomas ( 57 ). It is also very helpful preoperatively in patients planned for transsphenoidal pituitary surgery to delineate the bony anatomy ( 65 ) Adrenal Gland Imaging There are a couple of scenarios in which
