Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


also very helpful preoperatively in patients planned for transsphenoidal pituitary surgery to delineate the bony anatomy ( 65 ) Adrenal Gland Imaging There are a couple of scenarios in which adrenal gland imaging plays a role in the evaluation of the HPA axis. It is indicated and particularly important in the evaluation of patients diagnosed with ACTH independent CS, which is most commonly caused by adrenocortical adenomas or carcinomas and less frequently bilateral micronodular and macronodular hyperplasia. It can also be considered in cases of primary adrenal insufficiency. Tumors in the adrenal are fairly common in humans, they have been found to be present in 3% of autopsies performed in persons older than 50 years of age ( 66 ) and have been reported to be incidentally discovered in up to 5% of cross-sectional abdominal imaging carried out for unrelated problems ( 67 ). Most of these incidentally found adrenal tumors are nonfunctioning, 10 to 15% secrete excess amounts of hormones ( 68 ) of these, adrenocortical tumors are the most common. On the basis of imaging characteristics alone, no distinction can be made between a benign hyperfunctioning and a non-functioning adenoma, and this can only be differentiated based on clinical and biochemical diagnosis. Adrenal carcinoma represents <10% of adrenal tumors, 30 to 40% of these are hyperfunctioning in adults ( 69 ). There are multiple important imaging characteristics that can help differentiate benign adrenal adenomas from pheochromocytomas, adrenocortical carcinomas and metastasis, like percentage of lipid content, tumor size, homogeneity, border regularity, presence of calcifications, invasion of surrounding tissue, and lymph node enlargements ( Table 2 ). ADRENAL CT SCAN Unenhanced thin- section CT scan followed by contrast-enhanced examination is the cornerstone of imaging of adrenal tumors. Unenhanced CT is important to provide density measurements of lesions ( 70 ). The rich intracytoplasmic fat in adenomas results in a low attenuation on nonenhanced CT. The Hounsfield (HU) scale is a semiquantitative method to measure radiograph attenuation. If an adrenal mass measures <10 HU on unenhanced CT, the likelihood that it is a benign adenoma is nearly 100% ( 71 ). However up to 30% of benign adenomas might not contain large amounts of lipid and present with higher HU on nonenhanced CT scan. This is when measuring the contrast washout on delayed images is very useful. Ten minutes after the administration of contrast, an absolute medium washout of more than
