Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


nonenhanced CT scan. This is when measuring the contrast washout on delayed images is very useful. Ten minutes after the administration of contrast, an absolute medium washout of more than 50% has been reported to be close to a 100% sensitive and specific for benign adenoma ( 72 ). Non-adenomas include metastases, pheochromocytomas and carcinomas. Adrenal carcinomas usually appear as a unilateral mass, >4 cm in size with an inhomogeneous appearance due to necrosis, hemorrhage, fibrosis, and calcification. Careful assessment of the draining venous structures is essential on imaging, together with identification of direct infiltration of adjacent viscera ( 57 ). ADRENAL MRI When lesions cannot be characterized adequately with CT, MRI evaluation (with T1 and T2-weighted sequences, chemical shift and fat-suppression refinements) can be sought. Adrenal adenomas usually show low homogeneous signal on T1-weighted images and a signal intensity equivalent or higher than the liver on T2-weighted images. Chemical shift imaging will readily identify the lipid rich adenomas with signal loss on the out-of-phase sequences ( 73 ). This loss of signal can be measured using the adreno-splenic-ratio (ASR) and the signal intensity index (SII). An ASR ratio of <70% has been shown to be highly specific for adenomas and has a 78% sensitivity. Using the SII, a minimum of 5% signal loss characterizes an adrenal adenoma with accuracy of 100% [61]. MRI can also be particularly useful to evaluate for local and distant invasion of adrenocortical carcinomas. Primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease is a rare cause of Cushing’s syndrome that has a female predilection and may be familial or associated with Carney complex. On imaging the adrenal glands may appear normal or minimally hyperplastic with multiple, usually <5 mm, unilateral or bilateral benign cortical nodules. The adrenal nodules are macroscopically pigmented; they demonstrate a lower T1 and T2 signal intensity on MRI compared to surrounding atrophic cortical tissue. When nodules are 1-2 cm in size, there might be atrophy of the intervening cortex, which helps distinguish this condition from ACTH- dependent hyperplasia ( 57 ). Another rare cause of Cushing’s syndrome is ACTH-independent macronodular adrenal hyperplasia, which has a male predilection. The imaging appearance of the adrenal glands is striking with massive bilateral adrenal enlargement, nodularity. and distortion of adrenal contour. Nodules can measure 1 to 5.5 cm. On MRI they are hypointense relative to liver on T1-w images and hyperintense or isointense in T2-w images. On chemical
