Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


of adrenal contour. Nodules can measure 1 to 5.5 cm. On MRI they are hypointense relative to liver on T1-w images and hyperintense or isointense in T2-w images. On chemical shift imaging, nodules lose signal intensity on out-of-phase due to their high lipid content ( 57 ). OTHER ADRENAL IMAGING MODALITIES Patients that harbor adrenal masses, which are not adequately characterized by CT or MRI, can be further evaluated with functional nuclear medicine modalities that include single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scintigraphy with various radionuclide tracers, and positron emission tomography (PET) scintigraphy with various radionuclides. PET images provide a higher spatial resolution compared to SPECT ( 70 ). PET scan with either Fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) or 11 C-metomidate (MTO) can be useful in selected cases to differentiate benign adrenal adenomas from adrenocortical carcinomas. An elevated uptake on the FDG scan correlates with high metabolic activity and raises the suspicion for malignancy ( 74 ) with high sensitivity and specificity ( 75 ). Limitations of this technique include physiological excretion of FDG into renal inflammatory system and high metabolic uptake in inflammatory and infectious processes as well as in benign pheochromocytomas, leading to false positive results ( 64 ). Metomidate is an inhibitor of 11 beta-hydroxylase (CYP11B1) and aldosterone synthetase (CYP11B2), and based on this property its use can help differentiate tumors of adrenocortical origin from non-cortical lesions. Originally developed as a PET imaging agent radiolabeled with 11 C, more recently it has been labeled with 18 F and 123 I, allowing SPECT and SPECT/CT imaging ( 76 ). Integrated or “fused” PET-CT imaging allows to combine CT attenuation measurements with the intensity of FDG uptake, as described by the standardized uptake value (SUV), improving the performance of either imaging technique alone ( 77 ). Scintigraphy with Iodine-131-Iodomethyl-19-norcholesterol (NP 59) is a functional nuclear medicine imaging modality that can be used to differentiate adrenal cortical adenomas from carcinomas. This is a labeled cholesterol analogue that specifically binds to low-density lipoproteins and after receptor-mediated uptake it is stored in the adrenocortical cells ( 70 ). NP 59 uptake is regulated by ACTH and suppressed by dexamethasone, concentrating in hyperfunctioning cortisol and aldosterone secreting adenomas and showing low uptake in adrenocortical carcinomas because of the inefficient concentration of radiotracer by malignant tissue ( 78 ). Other Imaging Modalities for Ectopic Cushing’s Patients diagnosed with ACTH dependent Cushing’s whose biochemical dynamic tests suggests an
