Endocrine Testing Protocols: Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal Axis
KEYWORDS: cortisol, test, acth, adrenal, pubmed, cushing, imaging, pituitary, patients, endocrinol, clin, diagnosis, dexamethasone, clin endocrinol, disease


of the inefficient concentration of radiotracer by malignant tissue ( 78 ). Other Imaging Modalities for Ectopic Cushing’s Patients diagnosed with ACTH dependent Cushing’s whose biochemical dynamic tests suggests an ectopic source, pose a special challenge to the clinician. In 12 to 20% of these patients, the source remains undiscovered despite repeated biochemical and radiological investigations ( 55 ). In the setting of ectopic ACTH production, imaging studies play a crucial role in trying to identify the source of the tumor causing the disease and guide management and prognosis. The optimal imaging study to detect these tumors has not been defined. CT, MRI, PET scan, 111 In-pentetreotide (OCT) scintigraphy at conventional or higher radionuclide doses, as well as newer molecular imaging techniques like 131 I/ 123 -metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG), 18 F-fluoro-2-2-deoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET), 18 F-fluorodopa-PET (F-DOPA-PET), 68 Ga-DOTATATE-PET/CT or 68 Ga-DOTATOC-PET/CT scan ( 68 Gallium-SSTR-PET/CT) are complementary and have been shown to be useful in different scenarios with variable sensitivity and specificity ( 79 - 83 ). For the most part at least two different imaging modalities are needed to establish a diagnosis and sometimes, repeated imaging over several months is required to identify the source. The choice of imaging modalities is guided by the sensitivity of the procedure balanced with the risk of false-positive findings ( 72 ). A good approach is to start by obtaining images of the chest, since most ACTH-secreting tumors are located in this area. The most common causes are bronchial carcinoid tumors and small cell lung cancer. Other sources of excess ACTH production include neuroendocrine tumors of the thymus, bowel and pancreas, medullary carcinoma of the thyroid, pheochromocytomas, and mesotheliomas. CT of the chest, abdomen and pelvis with intravenous contrast medium injection is the most commonly used initial imaging test performed and is very useful in many cases. In patients with equivocal CT imaging findings, MRI can be useful, particularly for tumors within the abdomen. It is recommended to follow CT and MRI imaging with a functional imaging modality, being OCT scintigraphy the most widely used. Functional imaging reduces false-positive results because it relies on the specific properties of tumor cells, not just their anatomic characteristics. However, tumors lacking the relevant receptor can have false negative results ( 83 ). Site-specific differences occur and different imaging modalities might have higher sensitivity and specificity depending on this. A recent systematic review showed that FDG-PET can
