Chapter 13: Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, study, insulin, women, associated, glucose, studies, risk type, metabolic, syndrome, men, age


13–1 CHAPTER 13 RISK FACTORS FOR TYPE 2 DIABETES Sylvia H. Ley, PhD, RD, Matthias B. Schulze, DrPH, Marie-France Hivert, MD, MMSc, James B. Meigs, MD, MPH, and Frank B. Hu, MD, PhD Dr. Sylvia H. Ley is Instructor at Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA. Dr. Matthias B. Schulze is Department Head at the German Institute of Human Nutrition and Professor at University of Potsdam, Potsdam, Germany. Dr. Marie-France Hivert is Associate Professor at Harvard Medical School and Harvard Pilgrim Health Care Institute, Boston, MA. Dr. James B. Meigs is Professor of Medicine at Harvard Medical School and Physician, Division of General Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Dr. Frank B. Hu is Professor at Harvard Medical School and Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA. Received in final form July 15, 2015. SUMMARY Type 2 diabetes is a heterogeneous disease involving multiple behavioral, metabolic, and genetic factors. The occurrence of diabetes is characterized by progressive deterioration of glucose tolerance, but not all individuals in the intermediate states of glucose intolerance progress to a diagnosis of diabetes. Data suggest the onset of type 2 diabetes can be prevented and delayed through improved under­ standing of underlying susceptibility to diabetes and intervening on modifiable risk factors. Over 29 million people in the United States were estimated to have diabetes in 2012. The type 2 diabetes epidemic has been attributed to urbanization and environmental transition leading to lifestyle changes. Prospective studies have uncovered roles for individual nutrients, foods, and dietary patterns in type 2 diabetes prevention. Diets favoring higher intake of whole grains, green leafy vegetables, and coffee; lower intake of refined grains, red and processed meat, and sugar-sweetened beverages; and moderate intake of alcohol have been linked with reduced risk of type 2 diabetes. In a randomized trial after 4-year follow-up, a Mediterranean diet with extra virgin olive oil supple­ mentation reduced diabetes risk by 40% compared to a low-fat control diet. Physical inactivity is another behavioral risk factor for type 2 diabetes. A lifestyle that includes physical activity, from brisk walking to higher intensity endurance or resistance training, can reduce the risk of developing type 2 diabetes. For example, regular brisk walking of ≥2.5 hours per week has been associated with 30% reduction in type 2 diabetes risk compared to almost no walking. Many benefits of a healthy lifestyle appear to be mediated through
