Chapter 13: Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, study, insulin, women, associated, glucose, studies, risk type, metabolic, syndrome, men, age


hours per week has been associated with 30% reduction in type 2 diabetes risk compared to almost no walking. Many benefits of a healthy lifestyle appear to be mediated through maintenance of a healthy distribution of body fat. Central obesity, which can be assessed by measuring waist circumference, is a strong predictor of type 2 diabetes. A large, international meta-analysis suggested that the relative risk (RR) of type 2 diabetes per standard deviation in obesity indicators was slightly more pronounced for higher waist circumference (1.87, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.58–2.20) than higher body mass index (1.72, 95% CI 1.47–2.02). With the increased prevalence of obesity at a population level, more women are experiencing metabolic abnormalities during pregnancy. Children who experienced intrauterine exposure to maternal diabetes are more likely to have childhood overweight, followed by impaired glucose tolerance in early adulthood. For example, intrauterine exposure to maternal diabetes was associated with type 2 diabetes in youth age 10–22 years (odds ratio 5.7, 95% CI 2.4–13.4). Therefore, the vicious cycle of diabetes may continue to the next generation, as they enter childbearing age in the absence of early-life intervention. Novel biomarkers and intermediate conditions associated with diabetes risk have been identified. Type 2 diabetes is increasingly consid­ ered to be a subclinical pro-inflammatory condition derived from accumulation of excess adipose tissue leading to impaired secretion of adipokines and inflammatory cytokines by adipocytes. Endothelial dysfunction markers have been associated with type 2 diabetes. In addition, the metabolic syndrome, a phenomenon of metabolic risk traits clustering, including central obesity, elevated fasting glucose, triglyceride, and blood pressure levels, and/or low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels, has emerged as a powerful risk factor for developing type 2 diabetes (RR averaging 5.1 in one meta-analysis). Prospective studies have identified modifiable risk factors for type 2 diabetes, which offer the potential to predict and detect diabetes risk before the onset of the disease. Although type 2 diabetes cannot be cured at the present time, development of the disease can be prevented or delayed by intervening on modifiable risk factors at an early stage. INTRODUCTION Type 2 diabetes has become a major public health concern globally and in the United States (Figure 13.1) (1). Type 2 diabetes is a heterogeneous disease involving complex genetic, behavioral, and metabolic factors. Prospective studies have improved the understanding of modifiable risk factors for type 2 diabetes (2). However, individual 13–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd
