Chapter 13: Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, study, insulin, women, associated, glucose, studies, risk type, metabolic, syndrome, men, age


which require a large sample size to uncover (32). Collaborative efforts have been made to address these challenges, including the Cohorts for Heart and Aging Research in Genomic Epidemiology (CHARGE) consortium. The consortium conducted a meta-analysis of 14 cohort studies comprising about 48,000 participants of European descent and reported a nominal interaction between GCKR (rs780094) variant and whole grain intake on fasting insulin (p=0.006) (33). The CHARGE consortium used a similar approach to report that higher total zinc intake may attenuate the glucose- raising effects of the zinc transporter variant, SLC30A8 (rs11558471) (34). Constructing a risk score is another approach that has been used to investi­ gate gene-environment interactions. In a nested case-control study within the Health Professionals Follow-up Study (HPFS) and the NHS, a genetic risk score was calculated on the basis of 10 polymorphisms in nine loci (35). The asso­ ciation between genetic score and type 2 diabetes was strengthened with the BMI increase in this study of individuals of European descent (35). In an intervention trial, the Diabetes Prevention Program (36), a high genetic risk score was asso­ ciated with increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes, but a lifestyle interven­ tion attenuated this risk. Although it is questionable whether information on gene-environment inter­ actions improves the prediction of type 2 diabetes (37), better understanding of genetic susceptibility to the disease and its influence on environmental risk factors may assist in developing future prevention strategies for type 2 diabetes. FIGURE 13.5. Diabetes Risk in the Proband and the Complex Interplay Between Genes, Shared Environment, Shared Behaviors, and Epigenetic Effects SOURCE: Reference 31, copyright © 2010 American Diabetes Association, reprinted with permission from the American Diabetes Association 13–6 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition BEHAVIORAL AND LIFESTYLE RISK FACTORS The type 2 diabetes epidemic has been attributed to urbanization and environ­ mental transition leading to sedentary behavior and overnutrition (38). These environmental transformations include work pattern changes from heavy labor to sedentary, increased computerization and mechanization, and improved public transportation accompanied by easy access to fast foods and other energy- dense and nutrient-poor foods (38). The lifestyle characteristics of people with type 2 diabetes are described in Chapter 10 Lifestyle Characteristics Among People With Diabetes and Prediabetes. This section presents information on behavioral and lifestyle factors in relation to the risk of developing type 2 diabetes. NUTRITION Dietary intake has been suspected as a major lifestyle risk factor for
