Chapter 13: Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, study, insulin, women, associated, glucose, studies, risk type, metabolic, syndrome, men, age


presents information on behavioral and lifestyle factors in relation to the risk of developing type 2 diabetes. NUTRITION Dietary intake has been suspected as a major lifestyle risk factor for type 2 diabetes for a long time, but evidence from prospective studies evaluating diet in relation to the incidence of diabetes has vastly accumulated since the 1990s (2). These studies investigated the roles of nutrients, foods, and dietary patterns on type 2 diabetes progression. Dietary Carbohydrate and Fiber Several prospective observational studies investigated the relation between total carbo­ hydrate intake (expressed as the proportion of carbohydrate intake of total energy intake or as energy-adjusted intake quantity in grams per day) and risk of type 2 diabetes. The majority of these studies suggested that the relative carbohydrate proportion of the diet does not influence the risk of diabetes (39). A few prospective cohort studies also investigated specific nutrient substitutions with heterogeneous results. For example, no significant relation of higher carbohy­ drate intake at the expense of protein with risk of diabetes was observed in the NHS II (40), but such an isocaloric exchange was associated with reduced risk in the EPIC-Potsdam Study (41). A meta-analysis of eight prospective cohort studies, including five from the United States and one each from Finland, Australia, and Germany, demonstrated an inverse association of the intake of dietary fiber from cereal products with risk of type 2 diabetes (42). Participants with higher intake had a relative risk (RR) of 0.67 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.62–0.72) comparing highest versus lowest intake categories (42). In contrast to cereal fiber, total fiber or fiber from fruits or vegetables was not associated with diabetes risk (42). The protective effect of cereal fiber was confirmed by subsequent cohort studies (43,44), although some prospective studies did not detect a protective effect of cereal fiber (45,46). Carbohydrate quality can be determined by evaluating the physiologic response to carbohydrate-rich foods. The glycemic index reflects the quality of carbohydrates by ranking the ability of specific foods to raise postprandial blood glucose levels (47), whereas the glycemic load is the cross-product of the glycemic index of a specific food and the amount of carbohy­ drates, which therefore reflects on both quality and quantity of the carbohydrates. The associations of glycemic index and load with risk of diabetes have been evaluated by a number of prospective studies. Meta-analyses of these studies demonstrated that diets with low average
