Chapter 13: Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, study, insulin, women, associated, glucose, studies, risk type, metabolic, syndrome, men, age


The associations of glycemic index and load with risk of diabetes have been evaluated by a number of prospective studies. Meta-analyses of these studies demonstrated that diets with low average glycemic index and glycemic load might be associated with reduced risk for diabetes compared with high glycemic index and load (48,49,50). These associ­ ations appear to be independent of the amount of dietary fiber in the diet. Dietary Fat While higher total fat intake has been hypothesized to contribute to diabetes directly by inducing insulin resistance and indirectly by promoting weight gain, metabolic studies in humans do not support the idea that high-fat diets have a detrimental effect on insulin sensitivity (51). In most observational prospective studies, total fat intake was not associated with diabetes risk (Table 13.2). Strong evidence also comes from the large-scale, randomized Women’s Health Initiative (WHI). The incidence of treated diabetes was not different among women who consumed a low-fat diet (24% energy from fat) compared to women who consumed a standard U.S. diet (35% energy from fat) (RR 0.96, 95% CI 0.90–1.03) (52). The specific type of fat may be more important than the total intake. Prospective studies suggest that diets that favor plant fats over animal fats are advantageous (53,54). Whether changing the relative proportions of different fatty acid subgroups is related to diabetes risk remains a matter of debate. A higher intake of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) was related to lower diabetes risk in the NHS (55) and the Iowa Women’s Study (56). Also, exchanging saturated fatty acids with PUFA was related to lower risk in some studies (53). However, the relationship between long-chain n-3 PUFA and diabetes risk has been inconsistent: a meta-analysis including 16 prospective cohorts with 440,873 participants and 21,512 cases of incident diabetes reported a combined relative risk of 1.04 (95% CI 0.97–1.10), comparing the highest versus lowest intake categories (57). Micronutrients Emerging evidence supports the asso­ ciations of specific minerals with type 2 diabetes risk using assessments of dietary intake and/or biomarkers. A meta-analysis of four prospective studies conducted in the United States demonstrated that higher heme-iron intake was associated with increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes (RR 1.31, 95% CI 1.21–1.43), comparing the highest and lowest intake categories (58). In the same meta- analysis paper, higher iron stores, reflected by elevated ferritin concentra­ tions, were associated with increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes (RR 1.66,
