Chapter 13: Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, study, insulin, women, associated, glucose, studies, risk type, metabolic, syndrome, men, age


diabetes risk (68). This regional variation might be explained by varying types of fish consumed and cooking preparation methods used within different geographic locations, although further investigation is needed to confirm this hypothesis. Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes 13–9 Dairy consumption has been associated with moderately lower type 2 diabetes risk (69), and the benefits of yogurt seem to be more consistent than other types of dairy products. Although the total intake of fruit and vege­ tables was not associated with risk of type 2 diabetes, higher green leafy vegetable intake was associated with reduced risk of developing type 2 diabetes (70,71). Further, consumption of anthocyanin-rich foods, particularly blueberries and apples/ pears, was associated with lower risk of type 2 diabetes (72). Consumption of nuts, which are high in PUFA and monounsaturated fatty acid, has been linked with lower risk of diabetes (73). However, few prospective studies have directly evaluated this hypothesis to date, with available data providing inconsistent results. For example, higher nut consumption was associated with reduced risk for type 2 diabetes in the NHS (RR comparing extreme categories 0.73, 95% CI 0.60–0.89) (74), but this significant association was not observed in the Physicians’ Health Study (75). In the PREvención con DIeta MEDiterránea (PREDIMED) trial, supplementation with nuts significantly reduced incidence of type 2 diabetes (76). However, the nuts were supplemented in the context of the Mediterranean diet in this trial, and therefore, it is difficult to conclude that the beneficial results were solely due to nut consumption. Coffee Coffee consumption has been associated with lower diabetes risk in a number of prospective studies (Table 13.3). Meta- analyses clearly indicated a potential preventive role of coffee consumption (77,78,79). In addition, both caffeinated and decaffeinated coffee consumptions were associated with lower diabetes risk (79). While the active components of coffee that offer protection from diabetes have not been identified, caffeine does not appear to be a factor, and residual confounding is unlikely to explain the reduced risk observed among coffee consumers. Regular coffee consumption is generally associated with unfavorable lifestyle habits in most populations, and therefore, coffee consumption is more likely related to increased risk if confounded. Sugar-Sweetened Beverages About 20% of young adults (age 20–34 years) and 12% of adults (age ≥35 years) in the United States consume ≥500 calories per day from sugar-sweetened beverages based on NHANES 2007–2008 data (80). Prospective studies suggest that consuming sugar-sweetened
