Chapter 13: Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, study, insulin, women, associated, glucose, studies, risk type, metabolic, syndrome, men, age


12% of adults (age ≥35 years) in the United States consume ≥500 calories per day from sugar-sweetened beverages based on NHANES 2007–2008 data (80). Prospective studies suggest that consuming sugar-sweetened bever­ ages increases the risk of developing type 2 diabetes (Table 13.3) (81,82). Sugar- sweetened beverages, such as soft drinks, fruit drinks, and energy and vitamin water drinks, contain naturally derived caloric sweeteners, including sucrose, high fructose corn syrup, and/or fruit juice concentrates. An analysis suggested that substituting plain water, coffee, or tea for sugar-sweetened beverages was associated with lower risk of diabetes (83). The intake of sugar-sweetened beverages may contribute to diabetes risk by altering glucose metabolism when large amounts of rapidly absorbable carbohydrates are consumed and by promoting weight gain by incomplete compensation of liquid calories resulting in increased total caloric intake (84). Interaction between genetic predisposition and sugar- sweetened beverage intake was investi­ gated in relation to BMI using a genetic predisposition score calculated based on 32 BMI-associated loci (85). Higher sugar-sweetened beverage intake was associated with more pronounced genetic predisposition to increased BMI and risk for obesity. Alcohol Consumption A U-shaped relation between alcohol consumption and type 2 diabetes has been reported from observational studies (86). Based on a meta-analysis of 20 prospective cohort studies (nine from the United States, six from Europe, three from Asia, and two from Australia), the amount of alcohol consumption was most protective of diabetes at 24 g per day among women and at 22 g per day among men, equating to approximately one and one-half U.S. standard drinks per day (Table 13.3) (86). However, risk of diabetes was particularly high at an alcohol consumption level above 50 g per day for women and 60 g per day for men, approximately four U.S. stan­ dard drinks per day (86). Therefore, the authors concluded that moderate alcohol consumption is protective against type 2 diabetes (86). However, the interpre­ tation of the U-shape association must be taken with caution, because it might be confounded by some abstainers who might be “sick quitters.” In a longitudinal analysis of HPFS participants, increasing alcohol consumption over time was asso­ ciated with lower risk of type 2 diabetes among initially rare and light drinkers (87). In addition, moderate alcohol consumption has been shown to atten­ uate the positive association between dietary glycemic load and risk of diabetes (88). EPIC-InterAct study investigators reported that the association of alcohol
