Chapter 13: Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, study, insulin, women, associated, glucose, studies, risk type, metabolic, syndrome, men, age


is likely exposed to higher concentrations of glucose because glucose travels freely across the placenta from the mother to the fetus (124). In response to increased glucose, the fetus increases its own insulin production, which can cause the fetus to grow exces­ sively, resulting in macrosomia (124) and, subsequently, glucose intolerance later in life (126), as illustrated in Figure 13.10 (142). Although adjusting for SES did not alter the reported association of birth weight with type 2 diabetes (140), the authors acknowledge that individual socioeco­ nomic markers might not have captured all dimensions of social position across the life course. Therefore, the potential effect of residual socioeconomic confounding cannot be excluded. Early Postnatal Exposure Women from Prospect-EPIC who were exposed to the 1944–1945 Dutch famine between ages 0 and 21 years were at increased risk for developing type 2 diabetes later in life (143). Therefore, a short period of severe undernutrition during postnatal development may also increase type 2 diabetes risk in adulthood. Early postnatal behavioral exposures, such as breastfeeding, may have a long- term protective effect against obesity and type 2 diabetes later in life (144,145,146). Previous meta-analyses have demon­ strated that being breastfed during early life has a protective effect on obesity over a wide range of ages (144,145). In addi­ tion to childhood obesity, breastfeeding was associated with lower preprandial blood glucose and insulin concentrations among infants (146), and breastfed children and adults without diabetes had lower fasting insulin concentrations than those who were formula-fed (146). A meta-analysis of seven studies reported that being breastfed compared to formula- fed was associated with a reduced risk of type 2 diabetes later in life (OR 0.61, 95% CI 0.44–0.85) (146). However, a randomized breastfeeding promotion intervention in Belarus was not able to reduce childhood obesity assessed at age 6.5 years (147). The authors, therefore, have commented that previous findings on beneficial effects of breastfeeding on childhood obesity may have been caused by confounding and selection bias (147), including demographic, socioeconomic, educational, ethnic, cultural, and psycho­ logical factors in addition to maternal and infant physical and emotional health (148). Moreover, differences in the maternal populations might also affect child care practices, access to medical care, and child health status (148), which could subsequently influence anthropo­ metric and adiposity status of the child. Therefore, it is difficult to extrapolate the FIGURE 13.10. Maternal Diabetes and Perinatal Programming SOURCE: Reference 142, copyright
