Chapter 13: Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, study, insulin, women, associated, glucose, studies, risk type, metabolic, syndrome, men, age


fasting plasma glucose; IFG, impaired fasting glucose; IGT, impaired glucose tolerance; NGT, normal glucose tolerance. SOURCE: Reference 184, copyright © 2003 American Diabetes Association, reprinted with permission from the American Diabetes Association most contemporary cohorts), markers of insulin resistance, and reduced beta cell function (187). Beta Cell Dysfunction Type 2 diabetes is believed to originate from an imbalance between insulin resistance and the capacity of the beta cell to produce insulin in the face of demand. The etiologic factors leading to beta cell dysfunction are still a matter of important research, but genetic variants predisposing to type 2 diabetes are often located near genes implicated in beta cell function (28). The acute insulin response (AIR) measured during a frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test is a refined measure of insulin secretion capacity and represents the first-phase insulin response (188). A low AIR is associated with risk of developing type 2 diabetes based on prospective studies in Pima Indians and Insulin Resistance Atherosclerosis Study (IRAS) participants (189,190,191). Indices of insulin secretion can also be derived from the OGTT. The most commonly used is the insulinogenic index calculated as [Δ insulin0–30 min] / [Δ glucose0–30 min]. The correlation between the insulinogenic index and the first- phase insulin secretion based on an intravenous glucose tolerance test (IVGTT) is estimated at r=0.58 (192). The San Antonio Heart Study (SAHS) included Mexican Americans and non-Hispanic whites who were followed for 7–8 years with multiple time points of an OGTT. In the SAHS, a low insulinogenic index was associated with increased risk of devel­ oping type 2 diabetes (193). Another report from the SAHS showed that the index estimating the later phase of insulin secretion during OGTT (60–120 minutes) was also associated with risk of devel­ oping type 2 diabetes, independent of the insulinogenic index (194). Proinsulin Beta cell dysfunction can be assessed by measuring proinsulin and other products of insulin processing. High proinsulin levels in relation to mature insulin circu­ lating levels indicate beta cell stress, impaired beta cell function, and/or insulin processing and secretion abnormalities. In the NHS, women who developed type 2 diabetes had higher proinsulin levels, proinsulin-to-insulin ratios, and C-peptide levels at baseline (195). In the Women’s Health Study, higher proinsulin levels were a risk factor for a more rapid transition to type 2 diabetes (196). Although both AIR and proinsulin levels are markers of beta cell function, they seem to capture
