Chapter 13: Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, study, insulin, women, associated, glucose, studies, risk type, metabolic, syndrome, men, age


were a risk factor for a more rapid transition to type 2 diabetes (196). Although both AIR and proinsulin levels are markers of beta cell function, they seem to capture complementary information. In the IRAS, multivariable logistic regression models demonstrated that AIR and proinsulin levels were independently associated with risk of developing type 2 diabetes, even when adjusting for potential confounding factors, such as insulin sensitivity (197). Insulin Sensitivity (or Insulin Resistance) Increased insulin resistance usually precedes the development of type 2 diabetes by many years and is consid­ ered as a very early step in the progression towards disease onset. Various indices of insulin resistance have been proposed; their abilities to predict type 2 diabetes incidence are presented in Table 13.5 (198). The gold standard to measure insulin resistance is the M-value based on euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp studies: the lower the M-value, the higher the insulin resistance (or lower the insulin sensi­ tivity, its reciprocal). Prospective studies in Pima Indians demonstrated that a low M-value predicts type 2 diabetes incidence (190,199). The mini-model during an IVGTT is another refined tech­ nique to estimate insulin sensitivity (Si). In offspring from parents with type 2 diabetes with follow-up of up to 25 years, Si was the strongest determinant of the progression to type 2 diabetes (200). 13–18 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition In most large-scale epidemiologic studies, it is impractical to perform clamp studies or a sophisticated, multisample IVGTT. Consequently, a number of simpler indices to estimate insulin resistance (or insulin sensitivity) are used. Most of these indices are derived from measures of insulin and glucose during the OGTT and sometimes use solely fasting measurements. Various insulin resistance indices were compared in their ability to predict type 2 diabetes incidence using three prospective studies (i.e., SAHS, IRAS, Mexico City Diabetes Study) that included multiple racial/ethnic backgrounds (i.e., non-Hispanic white, African American, Hispanic American, Mexican) (Table 13.5) (198). The Insulin Sensitivity Index (ISI0,120; that uses the fasting and 120 minute post-OGTT insulin and glucose concentrations) proposed by Gutt et al. (201) offered the highest predic­ tive values. However, the simpler indices frequently used are based only on fasting measures (198). The homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR), based simply on fasting insulin and glucose measure­ ments (202), is commonly used and accepted as a marker of insulin resistance in large-scale epidemiologic studies. In the Framingham Offspring Study, individuals in the upper
