Chapter 13: Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, study, insulin, women, associated, glucose, studies, risk type, metabolic, syndrome, men, age


insulin and glucose measure­ ments (202), is commonly used and accepted as a marker of insulin resistance in large-scale epidemiologic studies. In the Framingham Offspring Study, individuals in the upper quartile of insulin resistance based on HOMA-IR were twice as likely (OR 2.05) to develop type 2 diabetes over 7 years of follow-up (using a multivariable model that included known type 2 diabetes clinical risk factors in addition to HOMA beta cell index, calculated using fasting insulin and glucose measurements as described by Matthews et al. (202)) (203). In the WHI Observational Study, higher HOMA-IR was associated with increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes across multiple ethnic groups, including white, black, Hispanic, and Asian/Pacific Islanders (204). Fasting insulin is also used as a surro­ gate for insulin resistance in large-scale epidemiologic studies. Based on NHANES reports, the prevalence of hyperinsu­ linemia increased from 25.8% in the NHANES III to 34.8% in the NHANES 1999–2002 (p<0.001), a global increase of 35% in the U.S. adult population (205). The increase was particularly noted in non-Hispanic whites, but other racial/ ethnic backgrounds had higher preva­ lences at both assessment periods. ADIPOKINES, INFLAMMATORY, AND OTHER BIOMARKERS Prediabetes and insulin resistance states are increasingly characterized by a subclinical pro-inflammatory condition, likely derived from adipose tissue dysreg- ulation. With accumulation of excess weight, macrophages infiltrate adipose tissue and lead to secretion of pro- inflammatory cytokines and impaired secretion of adipokines, which are proteins secreted by the adipose tissue. The liver is likely involved in the process by secretion of C-reactive protein (CRP) and is sometimes characterized by abnormal fatty infiltration associated with increased liver enzymes in the circulation. The inflamma­ tory process is often linked with endothelial dysfunction markers. Many epidemiologic studies have tested whether adipokines and other cytokines are early markers of risk for developing type 2 diabetes. Adiponectin Adiponectin is an adipokine mainly produced by adipocytes (206). In contrast to most adipokines and cytokines, circu­ lating adiponectin levels are decreased in excess weight, especially if centrally distributed. Small “healthy” adipocytes produce high levels of adiponectin, which is believed to have anti-inflammatory and insulin-sensitizing effects, based on in vitro and animal studies (207,208,209). TABLE 13.5. Ability of Candidate Indices of Insulin Resistance to Predict Incident Type 2 Diabetes INDICES AROC CURVE TOP 10% VERSUS BOTTOM 90% IGT NGT IGT NGT AROC Rank AROC Rank RR Rank RR Rank -ISI0,120 67.3 1 70.8* 2 1.96
