Chapter 13: Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, study, insulin, women, associated, glucose, studies, risk type, metabolic, syndrome, men, age


adiponectin levels were consistently associated with increased risk of devel­ oping type 2 diabetes in populations from various ethnic backgrounds and wide ranges of age, sex, and baseline glucose tolerance (Figure 13.15) (211). In the Framingham Offspring Study and in the Cooperative Health Research in the Region of Augsburg (KORA) study, low adiponectin levels were associated with increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes among individuals who were insulin resistant at baseline (upper quartile of HOMA-IR), but not among insulin-sensitive individuals (212). In contrast, based on analyses from the Cardiovascular Health Study (CHS), the association between lower adiponectin levels and increased risk of type 2 diabetes was stronger in individuals with lower HOMA-IR (213). Using more refined measures of insulin sensitivity (Si based on IVGTT), the association between adiponectin levels and the type 2 diabetes incidence was blunted and nonsignificant after adjusting for Si in the IRAS multi- ethnic cohort, suggesting that insulin Si mediated the association (214). The discrepancies between studies are difficult to explain, but they indicate that the inter­ actions between adiponectin and insulin resistance and their association with type 2 diabetes incidence are complex. Pro-Inflammatory Cytokines Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFα) was one of the first proteins to be identified as part of the adipose tissue inflamma­ tory pathways (215) and is suspected to directly and indirectly contribute to insulin resistance by acting on adipose tissue, liver, and skeletal muscles. In the adipose tissue, TNFα is produced primarily by adipose-infiltrating macrophages and is implicated in inflammation, cell cycle regulation, cytotoxicity, and production of other cytokines. Interleukin (IL)-6 is a pro-inflammatory cytokine that is produced by many cell types, including fibroblasts, endothelial cells, mononuclear phagocytes, neutrophils, hepatocytes, and lymphocytes. Both TNFα and IL-6 stim­ ulate the synthesis and secretion of CRP by the liver. CRP is a sensitive marker of low-grade systemic inflammation. Each of these three biomarkers—TNFα, IL-6, and CRP—was associated with increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes in prospective studies, but CRP seemed to offer stronger and more stable association (216). When including all three biomarkers in models, only CRP remained significantly associated with type 2 diabetes incidence in the NHS (217) and WHI Observational Study (218). In the EPIC-Norfolk cohort, the association between elevated CRP and risk for developing type 2 diabetes was attenuated to nonsignificance after adjust­ ment for waist-to-hip ratio, serum gamma glutamyltransferase (GGT), and serum adiponectin (219). In the Multi-Ethnic Study
