Chapter 13: Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, study, insulin, women, associated, glucose, studies, risk type, metabolic, syndrome, men, age


and urokinase-type plasminogen acti­ vator/urokinase. Von Willebrand factor is a glycoprotein involved in hemostasis, and increased circulating levels are also a marker of endothelial dysfunction. Fibrinogen is a key component of the coagulation cascade. In the Framingham Offspring Study, higher levels of PAI-1 and von Willebrand factor were associated with increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes in multivari­ able models that included major diabetes clinical risk factors in addition to CRP levels (223). PAI-1 levels were strongly associated with risk of type 2 diabetes in multivariable models in the Health, Aging, and Body Composition Study of black and white older adults (224) and in the IRAS cohort (225). In contrast, circulating fibrinogen levels demonstrated weaker or nonsignificant associations with type 2 diabetes after accounting for other risk factors, including BMI (220,225). Endothelial Dysfunction Markers Endothelial dysfunction can be detected by measurement of elevated plasma levels of cellular adhesion molecules, including E-selectin, intercellular adhesion molecule 1, and vascular cell adhesion molecule 1. These markers were asso­ ciated with risk of developing type 2 diabetes in the NHS (226) and the multi- ethnic WHI Observational Study (227). Liver Enzymes Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis is a liver condition strongly associated with insulin resistance and abnormal lipid metabolism characteristic of the metabolic syndrome, as described in Chapter 26 Liver and Gallbladder Disease in Diabetes. An increase in liver enzymes, mainly GGT and alanine aminotransferase (ALT), is one of the first clinical manifestations of nonalco­ holic steatohepatitis. In the Bogalusa Heart Study, liver enzymes were measured when participants were age 25 years on average. At follow-up exams (a mean of 16 years later), diabetes status was associated with higher base­ line GGT or ALT levels, independently of potential confounding factors, including alcohol intake, BMI, triglyceride levels, and HOMA-IR (228). Similarly, the Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young Adults (CARDIA) study demonstrated that diabetes incidence was associated with higher GGT levels at baseline, independent of potential confounding factors (229). The associations between elevated liver enzymes and the risk of developing type 2 diabetes were observed consistently, as demonstrated in a meta-analysis of prospective cohorts of men and women from various countries in Europe and Asia, as well as the United States (230). Interestingly, a cross-sectional report from the NHANES III investigating the association between GGT levels and diabetes reported an interaction between BMI and GGT levels: higher diabetes preva­ lence was associated with high BMI only in
