Chapter 13: Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, study, insulin, women, associated, glucose, studies, risk type, metabolic, syndrome, men, age


further investigation is needed to confirm these observational findings. Sex Hormones In men, higher risk of type 2 diabetes has been associated with hypogonadism, even in the subclinical range of testos­ terone levels. In the NHANES III, men in the lowest tertile of estimated free (or bioavailable) testosterone were about four times more likely to have type 2 diabetes compared with men in the upper tertile, adjusted for age, ethnic background, BMI, and waist-to-hip ratio (237). This report was in line with a meta-analysis demon­ strating that low testosterone in men was associated with type 2 diabetes in both cross-sectional and prospective studies (238). The association between testos­ terone levels and risk of type 2 diabetes in women is less often investigated but seems to have the opposite trend. In the Rancho Bernardo Study, higher risk of type 2 diabetes was associated with higher bioavailable testosterone levels in postmenopausal women (239). In addi­ tion, higher levels of bioavailable estradiol were associated with higher risk of type 2 diabetes in women (239), but not in men (239,240). Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes 13–21 Sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) is a protein that binds to circulating sex hormones, regulating the amount of free hormones available to engender their biologic effects. Higher insulin resistance has been associated with lower levels of SHBG. Lower levels of SHBG were associ­ ated with higher risk of type 2 diabetes; the relative risk derived from prospective studies was stronger in women than in men (238). Lower SHBG levels were associated with increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes in both the Physicians’ Health Study and Women’s Health Study, and genetic associ­ ation analyses suggested that SHBG could be implicated in some of the metabolic path­ ways leading to type 2 diabetes, based on Mendelian randomization analyses (241). POLYCYSTIC OVARY SYNDROME Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a syndrome of ovarian dysfunction characterized by the combination of hyperandrogenism, menstrual and ovula­ tory alterations, and polycystic ovarian morphology (242). PCOS has been associated with increased prevalence rates of IGT and type 2 diabetes based on meta-analysis results (243). However, limited large-scale, long-term prospective data on PCOS and type 2 diabetes are available. After an 8-year follow-up of 97 women with PCOS and 95 controls (244), risk of developing type 2 diabetes among those with PCOS was elevated by twofold, but nonsignificant, potentially due to a small sample size. In a
