Chapter 13: Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, study, insulin, women, associated, glucose, studies, risk type, metabolic, syndrome, men, age


PCOS and 95 controls (244), risk of developing type 2 diabetes among those with PCOS was elevated by twofold, but nonsignificant, potentially due to a small sample size. In a more recent prospective study following women with PCOS (n=255) (245), the age-standardized prevalence of type 2 diabetes at the end of a mean 17-year follow-up was 39.3%, which was signifi­ cantly higher than 5.8% from the respective general population of a similar age. GESTATIONAL DIABETES MELLITUS Detailed information on gestational diabetes is provided in Chapter 4. This section briefly summarizes the data on gestational diabetes as a risk factor for type 2 diabetes. Based on the large Kaiser Permanente Southern California database, in 2005, pregnancies were complicated by gestational diabetes in 4.9% of white, 5.2% of black, 8.6% of Hispanic, and 10.3% of Asian/Pacific Islander origin women (122). As reviewed (246), women with gesta­ tional diabetes are at increased risk for type 2 diabetes after the index pregnancy. The progression to type 2 diabetes is markedly increased within the first 5 years after delivery and then seems to level off. The incidence of progression to type 2 diabetes is estimated to be 40%–50% at 5 years in most cohorts but can reach up to 70% in Native Americans and with longer follow-up (246). Interestingly, a positive 50 g screening test (O’Sullivan test) during pregnancy is also associated with increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes, even if women did not reach gestational diabetes by the diagnostic criteria on the OGTT (247,248). In view of this high risk of developing type 2 diabetes among women with a history of gestational diabetes, clinical guidelines recommend type 2 diabetes screening in postpartum (182). Unfortunately, this recommendation is poorly followed in clinical settings with postpartum type 2 diabetes screening performed in 33%–50% of women with gestational diabetes, even in academic centers (249,250,251). THE METABOLIC SYNDROME AND ITS COMPONENTS The “metabolic syndrome” refers to the phenomenon of risk factor clustering— the co-occurrence of metabolic traits in the same individual to a greater degree than expected by chance, hypothetically reflecting a unifying underlying patho­ physiology. Metabolic traits that cluster in the metabolic syndrome include obesity (particularly central obesity assessed by waist circumference), high fasting glucose, high blood pressure, high triglyceride, and/or low HDL cholesterol levels. The co-occurrence of metabolic syndrome traits is closely linked to insulin resistance and obesity. Five different expert groups published proposed criteria
