Chapter 13: Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, risk, study, insulin, women, associated, glucose, studies, risk type, metabolic, syndrome, men, age


gradient between the number of metabolic syndrome traits and diabetes risk. In the Framingham Offspring Study, among middle-aged men and women, the prevalence of ATP3 metabolic syndrome was 26.8% in men and 16.6% in women (269). Over 8 years of follow-up, compared with those with no metabolic syndrome traits, men with one or two traits had a fourfold increased risk of type 2 diabetes, and those with three or more traits had a 24-fold increased risk of diabetes. Among women, those with one or two traits had a sixfold increased risk of type 2 diabetes, and those with three or more traits had a thirtyfold increased risk of diabetes. The metabolic syndrome includes the category of IFG, itself a major type 2 diabetes risk factor. However, even individuals without IFG as part of their metabolic syndrome phenotype are at elevated diabetes risk. In the Framingham offspring, 13% of individuals had a large waist circumference and any other pair of traits not including IFG; this phenotype was associated with a fivefold increased risk of diabetes. Ten percent had high triglycerides, hypertension, and low HDL cholesterol, but not IFG or a large waist circumference; this phenotype was associ­ ated with a 3.5-fold increased relative risk of type 2 diabetes. When combined in prediction models for future risk of type 2 diabetes, metabolic syndrome traits have excellent discrimi­ natory capacity. The ability of a prediction model to discriminate among individuals who will and will not develop disease in the future can be assessed by the model’s c-statistic, or area under the receiver- operator-characteristic curve (aROC). The aROC is a function of the model’s sensitivity (the probability that the model correctly identifies an individual with a subsequent outcome, or the true positive rate) and false positive rate. The aROC is the probability that a model correctly discriminates subjects developing an outcome from those without an outcome, where 0.5 is chance discrimination and 1.0 is perfect discrimination. In the FHS, a diabetes prediction model incorporating ATP3 metabolic syndrome traits, age, sex, and parental history of diabetes had an aROC of 0.85 (203). All FHS subjects are white; metabolic syndrome traits discriminated diabetes risk similarly in the biracial ARIC study (aROC 0.80) and TABLE 13.8. Prevalence of the Metabolic Syndrome and Odds Ratios for Prevalence of the Metabolic Syndrome Among Adults Age ≥20 Years, by Selected Characteristics, U.S., 2003–2006 CHARACTERISTICS PERCENT (SE) ODDS RATIO (95% CI)
