Chapter
KEYWORDS: medicine, cam, use, medical, patients, traditional, treatment, conventional, cost, health, countries, study, care, pain, alternative


Complementary and Alternative Medicine Haile T. Debas, Ramanan Laxminarayan, and Stephen E. Straus The objective of medicine is to address people’s unavoidable such as cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, hypertension, needs for emotional and physical healing. The discipline has depression, and use of tobacco and other addictive sub- evolved over millennia by drawing on the religious beliefs and stances. Because lifestyle, diet, obesity, lack of exercise, and social structures of numerous indigenous peoples,by exploit- stress are important contributing factors in the causation of ing natural products in their environments,and more recently these noncommunicable diseases, CAM and TM approaches by developing and validating therapeutic and preventive to these factors in particular will be increasingly important approaches using the scientific method. Public health and for the development of future health care strategies for the medical practices have now advanced to a point at which developing world. people can anticipate—and even feel entitled to—lives that are longer and of better quality than ever before in human history. Yet despite the pervasiveness, power, and promise of con- DEFINITIONS AND DOMAINS OF temporary medical science,large segments ofhumanity either COMPLEMENTARY AND ALTERNATIVE cannot access its benefits or choose not to do so. More than MEDICINEAND TRADITIONAL MEDICINE 80 percent of people in developing nations can barely afford the most basic medical procedures,drugs,and vaccines.In the We refer to medical practices that evolved with indigenous industrial nations, a surprisingly large proportion of people peoples and that they have introduced to other countries opt for practices and products for which proofas to their safety through emigration as traditional medicine. We refer to and efficacy is modest at best,practices that in the aggregate are approaches that emerged primarily in Western, industrial known as complementary and alternative medicine(CAM) or as countriesduringthepasttwocenturiesasscientificorWestern traditional medicine(TM). medicine, although we acknowledge that not all Western Much of this book considers the formidable challenges to medicine is based on scientifically proven knowledge. The advancing human health through the further dispersion of terms complementary and alternative describe practices and effective and economical medical practices.This chapter con- productsthatpeoplechooseasadjunctstoorasalternativesto siders both proven and unproven but popular CAM and TM Westernmedicalapproaches.Increasingly,thetermsCAMand approaches and attempts to portray their current and potential TM are being used interchangeably (Kaptchuk and Eisenberg place in the overall practice ofmedicine. 2001;Straus2004). With globalization, the pattern of disease in developing Endless varieties ofpractices are scientifically unproven and countries is changing. Unlike in the past, when communica- poorly accepted by
