Chapter
KEYWORDS: medicine, cam, use, medical, patients, traditional, treatment, conventional, cost, health, countries, study, care, pain, alternative


practice ofmedicine. 2001;Straus2004). With globalization, the pattern of disease in developing Endless varieties ofpractices are scientifically unproven and countries is changing. Unlike in the past, when communica- poorly accepted by medical authorities.For the sake oforgan- somewhat overlapping domains ( Table 69.1 Estimated Use of CAM and TM by Patients and whatiscam)as follows: Practitioners Worldwide • Biologicallybasedpractices.Theseincludeuseofavastarray Region or country Extent of use ofvitaminsandmineralsupplements,naturalproductssuch Africa Used by 80 percent of the population for primary cartilage; herbals, such as ginkgo biloba and echinacea; Australia Used by 49 percent of adults approachtoweightlossespousedbythelateRobertAtkins. Fully integrated into the health system • Manipulative and body-based approaches. These kinds of 95 percent of Chinese hospitals have TM units approaches, which include massage, have been used India Widely used throughout history.In the 19th century,additional formal 2,860 hospitals provide TM manipulativedisciplinesemergedintheUnitedStates:chi- Indonesia Used by 40 percent of the entire population ropractic medicine and osteopathic medicine. Both origi- Used by 70 percent of the rural population natedinanattempttorelievestructuralforcesonvertebrae Japan 72 percent of physicians practice TM andspinalnerverootsthatpractitionersperceivedasevok- ingapanoplyofillnessesbeyondmeremusculoskeletalpain. • Mind-body medicine. Many ancient cultures assumed that Vietnam Fully integrated into the health care system the mind exerts powerful influences on bodily functions and 30 percent of the population is treated with TM vice versa. Attempts to reassert proper harmony between Western countries CAM and TM not strongly integrated into the health these bodily systems led to the development of mind-body care system medicine,an array ofapproaches that incorporate spiritual, France: at least 75 percent of the population has used CAM at least once meditative,and relaxation techniques. • Alternative medical systems. Whereas the ancient Greeks Germany:77percentofpainclinicsprovideacupuncture CAM Asian cultures considered that health depends on the bal- ance and flow ofvital energies through the body.This latter Source:WHO 2002. theory underlies the practice of acupuncture,for example, which asserts that vital energy flow can be restored by summarizednumeroussurveysofuse(table69.1).Indeveloping placing needles at critical body points. nations,TMisthesolesourceofhealthcareforallbuttheprivi- • Energy medicine.This approach uses therapies that involve leged few. By contrast, in affluent countries individuals select the use of energy—either biofield- or bioelectromagnetic- CAMapproachesaccordingtotheirspecificbeliefs.Forexample, based interventions.An example ofthe former is Reiki ther- asmanyas60percentofthoselivinginFrance,Germany,andthe apy,which aims to realign and strengthen healthful energies United Kingdom consume homeopathic or herbal products. throughtheinterventionofenergiesradiatingfromthehands Only1to2percentofAmericansusehomeopathy,but10percent ofa master healer. ofadultsuseherbalmedicines,8percentvisitchiropractors,and 1to2percentundergoacupunctureeveryyear(Ni,Simile,and Alternative systems of medicine use elements from each of Hardy2002).UseofCAMandTMamongpatientswithchron- these CAM and TM domains.For example,traditional Chinese ic,painful,debilitating,orfatalconditions,suchasHIV/AIDS medicine incorporates acupuncture,herbal medicines,special and cancer, is far higher, ranging from 50 to 90 percent diets,and meditative exercises
