Chapter
KEYWORDS: medicine, cam, use, medical, patients, traditional, treatment, conventional, cost, health, countries, study, care, pain, alternative


prostatic hypertrophy Positive B Gerber and others 2001 Acupuncture Relieving arthritis pain Positive B Berman and others 1999 Relieving the pain of tooth extraction Positive B Lao and others 1995 Treating hypertension Mixed C Chiu, Chi, and Reid 1995 Relieving nausea from chemotherapy Positive A Shen and others 2000 Relieving addiction withdrawal Mixed B Margolin and others 2002 Treating asthma Negative B Linde,Jobst, and Panton 2000 Meditation Decreasing anxiety Positive B Speca and others 2000 Decreasing blood pressure Mixed B Schneider and others 1995 Biofeedback Preventing migraine Positive B Holroyd and Penzien 1990 Homeopathy Treating asthma Mixed B White and others 2003 Treating gastroenteritis Positive C Jacobs and others 2003 Magnet therapy Treating plantar fasciitis Negative B Winemiller and others 2003 Chiropractic Treating lower back pain Positive B Cherkin and others 2003 Source:Authors. A(cid:1)multiplehigh-quality,randomized,controlledtrials;B(cid:1)singlehigh-qualitytrialsorsmaller,lessrigoroustrials;C(cid:1)weakerclinicaltrials;Mixed(cid:1)conflictingresultsamongstudiesofsimilarquality. to ¢3,000 (US$1.30 to US$2.00 in 1997), treatment at home come. The availability of an outcome-contingent contract using drugs bought from pharmacies or health care workers favors TM over Western medicine when the disease condition ranged between ¢200 and ¢1,000 (US$0.10 to US$0.70), and requires providers to both exert effort in curing patients and treatment by an herbalist was virtually free (Ahorlu and others induce patients to comply with their recommendations. 1997). Nonetheless,thisstrategymaybedifficulttoapplytothelarger Another common misconception is that the poor are more health care system. likely to use TM.At least one study shows that this may not be Furthermore, patients tend to seek care from traditional true.In Zimbabwe,the mean monthlyincome of households healers for conditions such as mental illness, impotence, and visiting an herbalist,Z$877,was greater than the mean monthly chronic disorders, which they perceive as requiring greater income of households using government clinics, Z$718 involvement by the extended family and kinship group. (Winston and Patel 1995). Accordingly, the availability of financial support for seeking Although some traditional healers charge more than con- treatments for these disorders is greater than it is for illnesses ventional practitioners, their fees may be negotiable, the such as malaria or diarrhea,for which patients more often seek method of payment may be flexible (often on credit or in conventional treatment. 1284 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Haile T. Debas, Ramanan Laxminarayan, and Stephen E. Straus Few published data are available on the financial costs of Economic Evidence TM in low- and middle-income countries.The data presented AlthoughmoststudiestendtofocusonaspecificCAMorTM here on the use of traditional healers are extracted from the practice, Sommer,
