Chapter
KEYWORDS: medicine, cam, use, medical, patients, traditional, treatment, conventional, cost, health, countries, study, care, pain, alternative


to evaluate their follow-up. Overall, the investigators from the Royal London Homeopathic Hospital since the onset found that complementary medicine was between 53 and of care, a third had halted their conventional treatment and 63 percent less expensive than conventional medicine for another third had reduced their intake of conventional med- achieving equivalent levels of effectiveness. Complementary ication (vanHaselen 2000).2The extent to which homeopathic medicine was especially cost-effective for osteoarthritis,hyper- treatment displaced conventional treatment varied by indica- tension,facial paralysis,and peptic ulcers. tion. The use of homeopathic treatment often replaced con- The rest of this section looks at the economic evidence on ventional treatments in patients with skin and respiratory specific forms ofCAM or TM. infections;in patients with cancer,its use was purely comple- mentary and therefore added to overall health care costs. Acupuncture. Lindall’s (1999) study finds that an acupunc- Thomas and others (1991) observe that patients who use ture referral for musculoskeletal conditions costs a mean of CAM and TM also commonly access conventional medical US$422,roughly 60 percent less than the cost of referral to a care. In industrial countries, most CAM usage complements Western practitioner.However,this study was not randomized, conventional care, but this is also common in developing and patients had to have failed first-line drug treatment before nations.For instance,Mwabu (1986) provides evidence from being offered the choice of second line-treatment,either with Kenya that patients are likely to use more than one type of acupuncture or with Western medicine. provider from the range ofthose available,such as government facilities,mission clinics,private clinics,pharmacies,and tradi- tional healers.Furthermore,the choice ofprovider depends on Homeopathy. Evidence indicates that the cost ofhomeopathic patients’ illness, condition, socioeconomic status, and educa- medication is lower than the average cost of allopathic prod- tion.If an initial visit to one kind of provider did not resolve ucts,which would be an economic factor in favor of its use if the disease satisfactorily,a follow-up visit was made to a differ- homeopathy were proven to be effective. A study by the efficiency of service and waiting time at government and pri- drug costs associated with homeopathy were lower than those vate clinics—is an important determinant ofwhether patients ofallopathic practitioners .A four-year study of choose to go to traditional healers.Most traditional healers sur- 100 patients that compared homeopathic drug costs with those veyed in a second study referred patients to Western practices of conventional drugs found an average cost saving of US$96 for treatment when necessary
