Chapter
KEYWORDS: medicine, cam, use, medical, patients, traditional, treatment, conventional, cost, health, countries, study, care, pain, alternative


the control group. nal plants may be important determinants ofwhether a certain However, other larger and better-controlled studies failed species will survive .In addition to the biodiversity tofindadifferencebetweenchiropracticandphysicaltherapy value of these saved species,scientists may be able to analyze in terms of either outcomes or costs (Cherkin and others these plants for potential clinical application on a broader scale 1998; Skargren and others 1997; Skargren, Carlsson, and than TM permits.Although preserving traditional knowledge Oberg 1998).A study of adults with low back pain who were of healing practices helps preserve the culture and identity of randomlyassignedtophysicaltherapyorchiropracticmanip- indigenous populations,CAM and TM may impose significant ulation or were just given an educational booklet found no costs. In such instances, promoting conventional treatments significant differences in either the mean costs of care or the that do not depend on endangered species may bring impor- outcomes between the physical therapy and chiropractic tant benefits to society. groups(Cherkinandothers1998).Three-quartersof thepar- ticipants in these groups—who incurred costs of roughly US$430overthetwo-yearperiodof thestudy—reportedthat EXPANDING THE BENEFICIAL USE OF their outcome was either good or excellent,compared with a COMPLEMENTARY AND ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE thirdofthosewhowereassignedbooklets;however,themean AND TRADITIONAL MEDICINE cost of care for the booklet group was only US$153 for the two-yearperiod. Despite the uncertainty about the clinical efficacy and cost- effectiveness of certain CAM and TM practices,expansion of Mind-Body Treatments. Little evidence is available on the their use in instances in which moderate evidence oftheir effi- thecostofacquiringtheskillsrequiredforthesepractices,aswell social,and economic benefits.A number of surveys show that asthetimecostsofpracticingthem,aresolowrelativetocon- local pharmacies are the primary source oftreatment for many ventionalmedicinethatevidenceof theirclinicaleffectiveness ailments,especially in rural areas where government or private mightsufficetojustifytheiruseoneconomicgrounds.Available clinics are less accessible. In these situations, improving the evidence from clinical studies suggests that mind-body treat- quality of TM might serve as an effective substitute for allow- mentscanbecost-effective(Caudillandothers1991;Friedman ing the unregulated use of conventional medical treatments. and others 1995; Hellman and others 1990; Sobel 1995). Training traditional healers is substantially less expensive than Blumenthalandothers(2002)findsignificantdeclinesincoro- training doctors or nurses. A study of 52 traditional healers naryeventsandinpredictedcostsofcareforpatientswhowere interviewed as part of a survey in Kenya estimated that the assigned to a one-and-a-half-hour long weekly class on stress average out-of-pocket (cash) costs of training to be a tradi- management,relativetousualcareforeachofthefirsttwoyears tional healer were K Sh 418 (US$40 in 1981) (Mwabu, offollow-upandafterfiveyears. Ainsworth,and Nyamete 1993). 1286 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Haile T. Debas, Ramanan Laxminarayan, and Stephen E. Straus Traditional healers can also be recruited into a more
