Chapter
KEYWORDS: medicine, cam, use, medical, patients, traditional, treatment, conventional, cost, health, countries, study, care, pain, alternative


Ainsworth,and Nyamete 1993). 1286 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Haile T. Debas, Ramanan Laxminarayan, and Stephen E. Straus Traditional healers can also be recruited into a more broadly Recognizingtheredistributivenatureof investmentinTM additional training, traditional healers can serve as primary tional healers because of proximity, familiarity, and trust. health care workers and provide advice on such Investments in TM could therefore be used strategically to matters as sexually transmitted diseases and oral rehydration increase access to conventional preventive and therapeutic therapy (Nations and de Souza 1997;Nations and others 1988; care.Includingthetraditionalhealeraspartofthehealthcare Ndubani and Hojer 1999). In addition, permitting access to team may thus be an important strategy both to attract CAM and TM within the context of the conventional health patients and to upgrade the skills and training of traditional care system would facilitate access to multiple health services at healers. one location. How equity is affected by the proportions in which different ComprehensivepolicyonCAMandTMislackinginmost condition-specific interventions are combined and how other countries,including the United States.According to the 1994 interventions (regulations,tax policy,managerial changes) are and Drug Administration cannot require proof that dietary ity ofindigenous populations in developing countries use TM theyaresold,althoughitischargedwithrequiringgoodman- ability ofTM,including herbal medicines,should be ensured as ufacturingpractices.Thequalityofherbalproductsisnotreg- a matter of equity.One way to do this is by supporting local ulated, and herbal products typically differ from source to production of safe and effective herbals such as artemisia at source and from batch to batch in terms of their component affordable prices.In addition,rigorous research on TM should ingredients and respective amounts and in terms of whether be supported. WHO is currently conducting collaborative they contain contaminants. In the United States, no single studies on herbal treatments for HIV/AIDS,malaria,sickle cell entity is responsible for all aspects of CAM and TM control, anemia, and diabetes. Ineffective or unsafe herbal products education,information,andresearch,andnonational,volun- identified by such studies should be removed from use,while tarysystemof self-regulationexists.Nationalnongovernmen- those with proven efficacy and safety should be made available tal organizations, such as the Accreditation Commission for for therapeutic use. Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine, the American Board of MedicalAcupuncture,theCouncilof ChiropracticEducation, theCouncilof HomeopathicEducation,andtheCommission LESSONS LEARNED AND IMPLEMENTATION on Massage Therapy Accreditation, accredit education in not exist in many developing countries. Nearly all countries varies greatly from country to country.For example,in China, lackrigorousresearchtrainingprogramsinCAMandTM. where traditional Chinese medicine is well integrated into the CAMandTMisusedprimarilybypoorer,uneducatedpopu- given condition.In the United States,by contrast,CAM pro- lations,whileinindustrialcountriesitisusedmorebyaffluent grams are slowly being integrated with conventional medicine. and better-educated
