Chapter
KEYWORDS: medicine, cam, use, medical, patients, traditional, treatment, conventional, cost, health, countries, study, care, pain, alternative


China, lackrigorousresearchtrainingprogramsinCAMandTM. where traditional Chinese medicine is well integrated into the CAMandTMisusedprimarilybypoorer,uneducatedpopu- given condition.In the United States,by contrast,CAM pro- lations,whileinindustrialcountriesitisusedmorebyaffluent grams are slowly being integrated with conventional medicine. and better-educated segments of the population (Eisenberg Several medical schools have nascent CAM programs and have and others 1998). In both settings, relatively little evidence integrated them into medical school curricula to differing supports this view.Many investigators have failed to critically degrees. One of the more acclaimed programs of this kind assess the use of CAM and TM by minority and immigrant in the United States is that developed by Andrew Weil at the population uses TM,often as the only way to obtain pri- Integrative Medicine Fellowship Program trains physicians in tries often use TM . Investments in improving whereby physicians,patients,and nurses form a healing team the quality and consistency of TM could reduce the cost of for the care of the patient.However,this program needs to be arthritic pain and AIDS, where TM interventions may be urged. improvepatients’senseof well-being,appetite,andenergy.At Despite the complexity, diversity, and controversy thesametime,intheabsenceofresourcestoextendthepublic surrounding CAM/TM approaches, some notable success providers could provide the infrastructure for delivering modalities discovered in the developing world have been programs. versa. Complementary and Alternative Medicine | 1287 Artemisinin The second success story is research showing that chiro- practic manipulation for low back pain is superior to bed rest, Artemisinin is a recently developed, active metabolite of physical therapy, or provision of an educational booklet artemisia, an herbal extract that has been used in China for (Cherkin and others 1998).Chiropractic manipulation has also centuries to treat fever.Chinese scientists determined the active shown results comparable to those achieved with nonsteroidal, ingredient ofthe herbal in the 1970s,and Western pharmaceu- anti-inflammatory drugs in alleviating back pain . tical companies have developed several derivatives as drugs for use against resistant Plasmodiummalaria (Li and others 2000). Homeopathy dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine, is effective against drug- Homeopathy is a success in terms ofits broad appeal and use, resistant Plasmodium falciparum malaria (Hien and Dolecek not because of the strength of evidence supporting it.Indeed, 2004).Another artemisinin derivative, artesunate, was shown few conventional scientists and physicians find homeopathy to to increase parasite clearance and reduce the gametocyte count be plausible.According to the “principle of similars”underly- when added to existing drugs to combat malaria (Adjuik and ing homeopathy, practitioners choose remedies that, when others 2004). given in high concentrations, produce symptoms similar to those that the patient
