Chapter
KEYWORDS: medicine, cam, use, medical, patients, traditional, treatment, conventional, cost, health, countries, study, care, pain, alternative


to arise Mind-Body Intervention because of abnormal alignment of or stresses on vertebrae, most often in patients with musculoskeletal complaints. Two The work of David Spiegel at Stanford University on group aspects ofchiropractic medicine are success stories.First,even support for breast cancer patients excited wide interest in the though practitioners ofconventional medicine ostracized prac- potential value ofmind-body interventions (Spiegel and others titioners ofchiropractic medicine in the late 19th century and 1989). The study was a randomized controlled trial with a the first halfofthe 20th century,it has gradually evolved into a 10-year follow-up involving 86 women with metastasized viable healing discipline that is increasingly accepted by the breast cancer.A one-year psychosocial intervention consisting conventional medicine community. The evolution of chiro- ofweekly supportive group therapy with self-hypnosis for pain practic can be compared with that of osteopathy.Osteopathy showed that the mean survival time in the treated group was was developed in the United States in parallel with chiroprac- 37 months,compared with 19 months for the control group. tic,but the field elected to accommodate rather than reject allo- Moreover,Spiegel (1994) notes that appropriate psychotherapy pathic techniques. (both group and individual) not only reduced depression and 1288 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Haile T. Debas, Ramanan Laxminarayan, and Stephen E. Straus anxiety and improved coping skills, but also saved money by should be no different from those used in conventional bio- reducing the number of office visits,diagnostic tests,medical medical research. benefits of mind-body intervention and have led to studies of their particular approaches so that they can work together in possible mechanisms through which such interventions may ways that ensure the best possible care for their patients and the operate. achievement of their shared goals of improved individual and could devote additional resources to studying those CAM and THE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AGENDA TM approaches that appear to be the most promising in rela- tion to their most pressing public health problems.Some pri- The lack ofproduct quality and consistency and the absence of ority areas for CAM and TM research are widely applicable, compelling data on the safety and efficacy of most CAM and including studies of approaches to palliate chronic pain and TM approaches present major challenges to any effort to opti- suffering,relieve depression,help release the grip of addictive culties also pose opportunities for research.Other formidable such as arthritis and dementia. challenges include the variability in training,credentialing,and licensing CAM and TM
