Chapter
KEYWORDS: medicine, cam, use, medical, patients, traditional, treatment, conventional, cost, health, countries, study, care, pain, alternative


opti- suffering,relieve depression,help release the grip of addictive culties also pose opportunities for research.Other formidable such as arthritis and dementia. challenges include the variability in training,credentialing,and licensing CAM and TM practitioners.Increasingly,efforts are being made in several countries to regulate both products and NOTES practitioners.Ultimately,stringent controls on training,prac- tices, and products must be complemented by rigorous 1.Because some individuals had gone to more than one provider dur- ing the four-week period,the total comes to more than 10,033. research to ascertain which approaches are safe and effective— 2. The median duration of current treatment at the Royal London and for which indications. Homeopathic Hospital was three years. The global use and potential effect of CAM and TM 3.This study did not take into account the costs ofphysician time,the costs oflaboratory tests,or patients’costs. practices,the lack of adequate data validating their safety and efficacy,and the existence ofhighly effective conventional alter- natives for many of them dictate that resources should be devoted to fuller characterization and standardization ofCAM REFERENCES and TM approaches.Investing precious resources in integrat- Adjuik,M.,A.Babiker,P.Garner,P.Olliaro,W.Taylor,and N.White.2004. ing such approaches further into health care infrastructures “Artesunate Combinations for Treatment ofMalaria:Meta-Analysis.” can be justified only on the basis ofcompelling data.This point Lancet363 (9402):9–17. leads to the question of what constitutes a rational agenda for Ahorlu,C.K.,S.K.Dunyo,E.A.Afari,K.A.Koran,and F.K.Nkrumah. this work. 1997. “Malaria-Related Beliefs and Behavior in Southern Ghana: Implications for Treatment, Prevention, and Control.” Tropical For resource-rich industrial nations, one model for CAM Medicine and International Health2 (5):488–99. and TM research is that being implemented by the National Astin, J.A. 1998.“Why Patients Use Alternative Medicine: Results of a Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine National Study.”Journal ofthe American Medical Association279 (19): (NCCAM) of the U.S. National Institutes of Health (http:// 1549–53. nccam.nih.gov). In 2004, NCCAM planned to invest US$117 Barnes,J.,K.L.Resch,andE.Ernst.1997.“HomeopathyforPostoperative Ileus?AMeta-Analysis.”JournalofClinicalGastroenterology25:628–33. million in research and research training.It is supporting some Barrett,B.2003.“Medicinal Properties of Echinacea:A Critical Review.” 800 individual projects at present, including studies of the Phytomedicine10:66–86. composition of natural products and their pharmacological Berman,B.M.,B.B.Singh,L.Lao,P.Langenberg,H.Li,V.Hadhazy,and effects,studies ofthe neurobiological mechanisms ofacupunc- others.1999.“A Randomized Trial of Acupuncture as an Adjunctive participants.NCCAM now has a strategic plan for its interna- Blumenthal,J.A.,M.Babyak,J.Wei,C.O’Connor,R.Waugh,E.Eisenstein, and others. 2002.“Usefulness of Psychosocial Treatment of Mental tional programs that emphasizes research,training,and efforts Stress-Induced Myocardial Ischemia in Men.” American Journal of to learn about the rich, indigenous TM heritage. Australia, Cardiology89 (2):164–68. through a government agency similar to NCCAM,is conduct- Caudill,M.,R.Schnable,P.Zuttermeister,H.Benson,and R.Friedman. ing research and training programs in collaboration
