Paget’s Disease of Bone
KEYWORDS: disease, paget, bone, paget disease, pubmed, patients, disease bone, treatment, activity, increased, pain, associated, free, pmc free, article


for up to six and a half years in most patients. Indications for treatment include bone pain, hypercalcemia, neurologic deficits with vertebral disease, congestive heart failure, preparation for orthopedic surgery, and prevention of complications such as hearing loss and deformity. Surgery most commonly is needed for lower extremity joint replacement and correction of deformities of the lower extremity. The etiology remains somewhat controversial with some studies indicating a role for measles virus. The observation that the prevalence of the disease has decreased could be explained by the introduction of measles vaccine in 1963. Clearly genetic factors also play a role. Mutations in the sequestosome 1 gene produce susceptibility to develop Paget’s disease but not all family members with the mutation develop Paget’s disease. Many other gene abnormalities may also increase disease susceptibility. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG. HISTORICAL ASPECTS In 1876, Sir James Paget ( Figure 1 ), a prominent English surgeon, described five men who had at least two deformed areas of the skeleton ( 1 ). His description of the disorder he called osteitis deformans included clinical features, and gross and histologic pathology. He believed he was describing a rare inflammatory disorder, but by the start of the new century, numerous publications describing similar patients appeared in England, France, and the United States. A small number of reports also came from Australia, Germany, Holland, Italy, and Sweden. By this time, the condition commonly became known as Paget's disease of bone. Figure 1. The bust of Sir James Paget in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Further realization that Paget's disease was not a rare disorder came about after the discovery of X-rays in 1895 by Roentgen. It was then possible to detect affected bones, which exhibited no external manifestations of the disease. The first X-ray report appeared in 1896 ( 2 ) and osteolytic disease was recognized by1901 ( 3 ). The first biochemical marker of Paget's disease was recognized in 1929 by Kay ( 4 ). He reported elevated alkaline phosphatase activity in the patients' sera. Over time, it came to be appreciated that serum alkaline phosphatase activity could reach higher levels in Paget's disease than in any other disorder. EPIDEMIOLOGY The distribution of Paget's disease throughout the world is one of its most striking features. While commonly found in the population of England, the United
