Paget’s Disease of Bone
KEYWORDS: disease, paget, bone, paget disease, pubmed, patients, disease bone, treatment, activity, increased, pain, associated, free, pmc free, article


in any other disorder. EPIDEMIOLOGY The distribution of Paget's disease throughout the world is one of its most striking features. While commonly found in the population of England, the United States, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, South Africa, and France, it appears to be rare throughout Asia and Scandinavia. Estimates of the prevalence in individual British cities even suggest a striking variability within one country ( 5 ). Analysis of hospital radiographs indicated prevalence ranging from 2.3% in Aberdeen, Scotland to 8% in Lancaster, England. Recently analysis of 1000 CT scans of the abdomen revealed a striking decrease in prevalence to 0.8% in the Lancashire region ( 6 ). The most recent prevalence estimate in the United States is 1-2% ( 7 ), and in France is 1.1-1.8% ( 8 ). In many countries the prevalence of Paget’s disease appears to have decreased ( 9 - 13 ) although this has not been observed in Italy ( 14 ) or in the Salamanca province of Spain ( 15 ). It is particularly difficult to obtain a true estimate of prevalence in a population as serum alkaline phosphatase activity may be elevated in as few as 14% of individuals with x-ray evidence of Paget’s disease ( 16 ). Paget's disease probably occurs equally often in men and women and clearly increases in prevalence with age ( 17 ). The diagnosis is nearly always determined in individuals over the age of 50 years. The prevalence in the past approached 10% by 90 years and affected individuals are rarely discovered before 20 years. The occurrence of Paget's disease in more than one member of a family was first reported in 1883 ( 18 ). Analysis of numerous kindreds indicates an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance ( 19 ). A positive family history of Paget's disease was reported in nearly 15% of patients in two large studies ( 20 , 21 ). In a clinic in Spain, 40% of the patients had at least one first-degree relative with Paget's disease after screening with bone scans ( 22 ). Gene analysis of Paget's disease kindreds will be discussed subsequently. CLINICAL FEATURES Paget's disease is a localized disorder of the skeleton with a wide range of skeletal involvement. One bone was affected in 5% of patients whereas the average number of lesions was about 6.5 per patient in a series of 197 patients ( 23 ). In
