Paget’s Disease of Bone
KEYWORDS: disease, paget, bone, paget disease, pubmed, patients, disease bone, treatment, activity, increased, pain, associated, free, pmc free, article


involvement. One bone was affected in 5% of patients whereas the average number of lesions was about 6.5 per patient in a series of 197 patients ( 23 ). In a more recent study younger patients had a 47% prevalence of monostotic disease while 28% of older patients had monostotic disease ( 24 ). In patients with familial disease there may be somewhat more bones affected than in patients with sporadic disease ( 25 ). Deformity A common feature of Paget's disease is skeletal deformity. This clearly evolves over a period of many years (probably decades) in most patients. The deformity is most visible in the skull and lower extremities. Asymmetric enlargement of the cranium may first come to attention in those individuals who notice an increase in hat size. An increase in the size of superficial scalp veins, best appreciated over the frontal and temporal bones, is not uncommon. In patients with cranial enlargement, hearing loss is a common complication. Hearing loss correlates with loss of bone mineral density in the cochlear capsule ( 26 ). Inexplicably, despite the common skull involvement, Paget's disease is quite unusual in the facial bones. Facial disfigurement may be a consequence of enlargement of the maxilla and/or mandible and can be accompanied by spreading of the teeth, malocclusion, and loss of teeth ( 27 ). One or, less often, two clavicles may become enlarged. An enlarged scapula is uncommonly appreciated perhaps because of its location. The spine is a common source of morbidity from Paget's disease. The lumbar vertebrae and sacrum are most frequently affected. A single vertebra or multiple vertebrae may be involved. Over time, the vertebrae generally enlarge, but in some instances, vertebral compression may produce significant kyphosis. Although Paget's disease is commonly found to affect the pelvis, only in its most severe form is it apparent on physical examination that the bone is thicker than normal. It is much easier to detect in the extremities, particularly when bowing of the femur and/or tibia is present ( Figure 2 ). An increase in skin temperature is more readily detected over the tibia, a reflection of increased blood flow to the bone and surrounding soft tissue. Bowing of the upper extremity long bones is much less common than in the lower extremity, presumably because these are not weight-bearing bones. Figure 2. Typical bowing of the leg due to Paget's disease involving the
