Paget’s Disease of Bone
KEYWORDS: disease, paget, bone, paget disease, pubmed, patients, disease bone, treatment, activity, increased, pain, associated, free, pmc free, article


bones is much less common than in the lower extremity, presumably because these are not weight-bearing bones. Figure 2. Typical bowing of the leg due to Paget's disease involving the right tibia. Pathological fractures in the lower extremity are most likely to occur in the femur and typically are transverse in nature ( Figure 3 ). They are much more likely to result in nonunion than are tibial fractures ( 28 ). Figure 3. Transverse fracture of the left femur. Pain Pain is a quite common symptom in patients with Paget's disease. It may be of skeletal, joint, neurologic, or muscle origin. Surprisingly, bone pain is usually absent even in patients with extensive disease or, when present, is mild to moderate in severity. The pain is usually dull in quality and often persists during the night. Weight bearing seldom produces a significant increase in bone pain. Severe pain in a patient with Paget's disease is most likely to be due to osteoarthritis. This commonly occurs in the hip joint. Deterioration of the cartilage can occur when Paget's disease affects the acetabulum alone ( Figure 4 ), but is likely to be more severe when both the acetabulum and head of the femur are affected by Paget's disease. If the femoral head is the only site of the disease, osteoarthritis is a less likely complication. A major feature of the pain in these patients is a significant increase in severity with weight bearing. In some patients, the combination of pain and impaired motion of the joint severely limits mobility. Knee pain and joint effusion may be prominent features in patients with bowing of the tibia. Back pain due to osteoarthritis also occurs in association with Paget's disease ( Figure 5 ). Pain from osteoarthritis of the shoulder joint is relatively uncommon. Figure 4. Paget's disease involving the left hemipelvis and right femur. There is severe osteoarthritis of the left hip but a relatively normal joint space in the right hip. The most severe chronic pain in patients with Paget's disease is probably of neurologic origin. Pain from compression of the spinal cord or nerve roots may follow from enlargement of the vertebral bodies, pedicles, or laminae as well as from compression fractures. Pain from this source is more likely to arise from Paget's disease affecting the thoracic spine. Figure 5. Patient with back pain who has multiple vertebrae affected by Paget's
