Paget’s Disease of Bone
KEYWORDS: disease, paget, bone, paget disease, pubmed, patients, disease bone, treatment, activity, increased, pain, associated, free, pmc free, article


fractures. Pain from this source is more likely to arise from Paget's disease affecting the thoracic spine. Figure 5. Patient with back pain who has multiple vertebrae affected by Paget's disease, large osteophytes, and narrowed disc spaces. In a number of individuals, the weight of the skull may be so great that they have difficulty in keeping the head erect. This can produce neck pain and tension headaches due to muscle spasm. Deformity of the spine may also be associated with intermittent pain due to spasm of the paravertebral muscles. RADIOLOGY The radiologic features of Paget's disease include osteolytic, osteosclerotic, and mixed lesions. The earliest lesions are osteolytic in character and are most readily appreciated in the skull ( Figure 6 ). Circumscribed osteolytic skull lesions were called "osteoporosis circumscripta" by Schuller ( 29 ). These most often are seen in the frontal and occipital regions and with time may slowly coalesce. The other region where osteolytic lesions are commonly observed is the long bones of the lower extremity. The lesions usually arise at either end of the bone, seldom in the diaphysis. At the junction of the lesion with normal bone, the osteolytic lesion has the shape of a flame or inverted V ( Figure 7 ). Such lesions have been noted to extend into normal bone at an average rate of about 1 cm per year ( 30 ). Figure 6. Large osteolytic lesion in the skull of a woman with Paget's disease. Figure 7. Osteolytic lesion of the distal left femur which is progressing proximally. A heterogeneous region of osteosclerotic bone slowly develops in areas of the skeleton previously exhibiting a purely osteolytic character. This can be readily seen in long bones where the advancing front of osteolysis is trailed by patchy sclerosis superimposed on the earlier osteolytic process. With more time, the character of the bone may evolve into a dominant osteosclerotic appearance. This is often accompanied by periosteal new bone formation, which results in an increase in circumference of the bone. In the first observations reported by Paget, the thickness of the calvarium was fourfold greater than normal in one patient ( 1 ). The most severe skull involvement may be associated with basilar impression ( Figure 8 ) which can produce compression of the structures in the posterior fossa resulting in ataxia, muscle weakness, and respiratory distress. With the evolution of the sclerotic phase
