Paget’s Disease of Bone
KEYWORDS: disease, paget, bone, paget disease, pubmed, patients, disease bone, treatment, activity, increased, pain, associated, free, pmc free, article


( Figure 8 ) which can produce compression of the structures in the posterior fossa resulting in ataxia, muscle weakness, and respiratory distress. With the evolution of the sclerotic phase of the disease, the lower extremity long bones often exhibit lateral and anterior bowing. Another radiologic feature in the long bones of the lower extremity is the presence of linear transverse radiolucencies in the cortex of the convex aspect of the bowed bone. These have been termed fissure fractures. Multiple fissure fractures may be seen. Although they usually remain stable, a small percent progress to complete transverse fractures. Figure 8. Far advanced Paget's disease of the skull. Note the thickened inner and outer tables, the chaotic new bone deposition termed cotton-wool patch, and basilar impression. It has been observed that after a dominant sclerotic lesion has developed, there may be secondary osteolytic lesions superimposed upon the sclerotic bone. These are most readily seen as clefts in the cortex of the long bones. Computerized tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are generally not needed in the evaluation of most patients ( 31 ). CT may be needed to detect subtle fractures, spinal stenosis and secondary neoplasms. MRI may be particularly useful in evaluating spinal complications. The commercial availability of a technetium99m-labeled bisphosphonate in 1974 ushered in the era of routine use of bone scans in clinical medicine ( 32 ). In patients with Paget's disease, the affected bone has increased nuclide activity five minutes after intravenous administration of the bone-seeking tracer when compared with normal bone. The nuclide activity is 3-5 times higher than in normal bone. A bone scan is a very effective means of determining the extent of the disease and is clearly more sensitive than X-rays in determining the presence of small osteolytic areas of the disease ( Figure 9 ). Since occult fractures and bone metastases may mimic some lesions of Paget's disease, it is necessary to do X-rays or CT scans of areas of increased nuclide uptake to distinguish the nature of the lesions. Very seldom is it necessary to do a bone biopsy to ascertain the diagnosis. Figure 9. A technetium 99m-bisphosphonate bone scan of a patient with polyostotic Paget's disease. In addition to the classical bone scan using a technetium-labeled bisphosphonate, gallium scans ( 33 ), fluorine-18-FDG PET scans ( 34 ), and Tl-201 scans ( 35 ) have been observed to delineate
