Paget’s Disease of Bone
KEYWORDS: disease, paget, bone, paget disease, pubmed, patients, disease bone, treatment, activity, increased, pain, associated, free, pmc free, article


the classical bone scan using a technetium-labeled bisphosphonate, gallium scans ( 33 ), fluorine-18-FDG PET scans ( 34 ), and Tl-201 scans ( 35 ) have been observed to delineate lesions of Paget's disease. In one study, the response to calcitonin treatment was more rapid with gallium scan than with a bone scan ( 33 ). PATHOLOGY Based on histological examinations of the interface of normal bone with an advancing osteolytic focus of Paget's disease, it has been concluded that the primary abnormality is a localized excess of osteoclastic bone resorption. An increased number of osteoclasts are present in Howship's lacunae in cortical and trabecular bone ( Figure 10 ). They are frequently larger than normal and may have up to 100 nuclei in a single cross-section rather than the 3-10 found in normal osteoclasts ( 36 ). With progression of osteoclastic activity in the cortex, bone volume is reduced and individual osteons become confluent. The bone volume in trabecular bone of the medullary cavities is similarly reduced by osteoclastic activity. In association with the intense osteoclastic activity, the normal fatty or hematopoietic marrow is replaced by a fibrocellular stroma, which is highly vascular. Figure 10. A bone biopsy of the iliac crest revealing an intense area of osteoclastic bone resorption. The osteoclasts are increased in size and have a greater number of nuclei than average. In the mature lesion, there is a mixture of lamellar and woven bone, which transforms the matrix into a chaotic "mosaic" pattern of irregularly juxtaposed pieces of lamellar bone, interspersed with woven bone ( Figure 11 ). The normal outer and inner circumferential lamellae and interstitial lamellae of the cortex are completely disrupted. Plump osteoblasts are found in large numbers on surfaces of new bone formation. There is an abundance of osteoid on bone surfaces but there is no increase in thickness of the osteoid seams ( 37 ). It has been noted that the size of the periosteocytic lacunae in the woven bone is greater than in the lamellar bone of Paget’s disease ( 37 ). Since this is also the finding in woven bone from non-pagetic individuals the relevance of this observation is unclear. Figure 11. A bone biopsy demonstrating the "mosaic" pattern of bone matrix in Paget's disease. Note the chaotic lamellar pattern intermixed with woven bone as demonstrated with polarized light. There is some evidence of a "burned out" phase
