Paget’s Disease of Bone
KEYWORDS: disease, paget, bone, paget disease, pubmed, patients, disease bone, treatment, activity, increased, pain, associated, free, pmc free, article


pattern of bone matrix in Paget's disease. Note the chaotic lamellar pattern intermixed with woven bone as demonstrated with polarized light. There is some evidence of a "burned out" phase of Paget's disease in which the abnormal matrix persists but cellular activity is nearly absent and the marrow space is mainly filled with fat. It is more likely that such a finding does not occur throughout an entire lesion, but is found with all stages of the disease in a single bone. Studies of the ultrastructure of osteoclasts in Paget's disease have demonstrated that many of these cells harbor microfilaments in the nucleus and occasionally, in the cytoplasm ( 38 , 39 ) ( Figure 12 ). The microfilaments have the same structural features as nucleocapsids of viruses of the Paramyxoviridae family, a family of RNA viruses known to cause childhood infections such as measles and pneumonia due to respiratory syncytial virus. The nucleocapsid-like structures have not been found in osteoblasts, osteocytes, or bone marrow cells in the same specimens containing the osteoclast microfilaments. Identical microfilaments have been found in a small percentage of the osteoclasts in giant cell tumors of bone and in the osteoclasts of some patients with osteopetrosis and pyknodysostosis ( 40 ). Figure 12. Electron microscopic examination of an iliac crest biopsy revealing microfilaments within remnants of a degenerating osteoclast nucleus. The arrow indicates microfilaments in adjacent cytoplasm. Magn. x 25,800 In addition to the structural evidence for the presence of viral nucleocapsids in the osteoclasts of Paget's disease, evidence of paramyxoviridae nucleocapsid proteins ( 41 , 42 ), and mRNA ( 43 ) has been reported, although not by all investigators ( 44 ). In one study addressing the identity of the osteoclast microfilaments, the full-length sequence for the measles virus nucleocapsid gene was delineated from the bone marrow of one patient as were more than 700 base pairs of the nucleocapsid gene in three additional patients ( 45 ). BIOCHEMICAL ASSESSMENT The radiologic and histologic evidence of increased bone resorption and formation in patients with Paget's disease is readily assessed by measuring biochemical markers of bone turnover. In general, these tests reflect the extent and activity of the disease. Bone Resorption Since the underlying cellular abnormality in Paget's disease seems to be increased bone resorption, one might expect that serum calcium and/or urinary calcium levels would be increased in some individuals with active Paget's
