Paget’s Disease of Bone
KEYWORDS: disease, paget, bone, paget disease, pubmed, patients, disease bone, treatment, activity, increased, pain, associated, free, pmc free, article


cellular abnormality in Paget's disease seems to be increased bone resorption, one might expect that serum calcium and/or urinary calcium levels would be increased in some individuals with active Paget's disease. In the absence of fractures, immobilization, primary hyperparathyroidism, or bone metastases, this is not the case ( 46 ). Presumably, this is explained by a concomitant increase in bone formation, which has been defined by histopathology and by kinetic analysis of plasma disappearance rates and skeletal uptake of radiocalcium ( 46 ). Evidence of increased bone matrix resorption was first provided by the demonstration of increased urinary hydroxyproline excretion, a component of all types of collagen. Subsequently, more specific indices of bone resorption have been developed including pyridinoline, deoxypyridinoline, type I collagen N-telopeptide, and C-telopeptide. The latter two collagen components are the most specific markers of bone collagen resorption ( 47 ); serum and urine assays of the telopeptides are widely available for clinical use. Bone Formation Measurement of total serum alkaline phosphatase activity has been a means of evaluating Paget's disease for 90 years ( 4 ). The enzyme activity, which is localized in the plasma membrane of osteoblasts before extracellular release, correlates with the extent of the disease on skeletal surveys ( 48 ) and with parameters of bone resorption ( 48 ). The circulating enzyme activity usually increases gradually or does not change during long-term follow up of patients who are untreated ( 49 ). In patients with liver disease or who might be pregnant, it would be preferable to measure bone-specific alkaline phosphatase levels by immunoassay ( 50 ). Several of these assays have been developed which have little cross-reactivity with non-skeletal alkaline phosphatase. Measurement of serum procollagen type1-N-terminal peptide has proven to be valuable in assessing the response to teriparatide in osteoporosis patients. While these assays may have an advantage over the nonspecific total alkaline phosphatase activity with respect to specificity, no study has been done which indicates that they should replace this inexpensive assay for routine clinical use ( 51 ). Other markers of bone formation such as serum osteocalcin or type I procollagen carboxyl-terminal peptide are not as sensitive as total or bone-specific alkaline phosphatase levels in assessing the response to therapy ( 47 ). Sclerostin is an important protein produced by osteocytes which inhibits bone formation. Serum sclerostin has been noted to be elevated in patients with Paget’s disease ( 52
