Paget’s Disease of Bone
KEYWORDS: disease, paget, bone, paget disease, pubmed, patients, disease bone, treatment, activity, increased, pain, associated, free, pmc free, article


( 47 ). Sclerostin is an important protein produced by osteocytes which inhibits bone formation. Serum sclerostin has been noted to be elevated in patients with Paget’s disease ( 52 ) but is not correlated with serum C-telopeptide or serum procollagen type1-N-terminal peptide levels. The relevance of this finding remains to be established. Calciotropic Hormones Serum parathyroid hormone levels are generally normal in patients with Paget's disease ( 23 ). Elevated levels are found in the presence of concomitant primary hyperparathyroidism ( 53 ) and would be expected to also be increased in the presence of renal failure or vitamin D deficiency. Serum calcitonin levels are normal in Paget's disease ( 54 ) although there was prior speculation that low levels might contribute to the pathogenesis of the disease. In the absence of vitamin D deficiency, serum 25-hydroxy-vitamin D and 1, 25 dihydroxyvitamin D levels are normal. Inexplicably, 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D levels have been reported to be low ( 55 ). NEOPLASTIC COMPLICATIONS Sarcoma Sarcomas develop in the lesions of Paget's disease more often than in an age-matched normal population, although the incidence is less than 1% overall ( 56 ). However, in patients with extensive disease, the incidence has been estimated at 10% ( 57 ), although a subsequent study suggests this is not so ( 58 ). Rarely, sarcomas have been known to develop in multiple members of a family. A sarcoma should be suspected when new pain and swelling develop in a bone previously affected by Paget's disease. The most common sites are in the pelvis, femur, humerus, skull, and facial bones. There is a variable histology of the sarcomas of Paget's disease including osteosarcoma, fibrosarcoma, chondrosarcoma, and anaplastic sarcoma ( 57 ). Several types of histology may be present in a single tumor. Multinucleated giant cells (probably osteoclasts) may be scattered throughout a tumor. They may contain the nuclear microfilaments seen in the osteoclasts and are not thought to be neoplastic in nature ( 59 ). Because of the underlying distortion of the pagetic bone, it is difficult to detect an early stage of a sarcoma. Typically, a radiolucent focus with speckled regions of calcification will be observed to disrupt the cortex of the bone ( Figure 13 ). The best means of delineating the extent of the tumor mass is by CT or MRI. Figure 13. Multiple sites of osteogenic sarcoma in a patient with Paget's
