Paget’s Disease of Bone
KEYWORDS: disease, paget, bone, paget disease, pubmed, patients, disease bone, treatment, activity, increased, pain, associated, free, pmc free, article


13 ). The best means of delineating the extent of the tumor mass is by CT or MRI. Figure 13. Multiple sites of osteogenic sarcoma in a patient with Paget's disease of the right hemipelvis. Note the extension of the tumor through the cortex of right ischium. Perhaps because of a failure of early diagnosis in most patients with sarcoma arising in Paget's disease, survival is brief. Only 7.5%-10% of patients survive five years and despite the multiple modalities of therapy presently available, the prognosis remains poor ( 56 , 60 ). Giant Cell Tumor Giant cell tumors of bone may arise in lesions of Paget's disease, often in the skull and facial bones ( 61 ). They are nearly always benign and appear to be less common than sarcoma in Paget's disease. As is the case with sarcoma, they rarely may appear in multiple family members who have Paget's disease ( 62 ). A prominent feature of the tumors is the presence of large numbers of multinucleated giant cells, a small percentage of which contain the nuclear microfilaments typical of the osteoclasts of Paget's disease ( 61 ). The neoplastic component of the giant cell tumor is a spindle-shaped cell with fusiform nuclei and clumped chromatin. These cells rarely have mitoses. There may be some difficulty in distinguishing these tumors from giant cell reparative granulomas, which commonly arise in the jaws ( 63 ). Giant cell tumors in Paget's disease are usually successfully treated with surgery and radiation therapy. In a few patients, high doses of dexamethasone have been shown to shrink the tumors ( 64 ). Denosumab has been effective in treating patients with giant cell tumors ( 65 ) but has not been studied in patients with giant cell tumors arising in the lesions of Paget’s disease. Other Neoplasia Other neoplastic processes such as lymphoma ( 56 ), multiple myeloma ( 57 ), various carcinomas, and parathyroid tumors ( 53 ) have been reported in association with Paget's disease, but are probably chance occurrences. Metastatic cancers have been reported to metastasize to the highly vascular lesions of Paget's disease. SYSTEMIC COMPLICATIONS AND ASSOCIATED DISEASES Hypercalcemia Hypercalcemia may occur as a consequence of immobilization in patients with Paget's disease ( 66 ), although this is an unusual clinical event. This is believed to occur because immobility results in increased bone resorption and decreased bone formation. Hypercalcemia can also
