Paget’s Disease of Bone
KEYWORDS: disease, paget, bone, paget disease, pubmed, patients, disease bone, treatment, activity, increased, pain, associated, free, pmc free, article


disease ( 66 ), although this is an unusual clinical event. This is believed to occur because immobility results in increased bone resorption and decreased bone formation. Hypercalcemia can also occur in association with a malignancy ( 67 ). More commonly hypercalcemia in Paget's disease occurs as a consequence of primary hyperparathyroidism ( 53 ). Correction of the hyperparathyroidism by surgery produced a decrease of 68% in plasma alkaline phosphatase in a series of 18 patients ( 53 ). The clinical features of these patients were quite similar to hyperparathyroid patients without Paget's disease, prompting the investigators to speculate that the two diseases were associated by chance. Hyperuricemia and Gout Hyperuricemia has been observed to be common in males with relatively severe Paget's disease ( 48 ). Clinical episodes of gouty arthritis occurred in almost half of these individuals. In a larger population of Paget's disease patients, hyperuricemia (20%) and gout (4%) were not felt to be increased in incidence ( 68 ). The differences in hyperuricemia and gout might be explained by the severity of the disease in the two study populations. With extensive skeletal involvement, a high turnover of nucleic acids in the lesions of Paget's disease could increase the urate pool enough to produce a clinical disturbance of urate metabolism ( 69 ). Cardiovascular Dysfunction A hallmark of the pathology of Paget's disease is the increased vascularity of affected bones. Further evidence for this has been documented by demonstration of an increase in blood flow to the extremities ( 70 ), although it has been suggested that this is mainly caused by cutaneous vasodilation ( 71 ). An echocardiographic study of cardiac function in Paget's disease found that patients with more severe disease had lower peripheral vascular resistance and higher stroke volume ( 72 ). These observations help account for the finding that patients with 15% or more of their skeleton affected by Paget's disease have increased cardiac output ( 73 ). High output congestive heart failure can occur. It is possible that increased cardiac output in patients with Paget's disease accounts for an increased incidence in calcific aortic stenosis through causing turbulence across the valve. Patients with Paget's disease have a 4-6 times higher incidence of this lesion than control subjects ( 74 , 75 ). Calcification of the interventricular septum has also been reported in patients with Paget's disease and may be associated with complete
