Paget’s Disease of Bone
KEYWORDS: disease, paget, bone, paget disease, pubmed, patients, disease bone, treatment, activity, increased, pain, associated, free, pmc free, article


this lesion than control subjects ( 74 , 75 ). Calcification of the interventricular septum has also been reported in patients with Paget's disease and may be associated with complete heart block ( 75 , 76 ). It also has been reported that arterial calcification is more common in Paget’s disease than in control subjects in the aorta as well as in iliac, femoral, gluteal and pelvic arteries ( 77 ). The explanation for this is unknown. A less certain consequence of an increase in vascularity of bone and surrounding soft tissues is a variety of vascular steal syndromes. Patients with marked enlargement of the skull have been noted to be withdrawn, somnolent, and weak. These findings might be explained by shunting of blood from brain vessels to the external carotid artery system ( 78 ). It has also been proposed that spinal cord dysfunction might be a consequence of shunting of blood flow from the spinal arteries to the bone ( 79 ). TREATMENT Prior to 1975, a number of nonspecific treatments were used to attempt to alleviate some of the manifestations of Paget's disease. With the exception of pain medications none were of value. With the development of salmon calcitonin, a new era of effective treatment began. Presently, there are a number of highly effective agents which make possible excellent control of the disease. Pretreatment Evaluation The initial goal of patient evaluation is to establish which bones are affected by Paget's disease and what symptoms the lesions produce. A search for skeletal deformity may indicate one or more bones are involved, but this should be confirmed by X-rays. The full extent of the disease would best be ascertained by full body bone scan followed by radiologic confirmation of the disease in areas of increased tracer uptake. The decision as to which patient requires a bone scan is an individual one. For example, a 90-year old asymptomatic patient who is found to have Paget's disease in the pelvis during an intravenous pyelogram probably does not need a scan. There is now a considerable choice of bone resorption and bone formation parameters which could be used to determine the overall metabolic activity of the disease. For routine clinical purposes, in most patients, measurement of total serum alkaline phosphatase activity is an effective and inexpensive test. Drug Therapy Calcitonin Calcitonin is a peptide hormone whose main pharmacologic effect is rapid inhibition
