Paget’s Disease of Bone
KEYWORDS: disease, paget, bone, paget disease, pubmed, patients, disease bone, treatment, activity, increased, pain, associated, free, pmc free, article


most patients, measurement of total serum alkaline phosphatase activity is an effective and inexpensive test. Drug Therapy Calcitonin Calcitonin is a peptide hormone whose main pharmacologic effect is rapid inhibition of bone resorption. This is mediated by binding of the hormone to its receptor on the surface of osteoclasts. Salmon calcitonin was the first calcitonin species approved by regulatory agencies for treatment of Paget's disease. A dose of 50 to 100 U given daily or three times a week produces relief of bone pain in most patients within 2-6 weeks. Following suppression of the metabolic activity of the disease cardiac output is reduced ( 80 ) as is the skin temperature over affected tibiae. In addition, some patients have had dramatic improvement of neurologic deficits ( 81 ). Stabilization of hearing loss has also been noted ( 82 ). Because the drug has been shown to reduce the vascularity of bone affected by Paget's disease, it has been given preoperatively to reduce the degree of hemorrhage in patients scheduled for orthopedic procedures ( 83 ). A single injection results in an immediate decrease in urinary hydroxyproline reflecting an acute inhibition of bone resorption. A maximal effect occurs in several months. Serum alkaline phosphatase activity falls more slowly; a significant decrease is generally not seen for one month. Within 3-6 months, both hydroxyproline excretion and alkaline phosphatase activity decrease on average by 50%. If treatment is stopped, urinary hydroxyproline gradually increases over several months followed by an increase in alkaline phosphatase activity back to pretreatment levels. With chronic treatment osteolytic lesions generally are reversed ( 84 ). However, if treatment is not continuous, the osteolytic lesion will recur. Reduced uptake of radiolabeled bisphosphonate ( 85 ) and gallium ( 33 ) occurs during long term treatment. Bone biopsies exhibit a reduced number of bone cells, a decrease in marrow fibrosis, and a reduction of woven bone volume ( 86 ). Since salmon calcitonin is a foreign protein, it is not surprising that more than half of patients on long-term treatment develop specific antibodies against the hormone in the circulation ( 87 ). High titers of these antibodies almost always impair the response to continuing treatment so that up to 26% of patients have become resistant to the drug. Although no longer available for clinical use, human calcitonin was effective in inducing remissions in salmon calcitonin-resistant patients. Presently, any of the bisphosphonates
