Paget’s Disease of Bone
KEYWORDS: disease, paget, bone, paget disease, pubmed, patients, disease bone, treatment, activity, increased, pain, associated, free, pmc free, article


patients have become resistant to the drug. Although no longer available for clinical use, human calcitonin was effective in inducing remissions in salmon calcitonin-resistant patients. Presently, any of the bisphosphonates can be used to treat these patients. Salmon calcitonin injections may cause nausea and facial flushing in 10-20% of patients. Vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhea, and polyuria are much less common side effects. Rarely tetany and allergic reactions have been reported. Nasal spray salmon calcitonin is much less likely to cause side effects but has lower potency ( 88 ). At this time, salmon calcitonin is used much less frequently than in the past because of the development of potent bisphosphonates. Bisphosphonates The development of the bisphosphonates for the treatment of skeletal disorders associated with increased bone resorption has been a major advance in the management of Paget's disease ( 89 ). These drugs, initially known as diphosphonates, are analogues of inorganic pyrophosphonate, a factor believed to be a necessary component for the mineralization of bone. All bisphosphonates have a central P-C-P core, which was substituted for the naturally occurring P-O-P core of pyrophosphate, because unlike P-O-P, the P-C-P structure is impervious to metabolic degradation. The bisphosphonates have a profound influence on bone metabolism, in part, because they bind to hydroxyapatite. The primary effect of bisphosphonates is to inhibit osteoclastic bone resorption, which in vivo is followed by a secondary decrease in bone formation. The earliest bisphosphonates which were developed, etidronate and clodronate, appear to achieve their effects by generating nonhydrolyzable analogues of adenosine triphosphate, while the later generation of more potent aminobisphosphonates, such as pamidronate and risedronate, inhibit protein prenylation through inhibition of farnesyl pyrophosphate synthase, a key enzyme in the mevalonate pathway. Although it is generally believed that bisphosphonates act directly on the differentiation and function of osteoclasts, evidence has accumulated which indicates that some bisphosphonates regulate cell proliferation, differentiation, and gene expression in human osteoblasts in vitro ( 90 ). How such observations translate into in vivo actions of bisphosphonates is unclear. In table I, the bisphosphonates presently approved for treatment of Paget's disease in the United States are listed with their recommended regimes. There are four oral bisphosphonates available whose recommended daily treatment courses range from two months to six months and two intravenous bisphosphonates. Table 1. Bisphosphonates Approved for Treatment of Paget's Disease View in own window Bisphosphonates available in U.S.A. Administration and Dosage Etidronate Trade
