Paget’s Disease of Bone
KEYWORDS: disease, paget, bone, paget disease, pubmed, patients, disease bone, treatment, activity, increased, pain, associated, free, pmc free, article


Actonel® before eating any food, drinking anything other than tap water, or taking any medication. 5. Do not lie down for at least 30 minutes after taking Actonel®. (Patient may sit.) Zoledronic Acid Trade Name: Reclast® FDA approval: 2007 1. Intravenous 2. A 15 minute infusion of 5mg 3. Creatinine clearance must be >35 ml/min 4. Correct vitamin D deficiency and/or hypocalcemia before infusion 5. To reduce the risk of hypocalcemia after infusion, patients should receive 1500mg calcium and 1000 units vitamin D3 daily for two weeks * Adapted from Information for Patients about Bisphosphonates, A Publication of the Paget Foundation for Paget's Disease of Bone and Related Disorders (2007). The least potent bisphosphonate, etidronate, is similar to salmon calcitonin with respect to suppression of the metabolic activity of Paget's disease. The more potent aminobisphosphonates, pamidronate, alendronate, risedronate, and zoledronic acid can induce biochemical remissions in the majority of patients. In the past patients with extensive disease and markedly elevated biochemical parameters may have impressive reductions in serum alkaline phosphatase activity yet not reach normal levels ( 91 ). However, patients treated with zoledronic acid, no matter how high the baseline serum alkaline phosphatase activity, nearly always reach the normal range of enzyme activity ( 92 ). Most of the clinical benefits attributed to salmon calcitonin are produced by the aminobisphosphonates, yet it remains to be demonstrated whether long term biochemical remissions with any agent can reduce the incidence of future complications such as hearing loss and deformity. The oral bisphosphonates are poorly absorbed and must be taken with water only. In clinical trials, side effects involving the gastrointestinal tract were not greater in patients receiving the drug than in the placebo group. However, some individuals experience abdominal distress or diarrhea. Patients receiving an oral aminobisphosphonate are advised to remain upright for at least 30 minutes after taking the drug to reduce the chance of esophageal irritation. A small percentage of patients may experience a transient increase in bone pain. The first infusion of pamidronate ( 93 ) or zoledronic acid ( 92 ) may produce an acute phase reaction in 30-50% of patients manifested by fever, myalgia, and elevation of circulating interleukin 6 levels ( 93 ). Subsequent infusions produce little or no side effects. The mechanism responsible for the acute phase reaction appears to be release of cytokines from gamma delta T cells ( 94 ), which is
