Paget’s Disease of Bone
KEYWORDS: disease, paget, bone, paget disease, pubmed, patients, disease bone, treatment, activity, increased, pain, associated, free, pmc free, article


produce little or no side effects. The mechanism responsible for the acute phase reaction appears to be release of cytokines from gamma delta T cells ( 94 ), which is worsened by vitamin D deficiency ( 95 ). Vitamin D supplementation in patients with low levels is very effective in preventing acute phase reactions and all patients who will be receiving pamidronate or zoledronic acid should have normal levels of serum 25OHD prior to the infusion ( 96 ). Allergic reactions to bisphosphonates are rare and most commonly manifest as inflammatory eye reactions due to pamidronate ( 97 ). If etidronate is used at a dose greater than 5 mg/kg body weight, osteomalacia may be a consequence ( 98 ). Another disadvantage of etidronate use is that osteolytic lesions may progress despite evidence of biochemical improvement ( 99 ). Treatment with a potent bisphosphonate may produce long remissions. This is the most likely to be seen after treatment with zoledronic acid. A single infusion restores biochemical markers of bone turnover into the normal range and this is maintained for up to six and a half years in most patients ( 100 ). This response is largely independent of pretreatment disease activity. However, with the older bisphosphonates induction of a remission correlates well with the extent and activity (alkaline phosphatase) of the disease ( 101 ). Patients with less extensive disease and lower alkaline phosphatase activity are more likely to achieve remission. With respect to the duration of a remission, this appears to be dose-dependent as well as correlated with the nadir value of serum alkaline phosphatase activity, the number of affected bones, and the number of previous therapies ( 101 ). Intravenous ibandronate may produce a prolonged response but is not an FDA-approved therapy for Paget’s disease ( 102 ). Resistance to etidronate therapy is commonly seen after two six-month courses of the drug ( 103 ). There is also evidence that resistance to intravenous pamidronate ( 101 ) or clodronate ( 104 ) can occur. In pamidronate-resistant patients, treatment with alendronate was effective ( 104 ). In the clodronate-resistant patients, either risedronate or pamidronate was effective ( 105 ). There is no information which explains the mechanism responsible for apparent decreased efficacy of these agents with time. It is possible that an increase in the disease activity is responsible for these observations rather than a change in efficacy of
