Paget’s Disease of Bone
KEYWORDS: disease, paget, bone, paget disease, pubmed, patients, disease bone, treatment, activity, increased, pain, associated, free, pmc free, article


apparent decreased efficacy of these agents with time. It is possible that an increase in the disease activity is responsible for these observations rather than a change in efficacy of the drugs. Considerable publicity has been given to the development of osteonecrosis of the jaw in patients treated with bisphosphonates ( 106 ). This mainly is seen in cancer patients given monthly infusions and is rare in patients with Paget’s disease. Miscellaneous Agents Other inhibitors of bone resorption such as plicamycin and gallium nitrate, approved for treatment of hypercalcemia of malignancy, are effective in treating Paget's disease ( 107 , 108 ). In view of the safety and efficacy of the aminobisphosphonates, there is very little present use of these agents. The most potent antiresorptive agent, denosumab, has been reported to decrease disease activity in two patients with Paget’s disease ( 109 , 110 ). In 1971 glucagon infusions were reported to markedly reduce of bone turnover parameters in four patients with Paget’s disease ( 111 ) but large trials have not been reported. Treatment and Posttreatment Evaluation Assessment of total serum alkaline phosphatase activity is generally sufficient to determine the success of treatment. The frequency of evaluation does not need to be more frequently than every 3 months after the onset of the treatment and can be extended to every 6-12 months after a nadir has been reached. Serial nuclear scans of the skeleton are more sensitive in defining no residual disease activity than biochemical results as reported in one study ( 112 ). Minimal to significant disease activity was found in two-thirds of patients who had normal biochemical parameters after zoledronic acid infusions. A second infusion produced complete remission. It is uncertain how clinically important it is to produce complete suppression of radioisotope uptake in patients with normal biochemistry after treatment. If a patient has a well- defined osteolytic lesion on X-ray, it can be assessed annually to assure the disease is well-controlled. Indications for Treatment Effective drug treatment for Paget's disease has evolved over 45 years, but there have been no large, randomized, long-term clinical trials, which can provide definitive guidelines for treatment. Nevertheless, in table 2 , indications for drug treatment of Paget's disease are listed. These are based on a review of the literature and a large personal experience. Table 2. Indications for Drug Treatment of Paget's Disease View in own window 1. Bone pain
