Paget’s Disease of Bone
KEYWORDS: disease, paget, bone, paget disease, pubmed, patients, disease bone, treatment, activity, increased, pain, associated, free, pmc free, article


These are based on a review of the literature and a large personal experience. Table 2. Indications for Drug Treatment of Paget's Disease View in own window 1. Bone pain 2. Hypercalcemia due to immobilization 3. Neurologic deficit associated with vertebral disease 4. High-output congestive heart failure 5. Preparation for orthopedic surgery 6. Prevention of complications including hearing loss, deformity Although bone pain is not a problem in the majority of patients, it is a clear indication for treatment. In patients in whom bone pain is difficult to distinguish from joint pain treatment of the Paget's disease will usually clarify the source of pain. Treatment should also correct hypercalcemia in an immobilized patient, a rare situation. Neurologic deficits may improve with treatment, also a very unusual complication. High output heart failure should respond favorably to a treatment which lowers the cardiac workload. Reducing the vascularity of the bone and surrounding soft tissue before elective orthopedic surgery should reduce perioperative bleeding. A major indication for treatment could be the prevention of future complications. There is some evidence that progression of hearing loss is reduced by treating patients with cranial disease. Prevention of deformity of lower extremity long bones and secondary osteoarthritis is a reasonable possibility. Presumably, early treatment would reduce the incidence of future fractures. It would be more speculative as to whether the incidence of sarcoma or giant cell tumor formation would be influenced. To achieve the long-term goals of therapy such as prevention of future complications, it may be necessary to maintain the serum alkaline phosphatase activity within the normal range. Future very long-term studies would be needed to determine if complications can be abolished. Surgery In table 3 , the various surgical procedures which have been utilized in the management of Paget's disease are listed. Table 3. Surgical Procedures for Management of Paget's Disease View in own window 1. Total hip replacement 2. Total knee replacement 3. Femoral osteotomy 4. Tibial osteotomy 5. Suboccipital craniectomy and upper cervical vertebral laminectomy for basilar impression 6. Ventricular shunting for hydrocephalus 7. Stapes mobilization or stapedectomy 8. Surgery for correction of spinal stenosis or nerve root compression Total hip replacement is probably the most common elective orthopedic procedure in patients with Paget's disease ( 113 , 114 ). Pain relief and improved mobility occur in a high percentage of patients. Postoperatively, heterotopic ossification may be somewhat more common, but is seldom
