Paget’s Disease of Bone
KEYWORDS: disease, paget, bone, paget disease, pubmed, patients, disease bone, treatment, activity, increased, pain, associated, free, pmc free, article


Paget's disease ( 113 , 114 ). Pain relief and improved mobility occur in a high percentage of patients. Postoperatively, heterotopic ossification may be somewhat more common, but is seldom a significant problem. For patients with severe osteoarthritis of the knees, total knee replacement is an effective treatment ( 115 ). Knee pain and joint effusions associated with osteoarthritis and tibial bowing may be effectively treated by tibular and fibular osteotomy ( 83 ). There is much less experience with neurosurgical procedures in treating Paget's disease. However, successful relief of symptoms is expected after surgery for spinal stenosis or nerve root compression ( 116 ). Percutaneous vertebroplasty might be considered in patients thought to have vertebral bone pain who do not respond to conservative therapy ( 117 ). Stapes mobilization or stapedectomy has not proven to be effective in improving hearing loss. One patient treated with cochlear implantation was reported to have improved speech perception ( 118 ). ETIOLOGY Slow Virus Infection The possibility that Paget's disease fell into the category of a slow virus infection was suggested by the observation that the osteoclasts in this disorder harbored nuclear and cytoplasmic microfilaments which were essentially identical in structure to nucleocapsids of the Paramyxoviridae virus family ( 38 , 39 ). Immunochemical studies ( 40 - 42 ), and sequence analysis of nucleocapsid transcripts ( 43 ) have supported the initial hypothesis although not all studies have been positive with respect to a viral presence in the osteoclasts ( 44 ). Indirect support for the role of measles virus comes from a consideration of the availability of measles vaccine throughout the world ( 119 ). The vaccine was introduced in the United States in 1963, in Australia in 1967, in the United Kingdom and France in 1968, in New Zealand in 1969, in the Netherlands and Italy in 1976 and in Spain in 1978. Availability of the vaccine for more than 50 years in several countries might explain a decrease in prevalence whereas delayed availability might explain why other regions may not have had a decrease as yet. Non-Viral Environmental Influences A number of reports have suggested that toxins such as arsenic and lead and animal exposure to dogs and cattle may be factors in the pathogenesis of Paget’s disease ( 119 ). The most recent study indicates that exposure to woodburning during childhood, living near a mine, and hunting may
