Paget’s Disease of Bone
KEYWORDS: disease, paget, bone, paget disease, pubmed, patients, disease bone, treatment, activity, increased, pain, associated, free, pmc free, article


may be factors in the pathogenesis of Paget’s disease ( 119 ). The most recent study indicates that exposure to woodburning during childhood, living near a mine, and hunting may be related to developing the disorder ( 120 ). Exactly how these factors might produce pagetic lesions is unknown. Genetics Since there is clearly a familial aggregation of Paget's disease in up to 40% of patients with Paget's disease ( 17 , 19 ), a search for a predisposition gene or genes has been undertaken by a number of investigators. The initial attempts to define genetic susceptibility in Paget's disease centered on chromosome 6 because of known associations between disease susceptibility and histocompatibility loci on this chromosome ( 121 ). Although there is some evidence for human leucocyte antigen linkage in families with Paget's disease no gene locus has yet been defined on chromosome 6. The initial localization of a predisposition gene for Paget's disease came from linkage studies with chromosome 18 markers ( 122 , 123 ). Attention was given to chromosome 18 because of the discovery that mutations of receptor activator of nuclear factor kB (RANK), a critical osteoclastogenic factor, were responsible for the skeletal disorder, familial expansile osteolysis ( 124 ), a condition which bears some resemblance to Paget's disease ( 125 ). Although chromosome markers have indicated linkage to Paget's disease in the region of the RANK gene on chromosome 18, no RANK mutations have been found in families of typical Paget's disease. A second susceptibility locus, not associated with RANK, has been identified on chromosome 18 in a large Australian kindred ( 126 ). A further finding of interest on chromosome 18 is that sarcomas arising in Paget's disease may harbor a tumor suppressor gene in the same region as the first locus to be described ( 127 ). In 2002 Laurin and colleagues ( 128 ) reported that mutations in the sequestosome 1 gene on chromosome 5 were associated with Paget’s disease in 11/24 French Canadian families and in 18/112 apparently sporadic patients. Mutations of this gene were subsequently found in families in the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, the United States, and The Netherlands. Mutations have also been found in a smaller percentage of patients with sporadic disease. More than 20 different mutations have been described, nearly all of which are clustered around the ubiquitin binding domain of the sequestosome 1 protein (
