Paget’s Disease of Bone
KEYWORDS: disease, paget, bone, paget disease, pubmed, patients, disease bone, treatment, activity, increased, pain, associated, free, pmc free, article


and thereby magnify the severity of Paget’s disease ( 159 ). In giant cell tumors arising in pagetic lesions H3F3A mutations have been detected and are associated with a higher number of osteoclast-like giant cells and an increased number of nuclei per cell ( 154 ) as compared with giant cell tumors occurring without Paget’s disease. Clearly great progress has been made in studies of the genetics of Paget’s disease but the data suggest that an individual with a mutation has an increased susceptibility to develop particularly severe Paget’s disease but may not ever manifest evidence of the disorder. In a study of 84 offspring from 10 families whose Paget’s disease was associated with sequestosome 1 mutations, only 17% of the 23 offspring (mean age 45 years) who had mutations had evidence of the disease as indicated by bone scans ( 160 ). The offspring with normal scans had a mean age of 44 years and the mean age of the parents at the time of diagnosis was 48 years. There is incomplete penetrance of the Paget’s disease trait in these families although it is possible more offspring with aging will develop Paget’s disease in the future. In another study only 52% of patients with a VCP/p97 gene mutation were noted to have a lesion of Paget’s disease after extensive radiologic surveys ( 134 ). No assessment of viruses in the bone of these patients has been reported. In the most recent report from The Netherlands after 15.9 years of follow-up of sequestosome 1 mutation family members of pagetic patients only one individual (7.1%) was found to develop Paget’s disease ( 161 ). Fourteen individuals were followed and their ages ranged from 52 to 74 years. Animal Models and In Vitro Models of Paget’s Disease Transgenic mice have been utilized to investigate the potential roles of the measles virus nucleocapsid gene and the sequestosome1/p62 and VCP/p97 gene mutations in the pathogenesis of Paget’s disease. Targeting of the measles virus nucleocapsid gene into osteoclasts of transgenic mice produced lesions in some vertebrae which strongly resembled the lesions of Paget’s disease, increased osteoclastic activity with exuberant new bone formation often of woven character was observed ( 162 ). The same investigators targeted the most common sequestosome1/p62 mutation in familial Paget’s disease, P392L, into the osteoclasts of transgenic mice ( 163 ). They observed increased numbers of osteoclasts associated with bone loss but
