Paget’s Disease of Bone
KEYWORDS: disease, paget, bone, paget disease, pubmed, patients, disease bone, treatment, activity, increased, pain, associated, free, pmc free, article


the most common sequestosome1/p62 mutation in familial Paget’s disease, P392L, into the osteoclasts of transgenic mice ( 163 ). They observed increased numbers of osteoclasts associated with bone loss but no increase in osteoblastic activity characteristic of Paget’s disease. Transduced osteoclast precursors isolated from the mice were hyperresponsive to receptor activator of NF-kappa B ligand (RANKL) and TNF-alpha but did not exhibit increased 1,25 (OH)2D3 responsivity, TAF( 11 )-17 expression, or increased number of nuclei per osteoclast, features found in osteoclast precursors isolated from individuals with Paget’s disease. In contrast to this study, Daroszewska and colleagues did find that targeting the P392L mutation into transgenic mice produced a Paget-like bone pathology predominantly in the lower limbs ( 164 ). They also found that osteoclast precursors had increased sensitivity to RANKL in vitro but did not examine 1,25(OH)2D3 sensitivity or TAF( 11 )-17 expression. They found nuclear inclusions also but it was not certain that they were identical to those found in patients. The explanation for the different results in these two studies is not apparent. To examine the potential interaction of the measles virus nucleocapsid gene and the P392L mutation Kurihara and colleagues undertook studies of bone marrow specimens from patients with familial Paget’s disease who had the P392L mutation, utilizing specimens from pagetic and normal bone as well as from normal volunteers ( 165 ). The effects of antisense-measles virus nucleocapsid protein (MVNP) on osteoclast characteristics were different in marrow specimens from pagetic bone versus nonpagetic bone. The patient specimens which had MVNP expression responded to the antisense –MVNP with a reduction in osteoclast number, TATA box-binding protein associated factor 12 expression, 1,25 (OH)2D3 –stimulated IL-6 production and bone resorption, observations indicating a reversal of the usual features of osteoclasts generated from the marrow of sporadic or familial Paget’s disease patients. The results indicate an important role of measles virus in pagetic lesions. A contribution of the P392L mutation to the pathologic process was suggested by the fact that there was hyperresponsiveness to RANKL in both the pagetic and nonpagetic bone marrows obtained from the familial patients. These investigators then went on to carry out experiments in transgenic mice by cross breeding mice with MVNP and P392L mutations ( 165 ). The mice who harbored both MVNP and P392L had more severe Paget-like lesions than mice with MVNP alone. As expected zoledronic acid treatment of p62 P394L mice with
