Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia: Diagnosis and Emergency Treatment
KEYWORDS: cah, adrenal, deficiency, congenital, males, patients, elevated, females, hydroxylase, hyperplasia, diagnosis, age, salt, ohd, salt wasting


and P450aro Wide range of phenotypes: normal to genital ambiguity +/- skeletal abnormalities (Antley Bixler type) Classical CAH occurs in 1:13,000 to 1:15,000 live births. It is estimated that 75% of patients have the salt-wasting (SW) phenotype and the rest have simple-virilizing (SV) phenotype. Non-classical 21-OHD CAH (NC-CAH) is more common, and is one of the most common disorders in the Ashkenazi Jewish population with 1 in 27 Jews affected. CAH owing to 11β-hydroxylase deficiency (11β-OHD) is the second most common cause of CAH, accounting for 5-8% of all cases. The other forms of CAH are considered rare diseases and the incidence is unknown in the general population. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Adrenal steroidogenesis occurs in three major pathways: glucocorticoids, mineralocorticoids, and sex steroids as shown in Figure 1 . Glucocorticoids (particularly cortisol), androgens, and estrogens are synthesized in the zona fasciculata and reticularis; and aldosterone in the zona glomerulosa. The HPA feedback system is mediated through the circulating level of plasma cortisol by negative feedback of cortisol on CRF and ACTH secretion. Therefore, a decrease in cortisol secretion leads to increased ACTH production, which in turn stimulates (1) excessive synthesis of adrenal products in those pathways unimpaired by the enzyme deficiency and (2) an increase of precursor molecules in pathways blocked by the enzyme deficiency. Figure 1. Pathways of Adrenal Steroidogenesis: Five enzymatic steps necessary for cortisol production are shown in numbers. 1= 20, 22 desmolase, 2= 17 hydroxylase (17-OH), 3=3ß-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3ß HSD), 4=21 hydroxylase (21-OHD), 5=11ß hydroxylase (11-OH) In the first step of adrenal steroidogenesis, cholesterol enters mitochondria via a carrier protein called StAR. ACTH stimulates cholesterol cleavage, the rate limiting step of adrenal steroidogenesis. The clinical symptoms of the five different forms of CAH result from the particular hormones that are deficient and those that are produced in excess as outlined in Table 1 . In 21 OHD-CAH, there is an accumulation of 17-hydroxyprogesterone (17-OHP), a precursor to the 21-hydroxylation step, which is then shunted into the intact androgen pathway, where the 17,20-lyase enzyme converts the 17-OHP to D4-androstenedione, which is converted into androgens. Mineralocorticoid deficiency is a feature of SW-CAH, the most severe form of CAH. The enzyme defect in NC-CAH is only partial and salt wasting in this mild form of the disease does not occur. The analogy of all other enzyme deficiencies in terms of precursor retention and product deficiencies are shown in Table 1 .
