Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia: Diagnosis and Emergency Treatment
KEYWORDS: cah, adrenal, deficiency, congenital, males, patients, elevated, females, hydroxylase, hyperplasia, diagnosis, age, salt, ohd, salt wasting


this mild form of the disease does not occur. The analogy of all other enzyme deficiencies in terms of precursor retention and product deficiencies are shown in Table 1 . CLINICAL FEATURES Genitalia Females with Classical 21-OHD and 11β-hydroxylase deficiency CAH present at birth with virilization of their genitalia. Adrenocortical function begins around the 7 th week of gestation; thus, a female fetus with classical CAH is exposed to adrenal androgens at the critical time of sexual differentiation (approximately 9 to 15 weeks gestational age). This leads to clitoral enlargement, fusion and scrotalization of the labial folds, and rostral migration of the urethral/vaginal perineal orifice, placing the phallus in the male position. Degrees of genital virilization are classified into five Prader stages (see Figure 2 ). Figure 2. Different degrees of virilization according to the scale developed by Prader Stage I: clitoromegaly without labial fusion Stage II: clitoromegaly and posterior labial fusion Stage III: greater degree of clitoromegaly, single perineal urogenital orifice, and almost complete labial fusion Stage IV: increasingly phallic clitoris, urethra-like urogenital sinus at base of clitoris, and complete labial fusion Stage V: penile clitoris, urethral meatus at tip of phallus, and scrotum-like labia (appear like males without palpable gonads) Prader, A. Helv Paediatr Acta, 1954. 9:230-248. Internal female genitalia, such as the uterus, fallopian tubes and ovaries, develop normally. Females with classical CAH maintain the internal genitalia potential for fertility. Postnatal Effects, Growth and Puberty Lack of appropriate postnatal treatment in boys and girls results in continued exposure to excessive androgens, causing progressive penile or clitoral enlargement, the development of premature pubic hair, axillary hair and acne. Advanced somatic and epiphyseal development occurs with exaggerated growth and is usually accompanied by premature epiphyseal maturation and closure, resulting in a final adult height that is typically significantly below that expected from parental heights. Excess glucocorticoid treatment can also lead to poor growth. The mean age at onset of puberty in both males and females is slightly younger than the general population. In those who are inadequately treated, central precocious puberty can occur. Following the onset of puberty, in a majority of successfully treated patients, the milestones of further development of secondary sex characteristics in general appear to be normal. In female adolescents and adults, signs of hyperandrogenism may include male-pattern alopecia (temporal balding), acne, hirsutism, menstrual irregularities, secondary PCOS and impaired fertility. Although the expected age of menarche
