Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia: Diagnosis and Emergency Treatment
KEYWORDS: cah, adrenal, deficiency, congenital, males, patients, elevated, females, hydroxylase, hyperplasia, diagnosis, age, salt, ohd, salt wasting


normal. In female adolescents and adults, signs of hyperandrogenism may include male-pattern alopecia (temporal balding), acne, hirsutism, menstrual irregularities, secondary PCOS and impaired fertility. Although the expected age of menarche may be delayed in females with classical CAH, when adequately treated many have regular menses after menarche. In males, short stature and impaired fertility are observed. Gender Role Behavior and Cognition Prenatal androgen exposure in females affected with classical forms of CAH not only has a masculinizing effect on the development of the external genitalia, but also on childhood behavior. Both physical and behavioral masculinization are related to each other and to genotype, indicating that behavioral masculinization in childhood is a consequence of prenatal androgen exposure. The majority of genetic females with CAH retain the female gender identity even in the setting of prenatal androgen exposure and postnatal hyperandrogenism. Fertility Difficulty with fertility in females with CAH may be due to anovulation, secondary polycystic ovarian syndrome, irregular menses, non-suppressible serum progesterone levels, or an inadequate introitus. Fertility is reduced in SW-CAH with rare reports of pregnancy. Non-classical CAH is an important and frequently unrecognized form of infertility. Males with CAH, particularly if poorly treated, may have reduced sperm counts and low testosterone as a result of high androstenedione concentrations which suppress gonadotropins and testicular adrenal rest tumors. Testicular adrenal rest tumors (TART) are thought to arise from aberrant adrenal cells in the testes; TARTs are always benign and mostly bilateral. Microscopic examination shows that adrenal rest cells are present in the testicles of all male patients with CAH and often detected radiographically in those with longstanding poorly controlled disease. Regular testicular examination and periodic testicular ultrasonography are recommended for early detection of adrenal rest tumors of the testes. However, MRI studies have been increasingly used to diagnose TARTs. Salt-Wasting 21-Hydroxylase Deficiency When the loss of 21-hydroxylase function is severe, adrenal aldosterone secretion is not sufficient for sodium reabsorption by the distal renal tubules, and individuals suffer from salt wasting as well as cortisol deficiency and androgen excess. Infants with renal salt wasting have poor feeding, weight loss, failure to thrive, vomiting, dehydration, hypotension, hyponatremia, and hyperkalemic metabolic acidosis progressing to adrenal crisis (azotemia, vascular collapse, shock, and death). Adrenal crisis can occur as early as age one to four weeks. Affected males who are not detected in a newborn screening program are at high risk for a salt-wasting adrenal crisis
