Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia: Diagnosis and Emergency Treatment
KEYWORDS: cah, adrenal, deficiency, congenital, males, patients, elevated, females, hydroxylase, hyperplasia, diagnosis, age, salt, ohd, salt wasting


can occur as early as age one to four weeks. Affected males who are not detected in a newborn screening program are at high risk for a salt-wasting adrenal crisis because their normal male genitalia do not alert medical professionals to their condition. It is important to recognize that the extent of genital virilization may not differ among SV-CAH and SW-CAH. Simple-Virilizing 21-Hydroxylase Deficiency The salient features of classical SV-CAH are prenatal virilization and progressive postnatal masculinization with rapid somatic growth and advanced epiphyseal maturation leading to early epiphyseal closure and likely short stature. There is no evidence of mineralocorticoid deficiency in this disorder and serum electrolyte concentrations are normal. Diagnosis at birth of a female with SV-CAH is usually made immediately because of the apparent genital ambiguity. Since the external genitalia are not affected in newborn males, hyperpigmentation may be the only clue suggesting increased ACTH secretion and cortisol deficiency. Diagnosis at birth in males thus rests on prenatal or newborn screening. Non-Classical 21-Hydroxylase Deficiency Individuals with the non-classical (NC) form of 21-OHD have only mild to moderate enzyme deficiency and present postnatally, eventually developing signs of hyperandrogenism. Females with NC-CAH do not have virilized genitalia at birth. NC-CAH may present at any age after birth with a variety of hyperandrogenic symptoms. While serum cortisol concentration is typically low in patients with the classic form of the disease, it is usually normal in patients with NC 21-OHD. Similar to classical CAH, NC-CAH may cause premature development of pubic hair, acne, secondary PCOS, advanced bone age with accelerated linear growth velocity, and short stature. In adult males, early balding, acne, infertility or short stature may prompt the diagnosis of NC-CAH. DIAGNOSIS Diagnosis of CAH must be suspected in infants born with ambiguous genitalia. The physician is obliged to make the diagnosis as quickly as possible to initiate therapy. The diagnosis and rational decision of sex assignment must rely on the determination of genetic sex, the hormonal determination of the specific deficient enzyme, genotype, and an assessment of the patient's potential for future sexual activity and fertility. As indicated in Table 1 , each form of CAH has its own unique hormonal profile, consisting of elevated levels of precursors and elevated or diminished levels of adrenal steroid products. Diagnosis of the 21-OHD CAH can also be confirmed biochemically by a hormonal evaluation. In a randomly timed blood sample, a very high
