Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia: Diagnosis and Emergency Treatment
KEYWORDS: cah, adrenal, deficiency, congenital, males, patients, elevated, females, hydroxylase, hyperplasia, diagnosis, age, salt, ohd, salt wasting


or diminished levels of adrenal steroid products. Diagnosis of the 21-OHD CAH can also be confirmed biochemically by a hormonal evaluation. In a randomly timed blood sample, a very high concentration of 17-hydroxyprogesterone (17-OHP), the precursor of the defective enzyme, is diagnostic of classical 21-OHD. Such testing is the basis of the newborn-screening program developed to identify classically affected patients who are at risk for salt wasting crisis. False-positive results are, however, common with premature infants. Appropriate references based on weight and gestational age are therefore in place in many screening programs. False negative results may occur if samples are drawn late in the afternoon as adrenal hormones exhibit diurnal variation. The gold standard for hormonal diagnosis is the corticotropin stimulation test (250 μg cosyntropin intravenously), measuring levels of 17-OHP and Δ4 androstenedione at baseline and 60 min. These values can then be plotted in the published nomogram to ascertain disease severity. The corticotropin stimulation test should not be performed during the initial 24 hours of life as samples from this period are typically elevated in all infants and may yield false-positive results. Establishing a genetic diagnosis is not only important for the genotype-phenotype correlation, but also for genetic counseling for future pregnancies and for genetic counseling for the patient and his/her reproductive future. For 21-OHD CAH, genetic analysis of the CYP21A2 gene may provide more clues to predict phenotypic severity. In about 50% of the causative genotypes, genotype-phenotype correlation can be found, although certain mutations can lead to variable phenotypes in different population groups especially in the simple virilizer group. Sequencing of the entire gene should be performed to detect rare mutations when genotype–phenotype non-concordance is observed in patients with CAH. Newborn screening for CAH, which utilizes 17 hydroxyprogesterone levels, is a useful tool for early detection of CAH prior to the development of adrenal crisis in the affected neonate. However, screening is associated with a high rate of false positive results as levels are affected by prematurity and birth weight. Molecular genetics, especially genotyping of the CYP21A2 gene should be considered as a second-tier screening test in the new born screening program. Prenatal testing for CAH in utero has historically utilized invasive techniques like amniocentesis and chorionic villus sampling which cannot be done prior to 14 weeks of gestation. Prenatal dexamethasone treatment must begin prior to genital formation occurring at approximately 9 weeks, in order to avoid genital
