Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia: Diagnosis and Emergency Treatment
KEYWORDS: cah, adrenal, deficiency, congenital, males, patients, elevated, females, hydroxylase, hyperplasia, diagnosis, age, salt, ohd, salt wasting


sampling which cannot be done prior to 14 weeks of gestation. Prenatal dexamethasone treatment must begin prior to genital formation occurring at approximately 9 weeks, in order to avoid genital ambiguity in the affected female fetus. Massive parallel sequencing using hybridization probes on cell-free fetal DNA in maternal plasma indicated that the fetal CAH status was correctly deduced as early as 5 weeks 6 days of gestation. This is a noninvasive technique that accurately diagnoses CAH before the ninth week of gestation. TREATMENT Routine Treatment The goal of therapy in CAH is to both correct the deficiency in cortisol secretion and to suppress ACTH overproduction. Proper treatment with glucocorticoid reduces stimulation of the androgen pathway, thus preventing further virilization and allowing normal growth and development. The usual requirement of hydrocortisone (or its equivalent) for the treatment of classical 21-OHD form of CAH is about 10-15 mg/m 2 /day divided into 2 or 3 doses per day and for non-classical 21-OHD 5-8 mg/m 2 /day divided into 2 or 3 doses per day. Hydrocortisone is the glucocorticoid of choice in the pediatric age group. Prednisolone and dexamethasone are not used in growing children given growth suppressive effects. A small dose of dexamethasone at bedtime (0.25 to 0.5 mg) is usually adequate for androgen suppression in non-classical adult patients. Adequate biochemical control is assessed by measuring serum levels 17-OHP and androstenedione; serum testosterone can be used in females and prepubertal males (but not newborn males). We recommend that hormone levels are measured at a consistent time in relation to medication dosing, usually 1-2 hours after the morning corticosteroid. Titration of the dose should be aimed at maintaining 17-OHP concentrations below 1000 ng/dL and androstenedione concentrations below 200 ng/dl. Over-treatment should be avoided because it can lead to Cushing syndrome. Patients with salt wasting CAH have elevated plasma renin in response to the sodium-deficient state, and they require treatment with the salt-retaining 9α-fludrocortisone acetate. The average dose is 0.1 mg daily (0.05-0.2 mg daily). Infants should also be started on salt supplementation, as sodium chloride, at 1-2 g daily, divided into several feedings. Measurements of plasma renin and aldosterone are used to monitor the efficacy of mineralocorticoid therapy. Advancement of bone age is monitored by bone age x-rays. Growth hormone therapy, in conjunction with a GnRH analogue, has been shown to be effective in improving final adult height. Patients may also experience peripheral
