Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia: Diagnosis and Emergency Treatment
KEYWORDS: cah, adrenal, deficiency, congenital, males, patients, elevated, females, hydroxylase, hyperplasia, diagnosis, age, salt, ohd, salt wasting


monitored by bone age x-rays. Growth hormone therapy, in conjunction with a GnRH analogue, has been shown to be effective in improving final adult height. Patients may also experience peripheral precocious puberty, which requires treatment with gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogues. Aromatase inhibitors and growth hormone therapy should only be used in patients with a very short predicted final stature or in clinical trials. Use of aromatase inhibitors in CAH has been shown decrease bone maturation rates and some increase in adult height but the differences were not statistically significant. Treatment During Illness and Emergency Adrenal crisis can present as hypotension or shock and serum electrolyte abnormalities (hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, hyperkalemia, acidosis). During adrenal crisis, an immediate bolus of hydrocortisone 50-100 mg can be given intravenously or intramuscularly followed by hydrocortisone 100 mg/m2/day given as either continuous infusion or divided at least every 6 hours. Rehydration can be started with 20ml/kg isotonic saline with D5 as rapid bolus followed by repeat boluses or continuous infusion guided by level of dehydration. Hypoglycemia may require dextrose bolus and an initial bolus of 0.5-1 gram/kg of dextrose can be given intravenously at 2-3 ml per minute. If hyperkalemia is present, cardiac monitoring should be done to monitor for EKG changes. If changes are present, hyperkalemia should be treated using insulin with glucose infusion with or without other measures. In non-life-threatening periods of illness or physiologic stress, the corticosteroid dose should be increased to 2 or 3 times the maintenance dose for the duration of that period, divided into 3 daily doses. Each family should be given injection kits of hydrocortisone, i.e. Solu-Cortef, for emergency use, and all family members should be trained in its intramuscular administration. The injectable dose of hydrocortisone in an emergency is 25 mg for infants, 50 mg for children under 40 kg, and 100 mg for children over 40 kg and for adults. In the event of a surgical procedure, 5-10 times the daily maintenance dose of hydrocortisone is needed, with 25-100 mg hydrocortisone IM/IV administered before and during a surgical procedure (as per infant, child, adult recommendations above), followed by high doses of hydrocortisone during the first 24-48 post-operative hours; the dose can then be tapered over the following days to the normal preoperative schedule. Stress doses of dexamethasone should not be given because of the delayed onset of action. It is not necessary for increased mineralocorticoid doses during these periods
