Open Forum Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, data, japanese, fever, high, tsutsugamushi, sfts, patients, tick-borne, study, spotted, middle, japan, japanese spotted, elevation


MAJOR ARTICLE Analysis of Differences in Characteristics of High-Risk Endemic Areas for Contracting Japanese Spotted Fever, Tsutsugamushi Disease, and Severe Fever With Thrombocytopenia Syndrome Takahisa Ogawa,1 ,2 ,a, Shinya Tsuzuki,3 ,4 ,a, Hiroyuki Ohbe,5 , Hiroki Matsui,5 Kiyohide Fushimi,2 Hideo Yasunaga,5 and Satoshi Kutsuna6 Background. Tick-borne infections, including tsutsugamushi disease, Japanese spotted fever, and severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome (SFTS), are prevalent in East Asia with varying geographic distribution and seasonality. This study aimed to investigate the differences in the characteristics among endemic areas for contracting each infection. Methods. We conducted an ecologic study in Japan, using data from a nationwide inpatient database and publicly available geospatial data. We identified 4493 patients who were hospitalized for tick-borne infections between July 2010 and March 2021. Mixed-effects modified Poisson regression analysis was used to identify factors associated with a higher risk of contracting each tick-borne disease (Tsutsugamushi, Japanese spotted fever, and SFTS). Results. Mixed-effects modified Poisson regression analysis revealed that environmental factors, such as temperature, sunlight duration, elevation, precipitation, and vegetation, were associated with the risk of contracting these diseases. Tsutsugamushi disease was positively associated with higher temperatures, farms, and forests, whereas Japanese spotted fever and SFTS were positively associated with higher solar radiation and forests. Conclusions. Our findings from this ecologic study indicate that different environmental factors play a significant role in the risk of transmission of tick-borne infections. Understanding the differences can aid in identifying high-risk areas and developing public health strategies for infection prevention. Further research is needed to address causal relationships. Keywords. ecologic study; mixed-effect model; tick-borne disease. Tick-borne infections are endemic worldwide, and many be occurring because the ticks carrying Japanese spotted fever emerging infectious diseases have been identified in recent and SFTS are unevenly distributed in western Japan . taneously in East Asia: tsutsugamushi disease, Japanese spotted incide. Additionally, their geographic distribution and season- fever, and severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome ality are not always consistent . One reason for this may be (SFTS) [1–4]. The epidemiology of tick-borne infectious dis- the different vectors transmitting these infections. The vectors eases in Japan varies from disease to disease. In Japan, tsutsu- of Rickettsia japonica, the pathogen of Japanese spotted fever, gamushi disease has been reported throughout the country are reported as Haemaphysalis flava, Haemaphysalis longicor- except in Hokkaido, while cases of Japanese spotted fever and nis, and Ixodes ovatus [8–10]. Orientia tsutsugamushi, the caus- SFTS have mainly
