Open Forum Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, data, japanese, fever, high, tsutsugamushi, sfts, patients, tick-borne, study, spotted, middle, japan, japanese spotted, elevation


>1200 rameters were available at only the code level. Finally, the acute care hospitals that voluntarily contribute to the data- patients’ individual data and geospatial information were base in Japan . The coverage rate of inpatients in this da- merged by city code . tabase over all acute care inpatients in Japan exceeded 50%. The database covers approximately 90% of all tertiary care Statistical Analysis emergency hospitals and 80% of the institutions certified Mixed-effects modified Poisson regression analysis was used by the Japanese Association for Infectious Diseases for to identify factors associated with a higher risk of contracting training board specialists. A previous validation study of each tick-borne disease (Tsutsugamushi, Japanese spotted fe- this database showed high specificity and moderate sensitiv- ver, and SFTS). Poisson regression is considered appropriate ity for diagnoses and high specificity and sensitivity for for analyzing rare events. When it is applied to binomial procedures . data, the error in the estimated relative risk is overestimated Using the Japanese DPC inpatient database from July 2010 . This problem may be rectified by using a robust error var- to March 2021, we identified all patients hospitalized for tick- iance procedure known as sandwich estimation or modified borne infections based on ICD-10 codes A68, A69, A75, A77, Poisson regression . A79, A84, A93, B60, and B88 (Supplementary Table 1). We ex- Each Poisson regression model included the number of cluded patients with a suspected diagnosis of tick-borne infec- cases in each subdistrict, defined by the GIS data as the de- tion. We also identified patients hospitalized for Japanese pendent variable. For the independent variables, we included spotted fever (ICD-10 code A778), tsutsugamushi disease monthly mean temperature, mean solar radiation, monthly (code A753), and SFTS (code A938). We obtained information total precipitation, mean elevation, and vegetation (forest, about the patients’ residential areas using aggregated city farm, or others) in each subdistrict as fixed effects and only code–level data based on the zip codes of the patients’ residen- population in each district as the random effect. Climate tial areas to calculate the number of cases in an area during and elevation data were classified into 3 tertile categories. the observation period. In calculating the number of cases, We defined temperature, solar radiation, precipitation, and we assumed that nearly all patients who developed a tick- elevation by 3 quartiles (low, middle, and high) and used borne infectious disease would have been
