Open Forum Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: disease, data, japanese, fever, high, tsutsugamushi, sfts, patients, tick-borne, study, spotted, middle, japan, japanese spotted, elevation


to 15% for each addi- Leptotrombidium scutellare mites . Thus, some ticks may tional 1 °C increase in average monthly temperature over the vector SFTSV and scrub typhus, but these coinfections were past 3 months, 6% to 12% for an additional 1% increase in not analyzed in our research. monthly relative humidity over the past 2 months, and 0% to 7% an additional 1-mm increase in monthly precipitation CONCLUSION over the past 3 months . Several other studies have found that temperature, humidity, and rainfall are associated with Our study revealed the relationship of the risk of Japanese spot- the risk of tsutsugamushi disease transmission . To our ted fever, tsutsugamushi disease, and SFTS with the character- knowledge, this is the first study to show that environmental istics of environmental factors. These results may help identify factors are associated with the risk of tsutsugamushi disease areas at high risk of infection transmission, which will be useful in Japan. in educating the public on infection prevention. For Japanese spotted fever, no studies have analyzed the as- sociation between the risk of infection and environmental fac- Supplementary Data tors. In Japan, erythrocytic fever cases are concentrated in the Supplementary materialsare available at Open Forum Infectious Diseases online. Consisting of data provided by the authors to benefit the reader, the western part of the country, which is thought to be due to the posted materials are not copyedited and are the sole responsibility of the influence of temperature and climate on tick survival in these authors, so questions or comments should be addressed to the correspond- regions. ing author. SFTS, an emerging tick-borne infectious disease caused by the SFTS virus, was first reported in China in 2009 . Notes Cases have been documented in Japan since 2013, primarily Author contributions. S. K. conceived the study. H. O. curated the in western Japan . Our study showed that the risk of SFTS data. T. O. and S. T. analyzed the data. H. M., K. F., and H. Y supervised the study. All authors interpreted the results, wrote the first draft of the was higher in areas with long daylight hours and in forested ar- manuscript, and critically reviewed it. All authors agreed with the final ver- eas. Deng et al reported that the incidence of SFTS in- sion of the manuscript. creased when the daylight duration was >11 hours per day Data availability. Data
