Pharmacologic Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, pubmed, weight loss, placebo, semaglutide, patients, trial, diabetes, treatment, adults, free, pmc free, pmc


ABSTRACT Obesity pharmacotherapy has evolved significantly over the past 60 years. Today, six anti-obesity medications (AOMs) are approved by the Federal Drug Administration (FDA) for the long-term treatment of obesity. Similar in approach to other chronic diseases, AOMs are indicated in combination with lifestyle modification for the management of overweight and obesity. Current guidelines recommend that individuals who have attempted lifestyle improvements and continue to have a body mass index (BMI) of ≥ 30 kg/m 2 or ≥ 27 kg/m 2 with an obesity-related comorbidity are eligible for weight loss medication treatment. The AOMs reviewed in this chapter include the FDA-approved medicines for chronic weight management, FDA-approved medicines for short-term use of weight management, and off-label use of medicines that have demonstrated benefits for weight control. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Obesity is recognized as a major pandemic of the 21 st century, contributing to increased morbidity, mortality, and the burden of healthcare costs ( 1 ). Overweight and obesity are defined by the World Health Organization (WHO) as a BMI of 25-29.9 kg/m 2 and a BMI ≥ 30 kg/m 2 , respectively ( 2 ). In the United States, the prevalence of obesity had risen to 42.4% in 2017-2018 ( 3 ) and predictive models now suggest that the prevalence will grow to one in two adults by 2030 ( 4 ). Internationally, one in five adults now have obesity ( 5 ). The Global Burden of Disease study reports that overweight and obesity are the fourth leading risk for global deaths, and more than 4.7 million adults die each year as a result of overweight or obesity ( 6 ). Obesity is a major risk factor in the development of cardiovascular disease (CVD), type 2 diabetes (T2D), musculoskeletal disorders, and several cancers ( 2 ). In certain ethnic populations (i.e., East Asian or South Asian), these comorbidities can develop at lower BMIs ( 7 ). The associations between obesity, central obesity (increased waist circumference, especially intra-abdominal/visceral fat) and the risks for cardiometabolic diseases as well as obstructive sleep apnea, asthma, and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) are well established ( 8 , 9 ). Cytokines secreted from visceral adipocytes, including interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor alpha, resistin, and plasminogen activation inhibitor-1, have been implicated in the pathogenesis of these diseases, in part by promoting local
