Pharmacologic Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, pubmed, weight loss, placebo, semaglutide, patients, trial, diabetes, treatment, adults, free, pmc free, pmc


Cytokines secreted from visceral adipocytes, including interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor alpha, resistin, and plasminogen activation inhibitor-1, have been implicated in the pathogenesis of these diseases, in part by promoting local and systemic states of inflammation and thrombosis ( 10 - 12 ). A reduction in body weight of 5-10% significantly lowers inflammatory and pro-thrombotic makers, as well as chronic disease incidence ( 13 , 14 ). OBESITY PHARMACOTHERAPY Principles of Obesity Pharmacotherapy As with other chronic metabolic diseases, the initial management of overweight and obesity emphasizes sustainable nutritional, physical activity, and behavioral changes that have been shown to reduce weight and lower cardiometabolic risk. However, lifestyle interventions that include caloric restriction and/or portion control alone are insufficient in achieving long-term weight loss maintenance in most patients, with one-third to two-thirds of lost weight regained within one-year following end of treatment, and > 95% weight regained within 5 years ( 15 ). For patients who have failed to achieve clinically significant weight loss, defined as ≥ 5% of baseline weight ( 16 ) after 6 months of lifestyle interventions ( 16 - 19 ), professional organizations including The Obesity Society, the Endocrine Society, and the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists recommend AOMs for individuals with BMI ≥ 30 kg/m 2 or BMI ≥ 27 kg/m 2 with comorbidities. For health care professionals using pharmacotherapy for weight management, the following basic principles can be kept in mind: Lifelong treatment: Because obesity is a chronic disease, pharmacotherapy should be prescribed with the intent of lifelong use and as part of a comprehensive management plan that includes nutrition, physical activity, and behavioral counseling. Discontinuation of an AOM often leads to weight regain. AOMs affect pathophysiological pathways that lead to obesity: Current obesity pharmacotherapy targets the underlying neurohormonal dysregulations that cause weight gain and prevent sustained weight loss. Changes in hormones in response to diet-induced weight loss, such as reduction in the anorexigenic hormone leptin and increase in the orexigenic hormone ghrelin, create a physiologic environment conducive to the body returning to its previously established, higher body weight set point ( 20 , 21 ). Additional adaptation responses to diet-induced weight loss affecting energy expenditure, including reductions in basal metabolic rate, also challenge weight loss maintenance ( 22 , 23 ). Treatments benefit both weight and comorbidities: The goals of obesity treatment are primary, secondary, and tertiary prevention ( 17 ); that is, to prevent
