Pharmacologic Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, pubmed, weight loss, placebo, semaglutide, patients, trial, diabetes, treatment, adults, free, pmc free, pmc


maintenance ( 22 , 23 ). Treatments benefit both weight and comorbidities: The goals of obesity treatment are primary, secondary, and tertiary prevention ( 17 ); that is, to prevent the development or exacerbation of obesity and its complications. For example, improvements in cardiometabolic risk factors and reduced diabetes risk have been consistently reported in the Phase 3 trials for AOM’s. Expect heterogeneity in weight loss response: Phase 3 trials have consistently demonstrated that AOMs achieve significantly greater weight loss than placebo when combined with lifestyle modifications ( 24 - 31 ). The average efficacy in these studies ranges from 5-23% total body weight loss. However, as with any medical therapy, significant inter-individual response variability ( 32 , 33 ) has been reported, including the possibility of no weight loss (non-responders) to 25% or greater weight loss. History of Anti-Obesity Medications The development of AOMs dates as far back as the 1940s, predating the standard FDA rules and regulations that are familiar today. Drug approval in the 1940s necessitated only proof of efficacy beyond placebo; evaluation of benefit versus risk with controlled investigations was not a requirement until passage of the Kefauver-Harris amendment in 1962. Approval of the first AOM, desoxyephedrine, in 1947 led to the development of a number of amphetamine derivatives for weight loss that have all since been removed from the market due to this amendment ( 34 ). A comprehensive narrative of the history of AOMs covers the development of pharmacotherapy and the FDA’s role in regulation ( 35 ). Since the FDA’s adoption of stricter regulations and proof of clinical efficacy, only a couple of AOMs have been removed from the U.S. market for safety concerns ( Table 1 ). Table 1. Selected Historical Anti-Obesity Medications View in own window Name (Trade Name) Years Approved Reason for Removal Sibutramine (Meridia) 1997-2010 Patients at high risk for CVD were found to have elevated risk of CVD events when given sibutramine ( 36 ) Lorcaserin (Belviq) 2012-2020 Re-analysis of a safety clinical trial showed an increased incidence of certain cancers ( 37 ) Only two AOMs have been removed from the market in recent history. The administration of sibutramine to individuals at high risk of CVD in the SCOUT trial was widely criticized by the medical community as it did not reflect real-life clinical practice; subgroup analysis of patients with T2D without CVD in SCOUT actually showed
