Pharmacologic Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, pubmed, weight loss, placebo, semaglutide, patients, trial, diabetes, treatment, adults, free, pmc free, pmc


resulted in average weight loss of 9.8% at 6 months vs. 3.2% with placebo ( 42 ). Phentermine’s and diethylpropion’s main side effects are related to their sympathomimetic properties, including elevation in blood pressure and pulse, insomnia, constipation, and dry mouth ( 47 ). Sympathomimetic agents are contraindicated in individuals with uncontrolled hypertension, known CVD (e.g., coronary artery disease, stroke, arrhythmias, congestive heart failure), hyperthyroidism, glaucoma, or exposure to monoamine oxidase inhibitors during or within 14 days of administration. Caution should be used in patients with pulmonary hypertension. ORLISTAT Orlistat (trade name Xenical) is approved for adult and adolescent obesity (ages 12 to 16) ( 48 ). It promotes weight loss by inhibiting gastrointestinal lipases, thereby decreasing the absorption of fat from the gastrointestinal tract. On average, 120 mg of orlistat taken three times per day will decrease fat absorption by 30% ( 49 ). Orlistat has been found to be more effective in inhibiting the digestion of fat in solid foods, as opposed to liquids ( 50 ). Orlistat at a lower dose of 60 mg 3 times daily (trade name Alli) is approved for over-the-counter use in the United States ( 51 ). Efficacy Several trials support orlistat’s efficacy for weight loss and maintenance. Rossner et al. found that subjects receiving orlistat lost significantly more weight in the first year of treatment, and fewer regained weight during the second year of treatment, than those taking placebo ( 52 ). Subjects taking orlistat had significantly lower serum levels of vitamins D, E, and B-carotene. However, these nutritional deficiencies are easily treated with oral multivitamin supplementation. Trials in Europe demonstrated similar results over a two-year period. Subjects in the orlistat group lost significantly more weight in the first year (10.2 vs. 6.1%) and regained half as much weight during the second year of treatment, as compared to the placebo group ( 53 ). Effect on Metabolic Profile In addition to promoting weight loss and maintaining lost weight, orlistat has been shown to improve insulin sensitivity and lower serum glucose levels. In a 2-year trial, Davidson et al. reported less weight regain rates and lower levels of serum glucose and insulin in patients maintained on a 120 mg three times per day dose of orlistat, as compared to those on placebo ( 54 ). In the 4-year XENDOS study conducted in Sweden, the cumulative incidence of T2D was 9.0% in the
