Pharmacologic Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, pubmed, weight loss, placebo, semaglutide, patients, trial, diabetes, treatment, adults, free, pmc free, pmc


day dose of orlistat, as compared to those on placebo ( 54 ). In the 4-year XENDOS study conducted in Sweden, the cumulative incidence of T2D was 9.0% in the placebo plus diet and lifestyle group and 6.2% in the subjects receiving orlistat ( 24 ), corresponding to a risk reduction in development of T2D of 37.3%. In patients with obesity and T2D with or without insulin treatment, orlistat resulted in improved glycemic control, determined via serum blood glucose levels and hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) measurements, and reduced total cholesterol, low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, triglyceride, and apolipoprotein B levels ( 55 , 56 ). In subjects with obesity and T2D, hypercholesterolemia, or hypertension, orlistat treatment also led to greater weight loss and reductions in HbA1c, LDL, and total cholesterol ( 57 ). Safety and Side-Effects The gastrointestinal side effects of orlistat, including fatty/oily stool, fecal urgency, oily spotting, increased defecation, fecal incontinence, flatus with discharge, and oily evacuation ( 48 ), are the main reasons for discontinuation of therapy. These symptoms are usually mild to moderate and decrease in frequency the longer the medication is continued. Administration of orlistat with psyllium mucilloid reduced the incidence of GI side effects to 29% with psyllium vs. 71% without psyllium ( 58 ). Orlistat may reduce the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins A, D, E, and K, which can be mitigated with separate administration of vitamin supplementation. PHENTERMINE/TOPIRAMATE The controlled-release, single-tablet combination phentermine plus topiramate (trade name Qsymia) was approved by the FDA in 2012 as a long-term treatment for obesity for adults with BMI ≥ 30 kg/m 2 or BMI ≥27 kg/m 2 with at least one weight-related comorbidity. Phentermine is thought to promote weight loss by increasing norepinephrine release and decreasing its uptake in hypothalamic nuclei, leading to a decrease in food intake ( 59 ). It also acts as an adrenergic agonist that activates the sympathetic nervous system ( 60 ) to possibly increase energy expenditure. Topiramate is an FDA-approved medicine for epilepsy and migraine prophylaxis that has been shown to reduce body weight by promoting taste aversion and decreasing caloric intake ( 61 ). A carbonic-anhydrase inhibitor, topiramate was found to stimulate lipolysis in preclinical studies ( 62 ). Phentermine/topiramate is available in 4 doses: 3.75/23 mg (starting dose), 7.5/46 mg (lowest treatment dose), 11.25/69 mg or 15/92 mg (maximum treatment dose) daily. Efficacy Multiple Phase 1, 2, and 3
