Pharmacologic Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, pubmed, weight loss, placebo, semaglutide, patients, trial, diabetes, treatment, adults, free, pmc free, pmc


is available in 4 doses: 3.75/23 mg (starting dose), 7.5/46 mg (lowest treatment dose), 11.25/69 mg or 15/92 mg (maximum treatment dose) daily. Efficacy Multiple Phase 1, 2, and 3 studies including more than 5000 subjects have evaluated the efficacy and safety of phentermine/topiramate combination therapy. The one-year EQUIP trial, a phase three 56-week RCT enrolled 1267 patients with obesity (mean BMI of 42.0 kg/m 2 ) and showed 3.5% weight loss in the starting dose group (3.75 mg/23 mg) and 9.3% placebo-subtracted weight loss in the top treatment dose (15 mg/92 mg) group ( 27 ). The 52-week CONQUER trial randomized 2487 patients with obesity and a comorbidity (e.g. hypertension, dyslipidemia, prediabetes, diabetes, or abdominal obesity) to placebo, mid-dose treatment dose (7.5mg/46 mg), or maximum treatment dose (15/92 mg) and found 6.6% and 8.6% placebo-subtracted weight loss in the mid and maximum dose arms, respectively ( 26 ). A two-year extension of the CONQUER trial was published (SEQUEL) demonstrating mean placebo-subtracted weight loss of 7.5% in the mid-dose group and 8.7% in the maximum-dose group ( 63 ). Effect on Metabolic Profile Improvements in systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP), triglycerides, and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol were seen in subjects treated with phentermine plus topiramate compared with placebo in both EQUIP and CONQUER ( 26 , 27 ). Improvements in fasting glucose and insulin levels were seen in the SEQUEL study, and a 54% and 76% reduction in progression to T2D in the two treatment groups was noted in subjects without diabetes at baseline ( 63 ). Safety and Side Effects Phentermine-topiramate is not recommended for patients with significant cardiac history such as coronary disease and uncontrolled hypertension ( 64 ). However, in individuals without coronary disease and with well-controlled hypertension, it is considered safe to use this drug along with regular blood pressure monitoring. Phentermine/topiramate exposure carries an increased risk of cleft lip/palate in infants exposed to the combination drug during the first trimester of pregnancy. Women of child-bearing age should have a pregnancy test prior to starting the medicine and be using contraception while taking it. Clinicians who prescribe phentermine-topiramate and pharmacists who dispense it should enroll in a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS), which includes education on prescribing information, monitoring during treatment, and side effects. This medication is also contraindicated in patients with hyperthyroidism, glaucoma, and in patients who have taken monoamine oxidase
