Pharmacologic Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, pubmed, weight loss, placebo, semaglutide, patients, trial, diabetes, treatment, adults, free, pmc free, pmc


which includes education on prescribing information, monitoring during treatment, and side effects. This medication is also contraindicated in patients with hyperthyroidism, glaucoma, and in patients who have taken monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors within 14 days. Topiramate can increase the risk of acidosis and renal stones so should be used cautiously in patients who have had stones previously ( 65 ). In order to mitigate side effects, which include paresthesias, dizziness, dry mouth, constipation, dysgeusia, insomnia, and anxiety, a step-wise dosage titration is recommended. Phentermine-topiramate is initiated at the 3.75/23 mg dose daily for 14 days, followed by 7.5/46 mg daily thereafter. If after 12 weeks, a 3 percent loss in baseline bodyweight is not achieved, the dose can be increased to 11.25/69 mg for 14 days, and then to 15/92 mg daily. If an individual does not lose 5 percent of body weight after 12 weeks on the highest dose, phentermine-topiramate should be discontinued due to lack of response. Discontinuation should be performed gradually because rapid withdrawal of topiramate may provoke seizures. BUPROPION/NALTREXONE The combination tablet of bupropion and naltrexone (trade name Contrave) was FDA-approved for weight loss in September 2014. Bupropion is a reuptake inhibitor of dopamine and norepinephrine that promotes activation of the central melanocortin pathways ( 66 ). Naltrexone is an opioid receptor antagonist that diminishes the mu-opioid receptor auto-inhibitory feedback loop on anorexigenic hypothalamic neurons activated by bupropion, thereby allowing for sustained weight loss ( 67 ). Bupropion/naltrexone comes in tablets containing 90 mg of bupropion HCl sustained-release and 8 mg of naltrexone HCl. The recommended starting dose is 1 tablet daily and increasing by 1 tablet each week until a total dose of 2 tabs twice daily is reached (total daily dose: bupropion 360 mg/naltrexone 32 mg). Efficacy Four 56-week multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials (CONTRAVE Obesity Research: COR-I, COR-II, COR-BMOD, and COR-Diabetes) were conducted to evaluate the effect of bupropion/naltrexone in conjunction with lifestyle modification compared to a placebo-controlled cohort of 4536 patients. The COR-I, COR-II, and COR-BMOD trials enrolled patients with BMI ≥ 30 kg/m 2 or BMI ≥ 27 kg/m 2 with at least one comorbidity ( 25 , 30 , 44 ). The COR-Diabetes trial enrolled patients with BMI greater than 27 kg/m 2 with T2D with or without hypertension or dyslipidemia ( 68 ). The primary endpoints were percent change from baseline body weight and the proportion of patients achieving at
