Pharmacologic Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, pubmed, weight loss, placebo, semaglutide, patients, trial, diabetes, treatment, adults, free, pmc free, pmc


kg/m 2 with T2D with or without hypertension or dyslipidemia ( 68 ). The primary endpoints were percent change from baseline body weight and the proportion of patients achieving at least a 5% reduction in body weight. In the 56-week COR-I trial, significantly greater mean weight loss (6.1%) occurred in patients assigned to naltrexone 32 mg/bupropion 360 mg dose compared with the placebo group (1.3%), and 48% of active treatment group achieved ≥5% weight loss compared to only 16% of placebo group ( 44 ). Similar weight loss efficacy was reported in COR-II ( 25 ) and COR-Diabetes ( 68 ) trials. Bupropion/naltrexone can be combined with intensive behavioral therapy (IBT) to achieve even greater weight loss (5.2% with placebo and 9.3% with bupropion/naltrexone) ( 30 ). Effect on Metabolic Profile In all of the COR trials, secondary cardiovascular risk endpoints were met, including statistically significant greater improvements in waist circumference (WC), visceral fat, HDL cholesterol, and triglyceride levels in the participants treated with the bupropion 360 mg/naltrexone 32 mg dose compared with placebo-treated participants ( 25 , 30 , 44 , 68 ). Participants with diabetes in the COR-Diabetes trial using bupropion/naltrexone also showed a significantly greater 0.6% reduction in HbA1c from baseline, compared to a 0.1% reduction in placebo ( 68 ). Safety and Side Effects The most common side effects of bupropion/naltrexone include nausea/vomiting, constipation, headache, dizziness, insomnia, and dry mouth. Medication interactions include MAO inhibitors (use during or within 14 days of administration), opioids and opioid agonists (including partial agonists) that are inactive in the presence of naltrexone, and abrupt discontinuation of alcohol, benzodiazepines, barbiturates, or antiepileptic drugs that can increase risk for seizure. Bupropion/naltrexone should be avoided in patients with uncontrolled hypertension, history of seizures, history of bulimia or anorexia nervosa, and in individuals taking narcotics for pain control ( 69 ). The FDA recommends monitoring patients for worsening or emergence of suicidal thoughts or behaviors. Women of child-bearing age should have a pregnancy test prior to starting the medicine and be using contraception while taking it. LIRAGLUTIDE 3.0 Liraglutide 3.0 mg (trade name Saxenda) was approved by the FDA in December 2014 for adult obesity and has proven efficacy in adolescents age 12 to <18 years of age ( 70 ). Liraglutide is a glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) analogue that activates the GLP-1 receptor. In animal studies, peripheral administration of liraglutide results in uptake in
