Pharmacologic Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, pubmed, weight loss, placebo, semaglutide, patients, trial, diabetes, treatment, adults, free, pmc free, pmc


<18 years of age ( 70 ). Liraglutide is a glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) analogue that activates the GLP-1 receptor. In animal studies, peripheral administration of liraglutide results in uptake in specific brain regions regulating appetite, including the hypothalamus and brainstem ( 71 ). A short-term study (5 weeks) involving individuals with obesity and without diabetes demonstrated that liraglutide 3.0 mg/d suppressed acute food intake, subjective hunger, and delayed gastric emptying ( 72 ). Energy expenditure in subjects treated with liraglutide 3.0 mg/d decreased, even when corrected for weight loss ( 72 ), which may reflect metabolic adaptation to weight loss. Efficacy SCALE Obesity and Prediabetes (n=3731) and SCALE Diabetes (n=846) evaluated the effect of liraglutide 3.0 mg on overweight and obesity with normoglycemia, prediabetes, and diabetes respectively ( 28 , 73 ). Both 56-week, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind clinical trials demonstrated significantly greater mean weight loss than placebo (8% vs. 2.6% in SCALE Obesity and Prediabetes ( 28 ) and 6.0% vs. 2% in SCALE Diabetes ( 73 ). The efficacy of liraglutide 3.0 in maintaining weight loss was examined in the SCALE Maintenance study. Four hundred and twenty-two subjects who lost ≥ 5% of their initial body weight on a low-calorie diet were randomly assigned to liraglutide 3.0 mg daily or placebo for 56 weeks. Mean weight loss on the initial diet was 6.0%. By the end of the study, participants in the liraglutide 3.0 group lost an additional 6.2% compared to 0.2% with placebo ( 74 ). Effect on Metabolic Profile Secondary endpoints in the SCALE Obesity and Prediabetes included waist circumference, lipids, HbA1c, and blood pressure, all of which showed significantly greater improvement than placebo ( 28 ). SBP dropped by 4.2 mmHg vs. 1.5 mmHg in the liraglutide 3.0 mg vs. placebo groups. Diastolic blood pressured was reduced by 2.6 mm Hg vs. 1.9 mm Hg. The most significant change in lipid profile was in the triglycerides that were reduced by 13.0 mg/dl in the liraglutide 3.0 mg group vs. 5.5 mg/dl in the placebo group. Participants assigned to liraglutide 3.0 had a lower frequency of prediabetes and were less likely to develop T2D than those assigned to placebo ( 28 ), an outcome that persisted in a 3-year extension analysis ( 75 ). For participants with obesity and moderate/severe obstructive sleep apnea, liraglutide 3.0 mg treatment resulted in significantly greater reductions than placebo in apnea-hypopnea index,
