Pharmacologic Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, pubmed, weight loss, placebo, semaglutide, patients, trial, diabetes, treatment, adults, free, pmc free, pmc


a 3-year extension analysis ( 75 ). For participants with obesity and moderate/severe obstructive sleep apnea, liraglutide 3.0 mg treatment resulted in significantly greater reductions than placebo in apnea-hypopnea index, body weight, SBP, and HbA1c levels ( 76 ). In the SCALE Diabetes study, HbA1c levels were 0.93% lower in the liraglutide 3.0 vs. placebo treated group, and similar significant benefits on triglyceride (lower) and HDL cholesterol (higher) as in the SCALE Obesity study were reported ( 73 ). Although liraglutide 3.0 mg was not evaluated in a cardiovascular outcomes trial (CVOT), the lower dose liraglutide 1.8 mg (Victoza), approved for T2D, was assessed in the LEADER trial ( 77 ). The primary outcome was a composite of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) including CVD death, nonfatal myocardial infarction (MI), and nonfatal stroke. Adults with T2D and baseline average BMI 32.5 kg/m 2 were randomized to liraglutide 1.8 mg vs. placebo. Approximately 81% of participants had established CVD. After a median of 3.8 years, individuals on liraglutide 1.8 mg demonstrated a 13% risk reduction in 3-point MACE compared to placebo. Analysis of additional outcomes showed a 22% reduction in CVD death and a 15% reduction in all-cause deaths. This risk reduction was driven primarily by a reduction in death from CV causes (p=0.01 for superiority) and all-cause mortality was reduced by 15%. Statistical significance was not achieved with individual endpoints of nonfatal MI or nonfatal stroke. Liraglutide 1.8 mg is now FDA-approved for secondary CV prevention in adults with T2D ( 78 ). Safety and Side Effects Gastrointestinal symptoms, such as nausea, vomiting and abdominal pain were the most common reason subjects withdrew from the SCALE trials. In a secondary analysis of these trials, treatment with liraglutide 3.0 resulted in dose-independent, reversible increases in amylase/lipase activity (7% for amylase and 31% for lipase) ( 79 ). Thirteen subjects (0.4%) in the liraglutide 3.0 group compared to one (0.1%) with placebo developed pancreatitis, but nearly half of these had evidence for gallstones as well ( 79 ). Even though liraglutide treatment showed improvements in blood pressure and lipids, it was found to increase heart rate by an average of 2 beats/min in SCALE Diabetes ( 73 ). Animal studies with liraglutide showing an association with medullary thyroid cancer have led to FDA label warnings. Even though the relevance of this observation to humans has not been determined, a personal or family
