Pharmacologic Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, pubmed, weight loss, placebo, semaglutide, patients, trial, diabetes, treatment, adults, free, pmc free, pmc


showing an association with medullary thyroid cancer have led to FDA label warnings. Even though the relevance of this observation to humans has not been determined, a personal or family history of medullary thyroid cancer or multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 (MEN 2) is considered a contraindication for treatment with this medication ( 80 ). Women of child-bearing age should have a pregnancy test prior to starting the medicine and be using contraception while taking it. SETMELANOTIDE Setmelanotide (trade name Imcivree) is a melanocortin-4-receptor (MC4R) agonist that was FDA-approved in November 2020 for the treatment of monogenic obesity due to pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC), proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 1 (PCSK1), or leptin receptor (LEPR) deficiency in individuals ages 6 or older ( 81 ). Binding of leptin to its receptor causes intracellular PCSK1 to cleave the POMC peptide into alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (ɑMSH), which is the endogenous agonist of MC4R ( 82 ). Deficiencies in this pathway manifest clinically as hyperphagia, impaired pubertal development, obesity, and insulin resistance with individuals who are homozygous or compound heterozygous for deleterious mutations in POMC also presenting with adrenal insufficiency and hypopigmentation. Setmelanotide is administered as a once daily subcutaneous injection starting at 2 mg daily in patients age 12 or older and 1 mg daily in patients age 6 to less than 12 years. Dose may be titrated up to a maximum of 3 mg daily depending on tolerance and efficacy. Efficacy A single-arm, open-label, multicenter phase 3 trial of 21 participants aged 6 years and older evaluated the efficacy of setmelanotide for weight loss in patients with POMC deficiency (homozygous or compound heterozygous variants in POMC or PCSK1) or LEPR deficiency ( 83 ). After 12 weeks of treatment, those who lost at least 5 kg (or 5% if baseline weight was <100 kg) were then continued into an 8-week placebo-controlled withdrawal phase consisting of 4 weeks each of blinded setmelanotide or placebo treatment followed by an additional 32 weeks of open-label treatment. After approximately 1-year, mean weight loss was 25.6% among individuals with POMC deficiency and 12.5% among those with LEPR deficiency. Eight (80%) participants with POMC deficiency and 5 (45%) participants with LEPR deficiency achieved ≥ 10% weight loss. Effect on Metabolic Profile Individuals with POMC deficiency experienced an absolute reduction in HbA1c of -0.3%, and those with LEPR deficiency saw a reduction of -0.2%, neither of which were statistically significant. Lipid
