Pharmacologic Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, pubmed, weight loss, placebo, semaglutide, patients, trial, diabetes, treatment, adults, free, pmc free, pmc


semaglutide 2.4mg were nausea, diarrhea, vomiting and constipation. In the STEP 1 trial, these gastrointestinal side effects occurred more often in those receiving semaglutide vs. placebo (74.2% vs. 47.9%). However, most of these were mild-moderate in severity; serious adverse events occurred in 9.8% of those receiving semaglutide vs. 6.4% of those on placebo. Serious adverse events included serious gastrointestinal disorders (1.4% with semaglutide vs. 0% with placebo), hepatobiliary disorders (1.3% with semaglutide vs. 0.2% with placebo), gallbladder disorders (2.6% with semaglutide vs. 1.2% with placebo), and mild acute pancreatitis (0.2% with semaglutide vs. 0% placebo). Across all RCTs, participants experienced an average increase in heart rate of 1-4 beats per minute (bpm); 26% of individuals on semaglutide vs. 16% of those on placebo had increased heart rates by 20 bpm or more ( 84 ). Among patients with T2D, hypoglycemia occurred in 6.2% of patients treated with semaglutide vs. 2.5% of patients on placebo ( 89 ). Psychiatric side effects did not emerge as a treatment-related adverse event, and a real-world cohort study of over 200,000 patients found no evidence for increased risk of suicidal ideation ( 102 ). Like liraglutide, semaglutide is contraindicated in the setting of a personal or family history of medullary thyroid carcinoma or Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia syndrome type 2. In rodents, semaglutide was found to cause thyroid C-cell tumors, but no human cases have been linked to semaglutide use. A narrative review of RCT and real-world data found no compelling link between semaglutide and thyroid cancer ( 103 ), and a systematic review and meta-analysis further concluded there was no increased risk of any cancer with semaglutide ( 104 ). Women of child-bearing age should have a pregnancy test prior to starting the medicine and be using contraception while taking it. Semaglutide 2.4mg should be discontinued at least 2 months prior to conception per manufacturer’s recommendation ( 84 ). TIRZEPATIDE Tirzepatide (trade name Zepbound) is approved for the treatment of obesity (BMI ≥ 30) or overweight (BMI ≥ 27) with at least one weight-related comorbidity. Tirzepatide is a first-in-class dual agonist at GLP-1 and glucose-dependent insulinotropic peptide (GIP) receptors. It is administered via once weekly subcutaneous injection at doses of 2.5, 5, 7.5, 10, 12.5, and 15 mg. Tirzepatide is biased towards GIP activity, with less GLP1 agonism compared to endogenous GLP1. With respect to potential mechanisms for cardiometabolic protection and weight loss, the actions
