Pharmacologic Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, pubmed, weight loss, placebo, semaglutide, patients, trial, diabetes, treatment, adults, free, pmc free, pmc


comorbidity. At baseline, weight was 110.1 kg and BMI was 38.7. After 72 weeks, participants on tirzepatide lost 18.4% of their baseline weight while those on placebo gained 2.5%. Significant more people on tirzepatide than placebo achieved ≥5% weight loss: 87.5% vs 16.5%. The numerically lower average weight loss achieved in SURMOUNT-3 compared to that in SURMOUNT-1 has called into question the role of lifestyle management in the era of highly effective AOMs, but several potential areas of benefit have been identified, outside of weight: body composition and preservation of lean muscle mass, micronutrient adequacy, and cementation of behavior strategies associated with long-term weight loss maintenance ( 110 ). SURMOUNT-4 examined the efficacy of tirzepatide (10 or 15 mg) vs placebo for weight loss maintenance in adults who completed a 36-week lead-in weight loss period. At the end of 36 weeks, average weight loss was 20.9% with tirzepatide vs --- with placebo. From week 36 to week 88, participants lost an addition 5.5% with tirzepatide and gained 14.0% with placebo. Overall, tirzepatide resulted in weight loss maintenance, defined as ≥ 80% of weight lost, for 89.5% of participants compared to only 16.6% of those on placebo. The total mean weight change from week 0 to 88 was -25.3% vs -9.9% in tirzepatide vs placebo arms. The SURMOUNT trials were notable for a few unique characteristics: New in-class mechanism of action incorporating GIP agonism. More balanced male-to-female recruitment approximating 50%, compared to prior obesity clinical trials. A new threshold achieved for average weight loss, greater than 20%, a milestone approaching and surpassing that of some bariatric surgeries. Pending SURMOUNT trials include SURMOUNT-5, a head-to-head trial of tirzepatide vs semaglutide for obesity, and SURMOUNT-MMO, tirzepatide’s CVOT. Effect on Metabolic Profile The benefits of tirzepatide on cardiometabolic risk factors was consistent across all trials. Participants on tirzepatide experienced significantly greater improvements in SBP, DBP, fasting insulin, fasting glucose, A1c, LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, and triglycerides compared to placebo. In SURMOUNT-1, -2, and -3, SBP decreased by 5 to 7 mmHg with tirzepatide vs no change or increase in placebo groups. In SURMOUNT-4, during the weight loss maintenance phase, SBP increased by 2.1 mmHg with tirzepatide vs 8.4 mmHg with placebo. Insulin sensitivity improved among tirzepatide groups, with fasting insulin reduced by about 40% in SURMOUNT-1, -3, and -4. Among participants with obesity and T2D in SURMOUNT-2, A1c was reduced by about 2% with
