Pharmacologic Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, pubmed, weight loss, placebo, semaglutide, patients, trial, diabetes, treatment, adults, free, pmc free, pmc


among tirzepatide groups, with fasting insulin reduced by about 40% in SURMOUNT-1, -3, and -4. Among participants with obesity and T2D in SURMOUNT-2, A1c was reduced by about 2% with tirzepatide 10 or 15 mg vs 0.5% with placebo. The most dramatic improvements in lipid profiles remained the reduction of triglycerides of about 25% in SURMOUNT-1, -2, and -3, and up to 33% in SURMOUNT-4. Tirzepatide has recently been investigated in a phase 3 trial specific for benefits in obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). The SURMOUNT-OSA trial (n=469) assessed the safety and efficacy of tirzepatide 10 or 15mg weekly on adults with moderate-to-severe OSA and a BMI ≥30 ( 111 ). At 52 weeks, the trial showed a significant reduction in the apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) both in participants who were and were not receiving positive airway pressure (PAP) at baseline. In participants not receiving PAP therapy, those on tirzepatide had a reduction in AHI by -25.3 events/hr vs, -5.3 events/hr in placebo and a placebo subtracted weight loss of -16.1%. Similarly, in participants receiving PAP therapy at baseline, those on tirzepatide had a reduction in AHI by -29.3 event/hr vs. -5.5 events/hr in placebo and placebo subtracted weight loss of 17.3%. In a phase 2 study (SYNERGY-NASH) of participants with biopsy-confirmed metabolic-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) and stage F2 or F3 fibrosis, a significantly greater proportion of participants achieved resolution of MASH without worsening of fibrosis in tirzepatide groups compared to placebo after 52 weeks of treatment {Loomba 2024}: 44% (5 mg), 56% (10 mg), 62% (15 mg) vs 10% (placebo). Safety and Side Effects Across all four SURMOUNT obesity trials, the most common adverse events were gastrointestinal: nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation. Treatment discontinuation rates due to adverse events were generally low (2-8%). No imbalances were noted for incidence of pancreatitis between tirzepatide groups and placebo. No cases of medullary thyroid carcinoma or pancreatic cancer occurred. In general, the incidence of gallbladder disease was numerically greater in tirzepatide groups compared to placebo though the overall incidences were low (<1%). While all AOMs are contraindicated in pregnancy, tirzepatide has been observed to affect absorption of estradiol-containing oral contraceptives and potentially reduce their efficacy as birth control, specifically during dose escalation phases of tirzepatide. For this reason, individuals of childbearing potential should be counseled to use a second form of birth control during dose escalation. The purported mechanism for this interference is a reduction in
