Pharmacologic Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, pubmed, weight loss, placebo, semaglutide, patients, trial, diabetes, treatment, adults, free, pmc free, pmc


Gelesis100 or placebo in cardiovascular risk factors of LDL-C, HDL-C, triglycerides, systolic BP, diastolic BP, or HOMA-IR. In a subgroup of individuals with elevated LDL-C, blood pressure, or HOMA-IR, there was a greater reduction in LDL-C, resolution of hypertension, and reduction in HOMA-IR in those treated with Gelesis100. Safety and Side Effects Side effects due to Gelesis100 are commonly gastrointestinal, including abdominal distension, infrequent bowel movements, or dyspepsia. There were no significant differences between groups with regards to serum vitamin levels. Gelesis100 is contraindicated in pregnancy or individuals with allergies to cellulose, citric acid, sodium stearyl fumarate, gelatin, or titanium oxide ( 45 ). It should be avoided in patients with esophageal anatomic anomalies, suspected strictures, or post-operative complications that affect gastrointestinal transit and motility. The manufacturer recommends caution in patients with active gastrointestinal reflux diseases. The impact of Gelesis100 on the absorption of other medications was investigated only with metformin. Concurrent administration of Gelesis100 with metformin in the fasting state reduced the median area-under-the-curve (AUC) for metformin but had no effect on metformin AUC when administered during a meal. It is recommended that Gelesis100 be considered “food” when counseling patients on administration of other medications that require ingestion “on an empty stomach” vs. “with food.” NON-FDA APPROVED (OFF-LABEL) MEDICATIONS THAT CAUSE WEIGHT LOSS Several medications prescribed for conditions other than obesity have been found to be effective weight loss drugs in patients with obesity. If used for weight loss, the prescribed use of these medications would be off-label. Bupropion Bupropion (trade name Wellbutrin or Zyban) is used for depression and smoking cessation and can cause weight loss as a side effect. While the mean weight loss seen with bupropion is small, it is a preferred alternative to most antidepressants, which commonly cause weight gain. A 48-week randomized placebo-controlled trial randomized individuals with obesity to placebo, 300 mg, or 400 mg of bupropion sustained release (SR). Percentage losses of initial body weight for subjects completing 24 weeks were 5.0%, 7.2%, and 10.1% for placebo, bupropion SR 300, and 400 mg/d, respectively ( 113 ). In subjects with obesity and depressive symptoms, bupropion SR was more effective than placebo in achieving weight-loss when combined with a 500 kcal deficit diet (4.6% vs.1.8% loss of baseline body weight, P<0.001) ( 114 ). Bupropion is contraindicated in patients with seizures, current or prior diagnosis of bulimia or anorexia nervosa, and concurrent use with
