Pharmacologic Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, pubmed, weight loss, placebo, semaglutide, patients, trial, diabetes, treatment, adults, free, pmc free, pmc


≥40% from baseline, or death from renal causes) or death from cardiovascular causes. After a median of 2.0 years, the primary outcome occurred in 13.1% vs 16.9% in the empagliflozin and placebo groups, respectively, representing a 28% relative risk reduction. Data for bexagliflozin is comparatively scarce to other members of its class. In a phase 3 RCT of adults with T2D and stage 3a/3b CKD, bexagliflozin resulted in A1c reduction of 0.59-0.65% vs 0.16-0.34% with placebo, depending on eGFR ( 148 ). Due to the mechanism of action, all SGLT2 inhibitors may cause urinary tract infections, genital mycotic infections, and dehydration. They are contraindicated in end-stage renal disease and dialysis ( 149 - 152 ). Topiramate Topiramate (trade name Topamax) is an antiepileptic agent that has been found to reduce body weight in patients with a variety of disorders including epilepsy, bipolar disorder, and binge eating disorder ( 153 ). Randomized controlled trials have shown that topiramate is both tolerable and effective in promoting weight loss ( 61 ). In addition to use for epilepsy, topiramate has received FDA approval for the prevention of migraine headaches. Topiramate can cause paresthesias and cognitive side effects, such as word-finding difficulty and memory loss. Caution should be taken if used in patients predisposed to renal stones, acute angle glaucoma, or metabolic acidosis ( 154 ). Zonisamide Zonisamide (trade name Zonegran) is another antiepileptic medication that has also been found to reduce body weight in patients. Short (16 weeks) and longer (one year) randomized-controlled studies in patients with obesity have shown that 400 mg of zonisamide daily is effective in promoting modest weight loss (~5 kg placebo-subtracted weight) ( 155 , 156 ). The most commonly reported side effects compared to placebo were gastrointestinal (nausea/vomiting), nervous system (headaches), and cognitive (anxiety, impaired memory, language problems) ( 156 ). Zonisamide should not be given to patients hypersensitive to sulfonamides ( 157 ). Metreleptin Metreleptin (trade name Myalept) is a leptin analog approved to treat the complications of leptin deficiency in individuals with congenital or acquired generalized lipodystrophy ( 158 ). It has been used off-label for the treatment of obesity and other endocrine complications in people with congenital leptin deficiency and hypothalamic amenorrhea ( 159 ). Metreleptin is administered as a once daily subcutaneous injection with dosages ranging from 0.06 mg/kg/d to 10 mg/d, depending on body weight and sex. Additional precautions should be implemented
