Pharmacologic Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, pubmed, weight loss, placebo, semaglutide, patients, trial, diabetes, treatment, adults, free, pmc free, pmc


). Metreleptin is administered as a once daily subcutaneous injection with dosages ranging from 0.06 mg/kg/d to 10 mg/d, depending on body weight and sex. Additional precautions should be implemented if it is being considered for individuals with T-cell lymphoma or autoimmune disorders. During therapy, patients should be tested for neutralizing anti-metreleptin antibodies if they develop severe infections or loss of efficacy. Common side effects include headache, hypoglycemia, decreased weight, and abdominal pain. MEDICATION-INDUCED OBESITY The role of medications as a factor that can induce weight gain is often overlooked. Several commonly prescribed medications as well as over-the-counter medications are associated with significant weight gain. This includes medications used to treat T2D, hypertension, depression, schizophrenia, and insomnia ( 160 - 162 ). When evaluating a patient with obesity for the first time, the clinician should perform a thorough review of all current prescription and over-the-counter medications to investigate for potential weight-gaining medications. Whenever possible, the clinician should consider alternatives to medications known to cause weight gain ( 163 ), or should consider measures that would ameliorate the weight-gaining effect of the prescribed drug. FUTURE DIRECTIONS FOR WEIGHT-LOSS MEDICATIONS Medical providers, policy makers, and pharmaceutical industries have increasingly recognized the need for safe and effective pharmacotherapy for patients with overweight or obesity. With the advent of highly effective nutrient-stimulated hormone therapies (NuSH) (e.g., semaglutide, tirzepatide) achieving weight loss thresholds of ≥15% necessary to resolve comorbid diseases, a new generation of AOMs have arrived to significantly shift the trajectory of the obesity epidemic. Several AOMs are currently in various stages of development and are increasingly focused on multi-target strategies. Retatrutide is a triple agonist at GLP-1, GIP, and glucagon receptors that has been shown to have a 100% response rate for clinically significant weight loss and an average weight loss of 24% in a phase 2 trial ( 164 ). Semaglutide 2.4 mg in combination with cagrilintide, an amylin analog, has been shown to cause 15% weight loss in a phase 2 trial ( 165 ). Interest is also burgeoning into increasing scalability and accessibility. Small molecule oral AOMs are potential solutions. Orforglipron is a small molecule GLP-1RA that has also demonstrated about 15% weight loss in a phase 2 trial ( 166 ). Innovators are also exploring peripheral targets outside of NuSH mechanisms that do not rely on anorexigenic effects to mediate weight loss. Bimagrumab is a first-in-class novel AOM that
