Pharmacologic Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, loss, pubmed, weight loss, placebo, semaglutide, patients, trial, diabetes, treatment, adults, free, pmc free, pmc


166 ). Innovators are also exploring peripheral targets outside of NuSH mechanisms that do not rely on anorexigenic effects to mediate weight loss. Bimagrumab is a first-in-class novel AOM that is a monoclonal antibody against activin type 2 receptors on skeletal myoblasts; its phase 2 trial focused on the unique endpoint of fat mass loss rather than total body weight loss ( 167 ). With the advent of highly effective AOMs and newer agents targeted specifically at fat mass loss, pharmacotherapy is likely to become more acceptable by society and the medical community to treat obesity as a disease. IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE The plethora of on- and off-label AOMs creates the unique challenge for physicians to decide which medication may be most appropriate for the individual patient. Akin to management of other chronic diseases, selection of an AOM should be based on safety and tolerability, comorbidities, and accessibility. The following principles could serve as a guide the physician in choice of AOM: Safety and tolerability: Avoid medications for which the patient has contraindications or is at risk of intolerability due to the medications side effect profile. A patient with HTN and lower extremity edema may be better treated with a diuretic rather than amlodipine, which may have the side effect of leg swelling. Analogously, in a patient with obesity and HTN or anxiety, sympathomimetics like phentermine and bupropion/naltrexone should be avoided or used with caution due to potential side effects of these AOMs. Comorbidities: Target treatment to multiple comorbidities when possible, taking advantage of medications that have dual indications. A patient with HTN and T2D complicated by microalbuminuria would be recommended for an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEi) or aldosterone receptor blocker (ARB) instead of a calcium channel blocker because of the dual benefits of ACEi’s or ARBs. Analogously, in obesity and T2D, semaglutide or tirzepatide would be preferred due to their dual indications and additional cardiovascular benefit in those with preexisting cardiovascular disease. Selection of an AOM may also depend on the degree of weight loss desired and associated health goal. For example, resolution of OSA is likely to require ≥15% weight loss, which is more likely to be achieved with semaglutide or tirzepatide; whereas a patient with prediabetes seeking diabetes prevention can be effectively protected with just 5% weight loss, achievable with most on- and off-label AOMs. Combinations of AOMs: Combining medications with complementary mechanisms of action is
