ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Management of Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes:
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cardiovascular, disease, type, type diabetes, heart, risk, atherosclerotic, failure, kidney, cardiovascular disease, heart failure, kidney disease, inhibitor, chronic


The Risk Of Cardiovascular Events Is High With Diabetes Patients with diabetes have a higher risk of developing cardiovascular diseases, such as atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and heart failure, compared with patients who do not have diabetes. In addition, patients with diabetes may develop severe damage to other organs such as the kidneys (chronic kidney disease) and this also increases the risk of cardiovascular events. In patients with diabetes, detecting heart and kidney diseases is of critical importance to ensure that the most appropriate treatments and support are given to improve prognosis. Diagnosis Of Cardiovascular Diseases And Diabetes Based on the ESC Guidelines, all patients with diabetes should be checked for the symptoms or signs of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, for heart failure and for chronic kidney disease. Similarly, all patients with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease should have a test to see if they have diabetes. If you do not know already, you should ask your doctor or healthcare provider to assess your cardiovascular risk: If you have diabetes, you should know if you have atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease or heart failure • Your healthcare provider can check for symptoms or signs of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and heart failure If you have diabetes, you should know if you have chronic kidney disease • Your healthcare provider can check if your kidneys are working properly (measured by estimated glomerular filtration rate) and if there is any damage (measured by urine albumin/creatine ratio) If you have atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, you should know if you have diabetes • Your healthcare provider can check for diabetes e.g. using a blood test for fasting plasma glucose and HbA1c If you have type 2 diabetes and no atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease or kidney disease, you should know if you are at high risk of these diseases in the future • Your healthcare provider can check your 10-year cardiovascular risk using a scoring system called SCORE2-Diabetes. You may be given treatments to reduce levels of glucose and/or cholesterol depending on your estimated risk. I have diabetes, I have diabetes, have I got have I got heart atherosclerotic CVD? failure? I have diabetes, I have diabetes, I have atherosclerotic I have heart failure, have I got chronic what is my 10-year CVD, have I got have I got diabetes? kidney disease? cardiovascular risk? diabetes? Medications To Lower Cardiovascular Risk The ESC Guidelines recommend certain heart-protective medications based on whether you have diabetes, atherosclerotic
