ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Management of Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes:
KEYWORDS: diabetes, cardiovascular, disease, type, type diabetes, heart, risk, atherosclerotic, failure, kidney, cardiovascular disease, heart failure, kidney disease, inhibitor, chronic


I got have I got diabetes? kidney disease? cardiovascular risk? diabetes? Medications To Lower Cardiovascular Risk The ESC Guidelines recommend certain heart-protective medications based on whether you have diabetes, atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, heart failure and/or chronic kidney disease. These medications are added to your existing treatments, regardless of your glucose control or glucose- lowering therapies given for diabetes. If you have type 2 diabetes and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, it is recommended that you receive both a GLP-1 RA and an SGLT2 inhibitor with proven cardiovascular benefit to reduce cardiovascular risk If you have type 2 diabetes and heart failure, it is recommended that you receive an SGLT2 inhibitor with proven cardiovascular benefit to reduce hospital stays due to worsening heart failure • You should receive an SGLT2 inhibitor regardless of the type of heart failure that you have If you have type 2 diabetes and chronic kidney disease, it is recommended that you receive an SGLT2 inhibitor to reduce the cardiovascular and kidney failure risk • To further reduce the risk, finerenone is also recommended if you have chronic kidney disease I have diabetes, have I got I have diabetes, have I atherosclerotic CVD? got heart failure? I have diabetes, have I got I have atherosclerotic CVD, I have heart failure, have I chronic kidney disease? have I got diabetes? got diabetes? Yes Yes Yes Type 2 diabetes and Type 2 diabetes and Type 2 diabetes and atherosclerotic CVD = chronic kidney disease heart failure = GLP-1 RA and an = SGLT2 inhibitor plus SGLT2 inhibitor SGLT2 inhibitor finerenone GLP-1 RA = glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist SGLT2 inhibitor = sodium–glucose co-transporter-2 inhibitor These treatments are added to your existing medication and are not related to glucose control. SGLT2 inhibitors, GLP-1 RAs and finerenone are not approved for patients with type 1 diabetes. The guidelines mention that this is an important knowledge gap since patients with type 1 diabetes need to know if these medications can help them too. Central Illustration Cardiovascular disease Type 2 diabetes mellitus Presentation Pancreas The disease the Heart Artery patient has already Type 2 diabetes Cardiovascular disease Chronic kidney disease Evaluation Confirmed Confirmed Confirmed The diseases the doctor checks for Cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes Type 2 diabetes Diagnosis Type 2 diabetes and Type 2 diabetes and and atherosclerotic The confirmed heart failure chronic kidney disease cardiovascular disease diseases SGLT2 SGLT2 GLP-1 RA SGLT2 inhibitor
