WHO guidelines for
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, transmission, sexual, evidence, sexual transmission, infection, transmission zika, women, virus infection, ongoing, areas, recommendations, guidelines


cosponsored programme executed by the World Contributors to WHO guidelines for the prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus Guideline Development Group (GDG) Chairperson: Gabriela Paz Bailey. Members: Emma Aarons, Laith Abu-Raddad, Guilherme Calvet, Bidia Deperthes, Ousmane Faye, Hernando Gaitan Duarte, Susan Hills, Tippawan Liabsuetrakul, Otilia Mardh, Bill Potter, Nancy Santesso, Leo Yee Sin. External Review Group (ERG): Thomas Jaenisch, Francis Ndowa, Cristina Pimenta. WHO Secretariat: Nathalie Broutet, Sami Gottlieb, Edna Kara, James Kiarie, Caron Kim, Melanie Taylor, Anna Thorson, Teodora Wi, Eve Lackritz, Ornella Lincetto, Robyn Meurant, Stephanne Huguenot, Bernadette Murgue, Maeve de Mello, Rodolfo Gomez Ponce de Leon, Luis Castellanos. Evidence Team: Nicola Low, Michel Counotte, Kaspar Meili. vi WHO guidelines for the prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus Acronyms and abbreviations CI confidence interval CrI credible interval DOI Declaration of Interests EU/EEA European Union and European Economic Area GBS Guillain-Barré syndrome GDG Guideline Development Group GRADE Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation GRC Guidelines Review Committee HIV human immunodeficiency virus IQR interquartile range PAHO Pan American Health Organization PHEIC public health emergency of international concern PICO Population, Intervention, Comparator, Outcome RNA ribonucleic acid RHL Reproductive Health Library RT-PCR reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction STI sexually transmitted infection USA United States of America WHO World Health Organization vii Executive Summary Executive Summary However, Zika virus genetic material in semen has cleared Introduction within 50 days in most cases; it is not known whether genetic material detected for longer durations represents Zika virus is an arthropod-borne flavivirus, which is infectious virus. transmitted primarily by mosquitoes of the Aedes genus, but can also be transmitted through sexual intercourse. In Recommendations for the prevention of sexual transmission that Zika virus infection during pregnancy is a cause of mosquito-borne transmission of Zika virus in geographic congenital abnormalities, including microcephaly. The areas. In areas with ongoing transmission, people are proportion of affected neonates born to mothers infected much more likely to become infected by Zika virus through with Zika virus during pregnancy has not been established bites from infected mosquitoes, and the contribution of with certainty. Published estimates range from 6% of condom use to overall prevention of infection will be low. infants born to women with and without symptoms of In areas with no autochthonous mosquito-borne Zika virus possible Zika virus infection in the United States of America transmission, sexual transmission from returning travellers (USA) to 42% of infants born
