WHO guidelines for
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, transmission, sexual, evidence, sexual transmission, infection, transmission zika, women, virus infection, ongoing, areas, recommendations, guidelines


In areas with no autochthonous mosquito-borne Zika virus possible Zika virus infection in the United States of America transmission, sexual transmission from returning travellers (USA) to 42% of infants born to women with symptoms is one of the main routes of transmission. Travellers of skin rash in pregnancy in Brazil. WHO also concluded returning from areas with ongoing Zika virus transmission that Zika virus can trigger Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS), can therefore substantially reduce the risk of subsequent an immune-mediated neurological condition. A multi- infections through the correct and consistent use of country assessment estimated that two of 10 000 Zika condoms. Areas with ongoing transmission are defined virus infections result in GBS (95% credible interval (CrI): as regions with active circulation of mosquito-borne Zika 0.5–4.5/10.000). Prevention of the sexual transmission virus. These are areas where disease surveillance detects of Zika virus can therefore prevent acute infection and circulation of Zika virus, in accordance with periodic neurological complications in a sexual partner, and epidemiological updates from WHO. In the absence of prevention of transmission to a pregnant woman would adequate disease surveillance, the definition of areas of prevent congenital Zika virus infection. ongoing transmission depends on the availability of local risk assessments. Adoption of the precautionary principle As of February 2018, 86 countries and territories have had could result in designation of areas with known previous evidence of Zika virus transmission and, as of January transmission as areas with ongoing transmission. Areas 2018, over 500 000 suspected cases had been reported without ongoing transmission have no active circulation or in Latin America and the Caribbean. In the USA, as of 15 suspected active circulation of Zika virus. April 2018, 52 of 5672 reported cases of Zika virus disease were presumed to have been acquired through sexual Rationale for the guidelines transmission. In the European Union (EU) and European Economic Area (EEA), as of 13 March 2017, 20 of 1737 cases with a known route of transmission were acquired through WHO published interim guidelines on the prevention of sexual transmission. sexual transmission of Zika virus in September 2016, based on a limited amount of evidence under an emergency Sexual transmission of Zika virus is much more likely process during a public health emergency of international from men to women than from women to men; and concern (PHEIC). The body of evidence has grown same sex transmission, from man to man, has only
