WHO guidelines for
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, transmission, sexual, evidence, sexual transmission, infection, transmission zika, women, virus infection, ongoing, areas, recommendations, guidelines


emergency of international from men to women than from women to men; and concern (PHEIC). The body of evidence has grown same sex transmission, from man to man, has only been considerably since then, and WHO experts concluded, at documented once. Where documented, the longest time a meeting in March 2017, that the guidelines should be period between the onset of symptoms in one sexual redeveloped under the formal WHO guideline process. partner and the onset of symptoms in the other is 44 days, with half of the sexual partners developing symptoms by These guidelines contain updated recommendations on 12 days. The longest time period that infectious Zika virus the prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus, based has been detected by viral culture in semen is 69 days. on the best available evidence as of June 2018. viii WHO guidelines for the prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus • to provide recommendations about the prevention Rationale for the update of of sexual transmission of Zika virus, rather than about interim guidelines the prevention of specific complications or about the prevention of mosquito-borne transmission; At the time of the interim guidance issuance, very few data on sexual transmission of Zika virus were available • to update the interim guidelines in accordance with the and recommendations were developed under emergency formal WHO guidelines development process; response procedures. In March 2017, WHO convened an expert meeting to review the evidence and identify the • to offer safe and effective options for the prevention of research gaps surrounding sexual transmission of Zika sexual transmission of Zika virus; and virus. At this meeting, participants discussed a conceptual framework. The sexual transmission framework describes • to provide evidence summaries about the risks of sexual key events in sexual transmission of Zika virus between transmission of Zika virus and the effectiveness of humans, based on variables and time periods that apply to condoms for the prevention of sexual transmission of all infectious diseases. Zika virus. What is new in this guideline? Target audience • For the new recommended duration for correct and These guidelines aim to inform national and subnational consistent use of condoms or abstinence to prevent policy makers, healthcare providers, other healthcare sexual transmission of Zika virus, a distinction is made stakeholders and the general public. between men and women, and the recommended duration has been reduced from six to three months for
