WHO guidelines for
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, transmission, sexual, evidence, sexual transmission, infection, transmission zika, women, virus infection, ongoing, areas, recommendations, guidelines


transmission of Zika virus, a distinction is made stakeholders and the general public. between men and women, and the recommended duration has been reduced from six to three months for Methods men, two months for women. • The risk groups women or couples planning to These guidelines were developed as outlined in the conceive or having sex that could result in conception WHO handbook for guideline development. Members and pregnant women, are more explicitly targeted in of the Guideline Development Group (GDG), which these new recommendations. includes experts in sexually transmitted infections, virology, epidemiology, gynaecology, condoms and • For this guideline, systematic reviews were conducted to sexual behaviour, developed key questions to guide the assess available evidence on the sexual transmission of guideline development process. All members declared Zika virus and all evidence on effectiveness of condom conflict of interests according to WHO procedure. For of Bern conducted systematic reviews, synthesized the retrieved evidence, and assessed its certainty using the Goal and Objectives Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) framework. The GDG, based on The overall goal of these guidelines is to provide an evidence-to-decision (EtD) framework, developed guidance and evidence-based recommendations about and finalized the recommendations and justifications the prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus. The during a web conference in May 2018 and through virus are not fully known and the prevention measures these guidelines were published. Recommendations may differ. Nevertheless, it is essential for individuals to were formulated as “strong” or “conditional” using have information about the risks of sexual intercourse the evidence to decision framework. The strength of as a mode of transmission in itself. These guidelines are individual recommendations is annotated in after the informed by an update of the evidence underpinning recommendation in parentheses. The quality of the body the interim guidance and follow the requirements of the of evidence was assessed Grading of Recommendations formal WHO guideline development process. The specific Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE). After objectives are: external review, these guidelines were published. ix Executive Summary 1.2 Recommendations for women or couples planning to Recommendations conceive or having sex that could result in conception 1. Recommendations for individuals living a) Women who have had sex that could result in virus: to concerns about Zika virus infection, should have ready access to emergency contraceptive services and 1.1 Recommendations for all sexually active women counselling (Best practice). and men b)
