WHO guidelines for
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, transmission, sexual, evidence, sexual transmission, infection, transmission zika, women, virus infection, ongoing, areas, recommendations, guidelines


about the correct and consistent use of sexual partners condoms or abstinence during that time period to prevent Zika virus infection through sexual transmission a) Pregnant women and their sexual partners should use (Conditional recommendation, very low certainty condoms correctly and consistently, or abstain from sex of evidence). for the whole duration of the pregnancy, to prevent Zika virus infection through sexual transmission and possible adverse outcomes of Zika virus infection during pregnancy (Strong recommendation, very low certainty of evidence). 1 Further guidance on Zika virus infection and pregnancy can be found in the WHO interim guidelines Pregnancy management in the context of Zika virus infection (available online at 2 After known or presumptive infection: After onset of symptoms compatible with Zika virus infection or, if asymptomatic, a positive test result for Zika virus. Most Zika virus infections are asymptomatic. Sexual transmission from a partner with asymptomatic Zika virus infection has been reported. Whether a person is infected or not may be hard to establish, given the low diagnostic accuracy of some available tests and the absence of resources for testing in some areas. Further guidance on the diagnosis of Zika virus infection can be found in the WHO interim guidance Laboratory testing for Zika virus infection (available online at 3 Local or projected transmission rates: In areas with high levels of current ongoing Zika virus transmission, delaying conception until the transmission rate decreases can reduce the risk of Zika virus infection during pregnancy. x WHO guidelines for the prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus 2. Recommendations for individuals exposure4 (Strong recommendation, very low certainty living in areas without ongoing of evidence). transmission of Zika virus travelling to or from areas with ongoing Zika virus b) Male sexual partners returning from areas with ongoing transmission Zika virus transmission should use condoms correctly and consistently, or abstain from sex for at least 2.1 Recommendations for all sexually active women 3 months after the last possible exposure,4 to prevent and men returning from areas with ongoing Zika virus Zika virus infection through sexual transmission and transmission reduce the risk of conception (Strong recommendation, low certainty of evidence). a) All women and men travelling to or returning from areas with ongoing Zika virus transmission and 2.3 Recommendations for pregnant women1 and their their sexual partners, particularly pregnant women,1 sexual partners travelling to or returning from areas should receive information about the risks
