WHO guidelines for
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, transmission, sexual, evidence, sexual transmission, infection, transmission zika, women, virus infection, ongoing, areas, recommendations, guidelines


virus transmission and 2.3 Recommendations for pregnant women1 and their their sexual partners, particularly pregnant women,1 sexual partners travelling to or returning from areas should receive information about the risks of sexual with ongoing Zika virus transmission transmission of Zika virus (Strong recommendation, very low certainty of evidence). a) Pregnant women and their sexual partners should use condoms correctly and consistently or abstain from sex b) All women and men travelling to or returning from for the whole duration of the pregnancy if the sexual areas with ongoing transmission of Zika virus should partner is returning from areas with ongoing Zika virus be offered a full range of contraceptives, and be transmission. This recommendation aims to prevent counselled to be able to make an informed choice Zika virus infection through sexual transmission and about whether and when to prevent pregnancy, in possible adverse pregnancy and fetal outcomes (Strong order to avoid possible adverse outcomes of Zika virus recommendation, very low certainty of evidence). infection during pregnancy (Strong recommendation, very low certainty of evidence). b) Pregnant women should consider delaying nonessential travel to areas with ongoing Zika virus c) Men returning from areas with ongoing Zika virus transmission (Conditional recommendation, very transmission and their sexual partners should use low certainty). condoms correctly and consistently, or abstain from sex for at least 3 months after the last possible 3. Recommendations about safer sex exposure,4 to prevent Zika virus infection through sexual transmission (Strong recommendation, low certainty WHO always recommends the use of safer sexual practices. of evidence). Safer sex is a behavioural concept that promotes the reduction of sexual risk-taking behaviour. It emphasizes d) Women returning from areas with ongoing Zika measures to reduce the risk of contracting or spreading virus transmission and their sexual partners should sexually transmitted infections (STIs), including postponing use condoms correctly and consistently, or abstain sexual debut, nonpenetrative sex, correct and consistent from sex for at least 2 months after the last possible use of male or female condoms, and reducing the number exposure,4 to prevent Zika virus infection through of sexual partners. sexual transmission (Strong recommendation, very low certainty of evidence). Men and women should receive counselling and be informed about safer sex. Health authorities should 2.2 Recommendations for women or couples planning ensure affordable and equitable access to condoms and to conceive, or having sex that could result in other contraception methods, especially in the
