WHO guidelines for
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, transmission, sexual, evidence, sexual transmission, infection, transmission zika, women, virus infection, ongoing, areas, recommendations, guidelines


2.2 Recommendations for women or couples planning ensure affordable and equitable access to condoms and to conceive, or having sex that could result in other contraception methods, especially in the context conception, and returning from areas with ongoing of Zika virus transmission and other STIs. The correct Zika virus transmission and consistent use of condoms reduces the risk of an unintended pregnancy as well as STIs, including the human a) Women returning from areas with ongoing Zika virus immunodeficiency virus (HIV). transmission should avoid sex that could result in conception for at least 2 months after the last possible 4 After the last possible exposure: After the last day of stay in an area with ongoing Zika virus transmission or the last day of sexual contact with a possibly Zika virus-infected person. Introduction 1. Introduction (4). The real number of people with Zika virus infection is 1.1 Background probably much higher because of the high proportion of asymptomatic cases (5). In the United States of America Zika virus was first discovered in Uganda when isolated (USA), as of 15 April 2018, 52 of 5672 reported cases of Zika from a rhesus monkey in 1947. Zika virus is a species of virus disease were acquired through sexual transmission the genus Flavivirus, which also includes dengue virus. (6). In the European Union (EU) and European Economic The 2015–2016 epidemic of Zika virus infection in South Area (EEA), as of 13 March 2017, 20 of 1737 cases with America drew international attention to Zika virus, when a known route of transmission were acquired through an association with babies born with microcephaly was sexual transmission (7). The primary transmission route suspected. The World Health Organization (WHO) declared of Zika virus is via mosquitoes of the Aedes genus. Sexual a public health emergency of international concern transmission of Zika virus was also accepted as a route of (PHEIC) in response to the then unexplained clusters transmission that is more common than assumed before of microcephaly and Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS). the outbreak in the Americas (Fig. 1) (8). Organization (PAHO) and partners developed the Zika WHO concluded in 2016 that there was a causal link strategic response plan (1), which emphasized the role of between Zika virus infection and adverse pregnancy research. In this context, the WHO Zika Virus Research and congenital outcomes, including microcephaly, as Agenda (2) was developed, a key component of which well
