WHO guidelines for
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, transmission, sexual, evidence, sexual transmission, infection, transmission zika, women, virus infection, ongoing, areas, recommendations, guidelines


virus infection and adverse pregnancy research. In this context, the WHO Zika Virus Research and congenital outcomes, including microcephaly, as Agenda (2) was developed, a key component of which well as with GBS, an immune-mediated condition of was to characterize the virus and its potential effects. The the peripheral nerves (11). Zika virus infection during last published WHO Zika Virus Classification Table from pregnancy can result in adverse congenital outcomes. February 2018 (3) shows that 86 countries and territories The proportion of affected infants born to mothers with have shown evidence of Zika virus transmission. In Latin Zika virus infection in pregnancy has not been established America and the Caribbean, as of January 2018, over with certainty. A range of birth defects reported to be 220 000 locally transmitted cases of confirmed Zika virus associated with Zika virus were found in 6% (26/442) of infection and 583 000 suspected cases have been reported infants in a study that included women with and without Fig. 1. Countries from which presumed sexual transmission of Zika virus has been reported Countries Argentina Canada Chilie France Germany Italy Netherlands New Zealand Peru Portugal Spain United Kingdom United States Source: reports up to December 2016 from Moreira et al. 2017 (9); reports up to September 2018 from Counotte et al. (10) WHO guidelines for the prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus symptoms of possible Zika virus infection in the USA, and The sexual transmission framework provided a systematic in 42% (49/117) of infants born to women with symptoms approach to synthesise the evidence. Discussion about of skin rash in pregnancy in Brazil (12, 13). In rare cases the sexual transmission framework helped to ascertain Zika virus infection can result in GBS. Two out of 10 000 the time periods for which estimates are needed to make infected cases resulted in GBS (95% credible interval recommendations about the duration of protection, and (CrI): 0.5–4.5) (14). WHO published an interim guidance to identify research gaps. The meeting participants agreed document on the prevention of sexual transmission of that the evidence should be updated to include studies Zika virus in September 2016, during the PHEIC (15). The published since August 2016 and the end of the PHEIC limited evidence available up to August 2016 consisted in November 2016. Most of the proposed members of mainly of case reports from 13 countries in which Zika the Guideline Development
