WHO guidelines for
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, transmission, sexual, evidence, sexual transmission, infection, transmission zika, women, virus infection, ongoing, areas, recommendations, guidelines


limited evidence available up to August 2016 consisted in November 2016. Most of the proposed members of mainly of case reports from 13 countries in which Zika the Guideline Development Group (GDG) took part in the virus infection was diagnosed in a person living in an area expert meeting. without ongoing Zika virus transmission, but whose sexual partner had returned from an area with ongoing Zika virus This update of the guidance follows the formal WHO transmission. These studies reported evidence of sexual guidelines development process (27). transmission from symptomatic and asymptomatic men to their female partners, a woman to her male partner, a 1.3 Timeline man to his male partner, and of longer detection of Zika virus in semen than in viral culture. Currently, male to female sexual transmission of Zika virus via vaginal sex is Table 1. Timeline of guideline most commonly reported (16–20), but female to male development transmission via vaginal sex (21), anal transmission (22), and possibly oral transmission (23, 24) have also been reported. Step Timeframe The guidance recommended safer sex practices for six months for women and men returning from areas with Scoping, development of February–March draft Population, Intervention, 2017 ongoing Zika virus transmission. Comparator, Outcome statements (PlCOs) 1.2 Rationale for the update Formation of guideline group, March 2017 of interim guidelines preliminary meeting, finalization of PICO questions At the time of the interim guidance issuance, very few data on sexual transmission of Zika virus were available, Evidence retrieval, synthesis and April 2017– and recommendations were developed under emergency appraisal March 2018 response procedures. In March 2017, WHO convened an expert meeting to review the evidence and identify the Preparation of documents for the April 2018 research gaps surrounding sexual transmission of Zika virus GDG meeting (25). At this meeting, participants discussed a conceptual Meeting of the GDG to finalize 25 May 2018 framework. The sexual transmission framework describes recommendations key events in sexual transmission of Zika virus between humans, based on variables and time periods that apply to Document revised, reviewed 31 October 2018 all infectious diseases (Fig. 2) (26). and submitted to Guidelines Review Committee (GRC) for final Infection of Zika virus through sexual contact is followed clearances by an incubation period before symptoms, if any, develop. An infected person can transmit Zika virus to others for a certain duration of infectiousness, which might start before the onset of symptoms, if any.
