WHO guidelines for
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, transmission, sexual, evidence, sexual transmission, infection, transmission zika, women, virus infection, ongoing, areas, recommendations, guidelines


before symptoms, if any, develop. An infected person can transmit Zika virus to others for a certain duration of infectiousness, which might start before the onset of symptoms, if any. For those who develop symptoms, the serial interval is the period between the onset of symptoms in one individual and the onset of symptoms in their sexual partner. After the infection clears, individuals can become immune. Introduction Fig. 2. A schematic representation of the sexual transmission of Zika virus and 7 key elements A Duration of infection Duration of infectiousness 4 I Incubation period Symptoms* Immunity? Time Susceptibility SI Incubation period Symptoms* Immunity? Serial interval: onset of symptoms of primary case – onset of symptoms secondary case B Probability of Duration of I SI Contact rate x transmission per x infectiousness act SI SI SI Reproduction number / Serial interval 3 7 Transmission rate The numbered circles show the seven key elements. Dark blue circles are elements for which evidence is based on empirical research. Light blue circles denote elements derived from mathematical modelling studies and in vivo studies. (A) Transmission between two individuals. The horizontal arrows show the time course of the disease for the primary infected individual (I), who is infected, and the secondary individual (S), who starts as susceptible (element 1). The vertical red arrow represents a Zika virus transmission event. *Zika virus infection results mostly in asymptomatic disease. (B) Relation between different elements at population level. Parameters describing transmission at a population level are the reproduction number, the result of the contact rate, the probability of transmission per act, and the duration of infectiousness. The transmission rate can be estimated using the reproduction number and the serial interval. Source: adapted from Counotte et al. (10) [adapted with permission from WHO (26)]. 1.4 Goals and objectives of transmission in itself. These guidelines are informed by an update of the evidence underpinning the interim The overall goal of these guidelines is to provide guidance, and follow the requirements of the formal WHO guidance and evidence-based recommendations about guideline development process. the prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus. The absolute risks of different clinical complications of Zika The specific objectives are: virus are not fully known and the prevention measures may differ. Nevertheless, it is essential for individuals to have • to provide recommendations about the prevention information about the risks of sexual intercourse as a mode of
