WHO guidelines for
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, transmission, sexual, evidence, sexual transmission, infection, transmission zika, women, virus infection, ongoing, areas, recommendations, guidelines


prevention measures may differ. Nevertheless, it is essential for individuals to have • to provide recommendations about the prevention information about the risks of sexual intercourse as a mode of sexual transmission of Zika virus, rather than about WHO guidelines for the prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus the prevention of specific complications or about the in pregnancy. The guidelines also recognize that the prevention of mosquito-borne transmission; prevention of mosquito-borne infection for pregnant women, and for women planning to conceive, is the most • to update the interim guidelines in accordance with the important measure for the prevention of Zika virus infection formal WHO guidelines development process; in areas with ongoing transmission of Zika virus (28). • to offer safe and effective options for the prevention of These guidelines apply to areas with ongoing and without sexual transmission of Zika virus; and ongoing transmission of Zika virus. For each category, they contain separate recommendations for: • to provide evidence summaries about the risks of sexual transmission of Zika virus and the effectiveness of • all sexually active women and men; condoms for the prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus. • women or couples planning to conceive or having sex that could result in conception; and 1.5 Target audience • pregnant women and their sexual partners. The target audience comprises: 1.7 Related WHO guidelines • national and subnational policy makers; The guidelines are related to the following guidance • implementers, and managers of national and documents: subnational reproductive health and STI programmes; Prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus, interim • nongovernmental and other organizations and guidance update (15): As documented above, this is the professional societies involved in the planning and interim guidance that was issued in the midst of the Zika management of services for those affected by Zika virus outbreak and that followed the guidelines process in virus infection; the emergency response setting. • healthcare providers; and Pregnancy management in the context of Zika virus infection, interim guidance update (28). This guidance • general public. was also issued as part of the emergency response to the Zika virus outbreak. It is relevant for all pregnant women residing in areas with ongoing Zika virus transmission, 1.6 Scope and structure of pregnant women exposed through travel to an area with the guidelines ongoing Zika virus transmission, or pregnant women who have had unprotected sexual contact with an
