WHO guidelines for
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, transmission, sexual, evidence, sexual transmission, infection, transmission zika, women, virus infection, ongoing, areas, recommendations, guidelines


Scope and structure of pregnant women exposed through travel to an area with the guidelines ongoing Zika virus transmission, or pregnant women who have had unprotected sexual contact with an infected These guidelines present evidence-based recommendations partner. The guidance provides recommendations for for the prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus. pregnancy care and management in the context of Zika Countries can use these guidelines as a base for the virus transmission and congenital Zika virus infection, development of locally adapted national guidelines. including recommendations on voluntary discontinuation National guidelines should be adapted to consider the of pregnancy and appropriate counselling. The importance current status and future potential for local ongoing Zika of preventing mosquito-borne infection for pregnant virus transmission, the attitude and perceptions of residents women and women planning to conceive or having sex available resources. with ongoing transmission of Zika virus, is mentioned in these guidelines. The guidelines provide recommendations about the prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus. The Laboratory testing for Zika virus infection, interim guidance guidelines recognize that contraception that prevents (29): This guidance was also published following the PHEIC. pregnancy is the most important measure to prevent It covers recommendations regarding the testing and potential adverse outcomes of Zika virus infection diagnosis of Zika virus infections. Methods 2. Methods The methods documented in the WHO handbook for questions (1) and (2) were used to inform key question (3). guideline development (27) were used to develop these Key question (3) determines the recommendations in these guidelines. See Annex B for a detailed description. guidelines for different populations at risk and different geographical areas. See Annex B1 and Annex B2 for details. 2.1 Guideline Development 2.3 Review of the evidence Group (GDG) The GDG consists of 13 members from different regions The evidence team from the University of Bern conducted affected by Zika virus, with expertise in sexually transmitted preplanned systematic reviews for key questions (1) and infections (STIs), research, laboratory research, virology, (2). A suitable range of data sources was searched for each epidemiology, gynaecology, condoms and sexual question from April 2017 to March 2018, including PubMed behaviour (Annex A), and came together in an in-person and Embase. Two reviewers independently screened meeting and web conference. The GDG was involved studies, performed data extraction and verification, and in defining the key questions, assessing the reviewed resolved discrepancies by consensus. The included evidence, developing the recommendations,
