WHO guidelines for
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, transmission, sexual, evidence, sexual transmission, infection, transmission zika, women, virus infection, ongoing, areas, recommendations, guidelines


conference. The GDG was involved studies, performed data extraction and verification, and in defining the key questions, assessing the reviewed resolved discrepancies by consensus. The included evidence, developing the recommendations, and approving evidence consists of cohort studies, case reports, case the final version of these guidelines. series, cohort studies, animal studies, mathematical modelling studies, laboratory studies and reviews. Included studies were synthesized narratively or using appropriate 2.2 Formulation of key statistical methods. The quality of the included studies questions was assessed systematically using published tools for each study type. The evidence team used the Grading This updated guidance takes into consideration the of Recommendations Assessment, Development and questions that guided the interim guidance on prevention Evaluation (GRADE) framework (30) to assess the overall of sexual transmission of Zika virus and advances in the certainty of the evidence for each key question. Table 2 evidence. Two main questions framed the evidence displays the four grades that were used to attribute the synthesis in the interim guidance: (1) Can Zika virus be certainty of the evidence. transmitted through sexual contact, and (2) How long does Zika virus persist in bodily fluids? Since then, there is See Annex C for a list of references of all included studies, now sufficient evidence that Zika virus can be transmitted Annex B for detailed descriptions of methods for each key through sexual intercourse. During the initial phase of the question, and Annex B3 for the GRADE evidence profiles. guideline development process, the GDG, the evidence team and the steering group collaborated to draft and Table 2. The four evidence certainty finalize key questions. The key questions are: grades (30) (1) What is known about the risks of sexual transmission of Zika virus? Level Name Description (2) Does consistent and correct condom use reduce High The estimate reflects the transmission of Zika virus? true effect well (3) When, and for how long, does one need to use a Moderate The estimate may differ from condom? the true effect The sexual transmission framework (Fig. 2) provided the Low The estimate is likely to differ from the true effect basis to structure the evidence for the key question (1). For key question (2), a Population, Intervention, Comparator, Very Low The estimate is unlikely to Outcome (PICO) was formulated. Because there were no reflect the true effect randomized or non-randomized trials, evidence from key WHO guidelines for the prevention of
