WHO guidelines for
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, transmission, sexual, evidence, sexual transmission, infection, transmission zika, women, virus infection, ongoing, areas, recommendations, guidelines


The estimate is unlikely to Outcome (PICO) was formulated. Because there were no reflect the true effect randomized or non-randomized trials, evidence from key WHO guidelines for the prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus differences and implications for different target audiences 2.4 From evidence to are outlined in Table 3. recommendations 2.5 Management of Members of the GDG, the Guideline Steering Group (GSG) and the Evidence Team met in May 2018 in a web conference. conflicts of interests After the presentation of the evidence, the GDG discussed the evidence and suggestions for recommendations guided by the According to the procedures described in the WHO Handbook evidence-to-decision (EtD) framework (31). For each subgroup for guideline development (27) and by the WHO Office of of affected people in areas with and without ongoing Zika virus Compliance, Risk Management and Ethics in the Guidelines transmission, the GDG considered the priority, benefits and for declaration of interests (DOI) (32), members of the GDG harms, evidence certainty, outcome importance, the balance provided declaration of interests statements at the time of between desirable and undesirable effects, resource use, invitation to participate in updating the guidelines. At the equity, acceptability and feasibility of the recommendation. beginning of the web conference, the GDG members were Under guidance of the chairperson and the Steering Group, again asked to disclose any conflicts of interest. the GDG discussed until consensus was reached. For the recommendation on the duration of condom use for travellers After review of the DOI, it was concluded that there were returning from areas with ongoing Zika virus transmission, no conflicts of interest (Annex A1). Therefore, there were each present member of the GDG gave an opinion statement, no exclusions of any member from participating fully in the followed by a discussion until consensus was reached. guideline development process. Each recommendation was formulated as either “strong” WHO invited the general public to review the experts and or “conditional”, as specified by the WHO handbook for stakeholders involved and provide feedback regarding any guideline development (27). This rating takes into account member deemed to have a significant conflict of interest the certainty of the balance between desirable and with respect to the terms of reference for this group (https:// undesirable consequences of recommendations. A very www.who.int/reproductivehealth/publications/dvlpt- high certainty of a positive balance warrants a “strong” guideline-prevention-sexual-transmission-zika-virus/en/). recommendation, whereas “conditional” recommendations Short biographies of individuals attending the Guideline are
