WHO guidelines for
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, transmission, sexual, evidence, sexual transmission, infection, transmission zika, women, virus infection, ongoing, areas, recommendations, guidelines


(https:// undesirable consequences of recommendations. A very www.who.int/reproductivehealth/publications/dvlpt- high certainty of a positive balance warrants a “strong” guideline-prevention-sexual-transmission-zika-virus/en/). recommendation, whereas “conditional” recommendations Short biographies of individuals attending the Guideline are based on lower certainty of a positive balance. The Development Group meeting were posted online for two strength of each recommendation is annotated in after the weeks for public notice. The short biographies were provided recommendation in parentheses and documented in the by the experts themselves. A generic email notification was evidence to decision framework (Annex B4). Details about provided and no response from the public has been received. Table 3. Implications of recommendations worded strongly or conditionally. Adapted from the WHO handbook for guideline development (27). Strong recommendation Conditional recommendation Audience (i.e. The man/woman should … ) (i.e. The man/woman should be informed … ) Patients Most individuals in this situation would want the Most individuals in this situation would want recommended course of action; only a small the suggested course of action, but many proportion would not. Formal decision aides are not would not. likely to be needed to help individuals make decisions consistent with their values and preferences. Clinicians Most individuals should receive the intervention. Different choices will be appropriate for individual Adherence to the recommendation could be used patients, who will require assistance in arriving as a quality criterion or performance indicator. at a management decision consistent with their values and preferences. Decision aides may be useful in helping individuals make decisions consistent with their values and preferences. Policy- The recommendation can be adopted as policy in Policy-making will require substantial debate makers most situations. and involvement of various stakeholders. Dissemination, updating and implementation of the guidelines 3. Dissemination, updating and implementation of the guidelines 3.1 Dissemination and 3.2 Assessment of guideline implementation usefulness, impact, and future updates The guideline will be produced as a PDF file and distributed online and in print. Translation into Spanish (in collaboration with PAHO), French and Portuguese are There will be an ongoing evaluation process over the first planned, and have been budgeted for. year of the guideline implementation, focusing on the accessibility, acceptance, use, impact, and generalizability The digital versions will be available via the WHO websites of the guidelines. As an assessment of document uptake, extranet.who.int/rhl). Print versions will be distributed to websites will be monitored, as well as the number of hard WHO regional and country offices,
