WHO guidelines for
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, transmission, sexual, evidence, sexual transmission, infection, transmission zika, women, virus infection, ongoing, areas, recommendations, guidelines


guidelines. As an assessment of document uptake, extranet.who.int/rhl). Print versions will be distributed to websites will be monitored, as well as the number of hard WHO regional and country offices, nongovernmental copies of the guidance requested and distributed through organization (NGO) partners, and professional associations. the document centre. The guidelines will be launched in several WHO areas After implementation, an evaluation of the impact of the through a dissemination meeting. WHO staff will look guidelines will be undertaken in the form of an online for opportunities during already planned country visits to survey. This will be conducted through WHO Regional discuss the implementation of the guidelines with country and Country offices and through selected respondents staff. Adaptation activities and implementation research of other user groups (e.g. professional societies, NGOs) may take place in select countries, based on need and in order to gauge utilization in-country and whether interest to move ahead with recommendations. any of the recommendations in the guidelines have been implemented or influenced policy decisions. This evaluation will also include as assessment of uptake and barriers to effective implementation which will be important feedback for future modifications. Evidence will be reviewed four years after the date of publication, and the need for updating of recommendations will be determined. This may be done earlier if evidence should significantly alter before then. WHO guidelines for the prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus 4. Recommendations for the prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus 4.1 Background 4.2 Summary of the evidence These guidelines apply to the prevention of the sexual This section contains a summary of the evidence included transmission of Zika virus through vaginal and anal sexual in the systematic reviews conducted to inform the intercourse. The terms “women” and “men” refer to the guidelines. The summary is structured according to the biological sex of persons, as defined by female or male key questions, because the single recommendations are reproductive organs, regardless of gender identity. grounded on the synthesized evidence for key questions (1) and (2). For detailed results and methods of the systematic “Women and men returning from areas with ongoing reviews conducted, see Annex B1 for key question (1) and Zika virus transmission”: Individuals travelling from areas Annex B2 for key question (2). Annex C contains a list of all with ongoing transmission to areas without ongoing studies included as evidence per key question. transmission of Zika
