WHO guidelines for
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, transmission, sexual, evidence, sexual transmission, infection, transmission zika, women, virus infection, ongoing, areas, recommendations, guidelines


Annex B2 for key question (2). Annex C contains a list of all with ongoing transmission to areas without ongoing studies included as evidence per key question. transmission of Zika virus. This also includes travellers that travel to areas other than the area from where they Key question (1): What is known about the originally started travelling, and travellers that previously risks of sexual transmission of Zika virus? resided in areas with ongoing Zika virus transmission; that is, travellers that are not “returning” in a strict sense. Serial interval Areas with ongoing Zika virus transmission: All subnational The evidence includes 24 observational studies of Zika areas, territories and countries with ongoing transmission virus infections diagnosed in the partners of travellers of Zika virus. Areas with ongoing Zika virus transmission returning from areas with ongoing Zika virus transmission are areas where disease surveillance detects circulation (16–24, 33–47). Amongst 23 cases of presumed sexual of Zika virus, in accordance with periodic epidemiological transmission, the evidence team documented a median updates from WHO. In the absence of adequate disease serial interval of 12 days (interquartile range (IQR): 10–14.5, surveillance, the definition of areas of ongoing transmission max. 44 days) between the onset of symptoms in the male depends on the availability of local risk assessments. traveller and the onset of symptoms in the female partner Adoption of the precautionary principle could result in (16–18, 20–23, 33, 35–37, 39, 45, 47) (Table 1, Annex B3). designation of areas with known previous transmission as areas with ongoing transmission. Presence of Zika virus in the male genital tract Areas without ongoing Zika virus transmission: All Not all men with symptomatic Zika virus infection, who subnational areas, territories and countries without ongoing have been studied, had detectable viral RNA in semen at transmission of Zika virus. the time of sampling, and attempts to culture virus were often unsuccessful. In two cohort studies, both conducted Condoms, as used in these guidelines: Male and female in the USA, 31/55 (56%, 95% confidence interval (CI): condoms, in particular male latex condoms and condoms 42–69) and 60/184 (33%, 95% CI: 26–40) men had Zika made of other polymer-based materials, but not condoms virus detected by reverse transcription polymerase chain made of sheep intestines. reaction (RT-PCR) in any semen sample (48, 49). Amongst 110 men in whom Zika virus culture in seminal fluid was attempted (10, 48, 50), no culturable virus was
