WHO guidelines for
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, transmission, sexual, evidence, sexual transmission, infection, transmission zika, women, virus infection, ongoing, areas, recommendations, guidelines


sheep intestines. reaction (RT-PCR) in any semen sample (48, 49). Amongst 110 men in whom Zika virus culture in seminal fluid was attempted (10, 48, 50), no culturable virus was detected beyond 69 days after symptom onset (median 10 days, IQR: 1–20) (20). Recommendations for the prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus Ninety days after the onset of symptoms of Zika virus Certainty of evidence about the serial interval, reproduction infection, (13.6%, 95% CI: 7.2–21.1) of men reported in case number due to sexual transmission, and proportion of reports and case series had Zika virus detected in semen cases due to sexual transmission was very low, and the by RT-PCR (10). In one prospective cohort study, Zika certainty of evidence about the probability of transmission virus was detected by RT-PCR, 9% was positive at day 90 per sex act was low. (95% CI: 3-20) (49). In the collected case reports and case series, 15 out of 128 semen samples were positive after 90 The evidence about the duration of infectiousness in the days (11%, 95% CI: 2–11) (45, 47, 51–57). The quantity of male genital tract is highly relevant to high relevance. The ribonucleic acid (RNA) in semen samples appears to decline question of how long condom use should be recommended over time (58). The duration of viral RNA positivity detected included cohort studies with low certainty, and case reports with RT-PCR likely overestimates the presence of infectious and case series with very low certainty. The certainty of virus in a semen sample (58, 59) (Table 1, Annex B3). evidence on duration of infectiousness in the female genital tract and saliva was very low (Table 1, Annex B3). Presence of virus in female genital tract Key question (2): Does consistent and The evidence team found only one case of symptomatic correct condom use reduce transmission of Zika virus infection in a male partner of a women returning Zika virus? from an area with ongoing Zika virus transmission. The serial interval was six days (21). Among publications No direct evidence was found on the minimal infectious reporting detection of viral RNA in the female genital tract, dose for the sexual transmission of Zika virus, and no direct the maximum duration was 37 days (60). In one case report evidence was found on the effectiveness of condoms to of a woman infected with human immunodeficiency virus prevent sexual transmission of Zika
