WHO guidelines for
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, transmission, sexual, evidence, sexual transmission, infection, transmission zika, women, virus infection, ongoing, areas, recommendations, guidelines


was 37 days (60). In one case report evidence was found on the effectiveness of condoms to of a woman infected with human immunodeficiency virus prevent sexual transmission of Zika virus. Based on indirect (HIV), Zika virus was cultured in vaginal samples on day evidence from the following: a total of 24 experimental three after symptom onset (61). The evidence team did studies comprising 15 laboratory studies on other viruses not find any documented case of Zika virus infection in a and virus-sized particles (64–78) and nine animal studies female sexual partner of a women returning from an area (79–87); eight reviews comprising four systematic (88–91) with ongoing Zika virus transmission (Table 1, Annex B3). and four non-systematic (92–95); one modelling study (96); and one pooled cohort study (97), correct and consistent Presence of virus in saliva use of condoms prevents sexual transmission of Zika virus with an effectiveness that is comparable to the effectiveness Twenty-two included studies reported RT-PCR detectability of condoms to prevent the sexual transmission of HIV. Only of Zika virus RNA in saliva. The median duration of Zika two of the included studies reported on the effectiveness of virus positivity of saliva was 6.8 days (95% CI: 4.3–9.6) female condoms, but the evidence team assumes that the based on measurements from 76 individuals in 22 reports effectiveness of female condoms can be compared to male (10), with a maximum of 91 days (52). condoms if used correctly. Thus, the guidelines include both male and female condoms as a measure to prevent Incubation period the sexual transmission of Zika virus (Table 2, Annex B3). The incubation period for mosquito-borne Zika virus is Certainty of evidence estimated from modelling at 5.9 days (95% CrI: 4.4–7.6) with 95% of people developing symptoms within 11.2 days The certainty of the indirect evidence ranged from very (95% CrI: 7.6–18) (62). A similar incubation period, 3–14 low to moderate, and the overall certainty of the evidence days, was estimated based on analysis of 197 Zika virus- for this outcome was assessed as very low, owing to infected individuals (63) (Table 1, Annex B3). indirectness. Certainty of evidence Key question (3): When and for how long does one need to use a condom? The certainty of the evidence ranged from very low to low, and not all parameters of the sexual transmission Because of the absence of direct evidence, the GDG used framework
