WHO guidelines for
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, transmission, sexual, evidence, sexual transmission, infection, transmission zika, women, virus infection, ongoing, areas, recommendations, guidelines


The certainty of the evidence ranged from very low to low, and not all parameters of the sexual transmission Because of the absence of direct evidence, the GDG used framework could be assessed: no evidence about the combined evidence from key questions (1) and (2) to susceptibility, the incubation period following sexual answer this question and formulate recommendations, transmission, or the transmission rate was found. after reaching consensus. See the EtD framework (Annex B4, 1. Areas with ongoing transmission, and 2. Areas without ongoing transmission) for details. WHO guidelines for the prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus Limitations of the evidence in key questions c) Men should be informed about the possible risk of (1), (2) and (3) sexual transmission of Zika virus during the 3 months after known or presumptive infection.6 Men should There was no evidence on the relationships between be informed about the correct and consistent use of Zika virus RNA detection using RT-PCR, detection in viral condoms or abstinence during that time period to culture, and duration of infectiousness. prevent Zika virus infection through sexual transmission (Conditional recommendation, low certainty The exact duration of the latent period of Zika virus is of evidence). unknown. The virus can be transmissible before onset of the symptoms in men (16). Whether or not this also applies d) Women should be informed about the possible risk of to women is unknown. sexual transmission of Zika virus during the 2 months after known or presumptive infection.6 Women should How frequently asymptomatic Zika virus infection in a be informed about the correct and consistent use of male or female returning traveller results in asymptomatic condoms or abstinence during that time period to Zika virus infection in a sexual partner, or how frequently prevent Zika virus infection through sexual transmission symptomatic Zika virus infection in a male or female (Conditional recommendation, very low certainty returning traveller results in asymptomatic Zika virus of evidence). infection in a sexual partner, is unknown. 1.2 Recommendations for women or couples planning There was no direct evidence on the effectiveness of to conceive or having sex that could result in condoms to prevent sexual transmission of Zika virus, conception and the minimal infectious dose of Zika virus for sexual transmission is unknown. a) Women who have had sex that could result in conception and do not wish to become pregnant due to concerns about Zika virus infection
