WHO guidelines for
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, transmission, sexual, evidence, sexual transmission, infection, transmission zika, women, virus infection, ongoing, areas, recommendations, guidelines


for sexual transmission is unknown. a) Women who have had sex that could result in conception and do not wish to become pregnant due to concerns about Zika virus infection should have 4.3 Recommendations ready access to emergency contraceptive services and counselling (Best practice). 1. Recommendations for individuals living in areas with ongoing transmission of b) Women should receive information about the Zika virus: possible risk of vertical transmission of Zika virus to the fetus. Women should avoid sex that could result in 1.1 Recommendations for all sexually active women conception for 2 months after known or presumptive and men infection,6 to ensure that a possible Zika virus infection has cleared before becoming pregnant (Strong a) All women and men with Zika virus infection and recommendation, very low certainty of evidence). their sexual partners, particularly pregnant women,5 should receive information about the risks of sexual c) Male sexual partners should receive information about transmission of Zika virus (Strong recommendation, the possible risk of sexual transmission of Zika virus very low certainty of evidence). during the 3 months after known or presumptive infection.6 Men should use condoms correctly and b) All women and men should be offered a full range of consistently or abstain from having sex for that time contraceptives and be counselled to be able to make an period to prevent Zika virus infection through sexual informed choice about whether and when to prevent transmission (Strong recommendation, low certainty pregnancy in order to avoid possible adverse outcomes of evidence). of Zika virus infection during pregnancy (Strong recommendation, best practice recommendation). 5 Further guidance on Zika virus infection and pregnancy can be found in the WHO interim guidelines on Pregnancy management in the context of Zika virus infection (available online at 6 After known or presumptive infection: After onset of symptoms compatible with Zika virus infection or, if asymptomatic, a positive test result for Zika virus. Most Zika virus infections are asymptomatic. Sexual transmission from a partner with asymptomatic Zika virus infection has been reported. Whether a person is infected or not may be hard to establish, given the low diagnostic accuracy of some available tests and the absence of resources for testing in some areas. Further guidance on the diagnosis of Zika virus infection can be found in the WHO interim guidance Laboratory testing for Zika virus infection (available online at Recommendations for the prevention of sexual transmission of
