WHO guidelines for
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, transmission, sexual, evidence, sexual transmission, infection, transmission zika, women, virus infection, ongoing, areas, recommendations, guidelines


areas with ongoing Zika virus transmission and their sexual partners, particularly pregnant women,5 2.3 Recommendations for pregnant women1 and their should receive information about the risks of sexual sexual partners travelling to or returning from areas transmission of Zika virus (Strong recommendation, with ongoing Zika virus transmission very low certainty of evidence). a) Pregnant women and their sexual partners should use b) All women and men travelling to or returning from condoms correctly and consistently, or abstain from sex areas with ongoing transmission of Zika virus should be for the whole duration of the pregnancy, if the sexual offered a full range of contraceptives and be counselled partner is returning from areas with ongoing Zika virus in order to assist them to make an informed choice transmission. This recommendation aims to prevent about whether and when to prevent pregnancy in Zika virus infection through sexual transmission and order to avoid possible adverse outcomes of Zika virus possible adverse pregnancy and fetal outcomes (Strong infection during pregnancy (Strong recommendation, recommendation, very low certainty of evidence). best practice recommendation). b) Pregnant women should consider delaying c) Men returning from areas with ongoing Zika virus nonessential travel to areas with ongoing Zika virus transmission and their sexual partners should use transmission (Conditional recommendation, very low condoms correctly and consistently, or abstain from sex certainty of evidence). for at least 3 months after the last possible exposure8 to 7 Local or projected transmission rates: In areas with high levels of current ongoing Zika virus transmission, delaying conception until the transmission rate decreases can reduce the risk of Zika virus infection during pregnancy. 8 After the last possible exposure: After the last day of stay in an area with ongoing Zika virus transmission or the last day of sexual contact with a possibly Zika virus-infected person. WHO guidelines for the prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus 3. Recommendations about safer sex the GDG favoured the intervention because of the very high certainty that the avoidance of the severe possible WHO always recommends the use of safer sexual practices. consequences of Zika virus infection in pregnant women Safer sex is a behavioural concept that promotes the outweighs the disadvantage of a short duration of condom reduction of sexual risk-taking behaviour. It emphasizes use or abstinence. The GDG judged that acceptability of measures to reduce the risk of contracting or spreading the recommendation amongst affected people
