WHO guidelines for
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, transmission, sexual, evidence, sexual transmission, infection, transmission zika, women, virus infection, ongoing, areas, recommendations, guidelines


reduction of sexual risk-taking behaviour. It emphasizes use or abstinence. The GDG judged that acceptability of measures to reduce the risk of contracting or spreading the recommendation amongst affected people might be STIs, including postponing sexual debut, non-penetrative challenging, with low compliance, and acknowledged sex, correct and consistent use of male or female that condoms may be perceived as a burden. However, condoms, and reducing the number of sexual partners. condoms are already recommended and used for the prevention of conception and other STIs. Shorter durations Men and women should receive counselling and be informed of condom use may be more acceptable. about safer sex. Health authorities should ensure affordable and equitable access to condoms and other contraception Recommendations that apply to areas with ongoing methods, especially in the context of Zika virus transmission transmission and other STIs. The correct and consistent use of condoms reduces the risk of an unintended pregnancy For women and men living in areas with ongoing as well as sexually transmitted infections, including HIV. transmission, the GDG formulated a conditional recommendation for condom use or abstinence (recommendation 1.1c, 1.1d). Condom use or abstinence 4.4 Rationale for generally has moderate desirable effects and small recommendations undesirable effects but the certainty of evidence is very low to low. The GDG judged the recommendations to require without ongoing transmission equity, varying acceptability among key stakeholders, and to be feasible to implement. There may be important For all individuals living in areas with ongoing transmission variability on how individuals value the prevention of the or travelling to areas with ongoing transmission, the GDG sexual transmission of Zika virus: well informed individuals, decided to formulate a strong recommendation that all couples planning to conceive, and pregnant women may men and women should receive information about the value the prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus. risk of sexual transmission of Zika virus infection because Travellers are a clearly defined and limited group of people. information is a key component of prevention and for the The GDG concluded that condom use or abstinence successful implementation of the recommendations on probably incurs negligible costs in travellers and the impact that free access to contraception and counselling to enable couples to make an informed choice about postponing Recommendations that apply to areas without ongoing conception in case of ongoing Zika virus transmission should transmission be a best practice recommendation (1.1b, 1.2a, 2.1b). For
