WHO guidelines for
KEYWORDS: virus, zika, zika virus, transmission, sexual, evidence, sexual transmission, infection, transmission zika, women, virus infection, ongoing, areas, recommendations, guidelines


informed choice about postponing Recommendations that apply to areas without ongoing conception in case of ongoing Zika virus transmission should transmission be a best practice recommendation (1.1b, 1.2a, 2.1b). For women and men from areas without ongoing For women planning to conceive or having sex that transmission, who are travelling back from areas with ongoing could result in conception and their male partners, and transmission of Zika virus, the GDC decided to formulate a for pregnant women, the GDG decided to formulate a strong recommendation for condom use or abstinence strong recommendation for condom use or abstinence because of the very high certainty that the benefits of avoiding given the potentially severe outcomes of congenital Zika Zika virus infection outweighs the disadvantage of a short virus infection (1.2b, 1.2c, 1.3a, 2.2a, 2.2b). duration of condom use or abstinence although the certainty of evidence is very low to low (2.1 c, 2.1d). For pregnant In pregnant women and couples planning to conceive women, the GDG formulated a strong recommendation the GDG formulated a strong recommendation to to abstain from travelling to areas with ongoing transmission receive information and counselling regarding the sexual of Zika virus, owing to the severe possible outcomes transmission of Zika virus owing to the possible severe from mosquito-borne infection. The GDG concluded that consequences of congenital Zika virus infection (1.2b, acceptability is likely high in this risk group, owing to the 1.2c, 1.2d, 2.3a). The GDG judged that positive effects of severity of the potential adverse congenital outcomes. condom use or abstinence may be small, owing to the likely small proportion of cases due to sexual transmission, For a detailed rationale, see Annex B4 – Evidence to except for the subgroup of pregnant women. However, decision frameworks. Recommendations for the prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus In addition, research on the following outstanding 4.5 Research implications questions is needed to improve understanding of sexual transmission of Zika virus. Several research gaps were identified at the preliminary planning meeting in March 2017 (98). The most relevant • Whether and how sexually transmitted Zika virus research gaps for these guidelines, and the understanding infection differs from mosquito-borne transmission: of the risk of the sexual transmission of Zika virus, are the for example, is there a difference in the proportion quantification of the parameters of the sexual transmission or severity of adverse pregnancy and congenital framework (Fig. 2). The
