Guidance on the use of drugs for early thrombolysis in the treatment of acute myocardial
KEYWORDS: drugs, streptokinase, alteplase, thrombolysis, thrombolytic, pre-hospital, reteplase, accelerated, hospital, tenecteplase, accelerated alteplase, cost, mortality, committee, patients


infarction 1 Recommendations This guidance provides recommendations on the selection of thrombolytic drugs in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Recommendations are made in relation to the use of the drugs in hospital and pre-hospital settings. The guidance does not compare hospital and pre-hospital models of delivering thrombolysis. 1.1 It is recommended that, in hospital, the choice of thrombolytic drug (alteplase, reteplase, streptokinase or tenecteplase) should take account of: • the likely balance of benefit and harm (for example, stroke) to which each of the thrombolytic agents would expose the individual patient • current UK clinical practice, in which it is accepted that patients who have previously received streptokinase should not be treated with it again • the hospital's arrangements for reducing delays in the administration of thrombolysis. 1.2 Where pre-hospital delivery of thrombolytic drugs is considered a beneficial approach as part of an emergency-care pathway for AMI (for example, because of population geography or the accessibility of acute hospital facilities), the practicalities of administering thrombolytic drugs in pre-hospital settings mean that the bolus drugs (reteplase or tenecteplase) are recommended as the preferred option. 2 Clinical need and practice 2.1 Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is caused by blockage of a coronary artery by a thrombus or clot. This is usually the result of rupture of an atherosclerotic plaque within the artery. The heart muscle supplied by that artery is damaged or dies because of lack of oxygen (ischaemia). Patients with AMI may develop heart failure or potentially fatal cardiac arrhythmias as a result of damage to the heart muscle. These and other complications may occur early, within the first few hours of the event, or may develop over the subsequent months or years. 2.2 Around 240,000 people experience AMI in England and Wales each year. Up to 50% of people who have an AMI die within 30 days of the event, and over half of these deaths occur before medical assistance arrives or the patient reaches hospital. 2.3 Onset of AMI symptoms is usually rapid and the highest risk of death (usually as the result of an acute fatal arrhythmia) is within the first hour of experiencing symptoms – around one-third of all AMI deaths occur within the first hour. 2.4 Thrombolytic drugs break down the thrombus so that the blood flow to the heart muscle can be restored to prevent further damage and assist healing. The sooner the blood
