Guidance on the use of drugs for early thrombolysis in the treatment of acute myocardial
KEYWORDS: drugs, streptokinase, alteplase, thrombolysis, thrombolytic, pre-hospital, reteplase, accelerated, hospital, tenecteplase, accelerated alteplase, cost, mortality, committee, patients


2.4 Thrombolytic drugs break down the thrombus so that the blood flow to the heart muscle can be restored to prevent further damage and assist healing. The sooner the blood flow can be restored, the better the chances of avoiding the death of the heart muscle. Along with clinical symptoms (typically but not exclusively chest pain), characteristic changes in the 12-lead electrocardiogram (ST segment elevation) provide the most immediate indication of the diagnosis of AMI for patients requiring thrombolysis for AMI. 2.5 Intravenous thrombolytic therapy is an established standard treatment for AMI. It is estimated that around 50,000 patients currently receive thrombolysis in England and Wales each year. However, evidence suggests that thrombolysis continues to be under-used. 2.6 Thrombolytic drugs are routinely given in hospital as soon as possible after a confirmed diagnosis of AMI. Additionally, their administration in pre-hospital settings, principally by ambulance paramedics, is becoming more common. 2.7 Early primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) may be an alternative to thrombolysis. Despite research evidence of the potential value of early PCI, currently few hospital trusts have the capacity to provide it. Treatment delivering thrombolytics in combination with glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors is also the subject of research studies. However, these interventions are beyond the scope of this appraisal. 3 The technology 3.1 Thrombolytic drugs 3.1.1 In the UK, four thrombolytic agents are licensed and available to treat AMI. All act by promoting the activity of circulating plasminogen. There is a long history of use of one, streptokinase, whereas the other three, alteplase, reteplase and tenecteplase, are newer options. Streptokinase is derived from streptococcal bacteria. Streptokinase is given by intravenous (IV) infusion. Alteplase was introduced in the late 1980s. It is essentially the same as the naturally occurring activator of plasminogen in the human body, and is produced by recombinant DNA technology. It is given by IV infusion. Reteplase and tenecteplase have been introduced more recently (1997 and 2001, respectively). They are new modified forms of plasminogen activator and can be given by rapid IV bolus injection, rather than infusion. 3.1.2 The timing of administration is a crucial factor determining the extent of benefit achieved by thrombolysis, and treatment should ideally be given as soon as possible (normally up to 12 hours) after the onset of AMI symptoms. 3.1.3 Bleeding complications are the main risks associated with thrombolysis. The most important bleeding complication is haemorrhagic stroke, which occurs in 0.5% to
