Guidance on the use of drugs for early thrombolysis in the treatment of acute myocardial
KEYWORDS: drugs, streptokinase, alteplase, thrombolysis, thrombolytic, pre-hospital, reteplase, accelerated, hospital, tenecteplase, accelerated alteplase, cost, mortality, committee, patients


hours) after the onset of AMI symptoms. 3.1.3 Bleeding complications are the main risks associated with thrombolysis. The most important bleeding complication is haemorrhagic stroke, which occurs in 0.5% to 1.0% of patients and is associated with high mortality and long-term disability in survivors. Bleeding may occur at the injection site, in the gastrointestinal tract or elsewhere. Hypotension may also occur. The risks and benefits of giving thrombolysis need to be considered in individual patients and settings. The risk of haemorrhagic stroke following thrombolysis increases with age and blood pressure. Thrombolysis is contraindicated in individuals with bleeding disorders or a history of recent haemorrhage, trauma, surgery or acute cerebrovascular event. For full details of side effects and contraindications, see the Summary of Product Characteristics for the individual agents. 3.1.4 Heparin (an anticoagulant) is given with all of the thrombolytic drugs except streptokinase. It is usually administered as an IV bolus injection before thrombolysis, followed by an IV infusion. When given with tenecteplase the heparin dose is weight adjusted. Aspirin (an antiplatelet agent) is also usually given with any thrombolytic drug, because it delivers a mortality benefit in its own right. 3.1.5 Streptokinase (Streptase) is indicated up to 12 hours after onset of symptoms. It is administered as an IV infusion over 1 hour. It has been extensively studied and remains widely used. Streptokinase is associated with hypotension, infrequent allergic reactions and, rarely, anaphylaxis. Patients treated with streptokinase develop anti-streptococcal antibodies, which can inactivate the drug if subsequent treatment is needed. Consequently in current UK practice, patients are usually treated with streptokinase only once. It is estimated that around one- third of people with AMI have contraindications to streptokinase. A recent survey found that 82% of hospitals in England use streptokinase for eligible patients experiencing their first AMI; other data suggest that streptokinase represents between 53% and 65% of thrombolytic drug use. Streptokinase costs £80 to £90 per patient (excluding VAT; BNF 43, March 2002). 3.1.6 Alteplase (Actilyse, recombinant human tissue plasminogen activator, rtPA) can be delivered in a standard or accelerated regimen. The accelerated regimen, which is much more commonly used, is indicated up to 6 hours after symptom onset and is delivered by an initial IV bolus injection, followed by two IV infusions, the first given over 30 minutes and the second over 60 minutes. The standard regimen is indicated between 6 and 12 hours after symptom onset and
