Guidance on the use of drugs for early thrombolysis in the treatment of acute myocardial
KEYWORDS: drugs, streptokinase, alteplase, thrombolysis, thrombolytic, pre-hospital, reteplase, accelerated, hospital, tenecteplase, accelerated alteplase, cost, mortality, committee, patients


by two IV infusions, the first given over 30 minutes and the second over 60 minutes. The standard regimen is indicated between 6 and 12 hours after symptom onset and requires a bolus injection followed by five infusions over 3 hours. Like the other newer drugs, alteplase does not stimulate the production of antibodies, so it can be used repeatedly. It is estimated that alteplase represents between 23% and 32% of thrombolytic drug use in the UK. Alteplase costs £600 per patient (excluding VAT; BNF 43, March 2002). 3.1.7 Reteplase (Rapilysin) is indicated up to 12 hours after symptom onset. It is given as two IV bolus injections 30 minutes apart. It is estimated that reteplase represents between 12% and 15% of thrombolytic drug use in the UK. Reteplase costs £716 per patient (excluding VAT; BNF 43, March 2002). 3.1.8 Tenecteplase (Metalyse) is indicated up to 6 hours after symptom onset. It is administered as a single (weight-adjusted) IV bolus injection. It is estimated that tenecteplase currently accounts for around 1% of thrombolytic drug use in the UK, the manufacturer indicates that the proportion is increasing. Tenecteplase costs £700 to £770 per patient (excluding VAT; BNF 43, March 2002). 3.2 Delivering thrombolytic drugs 3.2.1 The National Service Framework (NSF) for coronary heart disease (CHD) in England and Tackling CHD in Wales specify that eligible patients with AMI should be given thrombolysis within 60 minutes of calling for professional help ('call-to- needle' time) and should receive thrombolysis within 20 minutes of arriving at hospital ('door-to-needle' time). It is also suggested that it may be appropriate to provide pre-hospital thrombolysis where local 'call-to-hospital' times are likely to be over 30 minutes. The NHS Plan in England gave a commitment to train and equip ambulance paramedics to provide thrombolysis. 3.2.2 Direct admission to a coronary care unit (CCU) is often not possible, and A&E departments are being encouraged to administer thrombolysis to reduce delays in door-to-needle times. The potential for specialist nursing input in the delivery of thrombolysis is being developed. 3.2.3 Given the benefits of early administration of thrombolysis on reducing damage to heart muscle and consequently on long-term outcomes, pre-hospital administration of thrombolysis by ambulance paramedics is being gradually implemented in the NHS. 3.2.4 Currently, pre-hospital thrombolysis is administered by fewer than five ambulance services and a small number of remote community hospitals in England and Wales. Ongoing changes in infrastructure
