Guidance on the use of drugs for early thrombolysis in the treatment of acute myocardial
KEYWORDS: drugs, streptokinase, alteplase, thrombolysis, thrombolytic, pre-hospital, reteplase, accelerated, hospital, tenecteplase, accelerated alteplase, cost, mortality, committee, patients


the NHS. 3.2.4 Currently, pre-hospital thrombolysis is administered by fewer than five ambulance services and a small number of remote community hospitals in England and Wales. Ongoing changes in infrastructure and training will be required to implement the requirements of the NSF for CHD, Tackling CHD in Wales and the NHS Plan to allow more widespread delivery in pre-hospital settings. 3.2.5 Currently, streptokinase is the only thrombolytic that paramedics are authorised to administer under the Prescription Only Medicines (Human Use) Order 1997. However, paramedics can administer other thrombolytic drugs under local Patient Group Directions, and guidelines on their use by paramedics have been developed by the Joint Royal Colleges Ambulance Liaison Committee (JRCALC). 3.2.6 There are practical difficulties in giving controlled-rate infusions in pre-hospital settings, including drug preparation requirements, the practicalities of giving an infusion in an ambulance and, for streptokinase, concerns about higher rates of allergic reactions and hypotension, which are more difficult to manage away from hospital. 3.2.7 Although they are not within the scope of this appraisal, a number of organisational models of service delivery are relevant when considering the feasibility of administering different thrombolytic agents and their effectiveness in particular settings. These involve organisational, practical and operator issues. In-hospital thrombolysis models include: • assessment and treatment in A&E • rapid assessment in A&E and transfer to CCU • direct admission to CCU. Pre-hospital models include: • community hospital administration (nurse or general practitioner) • general practitioner administration (at the point of contact) • telemetry-supported paramedic administration • autonomous paramedic administration. 4 Evidence The appraisal committee reviewed the evidence from a number of sources. 4.1 Clinical effectiveness 4.1.1 In-hospital thrombolysis 4.1.1.1 Fourteen randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing thrombolytic drugs were included in the review. Overall the studies were considered to be of excellent quality. In total, the trials involved over 142,000 patients, and 5 of the trials included over 10,000 patients each. The trials had similar inclusion criteria in terms of age (usually less than 70 or 75 years), ECG changes, duration of symptoms, and presentation within 6 hours of symptom onset. Five of the trials included between 12% and 26% of patients aged over 70 to 75 years. Women were under-represented in all of the studies. Primary endpoints included 30-day mortality, 90-minute artery patency/flow rates and left ventricular function. Secondary endpoints included bleeding, stroke, congestive heart failure, reinfarction, allergy and anaphylaxis. The results of the trials
