Guidance on the use of drugs for early thrombolysis in the treatment of acute myocardial
KEYWORDS: drugs, streptokinase, alteplase, thrombolysis, thrombolytic, pre-hospital, reteplase, accelerated, hospital, tenecteplase, accelerated alteplase, cost, mortality, committee, patients


statistically significant difference between the 2 drugs, in terms of survival or adverse effects. The mortality rate at 30 days was 7.5% in the reteplase group and 7.2% in the accelerated alteplase group: an absolute risk reduction of 0.23% in favour of accelerated alteplase (95% CI -1.10% to 0.66%). Given the confidence limits, reteplase cannot be considered as equivalent to accelerated alteplase. Tenecteplase 4.1.1.8 ASSENT-2, an equivalence trial of over 16,000 patients compared tenecteplase and accelerated alteplase. The study found that 30-day mortality was almost the same in the tenecteplase group (6.2%) and the accelerated alteplase (6.2%) group. The absolute difference of 0.03% in favour of accelerated alteplase was not statistically significant (95% CI -0.55% to 0.61%). Given the confidence limits, tenecteplase and accelerated alteplase can be considered equivalent in terms of mortality. However, there was a small but statistically significant reduction in the incidence of bleeding with tenecteplase (26.4% compared with 28.9% in the accelerated alteplase group), resulting in fewer blood transfusions in the tenecteplase group (4.3% of patients compared with 5.5% in the accelerated alteplase group). Also, the rate of heart failure was statistically significantly lower in the tenecteplase group than in the accelerated alteplase group (6.1% vs 7.0%, p=0.026). Subgroups 4.1.1.9 None of the trials discussed was designed to investigate clinical subgroups, such as by age or site of infarct (anterior, inferior). It was concluded that there was no convincing evidence of relative differences in the effectiveness of the available drugs in subgroups. The greater absolute benefit found in patients with anterior infarcts in GUSTO-I may simply be a reflection of the higher baseline risk in this group. The greater relative benefit in patients aged under 75 years was not reflected in their level of absolute risk reduction. None of the differences between the subgroups appeared to be statistically significant by interaction. Summary 4.1.1.10 In summary, given the evidence on clinical effectiveness, it can be concluded that, in the hospital setting, in terms of mortality: • standard alteplase is as effective as streptokinase • reteplase is at least as effective as streptokinase, and • tenecteplase is as effective as accelerated alteplase. 4.1.1.11 If accelerated alteplase is believed to be superior to streptokinase, then indirectly tenecteplase would also be considered to be superior to streptokinase. 4.1.1.12 Conclusions regarding the equivalence of reteplase compared with accelerated alteplase depend on the interpretation of GUSTO-III. 4.1.1.13 Furthermore, if reteplase is considered
