Guidance on the use of drugs for early thrombolysis in the treatment of acute myocardial
KEYWORDS: drugs, streptokinase, alteplase, thrombolysis, thrombolytic, pre-hospital, reteplase, accelerated, hospital, tenecteplase, accelerated alteplase, cost, mortality, committee, patients


be considered to be superior to streptokinase. 4.1.1.12 Conclusions regarding the equivalence of reteplase compared with accelerated alteplase depend on the interpretation of GUSTO-III. 4.1.1.13 Furthermore, if reteplase is considered to be equivalent to accelerated alteplase, then this indirectly implies that reteplase is as effective as tenecteplase. 4.1.1.14 Important differences in major adverse events between the thrombolytic agents are also apparent. The newer drugs are associated with a higher risk of haemorrhagic stroke compared with streptokinase, but there are no apparent differences in the frequency of haemorrhagic stroke between accelerated alteplase and reteplase (GUSTO-III), or between accelerated alteplase and tenecteplase (ASSENT-2). However, compared with streptokinase, the newer drugs may also be associated with a lower incidence of congestive heart failure. In addition, allergic reactions are more common with streptokinase than with the other drugs, and major bleeds (leading to transfusions) may also be more common with streptokinase, although the evidence on this is not consistent across the trials. There is also some evidence that tenecteplase may be associated with lower rates of major bleeds and heart failure than accelerated alteplase. 4.1.2 Pre-hospital thrombolysis 4.1.2.1 No RCTs were found comparing the different thrombolytic drugs in pre-hospital settings. 4.1.2.2 However, 9 RCTs and a systematic review investigating the feasibility, safety and efficacy of pre-hospital administration of thrombolysis compared with hospital administration were considered in the context of the appraisal. A number of other papers reporting non-randomised studies and audits of pre-hospital thrombolysis were also considered in relation to practical and implementation issues. 4.1.2.3 The RCTs were small, except for one that included over 5,000 patients (EMIP). They were undertaken in a mixture of urban and/or rural settings in Israel, continental Europe, Canada, the USA, Northern Ireland, and Scotland. A variety of thrombolytic drugs were studied – 4 studies used alteplase, 4 used streptokinase-type drugs, and 1 used urokinase (which is not available in the UK). Only the USA study (MITI) involved paramedics administering the thrombolytic (after remote consultation with a physician). In all but 1 of the other studies, a hospital physician attended the patient and administered the drug. In the rural Scottish trial (GREAT) a general practitioner undertook assessment and treatment. 4.1.2.4 The RCTs found that, on average, pre-hospital thrombolysis was administered 58 minutes earlier than hospital thrombolysis; the differences ranged from 33 minutes in the MITI study to 130 minutes in the GREAT study. Individually, the trials failed to show
