Guidance on the use of drugs for early thrombolysis in the treatment of acute myocardial
KEYWORDS: drugs, streptokinase, alteplase, thrombolysis, thrombolytic, pre-hospital, reteplase, accelerated, hospital, tenecteplase, accelerated alteplase, cost, mortality, committee, patients


administered 58 minutes earlier than hospital thrombolysis; the differences ranged from 33 minutes in the MITI study to 130 minutes in the GREAT study. Individually, the trials failed to show statistically significant reductions in in-hospital mortality, although findings in all of the studies favoured pre-hospital administration. However, a meta-analysis of 6 of the trials found a statistically significant absolute reduction in mortality of 1.6% (95% CI 0.2% to 3%), and a relative risk reduction of 17% (95% CI 2% to 30%, p=0.03) favouring pre-hospital administration of thrombolysis. This analysis is heavily influenced by the results of the GREAT study (in which thrombolysis was administered by general practitioners in rural Scotland) and therefore does not directly relate to the potential for paramedic-based pre-hospital thrombolysis. 4.1.2.5 A number of observational studies examining pre-hospital thrombolysis were considered, although these generally only provide further insight into feasibility and safety. They include studies of administration of anistreplase (a streptokinase-like drug that is no longer available in the UK) by paramedics or general practitioners in a Dutch city, reteplase administered by ambulance-based nurses in Sweden, reteplase administered by paramedics in the USA, anistreplase administered in a rural Italian emergency room, and 2 reports of a small number of cases of reteplase administered by paramedics with hospital telemetry support in England. 4.2 Cost effectiveness 4.2.1 In-hospital thrombolysis 4.2.1.1 The assessment group's literature review found 8 published articles on the cost- effectiveness of thrombolytic agents that met the inclusion criteria for the review of cost effectiveness. All compared streptokinase and alteplase (standard and accelerated) in a hospital setting. Three of the articles reported different aspects of the same cost-effectiveness model. Most studies reported incremental costs per life-year gained, and 3 also reported incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). Most of the studies were based on the effectiveness results of GUSTO-I, in which data on resource use were collected only for USA centres. Consequently, the analyses undertaken in Canada, Ireland and France had to attempt to translate these to settings in other countries. 4.2.1.2 In general, the studies had the following limitations: costs and benefits were not measured in the same populations; comparator treatments were often inadequately described; and the derivation of utility values was inadequately explained. None of the studies undertook costing at a patient level and, while in general similar cost categories were included, only some of the studies included the longer-term costs of stroke and
