Guidance on the use of drugs for early thrombolysis in the treatment of acute myocardial
KEYWORDS: drugs, streptokinase, alteplase, thrombolysis, thrombolytic, pre-hospital, reteplase, accelerated, hospital, tenecteplase, accelerated alteplase, cost, mortality, committee, patients


of the studies undertook costing at a patient level and, while in general similar cost categories were included, only some of the studies included the longer-term costs of stroke and heart failure. Some of the studies included consideration of adverse events, including stroke, reinfarction, major bleeds, anaphylaxis, and congestive heart failure. 4.2.1.3 The analyses undertaken following GUSTO-I, which found a survival advantage for accelerated alteplase at 30 days, showed the drug to be cost effective compared with streptokinase within the context of the clinical trial in the US healthcare system. In all of the studies, sensitivity analyses found that assumptions regarding mortality differences and costs were important, so any conclusions drawn are heavily dependent on the interpretation of the effectiveness findings of GUSTO-I. 4.2.1.4 In particular, the economic analysis undertaken in the USA alongside GUSTO-I modelled lifetime costs and benefits, and reported an incremental cost per life- year gained of $32,678 and an incremental cost per QALY of $36,402 for accelerated alteplase compared with streptokinase. The subgroup analyses found that accelerated alteplase became more cost effective in patients with higher absolute mortality risk – for example, $13,410 per life-year gained in patients older than 75 years with anterior myocardial infarction. However, the analysis requires extremely cautious interpretation given a number of issues, including uncertainties over the interpretation of GUSTO-I (in general and in subgroups), application of US data on resource use, and the assumption that costs did not differ significantly between treatment groups. 4.2.1.5 Overall, there is little relevant published evidence on the economics of thrombolytics in a UK setting, and none examining the currently available bolus drugs. However, 2 cost-effectiveness models were submitted by manufacturers. 4.2.1.6 It is logical to assume that the earlier the administration the greater the reduction in damage to the heart. However, while precise assumptions about the survival/ time-to-treatment curve affect the benefit results in any modelling, it is unlikely that any one drug has a large advantage over any other with regard to timing of administration. 4.2.1.7 The 2 manufacturers' models are similar in structure and scope, although they differ in terms of method and level of detail. Roche's model examines costs up to 30 days, assumes all 4 drugs have equivalent efficacy, and has less detailed costing. In contrast the Boehringer Ingelheim model includes costing up to 10 years, includes long-term costing for individual complications (such as congestive heart failure and stroke), and
