Guidance on the use of drugs for early thrombolysis in the treatment of acute myocardial
KEYWORDS: drugs, streptokinase, alteplase, thrombolysis, thrombolytic, pre-hospital, reteplase, accelerated, hospital, tenecteplase, accelerated alteplase, cost, mortality, committee, patients


has less detailed costing. In contrast the Boehringer Ingelheim model includes costing up to 10 years, includes long-term costing for individual complications (such as congestive heart failure and stroke), and incorporates differential survival and complication outcomes for the drugs and more detailed estimation of utilities. Both models incorporate a range of different assumptions regarding adverse events. The models also incorporate adjustment for the timing of administration, including time-savings in pre-hospital settings in which only bolus drugs are compared. 4.2.1.8 The Roche model essentially represents a cost-minimisation analysis, and finds reteplase slightly less costly than accelerated alteplase or tenecteplase in hospital. The Boehringer Ingelheim model assumes better survival and a lower incidence of post-infarct congestive heart failure (streptokinase 15.4%, accelerated alteplase 13.5%, reteplase 13.5%, tenecteplase 11.8%) for tenecteplase. These assumptions, together with 10-year discounted costs, lead to a finding that tenecteplase dominates accelerated alteplase and reteplase in hospital (that is, it is of lower cost and greater effectiveness). 4.2.1.9 The assessment group adjusted key parameters, tested sensitivities and presented revised results using the manufacturers' models. The sensitivity analysis examined the parameter values submitted by the manufacturers for the following: 30-day mortality, strokes, major bleeds, reinfarctions and congestive heart failure. 4.2.1.10 The assessment group used the adjusted models to compare the 3 newer drugs with streptokinase. For each comparison, the additional benefit (using QALYs) of the newer thrombolytic was small, while the additional cost was substantial. The cost differences between the newer drugs are relatively small. The most reliable finding is that streptokinase is by far the cheapest drug and although it is a little less effective (in terms of discounted QALYs), it is the most cost effective. 4.2.1.11 Using the adjusted manufacturers' models, the incremental costs per QALY reported for the 3 drugs compared with streptokinase were: accelerated alteplase, £7,219 (adjusted Boehringer Ingelheim model) and £7,878 (adjusted Roche model); reteplase, £7,893 and £10,247; and tenecteplase, £8,321 and £9,509. However, these cost–utility rankings of the 3 drugs relative to streptokinase are sensitive to changes in assumptions in the models, and so are not conclusive. 4.2.2 Pre-hospital thrombolysis 4.2.2.1 No published articles examining the cost effectiveness of different thrombolytic drugs in pre-hospital settings were found. 4.2.2.2 There is a published economic analysis of the GREAT study comparing cost effectiveness of pre-hospital and in-hospital thrombolysis (that is, the cost effectiveness of the different drugs), which found that pre-hospital delivery had an incremental cost per
