Guidance on the use of drugs for early thrombolysis in the treatment of acute myocardial
KEYWORDS: drugs, streptokinase, alteplase, thrombolysis, thrombolytic, pre-hospital, reteplase, accelerated, hospital, tenecteplase, accelerated alteplase, cost, mortality, committee, patients


the GREAT study comparing cost effectiveness of pre-hospital and in-hospital thrombolysis (that is, the cost effectiveness of the different drugs), which found that pre-hospital delivery had an incremental cost per life saved of £3,890. The sensitivity analysis found that the cost per life saved could increase to £88,000. It should also be borne in mind that the benefits found in the GREAT trial were larger than those found in other studies, the economic analysis was not undertaken alongside the trial, the interventions were not described in detail, and the model of rural Scottish general practitioner care is unlikely to be applicable throughout the NHS in England and Wales. 4.2.2.3 In the pre-hospital setting, Roche's model assumes that reteplase and tenecteplase have equivalent efficacy and that reteplase is slightly cheaper. The Boehringer Ingelheim model finds that tenecteplase dominates reteplase in pre- hospital settings (that is, it has a lower cost and greater effectiveness). 4.2.2.4 Building on the conclusions about in-hospital cost effectiveness, and since the general pre-hospital delivery costs for the 2 suitable bolus drugs (reteplase and tenecteplase) would be the same, the relative cost effectiveness of the drugs in pre-hospital settings is likely to be similar to that in hospital (assuming equal effectiveness of both drugs in each setting). On this basis it was concluded that it was not possible to distinguish between reteplase and tenecteplase on grounds of cost effectiveness in pre-hospital settings. 4.3 Consideration of the evidence 4.3.1 In-hospital thrombolysis 4.3.1.1 The committee noted the debate over the applicability of the findings of GUSTO-I beyond the North American centres (where most of the benefit of alteplase over streptokinase was found). The committee considered that the efficacy of accelerated alteplase should not be determined solely from the results of the GUSTO-I trial. 4.3.1.2 Despite concerns over the interpretation of GUSTO-I, the committee concluded that it was likely that the newer thrombolytic agents are more effective than streptokinase in terms of 30-day mortality. 4.3.1.3 The committee was aware of the documented higher rates of stroke associated with the newer agents and carefully considered the views of clinical experts on this issue. 4.3.1.4 The committee considered that differences in the benefit of one thrombolytic agent over another are less clear if the combination of mortality and stroke endpoints are taken into account, particularly for subgroups at higher risk of haemorrhagic stroke. Furthermore, when considering the combination of mortality and stroke endpoints,
