Guidance on the use of drugs for early thrombolysis in the treatment of acute myocardial
KEYWORDS: drugs, streptokinase, alteplase, thrombolysis, thrombolytic, pre-hospital, reteplase, accelerated, hospital, tenecteplase, accelerated alteplase, cost, mortality, committee, patients


the combination of mortality and stroke endpoints are taken into account, particularly for subgroups at higher risk of haemorrhagic stroke. Furthermore, when considering the combination of mortality and stroke endpoints, it could be argued that the differences in overall benefit are less clear, particularly for subgroups at higher risk of developing haemorrhagic stroke. 4.3.1.5 In taking the view that the use of streptokinase is cost effective, the committee concluded that, although the acquisition cost of each of the newer drugs is substantially higher than that of streptokinase, the available economic evidence demonstrates that the newer drugs have an acceptable incremental cost- effectiveness ratio when compared with streptokinase. 4.3.1.6 Given that streptokinase is associated with a lower risk of stroke and is a cost- effective drug, the committee also considered it appropriate that all of the available thrombolytic drugs should be considered as options for use in care pathways for AMI. Local organisational and clinical policy considerations, such as proximity of CCU facilities and A&E staffing, will also have an impact on decisions regarding the appropriate use of each of the drugs in hospital. 4.3.1.7 Because the drugs will have different risk–benefit profiles for individual patients, the committee concluded that the decision about which of the available drugs to use should be made after balancing the likelihood of the benefits and risks (for example, stroke) to which the different drugs would expose the individual. 4.3.1.8 The committee took into account the potential importance of the methods of administration of the different thrombolytics and their effect on door-to-needle times. However, the impact of this factor on reducing myocardial damage and important clinical outcomes was very dependent on the overall pain-to-needle time. Thus, a saving of a few minutes in the door-to-needle time was likely to have a much greater impact on these endpoints where the pain-to-needle time was 1 hour compared with the situation where the pain-to-needle time was 6 hours. 4.3.2 Pre-hospital thrombolysis 4.3.2.1 The committee noted that while there is observational evidence to support pre- hospital thrombolysis, applying the results to the current NHS context is difficult, in that a minority used currently available bolus drugs, most are not paramedic based, and none was reliably generalisable to England and Wales. 4.3.2.2 In the absence of comparative evidence on thrombolytics in pre-hospital settings, the committee considered that the findings of trials comparing different thrombolytic drugs in hospital could still reasonably be
