Guidance on the use of drugs for early thrombolysis in the treatment of acute myocardial
KEYWORDS: drugs, streptokinase, alteplase, thrombolysis, thrombolytic, pre-hospital, reteplase, accelerated, hospital, tenecteplase, accelerated alteplase, cost, mortality, committee, patients


guidance can be made, based on possible patterns of hospital prescribing of the alternative available drugs. 6.4 Assuming that the current overall level of thrombolytic therapy remains unchanged, if streptokinase represented 20% of thrombolytic drugs prescribed, alteplase 10%, and reteplase and teneteplase each accounted for 35%, then the total annual spending on thrombolytic drugs in England and Wales would be between £27 million and £45 million. If these levels were assumed to be 35%, 20% and 22.5% respectively, then the total would be between £22 million and £36 million. 6.5 In addition, substantial costs are associated with the introduction of pre-hospital thrombolysis. These include the costs of additional equipment, training, and potentially longer ambulance time spent treating patients with AMI. Also, any expansion of pre-hospital thrombolysis would result in a shift of drug costs from acute hospital trusts to other services such as ambulance trusts or primary care trusts and, potentially, result in an increase in total local spending on thrombolytic drugs where bolus drugs were not widely used in hospital. Such costs are difficult to estimate usefully on the basis of the information available to NICE at the time of this appraisal. 7 Implementation 7.1 Section 7 of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (Constitution and Functions) and the Health and Social Care Information Centre (Functions) Regulations 2013 requires integrated care boards, NHS England and, with respect to their public health functions, local authorities to comply with the recommendations in this evaluation within 90 days of its date of publication. 7.2 The Welsh ministers have issued directions to the NHS in Wales on implementing NICE technology appraisal guidance. When a NICE technology appraisal guidance recommends the use of a drug or treatment, or other technology, the NHS in Wales must usually provide funding and resources for it within 2 months of the first publication of the final draft guidance. 7.3 When NICE recommends a treatment 'as an option', the NHS must make sure it is available within the period set out in the paragraphs above. This means that, if a patient has acute myocardial infarction and the healthcare professional responsible for their care thinks that alteplase, reteplase, streptokinase or tenecteplase are the right treatment, they should be available for use, in line with NICE's recommendations. 8 Appraisal committee members The appraisal committee is a standing advisory committee of NICE. Its members are appointed for a 3-year term.
