Guidance on the use of drugs for early thrombolysis in the treatment of acute myocardial
KEYWORDS: drugs, streptokinase, alteplase, thrombolysis, thrombolytic, pre-hospital, reteplase, accelerated, hospital, tenecteplase, accelerated alteplase, cost, mortality, committee, patients


available for use, in line with NICE's recommendations. 8 Appraisal committee members The appraisal committee is a standing advisory committee of NICE. Its members are appointed for a 3-year term. A list of the committee members who took part in the discussions for this appraisal appears below. The appraisal committee meets 3 times a month except in December, when there are no meetings. The committee membership is split into 3 branches, with the chair, vice-chair and a number of other members between them attending meetings of all branches. Each branch considers its own list of technologies and ongoing topics are not moved between the branches. Committee members are asked to declare any interests in the technology to be appraised. If it is considered there is a conflict of interest, the member is excluded from participating further in that appraisal. The minutes of each appraisal committee meeting, which include the names of the members who attended and their declarations interests, are posted on the NICE website. Dr Jane Adam Radiologist, St. George's Hospital, London Professor RL Akehurst Dean, School of Health Related Research, Sheffield University Dr Sunil Angris General Practitioner, Waterhouses Medical Practice Professor David Barnett (Chairman) Professor of Clinical Pharmacology, University of Leicester Dr Sheila Bird MRC Biostatistics Unit, Cambridge Professor Carol Black Consultant Physician, Royal Free Hospital & UCL, London Professor John Brazier Health Economist, University of Sheffield Professor Martin Buxton Director of Health Economics Research Group, Brunel University Professor Mike Campbell Statistician, Institute of General Practice & Primary Care, Sheffield Dr Karl Claxton Health Economist, University of York Professor Sarah Cowley Professor of Community Practice Development, Kings College, London Professor Jack Dowie Health Economist, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, London Mr Chris Evennett Chief Executive, Mid-Hampshire Primary Care Group Dr Paul Ewings Statistician, Taunton & Somerset NHS Trust Professor Terry Feest Clinical Director and Consultant Nephrologist, Richard Bright Renal Unit, and Chairman of the UK Renal Registry Professor Gary A Ford Professor of Pharmacology of Old Age/ Consultant Physician, Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Trust Mrs Sue Gallagher Chief Executive, Merton, Sutton and Wandsworth Health Authority Dr Trevor Gibbs Head, Global Clinical Safety & Pharmacovigilance, GlaxoSmithKline Sally Gooch Director of Nursing, Mid-Essex Hospital Services Trust Mr John Goulston Director of Finance, The Royal Free Hampstead NHS Trust Professor Trisha Greenhalgh Professor of Primary Health Care, University College London Miss Linda Hands Consultant Vascular Surgeon, John Radcliffe
