Genetic Defects in Thyroid Hormone Supply
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hypothyroidism, congenital, mutations, congenital hypothyroidism, patients, gene, endocrinol, hormone, tsh, mutation, screening, clin, pituitary, endocrinol metab


girls for each boy [11]. Familial cases occur with a frequency that is 15-fold higher than by chance alone [12]. The genetic basis of these familial cases has been established in some, but not all pedigrees [13]. An increased prevalence of the disease is reported in twins [14], with approximately 12 fold increased incidence compared to singletons, even if a discordance rate of 92% between monozygotic (MZ) twins has been observed [15]. The incidence of CH differs significantly among different ethnicities and regions, ranging from 1 in 30,000 in the African-American population in the United States [16, 17] to 1 in 900 in Asian populations in the United Kingdom [18]. CLINICAL MANIFESTATIONS In absence of an adequate treatment, severe CH results in serious mental retardation, in motor handicaps as well as in the signs and symptoms of impaired metabolism. Before the introduction of a neonatal screening program, congenital hypothyroidism was one of the most frequent causes of mental retardation. The clinically detectable consequences of CH strongly depend on severity and duration of thyroid hormone deprivation, but there is also a large individual variability in treatment response. In the first four-six months after birth, only untreated patients with severe CH have clinical manifestations. Milder cases can remain undiscovered for years. Clinical features of CH are subtle and non-specific during the neonatal period due in part to the passage of maternal thyroid hormone across the placenta; however, early symptoms may include: Decreased activity Wide posterior fontanel Poor feeding and weight gain Small stature or poor growth Long-term jaundice Decreased stooling or constipation Hypotonia Hoarse cry Coarse facial features Macroglossia Umbilical hernia Developmental delay Pallor Myxedema Goiter Infants with congenital hypothyroidism are usually born at term or after term. Infants with obvious findings of hypothyroidism (eg, macroglossia, enlarged fontanelle, hypotonia) at the time of diagnosis have intelligence quotients (IQs) 10-20 points lower than infants without such findings. Often, they are described as "good babies" because they rarely cry and sleep most of the time. Anemia may occur, due to decreased oxygen carrying requirement. The accumulation of subcutaneous fluid (intracellularly and extracellularly) is usually more pronounced in patients with primary (thyroid) hypothyroidism than in those with pituitary hypothyroidism. Thickening of the lips and macroglossia is due to increased accumulation of subcutaneous mucopolysaccharides (i.e., glycosaminoglycans). Alteration of the mandibular second molars may be the consequence of long-term effects of severe hypothyroidism on craniofacial growth and
