Genetic Defects in Thyroid Hormone Supply
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hypothyroidism, congenital, mutations, congenital hypothyroidism, patients, gene, endocrinol, hormone, tsh, mutation, screening, clin, pituitary, endocrinol metab


Recently, some countries have developed screening methods measuring both T4 and TSH on the same blood spot simultaneously or stepwise (“T4+TSH-method”). These methods allowed also the identification of CCH [29-31], however it should be noted that low T4 and normal TSH can be also associated with thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG) deficiency, a laboratory condition that requires no treatment. Discriminate between these two conditions is crucial [32] and measurements of circulating TBG or other tests may be necessary [33]. In the past years, the diagnosis of primary CH was made when serum TSH was ≥10 mIU/mL, regardless of the T4 concentration. A recent retrospective study including children screened from 2003 to 2010, showed that 9.13% of the children with b-TSH levels between 5 and 10 mIU/mL also developed hypothyroidism [34]. Indeed, the authors suggested to reduce the cut-off for b-TSH to 5 mIU/mL. The lower cut-off levels allowed the identification of undiagnosed CH cases, however determined significant increases in the number of children to recall, leaded to higher costs of the screening and generated anxiety in parents and relatives of healthy babies [35]. Despite these problems, the usage of lower TSH cut-off has also been proposed in several other studies [36-38]. ADDITIONAL TESTS FOR DIAGNOSIS When the TSH concentration on a dried blood spot exceeds the established threshold, additional studies can be performed to obtain diagnostic confirmation end etiological definition of CH. If these studies will determine a delay in the beginning of the treatment, they should be performed later during the babies life. Tests commonly used to determine the underlying cause of congenital hypothyroidism are presented in Table 2. - Thyroid scintigraphy, with 99m technetium or 123 I, is the most informative diagnostic procedure in patients with thyroid dysgenesis [39, 40] providing etiologic diagnosis, as in alteration in the iodine transporter (NIS) [40]. If the radioisotope uptake has not been performed at birth, it is necessary performed this imaging screening after 3 years of age, when the T4 treatment interruption does not compromise the neurocognitive development of the child [31]. Recently it has been suggested that intramuscular injections of recombinant human TSH can be useful to perform 123 I - uptake studies during L-thyroxine treatment in CH patients [41, 42]. - Ultrasound represents the gold standard for measuring thyroid dimensions, but lacks sensitivity for detecting small glands and it is less accurate than scintigraphy in showing ectopic glands [43]. Moreover, visualization
