Genetic Defects in Thyroid Hormone Supply
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hypothyroidism, congenital, mutations, congenital hypothyroidism, patients, gene, endocrinol, hormone, tsh, mutation, screening, clin, pituitary, endocrinol metab


Ultrasound represents the gold standard for measuring thyroid dimensions, but lacks sensitivity for detecting small glands and it is less accurate than scintigraphy in showing ectopic glands [43]. Moreover, visualization of neonatal thyroid on ultrasound may be challenging for unexperienced sonographists [44]. More than 80% of newborn infants with TSH elevation can be diagnosed correctly on initial imaging with combined radioisotope scan and ultrasound. - Assay of serum thyroglobulin (Tg) will be useful in to establish the presence of some thyroid tissue. - More specialized tests, such as perchlorate discharge, evaluation of serum, salivary, and urinary radioiodine [45], and measurement of serum T 4 precursors, may be necessary to delineate specific inborn errors of thyroid hormone biosynthesis [46]. - When both the maternal and fetal thyroid glands are compromised, significant cognitive delay can occur despite early and aggressive postnatal therapy. Maternal thyrotropin-stimulating hormone receptor (TSHR)-blocking antibodies (Abs) can be transmitted to the fetus and cause combined maternal-fetal hypothyroidism. Measurement of TSHR Abs is necessary to establish the diagnosis; the presence of other thyroid Abs is insufficiently sensitive and may miss some cases [47]. - The measurement of the total urinary iodine excretion differentiates inborn errors from acquired transient forms of hypothyroidism due to iodine deficiency or iodine excess. - A small number of infants with abnormal screening values will have transient hypothyroidism as demonstrated by normal serum T 4 and TSH concentrations at the conﬁrmatory laboratory tests. Transient hypothyroidism is more frequent in iodine-deﬁcient areas and it is much more common in preterm infants. CH can also be the consequence of intrauterine exposure to maternal antithyroid drugs, maternal TSHR-blocking antibodies (TSHRBAb), as well as heterozygous DUOX1 and DUOX2 or TSHR germ-line mutations [48, 49]. Because the transient nature of the hypothyroidism will not be recognized clinically or through laboratory tests, initial treatment will be similar to that of the infant with permanent CH, however at a later age interruption of therapy allows to distinguish transient from permanent hypothyroidism [50]. Genetic classification of congenital thyroid diseases 1. Central hypothyroidism Congenital central hypothyroidism (CCH) is a rare disease in which thyroid hormone deficiency is caused by insufficient thyrotropin (TSH) stimulation of a normally-located thyroid gland. Patients with this disorder cannot be identified by neonatal screening program based on the measurement of TSH alone, while combined assay of T4 and TSH will allow the identification of patients with CCH [29, 32, 51]. Initially
