Genetic Defects in Thyroid Hormone Supply
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hypothyroidism, congenital, mutations, congenital hypothyroidism, patients, gene, endocrinol, hormone, tsh, mutation, screening, clin, pituitary, endocrinol metab


by neonatal screening program based on the measurement of TSH alone, while combined assay of T4 and TSH will allow the identification of patients with CCH [29, 32, 51]. Initially the incidence was estimated between 1:29.000 and 1:110.000 [52-54], while the more recent study from the Netherlands suggests that it may occur in 1:16.000 newborns, representing up to 13% of cases of permanent congenital hypothyroidism [55, 56]. So far, rare genetic defects have been identified in patients affected by CCH. The disorder can be caused by mutations in genes involved in pituitary development such as POU1F1 , PROP1 , HESX1 , LHX3 , LHX4 and SOX3 . In these cases, central hypothyroidism does not occur in isolation, but is one of the evolving pituitary hormone deficiencies [57]. In contrast, the isolated CCH is determined by mutations in genes specific to the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis such as: TSHB (encoding the B-subunit of the TSH glycoprotein hormone), TRHR (the specific 7-transmembrane domain receptor for hypothalamic thyrotropin-releasing hormone [58]), IGSF1 (a protein regulating the expression of TRHR in pituitary thyrotropes) [59], and the recently identified TBL1X (a subunit of the NCoR-SMRT complex) [60]. 1.1 Developmental defects of the pituitary The pituitary gland is formed from an invagination of the floor of the third ventricle and from Rathke’s pouch, developing into the thyrotropic cell lineage and the four other neuroendocrine cell types, each defined by the hormone produced: TSH, growth hormone (GH), prolactin, gonadotropins (luteinizing hormone [57] and follicle-stimulating hormone [61]), and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). The ontogeny of the pituitary gland depends on numerous developmental genes that guide differentiation and proliferation. These genes are highly conserved among species, suggesting crucial evolutionary roles for the proteins (PIT1 and PRPO1, HESX1, LHX3, LHX4 and SOX3). Lhx3 and Lhx4 belong to the LIM family of homeobox genes that are expressed early in Rathke’s pouch. In Lhx3 knockout mice the thyrotropes, somatotropes, lactotropes, and gonadotropes cell lineages are depleted, whereas the adrenocorticotropic cell lineage fails to proliferate. This murine knock out model shows that pituitary organ fate commitment depends on Lhx3. Lhx4 null mutants show Rathke’s pouch formation with expression of a glycoprotein subunit, TSH-beta, GH and Pit1 transcripts, although cell numbers are reduced. In humans, homozygous or compound heterozygous carriers of LHX3 mutations present with combined pituitary hormone deficiency diseases and cervical abnormalities with or without restricted neck rotation. Some patients also present with sensorineural hearing loss. Mutations
