Genetic Defects in Thyroid Hormone Supply
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hypothyroidism, congenital, mutations, congenital hypothyroidism, patients, gene, endocrinol, hormone, tsh, mutation, screening, clin, pituitary, endocrinol metab


heterozygous carriers of LHX3 mutations present with combined pituitary hormone deficiency diseases and cervical abnormalities with or without restricted neck rotation. Some patients also present with sensorineural hearing loss. Mutations can also be frameshift or splicing anomalies. In addition, the heterozygous carriers of a dominant negative LHX3 mutation are characterized by limited rotation of the neck. Patients with heterozygous missense or frameshift mutations in LHX4 have variable phenotypes, including GH disease and variable TSH, gonadotropin and ACTH deficiencies with a hypoplastic anterior pituitary, with or without an ectopic posterior pituitary [62, 63]. Hesx1 (also called Rpx ), a member of the paired-like class of homeobox genes, is one of the earliest markers of the pituitary primordium [64]. Extinction of Hesx1 is important for activation of downstream genes such as Prop1 , suggesting that the proteins act as opposing transcription factors [65]. Targeted disruption of Hesx1 in the mouse revealed a reduction in the prospective forebrain tissue, absent optic vesicles, markedly decreased head size, and severe microphthalmia. A similar phenotype it has been observed in patients with the syndrome of septo-optic dysplasia (SOD). SOD is a complex and highly variable disorder, diagnosed in the presence of: 1) optic nerve hypoplasia, 2) midline neuroradiologic abnormalities and/or 3) anterior pituitary hypoplasia with consequent hypopituitarism [62]. The number of genetic factors implicated in this condition is increasing and currently includes HESX1, OTX2, SOX2 and SOX3 . These genes are expressed very early in forebrain and pituitary development and so it is not surprising that mutations affecting these genes can induce the SOD disorders. Very recently Sonic hedgehog (Shh) has been associated to SOD, since mouse embryos lacking in the gene exhibit key features of the disease, including pituitary hypoplasia and absence of the optic disc [66]. The human HESX1 gene maps to chromosome 3p21.1–3p21.2, and its coding region spans 1.7 Kb, with a highly conserved genomic organization consisting of four coding exons. The ﬁrst homozygous missense mutation (Arg160Cys) was found in the homeobox of HESX1 in two siblings with SOD [64]. Subsequently several other homozygous and heterozygous mutations have been shown to present with different phenotypes characterized by pituitary hormone deficiency and SOD [65, 67]. 1.2 Defects in the TRH and TRH receptor The TRH receptor (TRHR) is a G-protein- coupled receptor located at pituitary thyrotropes and activated by hypothalamic TRH. The synthesis, secretion, and bioactivity of TSH necessary for following production of thyroid
