Genetic Defects in Thyroid Hormone Supply
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hypothyroidism, congenital, mutations, congenital hypothyroidism, patients, gene, endocrinol, hormone, tsh, mutation, screening, clin, pituitary, endocrinol metab


TRH receptor (TRHR) is a G-protein- coupled receptor located at pituitary thyrotropes and activated by hypothalamic TRH. The synthesis, secretion, and bioactivity of TSH necessary for following production of thyroid hormones, depend by TRH-TRHR signaling [59]. In mice, homozygous deletion of the TRH gene produced a phenotype characterized by hypothyroidism and hyperglycemia [68]. Only a few patients with reduced TRH production have been described in the literature [69, 70], but no human mutations have been identified so far. Mice lacking the TRH receptor appear almost normal, with some growth retardation, and decreased serum T 3 , T 4 , and prolactin (PRL) levels but normal serum TSH [71]. So far, four mutations in TRHR gene were identified in human. In the first case, the patient was a compound heterozygote for an early stop codon (p.R17X) and an in-frame deletion added to a missense change (p.S115- T117del + p.A118T) in the other allele [58]. The same p.R17X mutation was found also in the second patient in homozygous state [72], whereas the third exhibited a homozygous missense mutation (p.P81R) [73]. More recently has been identified in a consaguineous family a homozygous missense mutation (c.392T>C; p.I131T) located at a highly conserved hydrophobic position of G-protein-coupled receptor, which reduces the affinity for TRH, compromising the signal trasduction [74]. The same mutation, was present in the mother, two brothers and grandmother, but in heterozygous status leading to isolated hyperthyrotropinemia. 1.3 Defects in Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone (TSH) synthesis The thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) is produced and secreted by the thyrotrophic cells of the anterior pituitary gland and it is the classic ligand for the TSH receptor (TSHR) in the thyroid. TSH is a heterodimeric glycoprotein consisting of an α subunit and β subunit, The α subunit is shared with other glycoprotein hormones (i.e. follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH), and chorionic gonadotropin (CG)), whereas the TSHβ subunit is unique, determining the specificity of TSH. The beta-subunit (gene map locus 1p13) synthesis is under the control of several transcription factors, including POU1F1 and PROP1. Pit1/POU1F1 Pit1 (called POU1F1 in humans) is a pituitary-speciﬁc transcription factor belonging to the POU homeodomain family. The human POU1F1 maps to chromosome 3p11 and consists of six exons spanning 17 Kb encoding a 291 aminoacid protein. Identified mutations of the POU1F1 gene in human result in combined pituitary hormone deficiency (CPHD) with an incidence between 38% and 77% in unselected cohorts, and between
