Genetic Defects in Thyroid Hormone Supply
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hypothyroidism, congenital, mutations, congenital hypothyroidism, patients, gene, endocrinol, hormone, tsh, mutation, screening, clin, pituitary, endocrinol metab


291 aminoacid protein. Identified mutations of the POU1F1 gene in human result in combined pituitary hormone deficiency (CPHD) with an incidence between 38% and 77% in unselected cohorts, and between 25% and 52% in patients with a family history of CPHD. To date, several recessive and six dominant POU1F1 gene mutations have been described in CPHD patients and include missense, nonsense, frameshift, whole gene deletion and two mutations that result in the mis-splicing of the pre-mRNA [75, 76]. Deﬁciency of GH, prolactin and TSH is generally severe in patients harbouring mutations in POU1F1 . The patients are often affected by extreme short stature, learning difficulties, and anterior pituitary hypoplasia [76]. PROP1 Prop1 (Prophet of Pit1) is a pituitary-speciﬁc paired-like homeodomain transcription factor required for the expression of Pit1 , and transcriptional activator to stimulate pituitary cell differentiation. Dwarf mice, harboring a homozygous missense mutation in Prop1 , exhibit GH, TSH and prolactin deﬁciency, and an anterior pituitary gland reduced in size by about 50%. Additionally, these mice have reduced gonadotropin expression [77]. The human PROP1 maps to chromosome 5q. The gene consists of three exons encoding for a 226 aminoacids protein. After the first report of mutations in PROP1 in four unrelated pedigrees with GH, TSH, prolactin, LH and FSH deﬁciencies [78], several distinct mutations have been identiﬁed in over 170 patients [65], suggesting that mutations in PROP1 are the most prevalent cause of multiple pituitary hormone deficiency, accounting for up to 50% of familial cases, although the incidence of PROP1 mutations is much lower in sporadic cases [62]. Affected individuals exhibit recessive inheritance [67]. The timing of initiation and the severity of hormonal deﬁciency in patients with PROP1 mutations is highly variable: diagnosis of GH deficiency preceded that of TSH deficiency in 80%. Following the deficiencies in GH and TSH, there is a reduced fertility due to gonadotropin insufficiency. Although most patients fail to enter puberty spontaneously, some start puberty before deficiencies in LH and FSH evolve. ACTH deficiency is a relatively late manifestation of PROP1 mutation, often evolving several decades after birth. The degree of prolactin deficiency and pituitary morphological alterations are variable [65]. 1.4 Structural Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone defects Mutation in the TSH-beta gene are a rare cause of congenital hypothyroidism. Available data have been reviewed by Miyai [79, 80]. Several mutations in TSHB gene were identified in the last years, including missense, non-sense, frameshift and splice-site. The
