Genetic Defects in Thyroid Hormone Supply
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hypothyroidism, congenital, mutations, congenital hypothyroidism, patients, gene, endocrinol, hormone, tsh, mutation, screening, clin, pituitary, endocrinol metab


of congenital hypothyroidism. Available data have been reviewed by Miyai [79, 80]. Several mutations in TSHB gene were identified in the last years, including missense, non-sense, frameshift and splice-site. The most commonly reported mutation is the C105Vfs114X mutation, located on exon 3 of the TSHB gene, and firstly described in 1996 [81]. In all the reported cases, the mutations were homozygous or compound heterozygous. So far, no genotype-phenotype correlation has been reported. The patients present all clinical sign of hypothyroidism, and the severity of the pathology depend by start of treatment. Very recently [82], direct sequencing of the coding region of the TSHB gene revealed two homozygous nucleotide changes. The first C.40A>G (rs10776792) is a recurrent alteration that can also be found in healthy individuals. The other variation was c.94G>A at codon 32 of exon 2, which results in a change of glutamic acid to lysine (p.E32K). For both variations, both patients were homozygous and the parents were heterozygous. 1.5 Deficiency of immunoglobulin superfamily member 1 ( IGSF1 ) IGSF1 is a plasma membrane immunoglobulin superfamily glycoprotein [83, 84]. Human IGSF1 and murine Igsf1 mRNAs are highly expressed in Rathke’s pouch and in adult pituitary gland and testis. Moreover, IGSF1 protein is expressed in murine thyrotropes, somatotropes, and lactotropes, but not in gonadotropes or in the testis [85]. Igsf1 knockout mice showed no alternation of follicle stimulating hormone synthesis or secretion, and normal fertility [61]. The physiological role of IGSF1 is unknown, but it’s lack is responsible for a variety of symptoms such as hypothyroidism, prolactin deficiency, macroorchidism and delayed puberty. IGSF1 is important for the pituitary-thyroid axis and the development puberty and thus represents a new player controlling growth and puberty in childhood and adolescence. So far, 10 distinct IGSF1 mutations have been described in 26 patients [85], one deletion in male patient [86], and other six mutations have been identified in Japanese subjects [87-90]. Recently, a novel insertion mutation, c.2284_2285insA [91], has been discovered by whole-exome sequencing in three siblings affected by mild neurological phenotype. The mutations included in-frame deletions, single nucleotide deletions, nonsense mutations, missense mutations and one single-base duplication. In vitro expression studies of several mutations done to analyze the functional consequences demonstrated that the encoded proteins migrated predominantly as immature glycoforms and were largely retained in the endoplasmic reticulum, resulting in decreased membrane expression [85]. It is likely that there is no clear genotype-phenotype correlation.
