Genetic Defects in Thyroid Hormone Supply
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hypothyroidism, congenital, mutations, congenital hypothyroidism, patients, gene, endocrinol, hormone, tsh, mutation, screening, clin, pituitary, endocrinol metab


proteins migrated predominantly as immature glycoforms and were largely retained in the endoplasmic reticulum, resulting in decreased membrane expression [85]. It is likely that there is no clear genotype-phenotype correlation. Even in familial cases sharing the same IGSF1 defects, a variable degree of hypothyroidism was observed [85, 92]. Other genetic or environmental factors may influence the phenotypic expression of IGSF1 deficiency. 1.6 TBLX1 TBL1X, transducin β-like protein 1 X-linked, is a part of the nuclear receptor corepressor (NCoR)-silencing mediator for retinoid and thyroid hormone receptors (SMRT) complex. In mice, the reduction of TH synthesis can be caused by disruption of NCoR, while the peripheral sensitivity to TH increases [93]. Initially, TBL1X gene mutations in humans were associated to hearing loss [94], but not to CCH, but Heinen & co recently identified six novel missense mutations in eight patients diagnosed with isolated CCH and hearing defects [60]. Functional studies demonstrated that the mutations cause an aberrant protein folding and stability, altering the structural and functional properties of TBLX1. 2. Alterations of thyroid morphogenesis (thyroid dysgenesis) Thyroid dysgenesis (TD) is the most frequent form (~ 75%) of primary permanent congenital hypothyroidism (CH). TD includes several disorders caused by errors during thyroid development, such as athyreosis (absent gland), hypoplasia (reduced gland) or ectopy (gland located in aberrant position) [46]. The most critical events in thyroid organogenesis occur during the first 60 days of gestation in man and the first 15 days in mice. It is likely that alterations in the molecular events occurring during this period can be associated to TD. Studies on thyroid development in normal and mutated mouse embryos indicate that the simultaneous presence of Pax8 , Nkx2-1 , Foxe1 , and Hhex is required for thyroid morphogenesis. Indeed, thyroid dysgenesis is present in animal models with mutations in these genes, and mutations in the same genes have been identified in patients with congenital hypothyroidism associated with TD. 2.1 Athyreosis Athyreosis is the absence of thyroid follicular cells (TFC) in orthotopic or ectopic location. This condition can either be the consequence of lack of formation of the thyroid bud or results from alterations in any of the step following the specification of the thyroid bud and determining a defective survival and/or proliferation of the precursors of the TFC. In athyreotic patients, the presence of cystic structures resulting from the persistence of remnants of the thyroglossal duct is frequently reported. This finding
