Genetic Defects in Thyroid Hormone Supply
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hypothyroidism, congenital, mutations, congenital hypothyroidism, patients, gene, endocrinol, hormone, tsh, mutation, screening, clin, pituitary, endocrinol metab


proliferation of the precursors of the TFC. In athyreotic patients, the presence of cystic structures resulting from the persistence of remnants of the thyroglossal duct is frequently reported. This finding indicates that in these subjects some of the early events of thyroid morphogenesis have taken place but the cells fated to form the TFCs either did not survive or switched to a different fate . In many cases, scintigraphy failed to demonstrate the presence of thyroid tissue, but thyroid scanning by ultrasound reveals a very hypoplastic thyroid gland. So far, the absence of thyroid was reported in 3 patients with CH associated to FOXE1 gene defects (Bamforth-Lazarus syndrome) (p.S57N, p.A65V, and p.N132D), in four subjects carrying a mutation in PAX8 , in two patients with NKX2-1 mutation, in two patients with NKX2-5 mutation [8, 95] and in one patient with both a heterozygous NKX2-5 mutation and a heterozygous mutation in the PAX8 promoter region [96]. Recently, mutational screening in TSHR , NKX2.1 , in FOXE1 , in NKX2.5 and in PAX8 was performed in 100 Chinese subjects affected by thyroid athyreosis [97]. Several mutations have been identified, but the most of them were previously reported and the bioinformatics analysis suggested they were benign with no clinical relevance. Only the TSHR variants have been suggested to have deleterious effects by in silico analysis. 2.2 Ectopic thyroid The ectopic thyroid is the consequence of a failure in the descent of the developing thyroid from the thyroid anlage region to its definitive location in front of the trachea. In the majority of cases, the ectopic thyroid appears as a mass in the back of the tongue (lingual thyroid, usually functioning). Sublingual ectopic tissues are less frequent; in this case, thyroid tissue is present in a midline position above, below or at the level of the hyoid bone. Ectopic thyroid tissues within the trachea or thyroid tissue in the submandibular region have also been reported. The thyroid ectopy is the most common spectrum of thyroid dysgenesis, occurring in up 80% of CH caused by TD, but only the 3% of CH cases are explained by inherited mutation in the gene involved in thyroid development. To date, mutational analysis performed in several countries, demonstrated the presence of mutation in patients with thyroid ectopy in NKX 2-5 gene (p.R25C, p.A119S, p.R161P), FOXE 1 (p.R102C) and PAX 8 (p.R108X, p. T225M, p.R31H) [8, 23]. Monozygotic (MZ) twins
