Genetic Defects in Thyroid Hormone Supply
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hypothyroidism, congenital, mutations, congenital hypothyroidism, patients, gene, endocrinol, hormone, tsh, mutation, screening, clin, pituitary, endocrinol metab


the NKX2.1 gene have been identified [103]. Interestingly, not all mutational carriers display the full phenotype of BLTS but have only involvement of two or even one part of the syndrome. Very recently, Hermanns &co [104] described a patient affected by TD with hypoplastic thyroid gland, respiratory disease and cerebral palsy who presented mutations in both PAX8 (p.E234K) and NKX2.1 (p.A329GfsX108) genes. Functional studies demonstrated no transcriptional activity or DNA-binding of NKX2.1 mutant protein. Contrary the PAX8 mutant protein was normally located into the nucleus, and has no functional impairment. These results confirm the role of NKX2.1 mutant protein in the manifestation of the BTLS phenotype and suggest that other molecular mechanisms could be causative of the disease. NKX2.5 was recently found mutated in patients affected by thyroid hypoplasia and no cardiovascular defects [105]. Both these mutations (c.73C>T and c.63A>G) were previously described [106, 107]. The c.73C>T was found in patients affected by thyroid ectopy and without congenital heart defects [107] and showed a deficiency in dimer formation without effects on the DNA binding capacity. The c.63A>G did is a silent mutation that determines no changes in the aminoacid sequence. It has been reported in a patients with thyroid hypoplasia [108] but also in healthy controls [105]. The involvement of PAX8 has been described in sporadic and familial cases of CH with thyroid hypoplasia [109-111]. All affected individuals are heterozygous for the mutations and autosomal dominant transmission with incomplete penetrance and variable expressivity has been described for the familial cases. In vitro transfection assays demonstrated that the mutated proteins are unable to bind DNA and to drive transcription of the TPO promoter. By NGS analysis performed in a cohort of 11 families, a heterozygous PAX8 (p.R31C) was identified in two siblings with CH and hypoplastic thyroid [112]. One of the patients also presented unilateral kidney agenesis. The mutation completely inactivates the activity of the transcription factor, as previously reported for the p.R31H [113, 114]. The frequent observation of mutation occurring in this aminoacid suggested that position 31 in the PAX8 protein can be a mutational hot spot. TSHR belongs to the G-protein coupled receptors superfamily. The gene encoding TSHR maps to chromosome 14q31 and to mouse chromosome 12. It consists in ten exons codify for a 764 aminoacid protein. The role of the TSHR in thyroid differentiation was first identified in Tshr hyt/hyt mice, affected by primary hypothyroidism with elevated
