Genetic Defects in Thyroid Hormone Supply
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hypothyroidism, congenital, mutations, congenital hypothyroidism, patients, gene, endocrinol, hormone, tsh, mutation, screening, clin, pituitary, endocrinol metab


in ten exons codify for a 764 aminoacid protein. The role of the TSHR in thyroid differentiation was first identified in Tshr hyt/hyt mice, affected by primary hypothyroidism with elevated TSH and hypoplastic thyroid, as a consequence of a loss of function mutation in the fourth transmembrane domain of TSHR (pro556Leu), which abolishes the cAMP response to TSH. Several patients with homozygous or compound heterozygous loss-of-function TSHR mutations have been reported. The disease, known as resistance to TSH (OMIM #275200) is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait, and patients are characterized by elevated serum TSH levels, absence of goiter with a normal or hypoplastic gland, and normal to very low serum levels of thyroid hormones. The clinical manifestations are very variable spanning from euthyroid hyperthyrotropinemia to severe hypothyroidism. A novel non-synonymous substitution was recently reported in the HinR of the large N-terminal extracellular domain of the TSHR gene in a patient with thyroid hypoplasia. Since this p.S304R TSHR variant does not affect the TSH binding nor the cAMP pathway activation, it was not possible to establish his role in the clinical phenotype [23]. 2.4 Hemiagenesis Thyroid hemiagenesis (THA) is a rare congenital abnormality, in which one thyroid lobe fails to develop. Thyroid hemiagenesis is often associated with mild and/or transient hypothyroidism but several patients were found to be euthyroid. The incidence of the disorder is estimated at 0.05–0.5% of the general population. THA occurs usually as an isolated feature, more frequently in women than in men. In the large majority of the cases, the left lobe is absent [115]. The molecular mechanisms leading to the formation of the two thyroid symmetrical lobes, which are impaired in the case of hemiagenesis, are still unclear and in humans. In contrast, Shh -/- mice embryos can display either a non-lobulated gland [116] or hemiagenesis of thyroid [117], and hemiagenesis of the thyroid is also frequent in mice double heterozygous Titf1 +/- , Pax8 +/- [118]. In the majority of patients with thyroid hemiagenesis, the genetic background remains unknown. Additionally, THA family members commonly present other thyroid developmental anomalies (i.e., thyroid agenesis, ectopy or thyroglossal duct cyst), suggesting a common genetic background for different thyroid developmental anomalies of the gland. Mutations in NKX2.1, PAX8 or FOXE 1 are rarely associated with THA. novel single nucleotide substitution in exon 2 of the PAX8 gene (c.162 A>T; p.S54C) was recently identified 13/16 members of a family
