Genetic Defects in Thyroid Hormone Supply
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hypothyroidism, congenital, mutations, congenital hypothyroidism, patients, gene, endocrinol, hormone, tsh, mutation, screening, clin, pituitary, endocrinol metab


or FOXE 1 are rarely associated with THA. novel single nucleotide substitution in exon 2 of the PAX8 gene (c.162 A>T; p.S54C) was recently identified 13/16 members of a family with hypothyroidism and variable phenotype (thyroid hemiagenesis to normal) [119]. FOXE1 contains within its coding sequence a polyalanine tract of variable length, ranging from 11 to 19 alanines [120]. Several studies have pointed to the potential role of FOXE1- polyAla length polymorphism in determining the susceptibility to TD [121-123]. Avery recent study, demonstrate the potential association between proteasome-related genes and THA. In a cohort of 34 sporadic patients and three families with THA several mutations have been identified in proteasome genes PSMA1, PSMA3, PSMD2, and PSMD3. The functional studies indicate that the mutations can lead to accumulation of undegraded protein aggregates and exert a toxic effect on the thyroid cell [124]. 2.5 Other genetics defects Recently, several other genes have been suggested to play a role in the pathogenesis of thyroid dysgenesis, including JAG1, GLIS3, CDCA8 or SLC26A4. 2.5.1 GLIS3 In a rare syndrome, CH can be associated to neonatal diabetes (NDH). These patients exhibit reduced T3 and T4 levels with elevated TSH and Tg. Patients additionally develop hyperglycemia and hypo-insulinemia. They often also presented polycystic kidney disease, hepatic fibrosis, glaucoma and mild mental retardation. Thyroid ultrasound and scintigraphy suggested athyreosis or hypoplasia. In most of the cases, the patients do not respond to conventional treatment and TSH remains elevated, despite normalization of serum T4 levels. This form has been associated to GLIS3 mutations [125, 126]. GLIS3 is a transcription factor containing five Krüppel-like zinc finger domains and sharing high homology with GLI zinc finger proteins. It has been postulated to have a critical role in the regulation of a variety of cellular processes during development [127]. GLIS3 may act as a transcriptional activator or repressor, but its precise role in thyroid development and function remains to be determined [128]. So far, few patients with syndromic CH and GLIS3 mutations have been identified [126]. Very recently, a novel GLIS3 deletion has been published in a CH girl that also presented camptodactyly, syndactyly and polydactyly [129], and mutations have been reported in patients with CH and abnormalities in external genitalia, not previously described [130]. 2.5.2 JAG1 Studies in zebrafish suggested the involvement of Notch pathway in congenital hypothyroid phenotype [131]. In humans, heterozygous JAG1 variants are known to account for Alagille
