Genetic Defects in Thyroid Hormone Supply
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hypothyroidism, congenital, mutations, congenital hypothyroidism, patients, gene, endocrinol, hormone, tsh, mutation, screening, clin, pituitary, endocrinol metab


previously described [130]. 2.5.2 JAG1 Studies in zebrafish suggested the involvement of Notch pathway in congenital hypothyroid phenotype [131]. In humans, heterozygous JAG1 variants are known to account for Alagille syndrome type 1 (ALGS1), a rare multisystemic developmental disorder characterized by variable expressivity and incomplete penetrance, but a recent study on a cohort of 21 young Alagille patients revealed an increased risk of non-autoimmune hypothyroidism (28%) in the presence of JAG1 heterozygous mutations [132, 133]. 2.5.3 CDCA8 Recently, genetic variants in CDCA8 (also called BOREALIN) were identified in a study of three consanguineous families with thyroid dysgenesis [134]. The thyroid phenotypes observed in patients carrying CDCA8 variants is extensive, ranging from thyroid agenesis or ectopy to euthyroid individuals with asymmetric thyroid lobes or thyroid nodules. This variability makes the role of CDCA8 in thyroid dysgenesis still unclear and controversial. 2.5.4 SLC26A4 Pendrin ( SLC26A4 , PDS ) alterations have been initially associated to Pendred syndrome (see later). Recently, NGS techniques used in patients with TD, demonstrated the frequent presence of SLC26A4 mutations also in patients with TD. The mutations were initially identified in a patient with hypoplastic thyroid tissue and severe hearing problems [135], but later the prevalence of SLC26A4 mutation was calculated to be 4% among studied Chinese CH patients [136]. 2.5.5 DNAJC17 Studies on mouse models indicated that neither Pax8 or Nkx2.1 heterozygous null mice showed overt thyroid defects, while double heterozygous mice for both Nkx2.1 and Pax8 (DHTP) had a severe hypothyroidism characterized by thyroid hypoplasia or hemiagenesis [118]. The DHTP hypothyroid phenotype was strain specific, and the same authors identified in Dnajc17 the strain-related modifier gene for hypothyroidism. DNAJC17 belongs to the heat-shock-protein-40 type III family. DNAJC17 proteins interact, via a highly-conserved domain (J domain) with Hsp70 chaperone proteins, regulating their activity and controlling the disassembly of transcriptional complexes [137, 138]. Very recently a DNAJC17 mutational screening has been performed in a cohort of 89 CH patients. The analysis identified only one rare variant (c.610G>C) and one polymorphism (c.350A>C) in affected patients. Both variants were already reported in databases and the frequency of the alleles was not different between TD patients and controls [139]. 3. Defects in thyroid hormone synthesis (dyshormonogenesis) In about 15% of cases, CH is due to hormonogenesis defects caused by mutations in genes involved in thyroid hormone synthesis, secretion or recycling. These cases are clinically characterized by the presence of goiter, and
