Genetic Defects in Thyroid Hormone Supply
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hypothyroidism, congenital, mutations, congenital hypothyroidism, patients, gene, endocrinol, hormone, tsh, mutation, screening, clin, pituitary, endocrinol metab


CH is due to hormonogenesis defects caused by mutations in genes involved in thyroid hormone synthesis, secretion or recycling. These cases are clinically characterized by the presence of goiter, and the molecular mechanisms have been well defined. In thyroid follicular cells, iodide is actively transported and concentrated by the sodium iodide symporter present in the baso-lateral membrane. Subsequently it is oxidised by hydrogen peroxide generation system (thyroperoxidase, Pendrin) and bound to tyrosine residues in thyroglobulin to form iodotyrosine (iodide organification). Some of these iodotyrosine residues (monoiodotyrosine and diiodotyrosine) are coupled to form the hormonally active iodothyronines (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3). When needed, thyroglobulin is hydrolyzed and hormones are released in the blood. A small part of the iodotyronines is hydrolyzed in the gland, and iodine is recovered by the action of specific enzymes, namely the intrathyroidal dehalogenases (Figure 1). Defects in any of these steps lead to reduced circulating thyroid hormone, resulting in congenital hypothyroidism and goiter. In most of the cases, the mutations in these genes appear to be inherited in autosomal recessive fashion [9]. 3.1 Sodium-iodide symporter The sodium-iodide symporter (NIS) is a member of the sodium/solute symporter family that actively transports iodide across the membrane of the thyroid follicular cells. The human gene ( SLC5A5 ) maps to chromosome 19p13.2-p12. It has 15 exons encoding for a 643-amino acid protein expressed primarily in thyroid, but also in salivary glands, gastric mucosa, small intestinal mucosa, lacrimal gland, nasopharynx, thymus, skin, lung tissue, choroid plexus, ciliary body, uterus, lactating mammary tissue and mammary carcinoma cells, and placenta. Only in thyroid cells iodide transport is regulated by TSH. It has been demonstrated that the δ-amino group at position 124 of NIS protein, is required for the transporter’s maturation and cell surface targeting [140]. The inability of the thyroid gland to accumulate iodine was one of the early known causes of CH, and before the cloning of NIS, a clinical diagnosis of hereditary iodide transport defect (ITD) was made on the basis of goitrous hypothyroidism and absent thyroidal radioiodine uptake. To date, 15 mutations in the SLC5A5 gene have been identified in patients with ITD [141]. Some of these, including V59E, G93R, Δ439-443, R124H, Q267E, T354P, G395R, and G543E, have been studied in detail and have provided key mechanistic information on NIS function. Since SLC5A5 mutations are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, NIS gene defects can be detected only when
