Genetic Defects in Thyroid Hormone Supply
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hypothyroidism, congenital, mutations, congenital hypothyroidism, patients, gene, endocrinol, hormone, tsh, mutation, screening, clin, pituitary, endocrinol metab


studied in detail and have provided key mechanistic information on NIS function. Since SLC5A5 mutations are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, NIS gene defects can be detected only when both alleles are mutated and the clinical picture is characterized by hypothyroidism of variable severity (from severe to fully compensated) and goiter. Furthermore, the actual prevalence of NIS gene mutations may be higher than that reported [142]. 3.2 Thyroperoxidase The most frequent cause of dyshormonogenesis is thyroperoxidase (TPO) deficiency. TPO is the enzyme that catalyses the oxidation, organification, and coupling reactions. Accumulation of iodine in the thyroid gland reaches a steady state between active influx, protein binding, and efflux, resulting in a relatively low free intracellular iodide concentration in normal conditions, while increased in the presence of TPO defects. The kinetics of iodide uptake and release can be traced by administration of radioiodide. Radioiodide uptake and perchlorate inhibition gives an idea of the intrathyroidal iodide concentration in relation to the circulating iodine. Iodine organification defects can be quantified as total or partial: total iodide organification defects are characterized by discharge of more than 90% of the radioiodide taken up by the gland within 1 hour after administration of sodium perchlorate, usually given 2 hours after radioiodide. A total disappearance of the thyroid image is also observed. Partial iodide organification defects are characterized by discharge of 20% to 90% of the accumulated radioiodine [143]. Mutations in TPO gene (particularly nonsynonymous cSNPs) can lead to severe defects in thyroid hormone production, due to total or partial iodide organification defects. Based on the literature, exons 7–11 encoding the catalytic center of the TPO protein (heme binding region) are crucial for the enzymatic activity. Nonsense, splice-site, and frameshift mutations have been also described by several groups [141]. 3.3 DUOX1 and DUOX2 The generation of H 2 O 2 is a crucial step in thyroid hormonogenesis. DUOX1 and DUOX2 are glycoproteins with seven putative transmembrane domains. These proteins, map on chromosome 15q15.3, and their function remained unclear until a factor, named DUOXA2, which allows the transition of DUOX2 from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi, was identified [144]. The coexpression of this factor with DUOX2 in HeLa cells is able to reconstitute the H 2 O 2 production in vitro . A similar protein (DUOXA1) is necessary for the complete maturation of the DUOX1. In murine models, only DUOX2 loss of function mutation have been
