Genetic Defects in Thyroid Hormone Supply
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hypothyroidism, congenital, mutations, congenital hypothyroidism, patients, gene, endocrinol, hormone, tsh, mutation, screening, clin, pituitary, endocrinol metab


O 2 production in vitro . A similar protein (DUOXA1) is necessary for the complete maturation of the DUOX1. In murine models, only DUOX2 loss of function mutation have been associated with hypothyroidism; thus, the role of DUOX1 in thyroid biology remains unclear [145]. DUOX2 mutations usually cause transient CH or permanent CH with partial iodide organification defect. Permanent and transient CH may result from both mono- and biallelic mutations, and phenotypic heterogeneity may occur with similar mutations [146]. To date, at least 41 patients belonging to 33 families have been reported to carry mutations in DUOX2 gene [147]. Recently, a case of CH with a homozygous loss-of-function mutation in DUOX1 (c.1823-1G>C) was reported. The mutation was inherited digenically with a homozygous DUOX2 nonsense mutation (c.1300 C>T, p. R434*) [148]. Probably, the inability of DUOX1 to compensate for the DUOX2 deficiency in these kindred may underlie the severe CH phenotype. 3.4 Pendrin The Pendred syndrome is characterized by congenital neurosensorial deafness and goiter. The disease is transmitted as autosomal recessive disorder. Patients have a moderately enlarged thyroid gland, are usually euthyroid and show only a partial discharge of iodide after the administration of thiocyanate or perchlorate. The impaired hearing is not constant. In 1997, the PDS gene was cloned and the predicted protein of 780 amino acids (86-kD) was called Pendrin. The PDS gene maps to human chromosome 7q31, contains 21 exons, and it is expressed both in the cochlea and in the thyroid. Pendrin has been localized in the apical membrane of thyroid follicular cell [149]. In thyroid follicular cells, and in transfected oocytes, Pendrin is able to transport iodide. A number of mutations in the PDS gene have been described in patients with Pendred syndrome. Despite the goiter, individuals are likely to be euthyroid and only rarely present congenital hypothyroidism. However, TSH levels are often in the upper limit of the normal range, and hypothyroidism of variable severity may eventually develop. In the last years, mutation in the PDS gene have also been associated with thyroid dysgenesis [135, 136]. 3.5 Thyroglobulin Thyroglobulin is a homodimer protein synthesized exclusively in the thyroid. The human gene is located on chromosome 8q24 and the coding sequence, containing 8307 bp, is divided into 42 exons [150]. Patients with disorders of thyroglobulin synthesis are moderately to severely hypothyroid and often present goiter. Usually, plasma thyroglobulin concentration is low, especially in relation to the
