Genetic Defects in Thyroid Hormone Supply
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hypothyroidism, congenital, mutations, congenital hypothyroidism, patients, gene, endocrinol, hormone, tsh, mutation, screening, clin, pituitary, endocrinol metab


into 42 exons [150]. Patients with disorders of thyroglobulin synthesis are moderately to severely hypothyroid and often present goiter. Usually, plasma thyroglobulin concentration is low, especially in relation to the TSH concentrations, and does not change after T4 treatment or injection of TSH. Patients classified in the category “thyroglobulin synthesis defects” often have other abnormal iodoproteins, mainly iodinated plasma albumin, and they excrete iodopeptides of low molecular weight in the urine. At least 70 distinct inactivation TG gene mutations have been described [150, 151]. Scintigraphy shows high uptake (due to induction of NIS expression by TSH stimulation) in a typically enlarged thyroid gland. 3.6 DEHAL1 In addition to the active transport from the blood due to NIS, iodine in the thyroid follicular cells derives also from the deiodination of monoiodotyrosine and diiodotyrosine. The gene encoding for this enzymatic activity was recently identified and named IYD (or DEHAL1 ) [152]. The human gene maps to chromosome 6q24-q25 and consists of six exons encoding a protein of 293 amino acids, a nitroreductase-related enzyme capable of deiodinating iodotyrosines. In the past it has been suggested that IYD mutations could be responsible for congenital hypothyroidism, but only in 2008 the first IYD mutations were described in three different consanguineous families. All the patients had homozygous IYD mutations, and presented goiter and hypothyroidism. The onset of symptoms was very variable, either at birth or later in infancy or childhood. A particular mutation of IYD, (c.658G>A, p.Ala220Thr), was reported in a heterozygous 14-yr-old boy affected by hypothyroidism and goiter, suggesting a possible dominant effect of the mutation. Very recently, a new IYD mutation was identified by genome-wide approach in a 20-yr-old patient with hypothyroidism and goiter and in his 4.5-yr-old apparently healthy sister in a consanguineous Moroccan family [153]. Since hypothyroidism is infrequent at birth, patients with biallelic IYD mutations are normally not identified as CH at the screening, but they subsequently came to medical attention between 1.5 and 8.0 years of age [141]. REFERENCES Rapaport, R., Congenital hypothyroidism: an evolving common clinical conundrum. The Journal of clinical endocrinology and metabolism, 2010. 95 (9): p. 4223-5. Olney, R.S., S.D. Grosse, and R.F. Vogt, Jr., Prevalence of congenital hypothyroidism--current trends and future directions: workshop summary. Pediatrics, 2010. 125 Suppl 2 : p. S31-6. Ford, G. and S.H. LaFranchi, Screening for congenital hypothyroidism: a worldwide view of strategies. Best Pract Res Clin Endocrinol Metab, 2014. 28 (2): p.
