HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, achalasia, author, manuscript, author manuscript, myotomy, poem, treatment, manuscript author, esophageal, lhm, studies, toxin, study, botulinum


HHS Public Access Author manuscript Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 February 03. Published in final edited form as: Am J Gastroenterol. 2020 September ; 115(9): 1393–1411. doi:. ACG Clinical Guidelines: Diagnosis and Management of Achalasia Medicine, Nashville, Tennessee, USA; Medicine, Chicago, Illinois, USA; California, USA; Cleveland, Ohio, USA; Illinois, USA. Abstract Achalasia is an esophageal motility disorder characterized by aberrant peristalsis and insufficient relaxation of the lower esophageal sphincter. Patients most commonly present with dysphagia to solids and liquids, regurgitation, and occasional chest pain with or without weight loss. High-resolution manometry has identified 3 subtypes of achalasia distinguished by pressurization and contraction patterns. Endoscopic findings of retained saliva with puckering of the gastroesophageal junction or esophagram findings of a dilated esophagus with bird beaking are the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation process to provide clinical guidance on how best to diagnose and treat patients with achalasia. INTRODUCTION Achalasia is one of the most studied esophageal motility disorders. In this guideline, we address the diagnosis, treatment, and overall management of adult patients with achalasia. This guideline is structured in the format of recommendations, key concepts, and summaries Specific author contributions: All authors contributed to the planning, data analysis, writing, and the final revision of the manuscript. Potential competing interests: J.E.P. serves as a speaker for Ethicon, serves as a speaker and consultant for Diversatek, has stock options for Crospon, and serves as a speaker, consultant, and has a licensing agreement on FLIP with Medtronic. The remaining authors have no conflicts of interest. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript of the evidence. Each recommendation statement has an associated assessment of the quality of evidence and strength of recommendation based on the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) process. Key concepts are statements that are not amenable to the GRADE process, either because of the structure of the statement or the available evidence. In some instances, key concepts are based on the extrapolation of evidence and/or expert opinion. The evidence summary for each section provides important definitions and data supporting the recommendations. METHODS Each section will provide specific recommendations based on the current literature and a summary of the evidence supporting those recommendations. We used the GRADE process (Table 1) for each of the recommendation statements (Table 2). Two formally trained GRADE methodologists conducted the GRADE process using GRADEPro. This process evaluated the
