HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, achalasia, author, manuscript, author manuscript, myotomy, poem, treatment, manuscript author, esophageal, lhm, studies, toxin, study, botulinum


We used the GRADE process (Table 1) for each of the recommendation statements (Table 2). Two formally trained GRADE methodologists conducted the GRADE process using GRADEPro. This process evaluated the quality of supporting evidence. The quality of the evidence is graded from high to low. “High”-quality evidence indicates that further research is unlikely to change the authors’ confidence in the estimate of effect and that we are very confident that the true effect lies close to that of the estimate of the effect. “Moderate”-quality evidence is associated with moderate confidence in the effect estimate, although further research would be likely to have an impact on the confidence of the estimate, whereas “low”-quality evidence indicates that further study would likely have an important impact on the confidence in the estimate of the effect and would likely change the estimate. “Very low”–quality evidence indicates very little confidence in the effect estimate and that the true effect is likely to be substantially different than the estimate of effect. A “strong” recommendation is made when the benefits clearly outweigh the negative, whereas a “conditional” recommendation is used when some uncertainty remains about the balance of benefit and potential harms. Key concepts are statements that are not amenable to the GRADE process, either because of the structure of the statement or because of the available evidence. In some instances, key concepts are based on the extrapolation of evidence and/or expert opinion. Tables 2 and 3 summarize the GRADE recommendations and key concept statements in this guideline. EPIDEMIOLOGY AND DIAGNOSIS Achalasia is an esophageal motility disorder with reported global incidence and prevalence ranging from 0.03 to 1.63 per 100,000 persons per year and 1.8 to 12.6 per 100,000 persons per year, respectively (1,2). Achalasia is a rare diagnosis with only 20,000–40,000 affected patients in the United States. It occurs equally in men and women, with no racial predilection. The peak incidence occurs between 30 and 60 years of age. Patients often present with progressive dysphagia to solids and liquids, heartburn, chest pain, regurgitation, and varying degrees of weight loss or nutritional deficiencies (1,3). Diagnosis of achalasia is thus clinically suspected in patients who present with the above-mentioned classic symptoms and then confirmed by objective diagnostic tests discussed below. However, because heartburn may be present in 27%–42% of patients with achalasia, patients are frequently initially misdiagnosed as having gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and are treated with proton
