HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, achalasia, author, manuscript, author manuscript, myotomy, poem, treatment, manuscript author, esophageal, lhm, studies, toxin, study, botulinum


discussed below. However, because heartburn may be present in 27%–42% of patients with achalasia, patients are frequently initially misdiagnosed as having gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and are treated with proton pump inhibitors (PPI) (4). Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 February 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Recommendation 1. We recommend that patients who are initially suspected of having GERD but do not respond to acid-suppressive therapy should be evaluated for achalasia. An incorrect GERD diagnosis often leads to a significant delay in achalasia diagnosis until patients have persistent symptoms that eventually lead to the correct diagnostic studies. Pathophysiology Achalasia is an incurable disease, and the underlying etiology remains unknown. The primary etiology of achalasia is believed to be selective loss of inhibitory neurons in the myenteric plexus of the distal esophagus and lower esophageal sphincter (LES), resulting in a neuronal imbalance of excitatory and inhibitory activity. Excitatory neurons release acetylcholine, whereas inhibitory neurons primarily release vasoactive intestinal peptide and nitric oxide (5). A localized decrease of vasoactive intestinal peptide and nitric oxide with unopposed excitatory activity causes failure of LES relaxation and disruption of esophageal peristalsis (6,7). Diagnostic testing Endoscopy, barium esophagram, and esophageal manometry are 3 well established and often complementary tests in establishing the diagnosis of achalasia. Endoscopic findings of retained saliva (Figure 1a) with a puckered gastroesophageal junction (Figure 1b) or barium swallow showing a dilated esophagus with bird beaking (Figure 1c) are important diagnostic clues. In early achalasia, barium esophagram showing retention of barium above the gastroesophageal junction may at times be misinterpreted as a reflux-related stricture or missed completely. Endoscopy is more likely to show a classic appearance in a moderate to severely dilated esophagus and less likely in those with early disease. Endoscopy also plays a pivotal role in excluding pseudoachalasia or other mechanical obstruction that may result in symptoms similar to achalasia. A significant short-term weight loss in elderly patients with suspected achalasia should alert providers to the possibility of pseudoachalasia. In such cases, cross-sectional imaging and/or endoscopic ultrasound may be used for establishing the correct diagnosis. Endoscopy is useful in patients after therapy who have recurrence of symptoms to assess for reflux and possible reflux-related stricturing vs recurrence of achalasia. Barium esophagram can be complementary in patients whose manometric findings are equivocal or not classic. Timed barium esophagram (discussed in the “Post-Therapy Assessment” section) was
