HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, achalasia, author, manuscript, author manuscript, myotomy, poem, treatment, manuscript author, esophageal, lhm, studies, toxin, study, botulinum


stricturing vs recurrence of achalasia. Barium esophagram can be complementary in patients whose manometric findings are equivocal or not classic. Timed barium esophagram (discussed in the “Post-Therapy Assessment” section) was developed to guide providers not only in suspecting the diagnosis of achalasia but also to help guide post-therapy success. Barium column height at 1-, 2-, and 5-minutes after ingestion of a large barium bolus determines the can be diagnosed with esophagram findings of retained barium and bird beaking and/or endoscopic signs of a dilated esophagus with retained saliva and food with a puckered and tight esophagogastric junction (EGJ). The diagnosis of achalasia is confirmed with high-resolution manometry (HRM), which is the current gold standard test (8). HRM leverages improved space-time resolution and a Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 February 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript more intuitive description of contractile and pressure patterns to refine the classification of motor dysfunction that was originally described using conventional low-resolution pressure tracing manometry. The main benefits of this classification are an improved accuracy, an ability to distinguish clinically relevant subtypes, and a higher level of reproducibility. The achalasia subtypes represent the foundation of the Chicago Classification, and this approach advanced our understanding of achalasia as a heterogeneous disease with distinct patterns of pressurization and contraction in the body of the esophagus (9). Achalasia is now recognized to present with 3 distinct manometric subtypes (Figure 2). All 3 subtypes have impaired EGJ relaxation, but the distinguishing features are the pattern of esophageal pressurization and contraction. Achalasia type I (second most common; 20%–40% of cases) is characterized by 100% failed peristalsis (aperistalsis) with the absence of panesophageal pressurization to more than 30 mm Hg, achalasia type II (most common; 50%–70% of cases) is characterized by 100% failed peristalsis (aperistalsis) with panesophageal pressurization to greater than 30 mm Hg, and achalasia type III (least common; 5% of cases) is characterized by spastic contractions because of abnormal lumen obliterating contractions with or without periods of panesophageal pressurization (9). Correct diagnosis, treatment, and management of patients with achalasia is crucial to ensure optimal patient outcome. In a blinded multicenter study by Carlson et al. (10) esophageal pressure topography was shown to have superior inter-rater agreement and diagnostic accuracy compared with conventional manometry. The total agreement in the study was moderate for esophageal pressure topography (κ = 0.57; 95% confidence interval [CI]:
