HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, achalasia, author, manuscript, author manuscript, myotomy, poem, treatment, manuscript author, esophageal, lhm, studies, toxin, study, botulinum


have superior inter-rater agreement and diagnostic accuracy compared with conventional manometry. The total agreement in the study was moderate for esophageal pressure topography (κ = 0.57; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.56–0.59) and fair for conventional manometry (κ = 0.32; 0.30–0.33), and the odds for an incorrect diagnosis was 3.4 times higher with conventional manometry. In addition, Roman et al. (11) performed a randomized trial in which 124 patients underwent conventional manometry and 123 patients underwent esophageal pressure topography to determine diagnostic accuracy in unexplained dysphagia. This study reported a higher yield of making the diagnosis of achalasia (26% vs 12%) and a higher degree of diagnostic confirmation on follow-up (89% vs 81%) with esophageal pressure topography compared with conventional manometry, respectively. Similarly, additional studies have supported high rates of inter- and intra-rater agreement for achalasia (12–14). Recommendation 2. Based on the inherent benefit of improved detail in describing esophageal pressurization and contractile patterns using esophageal pressure topography and superior accuracy and reproducibility in diagnosing achalasia in both randomized controlled and blinded comparison studies, we recommend using esophageal pressure topography over conventional line tracing for the diagnosis of achalasia. In the era before HRM and esophageal pressure topography, patients with achalasia were grouped as a single disease and were offered various treatment modalities focused on disrupting the LES via dilation or myotomy. The treatment decision was not tailored based on physiology or anatomy and was primarily driven by the expertise of the treating physician and the patient’s preference. Although most studies suggest very good outcomes over a short Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 February 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript duration, treatment failures over the first 1–5 years could be as high as 10%–20%. The achalasia subtypes in the Chicago Classification were created to subtype vigorous achalasia and variants into a more uniform scheme to determine whether these subtypes had different pathogenic features and response to therapy (9). The achalasia subtypes were found to differ in prevalence, degree of esophageal dilatation, and underlying opioid utilization, and there was also observational evidence of patients progressing across the subtypes typically starting with type III and moving to type II (9). This signature was consistent with the typical description of the progression of disease because it relates to dilatation as type I patients were typically more dilated than type II patients. These initial findings led to multiple
