HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, achalasia, author, manuscript, author manuscript, myotomy, poem, treatment, manuscript author, esophageal, lhm, studies, toxin, study, botulinum


typical description of the progression of disease because it relates to dilatation as type I patients were typically more dilated than type II patients. These initial findings led to multiple studies that assessed treatment outcomes, and a consistent pattern emerged where type II with treatments that were confined to the LES or short myotomies (15–20). Two recent meta-analyses also support that achalasia subtypes defined in the Chicago Classification have prognostic value and varying outcomes across therapies (21,22). More recently, there have been additional studies focused on single therapies (Heller myotomy, POEM) and the achalasia subtypes. Three studies assessing the effect of Heller myotomy across the achalasia subtypes suggested only mild differences or similar outcomes (23,24). These findings are in line with the previous findings supporting better outcomes with surgery for type I and type III based on a more robust disruption and a longer myotomy. Even better results have been found with POEM across the subtypes (25,26), and one study actually found that type III patients performed better with POEM (98% response) vs Heller myotomy (80%) (27). This also suggests that the longer myotomy may be an important component of treatment for type III achalasia. Tailored POEM, which typically extends the myotomy further than Heller myotomy, seems to be even more effective in this subtype, (27) and thus, identifying type III achalasia has implications in treatment decisions. Recommendation 3. Based on these observations, we suggest that classifying achalasia subtypes by the Chicago Classification may help inform both prognosis and treatment choice because type II patients have very good outcomes, regardless of which therapy is selected, and type III patients require a more extensive myotomy. The functional lumen imaging probe (FLIP) is a high-resolution impedance system that is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to study the pressure geometry relationship and motor function of the esophagus (28). Its role in the diagnosis of achalasia and post-therapy assessment of patients is evolving. By assessing simultaneous cross-sectional area and pressure (distensibility), the FLIP device can depict the pressure geometry relationship in a simulated 3D model, and this approach is useful in assessing the EGJ opening dynamics in achalasia (29). FLIP has also been shown to be a useful tool in diagnosing achalasia and has a high concordance with manometry and may help in equivocal cases where manometry fails to diagnose achalasia despite a high clinical suspicion. In a small study that
