HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, achalasia, author, manuscript, author manuscript, myotomy, poem, treatment, manuscript author, esophageal, lhm, studies, toxin, study, botulinum


achalasia and has a high concordance with manometry and may help in equivocal cases where manometry fails to diagnose achalasia despite a high clinical suspicion. In a small study that included 13 patients with typical symptoms of achalasia, Eckardt score (ES) of 7 (5–7), and normal EGJ pressures despite abnormal esophageal stasis, the EGJ distensibility index was diagnostic of poor EGJ opening (0.8 [0.7–1.2] mm2/mm Hg) and Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 February 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript modified the treatment strategy (30). FLIP panometry is shown to be sensitive and accurate in diagnosing achalasia compared with HRM. In a study of 145 patients undergoing blinded analysis of FLIP assessment and HRM, a manometric diagnosis of achalasia was made in 70 patients, and all 70 patients were identified to have reduced EGJ distensibility by FLIP (31). FLIP may also be useful in evaluating patients who cannot tolerate or complete a standard manometry because FLIP is performed during endoscopy while the patient is sedated. Further studies are required to determine whether FLIP can replace or reduce the number of manometry studies and barium esophagrams in the management of achalasia because the potential of performing this study during the index endoscopy has cost-effectiveness implications. Based on consistent but low-quality data, the role of FLIP in achalasia is evolving, and it may be helpful in patients who cannot tolerate manometry and also may function as an arbiter in difficult cases before and after treatment. INITIAL TREATMENT OPTIONS It is important to recognize that achalasia is a chronic condition without a cure. All current treatment options in achalasia are palliative in nature and aim to reduce the hypertonicity of the LES. The ultimate goals of therapy include reducing symptoms, improving esophageal emptying, and preventing further dilation of the esophagus. The currently available treatment options in achalasia include pharmacologic, endoscopic, and surgical means. A tailored approach with the available treatment options can help patients achieve the outlined goals of therapy. Oral pharmacologic therapy Pharmacologic therapy is the least effective treatment option in achalasia. Calcium channel blockers (nifedipine 10–30 mg sublingual before meals) and nitrates (sublingual isosorbide dinitrate 5 mg before meals) are the 2 most commonly used medications in treating achalasia (32–40). The mechanisms through which they function include the release of nitrous oxide in the latter and reduction of intracellular calcium in the former, leading to
