HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, achalasia, author, manuscript, author manuscript, myotomy, poem, treatment, manuscript author, esophageal, lhm, studies, toxin, study, botulinum


medications in treating achalasia (32–40). The mechanisms through which they function include the release of nitrous oxide in the latter and reduction of intracellular calcium in the former, leading to relaxation of the LES. Other less commonly used medical therapies include anticholinergics (atropine, dicyclomine, and cimetropium bromide), (beta)-adrenergic agonists (terbutaline), and theophylline (41–43). Sildenafil (50 mg) has also shown some efficacy in treating patients with achalasia (44,45). Overall, pharmacotherapy in achalasia results in a short-term decrease of LES pressure in 13%–65% of patients resulting in symptom improvement in 0%–87% of patients (32). Short duration of action (30–120 minutes) necessitates multiple daily dosing which may lead to side effects of headache, hypotension, and pedal edema. Despite the lack of comparative trials, more definitive therapies seem to have higher and more durable efficacy in achalasia, and pharmacotherapy should be used only for patients with achalasia who are not candidates for definitive therapies of pneumatic dilation (PD), laparoscopic Heller myotomy (LHM), or POEM and have failed botulinum toxin injection. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 February 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Endoscopic pharmacologic therapy Botulinum toxin is a potent presynaptic inhibitor of acetylcholine release from nerve endings that has proven to be a useful treatment in achalasia (46). The toxin cleaves the protein (SNAP-25) involved in fusing presynaptic vesicles containing acetycholine with the neuronal plasma membrane in contact with the target muscle. This, in turn, inhibits exocytosis of acetylcholine into the synaptic area and causes a short-term paralysis of the muscle by blocking the unopposed cholinergic stimulation of the LES, which is devoid of inhibitory influence in achalasia. This effect interrupts the neurogenic component of the sphincter; however, it has no effect on the myogenic influence maintaining basal LES tone. Thus, the treatment is limited, and most treatment effects are associated with an approximate 50% reduction in the basal LES pressure (47). This reduction may be sufficient to allow esophageal emptying when esophageal pressure rises to a level where it can overwhelm the partially paralyzed LES. Botulinum toxin injection is straightforward to administer and is associated with low rates of complications, although rare cases of reflux and mediastinitis may occur. 100 U of botulinum toxin is delivered above the squamocolumnar junction using a sclerotherapy needle in 0.5–1 mL aliquots. Escalating doses above 100 U have not been shown to have superior treatment benefit. A systematic review
