HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, achalasia, author, manuscript, author manuscript, myotomy, poem, treatment, manuscript author, esophageal, lhm, studies, toxin, study, botulinum


delivered above the squamocolumnar junction using a sclerotherapy needle in 0.5–1 mL aliquots. Escalating doses above 100 U have not been shown to have superior treatment benefit. A systematic review (48) has shown that based on 9 studies in 315 patients, symptom relief is reported after botulinum toxin in 78.7% of patients evaluated within 30 days of treatment. Symptom relief declines in months after treatment, with 70% symptom relief at 3 months, 53.3% relief at 6 months, and 40.6% relief at 12 months. In this systematic review, additional injections for symptom relief were needed in 46.6% of patients, and 30% of patients required additional treatments for symptom relief comprising either repeated botulinum toxin injection, dilatation, or surgery. Botulinum toxin can provide effective initial treatment results with only slightly lower effectiveness compared with myotomy; however, this treatment benefit quickly dissipates over time, making it a suboptimal intervention for patients with reasonable life expectancy fit for endoscopic or surgical interventions. Botulinum toxin is the best studied pharmacotherapy in achalasia, and it is the most effective pharmacological treatment that can be offered; however, its benefits are short lived, and the medication should not be offered as first-line treatment to patients who are fit for myotomy. Recommendation 4. We recommend botulinum toxin injection as first-line therapy for patients with achalasia that are unfit for definitive therapies compared with other less-effective pharmacological therapies. Impact of botulinum toxin before other definitive therapies.—Effects of botulinum toxin on tissue scarring was examined in an animal study where esophagi from swine treated by botulinum toxin or pneumatic dilatation were compared with those who did not receive any endoscopic intervention (49). Hematoxylin and eosin stains from treated animals showed severe inflammatory changes consistent with reflux and mild fibrosis. Clinical data published by Patti et al. (50) suggested deleterious effect of previous botulinum Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 February 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript toxin on myotomy outcomes. In an observational study design, these authors followed 44 patients with achalasia; 16 were treated by laparoscopic myotomy and Dor fundoplication, 10 were treated by botulinum toxin, and the remainder were treated by pneumatic dilatation. Reported outcomes included anatomical planes identified at surgery, esophageal perforation, and percentage of patients with good/excellent results after intervention. Histological samples were not obtained to confirm the presence and degree of tissue fibrosis. In patients who did not have symptomatic
