HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, achalasia, author, manuscript, author manuscript, myotomy, poem, treatment, manuscript author, esophageal, lhm, studies, toxin, study, botulinum


and percentage of patients with good/excellent results after intervention. Histological samples were not obtained to confirm the presence and degree of tissue fibrosis. In patients who did not have symptomatic relief with botulinum toxin, surgery was technically straightforward, and the outcome was excellent. In patients who responded to botulinum toxin injection, the LES became fibrotic, and relief of dysphagia was not as robust. Smith et al. (51) retrospectively analyzed 209 patients undergoing Heller myotomy for achalasia. Fifty-four patients were treated using botulinum toxin alone, or in combination with pneumatic dilatation. Complications including dysphagia and perforation were seen in 10.4% who had previous endoscopic treatment compared with 5.4% of patients who were only treated by surgical myotomy (P < 0.05). Previous botulinum toxin did not seem to increase the likelihood of complications of POEM. Patients who had previous treatment with botulinum toxin or surgical myotomy had similar intraoperative times, length of stay after surgery, and dysphagia scores after POEM. The follow-up period in these studies was less than 2 years (52,53). Evidence regarding potential harms of botulinum toxin before surgical and endoscopic myotomies is conflicting, and it is possible that uncertainty regarding negative effects of previous botulinum toxin stems from the fact that data are derived from observational studies that included small number of patients and limited follow-up periods. Recommendation 5. We recommend that treatment with botulinum toxin injection does not significantly affect performance and outcomes of myotomy. Pneumatic dilation PD is an effective option for patients with achalasia (1). Standard dilators are not effective in disrupting the muscularis propria needed for symptom relief in this group of patients. All patients considered for PD must also be candidates for surgery in the event of esophageal perforation needing repair which is reported in 1.9% (range 0%–10%). The most commonly used balloon dilator for achalasia is the nonradiopaque graded size polyethylene balloon (Rigiflex dilators). The procedure is always performed under sedation with or without fluoroscopy. The dilators come in 3 sizes (3.0, 3.5, and 4.0 cm) and are often used in a graded fashion (3.0 cm first, followed by 3.5 cm and then 4.0 cm) (Figure 3). The most important aspect of PD is the expertise of the operator and the institutional backup for surgical intervention in case of perforation. Accurate fluoroscopic (Figure 4a) or endoscopic positioning (Figure 4b) of the balloon across the LES is important in its effectiveness. The pressure required
