HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, achalasia, author, manuscript, author manuscript, myotomy, poem, treatment, manuscript author, esophageal, lhm, studies, toxin, study, botulinum


for surgical intervention in case of perforation. Accurate fluoroscopic (Figure 4a) or endoscopic positioning (Figure 4b) of the balloon across the LES is important in its effectiveness. The pressure required to obliterate the fluoroscopic waist or to maximum balloon dilation endoscopically is usually 10–15 psi of air held for 15–60 seconds. Patients are often observed in recovery for any signs of perforation (pain, crepitus, and fever). Radiographic testing by gastrograffin/barium esophagram and/or computed tomography scan of abdomen/ chest studies would be indicated if perforation is suspected. Otherwise, patients can be Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 February 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript discharged home with antiemetics and instructions to call if they develop severe chest pain with or without fever as delayed perforation after the procedure is possible. Good to excellent relief of symptoms is possible in 50%–93% of patients after PD (1). Cumulatively, dilation with 3.0-, 3.5-, and 4.0-cm balloon diameters result in good to excellent symptom relief in 74%, 86%, and 90% of patients with an average follow-up of 1.6 years (range 0.1–6 years). Initial dilation using a 3-cm balloon is recommended for most patients, followed by symptomatic and objective assessment in 4–6 weeks. In those who continued to be symptomatic, the next size dilator may be used. This approach is reasonable in all except a few patients with less favorable clinical response to the initial dilation with the 3.0-cm balloon. Therefore, serial PD is an effective treatment option for patients with achalasia for short- and long-term symptom and physiologic benefit. Predictors of favorable (nondilated) esophagus, and LES pressure after PD of < 10 mm Hg (54–58). Thus, serial dilation starting with the 3.0-cm balloon first may not be effective in younger men (age <45 years), possibly because of thicker LES musculature. In this group of younger men, PD starting at 3.5 cm, in addition to LHM or POEM, may be considered initial treatment approaches. The most serious complication associated with PD is esophageal perforation with an overall median rate in experienced hands (>100 patients treated) of 1.9% (range 0%–16%) (55,59). Every patient undergoing PD must be aware of the risk and understand that surgical intervention is possible in the event of perforation. Early recognition and management of perforation is key to better patient outcomes. Conservative therapy with antibiotic, parenteral nutrition, and stent placement may be effective in small perforation, but
