HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, achalasia, author, manuscript, author manuscript, myotomy, poem, treatment, manuscript author, esophageal, lhm, studies, toxin, study, botulinum


of perforation. Early recognition and management of perforation is key to better patient outcomes. Conservative therapy with antibiotic, parenteral nutrition, and stent placement may be effective in small perforation, but surgical repair through thoracotomy is the best approach in large and extensive mediastinal contamination. GERD may occur after PD in 15%–35% of patients, and in the case of recurrent dysphagia, GERD-related distal esophageal stricture should be considered a potential contributing complication. Thus, PPI therapy is indicated in those with GERD after PD. Currently, there is no standardized protocol for PD, and there is substantial variability in terms of the predilation setup, balloon dilation protocol, and postdilation recovery. One aspect of postdilation management that is associated with significant variability in practice patterns is the utilization of routine postdilation gastrograffin esophagram to rule out perforation. This approach is borne out of the fear of missing an esophageal perforation because this could have devastating consequences. However, there is minimal data to support that this approach improves outcome. A recent study by Zori et al. (60) retrospectively assessed 119 achalasia dilations where 49 patients underwent routine esophagram and 70 were observed and did not have routine esophagram. None of the 49 patients who underwent routine esophagram had a perforation and 12 of the 70 patients without routine esophagram in the clinical observation group eventually underwent esophagram because of clinical suspicion. Of these 12, 3 were found to have a perforation, and none of the 58 patients who did not undergo esophagram had a perforation during follow-up. These results support that there is no role for routine esophagram and that this test should be reserved for patients with clinical suspicion of perforation. A similar study assessing routine esophagram after peroral esophageal myotomy (POEM) and another study assessing routine contrast studies after Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 February 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Heller myotomy also questioned the need for routine postintervention follow-up because the esophagram had low specificity for clinically significant complications (61,62). Recommendation 6. Based on no evidence to support routine esophagram and the current shift in practice patterns to perform endoscopy after dilation to rule out and routine gastrograffin esophagram after dilation. This test should be reserved for patients with a clinical suspicion for perforation after dilation. Surgical myotomy Surgical myotomy is one of the 3 definitive therapies for achalasia. The original approach to surgical
