HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, achalasia, author, manuscript, author manuscript, myotomy, poem, treatment, manuscript author, esophageal, lhm, studies, toxin, study, botulinum


be reserved for patients with a clinical suspicion for perforation after dilation. Surgical myotomy Surgical myotomy is one of the 3 definitive therapies for achalasia. The original approach to surgical myotomy involved division of the muscle fibers of the LES (circular layer without disruption of the mucosa) through a thoracotomy (63). This achieved good-to-excellent results in 60%–94% of patients followed for 1–36 years (32), and it remained the surgery of choice for many years. The technique evolved initially with a laparotomy approach, which was subsequently supplanted by minimally invasive techniques. A thoracoscopic approach was developed and used with success, but laparoscopic myotomy has become the preferred method because of decreased morbidity and faster recovery (63) (Figure 5). Studies comparing the effectiveness of surgical modalities in achalasia are not homogeneous in follow-up length and definition of treatment success (48). Furthermore, all of the available literature is based on prospective or retrospective cohort or case-control studies because there are no randomized controlled trials comparing the different approaches with myotomy. In 13 studies of open transthoracic myotomy that included a total of 842 patients, symptom improvement was achieved in a mean 83% of patients (range 64%–97%). For open transabdominal myotomy, symptom improvement was achieved in 85% (range 48%–100%) of 732 patients in 10 studies. Data for thoracoscopic myotomy included 211 patients from 8 studies, with symptom improvement in a mean 78% (range 31%–94%) of patients. Finally, in 39 studies of laparoscopic myotomy that included a total of 3,086 patients, symptom improvement was achieved in a mean 89% of patients (range 77%–100%) (48). As with PD, the efficacy of Heller myotomy decreases with longer follow-up periods. In a series of 73 patients treated with Heller myotomy, excellent/good responses were reported in 89% and 57% of patients at 6-month and 6-year follow-up, respectively (55). In addition, some have suggested that previous PD may result in a higher rate of intraoperative mucosal perforation, but no change in the long-term symptomatic outcome (64). A meta-analysis of 1,575 patients having undergone various treatments for achalasia showed that LHM is successful, but its success rate depends on achalasia subtype. Types I and II achalasia patients did better post-LHM than type III patients with success rates of 81%, 92%, and 71%, respectively (21). Therefore, LHM is an appropriate initial therapy in patients with achalasia who are surgical candidates. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 February 03. Author
