HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, achalasia, author, manuscript, author manuscript, myotomy, poem, treatment, manuscript author, esophageal, lhm, studies, toxin, study, botulinum


71%, respectively (21). Therefore, LHM is an appropriate initial therapy in patients with achalasia who are surgical candidates. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 February 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Fundoplication postmyotomy.—The development of GERD after myotomy is a frequent problem, and whether an antireflux procedure should be performed to prevent reflux has been the subject of extensive debate, especially given concerns for increased postoperative dysphagia after a fundoplication. The average frequencies of GERD postsurgical myotomy without fundoplication for thoracotomy, laparotomy, thoracoscopy, and laparoscopy are similar: 29%, 28%, 28%, and 31%, respectively (48). Adding fundoplication after myotomy decreases the risk of GERD for thoracotomy, laparotomy, and laparoscopy; 14%, 8%, and 9%, respectively. No study has included fundoplication after thoracoscopic myotomy (48). The benefit of adding a fundoplication was demonstrated in a double-blind randomized trial comparing myotomy with vs without fundoplication (65). In this study, abnormal acid exposure on pH monitoring was found in 47% of patients without an antireflux procedure and 9% in patients who had a posterior Dor fundoplication. Heller myotomy with fundoplication was associated with significant risk reduction of GER (relative risk: 0.11; 95% CI: 0.02–0.59). This trial has since published 11-year follow-up data regarding patient-reported symptoms after surgical intervention (66). Patients reported similar long-term outcomes in reflux symptom control for both surgical interventions. Indirect evidence regarding this clinical question comes from a recent meta-analysis comparing POEM and laparoscopic Heller myotomy with fundoplication (67). The study included 1,542 patients who underwent POEM and 2,581 patients treated by Heller myotomy with fundoplication. Distal esophageal acid exposure was higher after POEM compared with laparoscopic myotomy with fundoplication (39.0% vs 16.8%). Abovementioned studies demonstrate that addition of fundoplication to myotomy reduces the incidence of distal esophageal acid exposure. Benefit of fundoplication is sustained long term. The achalasia guidelines from the Society of American Gastrointestinal and Endoscopic Surgeons recommended that patients who undergo myotomy should have a fundoplication to prevent reflux (68). The strength of evidence supporting the recommendation for addition of fundoplication to myotomy is limited by heterogeneity of studies. Recommendation 7. Thus, based on available data, we recommend that myotomy with fundoplication is superior to myotomy without fundoplication in controlling distal esophageal acid exposure. Dor and Toupet antireflux procedure after myotomy.—Although it has been fairly well established that adding a fundoplication is beneficial for reducing the rate of GERD after myotomy, there is
