HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, achalasia, author, manuscript, author manuscript, myotomy, poem, treatment, manuscript author, esophageal, lhm, studies, toxin, study, botulinum


exposure. Dor and Toupet antireflux procedure after myotomy.—Although it has been fairly well established that adding a fundoplication is beneficial for reducing the rate of GERD after myotomy, there is less certainty on the best approach (anterior Dor or posterior Toupet). A multicenter randomized controlled trial comparing these 2 approaches found a nonsignificant higher percentage of abnormal pH test results in 24 patients with Dor compared with 19 patients with Toupet fundoplication (41% vs 21%) with similar improvement of dysphagia and regurgitation symptoms in both groups (69). Metaregression of randomized trials comparing 2 different antireflux procedures performed in addition to surgical myotomy found that the odds of an abnormal postoperative 24-hour pH study result were 0.16 (95% CI, 0.11–0.24) for myotomy with anterior fundoplication and 0.18 (95% Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 February 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript CI, 0.13–0.25) for myotomy with posterior fundoplication (70). Acid exposure was not significantly different after anterior and posterior approaches to fundoplication. Dysphagia and reintervention rates were significantly lower for myotomy with posterior fundoplication compared with anterior fundoplication. A recent update to this meta-analysis suggested Toupet fundoplication to be superior to Dor for length of hospital stay and patient quality of life, whereas other measured variables of postoperative GERD, dysphagia, or complication rates and treatment failure were equivalent (71). Recommendation 8. Therefore, based on current data, we suggest either Dor or Toupet fundoplication to control esophageal acid exposure in patients with achalasia undergoing surgical myotomy. Peroral endoscopic myotomy Although the current treatments for achalasia are effective, PD is associated with a perforation risk of 1.9 % (72), and myotomy still requires laparoscopy and dissection of the EGJ. Thus, a hybrid technique was developed to incorporate an endoscopic approach with principles of natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery to perform a myotomy. This technique was developed in Japan and is termed peroral endoscopic myotomy or POEM (73). The procedure requires the creation of a submucosal plane using a forward viewing endoscope with a distal transparent cap to access the circular muscle fibers for performance of the myotomy. An endoscopic submucosal dissection knife is used to dissect the plane and also cut the muscle over a minimum length 6 cm into the esophagus and 2 cm below the squamocolumnar junction onto the cardia. Overall, the success rate, defined by an improvement in symptoms and no requirement of additional
