HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, achalasia, author, manuscript, author manuscript, myotomy, poem, treatment, manuscript author, esophageal, lhm, studies, toxin, study, botulinum


6 cm into the esophagus and 2 cm below the squamocolumnar junction onto the cardia. Overall, the success rate, defined by an improvement in symptoms and no requirement of additional medical or surgical treatment, in prospective cohorts has been greater than 90% (74–77), and this does seem to have promise as an alternative to the laparoscopic approach. One of the most commonly used areas in achalasia for POEM has been its use in type III achalasia. Patients with type III achalasia exhibit obstructive contractility of the distal esophagus and have been noted to have less of a response to disruptive therapies to the LES (Heller myotomy or PD) than those with type I or type II achalasia. One benefit of POEM involves the fact that the length of the myotomy can be tailored with the potential to include the length of the entire smooth muscle of the esophagus if necessary. This length can be tailored to findings of the length of the spastic segment noted on high-resolution esophageal manometry, length of esophageal wall thickening noted on EUS, or FLIP. A 2013 study assessed whether manometric subtype was associated with response to treatment in patients treated with either PD or LHM as part of the European achalasia trial. Eighteen patients had type III achalasia in the study. These patients had a higher success rate with LHM compared with PD (86% vs 40%, P = 0.12); the authors noted that the difference was not statistically significant because of the small number of patients (16). A 2019 meta-analysis of clinical outcomes after treatment for achalasia based on achalasia subtype found that success rates for LHM in type III achalasia were 71%, compared with Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 February 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 93% for POEM. POEM was more likely to be successful than LHM for patients with type III achalasia (odds ratio [OR] 3.50, 1.39–8.77; P = 0.007) (21). One retrospective study comparing 49 patients who underwent POEM for type III achalasia with 26 patients who underwent LHM found that those who underwent POEM had an improved clinical response (98.0% vs 80.8%, P = 0.01), shorter mean procedure time, and lower rate of adverse events (6% vs 27%, P < 0.01) (27). A 2017 systematic review and meta-analysis success of POEM was 92%. The weighted pooled rate for post-procedure adverse events was 11%
