HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, achalasia, author, manuscript, author manuscript, myotomy, poem, treatment, manuscript author, esophageal, lhm, studies, toxin, study, botulinum


esophagitis of 29.4% (95% CI, 18.5%–43.3%) after POEM compared with 7.6% (95% CI, 4.1%–13.7%) after surgical myotomy. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 February 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Recommendation 10. We support the evidence that in patients with achalasia, POEM compared with LHM with fundoplication or PD is associated with a higher incidence of GERD. It may be prudent to screen patients who undergo POEM for erosive esophagitis or Barrett’s esophagus, and patients who are contemplating POEM should be advised that lifelong acid suppression with PPIs may potentially be needed (82). Esophagectomy In the setting of poor esophageal emptying and high LES pressure, esophageal diameter can increase, and some patients may develop “end-stage” achalasia characterized by megaesophagus or sigmoid esophagus and significant esophageal dilation and tortuosity (Figure 6). This group of patients and those with untreated achalasia are at risk of aspiration, aspiration pneumonia, and malnutrition. In this group of patients, PD, surgical myotomy, or POEM may be less effective, and those with compromised nutrition may require enteral feeding. Endoscopic myotomy has been associated with a 2-fold increase in the risk of periprocedural complications in patients with sigmoid esophagus (83). Data regarding outcomes of esophagectomy for end-stage achalasia comes from observational and cohort studies because no randomized trials were published on this topic. A recently conducted meta-analysis looked at the outcomes of esophagectomy in advanced achalasia but did not include direct comparisons with endoscopic or surgical myotomy, account for natural disease history, age at onset of achalasia, time elapsed to reach the end-stage disease phenotype, or specify the number and type of previous treatment interventions (84). Esophagectomy was associated with high incidence of postoperative respiratory complications including pneumonia (10%, 95% CI: 4%–18%), but the intervention showed reasonably low mortality in carefully selected individuals treated at highly specialized surgical centers (2%, 95% CI: 1%–3%). Recommendation 11. Therefore, based on these limited data, we recommend esophagectomy in surgically-fit patients with megaesophagus who have failed other interventions. No recommendations can be made regarding type of surgical approach and esophageal substitute (stomach vs colon) because of the small number of subjects included in existing studies and their significant heterogeneity. However, an extensive review on this topic found that gastric interposition is the first choice of therapy in most patients undergoing esophagectomy (85). Self-expanding stents There is a small body of low-quality evidence supporting the use of
