HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, achalasia, author, manuscript, author manuscript, myotomy, poem, treatment, manuscript author, esophageal, lhm, studies, toxin, study, botulinum


found that gastric interposition is the first choice of therapy in most patients undergoing esophagectomy (85). Self-expanding stents There is a small body of low-quality evidence supporting the use of self-expanding metallic stents (SEMS) as effective treatment for achalasia (86–88). Thirty millimeter temporary Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 February 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript SEMS seemed to have superior long-term clinical efficacy in patients with achalasia compared with 20- and 25-mm stents. Higher symptom remission rates were seen for subjects treated with metal stents compared with botulinum toxin injection (49.1% vs 4.2%) as assessed after a 36-month follow-up period (87). Botulinum toxin injection was not associated with any complications, but individuals treated by SEMS reported chest pain and regurgitation. Stent migration was relatively rare, likely because of baseline esophageal aperistalsis that is observed in patients with achalasia. The primary limitation for use of SEMS in achalasia stems from the fact that this intervention is a temporary measure which does not provide definitive treatment. Furthermore, SEMS used in the study by Dai et al. (87) were highly specialized, and they are not widely available outside of China. To management of patients with achalasia. Recommendation 12. Despite low-quality data, we recommend against stent placement for the management of long-term dysphagia in patients with achalasia. Comparative effectiveness of therapeutic modalities PD vs medical therapy.—There are no head-to-head comparison studies of most pharmacotherapy agents and other more definite therapies of PD, LHM, or POEM. Most studies with these agents are either case series or case control designed studies with only a few randomized trials comparing their efficacy with placebo. Only 1 prospective observational study compared dilation with less effective Rider-Moeller dilators to sublingual nifedipine showing similar efficacy (37). Despite the lack of comparative trials and based on many studies using the more definitive therapies in achalasia, it is generally accepted that pharmacotherapy is less effective, given shorter duration of action, poor benefit in esophageal emptying, and symptom relief in achalasia (32). Recommendation 13. We recommend that PD is superior to medical therapy in relieving symptoms and physiologic parameters of esophageal emptying. Medical therapy is thus recommended only for patients with achalasia who are not candidates for definitive therapies of PD, LHM, or POEM. PD vs endoscopic Botulinum toxin injection.—Randomized controlled trials have compared the effectiveness of these 2 treatment options in achalasia. For instance, a study
