HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, achalasia, author, manuscript, author manuscript, myotomy, poem, treatment, manuscript author, esophageal, lhm, studies, toxin, study, botulinum


POEM and 82% for LHM. A 2018 systematic review and meta-analysis compared outcomes among 1,958 patients undergoing POEM and 5,834 patients undergoing surgical myotomy and found that at 12 months after treatment, predicted probabilities for improvement in dysphagia were 93.5% for POEM and 91.0% for surgical myotomy (P = 0.01), and at 24 months after treatment were92.7% for POEM and 90.0% for LHM (P Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 February 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript = 0.01) (81). A 2017 systematic review and meta-analysis found a significantly higher 46.80, P < 0.01) (112). No significant difference was found in operative time, complication nonrandomized studies that have compared POEM and surgical myotomy (113–116). These studies illustrate similar outcomes to somewhat of an advantage in efficacy for POEM over surgical myotomy; in some studies, however, metrics assessed and duration of treatment response measured vary. Long-term, randomized studies are needed to compare these treatment modalities. Recommendation 16. We recommend that POEM and LHM result in comparable symptomatic improvement in patients with achalasia. POST-THERAPY ASSESSMENT Treatment failure is typically determined by the recurrence of symptoms typically measured by the symptom score using the ES; however, this approach has been questioned in the era of patient-reported outcome (PRO) development, and the findings that bolus retention post- treatment has some degree of discordance with the ES (117,118). The cause for continued or recurrent symptoms in patients with achalasia after definitive therapy may be related to incomplete disruption of the LES (myotomy and dilation), anatomical distortion related to dilatation, tortuosity, diverticulum formation, GERD, and presence of spastic contractions (119). Eckardt score The ES is a simple metric designed to follow outcomes after achalasia intervention and currently is the standard metric used in almost all treatment trials (91,106). The widespread utilization of this tool was based on expert opinion, and over the past decade, the ES has been preferred over the Vantrappen classification and the Modified Achalasia Dysphagia Score (120,121). The score focuses on the 3 main symptoms associated with achalasia— dysphagia, regurgitation, and chest pain—and also assesses weight loss as a marker of the ability for the patient to maintain nutrition. Each of the 4 components are equally weighted and scored from 0 to 3 for a cumulative range of 0–12, and a threshold value of greater than 3 is considered to be a suboptimal outcome (122). Most treatment
