HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, achalasia, author, manuscript, author manuscript, myotomy, poem, treatment, manuscript author, esophageal, lhm, studies, toxin, study, botulinum


and scored from 0 to 3 for a cumulative range of 0–12, and a threshold value of greater than 3 is considered to be a suboptimal outcome (122). Most treatment studies show that the ES will improve after intervention, and higher scores after intervention are associated with more symptoms and the likelihood to proceed with repeat intervention. Unfortunately, the ES was developed before the defined criteria for a PRO were developed by the FDA that supported a 3-step procedure to adequately validate a PRO for treatment trials as follows: (i) initial patient interviews/focus groups to generate scale items, (ii) administering the scale to a large and representative sample of patients, and (iii) reviewing the scale items via structured cognitive interviews with an additional small cohort of target patients. Recently, Taft et al. (123) systematically assessed the factor structure, reliability, and construct validity of the ES and concluded that this score performed at a marginal level for reliability and validity and Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 February 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript that most of the score could be explained by the dysphagia component alone. This study also suggested that the chest pain and weight loss component were decreasing the performance of the ES. Based on these results, it seems that the ES alone is not sufficient to follow treatment success and define failure. Thus, assessment of treatment failure should be revisited and may require development of a new PRO. High-resolution manometry determine which of these causes are affecting the patient, and thus, further diagnostic testing is warranted outside of instances where the patient has heartburn and a PPI trial is attempted. High-resolution manometry can assess the completeness of myotomy and also determine whether spastic contractions are present after treatment; however, it is unable to determine bolus retention accurately, assess the contribution of GERD, and the procedure may be difficult because of obstruction and abnormal anatomy. Timed barium esophagram Timed barium esophagram (TBE) (Figure 7) can determine whether there is bolus retention, and it can be enhanced with a barium tablet to determine whether retention is related to obstruction at the EGJ or potentially distorted anatomy. TBE is an important tool in the diagnosis of achalasia and post-therapy assessment of treatment success (116,117). Before therapy, most patients have retained barium at 1-, 2-, and 5-minutes after the ingestion of a large barium bolus
