HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, achalasia, author, manuscript, author manuscript, myotomy, poem, treatment, manuscript author, esophageal, lhm, studies, toxin, study, botulinum


diagnosis of achalasia and post-therapy assessment of treatment success (116,117). Before therapy, most patients have retained barium at 1-, 2-, and 5-minutes after the ingestion of a large barium bolus (Figure 7a) which after successful intervention TBE is expected to show complete esophageal emptying at 1-minute post-ingestion (Figure 7b). Overall, there are no studies that compare HRM with TBE head to head in assessing treatment failures in achalasia in a random controlled design. Most studies are blinded comparator studies assessing the predictive value of HRM or new impedance and FLIP measures vs TBE using the ES as the outcome of interest (29,124). These studies have suggested that barium esophagram after intervention is a useful tool to assess outcome and requirement for therapy (117,125,126); however, there are also other studies that argue against this predictive value (127,128). The data are poor regarding HRM as a predictive tool in assessing treatment failure and prognostic requirements of repeat intervention. Recommendation 17. In conclusion, we recommend that ES or HRM alone not be used to define treatment failure. We recommend using TBE as the first-line test in evaluating continued or recurrent symptoms after definitive therapy for achalasia. Patients with recurrent symptoms should be evaluated with objective testing, and patients with improvement in symptoms and continued evidence of retention (barium column > 5 cm at 5 minutes) should be followed closely and potentially offered treatment if retention worsens or dilatation increases. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 February 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript MANAGEMENT OF FAILED THERAPY OR RECURRENT DISEASE PD after initial LHM or POEM The failure rate for Heller myotomy and POEM over 1–3 years can be anywhere from 5% to 30% and higher when follow-up is extended to 10 years and beyond. The mechanism for failure of myotomy during Heller myotomy and POEM can be related to an incomplete myotomy, scarring, and other factors related to anatomical distortion. Post-fundoplication issues may arise with Heller myotomy when an antireflux surgery is added to the operation, and this can be related to a tight wrap or herniation. PD is an attractive treatment for myotomy failures because it spares the patient another more invasive procedure and can address an incomplete myotomy, scarring, and a tight fundoplication. Whether this approach is superior or equal to redo myotomy with either a redo-Heller myotomy or a redo-POEM is unclear because there
