HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, achalasia, author, manuscript, author manuscript, myotomy, poem, treatment, manuscript author, esophageal, lhm, studies, toxin, study, botulinum


an incomplete myotomy, scarring, and a tight fundoplication. Whether this approach is superior or equal to redo myotomy with either a redo-Heller myotomy or a redo-POEM is unclear because there are no randomized or controlled studies assessing these different approaches in patients with myotomy failure. In patients who have failed definitive therapy with LHM or POEM who continue to be candidates for repeat intervention, all 3 options of PD, LHM, and POEM are reasonable approaches. Given previous interventions with LHM or POEM, the question of safety of PD in this group is often raised. Based on retrospective observational studies (129–133) and 1 systematic review (134), PD seems to be safe and effective. In the systematic review, 87 patients post failed LHM underwent repeat treatment with PD. The mean number of pneumatic dilations performed in this group was 2.5 (range 1–3) with mean interval between dilations of 26 months (range: 0–144). The success rate with PD in this group was 89%, and reported complications related with PD was extremely low. Thus, PD could be an effective therapy in those with failed LHM. Reports on PD post-POEM are scarce, but based on retrospective observational studies (135,136), PD seems to be safe if patients fail POEM as the initial definitive therapy. Future larger scale data are needed in this group, but given the long-term experience for those who failed LHM, we expect that PD would continue to be a robust option in this difficult group of patients. Recommendation 18. We recommend that PD is an appropriate and safe treatment option for patients with achalasia postinitial surgical myotomy or POEM in need of retreatment. LHM after PD or POEM Many patients with refractory achalasia or end-stage achalasia defined by barium esophagram features of severe dilatation (width > 6 cm) and complicated anatomical distortion (sink-trap) have severe symptoms and life-threatening complications, and thus, action must be taken to avoid aspiration, malnutrition, and death (85). Unfortunately, esophagectomy is associated with a high rate of complications and a real risk of death (84,137). In addition, quality of life after esophagectomy is diminished, and thus, this approach should be considered a last resort, and most patients and physicians would prefer an attempt at more conservative treatment. For patients who have failed PD and POEM, it may still be reasonable to attempt Heller myotomy before referral for esophagectomy based on a case series where patients with severe end-stage disease
