HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, achalasia, author, manuscript, author manuscript, myotomy, poem, treatment, manuscript author, esophageal, lhm, studies, toxin, study, botulinum


who have failed PD and POEM, it may still be reasonable to attempt Heller myotomy before referral for esophagectomy based on a case series where patients with severe end-stage disease may respond to surgery Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 February 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript (135,138–140). One must realize that the success rate is still much lower than in patients with more favorable anatomy and no previous definitive therapy. A thorough workup comprising an assessment of anatomy with barium esophagram, upper endoscopy to assess esophagitis and stricture, and potentially manometry or FLIP to assess LES function may provide evidence that targeted therapy at the LES may be effective. Patients with severe anatomy, significant bolus retention, and evidence of a complete myotomy could be referred for esophagectomy, whereas patients with evidence of incomplete myotomy may be offered Heller myotomy. In the end, this decision is extremely difficult, and the approach will require a comprehensive evaluation and an informed discussion focused on the risks and benefits. Patients who require esophagectomy should be referred to high-volume referral centers because outcomes are directly related to volume and expertise. Recommendation 19. We recommend that Heller myotomy be considered before esophagectomy in patients who have failed PD and POEM if the anatomy is conducive and there is evidence of incomplete myotomy. This recommendation is based primarily on the morbidity and mortality of esophagectomy and is only supported by small case series in heterogeneous patient populations. POEM after PD or LHM There are limited data available regarding how to treat patients with recurrent symptoms of achalasia who have previously undergone PD or LHM. Tyberg and colleagues published the results of a prospective registry of patients from 13 centers, of which 51 patients had previously undergone LHM and subsequently underwent POEM (141). Mean time between LHM and POEM was 9.5 years (range 2 months–56 years). Ninety-four percent of these patients were reported to have achieved clinical success as defined by an ES of ≤3 on the 12-month follow-up, with a mean change of ES of 6.25. Seven of these patients had adverse events with 2 with mediastinitis treated conservatively and 6 with a periprocedural mucosal defect treated endoscopically. This study showed that POEM as salvage therapy for recurrent symptoms after previous LHM has been shown to have good short-term efficacy. A retrospective cohort study published in 2017 incorporated 90 patients
