HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, achalasia, author, manuscript, author manuscript, myotomy, poem, treatment, manuscript author, esophageal, lhm, studies, toxin, study, botulinum


primary achalasia treatment. A 2017 systematic review and meta-analysis reported a higher incidence of 312.4 cases per 100,000 patient years at risk for squamous cell carcinoma and 21.23 cases per 100,000 patient years at risk for adenocarcinoma (148). There is evidence that the risk of esophageal adenocarcinoma is also increased in achalasia; however, this is substantially lower than the risk for squamous cell carcinoma. The presumed mechanism for esophageal malignancy in achalasia is because of poor esophageal emptying, with resultant stasis and inflammation leading to dysplasia and the development of esophageal carcinoma. Despite these risks, there are limited data to support routine screening for cancer in patients with achalasia. The overall number of cancers remains low, and estimates have suggested that over 400 endoscopies would be required to detect one cancer (149). These numbers are further tempered by the fact that the survival of these patients is poor, once the diagnosis is made (146). Thus, the most recent American Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy guidelines report that surveillance strategies have failed to demonstrate improved survival and cannot be recommended based on current evidence (150). However, there may be additional benefits to surveillance beyond the cancer risk that may make endoscopic surveillance reasonable. For instance, patients with achalasia are still at risk of progression to megaesophagus, and following symptoms may not be sufficient to determine whether patients may be at risk for disease progression. Given these issues and the lack of a good predictive biomarker, many experts are in favor of some form of endoscopic or radiographic surveillance in patients with achalasia at an interval of every 3 years if the disease has been present for more than 10–15 years (151). However, further studies are required to determine whether surveillance strategies with defined intervals or new endoscopic techniques will improve overall outcomes. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 February 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Recommendation 21. We recommend against routine endoscopic surveillance for esophageal carcinoma in patients with achalasia. TREATMENT ALGORITHM A reasonable tailored treatment algorithm for patients with achalasia and no previous therapy is outlined in Figure 8. Symptomatic patients with suspected achalasia should undergo upper endoscopy to ensure no other pathology and to rule out pseudoachalasia. HRM and timed barium swallow should be used to confirm the diagnosis. The choice between the therapeutic modalities depends on manometric subtypes of achalasia, patient preference, and
