Lymphadenopathy
KEYWORDS: adenopathy, infection, nodes, findings, node, lymphadenopathy, generalized, history, fever, causes, infections, patients, testing, cause, cervical


Lymphadenopathy is palpable enlargement of ≥ 1 lymph nodes. Diagnosis is clinical. Treatment is of the causative disorder. (See also Overview of the Lymphatic System.) Lymph nodes are present throughout the body and may be superficial or deep. Particular collections of superficial lymph nodes are present in the neck, axillae, and inguinal region; a few small (< 1 cm) nodes often are palpable in those areas in healthy people. Lymphadenopathy is palpable enlargement (> 1 cm) of ≥ 1 lymph nodes; it is categorized as Localized: When present in only 1 body area Generalized: When present in ≥ 2 body areas Lymphadenitis is lymphadenopathy with pain and/or signs of inflammation (eg, erythema [more subtle on dark skin], tenderness). Other symptoms may be present depending on the underlying disorder. Pathophysiology of Lymphadenopathy Some plasma and cells (eg, cancer cells, infectious microorganisms) in the interstitial space, along with certain cellular material, antigens, and foreign particles enter lymphatic vessels, becoming lymphatic fluid. Lymph nodes filter the lymphatic fluid on its way to the central venous circulation, removing cells and other material. The filtering process also presents antigens to the lymphocytes contained within the nodes. The immune response from these lymphocytes involves cellular proliferation, which can cause the nodes to enlarge (reactive lymphadenopathy). Pathogenic microorganisms carried in the lymphatic fluid can directly infect the nodes, causing lymphadenitis, and cancer cells may lodge in and proliferate in the nodes. Etiology of Lymphadenopathy Because lymph nodes participate in the body's immune response, a large number of infectious and inflammatory disorders and cancers are potential causes (see table Some Causes of Lymphadenopathy). Only the more common causes are discussed here. Causes most likely vary depending on patient age, associated findings, and risk factors, but overall the most common causes are Idiopathic, self-limited Upper respiratory infections (URI) Local soft-tissue infections The most dangerous causes are Cancer HIV infection Tuberculosis (TB) However, most cases represent benign disorders or clinically obvious local infections. Approximately 1% of undifferentiated cases presenting for primary care involve cancer (1). TABLE Some Causes of Lymphadenopathy Cause Suggestive Findings Diagnostic Approach Cancers Fatigue, fever, weight loss, Leukemias (typically Complete blood count, splenomegaly chronic and sometimes peripheral smear, flow With acute leukemia, often acute lymphocytic cytometry, bone marrow easy bruising and/or leukemia) examination bleeding Painless adenopathy (local or generalized), often rubbery, sometimes Lymph node biopsy and Lymphomas matted flow cytometry Often fever, night sweats, weight loss, splenomegaly
