Lymphadenopathy
KEYWORDS: adenopathy, infection, nodes, findings, node, lymphadenopathy, generalized, history, fever, causes, infections, patients, testing, cause, cervical


Middle East for brucellosis, American Southwest for plague) and possible exposures (eg, cat feces for toxoplasmosis, farm animals for brucellosis, wild animals for tularemia). Medication history is reviewed for specific known causative agents. 6/9 Physical examination Vital signs are reviewed for fever. Areas of particular lymph node concentration in the neck (including occipital and supraclavicular areas), axillae, and inguinal region are palpated. Node size, tenderness, and consistency are noted as well as whether the nodes are freely mobile or fixed to adjacent tissue. Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma (Cervical Lymphadenopathy) Skin is inspected for rash and lesions, with particular attention to areas drained by the affected nodes. The oropharynx is inspected and palpated for signs of infection and any lesions that may be cancerous. The thyroid gland is palpated for enlargement and nodularity. Breasts (including in males) are palpated for lumps. Lungs are auscultated for crackles (suggesting sarcoidosis or infection). Abdomen is palpated for hepatomegaly and splenomegaly. Genitals are examined for chancres, vesicles, and other lesions, and for urethral discharge. Joints are examined for signs of inflammation. Red flags Cervical or inguinal node > 2 cm or any palpable supraclavicular or axillary node regardless of size Node that is draining, hard, or fixed to underlying tissue Risk factors for HIV or TB Fever and/or weight loss Splenomegaly Interpretation of findings Patients with generalized adenopathy usually have a systemic disorder. However, patients with localized adenopathy may have a local or systemic disorder (including one that often causes generalized adenopathy). 7/9 Sometimes, history and physical examination suggest a cause (see table Some Causes of Lymphadenopathy) and may be diagnostic in patients with a clear viral upper respiratory infection or with local soft-tissue or dental infection. In other cases, findings (such as the red flag findings) are of concern but do not point to a single cause. Cervical or inguinal nodes that are hard, markedly enlarged (> 2 cm—[1]), and/or fixed to adjacent tissue are concerning for cancer, particularly in patients who have had prolonged use of tobacco and/or alcohol. However, any palpable supraclavicular or axillary node not ascribable to infection regardless of size, should prompt concern about possible intrathoracic or breast cancer. Marked tenderness, erythema, and warmth in a single enlarged node may be due to a suppurative node infection (eg, due to staphylococcus or streptococcus). Fever may occur with many of the infectious, malignant, and systemic rheumatic disorders. Splenomegaly can occur with mononucleosis, toxoplasmosis,
