Lymphadenopathy
KEYWORDS: adenopathy, infection, nodes, findings, node, lymphadenopathy, generalized, history, fever, causes, infections, patients, testing, cause, cervical


to a suppurative node infection (eg, due to staphylococcus or streptococcus). Fever may occur with many of the infectious, malignant, and systemic rheumatic disorders. Splenomegaly can occur with mononucleosis, toxoplasmosis, leukemia, and lymphoma. Weight loss occurs with TB and cancer. Risk factors and travel and exposure history are at best suggestive. Finally, adenopathy can have a serious cause in patients who have no other manifestations of illness. Testing If a specific disorder is suspected (eg, mononucleosis in a young patient with fever, sore throat, and splenomegaly), initial testing is directed at clinically indicated tests for that condition (see table Some Causes of Lymphadenopathy). If history and physical examination do not show a likely cause, further evaluation depends on the nodes involved and the other findings present. Patients with unexplained red flag findings and those with generalized adenopathy should have a complete blood count (CBC) and chest radiograph. If abnormal white blood cells are seen on CBC, a peripheral smear and flow cytometry are done to evaluate for leukemia or lymphoma. For generalized adenopathy, most clinicians usually also do a tuberculin skin test (or interferon-gamma release assay) and serologic tests for HIV, mononucleosis, and perhaps toxoplasmosis and syphilis. Patients with joint symptoms or rash should have antinuclear antibody testing for systemic lupus erythematosus. Most clinicians believe patients with newly identified localized or generalized adenopathy and no other findings can safely be observed for 3 to 4 weeks, unless cancer is suspected. If cancer is suspected, patients typically require computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the area as clinically indicated and, depending on the findings, should have biopsy of the node and any abnormal tissue. Biopsy is also considered if isolated or generalized adenopathy does not resolve in 3 to 4 weeks (2). Treatment of Lymphadenopathy Primary treatment is directed at the cause; adenopathy itself is not treated. A trial of corticosteroids is not done for adenopathy of unknown etiology because corticosteroids can reduce adenopathy caused by leukemia and lymphoma and thus delay diagnosis, and corticosteroids can exacerbate TB. A trial of antibiotics is also not indicated, except when a suppurative lymph node infection is suspected. Key Points Most cases are idiopathic and self limited or result from clinically apparent local causes. Initial testing should be done if there are red flag findings, if other manifestations or risk factors suggest a specific disorder, or when generalized adenopathy has no
