British Journal of Cancer(2001) 84 (Supplement 2), 74–77
KEYWORDS: standard, treatment, hcc, liver, child pugh, pugh, standard standard, child, option, considered, therapy, options, centre, level, hormone


British Journal of Cancer(2001) 84 (Supplement 2), 74–77 ©2001 FNCLCC doi: 10.1054/ bjoc.2001.1769, available online at on Hepatocellular carcinoma M Giovannini1, D Elias2, G Monges1, JL Raoul3and P Rougier4 1Institut Paoli-Calmettes, Marseille; 2Institut Gustave Roussy, Villejuif; 3Centre Eugène Marquis, Rennes; 4Hôpital Anbroise Paré, Boulogne, France The incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has been rising or grade of HCC. This can be done according to the grading of steadily and varies between 2 and 5 per 100000 per year in Europe Edmonson or following the recommendations of the WHO and the USA. These tumours are associated with cirrhosis in 80% (option). The standard classification for patients having a surgical of cases. resection is the TNM classification, where multiple tumours, The major goals in this disease are to clarify the natural history large-diameter tumours and the invasion of vasculature and nodes of HCC, to evaluate the efficacy of a wide range of treatments and are adverse prognostic factors. The associated pathological stan- to carry out controlled trials in order to define which treatments are dard is the classification of Child–Pugh. For non-operable These recommendations relate to the management of primary This is useful but not without problems. hepatocellular carcinoma and its variants (e.g. fibrolamellar, clear cell and giant cell carcinoma) in both cirrhotic and normal livers. TREATMENT MODALITIES These guidelines were validated in June 1999 by the working group and an update is planned for 2001. Resection is indicated for HCC in a cirrhotic liver when the tumour is single and non-metastatic and if there is no portal inva- sion (level of evidence C). The liver function must allow for the DIAGNOSIS type of excision necessary according to the localization and size of With the exception of the cirrhotic patient with an alpha- the tumour. The majority of teams will undertake liver transplanta- fetoprotein (AFP) level greater than 500mg ml–1, the diagnosis of tion for unifocal HCC of less than 3cm in diameters that is hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is based on the histopathological secondary to cirrhosis and has been discovered by chance. examination of one or more liver sample. These are obtained at In the case of HCC in a healthy liver, excision by partial hepat- open surgery, by laparoscopy or by ultrasound or CT scan-guided ectomy is the only surgical modality to be considered. It should be biopsy (standard). Fine-needle aspiration for cytology is an option undertaken where there is no
