British Journal of Cancer(2001) 84 (Supplement 2), 74–77
KEYWORDS: standard, treatment, hcc, liver, child pugh, pugh, standard standard, child, option, considered, therapy, options, centre, level, hormone


ultrasound or CT scan-guided ectomy is the only surgical modality to be considered. It should be biopsy (standard). Fine-needle aspiration for cytology is an option undertaken where there is no vascular involvement, no extra- for the diagnosis of HCC and can be considered if a liver biopsy is hepatic spread and when the tumour is uni-focal. Elective incom- not possible. The ease of diagnosis depends on the quality and plete excision should be avoided. Percutaneous techniques nature of the biopsy specimens and the histologic type of the (intratumoral injections of absolute alcohol or acetic acid) or ultra- lesions. If the level of AFP is normal in a cirrhotic patient, the sonic thermo-ablation are alternatives when surgery is not possible level of gamma-carboxyprothrombin (in patients without a (level of evidence C). Randomized studies are necessary to deter- Vitamin K deficiency) can be measured (option). mine the exact place of these techniques in the treatment of HCC as compared to surgery and other techniques of local treatment. Chemo-embolization is not recommended for the treatment of STAGING HCC (option, level of evidence B). This therapy has no proven Assessment of locoregional extension depends on clinical exami- benefit with respect to survival over no therapy or systemic nation, liver ultrasonography and hepatic CT scanning (standard). chemotherapy. This technique must be evaluated within random- MRI of the liver is an option. Standard investigations to assess ized trials of adjuvant or neoadjuvant treatment. distant spread include a chest X-ray (CXR), a spiral CT and a bone ‘In situ’ radiotherapy is an option for the treatment of inoper- scan if this is clinically indicated. If a liver transplant is planned able patients with portal thrombosis (level of evidence C). and the CXR is normal, a thoracic CT scan should be done. The Chemotherapy represents an area of research for the treatment evaluation of hepatic function depends on liver enzyme levels, of inoperable HCC, but the results to date are inferior to those of serum albumin and a coagulation screen (standard). Endoscopy other treatment modalities. must be undertaken in the case of hepatic cirrhosis to exclude the Immunotherapy is an option for the treatment of inoperable presence of oesophagogastric varices (standard). In the case of hepatocellular carcinoma (level of evidence C). It has questionable diagnostic difficulty in differentiating an adenoma, a cholangio- efficacy when compared to systemic chemotherapy. It place as carcinoma or a metastatic lesion, immunohistochemical staining
