British Journal of Cancer(2001) 84 (Supplement 2), 74–77
KEYWORDS: standard, treatment, hcc, liver, child pugh, pugh, standard standard, child, option, considered, therapy, options, centre, level, hormone


of evidence C). It has questionable diagnostic difficulty in differentiating an adenoma, a cholangio- efficacy when compared to systemic chemotherapy. It place as carcinoma or a metastatic lesion, immunohistochemical staining to adjuvant treatment within complex therapeutic strategies must be identify keratin subtypes and/or reticulin staining can be consid- evaluated in randomized trials. ered. Hormone therapy represents an option for palliative treatment in patients with inoperable or metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma in whom neither percutaneous techniques, chemo-embolization, nor CLASSIFICATION in situ radiotherapy are possible (level of evidence C). The place Primary HCC is classified according to the WHO classification of somatostatin must be confirmed by prospective randomized (standard). There is no standard classification for the differentiation trials. Hepatocellular carcinoma 75 SINGLE LESION NON-METASTATIC HCC IN A CIRRHOTIC LIVER yes no < 5 cm? CHILD- PUGH CHILD- PUGH CHILD- PUGH CHILD- PUGH CHILD- PUGH A B C A and B C Standard Standard Standard Standard Standard there is no standard there is no standard there is no standard there is no standard there is no standard Options Options Options Options Options • surgical resection • liver transplant • liver transplant • surgical reaction • hormone therapy • liver transplant • percutaneous • percutaneous • chemo-embolization • symptomatic • percutaneous techniques techniques • radioactive lipioidol treatment • techniques • radioactive lipioidol • hormone therapy • hormone therapy • symptomatic • symptomatic treatment treatment Figure 1 Unifocal HCC in a cirrhotic liver THERAPEUTIC STRATEGY Child–Pugh C disease The objective of treatment is palliation. There is no standard therapy. Hormone therapy or best supportive care can be considered (option). HCC in a cirrhotic liver The objective of treatment in these patients is to improve survival Multifocal HCC without portal thrombosis and/or to provide palliation. There are no standard therapeutic approaches. Child–Pugh A and B If there are less or equal to three lesions of less than 5cm in diameter, surgical resection, transplantation Unifocal HCC (Single lesion HCC <5cm maximum and percutaneous procedures can be considered (Figure 2). In other cases, chemo-embolization or radioactive lipioidal injections diameter) can be considered (option). Surgical excision is recommended for peripheral tumours (level of evidence C), hepatic transplantation Child–Pugh A disease Surgical excision, hepatic transplan- for central tumours and percutaneous techniques for microtumours tation and percutaneous techniques can be considered (options) (tumours of less than 5cm diameter) (level of evidence C). (Figure 1). It is recommended that surgical excision be undertaken
