British Journal of Cancer(2001) 84 (Supplement 2), 74–77
KEYWORDS: standard, treatment, hcc, liver, child pugh, pugh, standard standard, child, option, considered, therapy, options, centre, level, hormone


for microtumours tation and percutaneous techniques can be considered (options) (tumours of less than 5cm diameter) (level of evidence C). (Figure 1). It is recommended that surgical excision be undertaken if at all possible and within a specialist setting (level of evidence Child–Pugh C disease The objective of treatment in the C). The role of adjuvant treatment remains to be established. management of these patients is palliation. Hormone therapy or symptomatic management alone can be considered (option) Child–Pugh B disease Hepatic transplantation, percutaneous (Figure 2). techniques, the use of radioactive lipioidal or chemo-embolization can be considered (option) (Figure 1). It is recommended that the place of hepatic transplantation be evaluated within a formal Multifocal HCC with portal thrombosis protocol. Any surgery must be undertaken within a specialist setting (level of evidence C). In the case of a Child–Pugh B lesion of small size, percutaneous techniques are recommended (level of Child–Pugh A and B disease These patients have inoperable evidence C). disease. Radioactive lipioidal, chemo-lipioidal (without emboliza- tion) and external-beam irradiation (for lateral tumours) can be Child–Pugh C disease Hepatic transplantation, hormone considered (option). therapy or best supportive care can be considered (option). Child–Pugh C disease The objective of treatment is palliation. Unifocal HCC (Single lesion HCC > 5cm maximum Hormone therapy or symptomatic care can be considered (option). diameter) Metastatic HCC Child–Pugh A and B disease Liver resection, chemo- Child–Pugh A and B disease The objective of treatment is embolization (±alcohol injection) and radioactive lipioidal can be palliation. Chemotherapy, hormone therapy or symptomatic care considered. If at all possible, resection should be undertaken can be considered (option) (Figure 3). Inclusion in ongoing thera- within a specialist centre (level of evidenceC). peutic trials is recommended. ©2001 FNCLCC British Journal of Cancer (2001) 84(Supplement 2), 74–77 76 M Giovannini et al MULTIFOCAL NON-METASTATIC HCC IN A CIRRHOTIC LIVER yes no Portal thrombosis? CHILD- PUGH CHILD- PUGH CHILD- PUGH CHILD- PUGH A and B C A and B C Standard Standard Standard there is no standard there is no standard there is no standard Options Options Options • radioactive lipioidol • hormone therapy • hormone therapy • chemolipioidol without • symptomatic • symptomatic embolization treatment treatment • extemal-beam radiotherapy (lateral tumours) no Diameter yes < 5 cm, N < 3? Standard Standard there is no standard there is no standard Options Options • chemo-embolization • alcoholization • radioactive lipioidol • surgical resection •
