Cellular Uptake of Thyroid Hormones
KEYWORDS: thyroid, transporter, transport, hormone, transporters, thyroid hormone, brain, human, mutations, visser, mice, uptake, amino, monocarboxylate, acid


ABSTRACT The biological activity of thyroid hormone (TH) is regulated at the target tissue level by two important processes, i.e. deiodination and plasma membrane transport. The first process involves the expression of the deiodinase D2, which converts the prohormone T4 to bioactive T3, and/or of the deiodinase D3 which converts both T4 and T3 to inactive metabolites. Intracellular metabolism and action of TH in target cells as well as transcellular TH transport across, for instance, the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and the intestinal wall depends on the expression of transporters facilitating uptake and/or efflux of iodothyronines. Recently, several important TH transporters have been identified, including monocarboxylate transporter 8 (MCT8), MCT10 and organic anion transporting polypeptide 1C1 (OATP1C1). The physiological relevance of MCT8 has been demonstrated in studies of male patients with the Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome, characterized by severe psychomotor retardation and abnormal TH levels caused by hemizygous mutations of the X-linked MCT8 gene. In human brain, MCT8 appears to be important in particular for T4 and T3 transport across the BBB and for T3 uptake in neurons, whereas OATP1C1 is predominantly involved in T4 uptake in astrocytes to allow its conversion to T3 by D2 also expressed in these cells. MCT10 also transports aromatic amino acids and its physiological role in tissue TH transport remains to be established. For complete coverage of this and related areas of Endocrinology, visit our free web-book, www.thyroidmanager.org . INTRODUCTION It was thought for a long time that thyroid hormone (TH) crosses the plasma membrane of tissue cells by simple diffusion since iodothyronines are lipophilic compounds which would easily pass the lipid bilayer of the plasma membrane. However, it has become increasingly clear that diffusion plays a minor role, if any, in TH transport across the plasma membrane. Rather, TH is transported into cells by specific carrier-mediated mechanisms. In the second half of the 20 th century, many studies have been published about the biochemical characterization of TH transport mechanisms in a variety of cell types. In general, these studies have indicated that cellular TH transport is a saturable process which in liver cells may be Na + dependent and in other cell types may be inhibited by aromatic and/or aliphatic amino acids. Early studies of cellular TH transport have been extensively reviewed in 2001 (1) and only some of them will be mentioned here. About 80% of circulating T3 is produced outside the thyroid gland by
