Cellular Uptake of Thyroid Hormones
KEYWORDS: thyroid, transporter, transport, hormone, transporters, thyroid hormone, brain, human, mutations, visser, mice, uptake, amino, monocarboxylate, acid


TH transport have been extensively reviewed in 2001 (1) and only some of them will be mentioned here. About 80% of circulating T3 is produced outside the thyroid gland by peripheral conversion of T4, and only 20% is directly secreted by the thyroid gland (2). T3 is considered to be the major bioactive TH, whereas T4 is mainly a prohormone that becomes activated upon its conversion to T3 (2). Most TH actions are initiated by binding of T3 to its nuclear receptors in target cells (3,4). Therefore, the biological activity of TH is determined largely by the intracellular T3 concentration, which depends on a) the circulating concentration of T3 and its precursor T4; b) the activities of deiodinases that catalyze the production (D1, D2) or degradation (D1,D3) of T3; and c) the activities of transporters which mediate the cellular uptake or efflux of T3 and T4 ( Fig. 1 ). It should be noted that TH bioactivity may be regulated in an autocrine fashion as shown in Fig. 1 , or in a paracrine fashion, where T3 production and action take place in the same cell or in separate cells, respectively. Fig. 1 Thyroid hormone transport, metabolism and action in a target cell. Recently, three relatively specific TH transporters have been identified. OATP1C1 is a member of the organic anion transporting polypeptide family, which shows preference for T4 above T3, and is expressed almost exclusively in brain (5). In human brain, OATP1C1 is importantly expressed in astrocytes, where it facilitates entry of T4 allowing its conversion to T3 also expressed in these cells (6). MCT8 and MCT10 are members of the monocarboxylate transporter family. While MCT10 is also known to transport aromatic amino acids, no other substrates have been identified for MCT8 than iodothyronines and iodotyrosines (7-9). MCT8 and MCT10 are expressed in various tissues (10). In human brain, MCT8 is importantly expressed in endothelial cells of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) as well as in neurons (6). Mutations in the MCT8 transporter have been identified in male patients with the Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome, characterized by severe X-linked psychomotor retardation and elevated serum T3 levels (11-14). THYROID HORMONE TRANSPORTERS: Organic Anion Transporters Organic anion transporting polypeptides (OATPs) represent a large family of homologous proteins, many of which have been shown to transport different iodothyronines and their sulfate conjugates ( Table 1 ) (15-17). The genes coding for these transporters are now referred
