Cellular Uptake of Thyroid Hormones
KEYWORDS: thyroid, transporter, transport, hormone, transporters, thyroid hormone, brain, human, mutations, visser, mice, uptake, amino, monocarboxylate, acid


and mice (1B2). Therefore, mice and rats are not good animal models for TH transport by members of the OATP1A/B subfamily. Considering the different cellular distribution of OATP1C1 in human and mouse brain, the same precaution may also apply to this transporter. OATPs transport their substrates in a Na-independent manner. The solute carrier family 22 (SLC22) also contains many organic anion transporters (OATs) and organic cation transporters (OCTs) (24), but information about the possible transport of TH by any of these transporters has not been published. We have demonstrated that the Na-taurocholate co-transporting polypeptide (NTCP, SLC10A1) facilitates uptake of the different iodothyronines as well as their sulfates (25,26). The SLC10 family contains 7 members of which NTCP is expressed exclusively in liver (27-29). SLC10A2 is another bile acid transporter expressed in the intestine and kidney. SLC10A6 transports different organic anions but substrates for the other SLC10 transporters have not yet been identified. NTCP is the only SLC10 family member capable of transporting TH (26). Interestingly, NTCP has recently been identified as the receptor involved in the infection of liver cells by hepatitis B virus (HBV) and hepatitis D virus (HDV) (30). This NTCP-mediated internalization of HBV and HBD is specifically inhibited by the novel drug Myrcludex B, a synthetic peptide derived from the HBV/HBD surface protein preS1 (30). Myrcludex B also inhibits bile acid transport by NTCP (31,32) and it would be interesting to know if it affects TH transport into the liver. Clinical trials are now conducted with this drug in hepatitis B and D patients (33). Amino Acid Transporters Iodothyronines are a particular class of amino acids built from two tyrosine residues. Therefore, it is no surprise that amino acid transporters, in particular the L and T-type amino acid transporters, are involved in TH uptake into several tissues (34-38). L-type transporters mediate uptake of large neutral, branched-chain and aromatic amino acids, whereas T-type transporters are specific for the aromatic amino acids Phe, Tyr and Trp. Four L-type transporters (LAT1-4) have been identified, two of which (LAT1,2) belong to the heterodimeric amino acid transporter family. These transporters consist of a heavy chain and a light chain, linked through a disulfide bond (39). There are 2 possible heavy chains, SLC3A1 (rBAT) and SLC3A2 (4F2hc or CD98), and in humans there are 13 possible light chains belonging to the SLC7 gene family. The 4F2 or CD98 cell surface antigen is expressed
