Cellular Uptake of Thyroid Hormones
KEYWORDS: thyroid, transporter, transport, hormone, transporters, thyroid hormone, brain, human, mutations, visser, mice, uptake, amino, monocarboxylate, acid


of the short protein. Both MCT8 and MCT10 proteins have 12 putative transmembrane domains, with both N- and C-terminal ends located on the inside of the plasma membrane. The common amino acids in MCT8 and MCT10 are indicated in green in Fig. 2 , showing a high degree of homology in particular in the transmembrane domains. Unique to the MCT8 structure is the presence of PEST domains in the N-terminal intracellular part of the protein, rich in Pro (P), Glu (E), Ser (S) and Thr (T) residues. The function of these domains is unknown. MCT8 is expressed in many tissues, including human liver, kidney, heart, brain, placenta, adrenal gland, skeletal muscle, and thyroid. MCT10 also shows a wide tissue distribution, with particularly high expression in human skeletal muscle, intestine, kidney and pancreas (10). Fig. 2 Structure of the human MCT8 protein with 12 transmembrane domains. The blue lines represent the plasma membrane. The N- and C-terminal domains are located in the cytoplasm. The N-terminal extension of long vs. short MCT8 protein generated using the first or the second translation start site is indicated in yellow. The amino acid identity with human MCT10 is indicated in green. After the cloning of MCT8 in 1994 (61), no reports on the biological function or the transported substrates have been published until Friesema et al. identified rat MCT8 as a specific TH transporter (8). Expression of rat Mct8 in Xenopus oocytes induced a ~10-fold increase in iodothyronine uptake, much greater than that induced by any other transporter, including rat NTCP, rat OATP1A1 and human LAT1 (8). Although rat MCT8 does not discriminate between T4, T3, rT3 and 3,3’-T2, it does not transport iodothyronine sulfates, the amino acids Phe, Tyr, Trp and Leu, or the monocarboxylates lactate and pyruvate. Apparent Km values amount to 2-5 µM for the different iodothyronines in the absence of protein in the medium. T4 and T3 transport are largely Na + independent (8). Subsequent studies in mammalian cells transfected with human MCT8 or MCT10 cDNA have demonstrated that both transporters effectively facilitate transmembrane TH transport (7,9). Co-transfection of the high-affinity cytoplasmic TH-binding protein mu-crystallin (CRYM) strongly augments the cellular accumulation of iodothyronines compared with cells transfected with MCT8 or MCT10 alone. These and other findings suggest that MCT8 and MCT10 facilitate both cellular uptake and efflux of T4 and T3. MCT10 appears to transport T3 better than MCT8 whereas the
