Cellular Uptake of Thyroid Hormones
KEYWORDS: thyroid, transporter, transport, hormone, transporters, thyroid hormone, brain, human, mutations, visser, mice, uptake, amino, monocarboxylate, acid


alone. These and other findings suggest that MCT8 and MCT10 facilitate both cellular uptake and efflux of T4 and T3. MCT10 appears to transport T3 better than MCT8 whereas the opposite is true for T4. Transfection of MCT8 or MCT10 into cells that express D1, D2 or D3 results in a marked increase in the intracellular metabolism of different iodothyronine substrates (7,9). CLINICAL RELEVANCE OF MCT8 Worldwide, over 100 families have been reported where males are affected by severe psychomotor retardation associated with a particular combination of abnormal serum TH levels. A large family with this X-linked mental retardation (XLMR) syndrome was first reported in 1944 by Allan, Herndon and Dudley (62,63). Since then, this disorder is usually referred to as the Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome (AHDS). Only 60 years later it was realized that patients with AHDS also have abnormal TH levels (11,12,64). Usually, patients with AHDS are born at term following an uncomplicated pregnancy with a normal birthweight, body length and head circumference. During the first 6 months a general hypotonia is noticed. During development the truncal hypotonia remains, whereas the distal hypotonia progresses into dystonia and spasticity. The truncal hypotonia results in poor head control. Growth is relatively normal, but final body length is reduced and body weight is usually extremely low with obvious signs of muscle wasting. There is also progressive microcephaly. In the first 2 years of life, brain MRI shows clearly delayed myelination. Although myelination improves in subsequent years, it never really normalizes. This is supported by a recent study of post-mortem brains from a fetal and a 11-year old AHDS patient (65). Based on observations of delayed myelination, AHDS has also been referred to as a Pelizaeus-Merzbacher-like disorder (PMLD) (66). Although in some families the clinical phenotype is somewhat milder, AHDS patients are usually incapable of sitting, standing or walking independently, and do not develop any speech. They are severly mentally retarded with IQ values <40. Feeding is a problem in AHDS patients as they have difficulties swallowing; aspiration is a frequent cause of pneumonia. For a detailed description of the clinical features of patients with AHDS, the reader is referred to recent literature (66-69). AHDS patients have a characteristic combination of abnormal serum TH levels (68). Both T4 and FT4 levels are low-normal to clearly reduced, whereas serum T3 and FT3 are markedly elevated. Serum rT3 is always low. Consequently, the serum T3/T4 and
