Cellular Uptake of Thyroid Hormones
KEYWORDS: thyroid, transporter, transport, hormone, transporters, thyroid hormone, brain, human, mutations, visser, mice, uptake, amino, monocarboxylate, acid


mutations were found to result in an amost complete loss of TH transport by MCT8. However, the extent to which these mutations affect MCT8 function depends on the type of cell used for transfection for reasons which need to be fully explored (72-75). Studies of the localization of wild-type and mutant MCT8 protein have indicated two distinct pathogenic mechanisms, in that certain mutations interfere with the trafficking of the transporter to the plasma membrane, while other mutations allow proper routing of MCT8 but interfere with the substrate translocation process (73,76,77). The functional consequences of MCT8 mutations have also been demonstrated using fibroblasts cultured from skin biopsies, showing that T4 and T3 uptake by cells from AHDS patients is markedly reduced compared with cells cultured from healthy controls (75,78-82). ANIMAL STUDIES Studies in humans and animals have indicated that MCT8 is expressed in a variety of tissues, including brain. The distribution of MCT8 expression in mouse brain has been studied in detail by Heuer et al (83). These studies have demonstrated that MCT8 is predominantly expressed in neurons in different brain areas, including hippocampus, cerebral cortex, striatum, hypothalamus and cerebellum. In addition, MCT8 is importantly expressed in capillary endothelial cells, the choroid plexus, and tanycytes which line the third ventricle (83,84). MCT8 expression in neurons coincides with expression of D3. D2 is largely expressed in adjacent astrocytes. In mouse brain, the T4 transporter OATP1C1 is expressed in capillaries, in the choroid plexus and in astrocytes (83-86). However, in primate brain localization of OATP1C1 in capillaries appears to be negligible (22,87). MCT8 (KO) mice have been studied in the laboratories of Heuer (88-90), Refetoff (91-94), Bernal (95-97) and Schweizer (98-100). In contrast to the severe neurological phenotype in male patients with MCT8 mutations, neither hemizygous MCT8 KO male mice nor homozygous MCT8 KO female mice show an obvious phenotype. However, they show the same abnormal serum thyroid parameters as patients with MCT8 mutations, i.e. a large decrease in T4, a large increase in serum T3, and slightly elevated TSH levels. In addition, MCT8 KO mice show the following features: 1) normal brain T4 uptake but impaired brain T3 uptake, 2) decreased brain T4 and T3 contents, 3) increased D2 and decreased D3 activities in brain, 4) normal liver T4 and T3 uptake, 5) increased kidney T4 and T3 uptake, 6) increased kidney T4 and T3 contents, and 7) increased D1 activity in
