Cellular Uptake of Thyroid Hormones
KEYWORDS: thyroid, transporter, transport, hormone, transporters, thyroid hormone, brain, human, mutations, visser, mice, uptake, amino, monocarboxylate, acid


lack of an obvious phenotype in mice deficient in MCT8 alone or OATP1C1 alone (108), MCT8/OATP1C1 DKO mice show a dramatic decrease in brain T3 content associated with a markedly impaired neurodevelopment (21). These findings suggest overlapping activities of MCT8 and OATP1C1 in TH transport in the brain, as they are both capable of transporting T4 across the BBB. Apparently, development of the human brain is more vulnerable to mutations in MCT8, since OATP1C1 is not significantly expressed in the human BBB and thus cannot compensate for the loss of MCT8. Figure 3 shows a schematic of the regulation of T3 supply to neuronal target cells, based largely on studies by Heuer et al (21) and Bernal et al (109). The steps involved in this process include 1) TH transport across the BBB by both OATP1C1 and MCT8 in mice and by MCT8 alone in humans, 2) uptake of T4 in astrocytes by OATP1C1, 3) conversion of T4 to T3 by D2 in astrocytes, 4) release of T3 from the astrocytes by an unidentified transporter, 5) uptake of T3 in neurons by MCT8. These neurons may also express D3 for termination of T3 activity. MCT8 may also be involved in T3 uptake by oligodendrocytes, but this remains to be established. This schema is an oversimplification as, for instance, it ignores the importance of TH transport across the blood-CSF barrier by MCT8 and OATP1C1. Fig. 3 Schematic of steps involved in the supply of bioactive T3 to target cells in the brain. In contrast to the mouse brain, OATP1C1 does not seem to play an important role in T4 transport across the blood-brain barrier. (Courtesy of Drs. Steffen Mayerl and Heike Heuer). PATHOGENESIS OF AHDS BY MCT8 MUTATIONS TH plays an essential role in brain development. This requires optimal spatio-temporal regulation of T3 supply to brain target cells, in particular neurons. MCT8 is supposed to be crucial for T4 and T3 transport across the BBB and may also play an important role in T3 uptake by neurons. Inactivation of MCT8 results in an impaired development of the central nervous system and thus in severe psychomotor retardation. It is also possibe that MCT8 is more important for T3 uptake in certain subsets of neurons than for others. This may result in a dysbalance of T3 supply to different neuronal populations and thus in a defect in the coordinated development of neuronal networks
