Cellular Uptake of Thyroid Hormones
KEYWORDS: thyroid, transporter, transport, hormone, transporters, thyroid hormone, brain, human, mutations, visser, mice, uptake, amino, monocarboxylate, acid


of neurons than for others. This may result in a dysbalance of T3 supply to different neuronal populations and thus in a defect in the coordinated development of neuronal networks in the brain. In addition to the TH dysregulation in the brain, the effects of MCT8 mutations on the thyroid state of peripheral tissues should also be considered. Usually, the heart appears to function normally in MCT8 patients despite exposure to highly elevated serum T3 levels. This suggest a partially impaired cardiac T3 upake in case of a MCT8 mutation, implying the involvement of additional TH transporters in the heart. MCT8 patients show extensive muscle wasting and increased serum SHBG levels, which likely reflect a hyperthyroid state of the skeletal muscles and liver, respectively (hepatic SHBG production is increased by TH). This would indicate that MCT8 inactivation does not impair muscle and liver T3 uptake, suggesting a more important role of other transporters. Finally, findings in MCT8 KO mice suggest that the kidneys are also in a hyperthyroid state in MCT8 patients, but there is no direct evidence for this assumption. CONCLUSIONS AND PERSPECTIVES Much progress has been made in recent years with the identification of TH transporters and their role in the tissue-specific regulation of TH bioactivity in health and disease. However, it is likely that important TH transporters still remain to be discovered. For instance, none of the TH transporters characterized recently at the molecular level have the properties of transporters involved in TH uptake in liver cells, such as nanomolar affinities, ATP and Na + dependence, as determined in previous studies (1). Further, the physiological relevance of OATP1C1 and MCT10 need to be demonstrated. Although it has been demonstrated that mutations in MCT8 cause severe psychomotor retardation, the pathogenic mechanism has not been established. For this it is essential to know exactly where MCT8 is expressed in the human brain and other tissues. A beginning has been made with the treatment of AHDS patients with T3 analogues which do not require MCT8 for cellular uptake, such as DITPA (110) and Triac ( https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02060474 ), but further work is needed to develop an optimal therapy for these patients. REFERENCES Hennemann G, Docter R, Friesema EC, de Jong M, Krenning EP, Visser TJ. Plasma membrane transport of thyroid hormones and its role in thyroid hormone metabolism and bioavailability. Endocr Rev 2001; 22:451-476 Gereben B, Zavacki AM, Ribich S, Kim
