Chapter 29: Cancer and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: cancer, diabetes, risk, studies, women, men, study, patients, insulin, increased, associated, mortality, incidence, breast, men women


well-established, and common. Non-Modifiable Risk Factors Non-modifiable risk factors common to both cancer and diabetes include age, sex, and race/ethnicity. Similar to diabetes, cancer incidence and mortality increase with age (Table 29.2). While certain cancers are sex-specific, cancer occurs more frequently in men than in women overall. Blacks, particularly black men, are more likely to develop and die from cancer than other race/sex groups (Appendix 29.1), while cancer rates are lower in Asian Americans, Hispanics, and Native Americans (16). Similarly, in the United States, type 2 diabetes and its complications disproportionately affect African Americans. However, other minority populations, including Native Americans, Hispanics, and Asian Americans/Pacific Islanders, also have higher incidence of diabetes than non-Hispanic whites (17,18). 29–6 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition Modifiable Risk Factors Modifiable risk factors common to both cancer and diabetes include obesity, smoking, diet, physical activity, and alcohol consumption (19). Obesity. A study by the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) showed that nearly one-half million new cancer cases per year could be attributed to high BMI; overweight and obesity were responsible for an estimated 3.6% of all new cancer cases in 2012 (20). Overweight or obese individuals had a higher risk for many types of cancer compared with individuals with normal BMI (21,22). The cancers most consistently associated with overweight and obesity include breast in postmenopausal women, colon/rectum, endometrium, pancreas, esophagus, kidney, gallbladder, and liver. However, the association between weight loss and subsequent cancer risk is unclear. In the Nurses’ Health Study, a statistically significant inverse association between adult weight loss and postmenopausal breast cancer was found when the weight loss had been maintained for 4 years (23). Generally, observational studies of weight loss and cancer risk require extremely large sample sizes with long- term follow-up on weight change; weight loss may be a sign of undiagnosed cancer. Still, randomized clinical trials to study the effect of weight loss on cancer risk would require very large sample sizes, significant amounts of weight loss, and weight loss maintenance over time. Hence, data from bariatric surgery may be a more feasible resource regarding evidence on weight loss and cancer risk. The Swedish Obese Subjects (SOS) study involved 2,010 obese patients (BMI ≥34 kg/m2 in men and ≥38 kg/m2 in women) who underwent bariatric surgery and 2,037 well-matched obese controls (24). Over 10 years, bariatric surgery resulted in a sustained mean weight reduction of 19.9 kg (standard
