Chapter 29: Cancer and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: cancer, diabetes, risk, studies, women, men, study, patients, insulin, increased, associated, mortality, incidence, breast, men women


0.12–0.66) in an adjusted model (45). Hyperglycemia Chronic hyperglycemia is one potential mediator of the association between diabetes and cancer. Hyperglycemia may have an independent influence on cancer risk, or it may be a surrogate for obesity and/or the metabolic perturbations asso­ ciated with obesity and diabetes, such as hyperinsulinemia (46). Observational studies have found increased fasting blood glucose, independent of adiposity, is associated with an increased risk of cancer incidence and cancer mortality (2,47,48). However, large randomized controlled trials of intensified glycemic control did not find that cancer risk was reduced by improving glycemic control in type 2 diabetes (49). Nonetheless, the duration of clinical trials could be too short for cancer outcomes. DIABETES AND SELECTED CANCERS The following sections describe the epide­ miology of selected cancers and their associations with diabetes in white and black men and women. The age-adjusted cancer incidence and mortality in the United States based on data from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Program (SEER) 2007–2011 are shown in Appendix 29.1 (16). The SEER Program of the National Cancer Institute is an authoritative source of information on cancer incidence and survival in the United States. SEER collects and publishes cancer incidence and survival data from population-based cancer regis­ tries covering approximately 30% of the U.S. population (16). Colon and Rectum Colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer in the United States among both men and women. Based on data from the SEER 2007–2011, the age-adjusted incidence rate and mortality rate of colorectal cancer are higher in men than in women and higher in blacks than in whites (Appendix 29.1) (16). The established risk factors for colorectal cancer include colorectal polyps, family history of colorectal cancer, genetic factors, obesity, personal history of cancer, ulcerative colitis or Crohn’s disease, high fat diet, and smoking (50). Increasing evidence suggests that diabetes is associated with an elevated risk of colorectal cancer. A meta-analysis of 14 studies (six case-control and eight cohort) estimated that the risk of colon cancer among adults with diabetes was 38% higher than those without diabetes (RR 1.38, 95% CI 1.26–1.51); for rectal cancer, the risk was 20% higher (RR 1.20, 95% CI 1.09–1.31) (Table 29.3) (4). The associations remained when the analysis was limited to studies that controlled for smoking, obesity, and physical activity. Some literature has suggested that obesity may be associated with lower rates of colon cancer screening. In a
