Chapter 29: Cancer and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: cancer, diabetes, risk, studies, women, men, study, patients, insulin, increased, associated, mortality, incidence, breast, men women


Based on current evidence, continuous monitoring of the cancer issues related to incretin- based therapies is required. METHODOLOGIC CONSIDERATIONS In general, data from randomized clin­ ical trials on diabetes medication and cancer outcomes are very scant due to relatively short follow-up times in trial settings. Several methodologic issues must be considered when evaluating the pharmacoepidemiology of diabetes medi­ cations on cancer risks. (1) Studies have often had limited power to detect modest associations, particularly for site-specific cancers. Several studies have pulled data from multiple cancer sites to increase the sample size. This practice might conceal the true effect of medication on a specific cancer site (119). (2) Most diabetic patients were treated with one or more medications, making it difficult to assess independent associations of individual medications. (3) In the majority of the studies of diabetes medication and cancer, the definition of medication exposure is based on a simple binary categorization of ever and never users. This method of exposure defini­ tion, although simple to quantify, cannot provide an in-depth measure of exposure to medications over time. Incorporating information on duration, cumulative dose, and continuity of drug use where available could give a more in-depth understanding of the true nature of the medication effect. (4) Observational studies of diabetes medi­ cation on cancer outcomes are subject to several methodologic flaws in their design and analysis, which affect the validity of the findings. The most common method­ ologic flaws include time-related biases (immortal-time bias, time-window bias), confounding by indication, and prevalent user bias. More details on these biases are discussed later in this section. (5) Cohort studies using pharmacy or administra­ tive databases are often confounded by unmeasured or incompletely measured risk factors, such as A1c and obesity. Unmeasured confounding may be less of an issue with an active comparison group that is a clinical alternative for the drug of interest at a similar stage of disease progression. (6) Studies of new agents, such as insulin analogs and incretins, assessed only risks associated with short- term use. Future studies should minimize the potential for these biases and examine drug interactions and competing risks from other causes. Immortal Time Bias Immortal time bias is a special case of exposure misclassification. It refers to an initial follow-up time during which the outcome could have not occurred due to the definition of the exposure. The expo­ sure definition and time of study initiation are
