Chapter 29: Cancer and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: cancer, diabetes, risk, studies, women, men, study, patients, insulin, increased, associated, mortality, incidence, breast, men women


to an initial follow-up time during which the outcome could have not occurred due to the definition of the exposure. The expo­ sure definition and time of study initiation are key in determining immortal time bias. For example, consider a cohort of diabetes patients followed since they were diagnosed. In this case, the time between cohort entry and the first prescription is considered immortal time, since by the virtue of the study design, drug users could not have had cancer during that period. By misallocating unexposed time as exposed, the event-free person-time will be overestimated among drug users, and the incidence rate of the event will be consequently diluted. The “immortal time biases” are known to exaggerate downward the effect of a drug, thus making a drug seem to be protective, when in fact it may have no effect (120). Methods to overcome immortal time bias include new user design (121), discrete time survival model, and including terms for time-dependent ever exposure and time-dependent cumulative exposure in the analyses of evaluating diabetes medication and cancer risks (104). It is important to note that using time-de­ pendent exposure in the analysis without appropriate adjustment for confounders (i.e., time-dependent covariate adjust­ ment) leads to biased results (122,123). Confounding by Indication The choice of medication is determined by patient-specific factors, including complications, disease stage, and comorbid conditions. These factors are also associated with outcomes whose risk is increased among patients with diabetes, such as cardiovascular disease and cancer. The unbalanced distribution of risk factors between users of different diabetes medications leads to a biased association between drugs and outcomes (e.g., cancer), namely, confounding by indication. Thus, when comparing patients with diabetes treated with first-line agents to those treated with second- or third-line agents, the reported association gives an indication of the effect of disease durations and severity of cancer and not medication. Identifying an appropriate comparator group at the design and/or analysis stage can control confounding by indication. Some of the proposed strategies to control for confounding by indication in the analysis include propen­ sity score methodology and instrumental variable analysis (124). Cancer and Diabetes 29–13 WEIGHT GAIN, HYPERGLYCEMIA, AND DIABETES INDUCED BY CANCER TREATMENTS Certain cancer treatments may increase weight, change metabolic profiles, and potentially increase the risk of diabetes. WEIGHT GAIN AND DIABETES AFTER BREAST CANCER CHEMOTHERAPY The risk of sustained weight gain increases after treatment for breast cancer. An average
