Chapter 29: Cancer and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: cancer, diabetes, risk, studies, women, men, study, patients, insulin, increased, associated, mortality, incidence, breast, men women


profiles, and potentially increase the risk of diabetes. WEIGHT GAIN AND DIABETES AFTER BREAST CANCER CHEMOTHERAPY The risk of sustained weight gain increases after treatment for breast cancer. An average weight gain of 2.5–6.2 kg occurs in 50%–80% of women receiving adjuvant chemotherapy (125). Data from the Women’s Healthy Eating and Living (WHEL) Study found that only 10% of women returned to their pre-cancer weight after 6 years of follow-up; of women receiving chemo­ therapy, African American women had an increased risk of weight gain compared to Caucasian and Asian women, but this study was limited by small numbers of African American women enrolled (~4% of the cohort) (126). Weight gain can increase the risk of developing diabetes. A Canadian study reported a modest increase in the incidence of diabetes among postmeno­ pausal breast cancer survivors. The study showed, in most women, the risk began to increase 2 years after cancer diagnosis, but the highest risk was in the first 2 years in those who received adjuvant therapy (127). Another study in the same popu­ lation reported that current tamoxifen therapy was associated with an increased incidence of diabetes in older breast cancer survivors compared to those who had no tamoxifen therapy (adjusted OR 1.24, 95% CI 1.08–1.42) (128). ANDROGEN DEPRIVATION THERAPY-INDUCED INSULIN RESISTANCE AND DIABETES Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) for treatment of prostate cancer is likely to cause changes in body composition, alterations in lipid profiles, and decreased insulin sensitivity (129). Consequently, ADT may increase the risk of diabetes (130). Short-term prospective studies consis­ tently reported that ADT significantly increased insulin levels after a few months (131). Smith et al. reported that ADT significantly increased fasting plasma insulin by 26% and decreased insulin sensitivity by 13% (132). Another short- term study showed that ADT for 3 months resulted in a 63% increase in fasting insulin levels without any changes in fasting blood glucose (133). Men on long-term ADT (≥12 months) were not only insulin resistant but also had developed hyperglycemia (134). Using data from the Medicare population, Keating et al. reported in a population- based cohort of 73,196 men that gonado­ tropin-releasing hormone agonist use was associated with increased risk of incident diabetes with a hazard ratio of 1.44 (95% CI 1.34–1.55) (135). PANCREATIC RESECTIONS AND DIABETES Endocrine pancreatic insufficiency occurring after surgical resection of the pancreas may lead to development of new-onset diabetes, exacerbation of preexisting diabetes, or
