Chapter 29: Cancer and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: cancer, diabetes, risk, studies, women, men, study, patients, insulin, increased, associated, mortality, incidence, breast, men women


effect of cancer therapies, and cancer cells of patients with diabetes may be less sensitive to systemic therapy or radiotherapy (153). These adverse effects may increase the likelihood of cancer recurrence or a second cancer in diabetic patients. Clinical studies have observed patients with diabetes had increased risks of recurrence of acute lymphocytic leukemia (154), colon cancer (149), and of a second cancer after endometrial cancer (155). However, many studies did not fully consider tumor characteristics, comorbid conditions, and number of screening visits after the diagnosis of a first cancer. Furthermore, it is possible that detection bias occurred if adults with diabetes had more frequent contact with their physi­ cians and, therefore, were more likely to be detected with cancer. Future studies should try to rule out the biases asso­ ciated with access to care or treatment selection. DIABETES CARE AFTER CANCER DIAGNOSIS When cancer occurs in an adult with diabetes, it can divert attention and resources, leading to inadequate diabetes care and increased risk of diabetic compli­ cations. Based on SEER-Medicare data from the early 1990s, Earle et al. found that colorectal carcinoma survivors with and without diabetes tend to be less likely than those not having had colorectal cancer to receive necessary care across a broad range of chronic medical conditions (156). On the other hand, Keating et al. reported cancer patients with diabetes received generally similar or sometimes better quality of care relative to those without cancer among Kaiser Northern California members (157). Future studies should investigate whether the “cancer effect” on diabetes care has changed over time. DIABETIC COMPLICATIONS IN CANCER PATIENTS Diabetes is a well-established risk factor for sepsis and infection-related mortality in the general population (158). In a popu­ lation of bone marrow transplantation recipients, Derr et al. reported positive associations between pre-neutropenia glycemia and the subsequent risk of infection after transplantation (159). In patients who did not receive glucocorti­ coids during neutropenia, each 10 mg/dL (0.56 mmol/L) increase in mean pre- neutropenia glucose was associated with an odds ratio of 1.15 (95% CI 1.03–1.28) for bloodstream infections; in those who received glucocorticoids during neutro­ penia, the adjusted odds ratios associated Cancer and Diabetes 29–15 with a 10 mg/dL increase in mean glucose was 1.24 (95% CI 1.11–1.38) for blood­ stream infections. Diabetes is also a chronic risk factor for atherosclerosis in multiple vascular beds, including the coro­ nary arteries, and is a strong
