Bookshelf_NBK1206
KEYWORDS: fcmd, individuals, variant, muscular, fktn, dystrophy, muscular dystrophy, pathogenic, congenital, variants, testing, congenital muscular, severe, fukuyama, fukuyama congenital


inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. If both parents are known to be heterozygous for an FKTN pathogenic variant, each sib of an affected individual has at conception a 25% chance of being affected, a 50% chance of being an asymptomatic carrier, and a 25% chance of being unaffected and not a carrier. Once the FKTN pathogenic variants have been identified in an affected family member, carrier testing for at-risk family members and prenatal/preimplantation genetic testing are possible. Diagnosis No consensus clinical diagnostic criteria for Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy (FCMD) have been published. Suggestive Findings findings and family history. Clinical findings • Early-infantile-onset hypotonia and weakness with contractures of the hips, knees, and interphalangeal joints. Muscle weakness is typically progressive with age of onset younger than nine months. • Severe motor and speech delays and intellectual disability with relative preservation of social skills • A static course until early childhood, followed by diffuse and extensive muscle wasting (most prominent proximally) and progressive joint contractures • Myopathic facial appearance • Pseudohypertrophy of the calves and forearms in late infancy • Seizures (febrile and/or nonfebrile) • Ophthalmologic abnormalities, including visual impairment and retinal abnormalities. Retinal abnormalities, when present, are usually mild and focal. Retinal dysplasia, a pathologic diagnosis, is based on the finding of rosettes of immature photoreceptors. • Dysphagia and other swallowing issues • Respiratory issues • Cardiomyopathy Neuroimaging findings. Early brain MRI reveals several abnormalities: • Cortical malformations including, classically, cobblestone lissencephaly with an irregular or pebbled brain surface; broad gyri with a thick cortex (pachygyria) in the frontal, parietal, and temporal regions; and sometimes areas of small and irregular gyri that resemble polymicrogyria • Dilated lateral ventricles • White matter abnormalities with hyperintensity on T -weighted images and hypointensity on T - 2 1 weighted images indicative of delayed myelination rather than dysmyelination • Cerebellar polymicrogyria and cerebellar cysts • Mild brain stem hypoplasia in some individuals Additional findings include: Fukuyama Congenital Muscular Dystrophy 3 • The opercula are poorly developed, leaving an open Sylvian fissure. • The cortex is typically no more than approximately 1 cm in thickness. Laboratory findings. Elevated serum creatine kinase (CK) concentration: • Age <6 years: 10-60 times above normal • Age ≥7 years: 5-20 times above normal • Bedridden individuals: normal Histopathology. Muscle biopsy may show several abnormalities: • Findings characteristic of muscular dystrophy. Primary feature is interstitial fibrosis without muscle degeneration and
