Bookshelf_NBK1206
KEYWORDS: fcmd, individuals, variant, muscular, fktn, dystrophy, muscular dystrophy, pathogenic, congenital, variants, testing, congenital muscular, severe, fukuyama, fukuyama congenital


5-20 times above normal • Bedridden individuals: normal Histopathology. Muscle biopsy may show several abnormalities: • Findings characteristic of muscular dystrophy. Primary feature is interstitial fibrosis without muscle degeneration and regeneration, which distinguishes FCMD from Duchenne muscular dystrophy. • Immunohistochemical staining using alpha-dystroglycan antibody reveals selective deficiency of alpha- dystroglycan on the surface membrane of skeletal muscle. Note: With the advent of molecular genetic testing, a muscle biopsy is no longer necessary to establish the diagnosis of FCMD (see Establishing the Diagnosis). Electromyography (EMG) findings are characteristic of muscular dystrophy, i.e., motor unit action potential shows low amplitude, short duration, and polyphasic myogenic changes. Family history is consistent with autosomal recessive inheritance (e.g., affected sibs and/or parental consanguinity). Absence of a known family history does not preclude the diagnosis. Establishing the Diagnosis The diagnosis of FCMD is established in a proband with biallelic pathogenic (or likely pathogenic) variants in FKTN identified by molecular genetic testing (see Table 1 and Figure 1). Note: (1) Per ACMG/AMP variant interpretation guidelines, the terms "pathogenic variant" and "likely be used for clinical decision making [Richards et al 2015]. Reference to "pathogenic variants" in this GeneReview is understood to include likely pathogenic variants. (2) Identification of biallelic FKTN variants of uncertain significance (or of one known FKTN pathogenic variant and one FKTN variant of uncertain significance) does not establish or rule out the diagnosis. Molecular genetic testing approaches can include a combination of gene-targeted testing (single-gene testing, multigene panel) and comprehensive genomic testing (exome sequencing, genome sequencing) depending on the phenotype. Gene-targeted testing requires that the clinician determine which gene(s) are likely involved, whereas genomic testing does not. Because the phenotype of FCMD is broad, individuals with the distinctive findings described in Suggestive Findings are likely to be diagnosed using gene-targeted testing (see Option 1), whereas those with a phenotype indistinguishable from many other inherited disorders with muscular dystrophy are more likely to be diagnosed using genomic testing (see Option 2). Option 1 When the phenotypic and laboratory findings suggest the diagnosis of FCMD, molecular genetic testing approaches can include single-gene testing or use of a multigene panel: • Single-gene testing. In individuals who are not of Japanese, Korean, and Chinese ancestry, sequence analysis of FKTN is performed first to detect missense, nonsense, and splice site variants and small 4 GeneReviews ® Figure 1. Diagnostic algorithm for FCMD intragenic deletions/insertions. Note: Depending on the sequencing
