Bookshelf_NBK1206
KEYWORDS: fcmd, individuals, variant, muscular, fktn, dystrophy, muscular dystrophy, pathogenic, congenital, variants, testing, congenital muscular, severe, fukuyama, fukuyama congenital


FKTN is performed first to detect missense, nonsense, and splice site variants and small 4 GeneReviews ® Figure 1. Diagnostic algorithm for FCMD intragenic deletions/insertions. Note: Depending on the sequencing method used, single-exon, multiexon, or whole-gene deletions/duplications may not be detected. If only one or no variant is detected by the sequencing method used, the next step is to perform gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis to detect exon and whole-gene deletions or duplications. Note: (1) In individuals of Japanese, Korean, and/or Chinese ancestry, targeted analysis for the Japanese founder variant, a 3062-bp insertion (nt.5889) within the 3' UTR (also known as NM_001079802.1:c.*4392_4393ins3062), is recommended first. If only one or no pathogenic variant is identified, sequence analysis of the entire gene is recommended [Kobayashi et al 1998]. (2) In individuals of Korean descent, if only one or no pathogenic variant is identified, consider sequence analysis to detect the Korean founder variant c.648-1243G>T [Lim et al 2010]. In individuals of Chinese descent, c.139C>T may be a founder variant, so targeted analysis of this variant is recommended; however, the number of reported cases to date is small (2/3) [Yang et al 2015]. • A muscular dystrophy or brain malformation multigene panel that includes FKTN and other genes of interest (see Differential Diagnosis) is most likely to identify the genetic cause of the condition while limiting identification of pathogenic variants and variants of uncertain significance in genes that do not explain the underlying phenotype. Note: (1) The genes included in the panel and the diagnostic sensitivity of the testing used for each gene vary by laboratory and are likely to change over time. (2) Some multigene panels may include genes not associated with the condition discussed in this GeneReview. (3) In some laboratories, panel options may include a custom laboratory-designed panel and/or custom phenotype- focused exome analysis that includes genes specified by the clinician. (4) Methods used in a panel may include sequence analysis, deletion/duplication analysis, and/or other non-sequencing-based tests. Fukuyama Congenital Muscular Dystrophy 5 genetic tests can be found here. Option 2 When the phenotype is indistinguishable from many other inherited disorders characterized by muscular dystrophy, comprehensive genomic testing (which does not require the clinician to determine which gene[s] are likely involved) is the best option. Exome sequencing is most commonly used; genome sequencing is also possible. Note: While most reported pathogenic FKTN variants are within the coding region (e.g., missense, nonsense), several reported pathogenic
