Bookshelf_NBK1206
KEYWORDS: fcmd, individuals, variant, muscular, fktn, dystrophy, muscular dystrophy, pathogenic, congenital, variants, testing, congenital muscular, severe, fukuyama, fukuyama congenital


delays. Symmetric generalized muscle weakness and hypotonia are present. Some infants exhibit poor weight gain. 8 GeneReviews ® Predominantly proximal hypotonia manifests as hyperextensibility of the shoulders and trunk. Limitation of hip extension, hip abduction, and knee extension is also observed and increases with time. "Puffy" cheeks and pseudohypertrophy of the calves and forearms are evident in late infancy. Up to age three years, the cheeks are round, enlarged, and hard to the touch, and the skin above the cheeks appears shiny, but afterward they become atrophic. Deep tendon reflexes are diminished or absent after early infancy. Facial muscle involvement (myopathic facies) is obvious from age six to 12 months and increases with age [Osawa et al 1997]. Open mouth, prognathism, and macroglossia become more evident in childhood. Swallowing difficulties develop after age six years. The disease course may be static until early childhood, followed by diffuse and extensive muscle wasting (most prominent proximally) and later progressive joint contractures. Developmental and speech delays occur in all individuals. IQ range is usually 30 to 60. In individuals with mild FCMD, the IQ is greater than 35; in individuals with severe FCMD, the IQ is typically lower than 30. Th e maximum development in an individual with typical FCMD often consists of dozens of spoken words, sitting without help, and sliding along the floor on the buttocks. Individuals with mild FCMD may achieve independent walking or standing. Individuals with severe FCMD may lack head control or the ability to sit independently. Social development of individuals with FCMD is not as severely affected as physical and mental abilities [Saito & Kobayashi 2001]. Children with FCMD tend to be the favorites in their nursery, kindergarten, or primary school. Even severely affected individuals with FCMD show eye contact, recognize family members, and make demands through vocalizations. Autistic features are rarely observed. Seizures occur in more than 60% of affected individuals [Yoshioka et al 2008]. Average ages of onset of febrile and nonfebrile seizures were 5.4 and 4.6 years, respectively, in individuals homozygous for the Japanese founder variant (the 3062-bp insertion [nt.5889] within the 3' UTR). The average ages of onset of febrile and nonfebrile seizures were 3.6 and 3.7 years, respectively, in individuals who were compound heterozygous for the Japanese founder variant and an additional pathogenic FKTN variant [Yoshioka et al 2008]. In addition, seizures may develop after childhood in advanced stages of FCMD [Kuwayama
