Bookshelf_NBK1206
KEYWORDS: fcmd, individuals, variant, muscular, fktn, dystrophy, muscular dystrophy, pathogenic, congenital, variants, testing, congenital muscular, severe, fukuyama, fukuyama congenital


compound heterozygous for the Japanese founder variant and an additional pathogenic FKTN variant [Yoshioka et al 2008]. In addition, seizures may develop after childhood in advanced stages of FCMD [Kuwayama et al 2021]. Ocular abnormalities including refractive error (myopia and hypermetropia) are seen in 40%-53% of individuals. Abnormalities of the retina are seen in 32% of those with more severe FCMD [Chijiiwa et al 1983, Tsutsumi et al 1989, Osawa et al 1997, Saito & Kobayashi 2001]; however, retinal dysplasia is mild and focal. Pathologic findings in individuals with FCMD, including fetuses, have been demonstrated even in the absence of ophthalmologic findings; retinal dysplasia may occur during the fetal period [Hino et al 2001]. In a few individuals with severe FCMD confirmed with molecular genetic testing, severe ocular anomalies include microphthalmia, retinal detachment, retinal hypoplasia, cataracts, and glaucoma [Mishima et al 1985, Hino et al 2001, Saito & Kobayashi 2001, Manzini et al 2008, Chang et al 2009, Ishigaki et al 2018]. Note: Th e characteristic ocular findings of muscle-eye-brain disease (MEBD) or Walker-Warburg syndrome (WWS) (e.g., anterior chamber abnormalities, glaucoma) are not present in FCMD (see Differential Diagnosis). Slowly progressive cardiac involvement is characteristic of FCMD. The clinical progression of cardiac dysfunction is significantly milder than Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) [Yamamoto et al 2017]. Individuals who live more than ten years tend to develop fibrosis of the myocardium, as evidenced by postmortem findings [Finsterer et al 2010]. In an evaluation of left ventricular (LV) function using M-mode and Doppler echocardiography in 34 individuals with FCMD, eight of 11 individuals older than age 15 years showed decreased LV systolic function [Nakanishi et al 2006]. The brain natriuretic peptide concentration showed no correlation with age or LV ejection fraction [Yamamoto et al 2017]. Swallowing dysfunction is observed in individuals with infantile FCMD (especially in those with severe FCMD) [Ishigaki et al 2018] and in individuals older than age ten years with advanced disease. Inability to swallow leads to recurrent aspiration pneumonia and death [Hill et al 2004]. Fukuyama Congenital Muscular Dystrophy 9 Murakami et al reported sudden exacerbation of muscle weakness with marked elevation of serum creatine kinase (CK) and urinary myoglobin levels a few days after a febrile episode of viral infection, occasionally leading to death. On the other hand, it has been reported that CK levels decrease in association with an increase in C-reactive protein (CRP) during febrile infectious
