Bookshelf_NBK1206
KEYWORDS: fcmd, individuals, variant, muscular, fktn, dystrophy, muscular dystrophy, pathogenic, congenital, variants, testing, congenital muscular, severe, fukuyama, fukuyama congenital


viral infection, occasionally leading to death. On the other hand, it has been reported that CK levels decrease in association with an increase in C-reactive protein (CRP) during febrile infectious episodes, and this may be related to an increase in endogenous cortisol secretion [Takeshita et al 2021]. Neuropathologic findings. Examination of the brain in FCMD shows changes consistent with cobblestone lissencephaly with cerebral and cerebellar cortical dysplasia caused by a defect in neuronal migration [Saito et al 2000b]. These changes are similar to but typically less severe than the abnormalities described in MEBD and WWS (see Differential Diagnosis). Infants can have extensive areas of pachygyria involving both cerebral hemispheres, a feature that is more prominent over the frontal and temporal lobes than the parietal and occipital lobes. Cerebellar cysts, lined with the molecular layer and containing leptomeningeal tissue, were observed beneath the malformed cerebellar cortex or areas of polymicrogyria [Aida 1998]. Although distinctive enough to be In juvenile and adult cases, agyric areas are more focal and restricted to the occipital lobes. Lissencephalic or agyric areas of malformed cortex may alternate with regions of polymicrogyria, based on fusion of gyri and excessive migration of glio-mesenchymal tissue extending into the subarachnoid space. A malformed or flat ventral surface of the medulla caused by secondary hypoplasia associated with a small basis pontis and grooves in the spinal cord has been observed [Saito & Kobayashi 2001]. In fetal cases, neurons and glia migrate through focal defects in the glia limitans, forming verrucous nodules, the initial manifestation of cortical dysplasia. Thus, the overmigration of central nervous system parenchyma into subarachnoid spaces is a pathologic process that is considered essential to the development of cortical dysplasia [Nakano et al 1996, Yamamoto et al 1997, Saito et al 1998]. Muscle biopsy findings. On muscle biopsy, muscle pathology shows circular, small-diameter fibers and connective tissue proliferation in addition to muscular dystrophy findings. Immunohistochemical staining shows reduced staining with antibodies against the glycan of alpha-dystroglycan. Genotype-Phenotype Correlations FCMD is classified into three clinical types based on the individual's maximum motor abilities. (1) The typical type is assigned to individuals who are able to sit unassisted or slide on the buttocks (never stand independently); (2) the mild type is assigned to individuals who can stand or walk with or without support; and (3) the severe type is defined as individuals who can sit only with support or with no
