Bookshelf_NBK1206
KEYWORDS: fcmd, individuals, variant, muscular, fktn, dystrophy, muscular dystrophy, pathogenic, congenital, variants, testing, congenital muscular, severe, fukuyama, fukuyama congenital


[Watanabe et al 2005]. Genetically Related (Allelic) Disorders Other phenotypes associated with germline pathogenic variants in FKTN are summarized in Table 3. Table 3. FKTN Allelic Disorders Disorder Comment / Reference WWS is one of the three major phenotypes of the alpha- Walker-Warburg syndrome (WWS) dystroglycanopathies (see Differential Diagnosis). 1 Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy-dystroglycanopathy, type C4 OMIM 611588 (also referred to as LGMDR13 or LGMD2M) Dilated cardiomyopathy with mild or no proximal muscle OMIM 611615 & Villarreal-Molina et al weakness 1. Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy, WWS, & muscle-eye-brain disease have been consolidated under the single designation "congenital muscular dystrophy-dystroglycanopathy with brain and eye anomalies (MDDGA)" in OMIM, given the phenotypic and molecular overlap between these entities (see Differential Diagnosis). Differential Diagnosis Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy (FCMD) is one of the congenital muscular dystrophies, a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of inherited muscle disorders characterized by muscle weakness evident at birth or in early infancy. The main congenital muscular dystrophy (CMD) subtypes are: • Alpha-dystroglycanopathies (see Tables 4a and 4b); • CMD type 1A (see LAMA2 Muscular Dystrophy); • Congenital myopathy 3 with rigid spine (associated with pathogenic variants in SELENON; OMIM 602771); • LMNA-related CMD (OMIM 613205); • Ullrich CMD (see Collagen VI-Related Dystrophies). Fukuyama Congenital Muscular Dystrophy 11 The three major phenotypes of the alpha-dystroglycanopathies are [Taniguchi et al 2003, Voglmeir et al 2011, Carss et al 2013]: • FCMD; • Walker-Warburg syndrome (WWS); • Muscle-eye-brain disease (MEBD). The alpha-dystroglycanopathies are characterized by CMD associated with characteristic brain malformations (cobblestone lissencephaly and cerebellar malformations), eye malformations (typically involving the retina), profound intellectual disability, and early death. These entities have been consolidated under the single designation "congenital muscular dystrophy-dystroglycanopathy with brain and eye anomalies (MDDGA)" in OMIM. FCMD is milder than WWS and MEBD, particularly with respect to brain and ophthalmologic involvement [Bouchet-Séraphin et al 2016, Taniguchi-Ikeda et al 2016]. The alpha-dystroglycanopathies are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Table 4a. Distinguishing Features Between the Major Phenotypes of the Alpha-Dystroglycanopathies: FCMD, MEBD, and WWS Severity of Findings Brain MRI Phenotype MD Eye ID Brain stem Cerebellum Cerebellar cysts Hydrocephalus Usually normal; in Moderate to Usually normal; FCMD Mild Moderate rare cases, Observed Rare severe occasionally small hypoplastic MEBD Mild Severe 1 Severe Almost always small Always small Observed Common Very small & kinked WWS Mild Severe 2 Severe at junction of Very small Observed Almost universal midbrain & pons FCMD =
