Bookshelf_NBK1206
KEYWORDS: fcmd, individuals, variant, muscular, fktn, dystrophy, muscular dystrophy, pathogenic, congenital, variants, testing, congenital muscular, severe, fukuyama, fukuyama congenital


modulation therapy as a precision therapy for FCMD. Enkhjargal et al reported that an antisense oligonucleotide targeting the exonic splice enhancer region significantly induced pseudoexon skipping and restored normal FKTN production and functional O-mannosyl glycosylation 18 GeneReviews ® of alpha-dystroglycan in FCMD patient-derived cells carrying compound heterozygous pathogenic variants (the deep intronic variant c.648-1243G>T and the 3062-bp insertion founder variant). This study demonstrates the feasibility of treating FCMD caused by compound heterozygous pathogenic variants. Supplementation therapy. Kanagawa et al reported that ribitol-5-phosphate is a functional glycan unit in mammals and that defects in its post-translational modification pathway are a cause of ISPD-, FKRP-, and FKTN-related alpha-dystroglycanopathies. Since ISPD deficiency leads to a loss of or severe reduction in cellular CDP-ribitol, the supplementation of CDP-ribitol may be effective in treating FCMD. Gerin et al showed that ribitol supplementation to fibroblasts from individuals with ISPD pathogenic variants leads to a partial rescue of alpha-dystroglycan glycosylation. Gene therapy. The effectiveness of recombinant adeno-associated virus serotype 9-mediated FKTN and FKRP gene delivery has been demonstrated using FCMD and limb-girdle muscular dystrophy (LGMD) model mice, respectively [Kanagawa et al 2013, Xu et al 2013]. Earlier intervention would be highly preferred [Vannoy et al 2017]. Search ClinicalTrials.gov in the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for information on clinical studies for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Genetic Counseling Genetic counseling is the process of providing individuals and families with information on the nature, mode(s) of inheritance, and implications of genetic disorders to help them make informed medical and personal decisions. Th e following section deals with genetic risk assessment and the use of family history and genetic testing to clarify genetic status for family members; it is not meant to address all personal, cultural, or ethical issues that may arise or to substitute for consultation with a genetics professional. —ED. Mode of Inheritance Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy (FCMD) is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Risk to Family Members Parents of a proband • The parents of an affected child are presumed to be heterozygous for an FKTN pathogenic variant. • Molecular genetic testing is recommended for the parents of a proband to confirm that both parents are heterozygous for an FKTN pathogenic variant and to allow reliable recurrence risk assessment. • If a pathogenic variant is detected in only one parent and parental identity testing has confirmed biological maternity and paternity,
