Bookshelf_NBK1206
KEYWORDS: fcmd, individuals, variant, muscular, fktn, dystrophy, muscular dystrophy, pathogenic, congenital, variants, testing, congenital muscular, severe, fukuyama, fukuyama congenital


pathogenic variant and to allow reliable recurrence risk assessment. • If a pathogenic variant is detected in only one parent and parental identity testing has confirmed biological maternity and paternity, it is possible that one of the pathogenic variants identified in the proband occurred as a de novo event in the proband or as a postzygotic de novo event in a mosaic parent [Jónsson et al 2017]. If the proband appears to have homozygous pathogenic variants (i.e., the same two pathogenic variants), additional possibilities to consider include: ⚬ A single- or multiexon deletion in the proband that was not detected by sequence analysis and that resulted in the artifactual appearance of homozygosity; ⚬ Uniparental isodisomy for the parental chromosome with the pathogenic variant that resulted in homozygosity for the pathogenic variant in the proband. • Heterozygotes (carriers) are asymptomatic and are not at risk of developing the disorder. Sibs of a proband Fukuyama Congenital Muscular Dystrophy 19 • If both parents are known to be heterozygous for an FKTN pathogenic variant, each sib of an affected individual has at conception a 25% chance of being affected, a 50% chance of being an asymptomatic carrier, and a 25% chance of being unaffected and not a carrier. • Heterozygotes (carriers) are asymptomatic and are not at risk of developing the disorder. Offspring of a proband. Individuals with FCMD are not known to reproduce. Other family members. Each sib of the proband's parents is at a 50% risk of being a carrier of an FKTN pathogenic variant. Carrier Detection Carrier testing for at-risk relatives requires prior identification of the FKTN pathogenic variants in the family. Related Genetic Counseling Issues Family planning • The optimal time for determination of genetic risk and discussion of the availability of prenatal testing is before pregnancy. • It is appropriate to offer genetic counseling (including discussion of potential risks to offspring and reproductive options) to young adults who are carriers or are at risk of being carriers. • Carrier testing should be considered for the reproductive partners of known carriers, particularly if both partners are of the same ancestral background. Founder variants have been identified in Japanese, Korean, and Chinese populations (see Table 8). Prenatal Testing and Preimplantation Genetic Testing Once the FKTN pathogenic variants have been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. Note: In families segregating the 3062-bp insertion (nt.5889)
