Bookshelf_NBK1206
KEYWORDS: fcmd, individuals, variant, muscular, fktn, dystrophy, muscular dystrophy, pathogenic, congenital, variants, testing, congenital muscular, severe, fukuyama, fukuyama congenital


Genetic Testing Once the FKTN pathogenic variants have been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. Note: In families segregating the 3062-bp insertion (nt.5889) Japanese founder variant, prenatal testing using haplotype analysis is considered the most accurate method for prenatal testing [K Saito, personal observation]. In Japanese individuals, as detection of the ancestral haplotype facilitates the most accurate prenatal diagnosis of FCMD, prenatal diagnosis is performed by haplotype analysis by markers closest to the gene using fetal DNA from chorionic villus sampling (CVS) at 10-12 weeks' gestation [Saito et al 1998, Saito 2006]. Differences in perspective may exist among medical professionals and within families regarding the use of prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing. While most health care professionals would consider use of prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing to be a personal decision, discussion of these issues may be helpful. Resources GeneReviews staff has selected the following disease-specific and/or umbrella support organizations and/or registries for the benefit of individuals with this disorder and their families. GeneReviews is not responsible for the • Cure CMD curecmd.org • European Neuromuscular Centre (ENMC) Phone: 31 35 5480481 20 GeneReviews ® Email: enmc.org • Japan Muscular Dystrophy Association Japan Phone: 03-6907-3521 jmda.or.jp • Muscular Dystrophy Association (MDA) - USA Phone: 800-572-1717 Email: mda.org • Muscular Dystrophy UK United Kingdom musculardystrophyuk.org • Congenital Muscle Disease International Registry (CMDIR) The CMDIR is a global partnership of patient advocacy organizations, researchers, and clinicians, all working toward the same goal: to find treatments for congenital muscle disease. CMDIR/Cure CMD cmdir.org Molecular Genetics Information in the Molecular Genetics and OMIM tables may differ from that elsewhere in the GeneReview: tables may contain more recent information. —ED. Table A. Fukuyama Congenital Muscular Dystrophy: Genes and Databases Gene Chromosome Locus Protein Locus-Spec ific HGMD ClinVar Databases FKTN 9q31.2 Ribitol-5-phosphate FKTN homepage - FKTN FKTN transferase FKTN Leiden Muscular Dystrophy pages Data are compiled from the following standard references: gene from HGNC; chromosome locus from OMIM; protein from UniProt. Table B. OMIM Entries for Fukuyama Congenital Muscular Dystrophy (View All in OMIM) 253800 MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY-DYSTROGLYCANOPATHY (CONGENITAL WITH BRAIN AND EYE ANOMALIES), TYPE A, 4; MDDGA4 607440 FUKUTIN; FKTN Molecular Pathogenesis The dystroglycanopathy genes FKTN, FKRP, and ISPD encode essential enzymes for their respective functions: FKTN and FKRP transfer ribitol-phosphate onto sugar chains of alpha-dystroglycan, and ISPD synthesizes CDP-ribitol, a donor substrate for FKTN and FKRP [Kanagawa et
