Chapter
KEYWORDS: screening, costs, countries, percent, cost, cost-effectiveness, disabilities, disability, care, prenatal, birth, rehabilitation, interventions, prevalence, lmics


burden of ADHDaffectsfamilyrelationshipsandsocialcompetence, LDD is likely to vary by country.It will be influenced by withlastingconsequences.ChildrenwithADHDarealsoat overall infant mortality, postneonatal contribution to higher risk for injury, depression, and substance abuse. infant mortality, and regional difference in the distribu- Worldwide,withthegrowinguseinschoolsettingsofstim- tion ofthe infections known to be associated with neuro- ulantstocontrolthischronicdisorder,theimpactonhealth logical sequelae during different periods in the early life carecostsispotentiallyhuge.Althoughthereareapaucity cycle. A few of the most important infections that may of dataonthistopic,inonestudy,thecostof medicating result in LDD include the following: childrenforADHDwasclosetoanaverageof US$500or moreperchildperyear,andthisfigureisconsideredasub- • Congenital rubella(chapter 20).This disease is a major stantialunderestimate(Chan,Zhan,andHomer2002). global cause ofpreventable hearing impairment,blind- ness,and intellectual disability.The incidence of con- genital rubella syndrome has been variably set at 0.5 to Autism Spectrum Disorders 2.2 out ofevery 1,000 live births in LMICs during epi- All autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are characterized demics, which occur every four to seven years (Cutts by varying degrees of impairment in communication and others 1997).Though some LMICs have set elimi- skills and social interactions and in restricted, repetitive nation goals and vaccination has been noted to be cost- patterns of behavior or interests. Although only 50 per- effective,only 28 percent ofLMICs routinely vaccinate centof childrenintheUnitedStateswithASDsarediag- against rubella (Robertson and others 1997). nosedbeforesixyearsof age,thisgroupof disorderscan • HIV/AIDS infection (chapter 18). Neurological prob- reliably be diagnosed by three years of age and in some lems in HIV-infected children vary in different parts of casesbyasearlyas18months.ASDsrangefromasevere the world but may be as high as 40 to 50 percent (Bobat form called autistic disorder to a milder form known as and others 1998). The developmental trajectory of Asperger syndrome. Prevalence studies of ASDs in Asia, infected children is confounded by maternal, social, Europe, and North America estimate that 2 to 6 out of and biological risk factors during pregnancy and early every1,000childrenhaveanASD.Screeninginstruments childhood. Maternal substance and drug abuse, more using responses from children and parents are available. commoninHIV-infectedwomen,haveanindependent Evidenceindicatesthatearlyintervention(ideallyinopti- adverseeffectonbraingrowthandneurodevelopmen- maleducationalsettingsforatleasttwoyearsduringpre- tal outcome. Low birthweight and prematurity, pov- school) results in improved outcomes. Individuals with erty, protein calorie malnutrition, and micronutrient ASDsgenerallyrespondwelltohighlystructured,special- deficiencies—more frequently seen in HIV-infected ized programs. A variety of medications is used to treat children and particularly in LMICs—may similarly associateddepression,anxiety,ADHD,seizures,andother compromise early child development (Brouwers and behavioral symptoms. Adults with severe ASDs require others 1996). intensive and constant supervision. Little information is • Malaria (chapter 21).In Sub-Saharan Africa,malaria is availableregardingtheparentalandservicecostsofASDs. theleadingcauseofchildhoodmortalityandmorbidity. Ina2001studyintheUnitedKingdom,thelifetimecost Cerebral malaria is a well-known complication and Learning and Developmental Disabilities | 935 Box 49.1
