Chapter
KEYWORDS: screening, costs, countries, percent, cost, cost-effectiveness, disabilities, disability, care, prenatal, birth, rehabilitation, interventions, prevalence, lmics


constant supervision. Little information is • Malaria (chapter 21).In Sub-Saharan Africa,malaria is availableregardingtheparentalandservicecostsofASDs. theleadingcauseofchildhoodmortalityandmorbidity. Ina2001studyintheUnitedKingdom,thelifetimecost Cerebral malaria is a well-known complication and Learning and Developmental Disabilities | 935 Box 49.1 (Continued) may result in neurological sequelae in survivors,con- screeningtoolsforhigh-riskdrinkers,whoincludewomen tributing significantly to the burden ofLDD. inprisons,drugrehabilitationcenters,hospitalemergency • Bacterial meningitis (chapter 20). This disease results facilities, and sexually transmitted disease clinics (Sokol, in long-term sequelae for many children, including Delaney-Black, and Nordstrom 2003). Little is known approximately 40 percent of children who survive aboutthecostsaroundtheworld.Annualcostsforallindi- Haemophilus influenza meningitis, 50 percent who viduals with fetal alcohol syndrome in the United States survive pneumococcal meningitis, and 10 percent during 1998 was estimated at US$4 billion,with lifetime who survive meningococcal meningitis. Cost-effective care per person, for individuals requiring such care, at immunization can prevent meningitis from all these US$1.4million(Lupton,Burd,andHarwood2004). causes. Environmental Exposures Alcohol Children are more susceptible to environmental factors, Prenatal alcohol exposure resulting in fetal alcohol syn- including unsafe home environments, road traffic, and dromemaybethemostcommonsinglepreventablecause chemicals(seechapters42and43).Eveninhigh-income of MR worldwide , but substantial chal- countries in Europe, mild MR resulting from lead expo- lengesremainindiagnosingandpreventingthisdisorder sureaccountedfor4.4percentof DALYsamongchildren (see chapter 47). In addition to growth retardation and zerotofouryearsofage.Legislativeeffortsareunderway congenital heart disease, effects include ADHD, memory to eliminate lead from gasoline and other environmental deficits, and mood disorders. Adults continue to have sourcesofleadexposureinLMICs(KhanandKhan1999; attentionandsocialdifficultiesandhigherratesofalcohol, AlliancetoEndChildhoodLeadPoisoning2002).Inthe0 nicotine,anddrugdependence.Childrenexposedtoeven to 19 years age group,injuries from all causes accounted small amounts of alcohol (half a drink per day) in utero for 19 percent of DALYs. The poor and vulnerable road havepooroutcomes,suggestingthatabstinenceshouldbe users—pedestrians, cyclists, and motorcyclists—bear the recommended during conception and throughout preg- greatest burden of road injuries.Nearly 25 percent of all nancy(Sokol,Delaney-Black,andNordstrom2003). nonfatally injured victims requiring hospitalization sus- Although tools are available to help providers identify tain a traumatic brain injury as a result of motor vehicle women who consume alcohol,detection ofmaternal alco- crashes (Peden and others 2004).Although the effective- hol exposure is a challenge.The overall rate of fetal alco- nessofbicyclehelmetsforroadsafetyishigh,theirusein hol syndrome for LMICs has been placed at 1 to 4.8 out of LMICsislow(Thompson,Rivara,andThompson1999). every 1,000 population (Sampson and others 1997) and is Interventions aimed at reducing children’s exposure to higher among low socioeconomic populations and sub- environmental factors and injuries could result in sub- populations with particularly high alcohol intakes. If stantial gains. Targeted action by region, even within a individuals with the full spectrum of fetal alcohol single country,is likely to prove most productive (Valent syndrome–related effects are included,this
