Chapter
KEYWORDS: screening, costs, countries, percent, cost, cost-effectiveness, disabilities, disability, care, prenatal, birth, rehabilitation, interventions, prevalence, lmics


If stantial gains. Targeted action by region, even within a individuals with the full spectrum of fetal alcohol single country,is likely to prove most productive (Valent syndrome–related effects are included,this rate may be as and others 2004). high as 1 in every 100 births.A prevalence rate of 40.5 to Nutritional Deficiency 46.4 out ofevery 1,000 children in South Africa,the high- est rate worldwide,is attributable to particular historical Iodinedeficiencyfrominadequatequantitiesof iodinein and social conditions (May and others 2000). soil,water,andfoodaffects13percentoftheworld’spop- exposure have had limited success, and rates have not ter28).Maternaliodinedeficiencyduringpregnancymay changedoverthepastdecadeintheUnitedStates(Floyd resultinanaveragelossof15IQpointsinoffspring,mak- andSidhu2004).Thesemeasuresincludeputtingwarning ingitaleadingpreventablecauseofMR.Iodinedeficiency labels on alcoholic beverages and broadcasting public can be prevented with adequate consumption of iodized messages about alcohol dangers during pregnancy. salt, which is now consumed by about 70 percent of Improvedoutcomesmightresultfromtargetingtheuseof households worldwide. Source: 936 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Maureen S. Durkin, Helen Schneider, Vikram S. Pathania, and others prevention ofLDD.In this chapter,we estimated only costs for bydietaryrestrictionstopreventdamagetothenervoussys- the interventions for Down syndrome (DS),neural tube defects temandeffectiveemergencymedicalcareforheadinjury. (NTDs),and congenital hypothyroidism. • Tertiary prevention refers to rehabilitation and special edu- cational services to mitigate disability and improve func- tional and participatory or social outcomes once disability IMPAIRMENT, DISABILITY, AND PARTICIPATION has occurred. Quantifying the impacts ofLDD and their preventive interven- tions is complicated by the fact that these disorders can exist UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCES OF SUCCESSFUL and be measured at multiple levels, including three levels OR PARTIALLY SUCCESSFUL INTERVENTIONS distinguished by the World Health Organization (WHO) in International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Interventions to reduce mortality and morbidity may be fol- Health: lowed by increases in the prevalence ofLDD.Examples include the following: • impairment, which refers to physiological or psychological defects or abnormalities,such as failure ofthe neural tube to • Improved survival of very low birthweight infants at high close risk for LDD may cause the prevalence of disability in the • functionor disability,which refers to the ability of an indi- population to increase at the same time that it increases the vidual to perform a task,such as walking,seeing,hearing, absolute number ofsurvivors without disabilities. learning language,and reading • Rubellavaccinationprogramswithlessthanoptimalcover- • participation, which refers to the degree to which an indi- age will prevent infections in those vaccinated but leave vidual participates in school,employment,social role,and unvaccinatedgirlsatriskforacquiringrubellainfectiondur- recreational activities. ingtheirchildbearingyears(ratherthanduringchildhood, as might be expected in the absence of a vaccination pro- A given impairment may be associated with a range offunc- gram), thereby increasing the risk of
