Chapter
KEYWORDS: screening, costs, countries, percent, cost, cost-effectiveness, disabilities, disability, care, prenatal, birth, rehabilitation, interventions, prevalence, lmics


recreational activities. ingtheirchildbearingyears(ratherthanduringchildhood, as might be expected in the absence of a vaccination pro- A given impairment may be associated with a range offunc- gram), thereby increasing the risk of congenital rubella tional outcomes.Some but not all of these may be recognized infectionanddisabilityinthepopulation. as disability. Disability is context specific and may vary from • Newborn screening and treatment for phenylketonuria in culture to culture. For example, conditions such as dyslexia, infancy and childhood prevent MR, but phenylalanine attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder (ADHD),and mild dietary restriction for women with phenylketonuria during MR may be especially disabling in school but not as noticeable their childbearing years is essential to prevent prenatal neu- in nonacademic settings and environments where schooling is rological damage and MR in their offspring. optional.Environmental factors and social stigma may deter- mine the participation ofpeople with disabilities more than do the functional deficits themselves.Some interventions may be OTHER FACTORS LEADING TO INCREASES designed to enhance participation (for example,ramps,acces- INMEASURED PREVALENCE sible public toilets, inclusive education), whereas others may target impairment and disability (for example,nutritional for- Progress in the field ofLDD may result in increases in the rec- tification, surgery, rehabilitation, special education, newborn ognized prevalence of disability and in social and economic screening,and early treatment). costs,as in the following examples: • Increased availability ofservices may increase the number of THREE LEVELS OF PREVENTION children with recognized disabilities. Just as it is ethically problematic to screen for disorders for which no services Prevention of LDD involves primary, secondary, and tertiary can be offered,expansion of case finding becomes justified prevention activities: and ethically demanded as services become available,with • Primary preventionincludes efforts to control the underly- the potential result ofincreasing the measured prevalence of ing cause or condition that results in disability. Examples disability. include (a) maternal antiretroviral therapy to reduce the • As educational expectations and awareness ofLDD increase, risk ofmother-to-child transmission ofHIV and (b) fortifi- the prevalence ofrecognized disability may increase. cation of the food supply to prevent birth defects such as spina bifida and iodine deficiency disorders. In consideration of these trends and relationships between injury from progressing to long-term disability. Examples realistic to expect short-term control of disability or cost sav- includenewbornscreeningformetabolicdisordersfollowed ings following interventions that reduce mortality,even ifthose Learning and Developmental Disabilities | 937 Conception Nutritional Alcohol Nutrition supplementation Genetics Infections Treatment of infections Drugs Hypertension Prenatal screening Positron emission and obstetric care Smoking tomography
