Chapter
KEYWORDS: screening, costs, countries, percent, cost, cost-effectiveness, disabilities, disability, care, prenatal, birth, rehabilitation, interventions, prevalence, lmics


Evidence for cost-effectiveness Malaria preventionb Early detection and care Special education not available, but cost-effectiveness of neonatal jaundice Prosthetics can be estimated from existing data Management of malaria Braille Treatment for otitis media Sign language Prevention and treatment of neonatal Occupational, physical, complications through emergency and speech therapies obstetric and pediatric services Surgery Eyeglasses Residential care Hearing aids Assistive devices Detection and treatment of maternal thyroid disorders Evidence for cost-effectiveness Fetal alcoholism prevention Dehydration/diarrhea treatment Community-based not available, but potential for Trauma prevention (bicycle Postnatal combined cognitive rehabilitation benefits exists helmets, burns) stimulation and nutritional intervention Prevention of shaken baby Therapeutic stimulants for syndrome and child abuse treatment of ADHD Source: Note: Italicized text represents somewhat detailed consideration of cost-effectiveness included in this chapter. a. Covered in chapter 56, but chapter emphasis is not on implications for preventing developmental disabilities. b. Covered in detail in chapter 21. • Differences between studies exist in analytical methods Too little is known about the fourth type of intervention, used, such as the willingness to pay versus the human community-based rehabilitation, to evaluate it. There is a capitalapproachtovaluation,andincostcategories,suchas paucity of knowledge and a history of failed interventions whethertoincludeparentaltimecosts.Thoughthesediffer- for the prevention of premature birth and the disabilities ences make cross-population comparisons difficult, the associated with premature birth. overall evidence of cost-effectiveness is demonstrated by repeatedfindingsthatthebenefitsof aparticularinterven- Neural Tube Defects: Burden and Cost-Effectiveness tionoutweighthecostsinanumberofdifferentsettings. of Folic Acid Fortification Current evidence suggests that three interventions are cost NTDs,which are the most common malformation ofthe cen- saving: folic acid fortification to prevent NTDs, prenatal tral nervous system, result from failure of the neural tube to screening and selective pregnancy termination to prevent DS, close during the first month of pregnancy.Anencephaly typi- and neonatal screening and treatment for congenital hypothy- cally results in pregnancy loss, stillbirth, or neonatal death. roidism (CH). Spina bifida (open spine defect) is associated with a range of Learning and Developmental Disabilities | 939 functional deficits (requiring multiple surgical and rehabilita- • Grains from large mills are relatively cheap to fortify;more tive interventions),including paralysis ofthe lower extremities resources are required to fortify grains milled in smaller and often primary enuresis and cognitive disabilities. Large neighborhood mills. geographic variations in the prevalence of NTDs exist both • The amount offolate consumed by different populations in within and between countries.The burden ofdisease is highest the absence offortification varies. in South Asia and lowest in LMICs ofEurope
