Chapter
KEYWORDS: screening, costs, countries, percent, cost, cost-effectiveness, disabilities, disability, care, prenatal, birth, rehabilitation, interventions, prevalence, lmics


6.1 for high-level fortification. fied products to confirm FA levels.Quality assurance costs in Cost-effectiveness relative to status quo of FA fortification the United States are estimated at US$0.64 cents per ton offor- depends on several factors: tified grain in quality assurance costs. The costs of FA fortification include the cost of FA,setup, • Costs offood fortification depend on the types and quanti- and analytic testing. The analysis is done using two different ty offood that are fortified and the level offortification. cost estimates:US$0.15 and US$0.50 per ton ofgrain fortified. • The proportion of the target population reached by the The cost of FA determines the cost of premix added to the fortified food is important since,in most LMICs,many peo- flour. FA is almost never added alone; usually FA, iron, zinc, ple consume food produced on their own farms or within and niacin are added in combination.The material cost of FA their villages. alone is about US$0.10 to US$0.20 per metric ton of milled 940 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Maureen S. Durkin, Helen Schneider, Vikram S. Pathania, and others wheat.However,a more realistic cost for the premix (including common genetic cause of mental retardation. Identifying a other supplements) is about US$0.50 per metric ton ofmilled fetus with DS before birth and giving parents the option to ter- wheat. This higher estimate is conservative and does not minate the pregnancy early can help decrease the burden ofthe Either way, the per capita costs are only a few cents in each receive information about the consequences of DS,which will region. The low per capita cost in high-income countries of allow them to make an informed decision about the best care US$0.009 assumes that 80 percent ofthe cereal supply is forti- for the newborn or about termination of the pregnancy. fied.In South Asia,where NTDs have the highest burden,the Prenatal screening services provide an opportunity to pro- per capita cost is estimated at US$0.067 (Bagriansky n.d.). foundly reduce the impact of MR. The cost-effectiveness of prenatal screening for DS is based on two parameters:efficacy BenefitsofFolicAcidFortification Thecost-effectivenessofFA (by assessing the false positive rate ofscreening procedures and fortificationintermsofitscostperDALYandperdeathaverted the number of fetal losses caused by screening) and financial assumesthatthefortificationstrategywillreducetheincidence costs (costs of screening per DS pregnancy averted). On the ofNTDsby50percent.Thecostsarerelativelyhighbecauseof basis of the evidence,the best screening method is proposed, thehighcostofFA.Evenafewcentspercapitabecomesexpen- and sensitivity of the parameters of interest to the LMIC is siveifthepercapitaprevalenceofNTDisverylow. tested.No formal
