Chapter
KEYWORDS: screening, costs, countries, percent, cost, cost-effectiveness, disabilities, disability, care, prenatal, birth, rehabilitation, interventions, prevalence, lmics


DS pregnancy averted). On the ofNTDsby50percent.Thecostsarerelativelyhighbecauseof basis of the evidence,the best screening method is proposed, thehighcostofFA.Evenafewcentspercapitabecomesexpen- and sensitivity of the parameters of interest to the LMIC is siveifthepercapitaprevalenceofNTDisverylow. tested.No formal comparisons are made between the costs of screening and care for a person with DS.The purpose of this Other Costs and Benefits The benefits of FA fortification analysis is to suggest the most cost-effective way of screening outweigh the costs.The benefits estimated here are conserva- that provides families with information about the health ofthe tive for three reasons: child; it is not a cost-benefit analysis of whether a couple should terminate a pregnancy. • Strokes and coronary deaths are also prevented by FA forti- fication and occur more frequently than NTDs. Burden. DSiscausedbytrisomyofchromosome21—anextra • The percentage of NTDs that can be prevented by FA chromosome rather than the usual diploid form—and is a fortification may be greater than 50 percent,because up to major cause of severe MR (IQ less than 50 with substantial 70 percent ofNTDs can be prevented by 400 (cid:1)g ofpericon- deficits in adaptive behavior). The incidence of DS is higher ceptional FA daily. than the birth prevalence because many fetuses are sponta- care and management for complications when NTDs are In the absence of prenatal screening and intervention, most not prevented. DS conceptions (71 percent) result in spontaneous abortion; another3percentresultinstillbirth,and26percentresultinlive Interventions to Prevent Disability Caused birth with subsequent LDD (Kline, Stein, and Susser 1989). byDownSyndrome Because the incidence of DS cannot be determined without use universal or targeted screening tests to identify potential typicallymeasuredintermsofprevalenceper1,000livebirths causes or cases ofLDD,including DS. ratherthanintermsofincidence.Thus,thepopulationpreva- lence of DS varies depending on the maternal age structure Prenatal and Neonatal Screening. Prenatal screening for (steepincreaseafterage35years)aswellastheavailabilityand genetic abnormalities allows parents to determine whether to use of prenatal diagnosis followed by selective termination. continue with an affected pregnancy,whereas neonatal screen- Estimatesfrom10LMICsrangewidely,from0.1outof every ing’s fundamental purpose is to improve the infant’s prognosis 1,000livebirthsinIndonesiato4.4outofevery1,000livebirths through early diagnosis and treatment. inPakistan(InstituteofMedicine2003).Moststudies,inboth AnumberofLDDshavebeenscreenedforinhigh-income high-incomecountriesandLMICs,showDSbirthprevalence countriessincethe1960s,andresearchershaveconductedeco- in the range of 1.0 to 1.6 out of every 1,000 births.The birth nomicevaluationsofthesescreeningprograms,includingthose prevalenceofDSislikelyhigherinLMICsbecauseofahigher for Tay-Sachs disease carriers, DS (Cusick and others 2003), proportionofbirthsamongwomenoverage35(11to15per- sickle cell disease (Panepinto and others 2000), phenylke- cent)relativetothatinhigh-incomecountries(5to9percent) tonuria(Lordandothers1999),andseveralotherinbornerrors (Kline,Stein,andSusser1989)andpossiblybecauseofdifferen- ofmetabolism(Insinga,Laessig,andHoffman2002). tialaccesstoprenatalscreeningforchromosomalabnormalities. Estimates for Prenatal Screening, Diagnosis, and Selective Life Expectancy and Quality ofLife. Life expectancy for chil- Pregnancy Termination for Down Syndrome. DS is the most dren with DS is substantially lower than that of the general Learning
