Chapter
KEYWORDS: screening, costs, countries, percent, cost, cost-effectiveness, disabilities, disability, care, prenatal, birth, rehabilitation, interventions, prevalence, lmics


net benefit, the policies to be recommended for the prevalence ofDS.Ifa large percentage offamilies are opposed prevention of disability must also consider individuals’ free- to induced abortion of fetal DS, the uptake of amniocentesis dom in decision making at each step ofthe prenatal diagnosis. also will be low. Successful policies need to be based on cost-effectiveness 944 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Maureen S. Durkin, Helen Schneider, Vikram S. Pathania, and others estimates that take into account the needs,sensitivities,and val- normal brain development,and little or no thyroid hormone in ues ofindividuals and cultures (Institute ofMedicine 2003). the neonatal period results in damage to the nervous system. Various causes of anatomical maldevelopment of the thyroid gland are responsible for CH, and several genes have been Interventions to Prevent Disability Caused implicated. With biochemical newborn screening (best con- by Congenital Hypothyroidism ducted in centralized regional laboratories) using dried blood spots and diagnosis in the first few weeks of life,MR is avoid- interventions. able. Without appropriate treatment, two-thirds of patients with CH have low IQ,and 30 percent experience severe or pro- Neonatal Screening in Low- and Middle-Income Countries. found cognitive disability . Even with appro- When considering the costs and benefits associated with a CH priate treatment, some subtle intellectual impairment and screening program, one must first have an estimate of how behavior deficits may still occur—the mean IQ may be approx- prevalent CH is in the population so that the avoided costs imately 10 points lower than that of the general population associated with disability can be calculated.It is important to (Tillotson and others 1994). In the United States, infants are note that in high-income countries and in several middle- screened as newborns and again at two to six weeks of age to income countries screening is usually done for a series ofcon- detect missed cases.For optimal outcomes,lifelong treatment ditions rather than for a single disorder. This fact is likely to with thyroid hormone is required,with subsequent monitoring affect the cost. In several of these conditions, the treatment and adjustments recommended every 3 to 12 months until includes dietary modification as well as costly prepared foods growth and puberty are complete.Many females born with CH and formulas.Policies in countries where this type ofscreening are now reaching childbearing age and require increased occurs include labeling of food to alert potentially vulnerable dosages of thyroid hormone during pregnancy for optimal consumers.
