Chapter
KEYWORDS: screening, costs, countries, percent, cost, cost-effectiveness, disabilities, disability, care, prenatal, birth, rehabilitation, interventions, prevalence, lmics


where this type ofscreening are now reaching childbearing age and require increased occurs include labeling of food to alert potentially vulnerable dosages of thyroid hormone during pregnancy for optimal consumers. neuropsychological outcome in their offspring. Several studies have examined the prevalence ofCH in spe- cific populations, with substantially varying results. A review Costs of Care. Estimated lifetime costs of care for the child of 13 studies reporting findings on CH prevalence identified with CH include the following (Barden and Kessel 1984): through individual screening programs found the lowest rate to be 1 case of CH per over 6,000 screened in Thailand • Institutional care.At the time ofthe study,15 percent ofcon- (Wasant, Liammongkolkul, and Srisawat 1999). Contrasting genital hypothyroid individuals were institutionalized from this is the highest rate reported: 1 case in 1,000 screened in age 5 to 70. Pakistan (Lakhani and others 1989). Prevalence can vary not • Foster care. About 25 percent of congenital hypothyroid only from one country to the next,but also within countries, cases received foster care from age 5 to 20. depending on different analyses or subpopulations within one • Residential care. Such care was provided for 40 percent of country.These variations demonstrate the need for identifying affected cases. the appropriate population in order to conduct economic eval- • Special education expenditures. Such expenses varied with uations ofscreening interventions. the level ofMR (15 percent severe,25 percent moderate,and According to three cost-benefit analyses of CH screening 40 percent mild). (Layde, Von Allmen, and Oakley 1979; Barden and Kessel 1984),the benefits included savings from institutionalization, In 2004,estimated lifetime costs ofCH care is US$191,000, special education,medical care,lost parent and child produc- with a 6 percent discount rate. This estimate of the financial tivity,and slightly decreased life expectancy.The costs included costs ofcare for an affected person is fairly conservative;it does those of the screening program as well as the cost of treating not take into account lost productivity ofthe person with CH, detectedcases.Overall,CHscreeningprogramsaresubstantially a potential loss ofincome attributable to the time inputs ofthe cost saving,with a cost-benefit ratio as high as 1 to 8.9 in high- family members who are taking care ofthe affected person,or income countries (Dhondt and others 1991).Such savings have effects on quality oflife. not yet been evaluated in LMICs. Because the treatment is inexpensive and highly effective, it is anticipated that CH Cost-Effectiveness ofNeonatal Screening. Table 49.5presents screening would also be substantially cost saving in LMICs.
