Chapter
KEYWORDS: screening, costs, countries, percent, cost, cost-effectiveness, disabilities, disability, care, prenatal, birth, rehabilitation, interventions, prevalence, lmics


the number of people experiencing the bilitation in different settings and for a range of outcomes effects of disability is estimated to be up to 25 percent of include one for preschool children with disabilities in rural the world population. Community-based rehabilitation is Guyana.The children showed significant improvement after six designed to expand access to rehabilitation services in poor and months in the program,and noticeable improvements in the rural areas by providing training in rehabilitation techniques to attitudes ofparents and others toward children with disabilities individuals with disabilities,their family members,and others were seen (O’Toole 1988). Community-based rehabilitation in their communities.It also attempts to change negative atti- programs in the Philippines and Zimbabwe found gains in tudes toward disability and to remove barriers in the physical activities of daily living and communication as well as higher environment that prevent people with disabilities from fully rates ofstarting school and employment after six months in the participating in society. program . Similarly, people with disabilities participating in a community-based rehabilitation program in Botswana showed high levels of independence in activities of Costs. In the community-based rehabilitation model, com- daily living; 20 percent of adults were working, and most munity interventions are shifted from institutions and centers school-age children were attending class (Lundgren-Lindquist to the homes and communities ofpeople with disabilities and and Nordholm 1996). are carried out largely by family members and volunteers.By Some have questioned the efficacy of community-based using volunteer workers and the existing infrastructure in the rehabilitation and its ability to expand access for people with communities, this form of rehabilitation minimizes costs of disabilities.Manypeoplewithdisabilitiesdonotpatronizesuch delivering services and is assumed to be cost-effective relative programs,andmanywhodotryleavedissatisfied(Kassah1998). to the alternative institution-based rehabilitation (Institute After initial diagnosis, only half of the identified individuals of Medicine Committee on Nervous System Disorders in with disabilities continued (Rottier and others 1993). Developing Countries 2001; WHO Community-Based Community-based rehabilitation programs also face the diffi- Rehabilitation 1982; Lagerkvist 1992). Institutional care has cultyof workingindiversecommunitieswithuniquecultural, higher costs because it relies on paid staff,medical equipment, religious,economic,andsocialconditions,makingitdifficultfor building maintenance, and medical costs. Some advocate for a single model to meet the needs for rehabilitation services in provision of institutional,center-based,medical,and commu- developingcountries(Crishna1999). nity-based approaches in a complementary fashion. In a Zimbabwean community-based rehabilitation project two- Prevention of Premature Birth thirds of the patients were referred to hospitals or clinics (Rottier and others 1993).Annual costs for training workshops Premature birth—after 20 weeks but
