Chapter
KEYWORDS: screening, costs, countries, percent, cost, cost-effectiveness, disabilities, disability, care, prenatal, birth, rehabilitation, interventions, prevalence, lmics


least in includes basic research,epidemiology,and evaluations ofearly the short run. health services that are culturally appropriate and feasible. prevent DS are highly cost-effective under some conditions Suggested research priorities include the following: but raise ethical, social, and cultural concerns that may preclude their applicability in some LMICs.Screening is not • etiology and prevention of adverse pregnancy outcomes only expensive; it also has negative health outcomes: the associated with LDD, such as low birthweight, preterm false-positive rates and the subsequent anxiety, a risk of birth,intrauterine growth retardation,and related factors miscarriage of an unaffected pregnancy, and the resulting • community-based rehabilitation, including effectiveness, potential complications from pregnancy termination. cost-effectiveness,and social effects of different models for Another concern is that,where access to prenatal care is lim- children with LDD in LMICs screening will be small. 948 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Maureen S. Durkin, Helen Schneider, Vikram S. Pathania, and others • Neonatal screening and treatment for CH is highly cost- Barden,H.S.,and R.Kessel.1984.“The Costs and Benefits ofScreening for effective in developed countries, where it provides a low- Congenital Hypothyroidism in Wisconsin.”Social Biology 31 (3–4): 185–200. cost strategy for preventing MR.For minimal extra cost,col- Beaulieu, M. D. 1994. “Screening for Congenital Hypothyroidism.” lected blood samples from newborns can also be used to identify and prevent the disabling effects of other inborn Task Force on the Periodic Health Examination. Ottawa: Health errors of metabolism, such as phenylketonuria and maple Canada. syrup urine disease.However,when only a part ofthe new- Begum,F.,K.Buckshe,and J.N.Pande.2003.“Risk Factors Associated with Preterm Labour.”Bangladesh Medical Research Council Bulletin29 (2): born population is reached by screening,high costs will be 59–66. incurred to care for those missed by the screening,thereby Benedict,R.E.,and A.M.Farel.2003.“Identifying Children in Need of reducing the cost-benefit ratio. Ancillary and Enabling Services: A Population Approach.” Social Science and Medicine57 (11):2035–47. For another type of intervention considered, community- Bobat,R.,D.Moodley,A.Coutsoudis,H.Coovadia,and E.Gouws.1998. basedrehabilitation,costsandbenefitshavenotbeenquantified “The Early Natural History ofVertically Transmitted HIV-1 Infection in African Children from Durban,South Africa.”Annals of Tropical sufficientlytoallowevaluation.Suchrehabilitationisdesigned Paediatrics18 (3):187–96. toexpandaccesstoservicesinpoorandruralareas,tochange Brouwers,P.,C.Decarli,M.P.Heyes,H.A.Moss,P.L.Wolters,G.Tudor- negativeattitudestowarddisability,tolowerthecostsofdeliv- Williams, and others. 1996. “Neurobehavioral Manifestations of eringservices,andtoenhancetheparticipationofpersonswith Symptomatic HIV-1 Disease in Children:Can Nutritional Factors Play disabilities in society.The benefits of community-based reha- a Role?”Journal ofNutrition126 (Suppl.10):S2651–62. Children with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder: National resourcesoffamilymembers. Estimates from the Medical Expenditure Panel Survey.” Archives of Another intervention,electronic fetal monitoring in labor, Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine156 (5):504–11. has been shown to be unsuccessful in preventing childhood Crishna, B. 1999. “What Is Community-Based Rehabilitation?
