Original Article / Özgün Araştırma
KEYWORDS: respiratory, viruses, patients, virus, viral, children, infections, tract, hospitalized, rsv, respiratory viruses, multiple, findings, influenza, lower


respiratory fail- age, sex, hospitalization states and times, breast feeding, ure. Viral infections can be epidemic, pandemic, and can exposure to smoking, the presence of atopy, number of even result in death depending on the age and the im- siblings, school attendence, contact with anybody with mune status of the child (3, 4). Although the distribution upper RTIs, and influenza vaccination status. The phys- of viruses varies by season, geographic region, and age ical examination findings, laboratory tests, radiologic group, the respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), human rhi- findings, and viral PCR results were recorded from pa- novirus (HRV), parainfluenza viruses (PIV), and seasonal tient files. influenza viruses are the most common causative respi- ratory viruses around the world (3, 4). Analysis of respiratory tract virus Nasopharyngeal swab samples were obtained by in- Cell culture is the gold standard method for the detec- serting swabs into both nostrils, progressing up to the tion of viruses, but the low sensitivity, inefficacy in coin- nasopharyngeal region and rotating the swabs 360 fections, and the necessity of cold chain logistics are the degrees. The swabs were sealed in capped tubes that main handicaps. Multiplex polymerase chain reaction contained UTM™ Viral Transport medium (Copan Di- (PCR), a new molecular method, enables the determina- agnostics Inc. Italy). Nucleic acids were extracted from tion of respiratory viruses rapidly and accurately (5, 6). 200 μL of specimens using High Pure Viral Nucleic The detection of viruses is important to avoid unneces- Acid Kit (Roche, Germany) according to the manufac- sary antibiotic use, to begin antiviral treatment in time, turer’s instructions. Following nucleic acid purification, to decrease the spread of the viruses, and to shorten the cDNA synthesis was performed using a RevertAid First duration of hospitalization. The detection of respiratory Strand cDNA synthesis kit (Fermentas, Canada) accord- viruses also contributes to epidemiologic results and vac- ing to the manufacturer’s instructions. Multiplex PCR cine studies. Herein, we aimed to determine the rate and test in three tubes (A, B, and C) was performed for in- clinical features of viruses among hospitalized children vestigation of respiratory viruses. A Seeplex® RV15 ACE with lower RTIs. Detection kit was used for testing, which covers 15 of the most common respiratory viruses (influenza A and Material and Methods B viruses, parainfluenza virus 1, 2, 3 and 4, coronavirus 229E/NL63 and OC43, rhinovirus A/B/C, respiratory Study participants syncytial virus A and B, metapneumovirus, enterovirus
