Original Article / Özgün Araştırma
KEYWORDS: respiratory, viruses, patients, virus, viral, children, infections, tract, hospitalized, rsv, respiratory viruses, multiple, findings, influenza, lower


idendified, all influenza of RTIs, as Fretzayas and Moustaki suggested (12). cases were in winter. monly detected causative agents in the etiology of RTI. more common in other viruses probably PIV, because Respiratory syncytial virus is responsible for over 30 mil- stridor is a prominent finding of PIV. lion acute lower RTI episodes in children aged under 5 missions and 160 000 deaths every year (13–15). There are ported hematologic findings of respiratory viruses (27). several studies reporting the rate of RSV ranging from We observed leucopenia and lymphopenia in all in- 40.1–77% worldwide. For our country, the frequency of fluenza cases and with some other viruses. The lowest RSV in hospitalized infants is between 20–63% (16, 17). neutrophil count (100/mm3) was detected in RSV, and the lowest lymphocyte counts (100/mm3) were in influenza Human rhinovirus is also known as the most common and HPV. However, overall there was no significant sta- respiratory virus responsible for most upper RTIs, but tistical difference among the viruses in terms of hemato- HRV may also cause severe lower RTI and asthmatic ex- logic findings or biochemical results. acerbations (18, 19). Human rhinovirus can even lead to bronchiolitis, more severe than RSV as Papadopoulos et Routine chest radiography is not necessary to confirm the al. (18) reported. Human rhinovirus and RSV are also re- diagnosis of pneumonia in children; radiographic find- lated with persistant wheezing and respiratory disease, ings are poor indicators of the etiologic diagnosis. All of thus the detection of viruses is important for the diagno- our patients had chest X-rays because of hospitalization. sis and follow-up of wheezing infants. The most common radiologic findings of respiratory viruses are multifocal or diffuse areas of consolidation, Multiple viruses were the third most frequent respira- similar to the X-rays of our patients. RSV is reported to tory pathogens. Goka et al. (20) stated that the frequency cause an airway-centric pattern of disease character- of multiple viruses was between 5% and 62%. It has been ized by a combination of tree-in-bud opacities and peri- postulated that prolonged nasopharyngeal shedding and bronchiolar consolidation. Adenovirus causes multifocal asymptomatic persistence of viruses can be the reason of pneumonia characterized by combinations of consolida- rather than the actual infection. Even though some stud- tion and ground-glass opacities. In the present study, no ies suggest that identification of multiple viral agents can significant difference was found between the radiologic the
