Original Article / Özgün Araştırma
KEYWORDS: respiratory, viruses, patients, virus, viral, children, infections, tract, hospitalized, rsv, respiratory viruses, multiple, findings, influenza, lower


Even though some stud- tion and ground-glass opacities. In the present study, no ies suggest that identification of multiple viral agents can significant difference was found between the radiologic the relation between disease severity and coinfection re- ologic difference between single and multiple viruses, but kit used was able to identify only 15 respiratory tract the median age of patients was lower for multiple viruses. pathogens. Second, the number of influenza cases was Cilla et al. (23) also reported multiple viruses in younger very small. Third, we only investigated hospitalized pa- children. The younger age group tended to develop viral tients with lower RTIs, not patients who were admitted to infections more compared with adults due to immature the emergency services or outpatients’ polyclinics. Final- immune status and prolonged viral shedding period. The lly, the treatment methods of patients were not specified RSV is also detected in younger age group (1–170 months), in the study. the median age of our patients with RSV was 7.0 (range, 3.0–16.0) months, consistent with the literature. It is al- In conclusion, viruses are the main causative agents of ready known that RSV is more likely to progress into se- RTIs in children. A definite differentiation cannot be vere lower RTIs in premature infants. We also detected RSV made by the clinical and radiologic findings among the more commonly in patients with a history of prematurity. various types of viruses, though there are some differ- ences. Timely and accurate diagnosis of viruses is nec- perate climates. Most respiratory viruses are reported to high socioeconemic burden. Aygün et al. Respiratory viruses among hospitalized children Turk Pediatri Ars 2020; 55(2): 166–73 Ethics Committee Approval: Ethics commitee approval 2003; 163: 487–94. was received for this study from Cerrahpaşa Medical Fac- 4. Iwane MK, Edwards KM, Szilagyi PG, et al. Population- ulty Ethic Committee (2017, No: 367965). based surveillance for hospitalizations associated with respiratory syncytial virus, influenza virus, and parain- Informed Consent: Written informed consent was ob- fluenza viruses among young children. Pediatrics 2004; tained from the parents. 113: 1758–64. Peer-review: Externally peer-reviewed. 5. Liolios L, Jenney A, Spelman D, Kotsimbos T, Catton M, Wesselingh S. Comparison of a multiplex reverse tran- Author Contributions: Concept - D.A., H.Ç., Y.C.; Design - scription-PCR-enzyme hybridization assay with conven- D.A., H.Ç., Y.C.; Supervision - H.Ç., Y.C.; Funding - M.K., tional viral culture and immunofluorescence techniques K.M., Y.C.; Materials - D.A., F.E., D.Ş.;
