Drugs That Affect Body Weight, Body Fat Distribution, and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, gain, weight gain, patients, fat, metabolic, effects, associated, treatment, therapy, insulin, drugs, diabetes, free


ABSTRACT Weight gain or body fat redistribution are common side effects of many widely used drugs. Weight gain amounts varying between a few kg to an increase of 10% or more of initial body weight have been described. Often accompanying this weight gain are worsened health risks, including an increased incidence of the metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes, and other cardiovascular risk factors. With many drug classes, such as β-receptor antagonists, anti-psychotic drugs, corticosteroids, neurotropic drugs, and those used in the therapy of HIV, both significant weight gain and metabolic disturbances occur in susceptible patients. In this review, we provide an overview of drugs that affect body weight, fat distribution, and metabolism. Attention is given to the possible pathogenic mechanisms underlying these effects and their metabolic consequences. Potential preventive, alternative, or therapeutic measures are suggested where applicable. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG. INTRODUCTION Many widely used drugs cause weight gain that—especially in susceptible individuals—may lead to patients becoming overweight or obese. Other drugs predominately influence body fat redistribution through increases in central adiposity, including visceral fat accumulation, and/or subcutaneous fat atrophy (lipodystrophy). Accompanying these changes are increases in insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, metabolic syndrome, and risk for type 2 diabetes (T2DM), non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), cardiovascular disease, cancer, and even increased mortality. These body weight and metabolic side-effects warrant close monitoring and potentially additional therapies to minimize their health impact, thereby increasing medical costs and contributing to non-compliance, which risks worsening of the underlying condition. Weight gain is consistently associated with many older agents for the treatment of diabetes and with neuropsychotropic medications, including atypical antipsychotics, antidepressants, and antiepileptic drugs ( 1 ). For other drug classes, e.g. β-blocking agents, data are less consistent or well-studied. Glucocorticoids are associated with weight gain and lipodystrophy, as are retroviral agents used in the therapy of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Also, drugs used to manage lipid disorders, such as MTTP inhibitors and anti-sense apo-B oligonucleotides, are associated with changes in body fat distribution, especially liver lipid accumulation. Unfortunately, the mechanisms behind these effects on body weight and fat distribution are often poorly understood, which hampers identification of high-risk patients for prevention, development of lower risk-drugs, and possible treatments ( 2 ). In this chapter, drugs affecting body weight, fat distribution, and glucometabolic outcomes will be reviewed, as well as the possible mechanisms contributing to
