Drugs That Affect Body Weight, Body Fat Distribution, and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, gain, weight gain, patients, fat, metabolic, effects, associated, treatment, therapy, insulin, drugs, diabetes, free


risk-drugs, and possible treatments ( 2 ). In this chapter, drugs affecting body weight, fat distribution, and glucometabolic outcomes will be reviewed, as well as the possible mechanisms contributing to these side effects. Recent studies will be highlighted that have been undertaken to identify predictors of weight gain and metabolic complications, and where possible, options for prevention and therapy will be discussed. DRUGS ASSOCIATED WITH WEIGHT GAIN Medications for Diabetes Insulin, sulfonylurea (SU), and thiazolidinediones (TZD) are medications used in the management of diabetes that may cause substantial weight gain when compared to placebo ( 1 ). Metformin and Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors are considered to be weight neutral, whereas sodium glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors and glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptor analogues (GLP1RA) are associated with weight loss on average ( 3 ). INSULIN AND SULFONYLUREAS Insulin causes weight gain by multiple mechanisms ( 4 ). Sulfonylureas cause weight gain by increasing endogenous insulin levels. Appetite stimulation, sometimes triggered by hypoglycemia and fluctuating glycemia, is probably the most important factor in body fat increase. Defensive snacking in order to prevent hypoglycemia or compensate for it, can be observed in some patients. Poor glycemic control increases metabolic rate and consequently, improving glycemic control decreases metabolism. Improving metabolic control also reduces glycosuria and retention of otherwise lost calories. Finally, the anabolic effects of insulin can increase protein synthesis and inhibit lipolysis and proteolysis, resulting in a gain of lean body mass ( 3 , 4 ). The weight promoting properties of insulin are dose dependent and are more pronounced in injection regiments that include rapid-acting insulin compared to basal insulin only ( 5 ). The addition of metformin to insulin therapy, reduces the effects of insulin on body weight by decreasing energy intake ( 6 ). The weight gain by sulfonylurea is most pronounced in the first months of therapy and then reaches a plateau. In the UKPDS and ADOPT studies a mean weight gain of this therapeutic class is approximately 4 kg during the first year of treatment ( 7 , 8 ). THIAZOLIDINEDIONES Thiazolidinediones also cause a substantial time and dose-dependent weight gain ranging from 1.5 to 4 kg in the first year of treatment ( 1 , 9 ). The mechanisms by which TZD’s cause weight gain include fluid retention, promotion of lipid storage, and adipogenesis through activation of peroxisome proliferator-activator receptor gamma (PPARg) ( 10 , 11
