Drugs That Affect Body Weight, Body Fat Distribution, and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, gain, weight gain, patients, fat, metabolic, effects, associated, treatment, therapy, insulin, drugs, diabetes, free


). The mechanisms by which TZD’s cause weight gain include fluid retention, promotion of lipid storage, and adipogenesis through activation of peroxisome proliferator-activator receptor gamma (PPARg) ( 10 , 11 ). The fat accumulation is almost uniquely subcutaneous, with stable or even decreasing amounts of visceral fat ( 12 ). Thiazolidinediones also improve hepatic steatosis and inflammation in patients with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), although safety concerns including osteoporosis and fluid retention with pioglitazone hamper their use ( 11 , 13 ). Newer PPAR drugs for the treatment of NASH are currently being studied in phase 3 trials ( 14 ). Antihypertensive Drugs Hypertension frequently accompanies obesity and T2DM. Therefore, drugs that promote weight gain and other metabolic side effects are of obvious concern in patients with obesity and hypertension ( 15 ). BETA-BLOCKERS The propensity of β-blockers to cause weight gain has been known for years ( 16 ). Their use is associated with a mean weight gain of 1.2 kg compared to controls, although among β-blockers, variable effects on weight, ranging from no significant change to an increase of 4 kg or more after one year of treatment, have been described. Most weight gain occurs in the first few months, after which no further weight gain is apparent ( 16 ). Mechanisms whereby β-receptor antagonists are thought to affect body weight include reductions in total energy expenditure through lowering of basal metabolic rate and thermogenic response to meals, and by inhibition of lipolysis in response to adrenergic stimulation ( 17 ). In addition, β-receptor antagonists can promote fatigue and reductions in patient activity ( 18 - 20 ). Polymorphisms in human genes involved in catecholamine signal transduction affecting fat cell lipolysis might partly explain individual susceptibility to β-receptor antagonist-induced weight gain ( 21 ). β-blockers may also selectively promote the accumulation of abdominal fat, which is more sensitive to catecholamines than peripheral fat ( 22 ). This preponderance of abdominal fat accumulation may be, in part, responsible for the abnormalities related to carbohydrate and lipid metabolism associated with β-adrenergic blockade ( 23 ). Several large trials have linked β-receptor antagonists to dysglycemia and new onset diabetes, even without significant weight gain ( 24 ). In particular, non-vasodilating beta-blockers (atenolol, metoprolol and propranolol) are associated with a worsening of glycemic and lipid parameters. In contrast, vasodilating beta-blockers (nebivolol, labetolol and carvedilol) have more favorable effects on glucose and lipid profiles
