Drugs That Affect Body Weight, Body Fat Distribution, and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, gain, weight gain, patients, fat, metabolic, effects, associated, treatment, therapy, insulin, drugs, diabetes, free


metoprolol and propranolol) are associated with a worsening of glycemic and lipid parameters. In contrast, vasodilating beta-blockers (nebivolol, labetolol and carvedilol) have more favorable effects on glucose and lipid profiles ( 25 ). Nebivolol has been shown to induce lipolysis, reduce adipocyte lipid droplet size, and promote thermogenic and mitochondrial genes through a β3 adrenergic receptor affect ( 26 ). Therefore, selective agents with a vasodilating component such as nebivolol and carvedilol should be prioritized when β-blockers are needed in a population with high risk for metabolic side effects ( 15 ). CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS Calcium channel blockers are considered weight neutral and do not show adverse effects on glucose and/or lipid metabolism. However, flunarizine, a calcium channel blocker used in the prophylaxis of migraine, is associated with increased appetite and weight gain up to 4 kg. These properties have been linked to its blocking effects on both the calcium channel receptor and the dopamine receptor ( 27 , 28 ). Psychotropic Medications Obesity is two to three times more common among patients with psychiatric disorders than the general population, and individuals who are obese suffer more frequently from psychiatric illnesses than those who are normal weight. Underlying causes of this interaction between obesity and psychiatric disease likely include a clustering of adverse metabolic risk behaviors, such as unhealthy eating and insufficient physical activity, as well as substance abuse that accompany many psychiatric conditions ( 29 ). But the pathophysiological neural processes that lead to psychiatric diseases also seem to share common brain pathways with those that lead to unwanted weight gain, obesity, metabolic syndrome, and cardiovascular disease risk factors, each of which can influence the risk for the others ( 30 ). Mounting evidence points to a critical role for two major pathways: inflammatory processes including related alterations of brain functions and chronic stimulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis ( 30 , 31 ). Psychiatric disorders are often characterized by a chronic stimulation of the HPA axis and sustained cortisol elevation, which have been linked with abdominal obesity, hepatic steatosis, insulin resistance, and cardiovascular disease ( 31 ). Chronic psychosocial stress has also been linked with inflammation and metabolic alterations, including weight gain with a predominance of visceral fat accumulation and insulin resistance ( 30 ). On the other hand, increased adiposity leads to chronic low-grade activation of inflammatory processes, which have been shown to have a potent role
