Drugs That Affect Body Weight, Body Fat Distribution, and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, gain, weight gain, patients, fat, metabolic, effects, associated, treatment, therapy, insulin, drugs, diabetes, free


accumulation and insulin resistance ( 30 ). On the other hand, increased adiposity leads to chronic low-grade activation of inflammatory processes, which have been shown to have a potent role in the pathophysiological brain alterations associated with psychiatric disease ( 31 ). It is therefore possible that adiposity-driven inflammation contributes to the development of mood disorders and their growing prevalence worldwide. Medical therapies for depression, mood disorders, and other psychiatric illnesses have been associated with sometimes very large weight gain ( Table 1 ). Epidemiologic data show a positive correlation between weight gain and the time exposed to psychotropic medication or the number of different psychotropic drugs used ( 32 ). However, the variation in mean weight gain is large between the different drug classes and even within the same class. For most psychiatric treatments, no correlation is found with weight gain and original diagnosis or severity of the underlying psychiatric condition, treatment outcome, weight at the onset of the disease or treatment, age, or sex, which impedes prediction of those patients who will or will not have metabolic side effects ( 32 ). What has been consistently shown is that weight gain in the first month after the start of treatment is a strong predictor of long-term weight gain ( 33 ). Therefore, weight should be monitored before and shortly after starting a psychotropic drug therapy and a 5% increase above baseline weight after the first month should prompt physicians to reconsider therapeutic options or to initiate weight-controlling strategies ( 33 , 34 ). Table 1. Overview of the Psychotropic Drugs and Their Mean Effect on Weight View in own window Drug class Weight loss Weight neutral (< 1 kg/y) Minor weight gain (1-5 kg/y) Major weight gain (> 5 kg/y) Antidepressants Tricyclic agents amitriptylline nortriptylline imipramine desipramine dosulepine doxepine clomipramine SSRI escitalopram paroxetine citalopram fluoxetine sertraline SNRI duloxetin venlafaxin MAO-inhibitors moclobemide phenelzine Other bupropion reboxetine trazodone nefazodone mirtazapine maprotiline mianserine Antipsychotics Typical molindone haloperidol perphenazine Atypical aripiprazol ziprasidone lurasidone paliperidone iloperidone asenapine amisulpiride quietiapine risperidone sertindole clozapine olanzapine Anticonvulsants topiramate zonisamide lamotrigine levtiracetam Tiagabine oxcarbazepine gabapentine pregabalin valproate carbamazepine Mood stabilizers lithium ANTIDEPRESSANT MEDICATIONS The magnitude of weight gain during antidepressant therapy differs significantly by class. Tricyclic Agents The greatest potential to induce weight gain has been shown with the tricyclic agents’ amitriptyline and nortriptyline. Antidepressant–induced weight gain has been clearly established in the acute and maintenance period
