Drugs That Affect Body Weight, Body Fat Distribution, and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, gain, weight gain, patients, fat, metabolic, effects, associated, treatment, therapy, insulin, drugs, diabetes, free


The greatest potential to induce weight gain has been shown with the tricyclic agents’ amitriptyline and nortriptyline. Antidepressant–induced weight gain has been clearly established in the acute and maintenance period of depression therapy and is not related to disease severity. Medications from this drug class are also associated with weight gain when used for other indications, such as neuropathic pain or anxiety. To date, no predisposing factors to weight gain resulting from these drugs has been clearly identified ( 35 ). Serotonin Agents During initial treatment, several selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI’s) (citalopram, fluoxetine, sertraline) and serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRI’s) (venlafaxine and duloxetine) are associated with a slight weight loss. However, with chronic therapy many have shown weight gain. Paroxetine is considered to be the SSRI with the greatest long-term weight gain, possibly due to its affinity for the cholinergic receptor ( 35 , 36 ). Bupropion Bupropion, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor and nicotinic antagonist, reduces appetite and food cravings ( 37 ). In combination with naltrexone, bupropion is approved as an antiobesity drug in United States of America (USA) and the European Union (EU) ( 38 ). LITHIUM In randomized controlled trials, the incidence of significant weight gain (more than 5% of initial body weight) has been described to be as high as 60% of the patients on lithium therapy for bipolar disorder. Risk factors for weight gain are a high baseline weight, younger age, co-administration of antidepressants, and female sex ( 39 ). The exact mechanism by which lithium exerts these adverse effects on weight is still unknown. Possible mechanisms include a direct effect on hypothalamic centers controlling appetite, increased thirst and increased intake of high caloric drinks, changes in food preference, and its influence on thyroid function with increased incidence of hypothyroidism ( 39 , 40 ). ANTIPSYCHOTICS The number of individuals in the population receiving antipsychotic drugs is surprisingly high, most commonly for psychosis, although antipsychotic drugs are also widely used to treat other psychiatric conditions like bipolar disorders, attention deficit disorder, and dementia in the elderly ( 41 , 42 ). Typical and Atypical Antipsychotics Several major chemical classes of antipsychotic drugs have been developed, mainly the phenothiazines (e.g., chlorpromazine), the butyrophenones (e.g., haloperidol), and the thioxanthines (e.g., flupenthixol). All these “conventional,” or typical, neuroleptics are effective because they are dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, but they all have major neurological side
