Drugs That Affect Body Weight, Body Fat Distribution, and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, gain, weight gain, patients, fat, metabolic, effects, associated, treatment, therapy, insulin, drugs, diabetes, free


butyrophenones (e.g., haloperidol), and the thioxanthines (e.g., flupenthixol). All these “conventional,” or typical, neuroleptics are effective because they are dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, but they all have major neurological side effects ( 43 ). Therefore, newer drugs, the atypical antipsychotics or second-generation antipsychotics (SGAP), are increasingly replacing the conventional neuroleptics. These atypical antipsychotics are characterized by a combined activity on both the D2 and 5-HT2a receptors. Besides their antagonistic effects on these receptors, they possess diverse pharmacologic interactions with a number of neurotransmitter receptors ( 44 ). Up to 80% of patients taking antipsychotic medication experience weight gain that exceeds their ideal body weight by 20% or more ( 45 ). Weight gain variability is high in between these drugs, which has been ascribed to both a high affinity for the H1-histaminic receptor as well as, to a lesser extent, the α1-adrenergic and 5-HT2c-receptors ( 44 ). The largest weight gain is consistently associated with olanzapine and clozapine. Weight gain promoting effects of the antipsychotics seem to be more pronounced in people with a normal body weight at baseline and more in women than in men. Weight gain associated with long-term treatment is time- and dose-dependent and can be predicted by weight increases in the first weeks of treatment. Drug-naïve patients gain significantly more weight than patients exposed to antipsychotics in the past and studies in pediatric patients demonstrate greater absolute weight gain in this group than in adults. Patients who have greater treatment-emergent weight gain are more likely to benefit from treatment with antipsychotics ( 33 , 46 - 48 ). Although SGAP’s influence food intake by altering neurotransmitter function in the hypothalamus, thus leading to excess caloric consumption, obesity, and insulin resistance ( 49 ), weight gain is not the only concern for patients taking antipsychotic medication ( Figure 2 ). SGAP’s can also promote lipogenesis and enhance antilipolytic effects of insulin, thereby favoring lipid accumulation and adipocyte enlargement and inducing insulin resistance ( 50 ). Metabolic sequela includes glucose dysregulation and an increased risk for developing metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes ( 51 , 52 ). Although an increased prevalence of metabolic syndrome has been reported in drug naïve patients with diverse psychoses, there is a significant association with longer disease duration and with the intake of clozapine in particular ( 51 , 53 ). In one 5-year study of clozapine-treated patients, 52% experienced one or
