Drugs That Affect Body Weight, Body Fat Distribution, and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, gain, weight gain, patients, fat, metabolic, effects, associated, treatment, therapy, insulin, drugs, diabetes, free


significant association with longer disease duration and with the intake of clozapine in particular ( 51 , 53 ). In one 5-year study of clozapine-treated patients, 52% experienced one or more episodes of hyperglycemia and 30% were diagnosed as having type 2 diabetes ( 54 ). Newer SGAP appear to have fewer metabolic side effects ( 1 , 2 , 55 , 56 ). The development of diabetes in patients taking antipsychotic has also been reported in patients without significant weight changes. SGAP’s are associated with a marked increase in insulin resistance in muscle, adipose tissue, and liver ( 49 ), possibly mediated by impaired GLUT-4 and GLUT-5 glucose transporter function ( 57 ). In addition, a direct impairment of pancreatic β-cell function and decreased insulin secretion has been linked to the affinity of these drugs for the 5HT-1a and 5HT-2 serotonin receptors of the β-cells ( 49 ). Manifestations of insulin resistance, impaired glucose tolerance, metabolic syndrome (including elevations in triglyceride levels and reductions in HDL cholesterol), and type 2 diabetes contribute to the higher incidence of cardiovascular disease in patients taking these drugs. People with psychosis have a 20% shorter life expectancy than the general population, mainly driven by an increase in cardiovascular disease ( 53 , 58 ). In view of the high cardiometabolic risk associated with antipsychotic drug use, the American Diabetes Association and American Psychiatric Association (ADA/APA) Consensus Development Conference recommends close monitoring of weight and metabolic and cardiovascular risk factors in all patients taking SGAP’s ( 34 ). Figure 1. Schematic representation of the central and peripheral mechanisms of antipsychotic-induced weight gain and metabolic side effects as well as current and future preventive and therapeutic options. HPA axis: hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal axis, GLP-1: glucagon like peptide-1, GLP1RA: GLP-1 receptor agonist, RMR: resting metabolic rate, IL6: interleukin-6, TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor-α, IR: insulin resistance, PKC-βi: protein kinase C-β inhibitor, CB1R: cannabinoid receptor type 1, periph CB1Ri: peripheral cannabinoid receptor type 1 inhibitor, SREBP1c: sterol regulatory element-binding proteins type 1c, AMPK: AMP-activated protein kinase (Reprinted by permission from Springer Nature Customer Service Centr GmbH: J Endocrinol Invest. 2017;40( 11 ):1165-1174) ( 2 ). Therapy and Prevention of Antipsychotic Weight Gain Many studies have evaluated pharmacological and non-pharmacological approaches to prevent or treat weight gain that accompanies SGAP treatment. Of non-pharmacological interventions, no significant difference was found between individual and group interventions, or cognitive-behavioral versus nutritional counselling. Adherence to
