Drugs That Affect Body Weight, Body Fat Distribution, and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, gain, weight gain, patients, fat, metabolic, effects, associated, treatment, therapy, insulin, drugs, diabetes, free


to prevent or treat weight gain that accompanies SGAP treatment. Of non-pharmacological interventions, no significant difference was found between individual and group interventions, or cognitive-behavioral versus nutritional counselling. Adherence to the weight management program appears the best prognostic factor for achieved weight loss. To promote therapeutic alliance, weight management programs should be flexible and individualized to the patient’s needs, age and stage of their disease and incorporate daily recreational-based activities. Benefits are thought to be the greatest when delivered as early as possible, before weight gain has occurred ( 59 ). Switching to another antipsychotic drug with less potential for weight and cardiometabolic side effects has been endorsed by the ADA/APA consensus guidelines in those with more than 5% weight gain or worsening of their lipid or glycemia parameters, following studies that show benefits of this strategy to limit further weight gain or reduce weight and reverse components of the metabolic syndrome ( 34 , 60 ) ( Table 2 ). For example, use of the SNRI reboxetine may reduce olanzapine-induced weight gain in schizophrenia patients. Weight and metabolic benefits have also been reported by switching to, or the addition of, topiramate, amantadine, fluvoxamine, and orlistat ( 61 - 63 ). With metformin, attenuation or reduction of weight gain and amelioration of the metabolic side effects of SGAP therapy has been demonstrated, with greater benefits the earlier metformin was started ( 61 , 64 ). In a rodent study, the addition of metformin and berberine prevented the loss of brown fat induced by olanzapine and was associated with favorable changes in expression of several genes controlling energy expenditure ( 65 ). Table 2. Mean Weight Reducing Effects of Switching to a Less Metabolically Active SGAP or Addition of Weight Reducing Drugs ( 60 , 63 ). View in own window Action Mean weight reduction (kg) 95% CI Switch to: aripiprazole or quietiapine from olanzapine -1.94 -3.90 to 0.08 Addition of: Metformin -2.94 -4.89 to -0.99 Topiramate -2.52 -4.87 to -0.16 Reboxetine -1.90 -3.07 to -0.72 In patients who are obese or with diabetes, glucagon-like protein-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1 RA) demonstrate long-lasting weight loss and benefits on glucose metabolism ( 1 , 3 ). Growing evidence suggests that patients who are overweight and those with psychosis exhibit similar structural brain changes, cognitive deficits, and central neuropeptide alterations, suggesting an overlap between the pathophysiological pathways of these disorders ( 66 ). GLP-1
