Drugs That Affect Body Weight, Body Fat Distribution, and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, gain, weight gain, patients, fat, metabolic, effects, associated, treatment, therapy, insulin, drugs, diabetes, free


overweight and those with psychosis exhibit similar structural brain changes, cognitive deficits, and central neuropeptide alterations, suggesting an overlap between the pathophysiological pathways of these disorders ( 66 ). GLP-1 RA’s have been shown to provide neuroprotective effects in cerebral degenerative diseases such as Parkinson’s disease, Huntington’s chorea, and Alzheimer’s dementia ( 66 ). Liraglutide, a once daily injected GLP-1 RA, reverses SGAP-induced weight gain, impaired glucose tolerance, metabolic side effects and behavioral depression ( 67 - 69 ). Mifepristone, a glucocorticoid and progestin receptor antagonist, attenuated increases in weight and reduced the metabolic changes induced by risperidone and olanzapine, suggesting mechanistic involvement of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis in the weight and cardiometabolic side effects of antipsychotic medications ( 70 ). The orally effective selective protein kinase C-β (PKC- β) inhibitor ruboxistaurin, which is used in treatment of diabetes-associated retinopathy and macular edema, attenuates the effects on adipose tissue differentiation by clozapine in rodents. If this is shown to be relevant for humans, it could offer a new target for the prevention of antipsychotic-induced weight gain ( 71 ). Because of the associations between inflammation, adiposity and psychiatric disease, other therapeutic options being explored to improve psychiatric symptoms without adverse metabolic sequelae include COX-2 selective non- steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and monoclonal antibodies against anti TNF-α and Interleukin-6 ( 72 , 73 ). Anti-Seizure Drugs Many of the anti-epileptic treatments are associated with weight change. Most prominent are valproate and carbamazepine, inducing weight gain in 71% and 43% of the patients, respectively. Pregabalin and gabapentin can also induce weight gain and are of particular importance since they are used more and more in the treatment of neuropathic pain, including in patients with diabetes. Weight neutral anti-epileptic drugs include lamotrigine, levetiracetam and phenytoin. Some others are associated with weight loss, including felbamate, topiramate, and zonisamide ( 74 ). Weight-inducing effects of valproate are thought to result from interactions with appetite-regulating neuropeptides and cytokines within the hypothalamus as well as effects on energy expenditure ( 75 ). Greater weight gain is associated with longer duration of treatment with valproate, although most weight gain is observed within the first year. Specific categories of patients shown to be more susceptible to weight gain with this medication include women (vs. men), post-pubertal adolescents (vs. younger children), and those who are overweight before treatment begins. On the other hand, weight gain is not related to valproate dosage or
