Drugs That Affect Body Weight, Body Fat Distribution, and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, gain, weight gain, patients, fat, metabolic, effects, associated, treatment, therapy, insulin, drugs, diabetes, free


include women (vs. men), post-pubertal adolescents (vs. younger children), and those who are overweight before treatment begins. On the other hand, weight gain is not related to valproate dosage or serum levels ( 75 ). Peripheral actions are thought to mediate valproates adverse effects on glucose and lipid metabolism that contribute to weight-independent worsening of insulin resistance and risk for type 2 diabetes. Directs effects in adipose tissue have been shown to increase leptin resistance, decrease adiponectin levels, as well as increase free fatty acids, all resulting in insulin resistance ( 76 ). On the other hand, valproic acid is associated with β-cell dysfunction and impaired insulin secretion by increasing oxidative stress, and direct inhibition of the GLUT-1 transporter, thereby hampering insulin secretion in an insulin resistant state, promoting hyperglycemia and type 2 diabetes ( 76 - 78 ). Besides the increased risk for hyperglycemia and type 2 diabetes, an increased risk of other features of the metabolic syndrome (e.g., dyslipidemia) as well as endothelial dysfunction has been demonstrated. It has additionally been reported that up to 60% of the patients taking valproate also develop non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, further contributing to insulin resistance, chronic inflammation, and increased risk for cardiovascular disease ( 79 ). With the other anticonvulsants, weight gain can be considerable in susceptible patients ( 74 ). However, in contrast to valproate, metabolic side effects accompanying use of carbamazepine, pregabalin and gabapentin are thought to be secondary to the induced weight gain rather than weight-independent mechanisms ( 80 ). On the other hand, topiramate and zonisamide have been shown to decrease body weight, even when studied in populations with obesity and overweight without any seizure history. Adding topiramate to another antiepileptic, antipsychotic or antidepressant drug, or changing anticonvulsant therapy for topiramate or zonisamide can help prevent or treat weight gain that accompanies psychiatric or anticonvulsant therapy ( 63 , 81 ). In the USA, the combination therapy topiramate/phentermine is approved as an antiobesity drug ( 82 ). Drugs associated with weight gain and lipodystrophy Corticosteroids Although weight gain is considered a common side-effect of long-term treatment with glucocorticoids, prospective studies examining weight gain are scarce. Self-reported data in patients using chronic corticoid therapy show substantial weight gain in up to 70% of all patients ( 83 ). The weight gain associated with glucocorticoid therapy can be massive with over 10 kg increases in approximately 20% of patients in their
