Drugs That Affect Body Weight, Body Fat Distribution, and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, gain, weight gain, patients, fat, metabolic, effects, associated, treatment, therapy, insulin, drugs, diabetes, free


to 70% of all patients ( 83 ). The weight gain associated with glucocorticoid therapy can be massive with over 10 kg increases in approximately 20% of patients in their first treatment year of treatment. The risk of weight gain with glucocorticoids is dose dependent and significantly increases with intakes above the equivalent of oral or parenteral 5 mg prednisone per day. Inhaled corticosteroids and single epidural steroid injections have no effect on body weight. Glucocorticoids may induce an increase in food intake and dietary preference for high-caloric, high-fat ‘comfort foods’ through changes in the activity of AMP-activated protein kinase in the hypothalamus ( 84 - 86 ). Glucocorticoids decrease thermogenesis and uncoupling protein 1 (UCP-1) expression in brown adipose tissue, thereby influencing metabolic rate ( 87 ). Chronic glucocorticoid therapy or a state of chronic hyperactivation of the hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal (HPA) axis is associated with activation of the endocannabinoid (eCB) system, which is a potent regulator of food intake and decreases energy expenditure ( 88 ). Glucocorticoids also affect body fat distribution by increasing visceral fat mass, thereby increasing insulin resistance and the risk for impaired glucose tolerance, diabetes and cardiovascular disease ( 89 ). Although the mechanisms for this are not completely understood, glucocorticoids acutely stimulate lipolysis through the activation of hormone-sensitive lipase and an increased catecholamine responsiveness. When this disproportionately affects fat stores in the extremities, it can lead to loss of these depots, or lipodystrophy, the risk of which has been reported to be higher among females and younger patients and increases with a higher baseline body mass index ( 90 ). On the other hand, during chronic administration or exposure to high endogenous plasma corticoid concentration such as in Cushing’s syndrome, they promote both adipocyte hypertrophy by increasing synthesis and storage of lipids and adipose tissue hyperplasia by increasing differentiation of preadipocytes to mature adipocytes. Visceral adipose tissue has a higher glucocorticoid receptor density as compared with other fat depots, which might favor enhanced expansion of visceral adipose tissue ( 89 ). These differential effects on visceral and subcutaneous fat may be mediated by differential regulation of key metabolic genes including lipoprotein lipase, 11-beta-hydroxysteroid-dehydrogenase-1 (11β-HSD-1) and UCP-1 ( 89 ). Glucocorticoid induced overexpression of 11β-HSD-1 in adipose tissue leads to an increase of plasma triglycerides and cholesterol levels, while 11β-HSD-1 overexpression in liver promotes insulin resistance, hepatic steatosis, and increased lipid synthesis ( 91 , 92
