Drugs That Affect Body Weight, Body Fat Distribution, and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, gain, weight gain, patients, fat, metabolic, effects, associated, treatment, therapy, insulin, drugs, diabetes, free


adipose tissue leads to an increase of plasma triglycerides and cholesterol levels, while 11β-HSD-1 overexpression in liver promotes insulin resistance, hepatic steatosis, and increased lipid synthesis ( 91 , 92 ). In the liver, glucocorticoids act through peripheral stimulation of the cannabinoid-1 receptor (CB1R), inducing hepatic lipogenesis, steatosis and dyslipidemia. By enhancing CB1R in adipose tissue, glucocorticoids induce insulin resistance (IR) and obesity. Blocking the peripheral CB1R attenuates all aspects of metabolic dysregulation by glucocorticoids, leading the path to potential therapeutic option by selective peripheral CB1R blockers ( 88 ). These properties make specific 11β-HSD-1 inhibitors or peripheral CB1R blockers promising candidate drugs to reverse or prevent glucocorticoid-induced side effects. Hypolipidemic Drugs Protein convertase subtilisin kexin type 9 (PCSK9) regulates plasma low-density lipoprotein levels and low-density lipoprotein receptor expression in several tissues. Fully human monoclonal PCSK-9 inhibitors (alirocumab and evolocumab) and small interfering RNA molecules designed to target PCSK9 messenger RNA (inclisiran) have demonstrated substantial and sustained reductions in LDL-cholesterol levels, as well as significant reductions in major cardiovascular events ( 93 ). Although no obvious side effects on body weight and body fat composition or on glucose tolerance were reported in these trials, patients with genetically low PCSK9 (R46L polymorphism) have a two-fold increased prevalence of hepatic steatosis and greater epicardial fat thickness ( 94 ). PCSK9 variants associated with lower LDL cholesterol have also been associated with higher fasting glucose levels, bodyweight, and waist-to-hip ratio, and an increased risk of type 2 diabetes ( 95 ). PCSK9 KO mice display higher visceral adipose tissue (but not subcutaneous adipose tissue), compared with wild type mice, suggesting that genetically determined PCSK9 deficiency might be associated with ectopic fat accumulation ( 94 ). It has been shown that besides the effects of LDL-R regulation in liver tissue, PCSK9 regulates VLDL-R, ApoE2 R and the CD36 receptor. PCSK9 deficiency results in reduced post-prandial lipemia and triglyceride rich lipoprotein production, while its overexpression promotes hepatic lipogenesis ( 96 ). Therefore, in genetic studies in animals and humans, PCSK9 is plays a pivotal role in fat metabolism: it regulates circulating cholesterol levels via hepatic LDL-R, but it also influences visceral adipogenesis via adipose VLDL-R regulation ( 97 ). Therapies that reduce the rate of VLDL secretion represent an attractive alternative for reducing plasma concentrations of pro-atherogenic lipoproteins. Mipomersen is a second-generation anti-sense oligonucleotide that inhibits the translation of the apolipoprotein B by binding to
