Drugs That Affect Body Weight, Body Fat Distribution, and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, gain, weight gain, patients, fat, metabolic, effects, associated, treatment, therapy, insulin, drugs, diabetes, free


VLDL secretion represent an attractive alternative for reducing plasma concentrations of pro-atherogenic lipoproteins. Mipomersen is a second-generation anti-sense oligonucleotide that inhibits the translation of the apolipoprotein B by binding to the mRNA sequence of apolipoprotein B. Mipomersen reduces apolipoprotein B synthesis in the liver and the production of VLDL (and hence to IDL and LDL as well) and increases catabolism of VLDL. On the other hand, the hepatic production rate of triglycerides is unaffected ( 98 ). In clinical trials, mipomersen is associated with an approximately four times higher risk for hepatic steatosis. In contrast to NAFLD associated with common obesity, however, mipomersen-induced liver steatosis is not associated with an increase in inflammation or fibrosis ( 99 ). Microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTP) is the key protein that delivers the lipid droplet to nascent VLDL and chylomicron particles during the assembly and secretion of lipoproteins in liver and intestine. MTP inhibition (e.g. lomitapide) decreases the secretion of chylomicrons and VLDL, thereby reducing the production of triglyceride rich lipoproteins and ultimately the production of LDL. Treatment with this drug also induces intra-hepatic fat accumulation, but in contrast to mipomersen, MTP inhibition is associated with greater (up to six-fold) increases in hepatic fat content and more severe increases in transaminase levels ( 100 ). Acyl-CoA: cholesterol O-acyl transferase 2 (ACAT2) plays an important role in maintaining cellular cholesterol homeostasis. When absorbed cholesterol enters the body, it is esterified by ACAT2 and directed to the liver, where it is stored within hepatocytes in lipid droplets as cholesteryl esters. Recently it was shown in high-fat fed mice that mechanisms linking accumulation of hepatic cholesteryl esters with hepatic triglyceride accumulation depend not just on de-novo triglyceride synthesis and lipogenesis secondary to hyperinsulinemia and hyperglycemia, but also on the presence of cholesteryl ester in hepatocytes limiting mobilization of triglycerides from the liver ( 101 ). Studies have shown that ACAT inhibitors are effective for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia and atherosclerosis in rodents, however data in humans have been disappointing ( 102 ). The recent data coupling lower cholesteryl esters content to higher TG mobilization, as is realized by selective ACAT2 inhibitors, needs further study not only for treating hypercholesterolemia and atherosclerosis but also for the therapy of NAFLD. Antiretroviral Therapy Shortly after the introduction of effective highly-active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) disease, it became clear that patients on these
