Drugs That Affect Body Weight, Body Fat Distribution, and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, gain, weight gain, patients, fat, metabolic, effects, associated, treatment, therapy, insulin, drugs, diabetes, free


(animal data) 0 0 0 Post attachment inhibitors Ibalizumab No data No data 0 0 (+ = increase; 0 = neutral: +/- = discrepant) Risk factors for lipoatrophy are male gender, older age, lower weight before therapy, lower CD4 cell counts, a higher baseline viral load, and co-infection with hepatitis C. Certain mitochondrial haplotypes and nuclear genetic polymorphisms are associated with an increased risk for lipoatrophy ( 104 , 105 ). In addition, there is a clear association of lipoatrophy with stavudine and zidovudine use, while switching to other retroviral drugs or using an NRTI-sparing regimen reverses lipoatrophy ( 106 ). While the distribution of lipoatrophy is specific for HIV infected patients and anti-HIV therapy ( Table 3 ), abdominal fat accumulation seems not to be associated with specific antiretroviral drugs and carries the same risk for metabolic syndrome as non-medication-associated visceral fat accumulation. Risk factors associated with fat accumulation during HAART are increasing age, female sex, weight before start of antiretroviral therapy, dietary factors, and longer duration of HIV treatment ( 104 ). In the AIDS Clinical Trial Group study (A5175), the prevalence of overweight or obesity increased from 25% to 40% after 144 weeks of HAART. In another trial a 30% increase in visceral fat mass was seen after 96 weeks of therapy ( 107 ). Whether lipohypertrophy can be directly attributed to HAART or represents the effects of treating HIV itself, is still a matter of debate. Indeed, central fat gain generally occurs at similar rates in patients randomized to different HAART regimens, is not associated with any specific antiretroviral drug or drug class, and does not reverse on switching antiretrovirals ( 106 , 108 ). In addition to the promotion of generalized weight gain, increases of as little as 5% of visceral adipose tissue are associated with increased metabolic risk, cardiovascular side effects, and even 5-year mortality. Stated differently, the cardiometabolic risk of weight gain in HIV patients is much higher than comparable weight gain in non-HIV infected controls ( 109 ). Therefore, the European AIDS Clinical Society recommends monitoring for changes in body composition of HIV patients by using body mass index, waist circumference, waist-to-hip ratio, and to screen regularly for clinical lipodystrophy in all patients at HIV diagnosis, before starting HAART, and annually thereafter. Fat atrophy should be distinguished from general wasting associated with advanced AIDS, where besides wasting of fat mass, lean body
