Drugs That Affect Body Weight, Body Fat Distribution, and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, gain, weight gain, patients, fat, metabolic, effects, associated, treatment, therapy, insulin, drugs, diabetes, free


patients at HIV diagnosis, before starting HAART, and annually thereafter. Fat atrophy should be distinguished from general wasting associated with advanced AIDS, where besides wasting of fat mass, lean body mass is also lost. To distinguish visceral fat accumulation from simple obesity, skin fold measures can help since in HIV-induced abdominal fat accumulation, subcutaneous fat is normal or decreased, while it mostly increases in patients with simple obesity ( 110 ). Figure 2. Major pathogenetic pathways in HIV-induced lipodystrophy and its metabolic consequences (adapted from Debarle MC et al ( 111 )) Pathogenetic Mechanisms of HIV Induced Lipodystrophy Lipodystrophy is considered to be multifactorial, resulting from the complex interaction of host factors, HIV-related factors, and antiretroviral drug specific factors (Figure 3). While lipodystrophy is clearly linked to antiretroviral therapy, disturbances in adipose tissue gene expression are present in treatment-naïve patients with HIV, indicating that HIV-1 infection itself likely creates alterations in adipose tissue that are worsened by antiretroviral therapy ( 108 , 112 ). When used in monotherapy, lipoatrophy is not noticed in patients using protease-inhibitors (PI). However, the co-administration of PI’s with nucleoside and nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTI’s), such as stavudine and zidovudine, play an additive role in the NRTI-induced lipodystrophy ( 106 ). The older nucleoside analogues inhibit mitochondrial DNA polymerase-γ within adipocytes causing mtDNA depletion and mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress in subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT). Together with a genetic predisposition and mitochondrial dysfunction secondary to HIV itself, NRTI’s contribute in mitochondrial toxicity and increased oxidative stress, inhibiting adipogenesis and adipocyte differentiation, and promoting apoptosis, lipolysis, and dyslipidemia ( 105 , 113 ). Lipoatrophy is associated with inflammation, as shown by an increased macrophage number and expression of TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-8 together with increased fibrosis ( 114 ). Adipose tissue serves as a reservoir for HIV virus, altering adipose tissue environment and causing adipose tissue inflammation. The HIV accessory viral protein R (Vpr) inhibits PPAR-γ, impairs the expression of genes related to adipocyte metabolism including adiponectin and activates glucocorticoid target gene expression, inducing macrophage infiltration and adipose tissue hypertrophy ( 108 ). Therefore, it appears that HIV-1 infection initiates a first wave of alterations in adipose tissue that is amplified by HAART and ultimately results in lipoatrophy. PI’s are more closely associated with lipo-accumulation ( 115 ). They interfere with adipocyte maturation and differentiation by alterations in gene expression of several transcriptase factors (SREBP-1, PPAR-γ,
