Drugs That Affect Body Weight, Body Fat Distribution, and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, gain, weight gain, patients, fat, metabolic, effects, associated, treatment, therapy, insulin, drugs, diabetes, free


in lipoatrophy. PI’s are more closely associated with lipo-accumulation ( 115 ). They interfere with adipocyte maturation and differentiation by alterations in gene expression of several transcriptase factors (SREBP-1, PPAR-γ, C/EBPα and β genes) and genes encoding for acyl coenzyme-A synthase, lipoprotein lipase, GLUT-4, leptin and adiponectin, resulting in impaired fatty acid and glucose uptake, increased lipolysis and peripheral fat loss, increased triglyceride esterification and central fat accumulation. The imbalance in the production of adipokines (adiponectin and leptin) and infiltration of immune cells into adipose tissue exacerbate the pro-inflammatory environment ( 114 ). PPAR-γ expression is also reduced by NRTI’s. The non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) efavirenz decreases expression of SREBP-1c, thus decreasing intracellular stores of triglycerides, and exerts anti-adipogenic effects in cultured adipose cells ( 116 ). Mitochondrial DNA depletion is common to both subcutaneous and visceral or dorsocervical depots in HIV lipodystrophy and mitochondrial dysfunction in visceral adipose tissue (VAT) was found to be similar to that in SAT. In SAT, mitochondrial dysfunction is linked with lipoatrophy, whereas in VAT lipohypertrophy results. These observations indicate that different responses occurring in subcutaneous and visceral fat depots during HAART treatment are likely related to intrinsic differences in physiology between these depots ( 114 ). Increases in proinflammatory cytokines, such as TNF-α and interleukin-6 further contribute to the development of lipodystrophy and their metabolic consequences. TNF-α inhibits adipocyte differentiation, increases apoptosis and mitochondrial toxicity and activates 11β-HSD-1 resulting in increased lipid accumulation in adipocytes, lipolysis and insulin resistance. In addition, increased fat tissue fibrosis and lipo-hypertrophy, are associated with ectopic lipid accumulation in liver, muscle and heart further increasing cardiometabolic complications ( 111 ). Older PI‘s (indinavir, lopinavir and ritonavir) are associated with abnormalities in glucose tolerance and their use is associated with a threefold increase in the risk of diabetes compared to other treatment options. PI‘s inhibit the uptake of glucose into cells by interfering with the GLUT-4 glucose transporter and decrease insulin secretion through effects on β-cell function. Following chronic treatment, this insulin resistance leads to an inadequate suppression of lipolysis and endogenous glucose production as well as a decreased peripheral glucose uptake. Newer PI’s like darinavir and atazanavir and Integrase inhibitors (INSTI’s) have only limited effects on glucose metabolism. Of the nucleoside analogues, stavudine and zidovudine have been associated with the greatest increase in insulin resistance ( 114 , 117 ). Finally, the hypothalamic-pituitary-growth hormone axis may also
