Drugs That Affect Body Weight, Body Fat Distribution, and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, gain, weight gain, patients, fat, metabolic, effects, associated, treatment, therapy, insulin, drugs, diabetes, free


metabolism. Of the nucleoside analogues, stavudine and zidovudine have been associated with the greatest increase in insulin resistance ( 114 , 117 ). Finally, the hypothalamic-pituitary-growth hormone axis may also be involved in the metabolic changes associated with lipodystrophy. Mean growth hormone levels and growth hormone pulse amplitude are reduced in HIV-infected men with body-fat changes receiving HAART, compared with men without body-fat changes and healthy control subjects ( 118 ). Abnormalities of lipid metabolism in HIV-infected patients were described before the advent of HAART and are mainly characterized by increases in triglycerides by a decreased triglyceride clearance and increased hepatic VLDL synthesis and apolipoprotein-E levels. In advanced AIDS disease, reduced HDL-cholesterol and a predominance of small, dense LDL particles have been reported ( 119 ). The chronic inflammation of the HIV infection itself and the associated increase in circulating cytokines can induce dyslipidemia. With the use of HAART, these lipid abnormalities tend to increase in severity and in their prevalence, with sometimes dramatic increases in lipid concentrations, particularly triglycerides ( 119 , 120 ). The prevalence and severity of lipid abnormalities varies widely depending on the type of HAART, nutritional status, and HIV disease stage. Risk factors seem to be a higher viral load, a family history of lipid abnormalities, less physical activity, increasing weight, greater BMI and greater trunk-to-limb fat ratio ( 104 , 119 ). Lipid changes and therapy of dyslipidemia in patients on retroviral therapy are described elsewhere in Endotext ( 121 ). Therapy of HIV Associated Lipodystrophy In patients with visceral fat accumulation, combined aerobic and strength training is generally recognized to reduce visceral fat and biomarkers for inflammation ( 108 ). Switching from a thymidine analogue NRTI (e.g. stavudine or zidovudine) to an alternative agent is considered to be a reasonable strategy to reverse or slow progression of lipoatrophy. Switching from stavudine to other NRTIs has been shown to improve mitochondrial indices, reduce fat apoptosis, and decrease some adipose tissue markers of inflammation ( 114 , 122 ). Switching to newer antiretroviral drugs has no effect on VAT accumulation. A switch from NRTI and NNRTI to protease inhibitors showed no weight changes whereas a switch to newer integrase inhibitors may cause even greater weight gain ( 123 ). As mentioned above, pituitary growth hormone (GH) secretion is altered in HIV patients, and about one-third of patients meet criteria for GH deficiency. Growth hormone therapy
