Drugs That Affect Body Weight, Body Fat Distribution, and Metabolism
KEYWORDS: weight, pubmed, gain, weight gain, patients, fat, metabolic, effects, associated, treatment, therapy, insulin, drugs, diabetes, free


gain ( 123 ). As mentioned above, pituitary growth hormone (GH) secretion is altered in HIV patients, and about one-third of patients meet criteria for GH deficiency. Growth hormone therapy in patients with ART induced lipodystrophy, reduces visceral adiposity, but is associated with supraphysiologic levels of IGF-I and symptoms of growth hormone excess. The FDA approved tesamorelin, a recombinant human GH releasing hormone, for the treatment of excess abdominal fat in HIV-infected patients. Tesamorelin decreases VAT by 15 to 18%, with a significant improvement of triglyceride and cholesterol levels. The effects of tesamorelin appear to be highly specific for the visceral-fat compartment, with relatively little effect on subcutaneous fat. The preferential reduction in VAT is important, given the peripheral lipoatrophy. The reduction in VAT is associated with greater baseline visceral fat mass, suggesting that larger effects might be seen among patients with more accumulation of visceral fat. Tesamorelin also improves lipid profiles, triglyceride levels and the ratio of total to HDL cholesterol. Despite this reduction in VAT, a small but statistically significant increase in HbA1c is seen in subjects receiving tesamorelin. Therefore, monitoring of IGF-1 and glycemic parameters is warranted ( 124 ). In patients with glucose intolerance and central obesity, metformin treatment was associated with small reductions of VAT. However, in patients with lipoatrophy, metformin should be used with caution, since a further decrease of subcutaneous fat can be induced. Doleglutavir (an integrase inhibitor) increases metformin concentration. The total daily dose of metformin should therefore not exceed 1000 mg in patients co-administrated metformin with doleglutavir ( 104 ). While the therapeutic goals and the management of diabetes in patients with HIV with or without HAART is similar to the guidelines in the general population, evidence suggests that insulin sensitizers may be preferable to insulin secretagogues. A meta-analysis of all studies with thiazolidinedione therapy (pioglitazone) showed a significantly higher limb fat mass gain in patients treated with pioglitazone. However, some studies, demonstrated a lack of effect in patients on thymidine–NRTI therapy, explained by the decreased expression of PPARγ in those patients. Any benefit appears to be small, therefore pioglitazone should be reserved to patients with severe insulin resistance and /or diabetes ( 125 , 126 ). For patients with morbid obesity and/or major obesity-related diseases, bariatric surgery can be considered. An average of 20% reduction of initial BMI, improved body composition and metabolic status was observed in patients after bariatric
