Chapter 8: Sociodemographic Characteristics of Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, age, years, age years, adults, hispanic, adults diabetes, diagnosed, error, standard, appendix, diagnosed age, standard error, non-hispanic, diabetes diagnosed


The data in this chapter of Diabetes in America, 3rd edition, originate from new analyses of two continuous national health surveys conducted by the National Center for Health Statistics of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Data from the National Health Interview Surveys (NHIS) 2006–2010 provide most of the chapter’s informa­ tion for people with diagnosed diabetes, and data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys (NHANES) 2005–2010 provide supplemental infor­ mation for people with undiagnosed diabetes and people at high risk for diabetes (commonly called prediabetes). NHIS and NHANES are cross-sectional general health surveys with independent known probability samples that produce nationally representative estimates for the civilian noninstitutionalized U.S. popula­ tion. Detailed descriptions of the survey methods and quality control procedures are available elsewhere (3,4). The demographic characteristics exam­ ined among the people with diagnosed diabetes in the NHIS and NHANES were similar. For example, the current age distribution (i.e., at the time of interview) Sociodemographic Characteristics of Persons With Diabetes 8–3 for adults age ≥20 years who had diabetes diagnosed age ≥20 years was similar in the NHIS 2006–2010 compared to the NHANES 2005–2010 (13%–14% in both surveys were age 20–44 years; 46%–48% were age 45–64 years; and 39% in both surveys were age ≥65 years). It is reassuring that the age distributions are similar in the two surveys for people with diagnosed diabetes, since age is strongly related to the age at onset of both major types of diabetes and the risk of diabetic complications, which are related to economic status (see Section II Complications of Diabetes and Related Conditions). The two surveys do not include people living in institutions or on active military duty; however, this excludes a very small percentage of adults with diagnosed diabetes. The National Nursing Home Survey 2004 found that approximately 340,000 nursing home residents age ≥65 years had diabetes (5), which represents approximately 2% of people with diagnosed diabetes in the United States according to the CDC’s reported prevalence of diabetes. In 2010, <14% of the approximately 1.4 million persons on active military duty were receiving care for diabetes in the military medical care system (6). In this chapter, the following statistical methods and definitions were used. Since NHIS and NHANES use complex survey designs with oversampling of some population subgroups to improve survey reliability, all estimates were weighted, except sample sizes. Standard errors were estimated using SUDAAN
