Chapter 8: Sociodemographic Characteristics of Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, age, years, age years, adults, hispanic, adults diabetes, diagnosed, error, standard, appendix, diagnosed age, standard error, non-hispanic, diabetes diagnosed


NHIS and NHANES use complex survey designs with oversampling of some population subgroups to improve survey reliability, all estimates were weighted, except sample sizes. Standard errors were estimated using SUDAAN (Release 11.0.0) (7). Mean differences were tested with t-tests, and p<0.05 was considered statistically significant. Percent estimates were considered significantly different if 95% confidence intervals prepared with weighted standard errors did not overlap. This method was used due to the large number of comparisons and to allow readers to make their own comparisons of estimates. Only statistically significant differences are mentioned in the text (that is based on non-overlapping 95% confidence intervals or t-tests), unless otherwise noted. No age-standardization or other adjustments were made to the data. Unless noted otherwise, age in the figures and appendices refers to age at interview. All diabetes estimates from the NHIS refer to people with diagnosed diabetes and from here forward will simply be specified as diabetes. Unless stated otherwise, adults refer to persons age ≥20 years and youth refers to persons age <20 years at the time of the survey. Relative standard errors are noted in the figures and appendices if estimates had limited statistical reliability due to small sample sizes. Estimates with relative standard errors >30%–50% should be considered with caution, and those with a relative standard error >50% are not presented. The number of persons with diabetes in the United States by age was based on the NHIS age distribution for persons with diabetes and the number of persons with diagnosed diabetes based on NHIS 2010 estimates. NATIONAL HEALTH INTERVIEW SURVEY (NHIS) The NHIS is a household-based interview survey that collects responses in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. For this analysis, multiple years of data were combined to obtain more statistically reliable estimates for the various diabetes categories (see the next paragraph for further details). Between 2006 and 2010, NHIS provided data for approximately 74,000–90,000 interviewed persons annually (3). The final annual NHIS response rates among adults during 2005–2010 were ≥60.8% for adults and ≥70.7% for youth. Since the NHIS is an interview survey, it is only able to distin­ guish people with diagnosed diabetes from people without diagnosed diabetes. To identify people with diabetes, NHIS asked respondents (or rarely a family proxy), “(Other than during pregnancy for females), Have you EVER been told by a doctor or other health professional that you have diabetes or sugar diabetes?”
