Chapter 8: Sociodemographic Characteristics of Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, age, years, age years, adults, hispanic, adults diabetes, diagnosed, error, standard, appendix, diagnosed age, standard error, non-hispanic, diabetes diagnosed


(or rarely a family proxy), “(Other than during pregnancy for females), Have you EVER been told by a doctor or other health professional that you have diabetes or sugar diabetes?” If the response was “Yes,” the person was classified to have diagnosed diabetes. Persons responding “No” or “Borderline” were classified not to have diagnosed diabetes. People who reported a diabetes diagnosis were then asked “How old were you when a doctor or other health profes­ sional first told you that you had diabetes or sugar diabetes?” This was used to iden­ tify the age at diagnosis. Since diabetes was only based on interview information, some persons were classified not to have diabetes but, in fact, did have undiag­ nosed diabetes. Other research has found that approximately 28% of persons with diabetes have undiagnosed diabetes (8). The main focus of this chapter is on adults with diabetes diagnosed at age ≥20 years. To produce stable estimates for people with diagnosed diabetes, multiple years of data were combined. For adults with diabetes diagnosed at age ≥20 years, 2009 and 2010 data were combined. For people with diabetes diagnosed at age <20 years, more years of data were combined (generally 2006–2010) to increase the analytic sample size. Where possible, results were presented for youth (age <20 years) with diabetes. In 2009–2010, only 35 adults age ≥20 years (0.05%) and, in 2006–2010, only 30 youth age <20 years (0.05%) had missing data and could not be classified for diagnosed diabetes. Additional information on the NHIS is available (3,9,10,11,12). The final person sample weight was used for the NHIS estimates. NATIONAL HEALTH AND NUTRITION EXAMINATION SURVEY (NHANES) The NHANES is an interview and examina­ tion survey of approximately 5,000 people in 15 locations per year in the United States. In-home interviews are followed by physical examinations and laboratory tests in Mobile Examination Centers. Persons are selected in households based on a complex survey design. The response rates were ≥70% for all years of NHANES data used in this analysis (13). Data were released in 2-year cycles. For the new analyses in this chapter, data collected from 2005 to 2010 were combined. With the combined interview and exam­ ination components of the NHANES, it was possible to classify people as having diagnosed diabetes, undiagnosed diabetes, prediabetes, and no diabetes. 8–4 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition The interview data were used to identify people with diagnosed diabetes.
