Chapter 8: Sociodemographic Characteristics of Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, age, years, age years, adults, hispanic, adults diabetes, diagnosed, error, standard, appendix, diagnosed age, standard error, non-hispanic, diabetes diagnosed


to classify people as having diagnosed diabetes, undiagnosed diabetes, prediabetes, and no diabetes. 8–4 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition The interview data were used to identify people with diagnosed diabetes. If a person answered “Yes” to the ques­ tion “(Other than during pregnancy, if female)…Have you ever been told by a doctor or other health professional that you have diabetes or sugar diabetes?,” then they were considered to have diag­ nosed diabetes. All others were classified not to have diagnosed diabetes. To identify undiagnosed diabetes, two defi­ nitions were used. Participants who did not have diagnosed diabetes and (1) had glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c) ≥6.5% (≥48 mmol/mol) or (2) were randomly assigned to the morning sample, fasted 8–<24 hours, and had fasting plasma glucose (FPG) ≥126 mg/dL (≥6.99 mmol/L) were classified to have undiagnosed diabetes; this is considered the clinical definition because these measures are more likely to be used in the medical community due to ease of use for physicians and patients and potentially lower cost. In addition, those who satisfied the clinical definition for diabetes or who had 2-hour plasma glucose ≥200 mg/dL (≥11.10 mmol/L) after a 75 gram oral glucose challenge (i.e., an oral glucose tolerance test [OGTT]) were classified to have undi­ agnosed diabetes; this is referred to as the research definition because the added 2-hour OGTT is less likely to be used in the medical community. People were consid­ ered to have prediabetes among those without diagnosed or clinically defined undiagnosed diabetes if their FPG was 100–125 mg/dL (5.55–6.94 mmol/L) or their A1c was 5.7%–6.4% (39–46 mmol/ mol). Those with A1c <5.7% and FPG <100 mg/dL were classified as having no diabetes. In 2005–2010, 6.1% could not be classified using the clinical defi­ nition, and 13.7% could not be classified using the research definition. NHANES- recommended glucose corrections were used (14). Sample weighted estimates included home interview weights for diagnosed diabetes; Mobile Examination Center examination weights for undiag­ nosed diabetes or prediabetes identified by A1c; and fasting or OGTT weights for no diabetes, undiagnosed diabetes, or prediabetes identified by FPG or OGTT, respectively, which maximizes the use of survey information and sample sizes. DEMOGRAPHIC CHARACTERISTICS AGE DISTRIBUTION The age distribution of people with diag­ nosed diabetes (mean age 59.3 years) was older than people without diagnosed diabetes (mean age 35.3 years) (Figure 8.1). The range of ages for people with diabetes was 2–85 years, and the
