Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: histoplasmosis, treatment, pulmonary, itraconazole, patients, diseases, infectious, infectious diseases, acute, guideline, society, guidelines, acute pulmonary, evidence, med


IDSA GUIDELINES 2025 Clinical Practice Guideline Update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America on Histoplasmosis: Treatment of Asymptomatic Histoplasma Pulmonary Nodules (Histoplasmomas) and Mild or Moderate Acute Pulmonary Histoplasmosis in Adults, Children, and Pregnant People Sandra R. Arnold,1,2,aAndrej Spec,3,a, John W. Baddley,4Peter Pappas,5Robert J. Lentz,6, Joshua Wolf,7, Carol A. Kauffman,8Monica I. Ardura,9,10 Nevert Badreldin,11Nathan C. Bahr,12,13Karen Bloch,14Rachel A. Miller,15Satish Mocherla,16Michael Saccente,17Ilan Schwartz,15Kayla R. Stover,18 Nathan P. Wiederhold,19and Jennifer Loveless20 Infectious Diseases Society of America, Arlington, Virginia, USA people, developed by the Infectious Diseases Society of America, we present 4 updated recommendations. These recommendations span treatment of asymptomatic Histoplasma pulmonary nodules (histoplasmomas), mild acute pulmonary histoplasmosis, and moderate acute pulmonary histoplasmosis. The panel’s recommendations are based on evidence derived from systematic literature reviews and adhere to a standardized methodology for rating the certainty of evidence and strength of recommendation according to the GRADE (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation) approach. Keywords. histoplasmosis; histoplasmoma; asymptomatic pulmonary nodules; guideline. Histoplasmosis is caused by infection with the thermally dimor- varies from asymptomatic to severe disease depending on inoc- phic fungus Histoplasma capsulatum. Histoplasmosis occurs ulum and cell-mediated immune function. Asymptomatic pul- through inhalation of H. capsulatum which has a worldwide dis- monary histoplasmosis, and mild, moderate, and severe acute tribution but is hyperendemic in specific areas, such as the mid- pulmonary histoplasmosis are defined in Table 1. western United States. Histoplasmosis syndromes include pulmonary and disseminated disease, the spectrum of which Guideline Scope The scope of this guideline update includes treatment of asymptomatic Histoplasma pulmonary nodules (histoplasmo- mas) and mild or moderate acute pulmonary histoplasmosis. Received 20 March 2025; editorial decision 27 March 2025; published online 16 July 2025 Available evidence for children, adults, and pregnant people aS. R. A. and A. S. contributed equally to this work. was reviewed. For the purposes of this guideline, newborns Memphis, TN 38105 (). and patients with African histoplasmosis or possible ocular his- Clinical Infectious Diseases® 2025;81(9):i27–32 toplasmosis syndrome were excluded. © The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Infectious Diseases This guideline is intended for use by healthcare professionals for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our who care for patients with histoplasmosis, including but not RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information limited to primary care clinicians, infectious diseases physi- please contact . cians,
