Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: histoplasmosis, treatment, pulmonary, itraconazole, patients, diseases, infectious, infectious diseases, acute, guideline, society, guidelines, acute pulmonary, evidence, med


including but not RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information limited to primary care clinicians, infectious diseases physi- please contact . cians, pulmonologists, specialists prescribing biologic response 2025 Infectious Diseases Society of America Clinical Practice Guideline Update on Histoplasmosis • CID 2025:81 (15 October) • i27 Downloaded from by guest on May Table 1. Severity of Acute Pulmonary Histoplasmosis. These definitions The panel’s recommendations are based on evidence derived are offered as guidance but are not intended to be prescriptive. Clinical from systematic literature reviews and adhere to a standardized assessment should drive care decisions. methodology for rating the certainty of evidence and strength of recommendation according to the GRADE approach [9, Severity Definition 10]. Strong recommendations, indicated by “the panel recom- Asymptomatic pulmonary Asymptomatic but with evidence of recent histoplasmosis onset or active infection (based on review of mends,” are made when the recommended course of action recent, prior imaging indicating new or would apply to most people with few exceptions. Conditional progressive radiographic abnormality, detection of urine or serum Histoplasma recommendations, indicated by “the panel suggests,” are antigen, detection of Histoplasma antibodies made when the suggested course of action would apply to the by complement fixation with high titer majority of people with many exceptions and shared decision (≥1:32) or rising titer on sequential testing, or presence of H-band by immunodiffusion) making is important. Details of the systematic review and Mild acute pulmonary Mild symptoms (eg, cough, fever, dyspnea, guideline development processes are available in the supple- histoplasmosis chest discomfort) that do not interfere with normal activities mentary materials for each article. Moderate acute pulmonary Symptoms (eg, cough, fever, dyspnea, chest histoplasmosis discomfort) significant enough to interfere with normal activities; may require low-flow RESULTS: RECOMMENDATIONS AND REMARKS oxygen supplementation or hospitalization Severe acute pulmonary Respiratory failure requiring substantial In patients with asymptomatic, previously untreated Histoplasma histoplasmosis supplemental oxygen; significant weight pulmonary nodules (histoplasmomas), for which patients should loss and/or malaise; requires hospitalization antifungal treatment be initiated? and may require intensive care Recommendation: In adults and children with asymptomatic noncalcified pulmonary nodules related to histoplasmosis with no evidence of other active sites, or asymptomatic patients with modifiers and other immunosuppressive agents, and cardio- known untreated prior infection, the panel suggests against rou- thoracic surgeons. tinely providing treatment for histoplasmosis to prevent reactiva- tion (conditional recommendation, very low certainty of Publication Scope
