Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: histoplasmosis, treatment, pulmonary, itraconazole, patients, diseases, infectious, infectious diseases, acute, guideline, society, guidelines, acute pulmonary, evidence, med


and cardio- known untreated prior infection, the panel suggests against rou- thoracic surgeons. tinely providing treatment for histoplasmosis to prevent reactiva- tion (conditional recommendation, very low certainty of Publication Scope evidence). The last iteration of the guideline was published in Remarks: 2007 . The goals of this guideline update were to incorporate • In patients with elevated risk for disseminated/severe histo- contemporary evidence and apply the GRADE (Grading of plasmosis (especially those with immunocompromising con- Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation) ditions that confer high and moderate risk according to approach for the evidence appraisal process. Two articles and their corresponding supplementary materials comprise this consider treatment. guideline update . Additional sections of this guideline up- • Patients with only calcified pulmonary nodules should not be date are planned and include: alternative treatment options for treated. patients who fail to improve, absorb, or are unable to tolerate • Treatment of pregnant individuals should only be considered first-line therapy; antifungal treatment for patients with severe/ after carefully weighing the potential benefits versus harms of disseminated acute pulmonary histoplasmosis and chronic cavi- treatment, ideally in consultation with a maternal fetal med- tary pulmonary histoplasmosis; and whether and in what circum- stances to add steroids and/or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory cases are rare, complex, and highly variable. If treatment is drugs to an antifungal treatment regimen. necessary, azoles should be avoided in the first trimester Several existing guidelines from other organizations related when possible and liposomal amphotericin B used instead. to this topic were reviewed during the guideline development process [4–8]. In patients presenting with mild or moderate acute pulmonary histoplasmosis, should antifungal treatment be given for resolution of METHODS symptoms? The panel included clinicians with expertise in infectious diseas- Recommendation: In immunocompetent adults and children es, pediatric infectious diseases, pulmonology, maternal-fetal presenting with mild acute pulmonary histoplasmosis, the pan- medicine, and pharmacology. Selected reviewers included clini- el suggests against routinely providing antifungal treatment cians with expertise in infectious diseases and pediatric infec- (conditional recommendation, very low certainty of evidence). tious diseases. Relevant recommendations have been reviewed Remarks: and endorsed by the Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society, the • Treatment may be considered in immunocompetent patients Society of Infectious Diseases Pharmacists, and the Mycoses with mild acute pulmonary histoplasmosis and prolonged Study Group Education and Research Consortium. duration of illness, progression of pulmonary infiltrates, or i28 • CID 2025:81 (15 October) • Arnold et al Downloaded from
