Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: histoplasmosis, treatment, pulmonary, itraconazole, patients, diseases, infectious, infectious diseases, acute, guideline, society, guidelines, acute pulmonary, evidence, med


is defined as CD4+ T lymphocyte [CD4+] percentage <15%, and in individuals ≥6 y, CD4+ percentage <15% and CD4+ >200 lymphocytes/mm3 . cCarefully consider drug-drug interactions (eg, tacrolimus for graft-vs-host disease prophylaxis). dThere are a variety of biologic agents with varying levels of immunosuppression. Serious infections have happened in patients receiving biologic response modifiers, including tuberculosis and disseminated infections caused by viruses, fungi, or bacteria. Frequently reported biologics associated with disseminated/severe histoplasmosis include: Tumor necrosis factor-alpha inhibitors (TNF-alpha inhibitors [eg, infliximab, etanercept, adalimumab]); IL-12/IL-23 blockade (ustekinumab, risankizumab, guselkumab). enlarging hilar or mediastinal adenopathy. In a large out- whether to treat. Potential financial burden should be dis- break study, >75% of persons affected were ill for 1 week cussed with the patient as well. or less, and all recovered completely within 2 months without • The goals of treatment are to decrease the duration of illness treatment . and mitigate risk of dissemination, though treatment effec- tiveness in this patient population is unknown. Recommendation: In immunocompetent adults and chil- • When treatment is indicated, itraconazole is preferred . dren presenting with moderate acute pulmonary histoplasmo- • Initial dosing for original itraconazole capsules or oral solu- sis, the panel suggests either antifungal treatment or no tion: (adults, 200 mg three times daily for 3 days and then antifungal treatment, considering the severity and duration of 200 mg twice daily for 6–12 weeks; children: 5 mg/kg/dose signs/symptoms, as well as potential harms of antifungal treat- [up to a maximum of 200 mg/dose] three times daily for 3 ment (conditional recommendation, very low certainty of days and then 5 mg/kg/dose twice daily [not to exceed evidence). 400 mg daily] for 6–12 weeks). Super-Bioavailable (SUBA) Remarks: itraconazole (only available as capsules and currently ap- • Moderate acute pulmonary histoplasmosis includes a hetero- proved for use in adults): 130 mg three times daily for 3 geneous group of patients. Prolonged duration of illness, days, then 130 mg twice daily for 6–12 weeks. In consultation worsening symptoms, progression of pulmonary infiltrates, with a pharmacist, similar dosing for SUBA itraconazole enlarging hilar or mediastinal adenopathy, and more severe based on the child’s weight may be considered in children signs or symptoms favor treatment. old enough to swallow capsules (as off-label use). For addi- • Consider drug-drug interactions and other potential harms tional information on the various itraconazole formulations, versus benefits of antifungal treatment when deciding see the Implementation
