Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: histoplasmosis, treatment, pulmonary, itraconazole, patients, diseases, infectious, infectious diseases, acute, guideline, society, guidelines, acute pulmonary, evidence, med


(as off-label use). For addi- • Consider drug-drug interactions and other potential harms tional information on the various itraconazole formulations, versus benefits of antifungal treatment when deciding see the Implementation Considerations section. 2025 Infectious Diseases Society of America Clinical Practice Guideline Update on Histoplasmosis • CID 2025:81 (15 October) • i29 Downloaded from by guest on May • Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) should be performed approximately 20% of patients required dose adjustments for patients receiving itraconazole [4–7]. In recent studies, due to sub- or super-therapeutic levels of itraconazole, and approximately 20% of patients required dose adjustments approximately 28% experienced side effects . A goal due to sub- or super-therapeutic levels of itraconazole, and trough concentration of itraconazole component of approximately 28% of patients experienced side effects [30, >1 mg/L and <3–4 mg/L (as measured by chromatographic 31]. A goal trough concentration of itraconazole component assay) is associated with efficacy and a lower risk of toxicity >1 mg/L and <3–4 mg/L (as measured by chromatographic [4–7, 30, 32–34]. Due to the long half-life of itraconazole, assay) is associated with efficacy and a lower risk of toxicity non-trough/random levels of itraconazole can also be used [4–7, 30, 32–34]. Due to the long half-life of itraconazole, to monitor serum concentrations. Hydroxy-itraconazole is non-trough/random levels of itraconazole can also be used an active metabolite; however, a cutoff for combined hy- to monitor serum concentrations. Hydroxy-itraconazole is droxy-itraconazole and itraconazole levels has not been es- an active metabolite; however, a cutoff for combined hy- tablished . Patients with a combined hydroxy- droxy-itraconazole and itraconazole levels has not been es- itraconazole and itraconazole level >2 mg/L may respond tablished . Patients with a combined hydroxy- similarly to patients with itraconazole levels >1 mg/L . itraconazole and itraconazole level >2 mg/L may respond • Treatment of pregnant individuals should only be considered similarly to patients with itraconazole levels >1 mg/L . after carefully weighing the potential benefits versus harms of • Treatment of pregnant individuals should only be considered treatment, ideally in consultation with a maternal fetal med- treatment, ideally in consultation with a maternal fetal cases are rare, complex, and highly variable. If treatment is these cases are rare, complex, and highly variable. If treat- when possible and liposomal amphotericin B used instead. ment is necessary, azoles should be avoided in the first tri- mester when possible and liposomal amphotericin B used RESEARCH NEEDS instead. Additional
