Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: histoplasmosis, treatment, pulmonary, itraconazole, patients, diseases, infectious, infectious diseases, acute, guideline, society, guidelines, acute pulmonary, evidence, med


possible and liposomal amphotericin B used instead. ment is necessary, azoles should be avoided in the first tri- mester when possible and liposomal amphotericin B used RESEARCH NEEDS instead. Additional studies are needed on the incidence and timing of reactivation with and without antifungal treatment in various Recommendation: In immunocompromised adults and populations, especially in pregnant persons and children. children presenting with mild or moderate acute pulmonary Studies evaluating outcomes of treatment versus no treatment histoplasmosis who are at moderate to high risk of progression in patients with asymptomatic pulmonary nodules, mild acute to disseminated disease, the panel suggests antifungal treat- pulmonary histoplasmosis, and moderate acute pulmonary his- ment (conditional recommendation, very low certainty of toplasmosis would also be helpful. evidence). Remarks: Notes • Patients with asymptomatic or mild acute pulmonary histo- Acknowledgments. The panel acknowledges the work of the previous plasmosis and a lesser degree of immunocompromise (see panel, under the leadership of L. Joseph Wheat, for their work on the pre- Table 2) may not warrant treatment. vious iteration of this larger guideline, and the contributions of Elizabeth • When treatment is indicated, itraconazole is preferred . Kiscaden and Mary Beth McAteer, medical librarians, for the creation and execution of question-specific literature searches. Rebecca Goldwater • Initial dosing for original itraconazole capsules or oral solu- and Imani Amponsah provided project coordination. The panel also ac- tion: (adults, 200 mg three times daily for 3 days and then knowledges the following organizations and selected external reviewers 200 mg twice daily for 6–12 weeks; children: 5 mg/kg/dose for their review of the draft manuscript: the Pediatric Infectious Diseases [up to a maximum of 200 mg/dose] three times daily for 3 Society and the Society of Infectious Diseases Pharmacists; Drs. David Andes, John Christenson, and Marisa Miceli; and Drs. Robin Colgrove days and then 5 mg/kg/dose twice daily [not to exceed and Clinton White on behalf of the Standards & Practice Guidelines 400 mg daily] for 6–12 weeks). SUBA itraconazole (only Subcommittee. available as capsules and currently approved for use in S. R. A. and A. S. are chair and vice-chair, respectively, of the expert adults): 130 mg three times daily for 3 days, then 130 mg tions addressed in this article. K. R. S. and N. P. W. led the development of twice daily for 6–12 weeks. In consultation with a pharma- remarks on therapeutic drug monitoring for itraconazole. Remaining
