Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: histoplasmosis, treatment, pulmonary, itraconazole, patients, diseases, infectious, infectious diseases, acute, guideline, society, guidelines, acute pulmonary, evidence, med


article. K. R. S. and N. P. W. led the development of twice daily for 6–12 weeks. In consultation with a pharma- remarks on therapeutic drug monitoring for itraconazole. Remaining pan- cist, similar dosing for SUBA itraconazole based on the elists assisted with the conception and design of the analysis, interpretation of data, drafting and revising the recommendations and manuscript, child’s weight may be considered in children old enough to and final approval of the recommendations and manuscript to be swallow capsules (as off-label use). For additional informa- published. J. L., methodologist, was responsible for general project manage- tion on the various itraconazole formulations, see the ment, synthesizing and presenting the data, and leading the panel accord- Implementation Considerations section. ing to the GRADE process. Disclaimer. It is important to recognize that guidelines cannot always • Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) should be performed account for individual variation among patients. They are assessments of i30 • CID 2025:81 (15 October) • Arnold et al Downloaded from by guest on May idence (new evidence may emerge between the time information is drafted Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) of antifungal agents: guidelines from the and when it is published or read); should not be considered inclusive of all British Society for Medical Mycology. J Antimicrob Chemother 2014; 69: proper methods of care or as a statement of the standard of care; do not 1162–76. mandate any course of medical care; and are not intended to supplant cli- 5. Chau MM, Daveson K, Alffenaar J-WC, et al. Consensus guidelines for optimiz- nician judgment with respect to particular patients or situations. Whether ing antifungal drug delivery and monitoring to avoid toxicity and improve out- comes in patients with haematological malignancy and haemopoietic stem cell to follow guidelines and to what extent is voluntary, with the ultimate de- transplant recipients, 2021. Intern Med J 2021; 51 Suppl 7:37–66. termination regarding their application to be made by the clinician in the 6. Laverdiere M, Bow EJ, Rotstein C, et al. Therapeutic drug monitoring for tria- light of each patient’s individual circumstances. While IDSA makes every zoles: a needs assessment review and recommendations from a Canadian perspec- effort to present accurate, complete, and reliable information, these guide- tive. Can J Infect Dis Med Microbiol 2014; 25:327–43. lines are presented “as is” without any warranty, either express or implied. 7. McCreary EK, Davis MR, Narayanan N, et al. Utility of
