Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: histoplasmosis, treatment, pulmonary, itraconazole, patients, diseases, infectious, infectious diseases, acute, guideline, society, guidelines, acute pulmonary, evidence, med


J Infect Dis Med Microbiol 2014; 25:327–43. lines are presented “as is” without any warranty, either express or implied. 7. McCreary EK, Davis MR, Narayanan N, et al. Utility of triazole antifungal thera- IDSA (and its officers, directors, members, employees, and agents) assume peutic drug monitoring: insights from the Society of Infectious Diseases no responsibility for any loss, damage, or claim with respect to any liabil- Pharmacists: endorsed by the Mycoses Study Group Education and Research ities, including direct, special, indirect, or consequential damages, incurred Consortium. Pharmacotherapy 2023; 43:1043–50. in connection with these guidelines or reliance on the information 8. Panel on Guidelines for the Prevention and Treatment of Opportunistic presented. Infections in Adults and Adolescents with HIV. Guidelines for the prevention The guidelines represent the proprietary and copyrighted property of and treatment of opportunistic infections in adults and adolescents with HIV. distributed, or transmitted in any form or by any means, including photo- opportunistic-infection/whats-new-guidelines. Accessed 16 June 2024. copying, recording, or other electronic or mechanical methods, without the 9. Guyatt GH, Oxman AD, Vist GE, et al. GRADE: an emerging consensus on rating prior written permission of IDSA. Permission is granted to physicians and quality of evidence and strength of recommendations. BMJ 2008; 336:924–6. 10. Infectious Diseases Society of America. IDSA handbook on clinical practice healthcare providers solely to copy and use the guidelines in their profes- guideline development. Available at: sional practices and clinical decision making. No license or permission is guideline/clinical-practice-guidelines-development-training-and-resources/. granted to any person or entity, and prior written authorization by IDSA Accessed 3 January 2024. is required to sell, distribute, or modify the guidelines, or to make derivative 11. Kroger A, Bahta L, Long S, et al. General best practice guidelines for immuniza- works of or incorporate the guidelines into any product, including, but not tion: altered immunocompetence. Available at: Except for the permission granted above, any person or entity desiring to 2024. use the guidelines in any way must contact IDSA for approval in accor- 12. Antinori S, Magni C, Nebuloni M, et al. Histoplasmosis among human immuno- dance with the terms and conditions of third-party use, in particular any deficiency virus-infected people in Europe: report of 4 cases and review of the lit- use of the guidelines in any software product. erature. Medicine 2006; 85:22–36. Financial support. This work was supported by the Infectious Diseases 13. Anderson AM, Mehta AK, Wang YF, et
