Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: histoplasmosis, treatment, pulmonary, itraconazole, patients, diseases, infectious, infectious diseases, acute, guideline, society, guidelines, acute pulmonary, evidence, med


use of the guidelines in any software product. erature. Medicine 2006; 85:22–36. Financial support. This work was supported by the Infectious Diseases 13. Anderson AM, Mehta AK, Wang YF, et al. HIV-associated histoplasmosis in a Society of America. nonendemic area of the United States during the HAART era: role of migration Potential conflicts of interest. Evaluation of relationships as potential from endemic areas and lack of antiretroviral therapy. J Int Assoc Physicians conflicts of interest (COIs) is determined by a review process. The assessment AIDS Care 2010; 9:296–300. 14. Ashbee HR, Evans EGV, Viviani MA, et al. Histoplasmosis in Europe: report on of disclosed relationships for possible COIs is based on the relative weight of an epidemiological survey from the European Confederation of Medical the financial relationship (ie, monetary amount) and the relevance of the Mycology Working Group. Med Mycol 2008; 46:57–65. relationship (ie, the degree to which an association might reasonably be in- 15. Bourgeois N, Douard-Enault C, Reynes J, et al. Seven imported histoplasmosis terpreted by an independent observer as related to the topic or recommen- cases due to Histoplasma capsulatum var. capsulatum: from few weeks to more dation of consideration). The following panelists have scientific advisory/ than three decades asymptomatic period. J Mycol Med 2011; 21:19–23. consultant roles related to the topic (ie, manageable conflicts of interest): 16. Buitrago MJ, Bernal-Martinez L, Castelli MV, et al. Histoplasmosis and paracoc- A. S. (vice-chair) with Mayne and Scynexis, C. A. K. with Cidara cidioidomycosis in a non-endemic area: a review of cases and diagnosis. J Travel Therapeutics (concluded) and Laboratoires SMB (concluded), K. R. S. with Med 2011; 18:26–33. Cidara Therapeutics (concluded), and N. P. W. with F2G (concluded). 17. Choi J, Nikoomanesh K, Uppal J, Wang S. Progressive disseminated histoplasmo- C. A. K. is editor-in-chief for UpToDate’s Infectious Diseases sections, and sis with concomitant disseminated nontuberculous mycobacterial infection in a J. W. B. is an editor for UpToDate’s Fungal Infections sections. The following patient with AIDS from a nonendemic region (California). BMC Pulm Med panelists have research relationships related to the topic: A. S. (vice-chair) 2019; 19:46. with Astellas; P. P. with Mayne; R. A. M. with Scynexis and F2G; and 18. Gandhi V, Ulyanovskiy P, Epelbaum O. Update on the spectrum of histoplasmo- No disclosures were reported for all other authors (the majority of panelists), contemporary case series. Respir Med Case Rep 2015; 16:60–4. 19. Peigne V,
