Chapter 37: Prevention of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, study, insulin, trial, c-peptide, group, cell, subjects, studies, prevention, beta, year, years


37–1 CHAPTER 37 PREVENTION OF TYPE 1 DIABETES Jay S. Skyler, MD, MACP, Jeffrey P. Krischer, PhD, Dorothy J. Becker, MD, MBBCh, and Marian Rewers, MD, PhD Dr. Jay S. Skyler is Professor of Medicine at the Diabetes Research Institute, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, University of Miami, Miami, FL. Dr. Jeffrey P. Krischer is Professor at the University of South Florida College of Medicine, and Director of the USF Diabetes Center and USF Health Informatics Institute, Tampa, FL. Dr. Dorothy J. Becker is Professor of Pediatrics in the Division of Endocrinology and Diabetes, Children’s Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC, Pittsburgh, PA. Dr. Marian Rewers is Professor of Pediatrics and Medicine at the Barbara Davis Center for Childhood Diabetes, University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, CO. Received in final form December 3, 2016. SUMMARY Type 1 diabetes is a progressive disease. There is a genetic predisposition to type 1 diabetes, particularly conferred by alleles present within the major histocompatibility complex (HLA region) on the short arm of chromosome six. It is thought that in susceptible indi­ viduals, an environmental trigger initiates an immune response. Immune infiltration into pancreatic islets results in beta cell damage, impairment of beta cell function, and potential destruction of beta cells. One would expect that if type 1 diabetes is an immunologi­ cally mediated disease, then immune intervention should alter the natural history of the disease and potentially abrogate the clinical syndrome. Intervention trials have been conducted at a number of stages of the disease process. Primary prevention trials have been conducted in individuals with a genetic predisposition who have not yet developed immunologic markers (“Pre-Stage 1”). Secondary prevention trials have been conducted in individuals with two or more diabetes-related autoantibodies, either during Stage 1 of type 1 diabetes (normal metabolic function) or Stage 2 of type 1 diabetes (abnormal metabolic function). Intervention trials, also called tertiary prevention trials, have been conducted in individuals with Stage 3 of type 1 diabetes (clinical hyperglycemia), usually shortly after clinical onset of disease. This chapter provides brief summaries of the randomized controlled clinical trials that have been conducted and also mentions some non-randomized pilot studies. Unfortunately, none of the primary or secondary prevention trials have clearly arrested the disease process. Some tertiary intervention trials have demonstrated improved beta cell function, at least for some period of time, after which beta cell function has generally declined in
