Chapter 37: Prevention of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, study, insulin, trial, c-peptide, group, cell, subjects, studies, prevention, beta, year, years


arrested the disease process. Some tertiary intervention trials have demonstrated improved beta cell function, at least for some period of time, after which beta cell function has generally declined in parallel to that in the respective control group. This could be a consequence of most studies focusing on only a single immunologic mechanism; whereas, what may be required are studies that deal with multiple immunologic mechanisms, including attempting to improve regulatory immunity, while also addressing beta cell function by including interventions that improve beta cell health. INTRODUCTION Type 1 diabetes is a slowly progressive disease, with a genetic predisposition, where a putative environmental trigger initiates an immune response that results in pancreatic islet beta cell damage, impairment of beta cell function, and destruction of beta cells (1,2,3). Although the initial characterization suggested a slow, linear progression of disease (Figure 37.1) (1), more recent thought is that there is more variability in the progression, perhaps with waxing and waning or with intermittent immune attacks (3). Moreover, the disease may be a consequence of imbalance between the immune system and the ability of the pancreatic beta cell to withstand attack (4). A genetic basis for the disease in associa­ tion with human leukocyte antigen (HLA) was first described in the early 1970s (5). Subsequently, that relationship has been extensively characterized (6,7,8,9), with both Class II (9,10) and Class I HLA (11) contributing to genetic susceptibility, and even the identification of protective HLA haplotypes (12). Although multiple other potential genes have been iden­ tified as possible contributors to type 1 diabetes (13,14), the HLA region remains the major contributor to genetic predis­ position (15). Indeed, based on a study of the general population of Denver newborns, children born with the high- risk genotype HLA-DR3/4-DQ8 comprise almost 50% of children who develop anti-islet autoimmunity by age 5 years (16). In addition, the cumulative burden of non-major histocompatibility complex (MHC) susceptibility genes may play a role in determining the rate of disease progres­ sion. Genetic factors associated with type 1 diabetes are described in detail in Chapter 12 Genetics of Type 1 Diabetes. In genetically susceptible individuals, the disease process eventuating in type 1 diabetes likely is initiated by an environ­ mental trigger (17,18). It is unclear whether such a trigger is an infectious agent, such as an enterovirus, a dietary factor, alteration of the intestinal microbiome, or some other factor. Moreover, the associ­ ation
