Chapter 37: Prevention of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, study, insulin, trial, c-peptide, group, cell, subjects, studies, prevention, beta, year, years


is unclear whether such a trigger is an infectious agent, such as an enterovirus, a dietary factor, alteration of the intestinal microbiome, or some other factor. Moreover, the associ­ ation between environmental factors and 37–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition the course of the disease is complicated by observations that not only initiation of the disease process, but also the rate of progression to clinical onset, may be affected by environmental determinants and that metabolic decompensation at disease onset may be a consequence of another unrelated or nonspecific envi­ ronmental event. Ongoing observational cohort studies, such as The Environmental Determinants of Diabetes in the Young (TEDDY) study (19,20), are designed to ascertain environmental determinants that may trigger islet autoimmunity and either speed up or slow down the progression to clinical onset in subjects with persistent islet autoimmunity. Please see Chapter 11 Risk Factors for Type 1 Diabetes for more discussion of putative environmental trig­ gers of type 1 diabetes. The type 1 diabetes immune response is initiated by antigen presentation and then mediated by T lymphocytes (21,22), resulting in a lymphocytic inflammatory response in pancreatic islets that has been called insulitis (23). It appears to involve an autoreactive response by both effector CD4 (24) and cytotoxic CD8 (25) T lymphocytes. These have the capacity to mediate damage both via cytokine effects (possibly involving such cytokines as interleukin-1 [IL-1] and tumor necrosis factor alpha [TNF-α]) or direct cytotoxic T lymphocyte-mediated lysis. This initial immune response, with continued lysis, creates the potential of a vicious cycle of inflammation, which also may engender secondary and tertiary immune responses that contribute to the impairment of beta cell function and potential destruction of beta cells (3,4,21). This insidious process evolves over a variable amount of time— even many years in some individuals. The eventual overt manifestation of clinical symptoms becomes apparent only when most beta cells have lost function and many may have been destroyed. The initial laboratory manifestation of this beta cell injury is seroconversion, i.e., the appearance of diabetes-related autoantibodies. These antibodies are generally thought not to mediate beta cell injury but rather to be markers of such injury. Diabetes-related autoantibodies were first described in the early 1970s, when islet cell antibodies (ICA) were identified by immunofluorescence (26). Subsequently, additional antibodies were identified with specific antigen targets, including insulin autoantibodies (IAA), antibodies to glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), antibodies to an aborted tyrosine phosphatase,
