Chapter 37: Prevention of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, study, insulin, trial, c-peptide, group, cell, subjects, studies, prevention, beta, year, years


also called Stage 3 (32). A risk score, taking into account several of these metabolic changes, has been developed (38) and validated (39). After the clinical onset of type 1 diabetes, there is further progressive decline of beta cell function (40). One would expect that if type 1 diabetes is an immunologically mediated disease, then immune intervention should alter the natural history of the disease and potentially abrogate the clinical syndrome. This has certainly been the case in animal models of type 1 diabetes (41,42,43). The first reported attempt at immune intervention in type 1 diabetes was in the late 1970s in a handful of subjects (44). In the 1980s, a number of small trials were conducted with a variety of immuno­ logic agents (45,46). Since then, initially stimulated by a provocative pilot study with cyclosporine (47), a large number of studies have been conducted, mostly in recent-onset type 1 diabetes in an attempt to interdict the disease process and preserve beta cell function (48,49). A few studies have been conducted prior to any evidence of autoimmunity (primary prevention) or after the develop­ ment of diabetes-related autoantibodies (secondary prevention) (50). The goal of such primary and secondary interventions is to arrest the immune process and, thus, prevent or delay clinical disease. Table 37.1 lists both completed and ongoing primary and secondary preven­ tion trials. Table 37.2 lists a large number of contemporary intervention trials in subjects with clinical Stage 3 type 1 diabetes, mostly in recent-onset subjects, but some in established disease. Most studies listed are randomized controlled clinical trials, although a few pilot studies of significance are included. PRIMARY PREVENTION TRIALS Primary prevention trials (Table 37.1) have been conducted in birth cohorts identified by genetic screening, with the interventions initiated at a time when there are neither signs of autoimmunity nor metabolic impairment. Since there is uncertainty as to whether those infants identified by genetic screening will progress to type 1 diabetes, any inter­ ventions tested must be extremely safe. As a consequence, virtually all primary prevention trials to date have involved dietary interventions directed at putative environmental triggers of type 1 diabetes (51,52,53,54,55,56). A meta-analysis had demonstrated a correlation between onset of type 1 diabetes and either early introduction of cow’s milk formula or a short period of breastfeeding (57). Consequently, two studies evaluated whether at the time of weaning, replacement of breast milk with a formula based
