Chapter 37: Prevention of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, study, insulin, trial, c-peptide, group, cell, subjects, studies, prevention, beta, year, years


of type 1 diabetes † † TrialNet Teplizumab (73) Anti CD3 - Teplizumab 71 1:1 8–45 Diagnosis of type 1 diabetes † † TrialNet Abatacept (74) Abatacept Enrolling – 132 of 206* 1:1 6–45 Diagnosis of type 1 diabetes † † 25-OH-D, 25-hydroxyvitamin D; CI, confidence interval; DENIS, German (Deutsch) Nicotinamide Diabetes Intervention Study; DIAPREV-IT, Diabetes Prevention - Immune Tolerance study; DIPP, Diabetes Prediction and Prevention Study; DPT-1, Diabetes Prevention Trial-Type 1; ENDIT, European Nicotinamide Diabetes Intervention Trial; FINDIA, Finnish Dietary Intervention Trial for the Prevention of Type 1 Diabetes; INIT, Intranasal Insulin Trial; NA, not applicable; NIP, Nutritional Intervention to Prevent Type 1 Diabetes; NS, nonsignificant; OR, odds ratio; Pre-POINT, Primary Oral Insulin Therapy Study; TRIGR, Trial to Reduce the Incidence of Diabetes in the Genetically at Risk. * As of January 2017 † Data are not available as of January 2017. SOURCE: References are listed within the table. Prevention of Type 1 Diabetes 37–5 The BABYDIET study, a randomized controlled trial, evaluated whether delayed exposure to gluten reduces the risk of diabetes autoimmunity (54). The rationale for the study was based on the investi­ gators’ earlier observation of increased risk of islet autoimmunity in children who are exposed to gluten early in life (58). The trial randomized 150 infants with a first-degree relative with type 1 diabetes and an HLA genotype consistent with type 1 diabetes risk. They were assigned either to first gluten exposure at age 6 months (control group) or at age 12 months (late-exposure group) and were followed every 3 months until age 3 years and yearly thereafter. BABYDIET found that delaying gluten exposure until the age of 12 months is safe but does not substan­ tially reduce the risk for islet autoimmunity (3-year risk: 12% vs. 13%, p=0.6) (54). The TrialNet Nutritional Intervention to Prevent (NIP) Type 1 Diabetes Pilot Trial assessed the feasibility of implementing a study to determine the effect of nutritional supplements with the omega-3 fatty acid docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), which has anti-inflammatory effects, during the last trimester of pregnancy and the first few years of life (55). NIP found that supple­ mentation of infant diets with DHA was safe and resulted in an increased level of DHA in infant erythrocytes but did not find consistent changes in inflammatory cytokines (55). Based on putative observations that vitamin D may be protective against type 1 diabetes, a group of Canadian investi­ gators
