Chapter 37: Prevention of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, study, insulin, trial, c-peptide, group, cell, subjects, studies, prevention, beta, year, years


but did not find consistent changes in inflammatory cytokines (55). Based on putative observations that vitamin D may be protective against type 1 diabetes, a group of Canadian investi­ gators showed in a small pilot study that it was possible to recruit babies from the general population for identification of HLA-associated risk status followed by enrollment by age 1 month to a random­ ized controlled prevention trial of vitamin D supplementation (56). Therefore, they have proposed a nationwide study (in Canada) to evaluate the hypothesis that vitamin D supplementation can decrease the risk of islet autoimmunity and type 1 diabetes. The Primary Oral Insulin Therapy (Pre-POINT) study was a pilot safety study of the use of oral insulin in children age 2–7 years at risk of developing type 1 diabetes (59). The study found that daily oral administration of 67.5 mg insulin is safe and can actively engage the immune system with features of immune regulation in children who are genetically at risk of developing type 1 diabetes. Consequently, a larger randomized controlled trial has been initiated (60). It would seem desirable to conduct more studies in those with genetic predispo­ sition, particularly if a safe vaccine-type approach can be studied. This might involve an antigen-based vaccine (such as that used in the Pre-POINT study) or a vaccine directed against potential viral triggers of disease. In order to conduct such trials, it will be necessary to screen various populations at or shortly after birth, looking for high-risk genetic predisposition. Theoretically, if such trials resulted in prevention of type 1 diabetes, this would change public health practice, leading to routine screening at birth for high genetic risk of type 1 diabetes. Further, if the intervention were totally safe, it could ultimately be included in routine neonatal or infant vaccination programs. SECONDARY PREVENTION TRIALS Secondary prevention trials (Table 37.1) are those conducted in individuals with Stage 1 (autoantibodies alone) or Stage 2 type 1 diabetes (autoantibodies and metabolic dysfunction) (Figure 37.2) (32). Most of these studies have been conducted in individuals, generally first- or second-degree relatives of people with type 1 diabetes, who initially have been identified by screening for diabetes-asso­ ciated autoantibodies. Because not all of those with antibodies will progress to type 1 diabetes, selection of interventions to be tested has been done cautiously. Indeed, all completed secondary prevention studies have used either nicotinamide (a water soluble vitamin [B6] derived
