Chapter 37: Prevention of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, study, insulin, trial, c-peptide, group, cell, subjects, studies, prevention, beta, year, years


ceased (66). Because the subgroup with a potential beneficial effect was identified in a post hoc anal­ ysis, an ongoing trial conducted by Type 1 Diabetes TrialNet is examining oral insulin in subjects similar to those in the subgroup with higher titer IAA (71). The Belgian Diabetes Registry also eval­ uated whether parenteral insulin might delay the development of type 1 diabetes (67). In this study, the experimental group received regular insulin twice daily before the most carbohydrate-rich meals, and the randomized control group was closely observed but did not receive placebo. Fifty subjects were randomized—25 each to treatment and control. Eligible subjects were age 5–40 years, with IA2 antibodies and normal oral glucose toler­ ance, thus meeting the criteria of Stage 1 type 1 diabetes. There was no difference in diabetes-free survival between the two groups (p=0.97), with 5-year progression of 44% in the treated group and 49% in the control group. The DIPP study was conducted in Finland among newborns from the general population (i.e., without relatives with type 1 diabetes) with high-risk HLA-DQB1 susceptibility alleles for type 1 diabetes (68). Cord blood samples from 116,720 consecutively born infants were screened, which identified 17,397 with high or moderate genetic risk, of whom 10,577 participated in a prospective study with serial follow-up for presence of diabetes autoantibodies. The intervention study required at least two antibodies in two consecutive samples (Stage 1 type 1 diabetes); of 328 subjects who met that criteria, 224 were randomized to receive either intranasal insulin or placebo. DIPP also screened siblings of those infants and followed those siblings who also had increased genetic risk; of 52 siblings who met enrollment criteria, 40 were randomized to receive intranasal insulin or placebo. During follow-up, within each of the cohorts (infants and siblings), the rate of progression to type 1 diabetes was the same in the intranasal insulin group and the placebo group (68). Another study, conducted in Australia, the Intranasal Insulin Trial (INIT 1), used a double-blind crossover design to eval­ uate safety of intranasal insulin (69). The study included 38 subjects at risk of type 1 diabetes, who were treated with either intranasal insulin or placebo, daily for 10 days and then 2 days per week for 6 months, after which they were crossed over to the other treatment. There was no acceleration of onset of type 1 diabetes nor were there other adverse outcomes. Intranasal
