Chapter 37: Prevention of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, study, insulin, trial, c-peptide, group, cell, subjects, studies, prevention, beta, year, years


for 6 months, after which they were crossed over to the other treatment. There was no acceleration of onset of type 1 diabetes nor were there other adverse outcomes. Intranasal insulin was associated with an increase in antibody and a decrease in T cell responses to insulin. Since there were no safety issues, the ongoing Intranasal Insulin Trial-II (INIT II), under the auspices of the Diabetes Vaccine Development Centre (DVDC) in Australia, is evaluating whether intranasal insulin can delay or prevent the onset of type 1 diabetes (70). OTHER ONGOING SECONDARY PREVENTION TRIALS As noted in Table 37.1, other ongoing secondary prevention trials include the Diabetes Prevention - Immune Tolerance study (DIAPREV-IT) with a GAD vaccine (72) and Type 1 Diabetes TrialNet studies using teplizumab (73) and abatacept (74). The enrollment criteria for three ongoing TrialNet studies are different. Eligibility for the TrialNet oral insulin study (71) requires at least two antibodies, one of which is IAA, intact first phase insulin response to intravenous glucose, and normal glucose tolerance. Eligibility for the TrialNet abatacept study (74) requires at least two antibodies, one of which is not IAA, and normal glucose tolerance. Eligibility for the TrialNet teplizumab study (73) requires at least one antibody and dysglycemia during an oral glucose tolerance test. Prevention of Type 1 Diabetes 37–7 SCREENING AND ENROLLMENT FOR SECONDARY PREVENTION TRIALS Secondary prevention trials involve screening of relatives of people with type 1 diabetes and enrollment of those with early markers of disease, either autoantibodies alone (Stage 1) or autoantibodies and metabolic dysfunction (Stage 2). In cross-sectional screening of relatives for autoantibodies in DPT-1 and TrialNet, <5% of relatives are found to have autoantibodies. Although this rate is tenfold to twentyfold higher than would be seen in the general population of the United States, it still means that to enroll secondary prevention trials, large numbers of subjects need to be screened. For example, DPT-1 screened over 100,000 relatives to enroll a total of 711 subjects in the two arms of that study (parenteral insulin and oral insulin). TERTIARY PREVENTION TRIALS Tertiary prevention trials (Table 37.2) have been conducted in subjects with Stage 3 clinical type 1 diabetes (i.e., classic symptomatic type 1 diabetes requiring insulin therapy) (Figure 37.2) (32), mostly recent onset, but some in established disease. As noted, there were many early pilot trials with a variety of immune inter­ ventions (45,46) that will not be
