Chapter 37: Prevention of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, study, insulin, trial, c-peptide, group, cell, subjects, studies, prevention, beta, year, years


37.2) (32), mostly recent onset, but some in established disease. As noted, there were many early pilot trials with a variety of immune inter­ ventions (45,46) that will not be discussed here. Rather, this discussion is confined to randomized controlled trials and studies that have either tested contemporary immunologic approaches or ones that offer special insights. EARLY INTERVENTION STUDIES Cyclosporine A pilot study by Stiller et al. (47), reported in 1984, used cyclosporine, an immunosuppressive agent targeting T lymphocytes, which served to stim­ ulate the field, including the conduct of a number of cyclosporine studies (75,76,77,78,79,80). Two large randomized controlled trials compared “remission” rates with cyclosporine versus placebo in subjects with new-onset Stage 3 type 1 diabetes (75,76). In the French study (75), “complete remission” was defined as good metabolic control (aiming at fasting blood glucose <140 mg/dL [<7.77 mmol/L], postprandial blood glucose <200 mg/dL [<11.10 mmol/L], and glycosylated hemo­ globin [A1c] <7.5% [<58 mmol/mol]) in the absence of insulin treatment. “Partial remission” was defined by the same meta­ bolic criteria obtained with <0.25 units/ kg per day of insulin. In the Canadian- European study (76), the same metabolic targets were used, but “remission” also required a stimulated C-peptide level >0.6 nmol/L or a non-insulin requiring (NIR) state. Doses of cyclosporine were progres­ sively lowered and stopped after a period of time if remission was not achieved. Both studies showed a greater proportion of subjects in remission with cyclosporine than with placebo, but the rate of remis­ sion progressively declined in both groups during the 1-year course of the study. Two smaller studies, in Miami (77) and Denver (78), also were conducted. The Miami study showed a slower rate of decline of stimulated C-peptide with cyclosporine compared to placebo. The Denver study showed a slightly greater, but not statisti­ cally significant, difference in the rate of remission in the cyclosporine group than the placebo group. Meanwhile, buoyed by two randomized controlled trials showing the beneficial effects of cyclosporine, a French team initiated a study of cyclospo­ rine in which all eligible subjects received the drug (79). In that study, 27 of 40 subjects (67.5%), all of whom were chil­ dren, achieved remission. Enrollment was expanded, and subjects were followed for a protracted period of time, during which subjects lost their remission in spite of continued cyclosporine therapy (80). This lack of long-term benefit, coupled with the then-emerging recognition of cyclosporine
