Chapter 37: Prevention of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, study, insulin, trial, c-peptide, group, cell, subjects, studies, prevention, beta, year, years


a protracted period of time, during which subjects lost their remission in spite of continued cyclosporine therapy (80). This lack of long-term benefit, coupled with the then-emerging recognition of cyclosporine side effects (particularly renal disease), led to virtual abandonment of this therapy in type 1 diabetes. Azathioprine In the same era, the mid-1980s, several studies were conducted with azathioprine, an immunomodulatory agent, in recent- onset Stage 3 type 1 diabetes (81,82,83). One study initiated therapy with a 10-week course of corticosteroids followed by 1 year of treatment with azathioprine and found better beta cell function at 1 year, as measured by peak C-peptide/ glucose ratio, than in the randomized but untreated control group (81). Another, nonrandomized study gave alternate patients azathioprine and found that most azathioprine subjects achieved “remission,” whereas only one comparison subject did (82). A third azathioprine study was a double-masked placebo-controlled study that enrolled 49 people age 2–20 years with newly diagnosed type 1 diabetes (83). This study found nearly equal rates of remission in both groups. Given the nonrandomized nature of the other studies and the side effects of azathio­ prine, further studies with azathioprine were not pursued. Linomide The immunomodulatory agent linomide (quinoline-3-carboxamide), thought to activate or modulate regulatory T lympho­ cytes, was evaluated in a randomized placebo-controlled trial in 63 subjects age 10–20 years with recent-onset Stage 3 type 1 diabetes (84). Subjects were treated for 1 year, and beta cell func­ tion was evaluated by glucagon-stimulated C-peptide. Although the initial analysis suggested no difference between groups, when the analysis was confined to those with residual C-peptide at baseline (40 of 63 subjects), a beneficial effect was observed. Although side effects were minimal, the manufacturer did not continue development of linomide, and thus, this was not further pursued. Bacille Calmette-Guerin Vaccine Two double-masked placebo-controlled trials in the 1990s evaluated the effects of BCG (bacille Calmette-Guerin) vaccine, an immune regulatory agent that showed benefit in animal models, in subjects with recent-onset Stage 3 type 1 diabetes (85,86). One, conducted in Alberta, Canada (85), enrolled 26 subjects with mean age 13 years, while the other, conducted in Colorado and Massachusetts (86), enrolled 94 subjects 37–8 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition TABLE 37.2. Intervention Studies in Recent-Onset Type 1 Diabetes STUDY NAME (REF.) INTERVENTION NUMBER RANDOMIZED ACTIVE: PLACEBO AGE RANGE (YEARS) PRIMARY OUTCOME TIME OF PRIMARY OUTCOME OUTCOME P-VALUE Early intervention studies (1970–2000) French Cyclosporine (75) Cyclosporine
