Chapter 37: Prevention of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, study, insulin, trial, c-peptide, group, cell, subjects, studies, prevention, beta, year, years


Study to Investigate the Impact of Diamyd in Patients Newly Diagnosed With Type 1 Diabetes; DIATOR, Diabetes and Atorvastatin Trial; DZB, daclizumab; EXTEND, Tocilizumab in New Onset Type 1 Diabetes trial; GAD, glutamic acid decarboxylase; GCSF, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor; IL, interleukin; ITN, Immune Tolerance Network; MMF, myco­ phenolate mofetil; MMTT, mixed meal tolerance test; NA, not applicable; NS, nonsignificant; REPAIR-T1D, Combination Therapy With Sitagliptin and Lansoprazole to Restore Pancreatic Beta Cell Function in Recent-Onset Type 1 Diabetes trial; START, Study of Thymoglobulin to ARrest Type 1 diabetes; T1DAL, Inducing Remission in New Onset T1DM with Alefacept trial; TUDCA, tauroursodeoxycholic acid. * Data are ambiguous. † Outcome was significant in one of three dosages. ‡ The paper was retracted. § Randomized safety study ║ As of January 2017 ¶ Data are not yet available as of January 2017. SOURCE: References are listed within the table. age 5–18 years. Similar outcomes were seen in both studies, namely that there was no effect of BCG on preservation of beta cell function. Indeed, in both studies, there was a trend to greater decline of beta cell function in the BCG group than in the control group. Oral Insulin Three studies used oral insulin (in various doses) in recent-onset Stage 3 type 1 diabetes (87,88,89). In the French (87) and Italian (88) studies, no effect was seen on beta cell function. In the study conducted in the United States (89), reten­ tion of endogenous beta cell function was said to be dependent upon initial stimu­ lated C-peptide response, age at diabetes onset, and numbers of specific islet cell autoantibodies found. The complex anal­ ysis did not permit a clear conclusion to be drawn, particularly in view of the two negative European studies. Anti-CD5 Monoclonal Antibody Using an anti-CD5 monoclonal antibody, which targets T lymphocytes, linked to ricin A-chain, a toxin, a small open-label dose-escalation pilot study was conducted in 15 subjects with recent-onset Stage 3 type 1 diabetes (90). With only 5 days of treatment, there appeared to be a slower than anticipated decline in beta cell func­ tion (tested by a mixed meal tolerance test [MMTT]) over 1 year, but in the absence of a control group, it was not possible to infer a beneficial effect. Nonetheless, the use of a monoclonal antibody directed at T lymphocytes served to stimulate other investigations of monoclonal antibodies in type 1 diabetes. ANTI-CD3 INTERVENTION STUDIES Extensive studies
