Chapter 37: Prevention of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, study, insulin, trial, c-peptide, group, cell, subjects, studies, prevention, beta, year, years


beneficial effect. Nonetheless, the use of a monoclonal antibody directed at T lymphocytes served to stimulate other investigations of monoclonal antibodies in type 1 diabetes. ANTI-CD3 INTERVENTION STUDIES Extensive studies have been conducted with two anti-CD3 monoclonal antibodies targeting T lymphocytes—teplizumab and otelixizumab—which are humanized Fc-mutated (Fc receptor [FcR] nonbinding) monoclonal antibodies. The first study reported was a small study involving only 12 treated subjects and 12 untreated comparison subjects (91). They received a single 14-day course of treatment with teplizumab within 6 weeks of diagnosis of Stage 3 type 1 diabetes and were found to have slower decline of beta cell function (by MMTT) at 1 year (91). In 37–12 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition these and an expanded group of subjects (total of 21 treated, 21 untreated), there was sustained improvement of beta cell function at 2 years (92). Meanwhile, the otelixizumab study was the first random­ ized placebo-controlled trial with an anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody (93). In it, 80 subjects age 12–39 years, within 4 weeks from diagnosis of Stage 3 type 1 diabetes, were randomized to a 6-day course of either otelixizumab or placebo and followed for 18 months. Beta cell function measured using a hyperglycemic clamp followed by glucagon stimulation was found to be better in the otelixizumab than the placebo group, particularly in subjects with higher baseline insulin secretory response (93). After 4 years of follow-up, although beta cell function was not measured, the otelixizumab group had lower insulin requirements despite similar glycemic control as measured by A1c (94). Thus, effects of a 6-day treatment course were evident 4 years later. The results from these early Phase 2 studies with anti-CD3 treatment led to the initiation of Phase 3 clinical trials with both agents. However, the Phase 3 studies did not meet their primary outcome criteria. For teplizumab, the primary outcome was the combination of A1c <6.5% (<48 mmol/mol) and insulin dose <0.5 units/kg/day (95,96,97). This outcome measure was arbitrarily selected and highly criticized for a number of reasons. Moreover, by using a composite outcome that requires a subject to meet two criteria, the outcome became a dichotomous measure that dilutes the effect of two continuous variables—A1c and insulin dose. More importantly, when the conventional outcome measure of C-peptide was assessed, there was evidence of efficacy both at 1 year (95) and at 2 years (96) following two 14-day courses of teplizumab (at entry and
