Chapter 37: Prevention of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, study, insulin, trial, c-peptide, group, cell, subjects, studies, prevention, beta, year, years


outcome measure of C-peptide was assessed, there was evidence of efficacy both at 1 year (95) and at 2 years (96) following two 14-day courses of teplizumab (at entry and at 26 weeks into the study). This was especially evident in subjects enrolled in the United States (who had lower A1c at entry and during study), in younger subjects (age 8–17 years), in subjects enrolled within 6 weeks of diagnosis, and in subjects with higher levels of C-peptide at entry (95). For otelixizumab, the Phase 3 studies used a dose that was one-sixteenth (total of 3.1 mg over 8 days) that used in the positive Phase 2 study described in the previous paragraph (total of 48 mg), in an effort to avoid any side effects (98,99). Not only were side effects completely obviated, but beneficial effects were also obviated. This outcome highlights the challenge with significant dose reduction—all effective therapies are likely to have some side effects, and eliminating the side effects of a drug may also eliminate its potential benefits. Two other studies with teplizumab are worth noting. In the Autoimmunity- Blocking Antibody for Tolerance in Recently Diagnosed Type 1 Diabetes (AbATE) Trial, conducted by the Immune Tolerance Network (ITN), there was demonstration of efficacy (100). More importantly, however, subjects could be divided into two groups—“responders” and “nonresponders” to treatment. Responders were those who maintained C-peptide better than the randomized, but untreated, comparison group at 24 months. This group, which constituted 45% of subjects treated with teplizumab, maintained beta cell function for 2 years, whereas the nonresponders lost beta cell function at a rate similar to the control group (100). In another teplizumab study, the Delay trial, subjects diagnosed with Stage 3 type 1 diabetes at least 4 but not more than 12 months before enrollment (thus “Delayed” compared to recent onset), were randomized to receive infusions of either teplizumab or placebo (101). There was a slowing in the decline of beta cell function in the group as a whole, driven by beneficial effect in those treated within 4–8 months of diagnosis, as the effects were not significant in the subgroup treated 9–12 months after diagnosis. GAD INTERVENTION STUDIES A vaccine, consisting of GAD with the adjuvant aluminum hydroxide (GAD-Alum), created much excitement on the basis of an initial report of a Phase 2 trial, in which there was claimed benefit, at least in those subjects enrolled early after
