Chapter 37: Prevention of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, study, insulin, trial, c-peptide, group, cell, subjects, studies, prevention, beta, year, years


shifted by 8.2 months in rituximab-treated subjects (117). Thus, the effect appeared to be transient, with no fundamental alteration of the disease process. TrialNet also evaluated effects of abata­ cept (soluble CTLA4Ig), which binds to CD80 and CD86, the ligands for CD28, a co-stimulatory molecule on T lymphocytes (118). In this study, 112 subjects age 6–45 years were randomized in a 2:1 design to receive either monthly infusions of abata­ cept or placebo for 2 years. After those 2 years, there was better maintenance of beta cell function in the abatacept group than in the placebo group, although there was a progressive decline in the abatacept group as well (118). After therapy was stopped, subjects were followed for an additional year, with the abatacept group maintaining a difference from the placebo group; a progressive parallel rate of decline was observed in both groups, but shifted by 9.5 months in abatacept-treated subjects (119). Thus, the beneficial effect was sustained for at least 1 year after cessation of abatacept infusions or 3 years from the diagnosis of type 1 diabetes. Another treatment strategy evaluated by TrialNet was antagonism of the cytokine IL-1, thought to be a key mediator of innate immunity, as it is a proinflam­ matory cytokine that recruits effector T lymphocytes in inflamed tissues and also has direct toxic effects on beta cells. In the TrialNet study, which used the anti-IL-1β monoclonal antibody canaki­ numab, 71 subjects age 6–45 years were randomized in a 2:1 design to receive either monthly subcutaneous injections of canakinumab or placebo for 1 year (120). No difference in beta cell function was observed between groups. The canaki­ numab study was reported together with another study examining antagonism of IL-1, using the human IL-1 receptor antag­ onist anakinra (120). For the anakinra trial, 69 subjects age 18–35 years were randomized to receive either daily subcu­ taneous injections of anakinra or placebo for 9 months. With anakinra as well, there was no difference in beta cell function between groups. Thus, by itself, antago­ nism of IL-1 failed to show benefit. OTHER IMMUNE TOLERANCE NETWORK INTERVENTION STUDIES The ITN conducted a study evaluating thymoglobulin in recent-onset type 1 diabetes, the Study of Thymoglobulin to ARrest Type 1 diabetes (START) (121). In this study, 58 subjects age 12–35 years with recent-onset Stage 3 type 1 diabetes were randomized in a 2:1 design to receive either thymoglobulin (antithy­ mocyte globulin
