Chapter 37: Prevention of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, study, insulin, trial, c-peptide, group, cell, subjects, studies, prevention, beta, year, years


(START) (121). In this study, 58 subjects age 12–35 years with recent-onset Stage 3 type 1 diabetes were randomized in a 2:1 design to receive either thymoglobulin (antithy­ mocyte globulin [ATG]) or placebo over a course of 4 days. There was no between- group difference in beta cell function at 1 year. However, thymoglobulin resulted in generalized depletion of T lymphocytes rather than in the hoped-for specific deple­ tion of effector memory T lymphocytes with preservation of regulatory T cells. In another ITN study, the Inducing Remission in New-Onset Type 1 Diabetes with Alefacept (T1DAL) trial, alefacept was used to target memory T lymphocytes (122). In this trial, 49 subjects age 12–35 years, with recent-onset Stage 3 type 1 diabetes, were randomized in a 2:1 design to receive either alefacept or placebo, given as two 12-week courses of monthly intramuscular injections, separated by a 12-week hiatus. Because the manufac­ turer withdrew alefacept from production during the course of the trial, there was a smaller enrollment than planned. Beta cell function appeared to be preserved in the alefacept group, i.e., it did not decline over 12 months, but the results of the primary outcome—C-peptide during the first 2 hours of the MMTT—just missed statis­ tical significance (p=0.065). In contrast, the secondary outcome—C-peptide during the full 4 hours of the MMTT—indi­ cated a significant difference in beta cell function (p=0.019) (122). At 24 months, both the 4-hour and the 2-hour C-peptide levels were greater in the alefacept group than the placebo group (123). Thus, had the study been fully enrolled, the primary outcome may have been met. Moreover, alefacept did appear to have a greater impact on central memory and effector memory T lymphocytes with sparing of naïve and regulatory T lymphocyte populations. Taken together, these find­ ings suggest that targeting memory T lymphocytes may be an attractive immu­ nomodulatory approach. ITN also conducted two small pilot studies. One evaluated the safety of a vaccine using human insulin B-chain in incomplete Freund’s adjuvant, administered as a single intramuscular injection (124). In this pilot safety study, 12 subjects age 18–35 years were randomized to receive either the vaccine or placebo. There were no safety issues. No difference in beta cell function was found, but there was suggestive evidence of generation of anti­ gen-specific regulatory T lymphocytes. The other ITN pilot study was an open label Phase 1 study using the combination of IL-2
