Chapter 37: Prevention of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, study, insulin, trial, c-peptide, group, cell, subjects, studies, prevention, beta, year, years


but there was suggestive evidence of generation of anti­ gen-specific regulatory T lymphocytes. The other ITN pilot study was an open label Phase 1 study using the combination of IL-2 and rapamycin (125). Nine subjects were enrolled, age 20–36 years, between 4 and 48 months from diagnosis of type 1 diabetes if they had a peak C-peptide of at least 0.4 nmol/L during an MMTT. The study was halted due to the reported acute decline in C-peptide during the first 3 months; although, without a comparison group and without much literature data on the rate of C-peptide decline in this time frame after diagnosis, it is not clear whether this was unusual. There appeared to be a subsequent recovery of C-peptide in four of the subjects. Although there was an increase in regulatory T lymphocytes, natural killer cells and eosinophils also increased, with no difference in effector T lymphocytes. OTHER RECENT INTERVENTION STUDIES A pilot Phase 1 safety study used alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT), an anti-inflammatory agent that had beneficial effects in animal models (126). No safety issues were identified. The study showed that AAT was associated with a down-modulation of IL-1β, which may indicate potential benefit for type 1 diabetes. 37–14 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition A study using an insulin B-chain altered peptide ligand enrolled 188 subjects age 10–35 years (127). Subjects were random­ ized to one of four groups—three doses of the drug or placebo. After 2 years, there was no difference in beta cell function among the four groups. Another study evaluated a plasmid- encoded proinsulin (128). Subjects age 18–40 years were randomized to one of five groups—four doses of the drug or placebo. Although beta cell function improved at one time point for one of the four doses, the overall intervention failed to show benefit. A pilot safety study with a proinsulin peptide enrolled 48 subjects randomized to one of two dose groups or placebo (129). The study showed no safety issues and serves as a basis for additional studies. Another small pilot study has been done with the combination of low-dose ATG and pegylated granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (GCSF) (130). This study enrolled 25 subjects age 12–45 years with type 1 diabetes of 4–24 months duration, randomized 2:1 to active treatment or placebo. Subjects received intravenous ATG (or placebo) over 2 days, followed by subcutaneous GCSF every 2 weeks for six doses. At the end of
