Chapter 37: Prevention of Type 1 Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, type, type diabetes, study, insulin, trial, c-peptide, group, cell, subjects, studies, prevention, beta, year, years


randomized 2:1 to active treatment or placebo. Subjects received intravenous ATG (or placebo) over 2 days, followed by subcutaneous GCSF every 2 weeks for six doses. At the end of 1 year, beta cell function was preserved, as measured by MMTT. At the end of 2 years, the difference between groups was no longer statistically significant (131). A larger study in recent-onset Stage 3 type 1 diabetes is being conducted to pursue these observa­ tions (132). The Diabetes and Atorvastatin (DIATOR) Trial randomized 89 subjects age 18–39 years to atorvastatin or placebo, on the basis that atorvastatin appears to have immunomodulatory properties (133). This provocative study did not meet its primary outcome (difference in C-peptide between groups at 18 months). However, when the authors examined the decline in C-peptide within the atorvastatin group, there was a nonsignificant decline, whereas the decline in C-peptide within the placebo group was significant (133). A further analysis suggested that individuals with markers of inflammation may be the ones that benefit (134). Because atorvastatin is a common, orally administered generic drug, further evaluation of atorvastatin may be warranted. A small pilot study evaluated etanercept, a blocker of the proinflammatory cytokine TNF (135). Although only 18 subjects were enrolled, the etanercept group had increased beta cell function at 6 months, whereas the placebo group had decreased beta cell function at that time, thus achieving statistical significance between groups. A small safety study, involving 24 subjects, evaluated three dosing regimens of a relatively low dose of IL-2 (136). There was an increase in regulatory T lymphocytes, and no safety issues emerged, including no decline in C-peptide that was reported with higher doses of IL-2 in combination with rapamycin (125). One study examined the effects of the combination of sitagliptin and lansopra­ zole in patients with recent-onset Stage 3 type 1 diabetes (137). The rationale of this study was that a dipeptidyl-peptidase 4 (DPP-4) inhibitor (sitagliptin) would increase serum levels of glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), while a proton pump inhibitor (lansoprazole) would increase serum levels of gastrin. In experimental animals, the combination GLP-1 and gastrin has been shown to increase beta cell mass and function. The human study—REPAIR T1D—randomized 68 subjects age 11–36 years in a 2:1 design to receive either the combination of sitagliptin and lansoprazole or placebo for both drugs. At 1 year, there was no difference in the rate of decline of beta cell function comparing
