Chapter
KEYWORDS: research, countries, disease, health, global, diseases, developing, priorities, knowledge, developing countries, burden, world, development, interventions, example


Priorities for Global Research and Development of Interventions Barry R. Bloom, Catherine M. Michaud, John R. La Montagne, andLone Simonsen It is a profound and necessary truth that the deep things in scienceare not found because they are useful; they are found because it was possible to find them. —J. Robert Oppenheimer In R. Rhodes, The Making of the Atomic Bomb AND MAJOR CHALLENGES research as “problems, issues, and concerns that transcend national boundaries and may best be addressed by sharing Half of the entire increase in human life expectancy—a crude knowledgeandcooperativeaction.” but easily defined measure of the health of populations— An important corollary of this definition is that global realized over recorded history occurred in the 20th century. health research is derived from individuals and institutions 48.0 to 77.1 years in the United States and from 48.0 to 77.7 should be available to everyone, not just to the country in years in the United Kingdom, gains of almost 30 years. which it is done or that sponsored it.As a result, knowledge the industrial nations. For example, between 1900 and 1990, definition possesses the following two special properties 32 years .These increases are largely attributable to a better understanding of biology, medicine, and public • Nonexclusivity.Thus,when supplied it does not require pay- ment to benefit individuals or groups (for example,the ben- Research is traditionally defined as the generation of new efit to the world community ofeliminating smallpox). knowledge and the development of new and enabling tech- • Nonrivalry.Hence,the use of the benefits by an individual, nologies to identify or respond to major gaps in current group,or country will not diminish others’ability to bene- knowledge. Research includes the development of new fit from the same good or service.1 Organization (WHO) and its Advisory Committee on Health Research have suggested two other defining aspects Investmentsinresearchhaveproducedremarkableimprove- differentcontextsandthecreationanddisseminationofprod- Immunizationprogramshaveledtounprecedentedprogressin uctsofknowledge.TheInstituteofMedicine(1997,page1)in thefightagainstcommonchildhooddiseases(suchasmeasles, pertussis,poliomyelitis,andtetanus)andintheeradicationof accurately,reliably,and cheaply.With these technologies,global smallpox. At the same time, vaccination programs have cat- research relationships that once would have been impossible alyzedtheconstructionofaglobalinfrastructureforepidemio- are now commonplace. For example, in a matter of weeks, logicalmonitoringandresearch,especiallyintheAmericasand researchers in China could sequence the gene for the surface inAsia.Moreover,researchersarerapidlydevelopingmanypre- protein ofthe coronavirus associated with severe acute respira- ventive, diagnostic, and therapeutic tools, and the growing tory syndrome (SARS) and then produce the surface protein powerofgenomicsandproteomicswillacceleratethepace. as diagnostic antigen. Such speedy reaction would have been The 21st century will see a continuation of the inexorable inconceivable just a
