Chapter
KEYWORDS: research, countries, disease, health, global, diseases, developing, priorities, knowledge, developing countries, burden, world, development, interventions, example


(SARS) and then produce the surface protein powerofgenomicsandproteomicswillacceleratethepace. as diagnostic antigen. Such speedy reaction would have been The 21st century will see a continuation of the inexorable inconceivable just a decade ago. parities between countries in terms of gross domestic product and varies in different countries of the world (box 4.1). The per capita.On a population basis,however,economic gains by predictable outcome of current trends is an increase in the numbers of people substantially wealthier than ever before tries. Tip O’Neill, the colorful speaker of the U.S. House of .Cell phones and radios are ubiquitous,even in Representatives for 10 years, often said that “all politics is Box 4.1 Context of Global Health Advances include the following: • Disparities have increased. The richest 20 percent of • the globalization of knowledge and the increased the world’s population now accounts for 150 times the mobility ofthe world’s population income of the poorest 20 percent. The ratio of the • the expansion ofknowledge about disease problems in income of the top 20 percent to that of the poorest most ofthe developing world 20percent rose from 30 to 1 in 1960 to 61 to 1 in 1991 • the remarkable progress achieved in the control of and to 78 to 1 in 1994.Evidence ofglobal environmen- infectious diseases in most parts ofthe world tal degradation is apparent,especially in the developing • the worldwide penetration of new forms of world. For example, 45 percent of tropical rain forest communication has already been lost, at least 20 percent of current • thepromiseofnewtechnologiesinbiomedicalresearch species will be extinct by 2030 and 50 percent by the (for example, in the fields of genomics, transgenic end ofthe century,and halfofChina’s and many other organisms,informatics,robotics,andnanotechnology) countries’cities already face water shortages. • the increasing flow of private resources devoted to • With global warming, temperatures will likely rise understandinghealthproblemsrelatedtodevelopment. 1.0°C to 4.5°C this century, threatening coastal areas and changing patterns of vectorborne and epidemic The following concerns are pertinent: disease. • The world’s population continues to grow,numbering • The pace of migration from rural to urban environ- 6.3 billion people in 2004, with 200,000 added each ments is speeding up,giving rise to more megacities. day. In at least 68 countries, more than 40 percent of • The period 1955–98 witnessed 31 civil and foreign the population is younger than 15,whereas in wealthy wars, 35 million displaced people and refugees, and countries, the proportion of elderly
