Chapter
KEYWORDS: research, countries, disease, health, global, diseases, developing, priorities, knowledge, developing countries, burden, world, development, interventions, example


• The period 1955–98 witnessed 31 civil and foreign the population is younger than 15,whereas in wealthy wars, 35 million displaced people and refugees, and countries, the proportion of elderly people in the 127instances ofstate failures—ethnic wars,revolution- population is expanding quickly. ary wars,and disruptive regime changes—in 96 states. • Despite falling global poverty rates,progress is uneven: • Terrorism has become a global threat. 1.2 billion people still live on less than US$1 a day,and • Gender discrimination persists. 2.8 billion live on less than US$2 a day. One in six children is chronically hungry. Sources:King and Zeng 2001, 2002; Wilson 2003; World Bank 2004; World Revolution ( 104 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Barry R. Bloom, Catherine M. Michaud, John R. La Montagne, and others Global Burden of Disease disease and major unipolar depressive disorders,for exam- ple,but also these two chronic conditions already account Tables 4.1 and 4.2summarize some ofthe key findings that are for an increasing burden ofdisease and death in developing most relevant to a discussion of global health research priori- countries.Demographic changes in many low- and middle- ties.The magnitude and distribution of the burden of disease income countries are driving the observed transition toward across different regions in 2001 reveals a great deal about patterns of disease previously seen only in the industrial unmet research needs (Mathers and others 2003),in particular: countries.The incidence ofboth ischemic heart disease and • Communicable diseases and maternal,perinatal,and nutri- cerebrovascular disease increases rapidly with age; thus, tional conditions remain the major contributors to the bur- countries in which the proportion of elderly people in the den of disease in Sub-Saharan Africa and in parts of East population increases will also experience increases in the Asia and the Pacific.These regions differ significantly from relative importance of noncommunicable illness. Unlike all the other low- and middle-income regions and call for a communicable illnesses among younger people,chronic ill- • Noncommunicable diseases are already the leading only delayed.These factors must be considered when setting contributors to the disease burden in all other low- and priorities for global health research. middle-income regions,which are undergoing rapid demo- graphic, economic, and epidemiological transitions. Not Children under five still account for an unnecessarily large only does the world face an epidemic of cardiovascular share of the disease burden in many low- and middle-income Table 4.1 Broad Patterns of the Disease Burden, by World Bank Region, 2001 East
