Chapter
KEYWORDS: research, countries, disease, health, global, diseases, developing, priorities, knowledge, developing countries, burden, world, development, interventions, example


that HIV/AIDS can be pre- diovascular disease,diabetes,or depression,for example,is not vented and controlled on a nationwide scale. relevant to developing countries.Vast knowledge is available on Eventhoughthepublicinindustrialcountriesoftenseems how to prevent a major portion of heart disease,lung cancer, surprisedbyeachnewoutbreakof infectiousdisease,thepat- type 2 diabetes,sexually transmitted infections,and injuries in tern of emerging infectious diseases worldwide is continuing edge effectively.Thus,more research is needed to successfully ple have been afflicted by 32 new diseases that had never transfer that knowledge from industrial to developing previously been reported in humans, such as hepatitis C, countries. For example, if monitored carefully, cost-effective, Legionnaire’s disease, Ebola, Vibrio cholerae 0139 epidemic, community-based antihypertensive,antiretroviral,and antide- Nipahvirusencephalitis,SARS,andthehighlypathogenicavian pressive treatments could have an enormous effect in most influenza. The 1918 influenza epidemic killed 20 million to developing countries. 40millionpeopleworldwide.Preciselywhenhuman-to-human Increased surveillance and diagnostic capacity for emerging transmissionoftheavianinfluenzaviruseswilloccurisimpos- infectious diseases in developing countries will prevent sible to predict, but it is likely to happen eventually. This 106 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Barry R. Bloom, Catherine M. Michaud, John R. La Montagne, and others eventualityunderscorestheimportanceofencouragingsystem- the third largest contributor to the global burden of disease. aticcollaborationonemergingandreemerginginfectionsand Clearly public health sectors have a great deal to contribute in strengthening global surveillance and laboratory capability.A terms of reducing injuries from motor vehicle crashes, falls, syndromic approach to diagnosis and surveillance, as for the and workplace injuries.Less amenable to intervention by pub- nationofpoliomyelitisintheWesternhemisphere,maybecru- Obtainingaccuratefiguresisdifficult,butasMurrayandothers cialwhenlaboratorydiagnosisisnotreadilyavailable. (2002) note,available statisticshave greatly underestimated the September and October 2001 in the United States has raised the specter ofbiological terrorism,either with pathogens natural to The Crisis in Health Systems the environment that took years to eradicate,like smallpox,or genetically engineered pathogens ofunknown capability. Unprecedented advances in the development of health care Thus, the global infectious disease agenda remains unfin- technologies,drugs,vaccines,and new diagnostics,which hold ished.Given the continuing emergence of new infectious dis- the promise of healthier and longer lives for many,have pro- eases and the increasing resistance of microbial pathogens to found influences on health systems worldwide; in rich and existing drugs and ofinsect vectors to pesticides,as well as low poor countries alike, they raise expectations and demand for information, costs, quality of care, equity, organization, and The Coming Epidemic: Chronic Diseases and Aging accountability. All systems are challenged by the need for Populations. In 1998,for the first time,chronic diseases con- quality improvement and self-learning. tributed more to the global burden of disease than infectious The overall cost of health care
