Chapter
KEYWORDS: research, countries, disease, health, global, diseases, developing, priorities, knowledge, developing countries, burden, world, development, interventions, example


need for Populations. In 1998,for the first time,chronic diseases con- quality improvement and self-learning. tributed more to the global burden of disease than infectious The overall cost of health care has increased so much that diseases, indicating the emergence of a convergence between fewer individuals can afford to pay for the best available care; industrial countries. Worldwide, cardiovascular disease is the nationalpolicydebatesworldwide.Accessandequityconsider- major cause of mortality and morbidity (13.6 percent of total ations pose particularly daunting challenges in poor countries, disability-adjusted life years) followed by cancer (6.6 percent of where access to treatment may be a matter of life and death total disability-adjusted life years).Diabetes type 2 is increasing forentire populations.This situation now prevails in the Sub- in most countries of the world at an alarming rate.An unan- Saharan African countries,where the continuing spread ofthe ticipated finding from the global burden ofdisease analysiswas HIV/AIDS epidemic has resulted in a sharp drop in life that psychiatric illness,particularly depression,is a major cause expectancy. of disability everywhere (Murray and Lopez 1996a, 1996b). Comparativeanalysisof healthsystemsworldwideseeksto Depression is now the most important disability among understand the determinants of their performance—for the second largest contributor to the burden ofdisease by 2020. and quality of care—and to find ways to correct failures. The success of public health and childhood immunization Strengthening such research is one obvious way to tackle the in reducing the number of childhood deaths from infectious currentcrisisinhealthsystems.Anotherlessobviousbutimpor- disease is partially responsible for the increasing burden of tantimplicationof thecurrentsituationistheneedtopursue chronic diseases. However, part of the increase is caused by thebestpossiblesciencetodevelopnewandbettertoolsandthe poor eating habits, lack of exercise, smoking, and other concomitantneedtoensuretheavailabilityandaffordabilityof unhealthy lifestyle choices that tend to increase with a nation’s drugsandtechnologieswheretheyareneededtoaddressmajor income. Even though noncommunicable diseases associated healthproblems. with aging are increasingly contributing to the global burden ofdisease,the emergence ofa highly virulent infectious disease New Frontiers for R&D pandemic could allow communicable illnesses to reassert their primacy. The extraordinary advances in science provide unprecedented opportunities for both industrial and developing regions.The The Unnecessary Epidemic:Injuries,Casualties ofWar,and following sections highlight promises as well as potential pit- Humanitarian Emergencies. Before the analysis ofthe global falls offrontier research. burden ofdisease,the contribution ofinjuries to the burden of disease and disability was unclear.The most rapidly rising cat- Genomics, Molecular Epidemiology, and Preventive egory ofinjuries is that resulting from motor vehicle crashes.If Medicine. Probably the most exciting area of biomedical present trends continue,by 2020 motor vehicle crashes will be research for at
