Chapter
KEYWORDS: research, countries, disease, health, global, diseases, developing, priorities, knowledge, developing countries, burden, world, development, interventions, example


diseases in babies in poor countries or to poor populations of rich coun- other ways.In a second example,the growing number ofavail- tries. Ultimately the Human Genome Project and the rapid able influenza virus sequences will greatly aid understanding of advances in biomedical research in the industrial world have the epidemiology and evolution of pandemic and interpan- the unintended potential to increase the gap between rich and demic influenza viruses and will be a powerful tool for guiding poor.If,however,most complex diseases have multigenic sus- vaccine strain selection. ceptibilities, the magic bullet approach of boutique medicine The genome project has already changed the understanding may not fulfill current expectations ofrich or poor countries. dealt largely with external and environmental risks for disease. more traditional pharmacology, must be tested carefully to What the Human Genome Project offers is knowledge of the ensure that people in developing countries are not unfairly disease.Previously undreamed of molecular and cellular tools carry out 60 percent of clinical trials.Many of these organiza- to explore gene expression and function are becoming available tions already test products in developing countries that will Box 4.2 Uncovering Individual Risks for Specific Diseases Genomic information makes possible predicting individ- a poor prognosis and are creating the first generation ual risks for certain diseases and to certain components of of drugs effective against mutated genes causing specific the environment. One level relates to polymorphisms in cancers. individual genes that represent intrinsic risks for certain The promise of the genome is first and foremost a conditions (for example, breast cancer). A second level greater knowledge about disease, risks for disease, and relates to differences in the expression patterns ofmultiple mechanisms of pathogenesis.The exploitation of knowl- genes on DNA chips that make it possible, for example, edge from the genome is just beginning, and practical to distinguish melanomas from lymphomas from colon ramifications and many effective products have yet to be cancers or stages within these cancers that no pathologist realized. Despite the hyperbole about its promise, the could duplicate for accuracy. Within patterns for breast genome does represent a new frontier, beyond random cancer or certain types of leukemia,experts can now dis- testing of compounds, for rational and evidence-based tinguish those likely to survive five years from those with design ofeffective interventions. Source:Authors. 108 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Barry R. Bloom, Catherine M. Michaud, John R. La Montagne, and others have
