Chapter
KEYWORDS: research, countries, disease, health, global, diseases, developing, priorities, knowledge, developing countries, burden, world, development, interventions, example


years from those with design ofeffective interventions. Source:Authors. 108 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Barry R. Bloom, Catherine M. Michaud, John R. La Montagne, and others have anticipated markets in rich countries but are unlikely, Manyofthelessonsofsocialepidemiology—andtheflourishing should they be licensed,to be available or affordable to popu- world of advertising—indicate that most behaviors,including lations in developing countries.This practice is both an ethical riskyorunhealthybehaviors,aresociallypatterned.Sciencehas and a practical health problem. unfortunatelynotdoneagoodjobof learninghowtochange Finally,in countries where testing for genetic risks becomes socialpatterns.Forexample,merelytargetingindividualsathigh available,the likelihood ofrisk adjustment—that is,the exclu- risk for HIV/AIDS without changing the social context that sion ofpeople with some risks from insurance and discrimina- mightreinforcestigmatizationisnotthebestwaytopreventdis- tion in relation to jobs,marriage,and housing—can be antici- ease.Indeed,inmanydevelopingcountriesthatnowprovidefree pated. In this information age, personal genetic information counseling, testing, and antiretroviral drugs for people with will certainly present an unprecedented challenge to privacy HIV/AIDS,thebiggestbarrierremainsthesocialstigmaofbeing and confidentiality. HIVpositive.Healthsystemsmustwidentheirviewbeyondindi- vidualpatientstotargetentirecommunitiesandthemediato A Faint Hope: Population-Based Research. The focus of change unhealthy socially patterned behavior. In the United future research in the rich countries will likely be on individual States,epidemiologicalestimatesindicatethat50percentofthe risks and on interventions tailored to those risks.Yet from the 2.3 million annual deaths are preventable or postponable. point ofview ofthe world as a whole,the most effective inter- McGinnis and Foege (2004) find that in 2000, 19 percent of ventions are population-based interventions,such as vaccines, deathswerecausedbytobacco,about14percentwereattributa- insecticide-impregnated bednets, environmental modifica- ble to poor diet and lack of exercise,and about 12 percent to tions,antismoking campaigns,clean water,and safe sex.With injuries.Oneofthegreatchallengesistolearnhowtocommuni- knowledge derived from biomedical science and the Human catewhatisknownaboutthepreventionofsuchconditionsas Genome Project, it is hoped that some interventions will heartdisease,obesity,anddiabetesmoreeffectively. emerge that do not require knowing any individuals’intrinsic Reliable and comparative analysis of health risks is key for genetic risks and that may apply to entire populations at risk. preventing disease and injury. A recently published study The hope is that they could be comparable to existing (Ezzati and others 2003)reports estimates of the disease bur- population-based interventions—for example, vaccines rec- den caused by the joint effect of20 selected leading risk factors ommended for all children to prevent major infectious dis- in 14 subepidemiological regions of the world. In regions eases,treatment ofschoolchildren once a year with ivermectin where high mortality persists,four risk factors—underweight to prevent onchocerciasis,and antismoking campaigns. in childhood, micronutrient deficiency, indoor smoke from In the rich countries,research has shown that aspirin and solid fuels,and tobacco—caused 35 to 42 percent oflower res- a combination of inexpensive antihypertensive drugs reduce piratory
