Chapter
KEYWORDS: research, countries, disease, health, global, diseases, developing, priorities, knowledge, developing countries, burden, world, development, interventions, example


deficiency, indoor smoke from In the rich countries,research has shown that aspirin and solid fuels,and tobacco—caused 35 to 42 percent oflower res- a combination of inexpensive antihypertensive drugs reduce piratory infections in 2000.In the same regions,the combined deaths from heart attacks by 30 percent and from strokes by risks of high blood pressure,high cholesterol,high body mass 50percent.Even though they are offpatent,these interventions index, low fruit and vegetable intake, and physical inactivity are currently not widely used in developing countries. These caused 82 to 89 percent ofthe burden ofischemic heart disease. findings are the products of basic research,but their effective Important gaps in scientific evidence about the effects ofmul- use will depend on operational research. tiple risk factors and risk factor interactions persist and require further exploration (Ezzati and others 2003). In this context, The Next Frontier: Human Behavior and Social investigators should not underestimate social and behavioral Determinants of Disease. Another revolution in research is determinants of disease, including poverty, environment, emerging:understanding the functioning of the human brain culture,and so on. and,ultimately,human behavior.Biomarkers for neuropsychi- atric disease and environmental stresses are being sought,and ”Appropriate Science” for the Developing World with MRI and positron emission tomography technology, researchers can see areas ofthe brain that are thinking,remem- Although much discussion about “appropriate technology”for bering,or enjoying music.Within the next 50 years,science will developing countries has taken place in recent decades, curi- have the technical ability to begin to untangle the processes of ously little discussion has occurred about appropriate science. thinking in molecular terms,with exciting or frightening pos- Much of the past debate assessed the imbalance of research sibilities to alter or affect them.Anticipating quantifiable bio- relevant to developing countries’health problems largely as a markers for stresses and psychopathology as well as objective function of the projected affordability of the products of the tools for measuring the effectiveness ofnew psychotropic inter- research—drugs,diagnostics,and new technologies developed ventions in changing behavior is not unreasonable. in the industrial countries—rather than considering the poten- Thefactorsthatleadpeopletoengageinunhealthyordestruc- tial contributions that scientists from developing countries tivebehaviorsaremorecomplexthansimpleindividualchoices. could make both to advancing science and to addressing their Priorities for Global Research and Development of Interventions | 109 countries’ health problems. Although some technologies are of communication between individuals that makes trans- more or less appropriate to contexts in developing countries for mission of knowledge possible. One thinks of a few great developing countries. their colleagues in developing countries at ease and
