Chapter
KEYWORDS: research, countries, disease, health, global, diseases, developing, priorities, knowledge, developing countries, burden, world, development, interventions, example


basis for most resource-poor countries—these drugs can be given safely and judgments of academic and scientific achievement and is a effectively by community-based treatment programs, be precondition for scientific support and advancement. appropriately monitored, and prevent the emergence of drug • Contextual knowledge.This kind ofknowledge is absolutely resistance or toxicity and thus provide cures for a high percent- essential to bringing the fruits ofpublic knowledge to a par- age of the patients in poor countries.However,if thismethod ticular country or people. It requires learning and experi- can be used,it will strengthen the fight against HIV/AIDS. ence and involves cultural,social,and economic knowledge Research on community-based programs for treating chil- of a place, without which effectively implementing public dren with epilepsy or adults with depressionprovides another knowledge or scientific discoveries in that context or evalu- example. The provision of ivermectin (Mectizan) to prevent ating the success of programs within national contexts is and treat onchocerciasis revealed that even making a drug to be often impossible.In this case,research may have to be car- taken only once a year available and providing it free ofcharge ried out in relation to how to implement interventions,as had an almost negligible effect initially,because in some areas WHO’s Special Programme for Research and Training in of Sub-Saharan Africa an effective health delivery system was Tropical Diseases programs in leprosy and malaria have simply not available.It is to Merck’s credit that the Mectizan done in the absence offull scientific evidence.As essential as program invested considerable resources to create a delivery it may be,the global scientific and academic communities and monitoring system that has moved onchocerciasis to the do not widely recognize or value contextual knowledge. category of diseases targeted for elimination as public health • Tacit knowledge.In contrast to public knowledge and con- problems by WHO. textual knowledge,tacit or intrinsic knowledge is impossible The flow of knowledge is not unidirectional. Reciprocity to write down or teach because it depends on a special kind between research in different fields and different countries is 110 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Barry R. Bloom, Catherine M. Michaud, John R. La Montagne, and others vital for the expansion ofknowledge,and the unique contribu- three research needs that had not previously been articulated as tions ofdeveloping countries to global health research are often essential to development. overlooked and not always appreciated. For example, DOTS • The first is a need for new knowledge
