Chapter
KEYWORDS: research, countries, disease, health, global, diseases, developing, priorities, knowledge, developing countries, burden, world, development, interventions, example


as tions ofdeveloping countries to global health research are often essential to development. overlooked and not always appreciated. For example, DOTS • The first is a need for new knowledge through research to was initially developed in Tanzania, where researchers found develop new tools for addressing continually emerging that the best drug combination given with supervision, even global health problems.Some ofthis knowledge will be gen- though more costly, was both more effective in preventing eralizable, but much will be context specific and perhaps relapse and emerging drug resistance and more cost-effective country specific. than the cheapest combinations. Similarly, artemisinin, the • The second is the recognition that in many developing most rapidly acting drug for treating cerebral malaria,derives countries research capacity—that is,people with the train- from an ancient Chinese medicine, qinghaosu, and is now a ing to carry out surveillance and laboratory and operational major tool in the armamentarium of malaria treatments. research—is limited, indicating an enormous need for Research on isolated populations in developing countries can training.Career structures and incentives to retain trained further the understanding ofsome ofthe genetic determinants of a variety of diseases,and transnational research on almost systems in developing countries are also needed.An enor- any disease has the potential to provide important insights into mous brain drain is under way for nursing and other health differences in risk factors in different contexts. professionals. The inducements to leave developing coun- Such reciprocity depends critically on the development of tries for higher salaries and better working conditions in the scientific capacity. In terms of resource allocation, research industrial world are compelling,even though many in the funders often appear to have overlooked the necessary connec- health field would prefer to help alleviate their own coun- tion between research and training the next generations of tries’health problems ifit were feasible for them to do so. researchers.Scientific and health capacity building and training • The third is that all the key priorities depend on the are inseparable from research,yet fundersseldom recognize the strengthening ofinstitutions:universities,schools ofpublic training aspect, and it is difficult to ensure that funding for training will be recognized as integral to research. research institutions for health policy and economics.As the report indicates,remarkably few high-level institutions for ”Appropriate Technology” for the Developing World research and training in public health have been created in developing countries during the past 25 years. Little The development community has long debated the nature progress
