Chapter
KEYWORDS: research, countries, disease, health, global, diseases, developing, priorities, knowledge, developing countries, burden, world, development, interventions, example


and the number ofcases is small.When Theseexamplesrepresentanimportantparadigmshift they are not contained, they can have enormous human in global research collaboration in that they required and economic consequences. Economic losses attributed nationalsurveillanceattheepidemiologicalandlaboratory to SARS,which infected 8,000 people and killed 774,have levels;unprecedentedsharingofinformationatalllevelsof been estimated at US$30 million per day in Canada and a thehealthsystem;andclosecooperationamongclinicians, total ofUS$16 billion to US$30 billion in Asia. epidemiologists, and bench scientists, as well as those The global response to the SARS epidemic demon- involvedinveterinarysurveillance,fortherapiddevelop- strated the power of international collaboration under mentofeffectiveinterventionstrategies.Integratedglobal researchers, and institutions in several countries to halt sharingandownershipof specimensandreagents,which the progression ofa new disease (La Montagne and others haveprofoundimplicationsforfutureglobalhealthR&D. 2004).Another example is influenza:an existing interna- Theyalsounderscorethat,despitethepoliticaltemptations tional network of influenza research sites, which is criti- of denial and the economic threats of epidemic disease, cal for defining the strains to be used each year for honestandaccurateinformationisessentialforearlywarn- immunization, was instrumental in developing an ingandformakingeffectivehealthpolicy. Source:Authors. collaborationscanbedifficult,theyarenotinexpensive,andtheir Inherent Difficulties in Setting Priorities. The first part of major effect (box 4.3). Questions arise about how to develop lems and the potential of global health research to make a economies of scale in R&D and institutional capabilities; difference.Given the complexity of the task and the multiple howmanyresearchcentersareoptimalinadevelopingcountry; participants involved in the process,defining priorities for the howmuchshouldbedonebycountrypartnersandhowmuch global health research agenda is daunting. inthedevelopingcountries;andwhattherolesofbasicscientific Scientists tend to argue that more research is urgently need- be. The experience of working together in true partnerships tainly include worthwhile issues,but they may not be priorities appearstobegenerallyrewardingforscientistsinbothindustrial in the wider context ofglobal health R&D. and developing countries and seems to be an effective way of Some hold the view that the choice of priorities should increasingresearchcapacity.Onesetoflessonsstilltobelearned begin with a statement defining topics that should not be iswhatthebestformsofcollaborationare:individualscientist, priorities—for example,the development of vaccines (such as institutional,transnational,ormultinational. a leprosy or hookworm vaccine) when cost-effective treatments are available.Others strongly disagree,given the interconnect- PRIORITY SETTING edness and unpredictability ofscience. The failure of the U.S.“war on cancer”offers a useful cau- Setting priorities for R&D ofinterventions is both complex and tion on the limitations of rational planning of science.In the critical in the context of severely constrained resources.A sys- 1960s, a group of distinguished scientists developed a set of tematic approach that takes into account the disease burden as future research priorities for the National Cancer Program. well as scientific opportunities has been proposed to guide Despite the importance ofthe problem,the requisite scientific decisions. knowledge was not then available
