Chapter
KEYWORDS: research, countries, disease, health, global, diseases, developing, priorities, knowledge, developing countries, burden, world, development, interventions, example


future research priorities for the National Cancer Program. well as scientific opportunities has been proposed to guide Despite the importance ofthe problem,the requisite scientific decisions. knowledge was not then available to develop the modern tools that have recently been successful in treating and preventing Approaches cancer.Planning for where the new innovations and discover- The challenge is to ensure that available resources are targeted ies will come from is hard, and planners have to be open to at major health problems. changing their priorities and incorporating new approaches. 112 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Barry R. Bloom, Catherine M. Michaud, John R. La Montagne, and others A key challenge is the problematic nature ofanticipating sci- ments of the burden of disease; developed countries’ threat entific connections in advance.For example,the sequencing of assessments,for example,in relation to bioterrorism and epi- a mouse leukemia virus genome as part ofthe National Cancer demic potential;scientific or technical opportunities;advocacy; Program is what enabled scientists years later to classify HIV as political commitment; ethical considerations; and funding a related member of the retrovirus family.Indeed,who would availability. have predicted that research on the once arcane coronavirus Using a systematic and evidence-based approach to priority the esoteric question of whether tumor cells extinguished dif- Relating to Future Intervention Options (1996) undertook the ferentiated functions of normal body cells would lead to the first broadly based,systematic effort to formulate “best buys” discovery ofmonoclonal antibodies? Or that the study ofsex in for health R&D (table 4.3).The steps included assessments of bacteria would give rise to the entire genetic revolution of the the following: past halfcentury? The need to recognize the unpredictability of science and the limitations of scientists at any time is best • size ofthe disease burden illustrated by Oppenheimer’s statement at the beginning ofthis • reasons the disease burden persisted chapter. • adequacy ofthe current scientific knowledge base • cost-effectiveness of potential interventions and the prob- Systematic and Evidence-Based Approach to Priority Setting. ability ofsuccessful development ofnew tools The process of setting priorities for the global health research • adequacy of the current level of ongoing research and agenda is complex and includes accurateor perceived assess- funding. Table 4.3 R&D Best Buys Category Key R&D investments Maternal and child health Strategic research Understand the relative importance, in different environments, of increased nutrient intake and of control of infectious disease as a way to reduce malnutrition Package development
