Chapter
KEYWORDS: research, countries, disease, health, global, diseases, developing, priorities, knowledge, developing countries, burden, world, development, interventions, example


universities and health systems in devel- denof infectiousdiseases,particularlyHIV/AIDS,andonthe oping countries. theexpectation is that the health needs of most Sub-Saharan Increase Global Research Capacity African countries will similarly converge with those of other regions of the world and that knowledge developed in these Research capacity continues to limit the successful implemen- regions will be transferable and helpful to accelerating devel- tation ofthose interventions most needed to improve health in opmentthere. resource-constrained environments. The number of people Associologistshavelongrecognized,scientificandmedical trained to carry out the surveillance and the laboratory and technology diffuses from the industrial to the developing operational research that are so essential to the succes- countries, and it will, in the short term at least, increase the sful implementation of cost-effective interventions remains disparities between rich and poor countries—and perhaps to woefully inadequate. Redressing this limitation is a daunting a comparable extent between the rich and the poor within task that will require substantial financial investment and countries—because more affluent and better-educated popu- creative approaches to create conditions that will reverse the lations tend to have greater access to new technologies. brain drain and strengthen academic and research institutions urbandwellersandpoorruralpopulationsinChinaandIndia have increased over the past decade, the overall quality of Create a Global Health Architecture healthof theentirepopulationhasincreasedduringthesame will be a great leveler over time and will contribute to reduc- there is no forum or architecture for coordinating the increas- ingglobalinequities. ingly important multisectoral interactions to improve health. Priorities for Global Research and Development of Interventions | 117 Protecting Our People, Enhancing Our Economy, and Advancing Our International Interests.Washington DC:National Academy Press. transport,finance,trade,immigration,communication,andthe King,G.,and L.Zeng.2001.“Improving Forecasts ofState Failure.”World environment.Major health problems will be most successfully Politics53 (July):623–58. La Montagne,J.R.,L.Simonsen,R.J.Taylor,and J.Turnbull.2004.“SARS Research Working Group Co-Chairs—Severe Acute Respiratory Support Freedom of Scientific Inquiry Syndrome: Developing a Research Response.” Journal of Infectious Diseases189 (4):634–41. No country has a monopoly on ideas,and every country has Levine, R., and What Works Working Group with Molly Kinder. 2004. something important to contribute to knowledge about health. The universality of science requires that scientists everywhere Center for Global Development. strive for the highest level of rigor and quality and that every Mathers,C.,A.Lopez,C.Stein,D.Ma Fat,R.Chalapati,M.Inoue,and country have some sustainable level of scientific research and others.2005.“Death and Disease Burden by Cause:Global Burden of Disease Estimates for 2001 by World Bank Country Groups.”Disease problem-solving capacity.Encouraging and supporting scien- Control Priorities Project Working Paper No.18.Fogarty International tists with the ability and passion to contribute to
