NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: alprazolam, liver, injury, liver injury, benzodiazepines, drug, induced, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, induced liver, weeks, case, acute liver, normal


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Alprazolam. [Updated 2023 Jun 22]. Bookshelf URL: Alprazolam Updated: June 22, 2023. OVERVIEW Introduction Alprazolam is an orally available benzodiazepine used predominantly for therapy of anxiety. As with most benzodiazepines, alprazolam t has not been associated with serum aminotransferase or alkaline phosphatase elevations during therapy, and clinically apparent liver injury from alprazolam has been reported but is very rare. Background Alprazolam (al pra' zoe lam) is a benzodiazepine that is widely used in the therapy of anxiety and panic disorder. The antianxiety (anxiolytic) activity of the benzodiazepines is mediated by their ability to enhance gamma- aminobutyric acid (GABA) mediated inhibition of synaptic transmission through binding to the GABA A receptor. Alprazolam was approved in the United States in 1981, and is currently the most commonly used oral benzodiazepine, with more than 16 million prescriptions filled yearly. Current indications are for anxiety and panic disorders. Alprazolam is available in multiple generic forms and under several brand names such as Xanax and Niravam in tablets of 0.25, 0.5, 1 and 2 mg, as well as in orally disintegrating tablets in similar concentrations and as an oral solution [1 mg/mL] for pediatric use. Extended release forms are available in tablets of 0.25, 0.5, 1, and 2 mg. The recommended initial dose for adults is 0.5 mg three times daily, increasing as needed to a maximum dose of 4 mg daily in divided doses. Higher doses are used for panic disorder. The most common side effects of alprazolam are dose related and include drowsiness, lethargy, ataxia, dysarthria and dizziness. Tolerance develops to these side effects, but tolerance may also develop to the anxiolytic effect s. Alprazolam like all oral benzodiazepines has a boxed warning in its product label stressing (1) the risks of severe sedation and potentially fatal respiratory depression when combined with opiates, (2) with prolonged use, the risks of abuse, misuse, and addiction which can lead to overdose and death, and (3) with continued use, the risks of physical and psychological dependence and severe potentially life-threatening withdrawal symptoms if discontinued suddenly. Benzodiazepines are all categorized as Schedule IV controlled substances, having potential for dependence, tolerance, and abuse. Hepatotoxicity Alprazolam, like other benzodiazepines, is rarely associated with serum ALT or alkaline phosphatase elevations, and clinically apparent liver injury from alprazolam is extremely rare, considering the frequency of
