NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: alprazolam, liver, injury, liver injury, benzodiazepines, drug, induced, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, induced liver, weeks, case, acute liver, normal


abuse. Hepatotoxicity Alprazolam, like other benzodiazepines, is rarely associated with serum ALT or alkaline phosphatase elevations, and clinically apparent liver injury from alprazolam is extremely rare, considering the frequency of its use. There have been a few case reports of acute liver injury from alprazolam, and recurrence on reexposure has been reported. In alprazolam-related cases of acute liver injury, the latency has been within a few weeks and the typical pattern of liver enzyme elevations has been cholestatic or mixed (Case 1). The injury was usually mild-to- moderate in severity and self-limited in course. Fever and rash have not been described nor has autoantibody 2 LiverTox formation. Similar rare cases of self-limited, mild-to-moderate, cholestatic liver injury have been reported with other benzodiazepines including chlordiazepoxide, clonazepam, diazepam, flurazepam, lorazepam, and triazolam. Likelihood score: D (possible rare cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Injury Alprazolam is metabolized by the liver via the cytochrome P450 system, predominantly by CYP 3A4. Concurrent use of CYP 3A4 inhibitors, such as cimetidine or ketaconazole, can cause an increase in alprazolam plasma levels. The liver injury from the benzodiazepines is probably due to a rarely produced intermediate metabolite. Outcome and Management The case reports of hepatic injury due to benzodiazepines were followed by prompt and complete recovery upon stopping the medication, without evidence of residual or chronic injury. No cases of acute liver failure or chronic liver injury due to alprazolam have been described. There is little information about cross reactivity with other benzodiazepines, but some degree of cross sensitivity should be assumed, and patients with clinically apparent liver injury due to alprazolam should be monitored if they are switched to related agents. Drug Class: Benzodiazepines, Antianxiety Agents CASE REPORT Case 1. Mild acute liver injury due to alprazolam.(1) A 32 year old woman with a long history of panic attacks developed fatigue and abdominal pain 2 weeks a fter starting alprazolam (1 mg daily increasing to 8 mg daily), and she became jaundiced one week later. She had no history of liver disease and was known to have had normal serum liver tests before starting alprazolam. On examination, she was jaundiced but had no fever or rash. Laboratory results showed elevations in serum enzymes and bilirubin (Table). Tests for hepatitis A and B and for mononucleosis were negative. Alprazolam was stopped and diazepam (which she had received in the past) substituted. She improved rapidly
