NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: alprazolam, liver, injury, liver injury, benzodiazepines, drug, induced, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, induced liver, weeks, case, acute liver, normal


and bilirubin (Table). Tests for hepatitis A and B and for mononucleosis were negative. Alprazolam was stopped and diazepam (which she had received in the past) substituted. She improved rapidly and all tests were normal when she was seen one month after stopping alprazolam. Key Points Medication: Alprazolam (8 mg daily) Pattern: Cholestatic (R=1.8) Severity: 2+ (jaundiced) Latency: 2 weeks to symptoms, 3 weeks to jaundice Recovery: Complete in one month Other medications: None mentioned Laboratory Values Time After Time After ALT Alk P Bilirubin Other Starting Stopping (U/L) (U/L) (mg/dL) Pre Normal Normal Normal 3 weeks 0 156 241 2.6 Albumin 4.0 g/dL Alprazolam 3 Table continued from previous page. Time After Time After ALT Alk P Bilirubin Other Starting Stopping (U/L) (U/L) (mg/dL) 4 days 124 187 1.8 7 weeks 4 weeks Normal Normal Normal Normal Values <35 <95 <1.2 Comment A convincing case of alprazolam induced liver injury characterized by a mild cholestatic hepatitis arising 2 to 3 weeks after starting the medication and resolving rapidly with stopping. There were no signs of hypersensitivity. Interestingly, she tolerated other benzodiazepines without problems, indicating lack of cross sensitivity to the injury. PRODUCT INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE TRADE NAMES Alprazolam – Generic, Niravam®, Xanax® DRUG CLASS Benzodiazepines COMPLETE LABELING Product labeling at DailyMed, National Library of Medicine, NIH CHEMICAL FORMULA AND STRUCTURE DRUG CAS REGISTRY NUMBER MOLECULAR FORMULA STRUCTURE Alprazolam 28981-97-7 C17-H13-Cl-N4 4 LiverTox CITED REFERENCES 1. Judd FK, Norman TR, Marriott PF, Burrows GD. A case of alprazolam-related hepatitis. Am J Psychiatry. 1986;143:388–9. ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY References updated: 22 June 2023 Zimmerman HJ. Benzodiazepines. Psychotropic and anticonvulsant agents. In, Zimmerman HJ. Hepatotoxicity: the adverse effects of drugs and other chemicals on the liver. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1999, pp. 491-3. (Expert review of benzodiazepines and liver injury published in 1999; mentions rare instances of cholestatic hepatitis have been reported due to alprazolam, chlordiazepoxide, diazepam, flurazepam, and triazolam, and hepatocellular injury with clorazepate and clotiazepam, but no reports of hepatic injury with lorazepam, oxazepam or temazepam). Larrey D, Ripault MP. Anxiolytic agents. Hepatotoxicity of psychotropic drugs and drugs of abuse. In, Kaplowitz N, DeLeve LD, eds. Drug-induced liver disease. 3rd ed. Amsterdam: Elsevier, 2013, p. 455. (Review of sedative induced liver injury mentions that rare instances of acute liver injury [usually cholestatic] have been reported with alprazolam, bentazepam, clotiazepam, chlordiazepoxide, diazepam, flurazepam and triazolam; a hepatitis-like pattern has been reported with clonazepam and
