Hindawi
KEYWORDS: intestinal, activities, small, small intestinal, lactase, patients, vitro, disease, border, brush, brush border, coeliac, cells, activity, biopsy


2 JournalofImmunologyResearch lactase.CDisasecondaryDSdeficiencyasallDSarereduced commencingaGFD.Itisimportanttonotethedifferent due to gluten-induced injury to the small intestinal mucosa responses between the DS and a GFD; marked increase of . alpha glucosidases activities occurs, whereas lactase activity Markedincrease ofDSactivitiesoccurs fourweeksafter remains low in many patients . Peña et al. demonstrated commencing a gluten-free diet (GFD), but their activities that response of lactase to a GFD is variable, sometimes are again reduced if coeliac patients revert to a normal diet showing full recovery in a few months, but sometimes .InpatientswithtreatedCD,intraduodenalinstilla- remaining depressed for years . The age of the patient is tion of gluten produces characteristic histological changes ofgreatimportanceintherateofrecoveryoflactaseactivity. andanassociatedmarkedreductionindisaccharidaseactivi- Patientsagedlessthan30yearsusuallyshowfullrecoveryin tieswithin3.5hours.ThereductionofDSactivitiescorre- the course of a few months, whereas most of the older lateswiththehistologicalgradeofthebiopsysuch patients show little or no recovery in this space of time . thatDScouldbeemployedasabiomarkerofCD. Persistenceoflowlactaseactivitiesdespitegoodhistological ThismanuscriptreviewsdifferentaspectsofDSactivities improvement has been demonstrated in other studies for in CD: their utility in the diagnosis and their application to somepatients,particularlyadults. in vitro toxicity testing. Furthermore, we describe recent Withtheexceptionoflactase,themeasurementofDS advances in small intestinal organoid techniques, including may provide a quantitative index of improvement of the coculturewithimmunecells,whichofferanexcitingoppor- small intestinal mucosa ; their increase correlates well tunity to develop state-of-the-art in vitro models for CD with the recovery of the mucosa based on small intestinal research. In this model, brush border enzymes could be biopsy histology . In addition to histological and sero- employedasmarkersofCDpathogenesis. logical follow-up, measurement of DS activities offers an additional potential tool to assess treatment of CD with a 2. Diagnostic Aspects of Small Intestinal GFD.Sucraseactivityisthebestindicatorofthemucosal response to a GFD. However, it is interesting to note that Disaccharidase Activities in CD even after two years’ treatment of CD with a GFD, sucrase ThegoldstandardforthediagnosisofCDandfollowingthe activityinthedistalduodenumdoesnotincreasetothelevel effect of GFD is the examination of duodenal biopsies in ofcontrols,althoughclinicaleffectsareobservedearlier. conjunctionwithCDserologyincludingtissuetransglutami- Generally, enzyme activities in the small intestinal mucosae nase. Measurement of DS activities provides additional of patients with CD in remission are lower than those of informationatthetimeofdiagnosisandduringfollow-upto controlgroupsmatchedforage,sex,andsiteofbiopsy. assess the response to a GFD . Furthermore, it has However, coeliac patients on a GFD have significantly been shown that determining DS activities might aid the increased levels of maltase and sucrase but limited increase diagnosis of CD where milder histological changes are in lactase activity compared with an untreated group . seen, including Marsh I and II abnormalities in small ItisworthwhilementioningthatastrictGFDisthetreatment intestinal biopsies . ofchoicenotonlyforCDbutalsoforCD-associatedsecond- aryDSdeficiencies. 2.1.PositiveandNegativePredictiveValuesofMucosalVillous Atrophy.Themeasurementofbrushborderenzymeactivities 2.3.DiagnosisofCDwithMarshI/IIScoreofSmallIntestinal offersanadditionalobjectivetooltoevaluatetheseverityofthe MucosalBiopsies(SubclinicalCD).Insmallintestinalmuco- histologicalabnormalitiesinuntreatedcoeliacpatients . sal biopsies with a Marsh score of I
