Hindawi
KEYWORDS: intestinal, activities, small, small intestinal, lactase, patients, vitro, disease, border, brush, brush border, coeliac, cells, activity, biopsy


seen, including Marsh I and II abnormalities in small ItisworthwhilementioningthatastrictGFDisthetreatment intestinal biopsies . ofchoicenotonlyforCDbutalsoforCD-associatedsecond- aryDSdeficiencies. 2.1.PositiveandNegativePredictiveValuesofMucosalVillous Atrophy.Themeasurementofbrushborderenzymeactivities 2.3.DiagnosisofCDwithMarshI/IIScoreofSmallIntestinal offersanadditionalobjectivetooltoevaluatetheseverityofthe MucosalBiopsies(SubclinicalCD).Insmallintestinalmuco- histologicalabnormalitiesinuntreatedcoeliacpatients . sal biopsies with a Marsh score of I and/or II, there is no Duodenal DS activities are good predictors of the grade of villous atrophy . Villous atrophy comprises only the mucosalvillousatrophyinCD.Positivepredictivevaluesfor end stage in the clinical course of the disease; CD develops moderateorseverevillousatrophyareasfollows: gradually from small-bowel mucosal inflammation to crypt hyperplasiaandfinallytovillousatrophy. (i) 90%formaltase(maltaseactivity<150U/gprotein) Milder biopsy changes that are limited to lymphocytic infiltration with or without crypt hyperplasia may require (ii) 86%forsucrase(<40U/gprotein) additionaldatainordertoincreasethecertaintyofadiagno- (iii) 71%forlactase(<20U/gprotein). sis of CD, as these histological changes are not exclusive to CD.ThediagnosisofCDmaybeenhancedbygenotyping Decreasedmaltaseandsucraseactivitiesthushaveahigh (HLA-DQ2 or HLA-DQ8); serological markers and positive predictive value for the degree of mucosal villous immunohistochemical staining of the γδ+ve intraepithelial atrophy. Predictive values of lactase activity are lower, lymphocytesfoundinpatientswithCDmayalsobeusedto probably due to the presence of primary lactase deficiency confirmthediagnosis. in coeliac patients. No patient with DS activities in the Damage to the microvilli may be one of the earliest normalrangeexhibitedseverevillousatrophy. gluten-inducedalterationsinCD.Therefore,biochemical changescanprecedehistologicalabnormalitiesoftheduode- 2.2. Mucosal Healing in CD with a Gluten-Free Diet (GFD). nal biopsy observed by light microscopy . Murray et al. It is well established that brush border enzyme activities reported diagnosing CD on repeat biopsy in 4 out of 37 are reduced in untreated coeliac patients. However, the (10.8%) patients who had no villous atrophy in their initial activities recoverduringremission,notablyfourweeksafter biopsy a few years earlier. However, these four patients had JournalofImmunologyResearch 3 decreased DS activities and minor histological changes Ethnicity affects DS values as demonstrated when (Marsh I or II) in their initial biopsy. Reduced DS activi- comparing African and Finish children with normal villous ties without villous atrophy may therefore represent early architecture; the former had lower activities of duodenal CD . lactase, sucrase, and maltase. About one-third of Finnish Mones et al. observed a marked reduction of DS children exhibit lactase activity below the established refer- activities in paediatric patients with CD whose histological ence range of 20U/g protein, as opposed to two-thirds of changes in their small intestinal biopsies scored as Marsh I Africanchildren. or II (with intact villi). A positive test for predicting CD SexdoesnotaffectanyoftheDSactivities.Agehasa was defined by the following cut-off values for individual significant effect on lactase activity only; it decreases with DSactivity:lactase, ≤15units/g protein; sucrase, ≤25units/g age. In some black children, lactase deficiency may develop protein; maltase, ≤100units/g protein; and palatinase,
