Hindawi
KEYWORDS: intestinal, activities, small, small intestinal, lactase, patients, vitro, disease, border, brush, brush border, coeliac, cells, activity, biopsy


individual significant effect on lactase activity only; it decreases with DSactivity:lactase, ≤15units/g protein; sucrase, ≤25units/g age. In some black children, lactase deficiency may develop protein; maltase, ≤100units/g protein; and palatinase, after the age of 3 years and is not associated with mucosal ≤5units/g protein. Diagnostic sensitivity ranged from 74% disease . to 85%, with the highest sensitivity observed for lactase. Circadian rhythm influences DS activities . In Diagnostic specificity ranged from 57% to 91%, with the addition,oscillationsofDSactivitiescorrelatetotherhythm highest specificity for sucrase. The positive predictive value offoodintake. of a DS deficiency to predict CD ranged from 70% to Patchymucosal changes thatcanoccur inCDaffectthe 91%. Negative predictive values (a normal DS level) ranged absolute values of DS activities found in biopsies. Jonsson from 72% to 76% to predict a biopsy not considered to be et al. demonstrated that there was approximately 30% CD.DSdeficiencyfoundinduodenalbiopsiesmaythere- coefficient of variation in DS activity of specimens taken foreaidthediagnosisofCDinbiopsieswithintactvilli.A fromtwositesintheduodenum. similarfindingwasreportedinanotherstudywhereevalua- tion ofDS activities provided evidence tosupport diagnosis 3.1.2. Exogenous Factors. Sucrose feeding is known to ofCDinsomepatients. increase the activity of sucrase-isomaltase. The increase is a result of de novo synthesis of the enzyme which reaches its 3. Research Aspects of Disaccharidase Activities peak (2.6-fold increase) 12 hours after starting a sucrose- containing diet . Degradation of the enzyme is in Coeliac Disease independentofthediet. DS activities in small intestinal mucosal biopsies can be Fasting hampers intestinal epithelial cell renewal. It determinedbytheDahlqvistmethod.Thetissueisincubated causes a reduction of small intestinal mass, villous size, and with the relevant disaccharide and liberated glucose deter- crypt enterocyte mitotic index. Carbohydrate deprivation mined by colorimetric assay using TRIS-glucose oxidase induces a fall in intestinal sucrase which is restored by reagent.UnitsofDSactivityareexpressedasmicromolesof carbohydratefeeding. disaccharide hydrolysed per minute per gram of mucosa The levels of DS also vary according to the site of (wetweight). biopsy . This applies not only to the longitudinal axis (duodenum-jejunum-ileum) in the small intestine but also 3.1. Factors Affecting Enzyme Activities. DS are reduced in to the crypt-villous axis. Since DS are embedded in micro- activecoeliacdisease.Theymaybereducedinotherconditions villi of villous enterocytes, their activity is dependent upon including inflammatory bowel disease, food allergy, dys- the number of villous enterocytes present in the biopsy pepsia, protein-energy malabsorption, immunodeficiencies, , so that the more superficial biopsies having a higher and infectious diseases (such as giardiasis, viral infections, epithelial content might have a higher DS content. and small intestinal bacterial overgrowth) . The decrease of DS activities can usually
