Hindawi
KEYWORDS: intestinal, activities, small, small intestinal, lactase, patients, vitro, disease, border, brush, brush border, coeliac, cells, activity, biopsy


higher and infectious diseases (such as giardiasis, viral infections, epithelial content might have a higher DS content. and small intestinal bacterial overgrowth) . The decrease of DS activities can usually be reversed by 3.2. Ex Vivo and In Vitro Methods for Studying Gluten successful treatment of the underlying disease. Interest- Toxicity in Coeliac Disease. There is no animal model ingly, DS can also be increased abnormally in diabetic reproducing all the features of coeliac disease . In vivo patients . A reduction of individual DS deficiencies is testing is the gold standard for assessing coeliac toxicity seen in primary DS deficiencies which include congenital .However,itiswellestablishedthatinvivoadminis- lactose intolerance, sucrase-isomaltase deficiency, maltase- tration of gluten can cause systemic injury to the patient. glucoamylase deficiency, and trehalase deficiency . Therefore, in vitro methods are usually employed before In healthy individuals, DS activities can show a broad invivostudiesareundertakenwhenassessingfoodstuffsfor range of absolute values . There are several endoge- lackofCDtoxicity. nousandexogenousfactorsthataffecttheiractivities. Themostreliableinvitromethodissmall-bowelmucosal biopsy culture often referred to as duodenal biopsy 3.1.1. Endogenous Factors. DS activities vary along the organ culture (OC). The method was originally described longitudinal axis (duodenum-jejunum-ileum) of the gut byBrowningandTrier.Thereissignificantrequirement . Lactase has maximum activities at 50–200cm from for preclinical in vitro studies, so the principle of Browning the ligament of Treitz and is almost absent in distal ileum. and Trier’s method has been further developed and applied Sucrase activities are constant along the small intestine. to testing probiotics that requires an apical stimulation of Maltase is twice as abundant in the distal ileum compared intestinal mucosal explants . OC enables various other tothatintheproximaljejunum. applications, for example, biochemical studies of synthesis 4 JournalofImmunologyResearch and processing of DS , dimeric assembly of DS , parameters in cultured biopsies with the exception of the and studying effects of insulin on elevated DS activities in AP activity which increased in practically all of the cases diabeticsubjects. . DS are probably more readily lost into the medium Browning and Trier’s original method has been modi- during culture than AP . fied so that the system detects harmful effects of gluten by adding it to culture medium and evaluating subsequent 3.2.2. Cell Models and Enzyme Activities. In addition to CD histological, morphological and immunological abnormali- patient small-bowel mucosa OC, researchers have used dif- ties. Modified Browning and Trier’s technique is still being ferent cell lines for in vitro studies of CD. Established cell widely used in studies that
