Hindawi
KEYWORDS: intestinal, activities, small, small intestinal, lactase, patients, vitro, disease, border, brush, brush border, coeliac, cells, activity, biopsy


OC, researchers have used dif- ties. Modified Browning and Trier’s technique is still being ferent cell lines for in vitro studies of CD. Established cell widely used in studies that examine CD pathogenesis modelsare based on gluten-sensitive T cell lines and clones and in testing for coeliac toxicity [39, 40, 45–47]. The OC isolated from individuals with CD, which are still being system has also been shown to be useful in aiding the widelyusedinscreeningforCDtoxicity.Signif- diagnosis of CD, mainly in cases without villous atrophy icant amounts of research have also been undertaken using or in seronegative patients . epithelial cell lines of cancerous origin which are rela- tively easy to grow. However, it is not established to what 3.2.1.EarlyWorkonSmallIntestinalOrganCultureandthe extentmalignanttransformationaffectstheirpossibledepen- Study of Brush Border Enzymes in CD. Enterocyte damage denceonsurroundingmicroenvironmentalinfluences.Ithas is the hallmark of coeliac disease . The toxic effect of beenshownthat,unlikenormalepithelialcells,coloncancer gluten on small intestinal mucosa was demonstrated bio- celllines do not require addition ofgrowth factors for their chemically by measuring the activity of the brush border expansion in vitro . In addition, Caco2 cells express enzyme alkaline phosphatase (AP) in OC. The activity considerably lower amounts of brush border enzymes in of AP obtained from biopsies of untreated CD patients comparisontonormalenterocytes. increased when the tissue was incubated in gluten-free BeforeSatoetal.publishedtheirbreakthroughdis- medium. This increase was inhibited by the presence of coveryonintestinalorganoids,enterocyteswerenotoriously gluten peptides in the culture medium demonstrating the difficulttogrowinvitro.Overdecades,manystudiesofnor- toxiceffectsofgluten. malgutepitheliumhavereporteddifficultiesinmaintaining KatzandFalchuksubsequentlyproposedtheuseof cultureofthesecellsformorethanafewdays(andref- thesmallintestinalOCtechniqueasapredictivetestforthe erencestherein)despiteemployingdifferentisolationproto- definitive diagnosis of gluten sensitivity. Twenty-two of 26 cols and subsequent culture conditions. It was thought for patients diagnosed with CD had shown gluten sensitivity manyyearsthatlong-termculturesfromprimaryhumantis- invitroontheirinitialbiopsies.AriseinAPactivityofintes- suecouldnotbeestablishedunlessthecellsweregenetically tinaltissuefromthese22patientswasinhibitedbythepres- transformed. It was also discovered that disruption of the ence of gluten peptides in the medium. The false-negative interactionsbetweennormalepithelialcellsandsurrounding rate for establishing the diagnosis of CD was therefore 15% extracellularmatrixinducesapoptosisofthecells. (4 of 26). In their study, there were also 14 patients with Quaronietal.,however,managedtoestablishalong- abnormalmucosawhowereshownnottohaveCD.Thirteen term culture of rat small intestinal epithelial cells. Their of them did not show gluten sensitivity in vitro (a false- initial approach for isolation was that used in OC, but positive rate of 7%). All patients with normal biopsies were cultured epithelial cells had the features of undifferentiated classified correctly. These exciting results suggested that small intestinal crypt cells. Poor differentiation levels of smallintestinalorganculturecouldbeusedfortheprospec- cultured enterocytes in vitro were reported in other studies tive diagnosis of CD. In another study, Falchuk et al. using human, mouse, rat, and bovine intestinal biopsies
