Hindawi
KEYWORDS: intestinal, activities, small, small intestinal, lactase, patients, vitro, disease, border, brush, brush border, coeliac, cells, activity, biopsy


required for many patients. Hence, the biopsy tionwithmesenchymeandotherconstituents. material will become scarce. However, intestinal organoids Long-termculturesofnormalprimaryhumanepithelial canalsobegeneratedfromembryonicstemcellsorinduced cells isolated from the small intestine are now well estab- pluripotent stem cells ( and references therein) which, lished. Human epithelial “mini-guts” can be grown from although they take longer to establish and are technically intestinal crypts and single stem cells . It is possible more demanding and costly as opposed to biopsy-derived to propagate the organoid cultures in vitro that are derived organoids,cangreatlyscaleupthenumbersofresultingorga- frommouseaswellashumanintestine.Theseorga- noids and allow the clinical material instead to be used for noidscanbegrownindefinitelyanddisplayallhallmarksof raisingtheimmunecells. the small intestinal epithelium in terms of architecture, cell types,andself-renewalcharacteristics. 3.2.4. Relevance of Intestinal Organoid Work and Brush Sato et al. defined the conditions that promoted Border Enzymes to the Development of State-of-the-Art In organoidproliferationanddifferentiation.Stemcellsaswell Vitro Methods for CD Research. It is well established that asorganoids neededto beembedded inMatrigel which is a innate and adaptive immune responses are triggered in CD laminin- and collagen-rich matrix that mimics the basal pathogenesis ; however, the exact sequence of these lamina.Humansmallintestinalcultureismorecomplexthan pathological events have not been elucidated to date. Orga- that of mouse intestine. In addition to R-spondin, Noggin, noid technology, however, allows sequential addition of the and epidermal growth factor, the human-optimised culture cellsintothecoculture,therebyenablingthestudyofinnate conditions require more supplements (Wnt3A, gastrin, immune response by reconstituting coeliac organoids and nicotinamide,inhibitorofAlk,andinhibitorofp38).Differ- IELs separately from the effects of an adaptive immune entiation of cultured human small epithelial organoids into response. In turn, gluten-specific T cells, which can also be different cell types of the intestine requires certain supple- grown in vitro, can then be included in this in vitro model mentstobewithdrawn(Wnt3,nicotinamide,andp38inhib- ofCDinordertofacilitatethefulltoxiceffectsofglutenon itor). A differentiation marker for mature enterocytes was theintestinalepithelium. visualised by brush border AP staining . In another Organoidtechnologyalsoenableselucidationoftherole study, Middendorp et al. also omitted certain culture of enterocytes in the processing of gliadin peptides in CD. supplements to achieve small intestinal differentiation of Enterocytes have the capacity to function as antigen- human organoids. Interestingly though, visualisation of presenting cells, whereby T cell stimulation is mediated by mature enterocytes by sucrase-isomaltase staining worked their HLA-DR molecules . Further, gliadin contains well for ileal organoids but not for duodenal. Expression of peptides that can trigger innate immune response . lactase was induced in both ileal and duodenal organoids Interestingly, the gluten peptide that triggers innate immu- byso-calleddifferentiationmedium. nity in coeliac disease is processed differently within the enterocytecomparedtothosetriggeringanadaptiveimmune 3.2.3. Recent Advances
