Hindawi
KEYWORDS: intestinal, activities, small, small intestinal, lactase, patients, vitro, disease, border, brush, brush border, coeliac, cells, activity, biopsy


was induced in both ileal and duodenal organoids Interestingly, the gluten peptide that triggers innate immu- byso-calleddifferentiationmedium. nity in coeliac disease is processed differently within the enterocytecomparedtothosetriggeringanadaptiveimmune 3.2.3. Recent Advances in Intestinal Organoid Methods. response,inwhichthepeptidesreachHLA-DRpositivelate Organoid technology might have applications in regenera- endosomes and are presented to lamina propria T cells tive therapy for some gut diseases through ex vivo expan- . Since damage to the enterocytes’ brush border is one sion of the intestinal epithelia and transplantation . of the earliest alterations in CD, DS might be used to study This methodology also enables in vitro propagation of dis- thetoxiceffectsofgluteninCD.Itisimportanttonotethat eased gastrointestinal tissues which might elucidate the brushborderenzymesareanintegralpartofmaturevillous disease pathogenesis and development of therapies . enterocytes and are quantitatively associated with their Intestinal organoids have already been used to model differentiation . DS activity may, however, not correlate monogenic diseases that affect the epithelium, inflamma- with the viability of enterocytes as the brush border tory bowel disease (looking into cell death, mucosal enzyme activities have been demonstrated in nonviable integrity, and effects of inflammatory cytokines), and epithelialcells.Hence,theimmunostainingormorepre- interactions between intestinal tissues and microbes as well ciselythelackofimmunostainingforbrushborderenzymes as cancer ( and references therein). CD research lags duetomicrovillidestructionratherthantheiractivitiescould behind these advances. It is well established that there beusedasamarkerofCDpathogenesis. are many cell types involved in CD pathogenesis and as Organoid technology has a substantial potential for dis- such, organoids lack many of the cellular types present ease modelling and therefore elucidating the sequence 6 JournalofImmunologyResearch ofpathogenic eventsinCDinwhichbrushborder enzymes C.Catassi,J.C.Bai,B.Bonazetal.,“Non-celiacglutensensitiv- may be utilised. New in vitro models based on recent ity: the new frontier of gluten related disorders,” Nutrients, advancesinstemcellresearchmayfacilitatethedevelopment vol.5,no.10,pp.3839–3853,2013. ofnewtherapeuticstrategiesinCD. Y.Junker,S.Zeissig,S.J.Kimetal.,“Wheatamylasetrypsin inhibitorsdriveintestinalinflammationviaactivationoftoll- like receptor 4,” The Journal of Experimental Medicine, 4. Conclusions vol.209,no.13,pp.2395–2408,2012. D. H. Shmerling, S. Auricchio, A. Rubino, B. Hadorn, and Thestructureofthesmallintestinalmucosaandthephysio- A. Prader, “Der sekundare Mangel an intestinaler Disac- logical processes involved are very complex. CD increases charidaseaktivitat bei der Coliakie,” Helvetica Paediatrica thiscomplexity,affectingmanycomponentsoftheintestine Acta, vol. 19, pp. 507–527, 1964. includingDS.DespitethefactthatDSactivitiesusedtoplay A.S.Peña,S.C.Truelove,andR.Whitehead,“Disaccharidase animportantroleinaidingthediagnosisofCD,application activityandjejunalmorphologyincoeliacdisease,”TheQuar- ofDSactivitiestoinvitroresearchinCDremainstobeestab- terlyJournalofMedicine,vol.41,no.164,pp.457–476,1972. lished. The recent advances in ex vivo growth of epithelial J. Mercer, M. E. Eagles, and I. C. Talbot, “Brush border “mini-guts” provide an exciting new platform that has enzymesincoeliacdisease:histochemicalevaluation,”Journal becomeavailable.Itenablesapplicationstostudynormalor ofClinicalPathology,vol.43,no.4,pp.307–312,1990. diseased epithelium with tissue engineering. Epithelial cells K.K.Prasad,B.R.Thapa,C.K.Nain,A.K.Sharma,andK. grow and differentiate under defined conditions which Singh, “Brush border enzyme activities in relation to include the presence of an extracellular matrix and growth histological lesion in pediatric celiac disease,” Journal of
