Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


malignancies, and liver-related out- andhealth-policymakersfromEuropeandworldwidein comes, including liver failure and hepatocellular carci- the decision-making process, by providing evidence- noma (HCC). Therefore, the high socio-economic based data, which also takes into consideration the burden of MASLD poses a global health challenge burden of clinical management for the healthcare sys- that needs to be addressed by medical societies and tem. The recommendations are intended to guide policymakers . clinical practice in circumstances where all possible MASLDisdefinedasthepresenceofexcesstriglyceride resourcesandtherapiesareavailable.Thus,usersshould storage in the liver in the presence of at least one car- adapt the recommendations to their local regulations, diometabolic risk factor. The term MASLD comprises availabilityofresources,infrastructure,andcost-benefit different conditions, including isolated liver steatosis strategies. (metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver, MASL), metabolicdysfunction-associatedsteatohepatitis(MASH), aswellasfibrosisandcirrhosis.MASHischaracterisedby Preamble histological features of hepatocellular ballooning and lobularinflammation.MASLDreplacestheoldtermnon- The nomenclature of SLD and definition of MASLD alcoholicfattyliver disease(NAFLD)andisembeddedin wereestablishedinJune2023,followinganinternational, the new consensus definition of steatotic liver disease multi-societyguidedDelphiprocess.Thediagnosisof (SLD). Besides MASLD, SLD also includes MASLD with MASLD requires the presence of at least one car- moderate (increased) alcohol intake (MetALD), alcohol- diometabolic risk factor in an individual with docu- relatedliverdisease(ALD),specificaetiologiesofSLD(e.g. mented steatosis. This has raised concerns as to whether drug-induced, monogenic diseases) and cryptogenic SLD evidence generated under the NAFLD definition would (Fig. 1) . still apply to individuals with MASLD. Several re- The current Clinical Practice Guidelines (CPGs) for examinations from existing cohort studies support that the diagnosis, treatment, and follow-up of individuals NAFLD-related findings can be fully extrapolated to withMASLDhavebeengeneratedasajointeffortbythe individuals with MASLD. As an example, analyses of a European Association for the Study of the Liver (EASL), large tertiary care NAFLD cohort and the population- European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD) based Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANESIII) data and European Association for the Study of Obesity found a nearly complete overlap between NAFLD and (EASO). They update the multi-society NAFLD CPG MASLD populations, with 99.8% accordance in the released in 2016 . NAFLD cohort, while only 5.3% of individuals with Intensified research efforts in recent years have sig- NAFLD in the NHANESIII database did not fulfil the physiology and natural course of the disease. This has were almost identical, and non-invasive tests showed culminated in improved diagnostic tools and novel equal accuracy and cut-offs for both definitions . Fi- therapeutic options, which is reflected in the expanded nally, long-term follow-up showed similar mortality scope of the current CPG. The availability of improved rates,withslightlyhighermortalityinMASLDcompared treatment options underlines the need to identify
