Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


randomised, retrospective) 3 Non-randomisedcontrolledcohort/follow-upstudy/control Furtherresearch(ifperformed)islikelytohaveanimpact arm of randomised trial (systematic review is generally onourconfidenceintheestimateofbenefitandriskand better than an individual study) may change the estimate 4 Case-series, case-control, or historically controlled studies (systematic review is generally better than an individual study) 5 Expert opinion (mechanism-based reasoning) Any estimate of effect is uncertain *Levelmaybegradeddownbasedonstudyquality,imprecision,indirectness(studydoesnotmatchquestions),becauseof inconsistencybetweenstudies,orbecausetheabsoluteeffectsizeisverysmall;Levelmaybegradedupifthereisalargeorvery large effect size. search.ThelevelsofevidenceweredevelopedbyapplyingtheOxford Recommendations Centre for Evidence-based Medicine system (Table 1) . The (cid:129) The incidental finding of steatosis should prompt strength of recommendations reflects the quality (grade) of under- assessment of the potential aetiology of SLD, lying evidence (Table 2). The committee members submitted con- tributionstospecificPICOquestions,whichwereintegratedintothe alongsidetestsforthepresenceofadvancedfibrosis, finaldocumentanddiscussedbetweenthepanelmemberstoachieve as this could determine the risk of liver-related unanimousconsensusforeachoftherecommendations.TheWilson and/or cardiovascular outcomes and appropriate and Jungner criteria served as a framework for evaluating the ap- care (LoE 3, strong recommendation, strong propriateness and effectiveness of screening programs and the im- consensus). plementation of population-based screening initiatives . In cases (cid:129) MASLD, ALD and MetALD are the most common wherethecommitteedeterminedguidancetobenecessarydespitea causes of SLD, but other causes such as drug-induced lack of available supporting literature, a recommendation was de- velopedbasedonexpertopinionandconsensus. liverdiseaseandmonogenicSLDshouldbeconsidered, ThedraftstatementsandrecommendationsoftheCPGpanelwere depending on the context (LoE 3, strong recom- thensenttotheDelphipanelforconsensusagreement.Allsuggestions mendation, strong consensus). and recommendations reached the threshold of 75% agreement, but (cid:129) General population-based screening for SLD is not somequestions,recommendationsandstatementswereadjustedfol- lowingwell-justifiedcommentsbytheDelphipanel.Theprocessin- advised (LoE 3, strong recommendation, strong volvedmultipleroundsofquestioningandfeedbackuntilaconsensus consensus). or convergence of opinions was achieved, and the feedback was in- corporatedintothefinalconsensusrecommendationsandstatements. Statement Thestrengthofconsensuswasdefinedaccordingtothepercentageof (cid:129) While the presence of steatotic liver in the general pop- agreementbytheDelphipanelmemberswhere≥95%agreementwas ulation is not independently associated with liver-related classifiedasstrongconsensusand75-95%wereclassifiedasconsensus. outcomes, the stage of liver fibrosis and persistently ele- Neutralvoteswerenotcountedwhencalculatingtheconsensus. vated liver enzymes are associated with liver-related out- comes (LoE 3, strong consensus). Definition, Prevalence and Natural Course HepaticsteatosisisthehallmarkofMASLD,definedas the presence of hepatic steatosis in conjunction with at Is the presence of steatotic liver in the general pop- least one cardiometabolic risk factor (Table 3) and no ulation an important factor in identifying individuals at other discernible cause. MASLD and ALD (alcohol riskforliver-relatedoutcomes,independentofthepresence intake >50 g/day for females and >60 g/day for males) of other hepatotoxic factors? comprise the most common causes of SLD. A new EASL-EASD-EASOGuidelinesonthe ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 377 ManagementofMASLD DOI: Table3.Cardiometabolic risk factors in the definition of MASLD Metabolic risk factor Adult criteria Overweight or Obesity Body mass index ≥25 kg/m2 (≥23 kg/m2 in people of Asian ethnicity) Waist circumference (cid:129) ≥94 cm in men and ≥80 cm in women (Europeans) (cid:129) ≥90 cm
