Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


in females. However, individuals with MASLD and EASL-EASD-EASOGuidelinesonthe ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 379 ManagementofMASLD DOI: normal aminotransferase levels can still have significant risk in biopsy-proven MASLD . Fibrosis pro- steatohepatitisanddevelopadvancedfibrosisorcirrhosis gressioninturnismostlyinfluencedbyolderage(though andtheriskofliver-relatedoutcomes,i.e.mortality, this may be more related to duration of exposure), post- hospitalisation, and HCC is increased with worsening of menopausal state, Hispanic ethnicity, the presence and liver fibrosis . severity of cardiometabolic risk factors, as well as envi- While MASLD is not associated with liver-related out- ronmental and genetic factors . While the strongest comesinthegeneralpopulation,itmaybeassociatedwith modifiable factor (alcohol) and genetic background are an increased risk of extrahepatic outcomes (hazard ratio discussed later, this section will focus on the relative [HR]1.34),andtheriskincreaseswiththenumberof impact of cardiometabolic comorbidities on the pro- cardiometabolic risk factors . Although some studies gression to cirrhosis and its complications (ascites, he- indicated a higher risk of cardiovascular disease-related patic encephalopathy, oesophageal varices bleeding) mortality (HR 1.30) , others did not confirm this including HCC. result in the general population, but only in those with MASLD is closely linked to and often precedes the biopsy-proven MASH or other risk factors like T2D developmentofcardiometabolicriskfactors,inparticular . Normal-weight individuals with SLD have a higher T2D . Conversely, having several cardiometabolic mortalityriskdespitehavingalowerincidenceofcirrhosis risk factors confers a greater risk of progressive liver andT2D,whiletheincidenceofcardiovasculardiseaseand damage and major adverse liver outcomes . Age cancer is similar . Overall, individuals with MASLD (>50 years), insulin resistance and multiple car- have a higher risk of non-fatal cardiovascular disease (HR diometabolic risk factors all increase the probability of 1.40) , coronary heart disease (odds ratio [OR] 1.33) MASH, severe fibrosis/cirrhosis and both overall and ,heartfailure(OR1.5),chronickidneydisease(HR liver-related mortality . Nevertheless, the relative 1.43),T2Danddiabetes-relatedperipheralpolyneuropathy impactofeachcardiometabolicriskfactorisnotthesame: (HRs 2.19 and 2.48, respectively) and obstructive sleep obesity and particularly T2D are the most important apnoea (OSA, HR 2.22) . determinants of the risk of cirrhosis and HCC. Fur- In the general population, MASLD is not associated thermore, MASLD is impacted by socioeconomic ineq- withincreasedoverallcancer-relatedmortality,butit uities, which are related to greater obesity prevalence, is associated with higher risk of HCC and certain extra- lower nutritional quality and lower physical activity hepatic cancers, mostly thyroid and gastrointestinal . [37–39]. Which risk factors and comorbidities have the greatest Obesity impact on the natural history of the hepatic disease The presence, duration and severity of obesity are including hepatocellular carcinoma in MASLD? associatedwithanincreasedriskofdiseaseprogression in MASLD. According to the WHO, body mass index Statements (BMI) cut-offs of 25-29.9 kg/m2 and ≥30 kg/m2
