Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


duration and severity of obesity are including hepatocellular carcinoma in MASLD? associatedwithanincreasedriskofdiseaseprogression in MASLD. According to the WHO, body mass index Statements (BMI) cut-offs of 25-29.9 kg/m2 and ≥30 kg/m2 define (cid:129) Type 2 diabetes and obesity (particularly abdominal overweight and obesity, respectively, in non-Asians obesity) are the metabolic diseases with the strongest , while BMI cut-offs are lower for Asians (23- impact on the natural history of MASLD, including 24.9 kg/m2 for overweight and ≥25 kg/m2 for obesity) progression to MASLD/MASH-related advanced fi- (see Table 3]. Visceral fat distribution, i.e. ab- brosis,cirrhosis andhepatocellularcarcinoma (LoE 2, dominal obesity, mediates the majority of the car- strong consensus). diometabolic risk . Waist circumference is a crude (cid:129) Males aged >50 years, postmenopausal women, and index of abdominal obesity and visceral fat accumu- individuals with multiple cardiometabolic risk factors lation, although the definition of cut-offs is sex- and are at increased risk of progressive fibrosis and the population-dependent . The current cut-offs developmentofcirrhosisanditscomplications(LoE2, of ≥94 cm in men and ≥80 cm in women for Cauca- strong consensus). sians (and adjusted for other ethnicities) are associated Compared to matched control populations, individ- with an increased cardiometabolic risk and uals with MASLD have increased all-cause mortality of increased risk for MASLD. 17.05/1,000 PY (range 10.31–28.05). In individuals with Prospective studies with paired liver biopsies showed MASH,liver-relatedmortalityisashighas25.6/1,000PY that weight gain of >5 kg, higher insulin resistance and (range, 6.3–103.8) , with fibrosis stage being the morepronouncedhepaticsteatosisduringfollow-upwere strongest predictor for liver-related mortality and HCC associated with the progression of fibrosis . In the 380 ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 EASL/EASD/EASO DOI: Million Women Study, the adjusted relative risk of cir- Different subtypes/endotypes/clusters of T2D are rhosis increased by 1.3 for each 5-unit rise in BMI of associated with different risks of disease progression women followed-up for 6.2 years . ,withparticularlyhighriskforMASLD/MASH Overweightorobesityinindividualswithcompensated progression in those individuals with severe insulin cirrhosis at baseline are associated with a higher risk of resistance.Simpleclinicalvariablescanbeusedto portal pressure and underlying aetiology of liver disease .Furthermore,obesityisassociatedwithasignificantly Such pathophysiological heterogeneity can already be increased risk of HCC development and HCC-related observed in individuals before the onset of T2D . mortality . This association was found in persons Ofnote,theeffectofT2DonHCCriskisnotuniqueto withcryptogeniccirrhosisandalcohol-relatedcirrhosisbut MASLD but also extends to other aetiologies. not in individuals with liver diseases of other aetiologies .Theearlyonsetofobesityhasameaningfulimpacton Hypertension and Dyslipidaemia thedevelopmentofHCC,asshowninacase-controlstudy Individuals with MASLD have a high rate of dysli- comparing622individualswithnewlydiagnosedHCCand pidaemia as well as hypertension . Hypertension per 660healthycontrols,whereobesityinearlyadulthoodwas sehasbeenassociatedwithfibrosisprogressioninalarge
