Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


liver diseases of other aetiologies .Theearlyonsetofobesityhasameaningfulimpacton Hypertension and Dyslipidaemia thedevelopmentofHCC,asshowninacase-controlstudy Individuals with MASLD have a high rate of dysli- comparing622individualswithnewlydiagnosedHCCand pidaemia as well as hypertension . Hypertension per 660healthycontrols,whereobesityinearlyadulthoodwas sehasbeenassociatedwithfibrosisprogressioninalarge associated with HCC development . meta-analysis and in a large retrospective study of 271,906 individuals with MASLD; those with both hy- Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2D) pertensionanddyslipidaemiahada1.8-foldhigherriskof The presence and duration of T2D is the major progressiontocirrhosisorHCCcomparedtoindividuals determinant of fibrosis progression and HCC devel- with no cardiometabolic risk factor . opmentinpeoplewithMASLD.MASLDishighly prevalent in individuals with T2D , and T2D is Impact of Multiple Cardiometabolic Risk Factors associated with an increased risk of liver fibrosis, as- TheriskofdiseaseprogressionandHCCclearlyincreases sessed by vibration-controlled transient elastography inthepresenceofmultiplemetabolicriskfactors.Inalarge (VCTE) and/or magnetic resonance (MR)-based US cohort, individuals with only one cardiometabolic risk techniques , or with the prevalence of advanced factor (e.g., hypertension, dyslipidaemia, or obesity) had a (F3-F4) fibrosis on histology in biopsy-proven low risk of progression to cirrhosis or HCC, but each ad- MASLD/MASH, ranging from 30 to 38% . ditionalmetabolictraitledtoastepwiseincreaseinthisrisk, Furthermore,inastudyon447adultparticipantswith with T2D having the strongest association . In a MASLD and paired liver biopsies >1 year apart, in- population-based study , the cumulative incidence of dividuals with T2D had a significantly higher cumu- moderate-to-advancedliverfibrosisestimatedbyVCTEwas lative incidence of fibrosis progression at 4 years (24% 2.8%and1.9%,respectively,overamedianperiodofaround vs. 20%), 8 years (60% vs. 50%), and 12 years (93% vs. 4years.ThisincidencewashigherinMASLD(7.1%forliver 76%) (p <0.005), with an adjusted HR of 1.69 (95% stiffnessmeasurement[LSM]≥8.0kPaand5%forLSM≥9.2 confidence interval [CI], 1.17–2.43; p <0.005) on kPa)anddysglycaemia(6.2%forLSM≥8.0kPaand4.7%for multivariate analysis . LSM ≥9.2 kPa) subgroups. In the global cohort, dysgly- Inaddition,T2Disalsoassociatedwithpooroutcomesin caemia, abdominal obesity and atherogenic dyslipidaemia individuals with biopsy-proven MASH and compensated wereindependentdeterminantsofprogressiontomoderate- cirrhosis, including a 4-fold increased risk of death and an to-advanced liver fibrosis. approximately 2-fold increased risk of liver-related out- comes,including HCC, over amedian follow-up of 5years ObstructiveSleepApnoea(OSA)andPolycysticOvary .Anotherstudyreporteda4-foldincreasedriskofHCC Syndrome (PCOS) in individuals with T2D and MASH-related cirrhosis fol- Both OSA and PCOS are associated with MASLD, lowed for 47 months . T2D was also found to be the andseveralstudiessuggestOSAisalsoassociatedwith strongest independent risk factor for the development of more advanced MASLD/MASH histology , HCC in a large European population-based study that in- while only one study reported an association between cluded 136,703 individuals with MASLD and a low preva- PCOS and MASH severity or advanced fibrosis . lence of advanced fibrosis as assessed by FIB-4 . Fur- However, the available evidence does not support a thermore,theHRforHCCsignificantlyincreasedfrom1.07 strong effect of OSA and
