Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


an adverse effect on the natural with uncertainties around the amounts of alcohol con- course of liver disease? sumed.Whileearlierstudiesfoundthatanylevelof (cid:129) Accumulating evidence shows that alcohol consump- particularly because of increased cancer incidence, more tion and metabolic risk factors have modifying effects recent analyses from the Global Burden of Disease Study on the onset and progression of chronic liver disease have nuanced that interpretation . The impact of al- which are independent and can be synergistic (LoE 2, coholconsumptiondependsonbackgrounddiseaserates, strong consensus). which vary byregion,age, sex,and year. In youngadults, 382 ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 EASL/EASD/EASO DOI: thresholds of healthy alcohol consumption are close to . Alcohol consumption may also increase the risk of zero. In older populations facing a high burden of car- HCCinpersonswithobesity,withasynergisticinteraction diovascular disease , small amounts of alcohol con- even after adjustment for multiple carcinogenic con- sumption are associated with improved health outcomes founders.Theinteractionofalcoholwithmetabolicrisk . Even if the validity of the J-shaped relative risk factorsincreasestheriskofHCC.Finally,theevidence curvehasbeendebated,thesefindingssuggestthat for cardiovascular protection is conflicting in individuals the population-average risk is a synthesis of risks for di- with MASLD , with a documented lack of protection versehealthoutcomes(e.g.heartdisease,cancer,injuries), towardssubclinicalatheroscleroticmarkersorlesions. which have differently shaped risk relationships with al- Very few data are available specifically for MASLD- cohol consumption, and are more or less relevant to related cirrhosis. In a large series of individuals with different sociodemographic groups . Moreover, pat- alcohol-related cirrhosis, even comparatively low levels of terns of drinking are an important consideration since consumption (1-6 glasses per week) were associated with irregular heavy drinking and binge drinking might offset reducedoverallsurvivalandincreasedoccurrenceofhepatic protectiveeffects,inparticularforcoronaryarterydisease decompensation, thus supporting total abstinence in indi- ,andhavebeenshowntobeanindependentriskfactor vidualswithcompensatedcirrhosis.Inaretrospective for liver-specific outcomes . longitudinal study of 195 individuals with MASH-related Equallyimportantmaybethepossiblesynergybetween cirrhosis, alcohol consumption was an independent pre- alcohol consumption and the presence of metabolic risk dictor of HCC occurrence . Any level of alcohol factors for liver disease progression , with the consumption,includingsocialdrinking,wasassociatedwith strongest effect for central obesity . This corroborates anincreasedriskofHCCdevelopmentvs.abstinence. older findings of BMI as an independent risk factor for Conversely,obesityincreasestheriskofHCCinindividuals fibrosisinindividualswithALD.Afteradjustmentfor with alcohol-related cirrhosis . Therefore, we recom- different confounders, the increased risk of liver-related mend discouraging alcohol consumption in all individuals mortality in overweight or obese men starts at 15 drinks with SLD, particularly in those with moderate (4-7 drinks perweek(roughly30gofalcoholperday).Whilethis perweekforwomenor4-14drinksperweekformen)and supra-additive effect has been well documented at the high(>7drinksperweekforwomen,>14drinksperweek general population or cohort level, at the individual level for men) alcohol consumption. the relative contribution of alcohol vs.
