Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


perweek(roughly30gofalcoholperday).Whilethis perweekforwomenor4-14drinksperweekformen)and supra-additive effect has been well documented at the high(>7drinksperweekforwomen,>14drinksperweek general population or cohort level, at the individual level for men) alcohol consumption. the relative contribution of alcohol vs. metabolic risk factors cannot currently be predicted. This is a clear limitationwhenissuinggeneralrecommendationsforsafe Prevention levelsofalcoholconsumptioninindividualswithMASLD. In people with non-cirrhotic MASLD the evidence for Inthegeneralpopulationorhigh-riskgroups,cannon- lowormoderatealcoholconsumptionisconflicting.Earlier pharmacological measures be recommended to prevent cohortandcross-sectionalstudiesonindividualswithnon- the development of MASLD and its adverse complica- cirrhoticMASLDshowednoeffectorevenprotectiveeffects tions, including hepatocellular carcinoma? oflow-moderatealcoholconsumptiononoverallmortality, Recommendation MASLD and steatohepatitis [88–91]. However, this has (cid:129) In the general population, non-pharmacological mea- beenchallengedbyemergingdatafromlongitudinalstudies sures should be recommended to prevent the devel- . Hence, an emerging body of evidence now suggests opment of MASLD and its complications, including that any level of alcohol consumption, even within rec- hepatocellular carcinoma, and preventive measures ommended limits, is associated with worsening of liver shouldbereinforcedinhigh-riskgroups(LoE3,strong outcomesinMASLDandthatmoderatelevelsofalcoholare recommendation, strong consensus). associated with a doubling of incident liver disease . Recent meta-analyses found no protective effects against As outlined above, obesity and T2D are strong risk cirrhosis at any level of drinking when compared to long- factors for the development and progression of MASLD termabstainers.Inwomen,cirrhosisriskincreaseswith and are associated with liver-related outcomes including moderate alcohol consumption (starting at one to two HCC. In addition, an unhealthy diet and a sedentary drinks per day) and is higher when alcohol is consumed lifestyle increase the risk of MASLD. Therefore, there is dailyandoutsidemeals.However,inmen,thereis substantialpotentialtopreventMASLDthroughlifestyle some evidence for a threshold effect at higher daily levels, interventions. Observational prospective studies show althoughpreciseestimatesofthisthresholdarenotavailable aninverseassociationofMASLDdevelopmentwiththe EASL-EASD-EASOGuidelinesonthe ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 383 ManagementofMASLD DOI: Mediterranean diet or similar healthy dietary patterns normal liver enzymes, and/or radiological signs of , and a direct association with unhealthy hepatic steatosis (LoE 3, weak recommendation, patterns . Moreover, improved diet quality (see consensus). below) has been associated with a lower risk of new- (cid:129) Healthcare providers should look for MASLD with onset MASLD . Prospective studies have also liver fibrosis either in individuals with (A) type 2 shown that better adherence to healthy eating patterns diabetes or (B) abdominal obesity and ≥1 additional may decrease the risk of developing HCC [106–109]. metabolic risk factor(s) (Table 3] or (C) abnormal With regard to specific nutrients or foods, prospective liver function tests (LoE 3, strong recommendation, studiesshowedthatsugar-sweetenedbeveragesandred consensus). meat consumption (unprocessed and processed) were associatedwithanincreasedriskofdevelopingMASLD Statement (in a dose-dependent manner), , liver cancer (cid:129) Earlydiagnosisoffibrosisandsubsequentappropriate and liver disease-related mortality . management can potentially prevent progression to There
