Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


consensus). meat consumption (unprocessed and processed) were associatedwithanincreasedriskofdevelopingMASLD Statement (in a dose-dependent manner), , liver cancer (cid:129) Earlydiagnosisoffibrosisandsubsequentappropriate and liver disease-related mortality . management can potentially prevent progression to There is evidence that smoking is related to MASLD, cirrhosis and its complications and may justify liver fibrosis and liver cancer . Furthermore, physical screening in these populations at risk (LoE 3, strong activityisrelatedtoreducedriskofMASLD,HCCand consensus). liver-related mortality . Altogether, a healthy lifestyle In deciding whether a medical condition warrants hasbeenassociatedwithareducedriskofHCC. screening, the Wilson and Jungner criteria are often Thehighavailabilityoflow-cost,ultra-processed,high- applied . While there is no doubt that MASLD is sugar food and drinks, and the marketing thereof, have highly prevalent , the absolute risk of liver-related been identified as important factors in promoting obesity events from MASLD in the general population is very and associated diseases, including MASLD. Recognising low.Sofar,norandomised-controlledtrial(RCT) the potential of public policies to prevent obesity and has demonstrated that MASLD screening improves MASLD,wewouldliketoechotherecommendationslaid clinical outcomes in either the general population or out by the EASL-Lancet Liver Commission in 2021 . hospital setting. PublicmeasuresmayincludeaunifiedEuropeanapproach The natural history of MASLD is relatively well- in regulating unhealthy food and beverage marketing, defined, though there is substantial individual vari- subsidising the availability of high-quality healthy food, abilityindiseasetrajectories.Ittakesdecadesfor public educational programmes to increase food literacy MASLD to progress to cirrhosis and hepatic decom- pensation . The risk of future liver-related events food reformulations . Particularly front-of-package starts to increase at fibrosis stage 2 . Al- nutrition labelling may help enable people to make con- though HCC may develop in non-cirrhotic MASLD, scious food choices and judge the quality of food . cirrhosisremainsthekey risk factorforHCC .If one can prevent MASLD from progressing to cir- rhosis, theoretically most liver-related events can be Screening, Case-Finding, Diagnosis and Monitoring prevented. Various professional societies have recommended Should a policy of screening for MASLD at risk of fi- clinical care pathways with an emphasis on the use of broticdisease(orfibrosisprogression)inprimarycareor non-invasive tests (NITs) and the liaison between pri- atthenon-hepatologyspecialistlevelbeimplementedin mary care/non-hepatology and hepatology settings the general population or only in individuals with [125–128]. These pathways all start with simple fibrosis cardiometabolic risk factors? Which at-risk individuals should undergo case-finding scores comprising routine clinical and laboratory pa- for MASLD at risk of fibrotic disease (or fibrosis pro- rameters and should be practical in most settings. These testsshouldbeacceptabletomostindividualsandcanbe gression)intheprimarycare(orotherspecialty)setting to reduce hepatic complications of MASLD? performedrepeatedlyatanaffordablecost.ArecentRCT at general medical and diabetes clinics
