Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


of fibrotic disease (or fibrosis pro- rameters and should be practical in most settings. These testsshouldbeacceptabletomostindividualsandcanbe gression)intheprimarycare(orotherspecialty)setting to reduce hepatic complications of MASLD? performedrepeatedlyatanaffordablecost.ArecentRCT at general medical and diabetes clinics showed that au- Recommendations tomated fibrosis score calculation followed by reminder (cid:129) Healthcare providers may consider case-finding messages in the electronic health system could increase strategies for MASLD with liver fibrosis in individ- thereferralofindividualswithincreasedfibrosisscoresto uals with cardiometabolic risk factors (Table 3], ab- hepatologists for specific fibrosis testing (from 3% to 384 ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 EASL/EASD/EASO DOI: Fig.2.Proposed strategy for non-invasive assessment of the risk algorithm can also be applied in case of incident finding of for advanced fibrosis and liver-related outcomes in individuals steatosis.Thisstrategyisintendedtoidentifyindividualsatriskof with metabolic risk factors or signs of SLD. Individuals with (A) developing liver-related outcomes. ELF, enhanced liver fibrosis; T2Dor(B)abdominalobesityand≥1additionalcardiometabolic FIB-4,fibrosis-4index;GLP1RA,glucagon-likepeptide-1receptor risk factor(s) or (C) persistently elevated liver enzymes should agonist; MRE, magnetic resonance elastography; SLD, steatotic undergoamulti-stepdiagnosticprocess,asindicatedinthefigure, liver disease; SWE, shear wave elastography; VCTE, vibration- to identify individuals with MASLD and advanced fibrosis. The controlled transient elastography. 33%) . In individuals in whom life expectancy is There have been positive cost-effectiveness studies on determined by extrahepatic factors (e.g. advanced age, MASLD or fibrosis screening in the general population malignancies, advanced cardiovascular disease), case- ,andamongindividualsdiagnosedwithSLD, finding strategies for MASLD with fibrosis are not metabolicsyndrome,andT2D.However,one recommended. study modelling the primary care setting suggests that One key gap in screening or case-finding is how the screening with the NAFLD fibrosis score (NFS) is not diagnosismaychangediseasemanagementandimprove cost-effective.Likewise,anotherstudysuggeststhat clinical outcomes. One may argue that regardless of the screening by abdominal ultrasound followed by liver diagnosis of MASLD, healthcare providers should ad- biopsyisnotcost-effectiveinindividualswithT2D, vocate lifestyle changes in persons with metabolic risk though this approach deviates from usual practice. Im- with cirrhosis, surveillance for HCC and varices may care system and results on cost-effectiveness may not potentially improve outcomes. The introduction of easily be extrapolated to healthcare systems in European specific drug treatments for MASH, if able to reduce countries. progression to cirrhosis and/or prevent liver-related Finally, there is initial evidence that first-degree outcomes, will further tip the balance in favour of relatives of individuals with advanced liver fibrosis case-finding. due to MASLD are at increased risk of both MASLD EASL-EASD-EASOGuidelinesonthe ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 385 ManagementofMASLD DOI: (2- to 3-fold higher) and advanced liver fibrosis (~12- tobetested.Therefore,asmosttestsweredevelopedand fold higher), independently of metabolic risk factors validated in a referral centre setting, they should only be . usedinaprimarycaresettingwhenspecificallyvalidated for
