Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


(2- to 3-fold higher) and advanced liver fibrosis (~12- tobetested.Therefore,asmosttestsweredevelopedand fold higher), independently of metabolic risk factors validated in a referral centre setting, they should only be . usedinaprimarycaresettingwhenspecificallyvalidated for this purpose. IntheadultpopulationwithMASLD,areselectednon- It has been shown that a combination of values from invasivescoresandimagingmodalitiesmoreusefulthan blood tests and anthropometric data enables a better liver enzyme testing for the detection of MASLD with prediction of fibrosis than single liver enzyme values fibrosis? (ALT and/or AST). The following scores have been de- In adults with MASLD or at-risk individuals, are scribedintheliteratureandweretestedinseveralstudies clinical care pathways based on the sequential appli- for their predictive power for fibrosis: cationofnon-invasivescoresandimagingcost-effective (cid:129) FIB-4(Fibrosis-4index)=agexAST/(plateletcountx for the identification and management of individuals √(ALT)) (age in years, ALT and AST in U/L, and with MASLD at risk of fibrotic disease (or of fibrosis platelet count in 109/L) . progression) compared to referral based on physician’s (cid:129) APRI(ASTtoplateletratioindex)=(AST/TopNormal discretion? AST) x (100/platelet count) . (cid:129) NFS (NAFLD fibrosis score) = -1.675 + 0.037 × age + Recommendations 0.094×BMI+1.13×impairedfastingglucose(yes=1, (cid:129) In adults with MASLD, non-invasive scores based on no = 0) + 0.99 × AST/ALT - 0.013 × platelet count - combinations of blood tests or combinations of blood 0.66 × albumin (age in years; BMI in kg/m2; AST and tests with imaging techniques measuring mechanical ALTin(U/L);plateletcountin109/Landalbumining/ properties and/or hepatic fat content should be used dl) . for the detection of fibrosis since their diagnostic ac- FIB-4isthemostwidelyestablishedandavailabletool. curacy is higher than standard liver enzyme testing However, its ability to detect fibrosis is limited in the (alanine[ALT]andaspartateaminotransferase[AST]) intermediate range (1.3-2.67), in the elderly and in indi- (LoE 2, strong recommendation, strong consensus). vidualswithT2D.FIB-4asasingletestmaytherefore (cid:129) In adults with MASLD, a multi-step approach is result in a high number of false positives, especially in recommended (detailed in Fig. 2 and below): First, an lower prevalence populations. Notably, in individuals established non-patented blood-based score, such as older than 65 years, a different lower FIB-4 cut-off of 2.0 FIB-4,shouldbeused.Thereafter,establishedimaging applies. Both FIB-4 and the NFS have moderate accuracy techniques, such as liver elastography, are recom- for predicting fibrosis stages ≥F3 with AUROCs of about mended as a second step to further clarify the fibrosis 0.77 and 0.75 for FIB-4 and NFS, respectively . stageiffibrosisisstillsuspectedorinhigh-riskgroups Furthermore, both FIB-4 and the NFS perform poorly in (LoE 2, strong recommendation, strong consensus). individuals younger than 35 years . Recently, (cid:129) Tests of specific collagen-related blood constituents machine-learningtechniqueshavebeenappliedtodevelop (e.g. ELF) may serve
