Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


the NFS perform poorly in (LoE 2, strong recommendation, strong consensus). individuals younger than 35 years . Recently, (cid:129) Tests of specific collagen-related blood constituents machine-learningtechniqueshavebeenappliedtodevelop (e.g. ELF) may serve as an alternative to imaging to optimised scores from multi-parametric inputs. Derived identify advanced liver fibrosis (LoE 2, open recom- scores (such as FIB-6) cannot be defined in closed for- mendation, consensus). mulae but may have improved diagnostic value . (cid:129) Clinical care pathways may be adopted based on the Severalscores,includingtheLiverRisk,SAFEandMAF- sequential application of non-invasive scores and 5 score are currently being developed for the population- imaging tests in adults with MASLD or at-risk indi- based setting [144–146]. Future studies will need to ad- viduals,recognisingthatmostadultswithMASLDare dress how these scores perform regarding accuracy, in seen in non-hepatology settings (LoE 2, weak rec- sequential testing and regarding cost-effectiveness. ommendation, strong consensus). Testsbasedoncomponentsofcollagenformationcan Non-invasive methods for determining the grade of provide additional evidence of fibrosis: fibrosis are mainly based on the examination of blood (cid:129) The ELF™ (enhanced liver fibrosis) test produces a components or on imaging methods that mostly reflect single score based on quantitative measurements of mechanicaltissueproperties.Importantly,thesemethods three serum markers of extracellular collagen meta- lack power in the general population and therefore are bolism.ELF=2.278+0.851×In(hyaluronicacid only useful in selected cohorts of individuals with [HA])+0.751×In(amino-terminalpropeptideoftype MASLD. Furthermore, test performance is highly de- IIIprocollagen[PIIINP])+0.394×In(tissueinhibitor pendent on the background prevalence of the condition of metalloproteinase 1 [TIMP-1]) as measured on the 386 ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 EASL/EASD/EASO DOI: ADVIACentaurXP/XPTsystem,AtellicaIMAnalyzer Quantitativeassessmentofliverlipidcontentishelpful and Atellica CI Analyzer. In a meta-analysis of 63 for the grading of liver steatosis and for monitoring the studies, ELF showed a relatively high performance in effectsofanintervention.MRIcanbeusedtoquantifythe detecting significant fibrosis, advanced fibrosis or triglyceride content (usually expressed as proton density cirrhosis (AUROCs 0.811, 0.812 and 0.810, respec- fat fraction [PDFF]) in the liver and is the non-invasive tively) . gold standard for hepaticlipid quantification in MASLD (cid:129) ADAPT – including age, presence of diabetes, PRO- . It is important to note that the percentage of C3, and platelet count – has recently shown relatively PDFF is not directly comparable to the percentage of high performance in identifying MASLD with ad- steatosisonhistology.Thelatterpercentageindicatesthe vanced fibrosis in the tertiary hepatology care setting proportionofhepatocytesthataremacroscopicallyfatty, , and in ruling out advanced fibrosis in low-risk whereas PDFF provides an estimate of the volume populations . fraction of lipids in the liver (different from histological Fibrosisleadstomodifiedmechanicalpropertiesofthe grade of steatosis) . Localised 1H-magnetic reso- liver,
