Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


in low-risk whereas PDFF provides an estimate of the volume populations . fraction of lipids in the liver (different from histological Fibrosisleadstomodifiedmechanicalpropertiesofthe grade of steatosis) . Localised 1H-magnetic reso- liver, which can be assessed using imaging techniques, nance spectroscopy (MRS) can also be used to assess such as ultrasound- and MR-based elastography . hepatic lipid content and is even more sensitive than (cid:129) Special ultrasound devices enable liver transient elas- imaging, especially for accurate quantification of low- tography. With the vibration-controlled transient elas- lipid content . Methods for lipid quantification in controlled attenuation parameter (CAP) values are de- Ultrasound-basedCAPvaluesprovideagoodestimateof terminedwhichallowforarelativelyreliableestimationof theliversteatosisgrade.WhileCTscansobtainedin Other ultrasound-based methods implementable with canprovidearoughestimateofliversteatosisandthereby common ultrasound devices are two-dimensional shear suggestSLD,thismethodisnotsuitableforproper wave elastography and point shear wave elastography assessment of steatosis. .Theyshowasimilarabilitytoassessthedegreeof Combined scores for fibrosis diagnosis that use blood fibrosis as VCTE . Unfortunately, adults with analyses and imaging results (elastography and steatosis class2obesitycannotbereliablyexaminedwithmanyof evaluation) have been proposed and tested in recent these ultrasound techniques . years: (cid:129) MR elastography (MRE) for assessment of liver stiff- (cid:129) MAST = MRE + MRI-PDFF + AST ; ness requires specialised hardware to generate me- (cid:129) FAST = VCTE (LSM, CAP) + AST ; chanical waves and dedicated acquisition techniques, (cid:129) MEFIB = MRE + FIB-4 . which are only available at a few sites . Several Which one of these scores has superior diagnostic substantialcomparativestudieshaveshownthatMRE performance is currently under investigation provides at least equal quality in fibrosis staging as but may depend on the population studied (e.g. diabetes ultrasound-based elastography techniques . alone) . Advantages of MRE for the diagnosis of advanced fibrosis were reported recently . Recommended Strategy in Adults with Suspected (cid:129) Another,moreindirectMRI-basedmethodforMASH MASLD and fibrosis diagnostics called LiverMultiScan can be The presence of MASLD and advanced fibrosis should performed with common MRI units without an elas- beevaluatedinindividualswith(A)T2Dor(B)abdominal tography unit. Since intracellular and extracellular obesity and ≥1 additional metabolic risk factor(s) or (C) areas of the liver differ in their T1 relaxation times, a persistently elevated liver enzymes (Fig. 2]. A multi-step ‘corrected T1’ (cT1) map can be generated from T1 process is recommended to identify individuals with ad- values (with correction for effects of iron by parallel vancedfibrosis.First,aFIB-4testshouldbeperformed.As T2* measurement). Resulting values provide a good depicted in Fig. 2, individuals with a relevant risk profile estimate of the relative proportion of extracellular shouldfollowdifferentpathwaysdependingontheresultof space and thus inflammatory activity and degree of thistest,owingtoapotentiallyhighnumberofindividuals fibrosis . However,
