Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


steatosis); SWE,shear-wave elastography; VCTE,vi- bration-controlledtransientelastography;US,ultrasound.Thepredictivevalueofthetest/procedureforliver-relatedoutcomes(e.g. cirrhosiscomplications,HCC,liver-relateddeath)isqualitativelydepicted(+low,++moderate,+++high,?unknown).Mergedcells represent non-invasive techniques with single cut-offs. 388 ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 EASL/EASD/EASO DOI: value, clinicians should recognise that FIB-4 will miss (cid:129) Blood biomarker-derived scores and elastography can has not been formally demonstrated that repeating FIB-4 observationalstudieshaveidentifiedthresholdsrelated over time is effective in picking up the remaining indi- toliver-relatedoutcomesandmortality(LoE3,strong viduals. If FIB-4 is >1.3 (or >2.0 in individuals aged>65), consensus). management of individuals with MASLD; however, the low predictive value,thehigh numberoffalse positive liverbiopsyisstillrequiredforthedefinitediagnosisof resultsmaycreateahighsubsequenttestingburden.Thus, steatohepatitis and can help to rule out alternative two options are recommended in individuals with FIB-4 causes of liver disease (LoE 1, strong consensus). scoresbetween1.3and2.67,dependingonmedicalhistory, individuals proceed to liver elastography (e.g. VCTE) as a (such as FIB-4 and ELF) and measurements of liver second step to clarify the stage of fibrosis; this option is stiffness (VCTE or MRE) are suitable for reliably de- particularlysuggestedinindividualswithFIB-4valuesclose tecting advanced fibrosis with positive and negative predictive values strongly dependent on the chosen cut- to2.67orinhigh-riskconditions.Analternativeoptionis offvaluesandtheprevalenceoffibrosisofdifferentstages that individuals with FIB-4 values between 1.3 and 2.67 in the studied population. Sensitivity generally increases undergo a 1-year intervention of lifestyle change and in- tensifiedmanagementofcardiometabolicriskfactors.Ifthe with increasing degree of fibrosis. Thedifferentapproachesmeasuredifferentproperties re-tested FIB-4 level is still elevated after 1 year, elastog- or processes in the liver. This is important when inter- raphy is recommended as the second step to clarify the pretingtheirresults(Table6):ASTandALTenzymesand stage of fibrosis. Blood tests for specific collagen blood derived scores indicate (if other causes of their elevation components (e.g. ELF) can be used as an alternative to can be ruled out) hepatic inflammation or hepatocyte elastography or a supplementary method for detecting injury; ELF and ADAPT indicate increased collagen advanced liver fibrosis. This stepwise approach demon- metabolism; while elastography methods are sensitive to strated practicability to identify individuals at risk of de- the amount of existing (cross-linked) extracellular col- velopingliver-relatedeventsinearlyfollow-up.This lagen structures (see Table 6] . approachalsoservestostratifyindividualsintoclinicalcare These non-invasive methods are also useful for mon- pathways (e.g. general practitioner, diabetologist, hepatol- itoring the course of disease and the effect of therapeutic ogyspecialistreferral)accordingtotheirriskofdeveloping interventions (degree of steatosis and stage of fibrosis). liver-related outcomes . However,wheninterpretingchanges,variabilityinresults under similar conditions needs to be considered. This In adults with MASLD, should non-invasive scores, cir- variability may be lower when using the same methods/ culating biomarkers, liver stiffness measurement, and devices/labs for individual follow-up studies . imagingmethodsreplaceliverbiopsyforthediagnosisof Althoughallnon-invasivemethods(incontrasttothe metabolicdysfunction-associatedsteatohepatitis(MASH) limitedsamplebybiopsy)canprovideinformationonthe and/or advanced fibrosis? entire liver (even spatially resolved in the case of imag- ing),
