Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


culating biomarkers, liver stiffness measurement, and devices/labs for individual follow-up studies . imagingmethodsreplaceliverbiopsyforthediagnosisof Althoughallnon-invasivemethods(incontrasttothe metabolicdysfunction-associatedsteatohepatitis(MASH) limitedsamplebybiopsy)canprovideinformationonthe and/or advanced fibrosis? entire liver (even spatially resolved in the case of imag- ing), no histological characteristics of the tissue can be Recommendation assessed. Only liver biopsy allows for an assessment of (cid:129) Blood biomarker-derived scores and elastography should be used to exclude advanced fibrosis, while microscopic features (ballooning, lobular inflammation, elastography is better suited to predict advanced fi- Mallory bodies, microvesicular vs. macrovesicular stea- tosis, staging of fibrosis), including the presence of brosis (LoE 2, strong recommendation, consensus). MASH. However, the presence of steatohepatitis (inde- pendent of fibrosis stage) may not impact treatment Statements (cid:129) Noneofthesenon-invasivemethodscanassessrelevant decisions and therefore, a liver biopsy is usually not microscopic features of MASLD such as ballooning or required for the clinical diagnosis and treatment of lobular inflammation (LoE 2, strong consensus). MASLD. Still, liver biopsies may be considered essential (cid:129) Some blood biomarker-based scores may help to as part of clinical studies (e.g. to determine the NAFLD identify individuals with MASH at risk of disease activity score [NAS]) or to rule out other diseases (e.g. progression (LoE 3, consensus). autoimmune hepatitis). EASL-EASD-EASOGuidelinesonthe ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 389 ManagementofMASLD DOI: In adults with MASLD, should non-invasive scores, circu- HR 1.98, 95% CI 1.20-3.26) predicted the development of latingbiomarkers,liverstiffnessmeasurement,andimaging cirrhosis, whereas LSM ≥30.7 kPa predicted liver-related techniquesbeusedasasurrogateforliverbiopsytomonitor events (HR 10.13, 4.38-23.41) . A recent individual progression of MASH and predict liver-related outcomes? participant data meta-analysis including 2,518 participants, with a median follow-up of 57 months, showed that time- Recommendations dependentAUCsat5yearswere0.72forhistology,0.76for (cid:129) InadultswithMASLD,sequentialassessmentwithnon- LSM-VCTE,0.74forFIB-4,and0.70forNFS.Allthesetests invasivetoolsmayassistinrulingoutfibrosisprogression weresignificantpredictorsoftheprimaryoutcome(overall (LoE 3, weak recommendation, strong consensus). mortality and liver-related outcomes) . (cid:129) InadultswithMASLD,non-invasivetoolscanhelppredict Of note, VCTE measurements are highly variable the risk of overall and liver-related events and mortality , with a coefficient of variation of up to 60% in those (LoE 2, weak recommendation, strong consensus). with cirrhosis . Furthermore, high VCTE measurements >7.9 kPa may not be reproducible at sub- In a retrospective longitudinal study with paired liver sequent measurements in about one-third of individuals biopsies(mediantimeinterval:2.6years),theincreaseover . In addition, despite a clear correlation between time of APRI, FIB-4 and NFS was significantly associated longitudinalchangesofFIB-4andriskofclinicaloutcomes, with one-stage fibrosis progression (cross-validated up to 50% of individuals with liver events may have per- C-statistic >0.80). FIB-4 and NFS had high negative pre- sistently low FIB-4 . Furthermore, only a very small dictive values (around 90%), but suboptimal positive
