Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


recommen- tions for treatment and family counselling [136, dation, consensus). 212–215]. Using next generation sequencing (NGS), a (cid:129) Geneticriskvariantscanbeevaluatedinclinicalstudies refined diagnosis (e.g. monogenic SLD) can currently for stratification of disease risk progression and sub- be reached in up to one-third of individuals [212, phenotyping of MASLD (LoE 3, open recommen- 214, 216]. dation, strong consensus). PNPLA3 p.I148M is associated with a distinct path- (cid:129) Clinicians can consider referring individuals with a ogenesis, and may predict response to some therapeutic strong family history of severe disease in first degree approaches and side effects of drugs, e.g. liver damage relatives or early presentation with a severe pheno- relatedtolong-actinginsulin-inducedlipidaccumulation (and/or e.g. in individuals with normal body weight), presently. Genetic variants in PNPLA3 and HSD17B13 for the evaluation of coexisting, treatable, genetic can be targeted by RNA interference therapies that are causes of liver disease by next-generation sequencing under evaluation in clinical studies on individuals with approaches (LoE 4, open recommendation, MASLD carrying at-risk genotypes, but there is not yet consensus). anyclinicalindicationforgenotypingoutsidetheclinical research setting . Inherited factors play a major role in the devel- opment and progression of MASLD, synergising with Istheassessmentofmetabolicabnormalities(e.g.insulin the metabolic causes of the disease . Overall sensitivity/resistance) useful for risk stratification or evidence suggests that the PNPLA3 p.I148M and management of adults with MASLD? TM6SF2 p.E167K variants are major risk factors for InadultswithMASLD,shoulddiagnosticproceduresbe progressive MASLD, and genotyping helps to non- performed for associated comorbidities (e.g., cardio- vascular diseases, diabetes, dyslipidaemia or obesity)? invasively predict progressive MASH, cirrhosis and HCC when considered alongside clinical factors [198–200], but accuracy is suboptimal for prediction Recommendations (cid:129) Clinicians should assess associated comorbidities of liver disease severity and progression at the indi- (e.g., type 2 diabetes, dyslipidaemia, hypertension, vidual level. Mendelian randomisation studies kidney disease, sleep apnoea, polycystic ovary syn- strongly suggest that these genetic risk factors are drome) and cardiovascular risk in adults with major drivers of MASLD. Notably, the impact of the MASLD (LoE 2, strong recommendation, strong PNPLA3 variant is larger in post-menopausal women consensus). than in men . (cid:129) AtinitialdiagnosisofMASLDandatregularfollow-up Besides PNPLA3 p.I148M and TM6SF2 p.E167K, ad- intervals, laboratory tests and physical examinations ditional variants, including common risk variants in for related comorbidities are recommended (Table 7) MBOAT7,GCKR,GPAM,protectivevariantsinHSD17B13, (LoE 2, strong recommendation, strong consensus). APOE and MTARC1, and rare variants (e.g. in APOB, (cid:129) AdultswithMASLDshouldbeencouragedtoparticipate MTTP, CIDEB and ATG7), have been robustly associated in extrahepatic cancer screening according to current with
