Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


Willebrand factor antigen Carotid artery intima media thickness EchoDoppler plaque instability Coronary artery calcification Obstructive sleep apnoea Neck circumference Epworth score Further investigations*: Sleep studies Overnight pulse oximetry Polisomnography CPAP trial PCOS Sex hormones: LH, FSH, testosterone, SHBG Ovarian ultrasound FSH, follicle-stimulating hormone; HDL, high-density lipoprotein; HOMA-IR, homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance; hsCRP,high-sensitivityCRP;LDL,low-densitylipoprotein;LH,luteinisinghormone;NT-proBNP,N-terminalpro-brainnatriureticpeptide; evaluation and a priori probability. 392 ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 EASL/EASD/EASO DOI: mainly hypercaloric nutrition, gut dysbiosis and specif- warrantingcarotidultrasoundexaminationinadultswith ically adipose tissue dysfunction, which is characterised increased non-esterified fatty acids and contrast- by redistribution of non-esterified fatty acids and sub- enhanced ultrasound to assess plaque vulnerability. NT- sequent imbalance of the release of anti- and proin- proBNP (N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide) has flammatory cytokines. This favours hepatic lipid storage been shown to be independently associated with car- and leads to hepatic insulin resistance with reduced diovascular mortality in the general population . postprandial glycogen storage and increased glucose The combined use of NT-proBNP and FIB-4 is helpful production . Thereby, insulin resistance also in risk-stratification of adults since they are indepen- associates with cardiometabolic risk factors and repre- dently associated with higher mortality in MASLD. larlyobesityandT2D.ThepresenceofMASLD MASLD development is well established, strategies for is associated witha morethan two-fold increased risk of their thorough assessment have not yet been outlined. an incident diagnosis of T2D, and this risk is increased Table 7 summarises the main comorbidities to screen withmoreadvancedstagesofMASLD.Ofnote,the for, available laboratory tests and complementary ex- prevalence of MASLD correlates with the degree of in- aminationsaccordingtoclinicalevaluationandapriori sulin resistance even within T2D . While the la- probability. borious hyperinsulinemic-normoglycemic clamp test In adults with non-cirrhotic MASLD or MASH, is represents the gold-standard method, insulin resistance surveillance indicated for early detection of hepatocel- canalsobemeasuredclinicallywiththeHOMA-IRindex lular carcinoma? from fasting insulin or C-peptide and fasting glucose concentrations,includingin peoplewithT2D(unlesson Recommendations insulintreatment).Giventhecentralrole (cid:129) In adults with non-cirrhotic MASLD or MASH in the of adipose tissue, the adipose tissue insulin resistance absence of severe fibrosis (i.e. those with fibrosis index (Adipo-IR) even predicts the severity of hepatic stage <F3) assessed by non-invasive markers or liver fibrosis . However, the interpretation of HOMA-IR biopsy, surveillance for early detection of hepatocel- and Adipo-IR requires standardised measurement of lularcarcinomaiscurrentlynotrecommended(LoE3, insulin and/or C-peptide concentrations. weak recommendation, consensus). Presence, duration and severity of excess weight are (cid:129) In adults with non-cirrhotic MASLD or MASH in the associatedwithanincreasedriskofdiseaseprogressionin presence of severe fibrosis (F3) assessed by non- MASLD . EASO advocates for the
