Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


severity of excess weight are (cid:129) In adults with non-cirrhotic MASLD or MASH in the associatedwithanincreasedriskofdiseaseprogressionin presence of severe fibrosis (F3) assessed by non- MASLD . EASO advocates for the use of the invasive markers or liver biopsy, surveillance may be adiposity-based chronic disease concept for diagnosis, considered based on an individual risk assessment treatment and prevention of comorbidities , un- (LoE 4, weak recommendation, strong consensus). derscoring a complications-centred approach with total body fat and, in particular, visceral fat distribution de- There is currently no consensus on whether sur- terminingthemajorityoftherisk.Evaluationofthe veillanceforHCCisbeneficialinnon-cirrhoticMASLD hepato-adipo-cardio-renalaxesisparticularlyimportant. or MASH. The risk factors and natural history of HCC For instance, MASLD is linked to an increased risk of development in the context of MASLD are not as well- chronic kidney disease, especially if fibrosis is present. defined as for other aetiologies of liver disease, and Glomerularhyperfiltrationisconsideredanearlymarker robust data on the incidence of HCC in MASLD, par- of both renal and liver disease, with its identification ticularly in individuals without cirrhosis, is lacking. prompting risk factor management and preventive Nevertheless, several studies have shown that individ- measures. In a large meta-analysis including 1,222,032 uals with MASLD without cirrhosis may develop HCC, individuals, the risk of incident chronic kidney disease albeit rarely . In a US Veterans Administration (CKD) stage ≥3 was 1.45-fold higher in individuals with cohortincluding1,500individualswithHCCfrom MASLD, independent of demographic and CKD risk 2005 to 2010, metabolic syndrome was particularly factors.Still,thereisuncertaintyastowhetherthere prevalent in the subgroup who had no cirrhosis. In the isadirectcausallinkbetweenMASLDandCKDasboth samecohort,theriskofHCCintheabsenceofcirrhosis diseases share common risk factors . was 5-fold higher in individuals with MASLD than in Cardiovascular disease is consistently and indepen- those with chronic hepatitis C. In a tertiary centre for dentlyassociatedwithcirculatingnon-esterifiedfattyacid HCC referral in Northern England , individuals concentrations and higher intima media thickness, with HCC due to MASLD had a lower prevalence of EASL-EASD-EASOGuidelinesonthe ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 393 ManagementofMASLD DOI: cirrhosis (77.2%) than those with other aetiologies. FIB-4 <1.30 . In a study of histologically con- SimilarobservationshavebeenconfirmedinaEuropean firmedMASLDinSweden,theoverallHCCratevaried study and two Japanese studies, where cirrhosis withtheadvancingstageofMASLD(per1,000PY):0.8 wasabsentin38%and49%ofindividualswithMASLD- insimplesteatosis,1.2inMASHwithoutfibrosis,2.3in related HCC, respectively . fibrosis (F1-F3) without cirrhosis, and 6.2 in cirrhosis Effective surveillance is challenging in individuals . Overall, the incidence of HCC in those with without cirrhosis. In a retrospective analysis of individ- MASLD and earlier stages of fibrosis (stage 0–2) is uals with MASLD who were diagnosed with HCC be- extremely low and determinants of risk have not been tween2003and2012,thosewithHCConanon-cirrhotic well
