Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


individ- MASLD and earlier stages of fibrosis (stage 0–2) is uals with MASLD who were diagnosed with HCC be- extremely low and determinants of risk have not been tween2003and2012,thosewithHCConanon-cirrhotic well quantified. liver more frequently had a larger nodule size and/or a Individuals with F3 fibrosis have an intermediate risk greaterrateofHCCrecurrencethanthosewithcirrhosis of developing HCC thatis lower than that of individuals . Similarly, in another case series of 44 individuals with cirrhosis, but not negligible. Adults with MASLD who developed MASLD-related HCC between 2010 and and F3 fibrosis are difficult to stage reliably in a non- 2012, only one individual without cirrhosis (out of six) invasive manner, making HCC surveillance decisions underwent liver resection, while the late diagnosis im- harder and less favourable from a cost-effectiveness peded curative treatments in the others . standpoint. Studies in MASLD indicate an elevated The utility and applicability of HCC surveillance HCC risk with FIB-4 >3.25 (risk >1%/year) or depends on several factors: incidence of HCC in target change of LSM over time in individuals with histologic populations, availability of efficient diagnostic tests at diagnosisofF3-F4fibrosisand/orbaselineLSM>10kPa acceptable cost, and availability and effectiveness of (HR1.72)inindividualswithoutcirrhosis.Further treatments. Cost-effectiveness analyses indicate that studies focusing on cost analysis are warranted in indi- HCC screening should be considered for individuals vidualswithMASLDwithoutcirrhosisbutwithhighFIB- with HCC risk exceeding 1.0–1.5% per year . 4 or LSM to confirm the need for surveillance in this The annual incidence rates of HCC in MASH-related intermediate-risk group of individuals. cirrhosiscohortsrangefrom0.2to2.6%,whilethe Metabolic syndrome itself and T2D have also been HCC incidence in individuals without cirrhosis is very reportedtobeassociatedwithanincreasedriskofHCCin low,rangingfrom0.08to0.63per1,000PY[247–251].A largecohortstudies,buttheincreaseinabsolute systematic review and a meta-analysis concluded that HCC risk attributable to metabolic factors (e.g. T2D, the risk estimate is likely too low to justify routine obesity) or genetic factors in individuals with non- screening in MASLD without evidence of advanced fi- cirrhotic MASLD is very small. brosis . A recent study updated these figures and foundalowincidenceofHCCat10years(2.7%)inthose Should hepatocellular carcinoma monitoring pro- withMASLDwithoutcirrhosis.Importantly,cost- grammes be implemented in all adults with MASH- effectivenessisdependentonthehealthcaresystem,and related cirrhosis, or should they be implemented based as most studies are derived from the US, their results on risk stratification? cannot easily be extrapolated to European healthcare systems. In addition, it may be questioned whether the Recommendations incidence cut-offs of 1.0-1.5%/year still hold true. (cid:129) According to current guidelines, hepatocellular carci- Overall, there still is insufficient evidence to warrant noma monitoring programmes should be applied to HCC surveillance
