Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


cut-offs of 1.0-1.5%/year still hold true. (cid:129) According to current guidelines, hepatocellular carci- Overall, there still is insufficient evidence to warrant noma monitoring programmes should be applied to HCC surveillance in individuals with MASLD without individuals with MASLD-related cirrhosis (LoE 3, cirrhosis. strong recommendation, strong consensus). Accumulating evidence suggests that NITs may be (cid:129) Riskstratificationcanhelpinoptimisingstrategiesfor useful to identify those individuals with MASLD monitoringindividualsathigherriskofhepatocellular without cirrhosis at highest risk of HCC development. carcinoma (Table 8) (LoE 4, weak recommendation, In the national Veterans Affairs study, a FIB-4 >2.67, strong consensus). suggestive of advanced fibrosis (F3/F4), was associated (cid:129) Asultrasound-basedsurveillancehasalowsensitivityfor with an increased risk of HCC (0.39/1,000 vs. 0.04/ detection of hepatocellular carcinoma at an early-stage, 1,000 PY in individuals with persistently low FIB-4) in particularlyinadultswithMASLD-relatedcirrhosisand the absence ofcirrhosis . In another retrospective obesity, alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) measurement can be cohortstudy,theannualincidenceofHCCwas2.8per combined with ultrasound in individuals at high risk 1,000 PY with FIB-4 >2.67 and 0.7 per 1,000 PY with (LoE 3, open recommendation, consensus). 394 ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 EASL/EASD/EASO DOI: Table8.Factors associated with a higher risk of HCC occurrence in non-cirrhotic MASLD Factor(s) References Presence and duration of T2D, obesity or both Older age Concurrent alcohol intake and/or smoking Individuals with FIB-4 >3.25 Individuals with LSM >10 kPa and increasing change in LSM over time (cid:129) Cross-sectionalimagingbyMRImaybeundertakenin Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) is the only biomarker with selected adults at high risk with persistent poor visu- sufficientevidencetosupportitsuseinclinicalpractice,in alisationatultrasound,particularlyinindividualswith combination with ultrasound. In a meta-analysis of dysplastic or regenerative nodules(LoE 3, open rec- 13,367 individuals, the combined use of AFP and ul- ommendation, strong consensus). trasound was reported to increase the sensitivity for detectionofearlyHCCfrom45%to63%.Notably, The approach to HCC monitoring in adults with changes in AFP values across serial measurements are MASH-related cirrhosis involves a combination of risk superior to single AFP values for the detection of early- stratification and individualised decision-making. Ac- stage HCC . cordingtocurrentEASLguidelines,risk-based NITsforfibrosispredictionmayhelpinriskstratification. surveillance divides individuals with cirrhosis into three TheNAFLDfibrosisscore(NFS)hadareportedc-indexof groups: the high-risk group must undergo surveillance, upto0.9forthepredictionofHCCinalongitudinalstudyof and more costly screening tools than ultrasound are 1,173 European individuals with MASLD . Another justified;thelow-riskgroupmaynotneedsurveillanceat model incorporated genetic variants in a risk score that all;andtheremainingintermediate-riskgroupshouldbe predicted HCC independently of classical risk factors, but offeredsurveillance.Themainproblemishowtoperform the AUROC when used alone was only 0.65 . an effective risk-stratification for HCC risk in persons Longitudinal changes in NITs can be more informa- with MASLD and cirrhosis. tive.Inarecentstudy,theannualriskofHCCwasashigh Cirrhosis in MASLD is under-recognised compared to as2.5%inindividualswithcirrhosisandpersistentlyhigh other aetiologies
