Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


(cid:129) InadultswithMASLDandadvancedfibrosisorcirrhosis, assessed activity are linked with changes in fibrosis over regressionoffibrosishasbeenassociatedwithareduced time. In a natural history cohort of 445 individuals with riskofliver-relatedoutcomes(LoE2,strongconsensus). 4.9 years mean follow-up between paired liver biopsies (cid:129) Improvement in disease activity and resolution of fromtheNASHCRN,improvementintheNASovertime steatohepatitishavebeenassociatedwithregressionof was associated with fibrosis regression, and worsening of fibrosis (LoE 2, strong consensus). theNASwasassociatedwithfibrosisprogression.In (cid:129) Reduction of steatosis has been associated with histo- a retrospective analysis of 441 individuals with paired logical improvements (particularly necro-inflammation) biopsies from two clinical trials conducted by the NASH in some pharmacological intervention studies (LoE 2, CRN, resolution of steatohepatitis was the strongest pre- strong consensus). dictor of fibrosis regression . (cid:129) Since improved mortality has not been demonstrated Inseveralstudiesandrecentmeta-analyses,changesin for any of these treatment-induced histological MRI-PDFF-assessed steatosis correlated with histological changes, further long-term follow-up studies are endpoints. In particular, in several studies, a relative re- neededtodemonstratethathaltingdiseaseprogression ductioninMRI-PDFFof≥30%wasassociatedwithahigh and/or reduction of steatosis, resolution of steatohe- likelihoodofresolutionofsteatohepatitis(OR5.45), patitisorregressionoffibrosistranslateintoareduced although this may be dependent on specific modes of action,mightnotbegeneralisable,andpotentiallydepends The goal of any disease management is to obtain onthemode-of-action ofthe investigated intervention.A clinicallymeaningfulbenefit.ForMASLDthishasmainly recent study of 100 paired biopsies also suggests that this focused on liver-related outcomes, although the potential endpoint correlates with fibrosis regression (adjusted OR impact on other related diseases (e.g., cardiovascular of 6.46), but further validation is needed . disease, extrahepatic malignancy) and quality of life are In adults with MASLD, should non-invasive scores, increasingly being explored (including in interventional serum markers, liver stiffness measurements, and im- trials) as part of a more holistic approach. Liver-related aging be used as a substitute for liver biopsy for outcomes usually refer to cirrhosis decompensation, de- monitoring therapeutic responses? cline in liver function, occurrence of HCC and liver transplantation.Intrialsassessingclinicaloutcomes Statements in non-cirrhotic MASH, progression to cirrhosis is also (cid:129) Non-invasive tests have been linked with histologically generally included as a liver-related outcome. assessed treatment response, but the most appropriate The heterogeneous, fluctuating, and slow natural his- non-invasivetestmaydependonthetypeofintervention tory of the disease requires long-term studies to demon- and patient-related factors (LoE 2, strong consensus). and such studies are currently limited. Therefore, several been correlated with changes in the risk of adverse out- surrogate endpoints have been defined, including im- comesonacohortorpopulationlevel(LoE3,consensus). provements or absence of deterioration in histological (cid:129) In the setting of randomised controlled trials and de- features,aswellas,morerecently,imaging-basedfeatures pending on the mode of intervention, changes of non- orotherNITs.Thesearelikelytotranslateintoareduction invasive markers (e.g., MRI-PDFF relative reduction of liver-related outcomes.
