Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


(cid:129) In the setting of randomised controlled trials and de- features,aswellas,morerecently,imaging-basedfeatures pending on the mode of intervention, changes of non- orotherNITs.Thesearelikelytotranslateintoareduction invasive markers (e.g., MRI-PDFF relative reduction of liver-related outcomes. However, to date, these surro- by ≥30%, ALT reduction by ≥17 U/L) have been asso- gateshavenotbeenunambiguouslylinkedtotrueclinical ciated with resolution of steatohepatitis (LoE 2, strong benefits (e.g., liver-related mortality) . As per regu- consensus). EASL-EASD-EASOGuidelinesonthe ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 397 ManagementofMASLD DOI: (cid:129) Liver biopsy is not suited for monitoring disease sponders from non-responders (OR >10). In a combined evolution or response to therapy in routine clinical analysisofthesimtuzumabandselonsertibtrialsinMASH- practice due to its invasiveness and procedure-related relatedcirrhosis,achangeinELFof0.5wasrelatedto or other histological endpoints was not reported. MRE has Recommendations been proposed as an alternative to VCTE, but despite nu- (cid:129) At the individual level, non-invasive tests may be re- merical differences, changes in MRE over time were not peatedlyusedtoassessfibrosisprogressioninatailored significantly different between histological responders and fashion but may provide limited information about non-responders in the selonsertib phase II trial . cT1 treatment response (LoE 5, weak recommendation, decreasedmoreinresponders(NASdecreaseof≥2orfibrosis strong consensus). regression) than in non-responders in the aldafermin AL- (cid:129) Inindividualcasesandinclinicaltrials,liverbiopsycanbe PINE trial but the optimal cut-off to separate responders used to monitor disease progression or response to from non-responders is unclear . Promising data have treatment (LoE 1, open recommendation, strong also been reported for FAST . consensus). In adults with MASLD, can the management of liver Many studies have used NITs to provide evidence disease and extrahepatic comorbidities within multi- supporting the observed efficacy of an intervention (vs. disciplinary teams involving hepatologists and other havelinkedlongitudinalchangesinNITswithchangesin fibrosis or other histological endpoints. Furthermore, for Recommendation mostNITs,welackavalidatedthresholdforthemagnitude (cid:129) Given the multidirectional connections between of change that is predictive of histological responses or MASLD and cardiometabolic comorbidities, a multi- clinical outcomes on the individual level. disciplinary approach is recommended to ensure all Secondary analyses from RCTs investigating NIT re- components are appropriately targeted to improve sponses to pharmacological treatments and their relation both liver-related and extrahepatic outcomes (LoE 3, to histological outcomes have shown that reductions in strong recommendation, strong consensus). Pro-C3 levels are associated with histological response to thefibroblastgrowthfactor(FGF)19analoguealdafermin, Treatment of cardiometabolic comorbidities may modifydiseaseprogressionandcontributetoareductionin the FGF21 analogue pegozafermin and the chemokine receptor CCR2/5 inhibitor cenicriviroc [280–282], while liver-relatedevents(e.g.statins,aspirin,renin-angiotensin- aldosteronemodulators).Anti-diabeticandanti- reductionsinELFscoreswereshowntobeassociatedwith obesity treatments such as pioglitazone and glucagon-like histological response to aldafermin . peptide1receptoragonistscanhaveahepaticbenefit(e.g., The mostextensive analysisin that regard is fromthe phase II data on pioglitazone and glucagon-like peptide
