Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


in biomarkers of liver damage . However, evidence to improve liver inflammation, and ≥10% to improve foraneffectofweightreductionbylifestylemodification fibrosis (LoE 2, strong recommendation, strong onadvancedfibrosisorcirrhosisisinsufficient,owingto consensus). theminorityofindividualswithadvancedfibrosisinmost clinical trials and the lack of subgroup analyses . A Statement stringent interventional trial with histological endpoints (cid:129) Further follow-up studies are needed to determine the suggested a bodyweight reduction of ≥5% is required to long-termeffectivenessofdietaryandbehaviouraltherapy- reduce liver lipid content, 7-10% to improve inflamma- liver-related outcomes and liver-related mortality (LoE 3, limited proportion of individuals achieve a weight re- strong consensus). duction of ≥5% . In addition, long-term EASL-EASD-EASOGuidelinesonthe ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 399 ManagementofMASLD DOI: adherencetobehaviouralchangesisofteninsufficient,as sugars and saturated fat) and avoiding sugar- seeninobesitytrials.Thereislimiteddataonlong- sweetened beverages should be recommended to term dietary interventions in MASLD since study du- improvehistologicallyornon-invasivelyassessedliver rations range from 2-24 months [299–301]. Only a few injury (LoE 2, strong recommendation, strong studies have performed 12-24-month follow-ups, show- consensus). ing a maximal weight loss at 6 months, followed by a gradualweightregaintoanetweightlossofabout5%at Statement 12-24monthsandpartialregainofliverlipidcontentand (cid:129) There is little evidence that improving diet quality stiffness[302–304].Thesedataemphasisetheimportance beneficially impacts clinical liver-related outcomes ofaccessibleandaffordablelong-termstructuredlifestyle (LoE 3, consensus). modification programmes, including diet, physical ac- In a meta-analysis of observational studies and tivity, and behavioural therapy, for individuals with MASLD, and highlight the need for longer-term (≥2 been shown to provide hepatic and cardiovascular years) RCTs on lifestyle interventions. .TheMediterraneandietischaracterisedbyhigh weightandimproveMASLD.Hypocaloriclow-carbohydrate intakes of olive oil, vegetables, fruits, nuts and seeds, diets and low-fat diets appear to be similarly effective in reducing liver lipid content and related biomarkers [305, legumes, whole grains, fish, and seafood. Notably, the 306].However,theMediterraneandietseemstohaveadded Mediterranean diet advocates the reduction of sugars valueforliverlipidreductionandcardiometabolichealthand and refined carbohydrates, saturated fat, ultra- maybeeasiertomaintaininthelong-term.There processed foods, and red and processed meat, which is currently insufficient evidence on the efficacy or safety of are all related to MASLD risk in observational studies very low carbohydrate ketogenic diets – characterised by [105, 300, 315–317]. Saturated fat has been shown to extremecarbohydraterestrictionto<20-50g/day(10-25%of haveanegativeeffectonliversteatosisinseveralshort- total calories) and high fat and protein contents – in indi- term clinical trials . Several observational and viduals with MASLD , taking into consideration po- cross-sectional studies have shown the harmful asso- tential cardiovascular, kidney and other side effects . ciation between MASLD and high intake of red and Time-restricted eating, also called intermittent fasting, is a processed meat [318–320]. Intake of added sugars, new dietary strategy in which calories are consumed in a especially fructose, plays a major role in MASLD
