Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


called intermittent fasting, is a processed meat [318–320]. Intake of added sugars, new dietary strategy in which calories are consumed in a especially fructose, plays a major role in MASLD de- defined time window . There is currently very little velopment . Evidence from RCTs and a large evidencefor abeneficial effect oftime-restricted eating over prospective observational study shows an association regular caloric restriction on hepatic lipid content in indi- ofdietaryaddedsugars,especiallyintheformofsugar- viduals with MASLD . The long-term ad- sweetenedbeverages,withincreasedliversteatosis,the herence can be improved by taking into account the indi- potentially the risk of MASH . A prospective acteristics.InaCochranesystematicreviewofRCTsinpeople withMASLD,withfollow-upperiodsof2–24months,data cohort study showed a dose-response association be- weresparseregardingtheeffectsoflifestyleinterventionson tween soft drink consumption and MASLD; a con- anyclinicaloutcome(death,liver-relatedcomplications,and sumptionof≥4servingsperweekwasrelatedtoa45% livercancer).Long-term,largeRCTsareneededtotest increased risk of developing MASLD . Similarly, the effect of lifestyle interventions on clinical outcomes. an unhealthy diet is also related to the risk of liver cancer. In an observational study, high intake of red InadultswithMASLD,ischangingdietqualityeffective meat, saturated fat, cholesterol, and refined sugars are in reducing histologically/non-invasively assessed liver damage/fibrosis and liver-related outcomes compared associated with an increased liver cancer risk . In contrast, the Mediterranean diet or similar healthy with no intervention? eating patterns areassociatedwith alowerriskofliver Recommendation cancer . Adherence to healthier eating patterns (cid:129) In adults with MASLD, improving diet quality has also been associated with lower risk of all-cause, (similar to the Mediterranean dietary pattern), lim- cardiovascular- and cancer-related mortality in US itingtheconsumptionofultra-processedfood(richin adults with MASLD in an observational study . 400 ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 EASL/EASD/EASO DOI: Importantly, dietary guidance to improve cardiovas- demonstrated that regular increased physical activity is cular health advocates the same dietary princi- associatedwithreducedriskforliverfibrosis(measuredby ples . non-invasive markers), cirrhosis, all-cause mortality [338–340] and HCC . Using data from the UK Bi- In adults with MASLD, are physical activity and ex- obank cross-sectional study, physical activity measured ercise effective at reducing histologically/non-invasively using accelerometery was inversely related with hepatic assessed liver damage/fibrosis and liver-related out- fibro-inflammation measured by MRI . Therefore, comes compared with no intervention? increased physical activity, exercise and reduction in sedentary behaviour, independent of weight loss, has Recommendation hepatic and cardiometabolic benefit and should be rou- (cid:129) In adults with MASLD, physical activity and exercise tinely recommended . The combination of shouldberecommendedtoreducesteatosis,tailoredtothe aerobicplusresistancetrainingispreferred.Aerobic individual’s preference and ability (preferably >150 min/ activity(30–60min)onmostdaysoftheweekcanleadtoa week of moderate or 75 min/week of vigorous-intensity small amount of weight and fat loss, improvement in physical activity) (LoE 1, strong recommendation, cardiometabolicparameters,maintenanceoffat-freemass strong
