Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


ability (preferably >150 min/ activity(30–60min)onmostdaysoftheweekcanleadtoa week of moderate or 75 min/week of vigorous-intensity small amount of weight and fat loss, improvement in physical activity) (LoE 1, strong recommendation, cardiometabolicparameters,maintenanceoffat-freemass strong consensus). during weight loss and weight maintenance after weight loss.Physicalactivityconcentratedwithin1to2days Statement of the week, termed the “weekend warrior” pattern, was (cid:129) In comparison to the well-documented car- also associated with a lower risk of cardiovascular out- diometabolic benefits, there is less robust evidence for comes . benefitsofphysicalactivityandexerciseonhistological outcomes, non-invasively assessed liver damage/ InadultswithMASLDwhoarenormalweight,arediet strong consensus). histologically/non-invasively assessed liver damage/ fibrosis and liver-related outcomes in comparison Sedentary behaviour is an independent predictor of with no intervention? MASLD and is associated with a greater risk of MASLDprogression,whileseveralRCTsandmeta- Recommendation analyses have demonstrated that exercise alone, without (cid:129) In normal-weight adults with MASLD, diet and ex- dietary interventions or significant weight loss, reduces erciseinterventionsshouldberecommendedtoreduce liversteatosisinindividualswithMASLD.AnRCT liver fat (LoE 3, strong recommendation, strong showed that a 3-month aerobic exercise regimen (three consensus). 90-minutesessions/week)reducedliversteatosisandliver Statement stiffness, independent of weight loss . (cid:129) In normal-weight adults with MASLD, there is cur- ManyRCTstestedtheeffectsofdifferenttypesofexercise rentlynoevidenceregardingthebeneficialeffectofdiet training programmes, including aerobic training, resistance and/or exercise on liver histology, fibrosis and liver- training,high-intensityintervaltraining,orcombined,with varying frequency and length of sessions and intensities. Mostwereeffectiveforsteatosisreduction,withoutasingle MASLD can develop in individuals with normal BMI optimalexerciseprescriptionbeingidentifiedforindividuals within the ethnic-specific cut-offs . Normal-weight with fibrosis . A meta-analysis of 19 RCTs that MASLD is defined as the presence of MASLD in an compared two types of aerobic training, high-intensity in- individual with a BMI <25 kg/m2 (non-Asian ethnicity) terval training and traditional moderate-intensity continu- or <23 kg/m2 (Asian ethnicity) . ous training, showed that both exercise types were equally Normal-weightindividualswithMASLDhaveahigher effective for liver fat reduction . prevalence of metabolic alterations including insulin clearwhetherexercisetrainingcanindependentlyimprove masscomparedtonormal-weightcontrols.In liver histology . However, RCTs in individuals anRCTofa12-monthlifestyleinterventionprogramme, with MASLD show that exercise improves quality of life, a 3-5% weight reduction led to remission of MASLD cardiorespiratoryfitness,reducesvisceralfat,andimproves (measured by 1H-MRS) among 50% of the individuals muscle mass and function even in advanced liver disease without obesity. Moreover, individuals defined as non- .Furthermore,severalobservationalstudieshave obese were more likely than individuals with obesity to EASL-EASD-EASOGuidelinesonthe ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 401 ManagementofMASLD DOI: maintain weight reduction and normal liver enzymes Coffee consumption – caffeinated or not – has been over long-term (6-year) follow-up . Similarly, in a shown to have a protective association with MASLD in large cohort study that included 2,383 normal-weight several observational studies of varying quality. In a
