Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


(6-year) follow-up . Similarly, in a shown to have a protective association with MASLD in large cohort study that included 2,383 normal-weight several observational studies of varying quality. In a meta- adults with MASLD, weight reduction over a median analysisofvarioustypesofobservationalstudies,theriskof follow-up of 3 years was associated with MASLD reso- MASLD and fibrosis was lower among those who drank lution (measured by abdominal ultrasound) in a dose- coffee compared to those who did not. The results were dependent manner . A few small observational strongerand moreconsistent for fibrosisthan for steatosis studies have indicated that dietary fructose and sugar- .Similarly,anearliermeta-analysisshowedthatintake sweetenedbeverageconsumptionishigherinindividuals of≥3cupsofcoffeeperday(vs.<2perday)wasrelatedto with MASLD and no obesity ; thus, these in- reducedriskofMASLD.Inanationallyrepresentative dividuals may benefit from reducing their intake and cross-sectional study, ≥3 cups of coffee daily were inde- improving diet quality. pendentlyassociatedwithlowerLSMbutnotwithsteatosis (measured by CAP) . In addition, in prospective In adults with MASLD, are nutraceuticals (food sup- observational studies, coffee consumption was inversely plements, herbal products, gut microbiota-modifying related to death from chronic liver disease and HCC [357, agents) effective to reduce histologically/non-invasively 358]. Since observational studies are prone to unmeasured assessed liver damage/fibrosis and liver-related outcomes orresidualconfounding,andRCTsinvestigatingthehepatic compared with no intervention? effects of coffee consumption are scarce and negative or inconclusive,nofirmconclusionscanbedrawn. Recommendation (cid:129) In adults with MASLD, nutraceuticals cannot be rec- ommendedsince thereis insufficient evidence of their Treatment of MASLD: Pharmacological Therapy effectiveness in reducing histologically/non-invasively assessed liver damage/fibrosis and liver-related out- In adults with MASH, is there sufficient evidence to comes in MASLD, nor of their safety (LoE 2, open recommend prescription of existing non-glucose- recommendation, strong consensus). lowering drugs to reduce histologically/non-invasively assessed liver damage/fibrosis and liver-related out- Statement comes compared to no pharmacological intervention? (cid:129) In adults with MASLD, coffee consumption has been associated with improvements in liver damage and reduced liver-related clinical outcomes in observa- Recommendations tional studies (LoE 4, strong consensus). (cid:129) If approved locally and dependent on the label, adults withnon-cirrhoticMASHwithsignificantliverfibrosis ACochranemeta-analysisof202RCTsforpeoplewith MASLD assessed the benefits and harms of nutritional (stage ≥2) should be considered for treatment with resmetirom as a MASH-targeted therapy, as this supplements for treatment of MASLD. Follow-up ranged treatment demonstrated histological efficacy on stea- from 1 month to 28 months. The evidence indicates considerable uncertaintyabouteffects ofinterventions on tohepatitis and fibrosis in a large phase III registra- pensation, HCC, and mortality), as well as on serious profile (LoE 2, strong recommendation, consensus). adverse events. High-quality comparative RCTs with ad- (cid:129)
