Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


most signalling.Thyromimeticsthatareselectivefor commonsideeffectswerediarrhoea(upto33%),nausea the β subtype (liver expressed) of the thyroid hormone (up to 22%), pruritus (up to 11%) and vomiting (up to receptor have been evaluated as a treatment for MASH. 11%) . Individuals receiving resmetirom should be Resmetirom is an orally active, liver-directed, thyroid monitored for gastrointestinal side effects and thyroid hormonereceptoragonistwithhighselectivityfortheβ1 hormone function. Circulating sex hormone-binding receptor.Resultsofaregistrational,phaseIIItrialof globulin (SHGB) levels have been suggested as a surro- resmetirom in individuals with non-cirrhotic MASH gate for target engagement. (mostly fibrosis stages 2 and 3) of 1 year duration have Importantly, evidence is currently limited to 52-week beenreported.IntheUS,thisledtotheaccelerated histological outcome data. This raises uncertainty as to approval of resmetirom in March 2024. Resmetirom whether responses will be sustained in the long-term. performed better than placebo as it improved both dis- Similarly, there is currently no evidence to provide con- ease activity (resolution of steatohepatitis) and fibrosis. fident guidance on when to stop treatment, particularly Progressionoffibrosisinindividualswithstage2fibrosis considering that about 70-80 % of participants did not was lower than in the placebo arm. Liver enzymes and respondto treatment accordingto histological criteria. In serum lipids were also significantly reduced while the theMAESTRO-NASHtrial,a≥30%reductioninhepatic effects on glycaemic control and body weight were lipidcontentbyMRI-PDFFanda120%increaseinSHGB neutral. Side effects were mostly gastrointestinal with were associated with a positive treatment response . good overall safety and tolerability. Predictive criteria of Linked to the lack of long-term data, there is uncertainty response and optimal duration of therapy are currently regarding long-term safety and effectiveness of resmetir- unknown.ThephaseIIItrialiscontinuingtodetermineif om. Particularly the effects on the pituitary-thyroid hor- longer treatment results in improved clinical outcomes mone axis and increases in SHGB levels warrant close , including preventing the progression to cirrhosis. monitoring for thyroid, gonadal or bone disease . A trial exploring clinical outcomes in a cirrhotic pop- Many individuals who may be eligible for treatment ulation is also ongoing. with resmetirom will already be receiving other phar- TheMAESTRO-NASHphaseIIIregistrationaltrialof macological treatments, e.g. GLP1RA, which raises the resmetirom included individuals with at-risk MASH question of how to integrate resmetirom into combina- defined histologically by active steatohepatitis (NAS ≥4) tion treatments. About 14% of participants in the and significant fibrosis (stage 2 or 3). While individuals MAESTRO-NASH trial were on GLP1RA treatment, selected for pharmacotherapy would ideally fit the same withstabledosageinthe6monthsandstablebodyweight EASL-EASD-EASOGuidelinesonthe ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 403 ManagementofMASLD DOI: in the 3 months preceding screening liver biopsy . [387–389] and only two of them report histological end- Therefore,
