Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


would ideally fit the same withstabledosageinthe6monthsandstablebodyweight EASL-EASD-EASOGuidelinesonthe ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 403 ManagementofMASLD DOI: in the 3 months preceding screening liver biopsy . [387–389] and only two of them report histological end- Therefore, it appears reasonable to use resmetirom ac- points . Despite several limitations and meth- cording to the same criteria in individuals already re- odological differences, there is a strong indication of bio- ceiving GLP1RA treatment. Given the burden of the chemicalefficacy(ALTreduction)andagoodsafetyprofile, disease at current epidemiological estimates and corre- but no proof of histological efficacy. A synthetic UDCA sponding financial strains on healthcare systems, future derivative, 24-norursodeoxycholic acid (norucholic acid), cost-effectiveness studies are warranted. has shown anti-cholestatic, anti-inflammatory and anti- Currently, resmetirom is the only MASH-targeting fibrotic properties in preclinical models and is be- drug with positive results from a registrational phase ing tested for MASH with initial results showing im- evolution of MASH-targeted treatment options in coming years , recommendations will need to be Obeticholic Acid continuously updated to reflect the latest evidence. Obeticholicacid(OCA)isanoral,syntheticanalogue of chenodeoxycholic acid designed to have a much Vitamin E stronger, nanomolar, potency as a FXR (farnesoid X VitaminEisalipid-solublevitaminactingasaperoxyl receptor) agonist than the native bile acid . The radical scavenger with antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, drug is approved at a 5 or 10 mg daily dose for second- and anti-apoptotic properties. It reduces de novo lipo- linetherapyinprimarybiliarycholangitisandwas genesis and therefore contributes to a reduction in liver developed for MASH at a higher dose (25 mg daily), lipid content. Higher dietary intake of vitamin E, as based on a phase II placebo-controlled trial showing measured by serum alpha tocopherol levels, was associ- improvement in fibrosis and liver enzymes after ated with reduced mortality from several chronic con- 18 months of treatment . These results were ditions (cardiovascular diseases, stroke, cancer) [379, confirmed in a large phase III registrational trial of 380], suggesting that current levels of dietary intake are individuals with MASH and significant fibrosis (cir- insufficient . Phenome-wide analyses in the general rhosis excluded) both at the interim analysis of 931 population suggested that increased dietary vitamin E individuals and at a subsequent analysis on 1,607 intake protects against MASLD, both clinically and ra- individualsbyadifferent,consensus,pathologists’panel diologicallydefined,particularlyinindividualswithT2D . At 25 mg daily, OCA achieved both a higher . Nonetheless, the impact of vitamin E supple- proportion of fibrosis improvement and a lower pro- mentationoncardiovascularmortalityorprostatecancer portion of worsening than placebo. Despite improved is still not settled and clinical intervention studies
