Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


the impact of vitamin E supple- proportion of fibrosis improvement and a lower pro- mentationoncardiovascularmortalityorprostatecancer portion of worsening than placebo. Despite improved is still not settled and clinical intervention studies have disease activity (hepatocellular ballooning and lobular shownnobenefit[382–384].ForindividualswithMASH inflammation) there was no significant difference in and bridging fibrosis or cirrhosis, case-control studies resolution of steatohepatitis. Dose-related pruritus and have shown that long-term exposure to vitamin E is increasesinLDLcholesterolareexpectedclasseffectsof associated with decreased risk of death, transplant and FXRagonistsbutadditionalconcernsoverthe hepatic decompensation . In the largest RCT to risk-benefit ratio (including hepatotoxicity and hepatic date, vitamin E supplementation (800 IU daily over events) resulted in a denial of accelerated approval, 2years)inindividualswithnon-diabeticMASHresulted leadingtodiscontinuationoftheclinicaloutcomephase in improvement in both steatosis and disease activity, of the registrational trial and of the development pro- whichwascorroboratedbyareductioninliverenzymes gramme in MASH. . Smaller studies have suggested reduction in liver enzymes but there is currently no clear data on fibrosis Omega-3 Polyunsaturated Fatty Acids improvement and no large phase III trial has been Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids have hepatic performed. anti-inflammatory and insulin-sensitising effects but are decreased in the livers of individuals with MASH . Ursodeoxycholic Acid However, supplementation with eicosapentaenoic acid Ursodeoxycholicacid(UDCA)isanaturalhydrophobic (inethylesterformulation)didnotshowanyhistological bile acid with wide hepatoprotective effects including an- efficacy vs. placebo in RCTs . Studies with tioxidant, immunomodulatory and anti-apoptotic proper- icosabutate, a structurally engineered omega 3 fatty acid ties. There are three larger, placebo-controlled trials of with distinct intracellular distribution and metabolism UDCA in MASH differing in the dose of UDCA used are ongoing. 404 ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 EASL/EASD/EASO DOI: Statins Statements MASLDinducesatherogenicdyslipidaemiaandstatin (cid:129) IncaseofsubstantialweightlossinducedbyGLP1RAs, therapy is therefore often indicated to prevent cardio- a hepatic histological benefit could be expected, al- vascular events . The safety of statins has been well thoughthishasnotbeenextensivelydocumentedsofar established in individuals with MASLD with (LoE 2, strong consensus). no increased risk of hepatotoxicity , yet many in- (cid:129) There is insufficient evidence to support using any dividuals with MASLD are undertreated . Case- other glucose-lowering drug class as MASH-targeted control studies have shown that statin intake is associ- therapies (LoE 5, strong consensus). ated with a reduced risk of MASLD, MASH and liver fibrosis,aswellasareductionintheriskofhepatic Incretin Mimetics decompensation, mortalityand HCC in individuals with Glucagon-likepeptide-1receptoragonists(GLP1RAs), cirrhosis . Nonetheless the efficacy of statins, spe- single or dual (i.e., glucose-dependent insulinotropic cifically for treating MASH, cannot be established, since polypeptide [GIP]-GLP1RAs), are approved for the there are no large RCTs of statins with histological treatment of T2D, with some
