Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


the newer dual and sodium-glucosecotransporter-2(SGLT2)inhibitorsor triple agonists. Tirzepatide (GLP1-GIP RA) has been metforminasMASH-targetedtherapies;however,they showntosignificantlyreducebothliverandvisceralfatin aresafetouseinMASLDandshouldbeusedfortheir those with T2D, in association with major weight loss respective indications, namely type 2 diabetes, heart (comparable to bariatric surgery) , and promising failure and chronic kidney disease (LoE 3, strong resultsonsteatohepatitisresolutionfromaphaseIIstudy recommendation, strong consensus). inMASHhavebeencommunicated.DualGLP1-glucagon EASL-EASD-EASOGuidelinesonthe ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 405 ManagementofMASLD DOI: RAs (cotadutide and efinopegdutide) have also been bition of the mitochondrial pyruvate carrier have shown shown to improve liver steatosis, liver enzymes and in- preliminary biochemical and antifibrotic responses with dexes of fibrosis in individuals with MASLD . improved side effect profiles . A phase IIb trial Weight-loss effects of survodutide are promising as showedadose-dependenthistologicalimprovementof are the preliminary histology data from a phase IIb steatohepatitisandfibrosiswiththepan-PPARagonist trial . lanifibranor , though side effects were reminis- Case-control studies have suggested that exposure to cent of PPARγ agonists, namely a 2.5% increase in GLP1RAs or SGLT2 inhibitors in people with T2D is weight, pedal oedema and mild anaemia. A large associated with a reduction in liver-related outcomes registrational,phaseIIItrialisongoing.Saroglitazar,a although the only available pilot trial of dual PPARα/γ agonist has been shown to improve semaglutide in individuals with cirrhosis did not dem- insulin resistance, liver steatosis and liver enzymes onstrate a histological improvement . and is approved in India for the treatment of T2D and MASH . Trials with liver histological Sodium-Glucose Co-Transporter-2 Inhibitors endpoints are ongoing. SGLT2 inhibitors are approved for T2D, with some (empagliflozin, dapagliflozin) also approved for Metformin chronic kidney disease and heart failure because of Small and uncontrolled initial trials of metformin their beneficial effect on cardiovascular and renal have shown an ALT reduction and an insulin- outcomes . They induce renal glucosuria, weight sensitising effect , but were not followed loss, blood pressure reduction, and protection from by sufficiently large and well-conducted RCTs. Cur- major cardiovascular outcomes, including heart fail- rently, there is no evidence that metformin alone can ure. The weight loss is due to renal energy loss and improve histology in MASH. As far as clinical out- reduction in fat mass, with reductions in both visceral comes, there is some indication from observational and abdominal subcutaneous adipose tissue . and case-control studies that, in people with T2D and pointsarecurrentlynotavailable.Trialsinpeoplewith formin may improve transplant-free survival (but not T2D (not all with MASLD and some excluding high the risk of hepatic decompensation), and reduce the ALTvalues)haveshownamoderatereductioninliver risk of primary liver and extrahepatic cancer
