Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


(cid:129) In adults with non-cirrhotic MASLD who have an ap- gastric content distally into the small intestine (gastric provedindication,bariatricsurgeryshouldbeconsidered, with diversion) like Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, bil- becauseitcaninducelong-termbeneficialeffectsonthe iopancreaticdiversionoroneanastomosisgastricbypass. liver and is associated with remission of type 2 diabetes Indications for bariatric surgery are BMI≥40 kg/m2, or andimprovementofcardiometabolicriskfactors(LoE3, BMI≥35–40 kg/m2 in the presence of associated co- strong recommendation, strong consensus). morbidities, orBMI≥30–35 kg/m2 if people have T2D (cid:129) InadultswithMASLD-relatedcompensatedadvanced and/or hypertension with poor control despite optimal chronic liver disease/compensated cirrhosis who have medical therapy . In the Asian population, the considered but careful evaluation (indication, type of individuals with BMI >25 kg/m2 . surgery, presence of clinically significant portal hy- Many prospective studies have shown that bariatric pertension) by a multidisciplinary team with experi- surgery induces stable weight loss, remission of T2D enceinbariatricsurgeryinthisparticularpopulationis , improvement in cardiovascular risk , and a EASL-EASD-EASOGuidelinesonthe ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 407 ManagementofMASLD DOI: reductionincancer(includinglivercancer)risk.In fibrosiswithvariousendoscopicbariatrictherapies. line with data from prospective studies, the large retro- However, most included studies were retrospective, with spectiveSPLENDORstudyfoundsignificantlylowerrates few histology data. of adverse liver-related outcomes and major adverse cardiovascular events in individuals who underwent metabolic surgery compared to non-surgical controls End-Stage Liver Disease and Liver Transplantation . Two meta-analyses that included more than 30 studies and enrolled more than 3,700 individuals with In adults with MASH-related cirrhosis, should dietary MASLD/MASH undergoing bariatric surgery showed andlifestylerecommendationsbeadaptedtotheseverity that Roux-en-Y gastric bypass was associated with the of liver disease, nutritional status, and sarcopenia? most individuals achieving improvement in steatohepa- titis, and had a greater impact on MASLD histology Recommendations compared with other procedures . Roux-en-Y (cid:129) InadultswithMASHcirrhosis,itisrecommendedthat gastric bypass improved or resolved liver fibrosis in 30% dietary and lifestyle recommendations be adapted to of individuals . Interestingly, the percentage of in- the severity of liver disease, nutritional status and the dividualswithimprovedsteatosisandhepaticfibrosiswas presence of sarcopenia/sarcopenic obesity (LoE 2, higherinAsiancountries.However,inastudywith strong recommendation, strong consensus). controlbiopsiesaftersurgery,advancedfibrosis(bridging (cid:129) In adults with sarcopenia, sarcopenic obesity or de- fibrosis or cirrhosis) persisted in 47% of individuals compensatedcirrhosis,itisrecommendedthatahigh- sometimeseven5yearsormorepost-surgeryanddespite proteindietisprovided,aswellasalate-eveningsnack. significant weight loss . A better understanding of (LoE 2, strong recommendation, consensus). weight loss-dependent and -independent effects on he- (cid:129) Moderateweightreductioncanbesuggestedinadults patic fibrosis is warranted. with compensated cirrhosis and obesity, with an Inanobservationalstudy,MASHwasresolvedin84% emphasisonhighproteinintakeandphysicalactivity of180individualswithclass2obesityandMASH5years to maintain muscle mass and reduce the risk of afterRoux-en-Ygastricbypass(66%),sleevegastrectomy sarcopenia (LoE 3, weak recommendation, strong (12%) or gastric banding (22%) . The BRAVES consensus). multicentre,open-label,randomisedstudydemonstrated histological resolution of MASH without worsening of Among individuals with cirrhosis awaiting
