Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


of afterRoux-en-Ygastricbypass(66%),sleevegastrectomy sarcopenia (LoE 3, weak recommendation, strong (12%) or gastric banding (22%) . The BRAVES consensus). multicentre,open-label,randomisedstudydemonstrated histological resolution of MASH without worsening of Among individuals with cirrhosis awaiting liver trans- fibrosis in 55% of those assigned to Roux-en-Y gastric plantation, malnutrition and sarcopenia (a progressive de- bypassor sleevegastrectomyat1-year follow-upvs.15% cline in skeletal muscle mass and function ) are in the lifestyle modification group in the intention-to- prevalent. Sarcopenia affects 50-60% of individuals treat analysis . In this open-label RCT, fibrosis andisassociatedwithhigherratesofwait-listcomplications, improvement by ≥1 stage without worsening of MASH morbidity,andmortality.Sarcopenicobesity,the after1yearwasachievedin37%and39%ofpatientsafter stateofdecreasedmusclemassinthesettingofincreasedfat Roux-en-Y gastric bypass and sleeve gastrectomy, re- mass,occursmainlyinMASH-relatedcirrhosisandisfound spectively, vs. 23% after lifestyle modification. However, in 20–35% of individuals with cirrhosis pre-and-post liver themajorityofstudyparticipantshadmildfibrosis. transplant.Obesityandsarcopenicobesityarerisk events related to surgery . Endoscopic bariatric/ . Evaluation for sarcopenia includes the skeletal metabolic therapies for weight loss are more affordable muscle index or psoas muscle area at the third lumbar and associated with a lower risk of complications. These vertebra, if a CT scan has been performed, and the mea- endoscopic procedures include intragastric balloon, en- surementoffrailtyusingtoolslikehandgriporliverfrailty doscopic sleeve gastroplasty, aspiration device, trans- index and other diagnostic procedures summarised in the liner,duodenalmucosaresurfacing,incisionlessmagnetic bolism (ESPEN)-EASO consensus statement . anastomosis system, and primary obesity surgery endo- Nutritional intervention improves nutritional sta- luminal. A meta-analysis that included 33 studies with tus, hepatic encephalopathy, survival, and quality of 1,710 individuals reporting liver-related endpoints (e.g., life in people with cirrhosis . In an RCT NITs, liver fibrosis, steatosis) showed a significant im- among individuals with decompensated cirrhosis, a 6- provement in parameters related to liver steatosis and month dietitian-supported home-based intensive 408 ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 EASL/EASD/EASO DOI: Table 10. Summary of protein, energy, and dietary pattern recommendations for adults with cirrhosis as indicated by medical associations’ Practice Guidance/Guidelines. In addition, individuals with cirrhosis must abstain from alcohol Society/ EASL 2019 ESPEN2019andJointESPEN/UEG AASLD 2021 Association guideline 2023 BMI Mixed BMIs Obese Mixed BMIs Obese Non-obese Obese (non- Status† (BMI >30 kg/m2) (BMI >30 kg/m2) hospitalised, clinically stable) Dailyenergy 35 kcal/kg >5–10% WR, 30-35 kcal/kg only WR. ≥35 kcal/kg 25-35 kcal/kg/day for actual BW (in moderately for DC. No need for body individuals with BMI nonobese hypocaloric diet Regular energy increased energy weight/day 30-40 kg/m2, and 20- individuals) (-500–800kcal/d) requirements intake 25 kcal/kg/day for in CC individuals with BMI ≥40 kg/m2. WR if medically required, under the supervision of a multidisciplinary team. Caution applied to prescribing weight loss
