Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


body weight/day, with a Recommendations daily recommended protein intake of 1.2–1.5 g/kg of (cid:129) Metformin can be used in adults with compensated body weight/day (sufficiently rich in branched-chain cirrhosis and preserved renal function but should not amino acids) to prevent or reverse muscle mass loss be used in adults with decompensated cirrhosis, es- (Table 10). In individuals with com- pecially when there is concomitant renal impairment, pensated cirrhosis and obesity, a reduction in body because of the risk of lactic acidosis (LoE 3, strong weight through lifestyle interventions, including recommendation, strong consensus). moderatecaloricrestrictionandsupervisedmoderate- (cid:129) Sulfonylureas should be avoided in adults with intensity physical exercise, has been shown to reduce hepatic decompensation because of the risk of hy- portal pressure and may prevent clinical decompen- poglycaemia (LoE 4, weak recommendation, sation . For individuals with cirrhosis and strong consensus). obesity, weight-loss interventions require special at- (cid:129) GLP1 receptor agonists can be used in adults with tention to avoid sarcopenia . Child-PughclassAcirrhosis,accordingtoitsindication To prevent accelerated starvation and the related (LoE 2, weak recommendation, strong consensus). proteolysis, there is a need to shorten fasting intervals (cid:129) SGLT2 inhibitors can be used in adults with Child- between meals by eating every 4-6 hours and having a Pugh class A and B cirrhosis (LoE 4, weak recom- late-evening snack . A late-evening snack con- mendation, consensus). taining complex carbohydrates and protein reduces (cid:129) Statinscanbeusedinadultswithchronicliverdisease, lipid oxidation, improves nitrogen balance, reduces including those with compensated cirrhosis; they skeletal muscle proteolysis, increases muscle mass, should be used in adults according to cardiovascular reduces hepatic encephalopathy and improves quality riskguidelinestoreducecardiovascularevents(LoE1, of life . strong recommendation, strong consensus). Physicalactivityandexerciseareanabolicstimulithat can improve muscle mass and function. Consistent Metformin improves ALT but not histological benefits of exercise demonstrated in RCTs include re- steatosis,inflammationandfibrosisinindividualswith versal of sarcopenia and improvements in aerobic ca- MASLD . However, observational data suggest a 410 ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 EASL/EASD/EASO DOI: potential protective effect against HCC . cirrhosis, 19% of those receiving simvastatin 40 mg Metformin may cause lactic acidosis through im- daily developed liver toxicity and rhabdomyol- pairmentofoxidativephosphorylation.Therisk ysis . of metformin-associated lactic acidosis is increased in individuals with renal impairment and hepatic de- InadultswithMASLD,cannon-invasivescores,serum compensation,especiallywhenbotharepresent. markers, liver stiffness measurements, and/or imaging The risk of sulfonylurea-induced hypoglycaemia is replace hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG) and increased in individuals with advanced liver disease. endoscopy in identifying individuals with clinically Gliclazide has significant hepatic metabolism. Hepato- significant portal hypertension and varices
