Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG) and increased in individuals with advanced liver disease. endoscopy in identifying individuals with clinically Gliclazide has significant hepatic metabolism. Hepato- significant portal hypertension and varices requiring toxicity has also been reported for glibenclamide and is treatment, respectively? rarely seen with gliclazide . Recommendations SGLT2 inhibitors increase glycosuria. Apart from (cid:129) Liver stiffness measurement (LSM) by vibration- an improvement in blood glucose, they reduce controlled transient elastography (VCTE) ≤15 kPa bodyweightandbloodpressure,andhavebeenshown plus platelet count ≥150 × 109/L may be used to rule to have beneficial cardiovascular effects, prevent outclinicallysignificantportalhypertension(CSPH)in progression of renal disease, and potentially even adults with MASLD (LoE 3, weak recommendation, improve ALT and MRI-measured intrahepatic tri- strong consensus). glyceride content . Drug exposure to empagli- (cid:129) IfCSPHispresent,non-selectivebeta-blockersmaybe flozin and dapagliflozin increased by 67-75% in in- started unless contraindicated (LoE 3, weak recom- dividuals with Child-Pugh class C cirrhosis. Drug mendation, strong consensus). exposure to canagliflozin increased by 96-111% in (cid:129) In adults with compensated advanced chronic liver individualswithChild-PughclassBcirrhosis,andthe diseasebutLSM≥20kPaand/orplateletcount<150× drug has not been studied in individuals with Child- 109/L, an upper gastrointestinal endoscopy should be Pugh class C cirrhosis. SGLT2 inhibitors should be performed to screen for varices unless they already used with caution or avoided in people with severe fulfilthecriteriatoinitiate non-selectivebeta-blockers renal impairment. (LoE 3, strong recommendation, strong consensus). DataontheuseofGLP1RAsinadvancedliverdisease are limited. In a small RCT of 71 participants with Statement compensated MASH-related cirrhosis, semaglutide at a (cid:129) ThethresholdofLSM≥25kPatoruleinCSPHisonly dose of 2.4 mg weekly was well tolerated and improved applicable to non-obese (BMI <30 kg/m2) adults with steatosis, liver enzymes, bodyweight and HbA . 1c MASLD; while obesity can confound LSM, current Future studies should also scrutinise the impact of evidence is insufficient to suggest the optimal non- GLP1RAs on adipose tissue and skeletal muscle mass, invasive test to rule in CSPH in adults with MASLD especially as sarcopenia is a risk factor for mortality in and obesity (LoE 3, strong consensus). individuals with cirrhosis. AccordingtotheBavenoVIIcriteria,onemayexclude Statins are important treatments to prevent car- diovascular events. Multiple observational studies CSPHwhenLSMis<15kPaandplateletcountisnormal suggest a benefit of statins on the prevention of HCC at≥150×109/L,andruleinCSPHwhenLSMis>25kPa and/or cirrhotic complications . ALT elevation .TheLSMcut-offof25kPahasbeenusedtorulein may be observed in up to 3% of individuals during CSPH in individuals with various liver diseases such as statintreatment,butsevereliverinjuryisrare,andliver chronicviralhepatitisandMASLD.However,both fibrosisprogressionhasnotbeenobserved.There underweight and obesity have been shown to confound arefewstudiesontheuseofstatinsin individualswith LSM,resultinginfalse-positivediagnosesofCSPH. decompensatedcirrhosis.OneRCTtestingsimvastatin The ANTICIPATE-NASH model, a function of LSM, inindividualswithvaricealhaemorrhagefailedtoshow plateletcountandBMI,mayhelpinassessingtheriskof an impact
