Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


be used to select individuals for aetiologies? upper gastrointestinal endoscopy to screen for varices. Severalstudieshaveconfirmedalowmissedrateof<5% for varices needing treatment when LSM is <20 kPa and Statement plateletcountis≥150×109/L.Thisnotionhasbeen (cid:129) Adults with MASLD are at increased risk of major confirmed in a multicentre cohort of individuals with cardiovascular events in the pre-, peri- and post- transplant phase (LoE 2, strong consensus). MASH-related cirrhosis . Spleen stiffness measurement by VCTE has been Recommendations showntocorrelatewithhepaticvenouspressuregradient (cid:129) Adults with MASLD who are candidates for liver and predict the presence of varices needing treatment transplantation should be evaluated by a multidisci- .Thereare,however,twocaveats.First,datain plinary team for cardiovascular and metabolic co- individualswithMASLDarelimited.Second,theexisting datalargelyusedthe50Hzprobe,whichwasnotdesigned morbiditiestomitigatetheriskofmajorcardiovascular for spleen stiffness measurement. The current dedicated eventsinthepre-,peri-andpost-transplantphase(LoE probeforspleenstiffnessmeasurementusesultrasoundat 3, strong recommendation, strong consensus). 412 ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 EASL/EASD/EASO DOI: Fig.5.Cardiovascularwork-upalgorithmin the evaluation of individuals with MASLD before liver transplantation. Adults with MASLD who are candidates for liver transplantation should be evaluated by a multidisciplinaryteamusingastepwiseand risk-adjustedcardiacwork-upalgorithmto mitigate the risk of major cardiovascular eventsinthepre-,peri-andpost-transplant phase (modified from ). CCTA, coronary computed tomography angiog- raphy; CV, cardiovascular; DSE, dobut- amine stress echocardiography; ECG, electrocardiogram; LT, liver transplanta- tion;TTE,transthoracicechocardiography. *Indicates suboptimal sensitivity in high- risk populations. (cid:129) Acomprehensivescreeningforcomorbiditiesinadults risk factors for death in individuals transplanted for with MASLD before liver transplantation (Table 11), MASH without HCC were recipient age, model for end- includingastepwiseandrisk-adjustedcardiacwork-up stageliverdiseasescoreandobesity.Individualswith algorithm (Fig. 5), may help to optimise management MASLD and T2D are at particular risk for all-cause of adults with MASLD before, during and after liver mortality and deaths due to cardiac and renal causes transplantation (LoE 5, weak recommendation, following liver transplantation . MASLD/MASH is strong consensus). independently associated with cardiovascular diseases, renal and thyroid dysfunction, OSA, and a hypercoagu- Adult liver transplant candidates with MASLD have lablestate,whichcanaffectperioperativeoutcomes. differentcharacteristicscomparedtocandidateswithother The risk of major (including fatal) cardiovascular events aetiologies of liver disease. In a large analysis of 68,950 appears to be particularly high in the first year after adultsundergoingfirstlivertransplantationbetween2002 transplantation, especially in the perioperative period and 2016 using the European Liver Transplant Registry . Despite the overall higher rate of risk factors in database, individuals transplanted for MASH were more adults with MASLD, long-term graft- and recipient sur- . Infections (24%) and cardio/cerebrovascular com- retrospective and registry analyses , sup- plications (5.3%) were the commonest causes of death in porting that candidates with MASLD can be safely individualswithMASHwithoutHCC.Independent transplanted, if properly managed . EASL-EASD-EASOGuidelinesonthe ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 413 ManagementofMASLD DOI: AlthoughMASH is considered an independent risk (cid:129)
