Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


causes of death in porting that candidates with MASLD can be safely individualswithMASHwithoutHCC.Independent transplanted, if properly managed . EASL-EASD-EASOGuidelinesonthe ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 413 ManagementofMASLD DOI: AlthoughMASH is considered an independent risk (cid:129) Implementation of dietary modification and super- factor for cardiovascular events similar to other vised physical exercise should be the first line man- traditional risk factors, there is insufficient evidence agement approach with the objective of reducing to support a fundamentally different approach to the BMI<40kg/m2andideally<35kg/m2(LoE1,strong pre-transplant cardiovascular risk assessment, as recommendation, strong consensus). stated in the ILTS consensus statement . (cid:129) In adults with end-stage MASLD listed for liver Therefore, a stepwise and risk-adjusted approach to transplantation,pharmacologicalweight-lossstrategies meticulously assess the presence of cardiovascular maybeconsideredaftercarefulrisk-benefitassessment diseases in liver transplant candidates with MASLD (e.g.presenceofsarcopenia,liverfunctionimpairment) seems appropriate (Fig. 5]. Scores such as the CAR- (LoE 4, weak recommendation, consensus). OLT (cardiovascular risk in orthotopic liver trans- (cid:129) In adults with compensated cirrhosis and without plantation) risk score have been suggested to support clinically significant portal hypertension, sleeve gas- trectomy prior to liver transplantation may be con- identifying liver transplant candidates at particular sidered as an alternative option to dietary or phar- risk for cardiovascular diseases, who warrant further macological weight loss (LoE 3, open recommenda- cardiological investigations . Since many indi- tion, strong consensus). viduals with MASLD do not achieve the target heart (cid:129) Incaseofdecompensatedcirrhosis,bariatricsurgeryis rate with (physical) cardiopulmonary exercise, phar- contraindicated and needs to be discussed in the macological stress tests will be the test of choice in context of considering liver transplantation (LoE 4, mostindividuals.Myocardialperfusionscintigraphyis open recommendation, strong consensus). also suitable to exclude relevant coronary artery dis- ease in liver transplant candidates . However, a Statement meta-analysis found low sensitivities of 28% for stress (cid:129) Weightlossandoptimisedtreatmentofcomorbidities echocardiography and 61% for myocardial perfusion beforetransplantationmayconferabenefitintermsof scintigraphyfordetectionofcoronaryarterydiseasein cardiovascularmorbidity,aswellaslong-termsurvival liver transplant candidates . Therefore, non- and reduced recurrence of severe MASLD after liver invasive angiography with coronary computed tomog- transplantation (LoE 3, strong consensus). raphy angiography (CCTA) may be an alternative in liver transplant candidates, particularly in those with While the impact of obesity on overall and graft MASLD who are at high risk of significant coronary survival is controversial , candidates for liver artery disease . In individuals with positive signals transplantation with obesity have higher waitlist mor- suspicion of coronary artery disease, coronary angiog- to be evaluated for liver transplantation . Currently raphy and, if indicated, revascularisation, should be BMI-based criteria are no
