Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


measures reduce the of conventional weight-loss strategies . Gastric or risk of MASLD recurrence and improve long-term oesophageal varices and clinically significant portal hy- outcomes compared with no intervention? pertension are an absolute contraindication Statements although successful placement of these balloons (16.5% (cid:129) In adults transplanted for MASLD-related end-stage weight loss and 11% portal pressure reduction) after liver disease, there is a high risk of recurrence of varicealeradicationbybandligationhasbeenreportedin MASLDafterlivertransplantation,especiallyinadults individuals with preserved liver function . Very with several metabolic risk factors (LoE 3, strong smallserieshavebeenreportedtodate,providingproofof consensus). principle of feasibility in select individuals with mean (cid:129) AdultstransplantedforMASLD-relatedend-stageliver weight loss of 11% at 6 months . disease are also at risk of cardiovascular events and Bariatric surgery is the best studied technique for kidney disease whichcan negativelyimpact long-term achieving weight loss in liver transplant candidates but survival (LoE 2, strong consensus). should only be considered after the failure of conser- (cid:129) NospecificissuesrelatedtoMASLDareknowntoalter vative measures . Individuals with decompensated choice of medication or target values; the risk of re- cirrhosis have a 10-fold higher risk of death after currence of severe, fibrotic steatohepatitis reinforces bariatricsurgerythanthosewithcompensatedcirrhosis the need to obtain optimal control of cardiometabolic and are thus not good candidates for this pro- risk factors (LoE 5, strong consensus). cedure. In individuals with compensated cirrhosis, (cid:129) The benefit of controlling weight and obesity-related portal hypertension should be assessed pre-operatively, comorbidities on recurrence of MASLD post-liver and bariatric surgery should be avoided in individuals with clinically significant portal hypertension (>10 transplant and on progression to advanced fibrosis is expected but needs to be demonstrated in dedicated mmHg),unlessperformedinhighlyselectedindividuals trials (LoE 5, strong consensus). andhighlyexperiencedcentres.Adjustablegastric bands should be avoided as should Roux-en-Y Gastric Recommendations Bypass (as it can induce malabsorption of immuno- (cid:129) In adults transplanted for MASLD-related end-stage suppressivemedicationandblocksendoscopicaccessto liver disease, therapeutic interventions to control thebiliarytree)leavingendoscopicsleevegastrectomyas obesity and related cardiometabolic complications are an acceptable procedure . In a series of 32 liver recommended (LoE 3, strong recommendation, transplantcandidateswithwellcompensatedcirrhosis(a strong consensus). third with MASLD alone) sleeve gastrectomy induced a (cid:129) After liver transplantation, standard non- medianweightlossof31kgat1yearaftertheprocedure, pharmacological dietary and lifestyle interven- with low morbidity, and allowed 88% of individuals to proceed with liver transplantation . tions should be universally implemented; phar- In individualswithdecompensated cirrhosislistedfor macological management of hypertension, type 2 livertransplantation,combinedlivertransplantationand diabetesandlipiddisordersshouldbeimplemented 521]. The procedure is reserved for individuals who strong recommendation, strong consensus). EASL-EASD-EASOGuidelinesonthe ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 415 ManagementofMASLD DOI: Box 1. Key research agenda in MASLD (selected
