Guidelines
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, individuals, risk, fibrosis, cid, strong, cirrhosis, consensus, loe, disease, recommendation, hcc, mash, studies


hypertension, type 2 livertransplantation,combinedlivertransplantationand diabetesandlipiddisordersshouldbeimplemented 521]. The procedure is reserved for individuals who strong recommendation, strong consensus). EASL-EASD-EASOGuidelinesonthe ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 415 ManagementofMASLD DOI: Box 1. Key research agenda in MASLD (selected topics). MASLD,metabolicdysfunction-associatedsteatoticliverdisease;MetALD,MASLDwithmoderatealcoholconsumption;NIT,non-invasive test;SLD, steatotic liverdisease. (cid:129) GLP1 receptor agonists may be considered to control with T2D and chronic kidney disease are at weight and obesity-related comorbidities, although the highest risk for cardiovascular events. specific trials in transplant recipients are needed (LoE In this setting, both recurrence of MASLD or de novo 5, weak recommendation, strong consensus). MASLDafterlivertransplantationarecommonconcerns. Unfortunately, available retrospective studies have major Weight gain occurs rapidly after liver transplantation (in the first 6 months), frequently leading to a high shortcomings, such as imprecise adjudication of pre- transplant aetiologies of terminal liver disease, no data prevalence of overweight and obesity (58% and 21%, onalcoholusepostlivertransplantationandnofollow-up respectively, at 3 years) . In addition, immuno- protocol biopsies. In a multicentric retrospective study of suppressive medications may have a deleterious impact 150 individuals specifically transplanted for MASLD- on metabolic function . Obesity after liver trans- related cirrhosis, 5-year recurrence rates for metabolic plantation is independently associated with a 2-fold syndrome, steatosis, steatohepatitis and advanced fibrosis higher mortality risk . Cardiovascular complica- (stages3and4)were86%,80%,60%and20%,respectively tionsarethesecondmostcommoncauseofnon-hepatic . The presence of ≥1 metabolic risk factor consid- mortality in liver transplant recipients , and those erably increased the risk of developing advanced fibrosis. 416 ObesFacts2024;17:374–443 EASL/EASD/EASO DOI: Descriptive data on de novo MASH (i.e. steatohepatitis technicaldifficulties(duetoadhesions)maylimitsurgical occurring in liver transplant recipients transplanted for feasibility. The advent of new anti-obesity drugs may diseases other than MASLD) is even more scarce and relegate bariatric surgery to a second-line therapy. conflicting , with a blurry distinction from re- currentMASLDduetoimpreciseadjudicationofMASLD as a primary cause of transplant. While some studies Future Directions reported that de novo MASH may be less severe histo- logically (advanced fibrosis, steatohepatitis) and less du- Despite the enormous advances in the field, many rable than recurrent MASH , the largest study with important areas on the management of MASLD require longfollow-updocumentedadvancedfibrosis/cirrhosisin further evidence to refine our clinical practice. Some of 20% of cases 3 years after liver transplantation . these areas, where further research is pressingly needed, Besides the risk of fibrosis progression, individuals are listed in Box 1. As MetALD has become a formally transplanted for MASH-related cirrhosis are at increased recognised entity, it is important to describe its natural risk of cardiovascular events , kidney disease course and
