MicrobiologyOpen
KEYWORDS: fungal, antibiotic, production, fungi, discovery, etal, secondary, metabolites, like, compounds, gene, aspergillus, new, bgcs, bioactive


and the production of novel bioactive compounds with 100times,resultinginasignificant30‐foldincreaseinpenicillin significantantimicrobialproperties(Etxebeste2021).Epigenetic yields . Additionally, the use of constitutive modifications using small molecular compounds to alter chro- promoters like gpdA andtef1 has been shown to enhance sec- matin structure have also shown promise in activating silent ondarymetaboliteproduction,indicatingthepotentialofstrong BGCs, although the response can be complex and variable promoters inindustrialapplications (Umemura et al.2020). . Furthermore, coexpression network ap- proaches have been utilized to identify and overexpress global and pathway‐specific transcription factors, thereby modulating 2.4.3 | Transcription FactorOverexpression secondary metaboliteproductionin fungilike Aspergillusniger (Cairns etal.2019). Overexpression of transcription factors represents a potent approach for the activation of BGCs within the fungal micro- biome, consequently facilitating the synthesis of essential sec- 2.4.2 | Promoter Engineering ondary metabolites. By overexpressing pathway‐specific transcription factors, researchers have successfully activated Promoter exchange techniques have become an effective these silent clusters, leading to the discovery of novel com- method to activate BGCs in antibiotic‐producing fungi by re- pounds. For instance, overexpression of the transcriptional placing native promoters with strong, inducible ones to over- regulator AspE in Aspergillus sp. CPCC 400735 activated a come the issue of silent or low‐expressing gene clusters in downregulated metabolic pathway, resulting in the production standard lab conditions, while an “always‐on” promoter en- of 13 asperphenalenone derivatives with significant anti‐ sures constant expression of antibiotic biosynthetic genes influenza A virus effects . Similarly, the . For instance, the easyPACId method overexpression of the xan BGC transcription factor AfXanC in demonstratedthatexchangingnativepromoterswithinducible Aspergillus fumigatus significantly increased xanthocillin pro- ones in Δhfq mutants of Photorhabdus, Xenorhabdus, and duction,althoughitsorthologPeXanCinPenicilliumexpansum Pseudomonas led to the exclusive production of corresponding unexpectedly promoted citrinin synthesis instead (Paul natural products (NPs) from targeted BGCs, facilitating NP etal.2022).Additionally,globalregulatorynetworkshavebeen identification and bioactivity testing . Addi- explored using coexpression network approaches, identifying tionally,theuseofendogenouspromoterlibraries,constructed multiple transcription factors that modulate secondary metab- throughrationaldesignandsite‐selectivemutagenesis,hasbeen olism in Aspergillus niger . Finally, the 5 of 19 transcriptionfactorTRI6inFusariumgraminearumwasshown (Geistodt‐Kiener et al. 2023; Mózsik et al. 2022; Qian to regulate multiple BGCs, both directly and indirectly, high- et al. 2022). Techniques such as transformation‐assisted lighting the complex regulatory networks governing secondary recombination and polycistronic vectors have been developed metabolism (Shostaket al.2020). to facilitate the seamless cloning and expression of these gene clustersinheterologoushosts(Y.Xuetal.2022).Forinstance, theuse ofAMA1‐based pYFAC vectorsin Aspergillus nidulans has shown high transformation efficiency and compound pro- 2.4.4 | CRISPR/Cas9 Genome Editing duction, allowing for the evaluation of different pathway in- termediates (Roux and Chooi 2022; Kanematsu and
