MicrobiologyOpen
KEYWORDS: fungal, antibiotic, production, fungi, discovery, etal, secondary, metabolites, like, compounds, gene, aspergillus, new, bgcs, bioactive


nidulans has shown high transformation efficiency and compound pro- 2.4.4 | CRISPR/Cas9 Genome Editing duction, allowing for the evaluation of different pathway in- termediates (Roux and Chooi 2022; Kanematsu and The CRISPR/Cas9 system, characterized by its ability to intro- Shimizu 2015). Additionally, the refactoring of biosynthetic duce precise genetic modifications, has been effectively em- pathways in engineered hosts like Aspergillus nidulans and ployed to activate silent BGCs. The versatility of CRISPR/Cas9 Aspergillus oryzae has led to the successful production of new extendstovariousCasproteins,suchasCas12,whichhavebeen compoundsandtheelucidationofbiosyntheticpathways(Roux explored for their unique properties in genome editing across andChooi2022;Hanetal.2023).InFigure1,wevisualizedthe different fungal species . The deletion of the possiblemoderntechniquestoincreasetheexpressionofBGCs negativetranscriptionalregulatormcrAinAspergilluswentiiled infungiandboosttheproductionofantibioticsthroughgenetic tothedifferentialproductionofvarioussecondarymetabolites. methods. This process revealed new compounds through additional genetic modifications . Additionally, the sys- tem has been applied to confirm the involvement of specific gene clusters in secondary metabolites biosynthesis, as dem- 2.5 | Challenges in Harnessing BGCs From onstratedinLophiotremasp.F6932,wheretargeteddeletionof Fungal Genomics the ketosynthase domain in the PAL gene cluster halted the production of palmarumycins . Moreover, Harnessing BGCs from fungal genomics presents several chal- InnovativeapproacheslikeCRISPRactivation(CRISPRa)using lengesdespitethevastpotentialfordiscoveringnovelbioactive dCas9‐VPR have further streamlined the activation of silent compounds. One primary issue is the difficulty in translating gene clusters, exemplified by the production of antimicrobial computational predictions of BGCs into actual compounds, as macrophorins in Penicillium rubens (Mózsik, Hoekzema, many BGCs remain transcriptionally silent under laboratory et al. 2021). The CRISPR/Cas12a‐mediated system, known as conditions, making it hard to identify and activate these path- CAT‐FISHING, has been developed to efficiently clone large ways(Valiante2023;D.Wang,Jin,etal.2023).Theregulatory BGCs, facilitating the discovery of new bioactive compounds circuitsgoverningtheexpressionofthesegeneclustersareoften . Furthermore, the use of Cas9‐based RNA‐ unknown, complicating efforts to exploit them in the lab guidedsynthetictranscriptionactivationsystems,suchasVPR‐ (Keller2019).Additionally,thesheervolumeofdatafromover dCas9, has proven effective in activating silent BGCs in Asper- 1000 sequenced fungal genomes has yet to be systematically gillus nidulans, even in regions of facultative heterochromatin analyzed, which hampers the rational discovery of new com- (Nanetal.2021;Schülleretal.2020).Thisapproachishelping pounds (Mohanta and Al‐Harrasi 2021; Schüller et al. 2022). scientiststoexplorebiggerandmorecomplexclustersthatwere Strategies like synthetic biology approaches are still in their previously too difficult to work with. In addition to activating infancyandrequirefurtherrefinement.Co‐expressionnetwork new pathways, CRISPR tools are also being used to improve approaches need to be integrated more broadly into drug dis- productionyields(Ansorietal.2023).Forexample,byknocking covery programs to move beyond the BGC paradigm and down competing metabolic pathways using CRISPR interfer- understandtheglobalregulatorynetworksinvolved(Soberanes‐ ence(CRISPRi),fungicanbeguidedtofocusmoreresourceson Gutiérrezetal.2022;S.Xuetal.2023).Moreover,currentBGC producing the desired antimicrobial compounds (Zhao discovery tools often overestimate cluster boundaries, necessi- etal.2021).MultiplexedCRISPRstrategies,whereseveralgenes tating improved methods like reinforcement learning to
