INFECTION AND IMMUNITY, Aug. 1980,p.808-813 Vol.29,No.2
KEYWORDS: mice, tropicalis, albicans, gastrointestinal, jhh-, antibiotics, inoculation, yeast, candida, cytarabine, host, visceral, inoculated, patients, ofmice


and did not explore bouraud dextrose broth and incubated for 48 h with possible differences in the ability of the orga- constant stirring at 35°C. The yeast cells were har- nisms to invade the gastrointestinal mucosa, a vestedbycentrifugation,countedinahemacytometer, recognized portal ofentry (5, 14-16). Such dif- andadjustedwithphysiological salinetoaconcentra- ferences could be of major importance since tion of 2 x 108 per ml. Serial 10-fold dilutions were cytoreductive agents and irradiation given to inoculated onto Sabouraud dextrose agar plates and patients with acute leukemia and patients un- incubated at 35°C for48 h to determine the number ofviableyeastcells. dergoingmarrowtransplantationarerecognized Animalpreparation. The preparativeregimen is to damage the gastrointestinal mucosa (2, 13) schematizedinFig. 1.Twodaysbeforeadministration and could potentiate entry into the circulation. ofthe fungus (day 1), polymixin B (50 mg/liter) was Thiscommunication describes amodelfortest- added to the drinking water. One day before yeast ing the comparative invasiveness of Candida inoculation (day 2), gentamicin (20 mg/kg per day VOL. 29, 1980 CANDIDIASIS AFTER GASTROINTESTINAL INOCULATION 809 Polymixin B in drinking wasadditionallyrecoveredfrombothliverandkidney water (50 mg/L) innumberscomparabletothelungs(>104coloniesper mgoftissue).Basedonthesefindings,miceinoculated Gentomicin (20mg/kg/da SO) perosfoundatsacrificeonday5tohave>104colonies permgoflungtissueorthosewithyeastsinlungtissue Cytorabine alone were excluded from analysis, since intrapulmo- (25mg/kg q3h x8 IP) naryimplantationcouldhaveoccurred. Candido Inoculum 4 Approximately 10% of mice pretreated with anti- Mice Sacrificed biotics and cytarabine which were inoculated per os with either Candida species died within 24 h after 2 3 4 5 inoculation.Thelungsofthesemicewereconsolidated Days atautopsy, andculturesgrew>104coloniespermgof tissue. These were also excluded from analysis since FIG. 1. Preparative drug regimen. SQ, Subcuta- theywerepresumedtohaveaspiratedyeastcellsinto neously; IP, intraperitoneally. thelungs. subcutaneously) inthreedivideddoseswasbegunand Thevirulenceofisolatesafterintravenous inocula- continued throughout the experiment. On day 2, cy- tion was determined by administration ofyeast cells tarabine was also begun on a schedule described by in 0.2 ml ofphysiological saline into the tail veinsof Leach et al. (10) at a dose of 25 mg/kg per dose mice, usinga 1-mltuberculinsyringewitha 27-gauge intraperitoneally at3-hintervalsforeighttotaldoses. needle. Groups offourmice each were given 106, 105, Effects of preparative regimen. Control mice or 104 yeast cells, and mortality was observed for 30 and cytarabine-treated mice were test bled from the days. The dose at which 50% of the mice died was retroorbital plexusat48haftercompletionofcytara- calculated bytheReed-Muenchmethod. bine (day5).Leukocytecountsweredeterminedman- Tissue examination. Sections from liver, kidney, ually with a hemocytometer after erythrocyte lysis. and lung tissue were weighed, suspended in2.0ml of Bloodsmearswere airdriedandstainedwithWright Hanksbalancedsaltsolution (MicrobiologicalAssoci- of small intestine were fixed in 10% formaldehyde, driven homogenizer (Bellco Glass, Inc., Vineland, imbeddedinparaffin,cutbyamicrotome,andstained N.J.). Undilutedand 1,000-folddiluted0.1-mlsamples by hematoxylin and eosin in selected mice 24 h
