Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: coronary, cas, ablation, left, cryoablation, case, artery, coronary artery, seri, patient, atrial fibrillation, atrial, left main, fibrillation, spasm


Open Access Case Report DOI: Left Main Coronary Artery Spasm During Cryoballoon Ablation for Atrial Fibrillation: A Case Report and Literature Review Review began [DATE] Review ended [DATE] Published [DATE] Amith Reddy Seri 1 , Fahimeh Talaei 1 , Mahmoud Ibrahim 1 , Mustafa Hassan 2 © Copyright 2024 Commons Attribution License CC-BY 4.0., which permits unrestricted use, distribution, Corresponding author: Amith Reddy Seri, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited. Abstract Although phrenic nerve and esophageal injury are commonly known risks associated with cryoablation, there is limited literature regarding coronary artery spasm (CAS), a serious and potentially fatal complication of cryoablation. We report the case of a 68-year-old Caucasian female who developed a left main CAS with a significant hemodynamic compromise during cryoablation. The patient, with a history of hyperlipidemia, hypertension, and symptomatic persistent atrial fibrillation, was admitted for elective catheter ablation for atrial fibrillation. During the ablation of the left superior pulmonary vein (LSPV), the patient developed severe hypotension and bradycardia. The patient's monitor revealed ST elevation, confirmed by a 12-lead ECG. Immediate coronary angiography revealed the left main coronary spasm, which improved with nitroglycerine administration with resolution of ST elevation and return of the patient’s hemodynamics to stability. The patient’s left main CAS was induced by cryoablation of LSPV. Literature on atrial fibrillation ablation- induced CAS is scant, but a Japanese study has shown that it occurs more commonly in cryoablation than in radiofrequency, hot balloon, or laser ablation. The study showed LSPV as the most common site of ablation right before the spasms happened. Further studies about this topic are needed to delineate further the risk factors and the precautions that could prevent CAS. In the meantime, prompt recognition and appropriate intervention are critical for a good patient outcome. Categories: Cardiology Keywords: case report, st segment elevation, coronary artery spasm, cryoballoon ablation, atrial fibrillation Introduction Pulmonary vein isolation (PVI) is a common procedure to treat atrial fibrillation. Well-known adverse effects of cryoablation are phrenic nerve injury and esophageal ulceration . There have been very few reports of coronary artery spasm (CAS), which could potentially be a life-threatening complication, as an adverse outcome of cryoablation . The few available reports have been mostly in Japanese patients, who are known to have a higher prevalence of vasospastic angina (VSA) when compared to other ethnic groups [4-6]. To our knowledge, there has been
