Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: coronary, cas, ablation, left, cryoablation, case, artery, coronary artery, seri, patient, atrial fibrillation, atrial, left main, fibrillation, spasm


been mostly in Japanese patients, who are known to have a higher prevalence of vasospastic angina (VSA) when compared to other ethnic groups [4-6]. To our knowledge, there has been only one case report of CAS in a Caucasian male patient following radiofrequency catheter ablation and no case report of periprocedural CAS in a Caucasian female patient undergoing cryoablation . Here, we report the case of a 68-year-old Caucasian female who, while undergoing catheter cryoablation for persistent atrial fibrillation, developed a severe left main coronary spasm with significant hemodynamic compromise. This article was previously posted to Authorea as a preprint in April 2023. Case Presentation A 68-year-old Caucasian woman with a history of hyperlipidemia, hypertension, and symptomatic persistent atrial fibrillation who had failed cardioversion was brought in for catheter ablation. She has no history of coronary artery disease. A transeptal puncture was performed, and the patient was properly anticoagulated. The left superior pulmonary vein (LSPV) was the first vein to be ablated. The cryoballoon was inflated for three minutes, and the lowest temperature achieved was 48oC, following which the patient developed severe hypotension (systolic BP in the 50s mmHg) and profound bradycardia with the heart rate down to the 20s. The patient required temporary pacing after failing to respond to atropine (Figure 1 A). Cardiac tamponade was excluded. The 12-lead ECG revealed global ST-segment elevation (Figure 1 B). Immediate coronary angiography revealed a significant spasm of the left main coronary artery with no signs of air embolism (Figure 2). The right coronary artery showed no evidence of spasm. After nitroglycerine administration, the returned to baseline, and the EKG showed resolution of the ST elevation and bradycardia (Figure 1 C). The procedure was resumed with no further complications. How to cite this article Seri A, Talaei F, Ibrahim M, et al. (January 08, 2024) Left Main Coronary Artery Spasm During Cryoballoon Ablation for Atrial Fibrillation: A Case Report and Literature Review. Cureus 16(1): e51902. DOI FIGURE 1: ECG of the patient A: 12-lead ECG showing bradycardia initially followed by ventricular paced rhythm; B: ECG showing global ST- segment elevation; C: ECG showing resolution of ST-segment elevation after nitroglycerin administration 2024 Seri et al. Cureus 16(1): e51902. DOI 2 of 6 FIGURE 2: Left heart coronary angiogram showing significant spasm of the left main coronary artery 2024 Seri et al. Cureus 16(1): e51902. DOI 3 of 6 FIGURE 3: Left heart coronary
