Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: coronary, cas, ablation, left, cryoablation, case, artery, coronary artery, seri, patient, atrial fibrillation, atrial, left main, fibrillation, spasm


2: Left heart coronary angiogram showing significant spasm of the left main coronary artery 2024 Seri et al. Cureus 16(1): e51902. DOI 3 of 6 FIGURE 3: Left heart coronary angiogram showing resolution of the spasm after intracoronary nitroglycerin Discussion In this report, we describe the case of a Caucasian female patient who developed a left main CAS during cryoablation of the LSPV for the treatment of persistent atrial fibrillation. Coronary artery spasm during cryoablation-PVI was described in several case reports, mostly in the Asian population . To the best of our knowledge, this is the first reported case in a Caucasian female. Additionally, most of the coronary spasms were reported in the right coronary artery, and very few cases described left main coronary spasms with such severe hemodynamic effects. Lehrmann et al. were the first to report a case of CAS in a male. In their report, the EKG showed a pattern of left main stem occlusion while performing right superior pulmonary vein cryoablation . A multicenter, large-scale study in the Japanese population by Nakamura et al. on CAS related to atrial fibrillation ablation reported a higher prevalence of CAS in cryoablation-PVI (0.34%) compared to radiofrequency, hot balloon, or laser balloon PVI ablation (0.04%, 0%, and 0%, respectively). The same study reported LSPV as the most common site of ablation (64% in cryoablation and 75% in radiofrequency ablation) right before spasms happened . Interestingly, in this study, 100% of patients with ST-elevation during LSPV cryoablation showed EKG changes in inferior leads, and 98% of all CAS cases related to all atrial fibrillation ablation approaches were male. There are two possible mechanisms for a CAS during atrial fibrillation ablation. The first possible mechanism is that the application of a cryoablation catheter may have caused a direct cooling injury to the adjacent coronary arteries . This is supported by the fact that CAS has been reported to occur near the cooling site after the application of a cryoablation catheter . There is also available data revealing the occurrence of CAS during hypothermia therapy with ice packs and chilled intravenous infusion after successful cardiopulmonary resuscitation, which supports the first mechanism . It is possible that blood cooled by the cryoballoon in the left atrium flows through the coronary arteries and stimulates the coronary endothelium, causing CAS. Alternatively, the second possible mechanism, which was proposed in radiofrequency ablation, is a possible autonomic nerve
