Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: coronary, cas, ablation, left, cryoablation, case, artery, coronary artery, seri, patient, atrial fibrillation, atrial, left main, fibrillation, spasm


left atrium flows through the coronary arteries and stimulates the coronary endothelium, causing CAS. Alternatively, the second possible mechanism, which was proposed in radiofrequency ablation, is a possible autonomic nerve activity imbalance leading to CAS. Epicardial sites near the right inferior pulmonary vein 2024 Seri et al. Cureus 16(1): e51902. DOI 4 of 6 are associated with a ganglionated plexus (GP), the so-called right lower GP. Endocardial radiofrequency ablation can affect the epicardial GP through a thermal injury that may cause an imbalance in autonomic nervous activity, frequently stimulating the parasympathetic nerve, which could, in turn, induce vasospasm of the coronary artery . The latter theory was used to describe the CAS happening far from the site of ablation in the Asian population . Since ST elevation happened when we delivered cooling energy adjacent to the LSPV and responded immediately to intracoronary nitroglycerine, we believe that the mechanism causing the severe CAS was most probably cryoenergy-induced blood cooling, causing transient constriction in the left main coronary artery. Lehrmann et al. suggested that there might be a racial difference in the pathophysiology of CAS happening during cryoablation between the Asian and Caucasian ethnicities. Although the case by Lehrmann et al. presented with a near-fatal CAS induced by cryoballoon ablation , the patient in the present case was diagnosed in the early phase, which enabled us to proceed with cryoablation after CAS. Conclusions Coronary artery spasms can occur during cryoballoon ablation in patients with no prior history of vasospasms or no prior smoking history. A 12-lead EKG should be continuously monitored throughout the procedure for any ischemic changes. If any ischemic changes are noted to be persistent, consider coronary angiography. Further studies about this topic are needed to further identify the risk factors and precautions that could prevent CAS. Additional Information Author Contributions All authors have reviewed the final version to be published and agreed to be accountable for all aspects of the work. Concept and design: Amith Reddy Seri, Fahimeh Talaei, Mahmoud Ibrahim, Mustafa Hassan Acquisition, analysis, or interpretation of data: Amith Reddy Seri, Fahimeh Talaei, Mahmoud Ibrahim, Mustafa Hassan Drafting of the manuscript: Amith Reddy Seri, Fahimeh Talaei, Mahmoud Ibrahim, Mustafa Hassan Critical review of the manuscript for important intellectual content: Amith Reddy Seri, Fahimeh Talaei, Mahmoud Ibrahim, Mustafa Hassan Supervision: Amith Reddy Seri, Mustafa Hassan Disclosures Human subjects: Consent was obtained or waived by all participants in this study.
