Chronic prostatitis
KEYWORDS: men, chronic, prostatitis, rct, placebo, pain, daily, abacterial, treatment, effects, drugs, weeks, cpps, outcome, review


CP/CPPS v 20% with no CP/CPPS; P <0.001). Further studies are necessary to determine whether these factors play a role in the pathogenesis of CP/CPPS. PROGNOSIS The natural history of untreated chronic bacterial and abacterial prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS) remains ill-defined. Chronic bacterial prostatitis may cause recurrent UTI in men, whereas CP/CPPS does not. Several investigators have reported an association between chronic bacterial prostatitis, CP/CPPS, and infertility. One study found that CP/CPPS had an impact on quality of life similar to that of angina, Crohn's disease, or a previous MI. AIMS OF To relieve symptoms and eliminate infection where present, with minimum adverse effects. INTERVENTION © BMJ Publishing Group Ltd 2011. All rights reserved. ........................................................... 2 Men's health Chronic prostatitis scores, and urodynamics; does not include bacteriological cure rate);quality of life; bacteriolog- ical cure rate (bacterial prostatitis; clearance of previously documented organisms from prostatic secretions in question on chronic bacterial prostatitis); recurrence rate; adverse effects of treatment. METHODS Clinical Evidence search August 2010.The following databases were used to identify studies for this systematic review: Medline 1966 to September 2010, Embase 1980 to September 2010, and The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews Issue 8 (August 2010 [online]) (1966 to date of issue). An additional search within The Cochrane Library was carried out for the Database of Ab- stracts of Reviews of Effects (DARE) and Health Technology Assessment (HTA).We also searched for retractions of studies included in the review. Abstracts of the studies retrieved from the initial search were assessed by an information specialist. Selected studies were then sent to the contrib- utor for additional assessment, using predetermined criteria to identify relevant studies. Study design criteria for inclusion in this review were: published systematic reviews of RCTs and RCTs in any language, at least single blinded, and containing >20 individuals of whom >80% were followed up. There was no minimum length of follow-up required to include studies.We excluded all studies described as "open", "open label", or not blinded unless blinding was impossible.We included systematic reviews of RCTs and RCTs where harms of an included intervention were studied, ap- plying the same study design criteria for inclusion as we did for benefits. In addition, we use a regular surveillance protocol to capture harms alerts from organisations such as the FDA and the MHRA, which are added to the reviews as required.To aid readability of the numerical data in our reviews, we round
