Chronic prostatitis
KEYWORDS: men, chronic, prostatitis, rct, placebo, pain, daily, abacterial, treatment, effects, drugs, weeks, cpps, outcome, review


harms alerts from organisations such as the FDA and the MHRA, which are added to the reviews as required.To aid readability of the numerical data in our reviews, we round many percentages to the nearest whole number. Readers should be aware of this when relating percentages to summary statistics such as relative risks (RRs) and odds ratios (ORs).We have performed a GRADE evaluation of the quality of evidence for interventions included in this review (see table, p 37).The categorisation of the quality of the evidence (high, moderate, low, or very low) reflects the quality of evidence available for our chosen outcomes in our defined populations of interest. These categorisations are not necessarily a reflection of the overall of choice may represent only a small subset of the total outcomes reported, and population included, in any individual trial. For further details of how we perform the GRADE evaluation and the scoring system we use, please see our website (www.clinicalevidence.com). QUESTION What are the effects of treatments for chronic bacterial prostatitis? OPTION ANTIMICROBIAL DRUGS (ORAL) FOR CHRONIC BACTERIAL PROSTATITIS ............ • For GRADE evaluation of interventions for Chronic prostatitis, see table, p 37. • Oral antimicrobial drugs are likely to be beneficial, although studies comparing them with placebo or no treatment have not been found. • Clinical success rates with oral antimicrobials have reached about 70% to 90% at 6 months in studies comparing different regimens. • Trimethoprim–sulfamethoxazole (co-trimoxazole) and quinolones are most commonly used and seem the most beneficial. Benefits and harms Oral antimicrobial drugs versus placebo or no antimicrobial drugs: We found no systematic review or RCTs. - - Oral antimicrobial drugs versus each other: We found no systematic review but found 4 RCTs. - Symptom improvement Oral antimicrobial drugs compared with each other Lomefloxacin or levofloxacin seem as effective as ciprofloxacin improvement without need for additional antimicrobial drugs) at 6 months (moderate-quality evidence). © BMJ Publishing Group Ltd 2011. All rights reserved. ........................................................... 3 Men's health Chronic prostatitis Ref Results and statistical Effect (type) Population Outcome, Interventions analysis size Favours Clinical success chronic bacterial RCT 61/93 (67%) with lomefloxacin 95% CI –23.6% to +6.0% prostatitis 400 mg daily for 4 weeks P = 0.16 64/89 (72%) with ciprofloxacin 500 mg twice daily for 4 weeks Not significant Clinical success was defined as clinical cure (baseline symptoms completely resolved) or improve- ment (symptoms improved but not completely resolved) chronic bacterial
