Chronic prostatitis
KEYWORDS: men, chronic, prostatitis, rct, placebo, pain, daily, abacterial, treatment, effects, drugs, weeks, cpps, outcome, review


mg daily for 4 weeks 10/45 (22%) with levofloxacin 500 mg daily for 4 weeks Not significant Adverse effects were mostly mi- nor in nature (diarrhoea, skin rash, gastric pain, headache, nausea), although 1 person in the levofloxacin group withdrew from the study owing to gastric pain 63 men with Nausea prostate infection RCT 5/32 (15%) with doxycycline caused by Ure- 100 mg twice daily for 3 weeks aplasma ure- alyticum no data reported with placebo See further information on studies - - - Further information on studies In this RCT, people receiving azithromycin took a total dose of 4.5 g over 3 weeks (500 mg was taken on each of 3 consecutive days a week).The authors report that the "rare occurrence of side effects in patients with the rather high total dosage of azithromycin is attributed to the intermittent administration of azithromycin". - - Comment: We found data from retrospective case series about the bacteriological cure rates of different an- treatment, or other treatments. Trimethoprim–sulfamethoxazole (co-trimoxazole): One non-systematic review identified 8 retrospective case series in 1140 men with bacteriologically confirmed prostatitis treated with trimethoprim–sulfamethoxazole (trimethoprim 160 mg plus sul- © BMJ Publishing Group Ltd 2011. All rights reserved. ........................................................... 6 Men's health Chronic prostatitis famethoxazole 800 mg twice daily for 10–140 days). The studies reported cure rates of 0% to 71%. Over 30% of men were cured when treated for at least 90 days.The review did not report on adverse effects. Quinolones: One non-systematic review summarised three retrospective case series in 106 men treated with norfloxacin (400 mg twice daily for 10, 28, and 174 days). The studies reported cure rates of 64% to 88%. Amoxicillin–clavulanic acid (co-amoxiclav) and clindamycin: One case series included 50 men resistant to empirical treatment with quinolones. The expressed prostatic secretions from 24 of these men exhibited high colony counts of gram-positive and gram- negative anaerobic bacteria, either alone (18 men) or in combination with aerobic bacteria (6 men). After treatment with either amoxicillin–clavulanic acid or clindamycin for 3 to 6 weeks, all men had a decrease or total elimination of symptoms, and no anaerobic bacteria were detected in prostatic secretions. Higher cure rates with quinolones may be explained by greater penetration into the prostate. We reviewed only studies that used standard methods to localise infection to the prostate. Clinical guide: Most clinicians agree that antimicrobial drugs are the preferred treatment for chronic bacterial
