Chronic prostatitis
KEYWORDS: men, chronic, prostatitis, rct, placebo, pain, daily, abacterial, treatment, effects, drugs, weeks, cpps, outcome, review


evaluation of interventions for Chronic prostatitis, see table, p 37. • The effectiveness of alpha-blockers in people with abacterial prostatitis is inconclusive; the data fluctuate between effective and ineffective, most probably because of the heterogeneity of participants in the RCTs we identified. Benefits and harms Alpha-blockers versus placebo: We found two systematic reviews (search date 1999, 2 RCTs, 50 men; search date not reported, 6 RCTs, no RCTs included in the previous review, 386 men). Neither review performed a meta-analysis.The second system- Index [NIH-CPSI] was first available for use. The review reported that meta-analysis of the data was unable to be performed owing to differences in data reporting and outcome interpretation, despite all studies having used the NIH-CPSI to monitor response.Two RCTs identified by this review were published as abstracts and are therefore not reported here; we report the results of 6 RCTs identified by the reviews that met Clinical Evidence inclusion cri- teria. We also found one additional RCT, one subsequent quasi-randomised trial, and one large subsequent multicentre RCT. - Symptom improvement Compared with placebo Alpha-blockers seem no more effective at improving measured NIH-CPSI scores with a similar response rate in both groups at 12 weeks (moderate-quality evidence). Ref Results and statistical Effect (type) Population Outcome, Interventions analysis size Favours Symptom improvement 20 people with Maximal flow time (change P = 0.01 chronic abacterial from baseline) RCT prostatitis from 15.4 mL/second to In review 20.3 mL/second with alfuzosin 2.5 mg three times daily alfuzosin from 13.9 mL/second to 15.6 mL/second with placebo See further information on studies for details on other outcomes as- sessed by RCT 30 people with Proportion of people with no P <0.05 chronic abacterial or reduced pain after prostatic RCT prostatitis massage , 6 weeks phenoxybenza- In review 6/12 (50%) with phenoxybenza- mine mine 10 mg twice daily 2/17 (12%) with placebo 70 men with chron- Change in total National Insti- Significance not assessed ic abacterial pro- tutes of Health-Chronic Pro- RCT statitis statitis Symptom Index [NIH- 3-armed In review CPSI] score from baseline, 6 trial months The remaining arm –9.9 with alfuzosin 5 mg twice evaluated standard daily for 6 months treatment (hot sitz baths plus anti-in- –3.8 with placebo flammatory drugs) 40 men in this analysis 30 men who did not wish to be entered into the randomisation received standard treatment © BMJ Publishing Group Ltd 2011. All rights reserved. .......................................................... 12 Men's
