Chronic prostatitis
KEYWORDS: men, chronic, prostatitis, rct, placebo, pain, daily, abacterial, treatment, effects, drugs, weeks, cpps, outcome, review


or RCTs of sufficient quality (see comment). - - - Further information on studies The RCT identified by the first systematic review found no significant difference in outcomes other than maximal flow time from baseline (insufficient information was presented to assess comparative effects on symptom scores). © BMJ Publishing Group Ltd 2011. All rights reserved. .......................................................... 18 Men's health Chronic prostatitis - - Comment: Alpha-blockers versus placebo: The largest randomised, multicentre, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to date showed no overall difference between placebo and alpha-blocker therapy (alfuzosin 10 mg/day). Both groups showed a similar response rate, defined as a decrease of 4 or more points on the NIH-CPSI of 49.3% at 12 weeks. Other trials looked at response periods greater than 3 months; thus, it is difficult to generalise the results to longer periods of treatment. Additionally, people with a lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) component may be a subgroup that would benefit, although the literature does not currently support this premise. Alpha-blockers versus each other or versus antimicrobials: We found one 5-armed open-label RCT that did not meet the inclusion criteria for Clinical Evidence. The RCT divided participants into groups depending on prostatitis type (3A or 3B), and randomly allocated them to treatment with either tamsulosin, treatment with a combination of tamsulosin plus levofloxacin, or, for only the people with type 3A disease, levofloxacin alone. All groups had a de- crease in symptom scores, but improvements in symptom scores in the combined treatment group were superior to those in the single treatment groups. Combination therapy improved pain, urinary symptoms, and quality-of-life scores compared with levofloxacin alone (P <0.05).The authors conclude that tamsulosin and levofloxacin are both effective in the treatment of, and may have an additional effect in, the treatment of non-bacterial prostatitis. Drug safety alert: A drug safety alert has been issued on risk of intraoperative floppy iris syndrome during cataract surgery with tamsulosin ( sources/con2031031.pdf). Clinical guide: Most clinicians believe that alpha-blockers are the appropriate first-line treatment for CP/CPPS, despite the lack of strong RCT evidence. However, if alpha-blockers fail to improve symptoms, as determined by the NIH-CPSI, alternative treatments should be investigated. OPTION 5 ALPHA-REDUCTASE INHIBITORS FOR CHRONIC ABACTERIAL PROSTATITIS/CHRONIC PELVIC PAIN SYNDROME....................................................... • For GRADE evaluation of interventions for Chronic prostatitis, see table, p 37. • We don't know whether 5 alpha-reductase inhibitors reduce symptoms in men with CP/CPPS. Benefits and harms 5 alpha-reductase inhibitors versus
