Chronic prostatitis
KEYWORDS: men, chronic, prostatitis, rct, placebo, pain, daily, abacterial, treatment, effects, drugs, weeks, cpps, outcome, review


men Median score improvement in P = 0.0046 the National Institutes of RCT Health-Chronic Prostatitis Symptom Index (NIH-CPSI) for mepartricin quality of life –5 with mepartricin 40 mg daily –1 with placebo - Adverse effects - Ref Results and statistical Effect (type) Population Outcome, Interventions analysis size Favours Adverse effects 26 men Adverse effects RCT with mepartricin 40 mg daily with placebo © BMJ Publishing Group Ltd 2011. All rights reserved. .......................................................... 23 Men's health Chronic prostatitis Ref Results and statistical Effect (type) Population Outcome, Interventions analysis size Favours The RCT found 2 cases of mild epigastric pain and nausea. However, no one discontinued treatment because of adverse effects - - - Further information on studies - - Comment: Mepartricin has been shown to form a complex with oestrogen when taken orally, leading to faecal oestrogen excretion and lower plasma oestrogen levels. Clinical guide: Mepartricin remains an experimental drug, but some physicians believe that it should be considered as a second-line treatment if alpha-blockers fail to provide symptomatic relief. OPTION NSAIDS FOR CHRONIC ABACTERIAL PROSTATITIS/CHRONIC PELVIC PAIN SYNDROME.. • For GRADE evaluation of interventions for Chronic prostatitis, see table, p 37. • We don't know whether NSAIDs are more effective than placebo in reducing symptoms in men with CP/CPPS. Benefits and harms NSAIDs versus placebo: We found one RCT. - Symptom improvement Compared with placeboWe don't know whether NSAIDs are more effective at improving symptoms in men with chronic abacterial prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS) (very low-quality evidence). Ref Results and statistical Effect (type) Population Outcome, Interventions analysis size Favours Symptom improvement 64 men with NIH Proportion of men with de- P <0.02 category 3A chron- crease in National Institutes of RCT ic pelvic pain syn- Health-Chronic Prostatitis drome Symptom Index (NIH-CPSI) score of 25% or more, 6 weeks See further informa- celecoxib tion on studies 78% with celecoxib 31% with placebo Absolute numbers not reported 64 men with NIH Proportion of men with de- Reported as significant category 3A chron- crease in NIH-CPSI score of RCT P value not reported ic pelvic pain syn- 25% or more, 8 weeks drome 31% with celecoxib celecoxib See further informa- 19% with placebo tion on studies Absolute numbers not reported 64 men with NIH Proportion of people with Sub- Significance not assessed category 3A chron- jective Global Assessment RCT ic pelvic pain syn- (SGA) improvement of 25% or drome more, 6 weeks
