Chronic prostatitis
KEYWORDS: men, chronic, prostatitis, rct, placebo, pain, daily, abacterial, treatment, effects, drugs, weeks, cpps, outcome, review


prostatic massage in combination with antimicrobial drugs versus antimicrobial drugs alone in men with CP/CPPS. - Symptom improvement Compared with antimicrobial drugs aloneProstatic massage plus antimicrobial drugs and antimicrobial drugs alone are equally effective at 4 months at improving symptoms (measured by NIH-CPSI score) in men with chronic abac- terial prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS) (moderate-quality evidence). Ref Results and statistical Effect (type) Population Outcome, Interventions analysis size Favours Symptom improvement 81 men Final mean National Institutes P >0.05 of Health-Chronic Prostatitis RCT Symptom Index (NIH-CPSI) scores, 4 months 11.3 with prostatic massage (3 Not significant times a week for 4 weeks) plus antimicrobial drug 12.4 with antimicrobial drugs alone - Recurrence rate - - No data from the following reference on this outcome. - Quality of life - - No data from the following reference on this outcome. - Adverse effects - - No data from the following reference on this outcome. - - - Further information on studies - - Comment: None. GLOSSARY Prostatic massage Digital pressure applied to the prostate through the rectum. Sitz bath A warm water bath taken in the sitting position.The water covers only the hips and buttocks. International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) A patient questionnaire that is essentially the same as the American Urological Association Symptom Index (AUA-SI) questionnaire. © BMJ Publishing Group Ltd 2011. All rights reserved. .......................................................... 34 Men's health Chronic prostatitis Low-quality evidence Further research is very likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect and is likely to change the estimate. Meares–StameyThe Meares–Stamey test involves collection of 4 sequential urine samples.Two are taken before prostatic massage; the first from the initial 10 mL and the second from the mid-stream urine. After prostatic massage, the expressed prostatic secretions are collected, as is the initial 10 mL of urine passed after massage.When bacteria, inflammatory cells, or both are significantly higher in the two samples after prostatic massage, the pathology is con- sidered to be specific to the prostate. Moderate-quality evidence Further research is likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect and may change the estimate. NIH classification system Category I:acute bacterial prostatitis is an acute infection of the prostate. Category II: chronic bacterial prostatitis is a recurrent infection of the prostate. Category III:chronic non-bacterial prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS) is where there is no demonstrable infection. Subgroups of
