R E S E A R C H A R T I C L E
KEYWORDS: cid, cid cid, cases, variants, case, variant, using, fig, germany, analysis, disorder, ichthyosis, movementdisorders, vol, movementdisorders vol


the University of Medical Center Göttingen complexlipidsinvolvedinmyelinformationandthemain- (approval number 2516). Trio whole exome sequencing tenance of the epidermal water barrier. The synthesis of was conducted at the Cologne Center for Genomics VLCFAs involves two primary pathways: one originating synthesis via fatty acid (FA) elongation. This elongation usingmethods describedpreviously.8 process takes place in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)membranethroughafour-stepcyclicprocess,includ- Cell Culture ing condensation, reduction, dehydration, and reduction, Fibroblastsfromcase1weremaintainedasmonolayer ultimately resulting in a fatty acid elongated by two car- cultures in Dulbecco’s modified Eagle’s medium (Merck, bons. The initial andrate-limiting step is the condensation Germany) (DMEM/low glucose) supplemented with of acyl-CoA with malonyl-CoA, which donates two car- 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS), 2mML-glutamine and bon units, leading to the production of 3-ketoacyl-CoA. 100U/mL penicillin, 100μg/mL streptomycin. Cells This reaction is catalyzed bythe elongase enzymes known wereincubatedat37(cid:1)Cinanatmosphereof5%CO2. as elongation of VLCFAs (ELOVLs). Currently, seven mammalian ELOVL proteins (ELOVL1-ELOVL7) have been identified, each exhibiting characteristic yet partially Polymerase Chain Reaction and Sanger overlapping substrate specificities toward acyl-CoAs, as Sequencing well as different tissue expression and developmental pat- Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) of genomic DNA terns.2,3ELOVL1isactivetowardsaturatedandmonoun- and complementary DNA (cDNA) sequences flanking saturated C20- to C24-CoAs in vitro, therefore, c.462G>A variant of ELOVL1 was performed using contributing to the generation of C22 to C26-VLCFAs.4 target-specific primer sets. Detailed primer information To date, only one pair of siblings with homozygous vari- is available in Supplementary Table S4. PCR products ants in ELOVL1, who presented with a pronounced con- were purified and subsequently processed for direct dye genital ichthyosis and a complex movement disorder, and terminator sequencing with BigDye Terminator Ready two unrelated individuals with an identical heterozygous Reaction chemistry 3.1 on the Applied Biosystem 3500 missense variant presenting with mild ichthyosis and pro- geneticanalyzer(ThermoFisher,Germany). gressive spasticity of the lower limb, have been reported.5-7Inthisarticle,wedescribetheclinicalfindings Quantitative Reverse Transcription Polymerase in a further seven patients with homozygous variants in Chain Reaction ELOV1, thereby expanding the known phenotypic spec- The quantitative reverse transcription polymerase trum and highlighting the variability of features associated chain reaction (RT-qPCR) was performed as previously with these variants. Furthermore, we demonstrate the bio- described.8 Data were normalized to GAPDH, used as chemical consequences of one of the variants on VLCFA a reference gene, and mRNA expression levels are pres- metabolism and summarize what is currently known ented relative to the control fibroblasts. Detailed primer aboutdisordersassociatedwithgenescodingforELOVLs. information is available in Supplementary Table S4. All RT-qPCR experiments were conducted with
