R E S E A R C H A R T I C L E
KEYWORDS: cid, cid cid, cases, variants, case, variant, using, fig, germany, analysis, disorder, ichthyosis, movementdisorders, vol, movementdisorders vol


M O V E M E N T D I S O R D E R L I N K E D T O V A R I A N T S I N E L O V L 1 modifications.4 HeLa cells were transfected with either Statistical Analysis with 3xFLAG-ELOVL1-WT or 3xFLAG-ELOVL1 Data of metabolites (AbsoluteIDQ p-180 kit) were (p.W154*) construct using Effectene (Qiagen), exported from MetIDQ and metabolites above the lower according to manufacturer’s instructions. Cells were limit of quantification were subjected to statistical analy- suspended in buffer A (50mM Hepes-NaOH (pH7.5), sisusingMetaboAnalyst5.0.Datawerenormalizedusing 150mM NaCl, 10% glycerol, 1mM DTT, 2mM log transformation and auto-scaling. Statistical analysis MgCl2, 1mM CaCl2, 1x protease inhibitor mixture of the mRNA expression or sphingolipids concentration (Complete, EDTA-free, Roche Diagnostics, Germany), in fibroblasts was performed using the Prism 10 (Gra- and 1mM PMSF and lysed by sonication. After centri- phPad software). Statistical differences were considered fugation at 100,000(cid:4)g at 4(cid:1)C for 30minutes, the pel- to be significant when P<0.05. All quantitative data let (total membrane fraction) was resuspended in buffer werepresentedasmean((cid:5)standarddeviation[SD]). A and subjected to the fatty acid elongation assay. Total membrane fractions (10μg of protein) were incu- bated with 100μM [13C] malonyl-CoA (Sigma) and Results 10μM of C22:0-CoA (behenoyl-CoA) (Avanti Polar Clinical Review of ELOVL1 Cases Lipids, Alabaster, AL, United States) complexed with 0.2mg/mL fatty acid-free bovine serum albumin in Asummaryoftheclinicalfindings,includingthosefrom buffer A containing 1mM NADPH at 37(cid:1)C for thefourpreviouslydescribedcases,ispresentedinSupple- 30minutes. The reactions were terminated by the addi- mentary Table S1. Videos of cases 1 and 4 are shown in tion of 10 volume of methanol. Lipids were extracted the supplement (S1,S2,S3,S4). Case reports of cases 1 to 5 andanalyzedbyLC–MS/MSasdescribedbelow. are included in the Supplementary Case Reports. Seven cases from five unrelated families were included in the study,fourofwhomwerefemale.Theageatlastpresenta- Analysis of Fatty Acid Elongation tion ranged from 4 to 21years. All cases originated from by LC–MS/MS healthy consanguineous parents). Pregnancy and birth Ten volumes of methanol were added to the reaction were unremarkable in all. Congenital ichthyosis was pre- mixtures for protein precipitation. After addition of sent in five cases, affecting the limbs and the trunk 10pmol arachidonic acid-d8 as internal standard (Cay- (Fig.1A).Motordevelopmentwasprimarilydelayedinall man,AnnArbor,MI,UnitedStates),sampleswerestored cases, although all achieved unsupported sitting by overnight at (cid:3)80(cid:1)C and centrifuged at 30,000 g. The 16months of age. Three cases achieved unsupported supernatant was transferred into a glass centrifuge tube walking.Progressivespasticity,predominantlyinthelower and evaporated using a vacuum concentrator (Christ,
