R E S E A R C H A R T I C L E
KEYWORDS: cid, cid cid, cases, variants, case, variant, using, fig, germany, analysis, disorder, ichthyosis, movementdisorders, vol, movementdisorders vol


ER retention Catalytic site motif (D) (E) (F) (G) FIG.3.Legendonnextpage. MovementDisorders,Vol.40,No.9,2025 1843 W O N G E T A L All variants detected in ELOVL1 are predicted to be presence of a truncated ELOVL1 protein in ELOVL1- pathogenic by different conservation and functional W154X cells (Fig. 3D). Unexpectedly, despite the lack of impact scores and are located in highly conserved the ER retention signal, both the WT and mutant con- aminoacidresidues(SupplementaryFig.S2andSupple- structs exhibited perinuclear staining, co-localizing with Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) guidelines elongationassayconductedonELOVL1-W154Xdemon- the ELOVL1 variant c.462G>A would be classified as strated a substantial reduction in enzymatic activity com- pathogenic (PVS1_VS, PM2_P, PM3_P), the c.248C>T paredtoELOVL1-WT(Fig.3F). variant as a variant of uncertain significance (VUS) (PM1_P,PM2_P,PP3_0,PM3_M),thec.457T>Cvari- Expression of ELOVL1 and Other ELOVLs in ant as a VUS (PM1_P, PM2_P, PM3_P, PM3_P), the Fibroblasts from Case 1 c.491G>A variant as a VUS (PM1-P, PM2_P, PM3_P, PM3_0), and the c.52C>T variant also as a VUS Quantitative real-time PCR revealed a substantial (PM1_P, PM2_P, PM3_M, PP3_0).10 Exome sequenc- reduction in ELOVL1 mRNA in case 1, possibly ing included all other genes associated with because of nonsense-mediated decay (Fig. 3G). Analysis hypomyelinating leukodystrophy. No pathogenic vari- of mRNA levels for other known ELOVL enzymes antsweredetectedinthesegenes. showedasignificantdecrease inELOVL3and ELOVL4 expression, along with a notable increase in ELOVL2 and ELOVL6 mRNA expression, indicating widespread Expression of ELOVL1 p.Trp154X Variant in dysregulation of VLCFA metabolism because of the Case 1 Fibroblasts variant (Fig. 3G). ELOVL7 was undetectable in skin Asexpectedforanonsensevariant,Westernblotanaly- fibroblasts of both case 1 and controls, consistent with sis using a polyclonal antibody targeting the C-terminal previousreports.11,12 peptide sequence of ELOVL1 (amino acids 250–277, C-ELOVL1)detectednosignalinwholecellextractsfrom Sphingolipids Alteration in Plasma and case1fibroblasts(Fig.3A).Consistentwiththesefindings, Fibroblasts of Case 1 immunofluorescent micrographs demonstrated the expected colocalization of C-ELOVL1 with the endoplas- A comprehensive metabolomics analysis using the mic reticulum marker Calnexin in control fibroblasts. In AbsoluteIDQ p-180 kit and heatmap clustering rev- contrast, no such immunoreactivity was observed in the ealed significant perturbations in the metabolism of fibroblastsofcase1(Fig.3B). complex lipids, particularly sphingolipids and glyce- rophospholipids, within the patient’s plasma (Fig. 4A). Specifically, all sphingomyelins (SMs) exhibited a sub- Subcellular Localization and Enzymatic Activity stantialdecreaseintheplasmaofcase1(Fig.4B). of the p.Trp154X ELOVL1 Variant To analyze the effect on the acyl chain lengths of To investigate the subcellular localization and elonga- sphingolipids, we evaluated the levels of ceramides tion activity of the ELOVL1 variant detected in case (Cer), hexosylceramides (HexCer), and sphingomyelins 1, we generated two
