R E S E A R C H A R T I C L E
KEYWORDS: cid, cid cid, cases, variants, case, variant, using, fig, germany, analysis, disorder, ichthyosis, movementdisorders, vol, movementdisorders vol


ulation and affect highly conserved amino acid residues throughout vertebrates. In silico prediction programs sug- gest that these variants are likely pathogenic. According to the ACMG guidelines, only the variant identified in case 1—a homozygous stop-gain variant—meets the criteriatobeclassifiedaslikelypathogenic.Theremaining biallelicvariantsinELOVL1. they are highly suggestive of pathogenicity because of their segregation within affected families and the strong phenotypic specificity observed. These findings support the possibility that the missense variants are causative. MRI findings were consistent across all cases, reveal- However, further biochemical validation and identifica- ing pronounced non-progressive hypomyelinating leu- tion of additional patients with similar variants will be kodystrophy. Hypomyelinating leukodystrophies are a essentialtoconfirmtheirpathogenicrole. group of disorders resulting from primary defects in Despite a similar neurological phenotype in all myelin caused by genetic defects in structural proteins, 11 cases described to date with either homozygous transcription factors, lysosomal enzymes, and RNA the ichthyosis phenotype is highly variable (clinical fea- ELOV1 variants closely aligns with typical features of tures are summarized in Fig. 5). Cases 2 and 3 with hypomyelinating leukodystrophies, such as Pelizaeus- homozygous variants did not exhibit ichthyosis, Merzbacher disease (PMD), characterized by congenital whereas the others showed involvement of the trunk nystagmus, motor impairment, ataxia, and spasticity, and limbs. For those with ichthyosis, it was present at with comparatively milder cognitiveimpairment.13Sim- birth in the cases with homozygous ELOVL1 variants ilar to PMD, patients harboring homozygous ELOVL1 while it developed later during the first year of life in variants exhibit a slowly progressive clinical course thetwocaseswithheterozygousvariants. marked by worsening dysarthria and spasticity. How- All cases showed delayed motor development and ever, the movement disorder, including head tremor axial hypotonia, but all achieved unsupported sitting and myoclonus present in ELOVL1 patients would be and three were able to walk at least temporarily. Com- atypical for a hypomyelinating leukodystrophy like mon neurological findings that were present from early PMD. TUBB4A-related disorder is an exception as it childhood were nystagmus and dysarthria. In all cases, often manifests with severe dystonia. However, it is fre- slowly progressive spasticity was described leading to quently accompanied by basal ganglia and cerebellar contractures. A pronounced movement disorder with atrophy (hypomyelination with atrophy of the basal prominent head tremor, dystonia, and myoclonus was ganglia and the cerebellum [H-ABC]), which was not notablyonly presentin thenine caseswithhomozygous observed in the patients described here.14 Several variants. Despite severe neurological symptoms, intel- hypomyelinatingleukodystrophiespresentwithinvolve- lectual disability was only present infour cases, allwith
