R E S E A R C H A R T I C L E
KEYWORDS: cid, cid cid, cases, variants, case, variant, using, fig, germany, analysis, disorder, ichthyosis, movementdisorders, vol, movementdisorders vol


[H-ABC]), which was not notablyonly presentin thenine caseswithhomozygous observed in the patients described here.14 Several variants. Despite severe neurological symptoms, intel- hypomyelinatingleukodystrophiespresentwithinvolve- lectual disability was only present infour cases, allwith ment of organs outside the central nervous system homozygous variants, and described as mild and non- (CNS) that can be diagnostic. For example, abnormal progressive. dentition is seen in 4H leukodystrophy and 1846 MovementDisorders,Vol.40,No.9,2025 M O V E M E N T D I S O R D E R L I N K E D T O V A R I A N T S I N E L O V L 1 occulodentodigital dysplasia, whereas bone involve- unavailable from the other cases. The ELOVL1 gene ment is seen in hypomyelination with encodes a protein of 279 amino acids with seven spondylometaphyseal dysplasia.13 To the best of the transmembrane-spanning domains,includingahistidine authors’ knowledge, the co-occurrence of ichthyosis cluster motif (HXXHH) crucial for enzymatic activity, and hypomyelination has previously only been and an ER retention signal composed of a di-lysine described in ELOVL4-related disorders; however, these motif (KXKXX) located at the C-terminus.15 The cases did not exhibit movement disorders. The triad of c.462G>A (p.Trp154*) variant introduces a premature hypomyelinating leukodystrophy, ichthyosis, and a stop codon, which is predicted to disrupt ELOVL1 movement disorder appears to be unique to ELOVL1- function either by triggering nonsense-mediated mRNA related disorders. Within the cohort, we observed a decay (NMD) or by producing a truncated protein. range of phenotypic variability, even among individuals Our findings suggest that NMD is playing a role, at carrying the same genetic variant. The sample size was least to some extent, as evidenced by markedly reduced too small to establish a definitive genotype–phenotype transcript levels (Fig. 3G). However, it is possible that correlation. However, the two identified nonsense vari- both NMD and truncated protein production are con- ants did not appear to be associated with a more severe tributing to the observed phenotype. In the event that a genetic modifiers may contribute significantly, given the the histidine cluster motif but exhibit abnormal locali- complex nature of VLCFA metabolism. Additionally, zation. Interestingly, our biochemical analysis, using a environmental factors—particularly dietary VLCFA FLAG antibody in transfected cells, revealed that the intake—may also influence disease expression. Future ELOVL1-W154X variant localizes to the ER. The ER studies should address these aspects, as they may have localization of the W154X variant, despite lacking the importanttherapeuticimplications. canonical
