R E S E A R C H A R T I C L E
KEYWORDS: cid, cid cid, cases, variants, case, variant, using, fig, germany, analysis, disorder, ichthyosis, movementdisorders, vol, movementdisorders vol


transmembrane domains of the truncated one French family (Di Grgoiro). From these disorders proteinmediateERanchoring. autosomal recessive ELOVL4 variants seem to have Comprehensive analysis of lipid composition in the most overlap with ELOVL1 associated recessive disor- patient’s plasma and skin fibroblasts highlighted a sig- der described in this article. ELOVL4 catalyzes the pro- nificant reduction in very long-chain acyl constituents duction of VLCFAs of 28 carbon atoms and more. In withinsphingolipids, consistent withimpairedELOVL1 concordance with the symptoms seen in patients who function. Notably, despite its ER localization, the carry variants within the ELOVL4 gene, the highest ELOVL1-W154X variant consistently displayed a defi- expression of ELOVL4 is found in brain, retina, and ciencyinFAelongation,akintowhathasbeenreported skin.27,28 ELOVL1 on the other hand is contributing to for the S165F variant of ELOVL1 protein.6 Based on the generation of C26-VLCFAs, which are a substrate these findings, we propose that the truncated protein ofELOVL4.It,therefore,seems plausiblethatELOVL1 may have an altered secondary structure or a reduced deficiency might also cause functional ELOVL4 defi- capacity to interact with components of the elongation ciency because of the lack of C26-VLCFAs as a sub- machinery, thereby compromising VCLFA synthesis. strate for the elongation reaction thereby explaining the However, this remains speculative, as no direct struc- overlapofsymptoms. tural or interaction data were obtained. Further studies incorporating structural modeling, circular dichroism Conclusion spectroscopy, or co-immunoprecipitation will be essen- tial to test this hypothesis and clarify the underlying Recessive ELOVL1 cause a recognizable disorder mechanism. characterized by ichthyosis, developmental delay, and a The ELOVL enzyme family can be categorized into movement disorder with progressive spasticity, head two primary groups. ELOVL1, ELOVL3, ELOVL6, tremor, myoclonus, and dystonia. Brain MRI demon- and ELOVL7, primarily elongate saturated and mono- strated that the disorder is part of the group of unsaturated VLCFAs, and ELOVL2 and ELOVL5 are hypomyelinatingleukodystrophies. primarily involved in the elongation of polyunsaturated fatty acids. ELOVL4 is an exception as it has been AuthorRoles:(1)ResearchProject:A.Conception,B.Organization,C. found to be active in both groups.20 Analyzing the Execution;(2)StatisticalAnalysis:A.Design,B.Execution,C.Reviewand expression of other ELOVL enzymes, Mueller et al6 Critique; (3) Manuscript Preparation: A. Writing of the First Draft, B. ReviewandCritique. found an upregulation of only ELOVL2 mRNA in K.M.W.:1A,1B,1C,2A,2B,2C,3A,3B. S165Fskinfibroblasts. Inskinfibroblastsofcase1who R.M.:1A,1B,1C,2C,3A,3B. K.M.:1B,1C,3B. carries the homozygous recessive W154X ELOVL1 S.D.:1B,1C,2A,2B,3A,3B. variant, we also observed an upregulation of ELOVL2 T.T.:1B,1C,3B. J.R.:1B,1C,3B. but also ELOVL6 mRNA, along with significant B.T.:1B,1C,3B. downregulation of ELOVL3 and ELOVL4 mRNA. S.E.:1C,2A,2B,3B. A.M.:1B,1C,3B. These results indicate that the expression of ELOVL
