Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2014 June 14; 20(22): 7075-7078
KEYWORDS: foreign, body, foreign body, bladder, fish, perforation, migration, bone, urinary bladder, urinary, fish bone, case, operation, pmid, patient


developed a me- chanical ileus. Surgery had to be delayed due to her bowel perforation, and these FBs may occasionally lead hyperthyroidism. Migration of the foreign body to the to penetration injuries, resulting in complications, such urinary bladder was shown on additional CT. A Yellow- as the formation of an abscess. In most reported cases, ish fish bone 3.5 cm in size was removed through intra- foreign bodies that have perforated the gastrointestinal operative cystoscopy. The patient was discharged 8 d tract were confined to the extraluminal space without after the operation without any unexpected event. penetrating an adjacent organ. However, in this case, the ingested FB, a fish bone, caused the formation of an ab- © 2014 Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved. scess formation after its perforation of the rectosigmoid WJG|www.wjgnet.com 7075 June 14, 2014|Volume 20|Issue 22| Cho MK et al. Fish bone migration to the urinary bladder A B C Figure 1 Initial computed tomography image. A, B: Computed tomography revealed a 3 cm, thin, curvilinear object with a high density within a 5 cm sized fluid col- lection adjacent to the urinary bladder, which can be regarded as a foreign body and abscess formation (arrow); C: Wall of the rectosigmoid colon (arrow) is thickened, suggesting that the rectosigmoid colon was perforated. colon and lead to the penetration of the urinary bladder, and the subject was discharged. After 1 mo, the patient resulting in its migration into the urinary bladder. returned to the hospital and presented with vomiting and the absence of gas passage. In the follow-up CT, a mechanical ileus was observed due to a transitional point, CASE REPORT with the presence of a 2 cm pelvic abscess in the right A 42-year-old female was admitted for lower abdominal lower abdomen, which had decreased compared to the pain and fever that lasted for 1 wk. The physical exami- previous study (Figure 2A). The follow-up thyroid func- nation revealed mild abdominal tenderness without re- tion test showed T3 levels of > 800 ng/dL, free T4 lev- bound tenderness in the supra-pubic area. The patient’s els of 7.89 ng/dL, and TSH < 0.01 mIU/L, which may vital signs were recorded: body temperature was 37.4 ℃, suggest poor medication compliance. The surgery had heart frequency was 108 beats/min and blood pressure to be delayed to properly manage the patient’s hyperthy- was 100/63 mmHg. No mass or hernia was
