Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2014 June 14; 20(22): 7075-7078
KEYWORDS: foreign, body, foreign body, bladder, fish, perforation, migration, bone, urinary bladder, urinary, fish bone, case, operation, pmid, patient


medication compliance. The surgery had heart frequency was 108 beats/min and blood pressure to be delayed to properly manage the patient’s hyperthy- was 100/63 mmHg. No mass or hernia was identified. roidism. An additional CT was performed 7 d before the Laboratory tests showed an elevated white blood cell operation, and it revealed the migration of the foreign count (15870 cells/L) and increased C-reactive protein body into the urinary bladder (Figure 2B). An adhesion level (3.74 mg/dL). The patient had no history of ab- of sigmoid colon was found near the urinary bladder in dominal surgery, suffered from uncontrolled hyperthy- the pelvic area, and a small abscess was observed adja- roidism, which was not treated with medication. The cent to the bladder wall during laparoscopic exploration. thyroid function test showed elevated T3 levels of 281 However, there was no bowel perforation or fistula. Us- ng/dL (60-181), elevated free T4 levels of 4.47 ng/dL ing intra-operative cystoscopy, a yellowish foreign body (0.7-1.4) and a low thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) was observed between the dome and lateral wall of the level, which was shown to be less than 0.01 mIU/L urinary bladder, and this foreign body was removed us- (0.4-4.0). These laboratory results demonstrated an ac- ing forceps (Figure 3). The surgical specimen consisted tive hyperthyroidism state, which required medication. of a thin, curvilinear fish bone, 3.5 cm in length. There Computed tomography (CT) demonstrated a pelvic were no other specific intra-operative events. The patient abscess, 5 cm in size, in the lower abdomen, and this ab- was discharged 8 d after the operation, without any unex- scess contained a thin and curvilinear hyperdense foreign pected event. body (Figure 1). However, the patient had no memory of swallowing any foreign body, such as a fish bone. Af- DISCUSSION ter conservative management including antibiotics, the symptoms and laboratory data were returned to normal, Most ingested foreign bodies uneventfully pass through WJG|www.wjgnet.com 7076 June 14, 2014|Volume 20|Issue 22| Cho MK et al. Fish bone migration to the urinary bladder A B Figure 3 Cystoscopic view. A yellowish, linear structure was seen between the dome and the lateral wall of the urinary bladder. tion caused by the fish bone, which usually presents as a curvilinear foreign body. Moreover, CT scans allow the differential diagnosis of other causes of abdominal pain, and the scans also show the surrounding anatomical connections. The possibility of the migration of
