Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2014 June 14; 20(22): 7075-7078
KEYWORDS: foreign, body, foreign body, bladder, fish, perforation, migration, bone, urinary bladder, urinary, fish bone, case, operation, pmid, patient


foreign body. Moreover, CT scans allow the differential diagnosis of other causes of abdominal pain, and the scans also show the surrounding anatomical connections. The possibility of the migration of a sharp foreign body, such as a fish bone, into adjacent organs should always be considered. If the operation should be delayed, additional CT should be performed prior to the operation. Figure 2 Follow up computed tomography image after the patient de- The standard management for foreign body-induced veloped mechanical ileus. A: One month before the operation. Follow up bowel perforation is emergency surgery. However, there computed tomography (CT) demonstrated a transitional zone at the distal ileum are reported cases in which the foreign body-induced near the pelvic abscess, with small bowel dilatation; B: Seven day before the bowel perforation as successfully treated using only operation. Follow-up CT showed a linear, radiopaque lesion that was partially penetrated into the dome of the bladder. conservative management. A non-operative manage- ment could be employed if there is a lack of peritoneal irritation, as assessed during physical examination, or if the gastrointestinal tract within 1 wk. However, the the patient has a relative contraindication for surgery. In perforation rate can be as high as 15%-35% when sharp that case, close observation is required in order to detect foreign objects are ingested. Fish bones are the most possible delayed complications, such as mechanical ileus commonly observed objects that lead to bowel perfora- caused by inflammation or the penetration of an adjacent tions. The most common intestinal perforation site is organ, as was the case in this study. It may be difficult to the terminal ileum, followed by the rectosigmoid colon, remove the foreign body due to inflammation during the due to its narrow and angulating anatomical nature. acute period. If the operation is delayed for too long, the Intestinal perforation by a foreign body may result in the extent of bowel resection and the rate of complication development of an abscess, enteric fistula, or intestinal may increase as the time until the operation increases. obstruction, as well as peritonitis with or without pneu- However, delaying the emergency operation may, para- moperitoneum. In most cases, the reports of foreign doxically, downscale the range of operation in some bodies are confined to the extraluminal space, without cases. There are reported cases in which the foreign body any penetration of an adjacent organ. However, there are was
