NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: artemisinin, malaria, pubmed, pubmed pmid, pmid, liver, injury, alt, amodiaquine, liver injury, artesunate, treatment, patients, falciparum, uncomplicated


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Artemisinin. [Updated 2017 Feb 8]. Bookshelf URL: Artemisinin Updated: February 8, 2017. OVERVIEW Introduction Artemisinin is an ancient Chinese herbal therapy for malarial fevers which has been recently found to have potent activity against many forms of malarial organisms, including chloroquine-resistant Plasmodium falciparum. Several artemisinin derivatives have been developed for clinical use in prevention and treatment of malaria, some of which have been linked to rare instances of acute liver injury. Background The artemisinins (ar tem' is in in), including artesumate, arteeter, artemether, artemisinin, and dihydroartemisinin, are derivatives of the Chinese herb known as "qing hao" or sweet wormwood plant (Artemisia annua). The artemisinins have antimalarial activity in vitro and in vivo and are believed to act by release of free radicals into the parasite vacuoles. Artemisinin derivatives are currently the most active antimalarial drugs available and have been introduced around the world as an integral part of therapy of active malaria, always in combination with other antimalarials to prevent resistance such as amodiaquine, lumefantrine and mefloquine. Several oral and parenteral formulations of artemisinin derivatives are available worldwide. In the United States, the combination of artemether (20 mg) and lumefantrine (120 mg) was approved for therapy of P. falciparum malaria in 2009 under the brand name Coartem. The recommended dose for adults is 4 tablets twice daily for 3 days (6 doses). Artesunate (Adamsunate) is also available on a named-patient basis from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Malaria Hotline (770-488-7788, M-F, 8 am to 4:30 pm, Eastern time). General recommendations on use of artemisinin and other antimalarial agents are available at the CDC website: Common side effects of artesunate include nausea, vomiting, anorexia, and dizziness. Potentially severe adverse events include prolongation of the QTc interval and cardiac arrhythmias. Hepatotoxicity Artemisinin derivatives have been associated with a low rate of serum aminotransferase elevations (1% to 4%) that are generally asymptomatic, mild-to-moderate and self-limited, often resolving even with continuing therapy. In most studies, the rate of serum ALT elevations during artemisinin therapy was similar to that of patients on comparator agents. Importantly, there have been increasing numbers of reports of idiosyncratic acute liver injury in patients taking artemisinin derivatives. Complicating the interpretation of these reports, however, is that most severe cases of liver injury occurred in patients who were also receiving other antimalarial
