NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: artemisinin, malaria, pubmed, pubmed pmid, pmid, liver, injury, alt, amodiaquine, liver injury, artesunate, treatment, patients, falciparum, uncomplicated


injury in patients taking artemisinin derivatives. Complicating the interpretation of these reports, however, is that most severe cases of liver injury occurred in patients who were also receiving other antimalarial agents, some of which are known to be hepatotoxic (amodiaquine, sulfamethoxazole, sulfadiazine/ pyrimethamine). The onset of injury was usually within a few days to weeks of starting artemisinin, and the 2 LiverTox pattern of serum enzyme elevations was typically hepatocellular. Features of hypersensitivity such as rash, fever and eosinophilia were uncommon and autoantibodies have not been described. Symptoms can resemble those of acute viral hepatitis and the hepatitis can be severe, and several fatal instances or cases requiring emergency liver transplantation have been reported. Nevertheless, clinically apparent liver injury due to artemisinin derivatives is very rare and was not reported in several large clinical trials of malaria treatment. Most published reports of hepatotoxicity of artemisinin were linked to use of herbal supplements containing artemisinin and with extended treatment. Liklihood score: D (possible rare cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Injury The mechanism by which artemisinin derivatives cause liver injury is unknown. Clinical factors and testing for serum antibodies suggest an idiosyncratic immunological reaction to a hepatic metabolite may be responsible. Artemisinin derivatives are extensively metabolized by the liver (primarily via CYP 3A4) and are prone drug- drug interactions if given with strong CYP 3A4 inducers such as rifampin, phenytoin or St. John's wort or inhibitors such as intraconazole or ritonavir. Outcome and Management There does not seem to be cross reactivity to hepatic injury of the artemisinin derivatives with other antimalarial agents, but it is likely that sensitivity will be shared among the various artemisinin. Drug Class: Antimalarial Agents CASE REPORT Case 1. Acute liver injury due to artemisinin exposure. [Modified from: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Hepatitis temporally associated with an herbal supplement containing artemisinin – Washington, 2008. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2009; 58: 854-6. PubMed Citation] A 52 year old man with irritable bowel syndrome was treated with an herbal powder that contained artemisinin and developed fatigue and dark urine 10 days later. He had no history of liver disease, alcohol abuse, recent travel or risk factors for viral hepatitis. His only other medication was an occasional acetaminophen tablet. Analysis of the powder indicated that he had been taking the equivalent of 600 mg of artemisinin daily. Physical examination revealed jaundice and mild
