NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: artemisinin, malaria, pubmed, pubmed pmid, pmid, liver, injury, alt, amodiaquine, liver injury, artesunate, treatment, patients, falciparum, uncomplicated


medication was an occasional acetaminophen tablet. Analysis of the powder indicated that he had been taking the equivalent of 600 mg of artemisinin daily. Physical examination revealed jaundice and mild abdominal tenderness without fever or rash. Laboratory testing suggested a mild hepatitis (Table). His serum enzymes had been normal on routine testing five months earlier. Tests for hepatitis A, B and C were negative. Acetaminophen was not detected. He was monitored on no therapy and improved rapidly. Symptoms had resolved and all tests were negative two weeks later. Key Points Medication: Herbal powder containing artemisinin Pattern: Hepatocellular (R=9.6) Severity: 3+ (jaundice, hospitalization) Latency: 2 weeks Recovery: 2 weeks Other medications: Occasional acetaminophen Artemisinin 3 Laboratory Values Time After Starting Time After Stopping ALT Alk P Bilirubin (mg/dL) Other (U/L) (U/L) 2 weeks 3 days 898 258 3.1 4 weeks 18 days Normal Normal Normal Normal Values <55 <150 <1.2 Comment Cases of artemisinin hepatotoxicity have been characterized by rapid onset within a few days to 3 weeks of starting therapy and a hepatocellular pattern of serum enzyme elevations, but without signs of hypersensitivity such as rash, fever or eosinophilia. The cause of the injury is unknown, but it has many features of hypersensitivity such as short latency and occurrence upon reexposure. Fatal instances have been reported. Th e current case was distinctive in that the patient was taking artemesinin not for malaria, but as a part of an herbal medication for gastrointestinal complaints. Artemisinin was taken in very high doses and for a longer period than is typical for acute malaria (active therapy of which is typically for 3 days). PRODUCT INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE TRADE NAMES Artemisinin Derivatives (artemether, lumefantrine) – Coartem® DRUG CLASS Antimalarial Agents COMPLETE LABELING Product labeling at DailyMed, National Library of Medicine, NIH CHEMICAL FORMULA AND STRUCTURE DRUG CAS REGISTRY NUMBER MOLECULAR FORMULA STRUCTURE Artemisinin 63968-64-9 C15-H22-O5 4 LiverTox ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY References updated: 08 February 2017 Zimmerman HJ. Antiprotozoal agents. In, Zimmerman HJ. Hepatotoxicity: the adverse effects of drugs and other chemicals on the liver. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1999, pp. 623-5. (Expert review of hepatotoxicity published in 1999; before the availability of artemisinin derivatives). Vinetz JM, Clain J, Bounkeua V, Eastman RT, Fidock D. Chemotherapy of malaria.l In, Brunton LL, Chabner McGraw-Hill, 2011, pp. 1383-418. (Textbook of pharmacology and therapeutics). trials. Med Trop (Mars) 1998; 58 (Suppl 3): 50-3. PubMed PMID: 10212898. (Systematic review of 108
