Hao et al. BMC Surgery (2022) 22:212
KEYWORDS: tube, drainage, drainage tube, incision, removal, broken, lumbar, spinal, endoscopy, spinal endoscopy, fig, broken drainage, postoperative, case, wound


Hao et al. BMC Surgery (2022) 22:212 CASE REPORT Open Access Endoscopy-aided retrieval of broken drainage tube after lumbar spine surgery Shenshen Hao, Shengli Dong* , Hongke Li, Shuai Liu, Honglei Chen and Zhifang Zhang Abstract Background: A ruptured drainage tube which remains in the incision is a rare surgical complication. The usual mode of retrieval is to detach the suture and explore the pre-existing incisional wound. However, spinal endoscopy provides an alternative method for successful removal, avoiding the enlargement of the surgical wound. Case report: A 53-year-old male patient underwent open lumbar spine surgery for lumbar spondylolisthe- sis between the 5th lumbar and 1st sacral vertebral bodies. Prior to closure, two negative pressure ball drainage tubes were inserted, one of which broke during removal,beneath the fascia. Use of spinal endoscopy enabled the complete removal of the broken drainage tube. Both the original incisional and endoscopic wounds healed well without any sign of infection. Conclusions: The use of spinal endoscopy to remove the broken drainage tube is an alternative to open the surgical wound and should be took into account. Keywords: Lumbar spine surgery, Broken drainage tube, Removal, Spinal endoscopy Background Case presentation Unsuccessful post-operative drainage tube removal is A ruptured drainage tube was removed from a patient a rare complication. A ruptured drainage tube which after lumbar spine surgery using spinal endoscopy. remains in the incision is a potential cause of iatrogenic A 53-year-old male patient underwent open lum- infection . The usual mode of removal involves detach- bar spine surgery to correct spondylolisthesis between ment of the suture and exploration through the incisional the 5th lumbar and 1st sacral vertebral bodies. The Mey- wound which is liable to cause secondary injury to the erding classification was degree I (Fig. 1). The operation patient and delay incision healing time. Thus, removal is went smoothly. Prior to closure, two negative pressure very difficult without making the wound worse. ball drainage tubes were inserted with outlets on either Spinal endoscopy is a minimally invasive technique side of the incision (Fig. 2) and intradermal suture was widely used in the treatment of lumbar disc herniation. It used to minimize scar formation. No post-operative requires only a small incision to allow visualization of the infection was present in the incision. Post-operative internal area of interest. Spinal endoscopy may be a suita- X-ray reexamination was performed (Fig. 3). ble approach to facilitating broken drainage
