Hao et al. BMC Surgery (2022) 22:212
KEYWORDS: tube, drainage, drainage tube, incision, removal, broken, lumbar, spinal, endoscopy, spinal endoscopy, fig, broken drainage, postoperative, case, wound


image. Lumbar spine flexion can well. X-ray imaging showed a satisfactory location of the be seen to be much reduced prior to the operation with decreased internal fixation device and fusion of the 5th lumbar and gap between the 5th lumbar and the 1st sacral vertebral bodies the 1st sacral vertebral bodies (Fig. 6). Discussion and conclusion Negative pressure ball drainage is often used in spine orthopedics. It is rare for the drainage tube to become entangled or accidentally sutured with tissue during clo- sure. When this does occur, it is likely that the tube will be sutured through a single wall layer, in which case it does not normally break during removal , or through double wall layers so breakage is likely took place (Fig. 7). Removal of the broken tube would usually be via detach- ment of the suture and exploration through the origi- Fig. 2 Drainage tube. Silicone drainage tube device used during nal incision but use of the Kirschner wire tool [2–5] or lumbar surgery spinal endoscopy are also possibilities. For tubes left in the patient’s incision, exploration through the surgi- cal incision would be favored but for longer tube pieces located under the fascia layer, the sutures would have to be detached. The current case involved an intrader- mal suture, re-opening of which would cause second- ary injury to the patient and would not be conducive to wound healing. Spinal endoscopy is a minimally invasive technique used to treat lumbar disc herniation. It allows visuali- zation of the area of interest and requires only a small incision. The suture may remain intact and there is little impact on the healing of the incision . However, the breaking of the tube into small pieces for removal meant Fig. 3 Postoperative radiography. A Post-operative anteroposterior that endoscopic visualization was required to ensure that X-ray image. B Postoperative lateral x-ray image taken on the 3rd all pieces were removed. The pieces were reassembled postoperative day. The fusion cage and internal fixation device and measured after the procedure to ensure that the tube between the 5th lumbar and 1st sacral vertebral bodies can be seen had been completely removed . Spinal endoscopy technology proved to be a success- ful approach to removing the broken tube in the cur- The patient was reluctant to agree to removal of the rent case. However, prevention is the best way to avoid piece
