Hao et al. BMC Surgery (2022) 22:212
KEYWORDS: tube, drainage, drainage tube, incision, removal, broken, lumbar, spinal, endoscopy, spinal endoscopy, fig, broken drainage, postoperative, case, wound


approach to removing the broken tube in the cur- The patient was reluctant to agree to removal of the rent case. However, prevention is the best way to avoid piece of tube if re-opening of the wound was involved such situations and proper care should be taken over the and preferred a minimally invasive approach. placement and removal of drainage tubes in the operat- Therefore, spinal endoscopy was performed under local ing theatre. Visualization of the drainage tube should anesthesia. The procedure required an incision of less be maintained during stitching of the incision and the than 2 cm in length, below the original incision and did length of the tube buried in the incision should be slightly Fig. 4 Postoperative computed tomography (CT) scans. A Postoperative CT scan. B Postoperative CT sagittal scan taken on the 3rd postoperative day. The 2 cm long broken drainage tube can be seen behind the spinous process Fig. 5 The process of spinal endoscopy for removal of the broken drainage tube. A Intraoperative fluoroscopic anteroposterior image during endoscope insertion. B Intraoperative fluoroscopic lateral image during endoscope insertion. C The broken drainage tube can be visualized via the endoscopic image during the operation. D Endoscopy was used to confirm that there was no remnant left and the recovered broken drainage tube was restored to verify its complete removal. E The spinal endoscopy incision was sutured with 2 stitches and can be seen at the end of the pre-existing incisional wound. F The spinal endoscope used in the operation, the brand is Joimax shorter than the length of the incision. These precautions sutured to tissue. Care should be taken to avoid bending prevent the bending of the drainage tube and reduce of the tube during this procedure. Furthermore, removal the probability of its being accidentally sutured to tissue should involve pulling out slowly and gently along the during wound closure. In addition, any extra side holes direction of the tube. In case of difficulty, the tube could should not exceed 1/3 of the tube’s circumference, should be rotated clockwise or counterclockwise to facilitate its not be on the same side nor too close together to avoid smooth extraction. weakening the silicone constituent material . During The current case highlights the danger of accidental wound closure, the drainage tube may be agitated gen- suturing of a drainage tube. However, the use of spinal tly back and
