Shen et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2024) 24:801 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patient, perforation, covid-, air, treatment, colon, gastrointestinal, fig, air leakage, leakage, intestinal, abdominal, pneumomediastinum, case, disease


effu- ment of the cause. This case was reported to warn clini- sion (Fig. 1-A). The drug treatment administered was cians, so that similar cases could be found, diagnosed, comprehensive, encompassing oxygen inhalation, moxi- and treated early in the future. floxacin hydrochloride, ambroxol hydrochloride, and additional supportive management measures. Notably, Case presentation the patient did not report feelings of chest tightness after A 74-year-old female patient with a history of rheumatic the oxygen flow rate was escalated to 4 L/min. At this polymyalgia and aortic valve surgery had been receiv- point, the P/F ratio was recorded as 110 mmHg. Given ing glucocorticoid, immunomodulator, and warfarin the critical nature of the patient’s condition, Methylpred- therapy for an extended period. The patient presented to nisolone was introduced, initially at a dosage of 80 mg/ after exercise for 2 weeks, but without any obvious symp- down to 20 mg/day. Additionally, Tocilizumab was toms such as cough, expectoration, fever, abdominal administered in a single dose of 400 mg. Importantly, the pain, or diarrhea. A severe acute respiratory syndrome patient did not require the use of inotropes during this Fig. 1 CT scans of thorax and abdomen. A: Diffuse and patchy high-density image in both lungs, with slight pleural effusion at the beginning of admis- sion (white arrow). B: Pneumomediastinum in the second week (white arrow). C: Pneumomediastinum had been absorbed in the third week (white arrow). D: Pneumoretroperitoneum in the second week (white arrow). E: Multiple free gases in the abdominal and pelvic cavity, but no ascites were detected. Free air around the sigmoid colon(white arrow). F-1: Exudate, effusion, and free gas near the descending colon and sigmoid colon (arrow 1). F-2: Congenital left kidney displacement (arrow 2) period. In the first week of hospitalization, the dosage (Fig. 1-F). Once again, a multi-disciplinary discussion of methylprednisolone was reduced from 80 mg/day to was organized to evaluate the condition of the disease, 40 mg/day with the improvement of symptoms and the followed by sufficient communication with her family absorption of lung inflammation. In the second week, members. Then, a surgical treatment was performed after the patient complained of fatigue and accepted CT reex- obtaining consent from the patient. During the opera- amination. Surprisingly, pneumomediastinum (Fig. 1-B) tion, sigmoid colon perforation concurrent with sur- and pneumoretroperitoneum were observed (Fig. 1-D). rounding tissue infection was confirmed. A large amount Further refined abdominal enhanced CT found multiple of
