Shen et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2024) 24:801 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patient, perforation, covid-, air, treatment, colon, gastrointestinal, fig, air leakage, leakage, intestinal, abdominal, pneumomediastinum, case, disease


1-B) tion, sigmoid colon perforation concurrent with sur- and pneumoretroperitoneum were observed (Fig. 1-D). rounding tissue infection was confirmed. A large amount Further refined abdominal enhanced CT found multiple of pus was found in abdominal cavity, pelvic cavity, and free gases in the abdominal and pelvic cavity, including retroperitoneal cavity. The middle and lower segments around the sigmoid colon, but no ascites were detected of the descending colon turned black with pus attached. (Fig. 1-E).The possibility of digestive tract perforation The surgeons conducted multiple surgeries, including a was considered at first, but the patient did not exhibit partial colectomy, intestinal adhesiolysis, the creation of any digestive tract symptoms or abdominal signs. As a a colostomy, and flushing of the abdominal cavity. The precautionary measure, thoracic and gastrointestinal surgical pathology report indicated the presence of puru- surgeons were invited to make joint diagnosis and treat- lent inflammation on the serosal surface of the descend- ment. Finally, air leakage was considered to have possibly ing colon wall. However, the patient could not be taken originated from patient self-inflicted lung injury (P-SILI), off the ventilator after the operation, and finally, the fam- so conservative treatment was adopted. Our treatment ily decided to discontinue treatment. The timeline of all plans were to give cefoperazone sodium and sulbactam events is shown in Fig. 2. sodium for anti-infection (later changed to imipenem Discussion and conclusions and cilastatin sodium), esomeprazole magnesium for preventing upper gastrointestinal bleeding, enoxaparin COVID-19 is a global epidemic disease, and the infected sodium for anticoagulation, methylprednisolone sodium people have different manifestations . As a rare com- for anti-inflammation, nutritional support with com- plication, air leakage is common after positive pressure pound amino acid, and potassium chloride and sodium ventilation, but it can also occur spontaneously . The chloride for maintaining the electrolyte balance on the patient in the present case did not accept any iatrogenic basis of fasting. The patient’s condition improved in the intervention that could lead to air leakage before pneu- third week. In the fourth week, the patient suddenly momediastinum and pneumoretroperitoneum were suffered from left lower abdominal pain, and CT reex- discovered. The direction of air leakage was initially con- amination showed that pneumomediastinum had been sidered as lung → mediastinum → retroperitoneum on absorbed (Fig. 1-C), but exudate, effusion, and free gas a theoretical basis of the Macklin effect and P-SILI were found near the descending colon and
