Shen et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2024) 24:801 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patient, perforation, covid-, air, treatment, colon, gastrointestinal, fig, air leakage, leakage, intestinal, abdominal, pneumomediastinum, case, disease


→ mediastinum → retroperitoneum on absorbed (Fig. 1-C), but exudate, effusion, and free gas a theoretical basis of the Macklin effect and P-SILI were found near the descending colon and sigmoid colon . The Macklin effect refers to the linear air collection Fig. 2 Timeline of the clinical manifestations exhibited by the patient near the bronchovascular sheath. Some scholars believe system can further influence the respiratory tract [17, that the Macklin effect has high accuracy in predict- 18]. The hypercoagulable state is also a reason worth ing pneumomediastinum and pneumothorax in patients mentioning. It is considered as one of the four vicious with COVID-19 , especially when the lungs are heav- feedback cycles (the viral loop, the hyperinflammatory ily involved, which may be an important potential fac- loop, the non-canonical renin-angiotensin system axis tor for air leakage . Meanwhile, COVID-19 leads to loop, and the hypercoagulation loop) in the pathogenesis P-SILI, which is a phenomenon that refers to high respi- of COVID-19 . Some scholars have reported intes- ratory motility, followed by increased lung stress and tinal perforation associated with COVID-19 and found strain, uneven distribution of ventilation, and mismatch that histopathological examination of excised specimens of ventilation and blood flow. Non-intubated patients revealed inflammatory cells accompanied by edema and with spontaneous respiration may have a predilection for vascular thrombosis . In this study, a large num- P-SILI . The cytokine storm triggered by P-SILI and ber of inflammatory cells and severe congestion of the COVID-19 leads to diffuse alveolar injury, so the alveoli mucosa were also observed on the serosal surface of the rupture more easily .The lung image of the patient descending colon. The virus may induce mass endothe- was reviewed again and no typical Macklin effect was lial ischemia, extensive blood coagulation disorders, and found. Therefore, we were more inclined to P-SILI as the complement-induced thrombosis, coupled with factors cause of air leakage in the early stage of the disease. And such as old age, bed rest, and basic diseases concurrent porous diaphragm syndrome can explain the passage of with autoimmune diseases, which may lead to systemic air from the thorax to the abdomen.This was also the rea- microangiopathy and thromboembolism . Finally, the son for the pneumoperitoneum. Surgery was unneces- occurrence of intestinal perforation is jointly promoted sary in this situation . The possibility of hollow organ by non-negligible drug factors. Monoclonal antibod- perforation could not
