Shen et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2024) 24:801 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patient, perforation, covid-, air, treatment, colon, gastrointestinal, fig, air leakage, leakage, intestinal, abdominal, pneumomediastinum, case, disease


pneumoperitoneum. Surgery was unneces- occurrence of intestinal perforation is jointly promoted sary in this situation . The possibility of hollow organ by non-negligible drug factors. Monoclonal antibod- perforation could not be completely ruled out. Pneumo- ies and steroid hormones are often used to alleviate the peritoneum after perforation often occurs near the per- inflammatory storm of patients and reduce the risk of foration site . And the patient’s abdominal CT also destructive multi-organ dysfunction . However, such did indicate free air around the sigmoid colon.However, drugs conceal the symptoms of infection while exert- the patient did not show any active signs of peritonitis or ing anti-inflammatory action. Many studies have shown intestinal perforation, and conservative treatment could that tocilizumab can increase the risk of gastrointestinal be an acceptable treatment strategy.The willingness of perforation, which can be especially higher when steroid the patient and her families was also crucial. They har- hormones are used simultaneously . Most of the per- bored significant concerns regarding surgical treatment. foration associated tocilizumab occurred in the lower Conservative management was implemented on the digestive tract . The specific mechanism remains not basis of the above pathological mechanism and success- completely clear, but diverticulitis has been considered ful cases of non-surgical treatment. The later evolution a risk factor . The British Society for Rheumatology of the disease serves as a reminder that the air leakage in recommends that patients who take steroids with a his- this patient may have originated from intestinal perfora- tory of diverticulum should be cautious in using tocili- tion.The manifestations of intestinal perforation in this zumab. Coincidentally, these factors were manifested in patient are significantly different from those reported our patient. The risk of gastrointestinal perforation was by other scholars. This patient had no typical symptoms significantly aggravated by COVID-19 and the combined of pneumoperitoneum or peritoneal irritation. Air leak- use of drugs. Another notable detail that this patient age was accidentally found in routine chest imaging, and had congenital left kidney displacement (Fig. 1-F-2). mediastinal emphysema and retroperitoneal emphysema The ectopic kidney led to local discontinuity of the ret- occurred simultaneously. The occurrence of which may roperitoneum, and the gas after perforation entered the be related to the following mechanisms. The virus can retroperitoneal space through the defect of the retro- bind to the angiotensin converting enzyme 2 receptor in peritoneum, which also makes the symptoms and signs the gastrointestinal epithelium
