Chapter
KEYWORDS: cid, alcohol, cid cid, drinking, high-risk, percent, disease, effects, rehm, tnecrep, consumption, esaercni, use, cid esaercni, esaercni tnecrep


Alcohol Jürgen Rehm, Dan Chisholm, Robin Room, and Alan Lopez This chapter provides an overview of epidemiology of alco- others 2004). As figure 47.1 shows, alcohol consumption is hol use and health consequences as well as introducing cost- linked to acute and long-term health and social consequences effectivenessinterventionstoreducealcohol-relatedharm. through three intermediate mechanisms—toxic and beneficial biochemical effects,intoxication,and dependence (Babor and others 2003; Rehm, Room, Graham, and others 2003)—as EPIDEMIOLOGY OF ALCOHOL USE AND follows: ALCOHOL-RELATED DISEASE CONDITIONS • Toxic and beneficial biochemical effects. These effects of Alcoholic beverages and the problems they engender have alcohol consumption may influence chronic disease in been familiar fixtures in human societies since the beginning either beneficial or harmful ways.Accepted beneficial effects of recorded history. Because alcohol is causally related to include the influence of moderate drinking on coronary more than 60 International Classification of Diseases codes heart disease through reduction ofplaque deposits in arter- (Rehm, Room, Graham, and others 2003), disease outcomes ies,protection against blood clot formation,and promotion are among the most important alcohol-related problems. of blood clot dissolution . Examples of Depending on the pattern of consumption, alcohol is also harmful effects include increased risk for high blood pres- protective against diseases, most important among them, sure and for liver damage (Rehm, Room, Graham, and coronary heart disease (Rehm, Sempos, and Trevisan 2003). others 2003) and direct toxic effects on acinar cells trigger- However,theneteffectisnegative,and4percentoftheglobal ing pancreatic damage (Apte,Wilson,and Korsten 1997) or burdenof diseaseisattributabletoalcohol,oraboutasmuch hormonal disturbances (Emanuele and Emanuele 1997). death and disability globally as is attributable to tobacco and These are just examples,because alcohol exposure is associ- hypertension (Ezzati and others 2002; WHO 2002). Alcohol ated with a multitude oftoxic effects on different organs. are available at both the individual and the population levels, injuries or deaths,although intoxication can also be impli- drinking-and-driving countermeasures among the most forms ofheart disease.The subjective feeling ofintoxication effectivepolicyoptions(Baborandothers2003).Thischapter is mainly caused by the effects of alcohol on the central reviews the cost-effectiveness of different interventions in nervous system,and these effects are felt and can be meas- developingregionsoftheworld. ured even at light to moderate consumption levels (Eckardt and others 1998). Dimensions of Alcohol Related to Disease • Dependence.Alcohol dependence is a clinical disorder in its social outcomes is complex and multidimensional (Rehm and alcohol consumption and mediating its impact on both in terms of high-risk drinking occasions and also in terms of Patterns of Average drinking in public settings
