Chapter
KEYWORDS: cid, alcohol, cid cid, drinking, high-risk, percent, disease, effects, rehm, tnecrep, consumption, esaercni, use, cid esaercni, esaercni tnecrep


reliability and including the specification of all costs in U.S. dollars rather worldwide coverage are lower. However, because the overall than international dollars. volume of consumption and, thus, the average volume per capita are based on production and sales estimates,the measure Population Model of the volume of drinking overall can be considered reliable. These factors leave the stability of relationships between alco- We determined intervention effectiveness using a state transi- hol and chronic disease as the most crucial part of our esti- tion population model (Lauer and others 2003),which traces mates.Some indications suggest that relative risks may not be the development of a regional population taking into account the same in developing countries as in developed countries (for births,deaths,and the specified risk factor—in this case,high- example, for tobacco and lung cancers, see Liu and others risk alcohol use.In addition to population size and structure, 1998). Thus, the CRA’s estimates may be biased, most likely the population model uses a number of epidemiological toward an overestimation ofthe impact ofalcohol. parameters (incidence and prevalence, remission, and cause- One additional problem pertains to the usual epidemiolog- specific and residual rates of mortality) and assigns age- and ical approach as applied to alcohol. Most information about gender-specific health state valuations to both the disease in alcohol and chronic disease is derived from cohorts. Because question and to the nondiseased population.The output ofthe cohorts are frequently not representative ofthe population as a model is an estimate ofthe total healthy life years experienced whole,specific patterns ofconsumption such as binge drinking by the population over a lifetime period (100 years). are often not represented,and thus their influence cannot be We ran the model for a number of possible scenarios, analyzed (Rehm, Gmel, and others 2003). Unfortunately, the including no intervention at all (natural history),current inter- patterns most often missing are those that are the most detri- vention coverage,and scaled-up coverage ofcurrent and possi- chronic diseases that are influenced by patterns of drinking an implementation period of10 years for an intervention pro- other than average volumes is underestimated. gram (after which epidemiological rates return to their natural history levels),from which we derived the number ofaddition- al DALYs averted each year compared with the case for no INTERVENTIONS FOR REDUCING intervention at all.We discounted DALYs at 3 percent but did HIGH-RISK DRINKING not age weight them. The next two sections estimate the burden ofdisease attributa- Effectiveness ble to high-risk
