Chapter
KEYWORDS: cid, alcohol, cid cid, drinking, high-risk, percent, disease, effects, rehm, tnecrep, consumption, esaercni, use, cid esaercni, esaercni tnecrep


and social harm not only are a matter of intervening to save 1998). people from the detrimental effects oftheir own behavior,but • Age-adjusted death rates per 100,000 population for chronic also potentially have a broader effect on the health and well- liver disease and cirrhosis rose from 32.8 for males and being of families and of associates of drinkers. This issue is 4.0for females in 1993 to 42.7 for males and 5.3 for females especially relevant for women:even though men predominate in 1996 (WHO 1999,2000). among high-risk drinkers worldwide (Rehm and others 2004; Room and others 2002),women bear much of the burden of Even though available statistics are limited,the reduction in harm from others’drinking,not only in such forms as domes- alcohol import taxes clearly had a substantial negative effect on resources from greater needs. control measures for alcohol—specifically, new permits for licensed premises,increased excise duties on alcohol,and limi- tations on bars’ opening hours—was not surprising. Alcohol IMPLEMENTATION OF CONTROL STRATEGIES: taxes were increased somewhat in the 1999/2000 budget (U.S. LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE Bank staff that did not take health effects into account called The following paragraphs provide a few concrete examples of for further reductions in maximum tariff rates, identifying interventions or policy changes that illustrate the actual imple- Mauritius as having an antitrade bias on the basis ofthe struc- mentation and effects of control strategies in developing soci- ture of its alcohol and tobacco taxes (Hinkle and Herrou- eties (the examples are taken from Room and others 2002). Aragon 2001). Wallace and Bird (2003) suggest the following general prin- Tax Rate Reduction and the Resulting Disease ciples for setting and collecting alcohol taxes in the context of Burden in Mauritius developing societies from the perspective of revenue genera- tion of about 1 million. These people are of Indian,African, Directorate 2002): European,andChineseorigin.Byreligiousaffiliation,53per- cent are Hindu, 29 percent are Christian, and 17 percent are • Countries around the world need revenues they can raise Muslim.Tourismisthethird-rankedindustryintermsofhard relatively efficiently,but this need is probably more critical currency earnings. In June 1994, the government drastically in the case ofdeveloping nations.That said,alcohol taxes are lowered customs duties on imported alcoholic beverages to probably a good bet for future revenues. 80 percent from rates that had ranged from 200 percent for • Excise taxes on alcohol should be set by alcohol content, wineto600percentforwhiskyandotherspirits(Abdool1998). rather than as a percentage ofthe price. The government made the change under pressure
