Chapter
KEYWORDS: cid, alcohol, cid cid, drinking, high-risk, percent, disease, effects, rehm, tnecrep, consumption, esaercni, use, cid esaercni, esaercni tnecrep


ofimplementation,individual interven- edge and experience in and between developing societies is tions could be more or less effective. urgently needed. • Interventions should ideally be modeled on the basis ofthe A secondary need, but one that is also important, is to specific environment (that is, countries or provinces) and extend the epidemiological database in developing societies on on the harm distribution in the respective environment, levels and patterns of drinking and on the health and social including social harm. consequences of drinking. To this end, better estimation of • General principles, such as restricting access to alcohol, unrecorded alcohol consumption is needed.Which dimensions should be attuned to local cultures and traditions when ofdrinking patterns matter for what kinds ofoutcomes needs interventions are formulated. to be studied in the context of different kinds of developing • Population measures must take into account the complex societies.Studies ofthe effects that the interaction ofdrinking interplay ofpublic opinion and balance the interests ofdif- levels and patterns with poverty and social exclusion have on ferent groups and stakeholders with conflicting values.One the extent of alcohol-related problems are also necessary. ofthese stakeholders is,ofcourse,the alcohol industry. Because most of our knowledge about the health effects of drinking concerns mortality,studies ofalcohol’s role in various Ifpolicy makers keep these principles in mind,reducing the kinds ofmorbidity should be emphasized.Another area where alcohol-related health burden could be one of the most cost- data are lacking is the social harm arising from drinking, for effective targets of population-level health programs in devel- which we cannot presently make the kinds ofestimates that are oping countries.This target is even more attractive because the possible to make for harm to health.Developing and reaching measures discussed will also reduce the alcohol-related social consensus on ways to measure the social harm caused by drink- burden,thereby further contributing to development. ing is a substantial agenda for both the developed and the developing world. Developing the epidemiological database can provide clues NOTES to etiology to be pursued further by biomedical and social 1.The global burden ofdisease attributable to alcohol is 4.0 percent researchers and,thus,offers hope for the development of new using age-weighted DALYs and 3.6 percent using non-age-weighted treatments or preventive interventions.It can provide informa- DALYs.This difference can be explained by the many alcohol-attributable tion on the distribution of drinking patterns and problems in outcomes occurring during adolescence and young adulthood,when age weights are higher. subpopulations that can be used
