Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


). Further, increasing knowledge of GH effects in adults was brought forward by the introduction in 1962 by Utiger et al of a radioimmunoassay for measuring GH in human serum ( 3 ). The clinical syndrome of GH deficiency in adults is a consequence of decreased secretion of GH from the anterior pituitary. Until thirty years ago it was widely held that GH deficiency had little pathophysiological consequence despite the previously mentioned earlier anecdotal reports suggesting presence of GH-remediable symptoms of fatigue and decreased general well-being which responded to GH replacement ( 2 ). In retrospect, these observations of more than fifty years ago described quite precisely the later well-known classical features of the GH deficiency syndrome. However, the imitated supplies of cadaveric GH and the focus on pediatric usage resulted in delayed further elucidation of the adult GH deficiency state. The measurement of serum GH and the production of recombinant human GH (rhGH) in 1981 made studies of GH concentrations in adults as well as effects on the human body of GH deficiency possible, and clinical studies on replacement with rhGH could begin. The initial pivotal trials of GH replacement therapy in adult hypopituitary patients were published in 1989 ( 4 , 5 ). Numerous subsequent studies have provided compelling evidence for the existence of a syndrome of adult GH deficiency ( 6 - 8 ). This is characterized by the variable presence of decreased exercise tolerance, decreased mood and general well-being, reduced bone remodeling activity, change in body fat distribution with increased central adiposity, hyperlipidemia, and increased predisposition to atherogenesis. However, it is important to recognize that adult-onset GH deficiency is due to structural pituitary or hypothalamic disease or cranial irradiation for other pathologies and, therefore, usually occurs in the context of additional features of hypopituitarism ( 9 , 10 ). For this reason, the clinical features attributable to GH deficiency may be compounded by, or directly related to, other pituitary deficiencies. Nonetheless, the fact that GH replacement therapy may favorably alter these clinical features provides considerable surrogate evidence for GH deficiency as a causal factor. Adult GH deficiency is thus a well-recognized clinical entity. It causes abnormalities in substrate metabolism, bone remodeling, body composition, as well as physical, and psychosocial function. Since the mid 80-ies an improvement has been recognized with GH replacement, and this has gradually been incorporated in clinical routine based on the few short-term
