Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


physical, and psychosocial function. Since the mid 80-ies an improvement has been recognized with GH replacement, and this has gradually been incorporated in clinical routine based on the few short-term initial randomized clinical trials, which led to the first international consensus guidelines from Growth Hormone Research Society in 1997 ( 11 ) and updated in 2007 ( 12 ). Fig 1. Growth hormone secretion varies throughout life. From: Ho KY et al. ( 13 ) Less well recognized is the fact that the early clinical trials were based on selected groups of patients with very severe hypopituitarism and therefore had a high a priory likelihood of severe GH deficiency, there were few study participants, short-term treatment, and supraphysiological GH doses were calculated based on the experience from childhood GH deficiency. Despite knowledge of the very high influence of age on the secretion of GH ( Fig 1 ) and subsequently on Insulin-like-Growth Factor-I (IGF-I) the initial adult doses in the studies were nevertheless chosen too high ( 4 , 5 ). Most of the current recommendations and guidelines over the years have thus been based on subsequent retrospective single center experience or data from large surveillance databases run by the pharmaceutical industry as the best surrogates for efficacy and safety of GH therapy of adult GH deficiency ( 14 ). The Hypopituitary Control and Complications Study (HypoCCS) compiled data from 5,893 patients on Humatrope® and reported that significant shifts in diagnostic patterns have occurred over 10 years after approval of the adult GH deficiency indication, with a trend to less severe forms of GH deficiency ( 15 ). This was further documented in a recent publication from KIMS (Pfizer’s International Metabolic Database) where data compiled over 20 years were retrieved for a total of 6,069 patients with adult-onset GH deficiency and treated with Genotropin® from six countries (Belgium, Germany, Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, and UK). The degree of confirmed GH deficiency became less pronounced and more patients with co-morbidities and diabetes were considered for GH replacement therapy, possibly reflecting increased knowledge and confidence in GH therapy gained with time. Thus, the effects of 1 year of GH replacement were similar over the entry year periods despite changes in the patients’ baseline characteristics ( 16 ). Also, less well recognized is the fact that new possible indications for testing and treatment of GH deficiency have emerged and these very likely have a
