Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


secretion may be increasing, perhaps also including treatment of patient groups with autoimmune diseases. Most cases of adult GH deficiency arise in adulthood, but a proportion of them are suffering from childhood onset GH deficiency thus also including congenital causes. The proportion in each clinical center will depend on referral practice. In the Danish nationwide study 27% of GH deficiency patients were of childhood origin ( 23 ). The congenital cases ( figure 2 ) are due to structural lesions such as Rathke’s pouch cysts, pituitary hypoplasia, and midline defects, or to functionally deficient GH biosynthesis and release such as pituitary-specific transcription factors (PROP1, POU1F1, HESX1, LHX3, LHX4), and LEPR or IGSF1. Thus, childhood-onset GH deficiency due to proven genetic defects in GH synthesis is never reversible and therefore does not require retesting prior to treatment on adult indication. The reversibility of isolated idiopathic GH deficiency of childhood is on the other hand well established with normal GH responses on dynamic testing in various series being described in between 30 and 70% of subjects with confirmed GH deficiencies in childhood at completion of linear growth ( 31 - 33 ). Therefore, childhood-onset isolated GH deficiency should always be challenged by rigorous re-evaluation of causes and retesting at completion of final height. Fig 3. Mean (±SEM) serum GH response to insulin hypoglycemia in normal subjects (▲) and obese subjects before (●) and after (○) weight loss. From: Rasmussen et al ( 34 ). Isolated idiopathic GH deficiency is not accepted as de novo deficiency in adults at this point in time. This is particularly important in the assessment of non-specific symptoms in ageing or overweight persons without additional evidence of pituitary disease; body mass index of >32 kg/m2 is associated with reduced GH reserve on dynamic testing in approximately 30% of patients but this is reversible with weight loss ( Fig 3 ) ( 34 - 37 ). However, combined deficiency of GH and other anterior pituitary hormones, in the absence of structural disease, may be a feature of an evolving endocrinopathy due to deficiencies of the transcription factors PIT-1 or Prop-1. These cases, and possibly also others, may account for some of the patients with isolated GH deficiency developing into multiple pituitary hormone insufficiencies in 6-65% of cases over time ( Fig 4 ) ( 38 - 40 ). Fig 4. Number of patients with GH deficiency and at least
