Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


multiple pituitary hormone insufficiencies in 6-65% of cases over time ( Fig 4 ) ( 38 - 40 ). Fig 4. Number of patients with GH deficiency and at least one additional pituitary deficit at baseline who developed central hypothyroidism, hypoadrenalism, hypogonadism or ADH deficiency in relation to years from baseline. From: Klose et al ( 38 ) The sequence of loss of pituitary functions is displayed in Fig 5 , demonstrating that GH deficiency usually occurs early in the progression of pituitary insufficiency, at least in pituitary adenomas ( 10 ). Normalization of GH but also other deficiencies are sometimes observed after selective adenectomy ( 41 - 43 ). Fig 5. Sequence of pituitary hormone loss in relation to increasing mass effect from a pituitary tumor. From: Feldt-Rasmussen & Klose ( 10 ) CLINICAL FEATURES OF GH DEFICIENCY IN ADULTS Adult GH deficiency is associated with an extensive array of non-specific symptoms and physical signs, which are nevertheless recognized by experienced endocrinologists to justify their designation as a clinical syndrome ( 6 - 8 , 44 ). Typical symptoms and signs are listed in Table 2 . Table 2. Typical Symptoms and Signs of the Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency Syndrome View in own window Body composition increased body fat, particularly central adiposity decreased muscle mass decreased muscle function Cardiovascular and metabolism decreased sweating and poor thermoregulation decreased insulin sensitivity and increased prevalence of impaired glucose tolerance increased total and LDL cholesterol and Apo B. Decreased HDL cholesterol accelerated atherogenesis a variable decrease in cardiac muscle mass impaired cardiac function decreased exercise capacity decreased total and extracellular fluid volume increased concentration of plasma fibrinogen and plasminogen activator inhibitor type I Bones decreased bone mineral density, associated with an increased risk of fracture Quality of Life depressed mood reduced concentration increased anxiety fatigue lack of energy levels low self-esteem increased sick days social isolation lack of positive well being Body Composition and Heart GH deficiency is characterized by substantial changes in body composition with increments in total fat, percentage fat, and particularly visceral fat mass ( 45 - 52 ). Methodologies employed for this purpose have included dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) ( 53 ), bioelectrical impedance ( 6 - 8 ), CT scan of specific body parts, or the simple measurement of the ratio of waist to hip circumference ( 52 - 56 ) ( Table 2 ) and there
