Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


), CT scan of specific body parts, or the simple measurement of the ratio of waist to hip circumference ( 52 - 56 ) ( Table 2 ) and there is complete concordance among all studies which have examined these aspects in hypopituitary adults. Importantly, although the prevalence of obesity is increased in hypopituitary adults, the increment in visceral fat is also evident in those patients who are non-obese ( 45 ). In parallel with changes in fat mass, lean body mass is reduced. The latter may explain the reductions in muscle strength ( 57 - 59 ) and exercise tolerance, which have been documented in adult GH deficiency. The degree to which lean body mass is reduced is difficult to determine because of the reduction in total body water which is also evident in the GH deficiency state; body composition measurements, particularly bioelectrical impedance, may overestimate changes in lean body mass as a consequence of alterations in tissue hydration. Furthermore, the reduction in extracellular water, which is compounded by reduced total body sodium in GH deficiency, may be a major factor underlying the reported reductions in exercise capacity ( 60 - 64 ). To this may be added the effect of reduced left ventricular mass and function which have been described in a number of studies ( 65 - 75 ), although some of these studies on cardiac function in GH deficiency have been less clear. Glucose Metabolism In contrast to GH deficiency occurring in children, adult GH deficiency is associated with relative insulin resistance ( 45 , 76 - 79 ) and an increased prevalence of impaired glucose tolerance and diabetes mellitus ( 76 ). The adverse changes in insulin sensitivity are predictably most obvious in obese patients but are also evident in hypopituitary patients with normal body mass index in whom the inverse relationship between insulin sensitivity and central fat mass, which characterizes the 'metabolic syndrome' is clearly seen ( 45 , 76 - 79 ). It is therefore likely that the changes in insulin sensitivity observed in adult GH deficiency are due predominantly to increases in central fat mass. Interestingly, adult subjects with lifetime congenital untreated isolated GH deficiency have reduced β-cell function, no evidence of insulin resistance, and a higher frequency of impaired glucose tolerance ( 79 ).Thus, lifetime, untreated isolated GH deficiency increases insulin sensitivity, but impairs β-cell function, and does not provide protection
