Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


insulin resistance, and a higher frequency of impaired glucose tolerance ( 79 ).Thus, lifetime, untreated isolated GH deficiency increases insulin sensitivity, but impairs β-cell function, and does not provide protection from diabetes ( 79 , 80 ). It has been postulated that changes in body composition and particularly fat mass might be a consequence of unphysiological glucocorticoid replacement. Against this is the fact that the doses of glucocorticoid replacement used in primary adrenal failure, which are similar to those used in hypopituitarism, are not associated with abnormalities of body composition. However, local tissue exposure to either endogenous or exogenous cortisol may be different in secondary as opposed to primary adrenal failure. The GH/IGF-I axis is now recognized to be an important modulator of the activity of the enzyme 11b hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase Type 1 (11bHSD1) ( 81 ). This isoenzyme acts as a predominant reductase, particularly in liver and adipose tissue, increasing the net conversion of inactive cortisone to the active cortisol. The activity of the enzyme is decreased by GH and, as a consequence GH deficiency is associated with a shift in the equilibrium set point in favor of cortisol. It is therefore possible that the increase in central adiposity, which characterizes the GH deficiency state, could be compounded by enhanced exposure to cortisol within adipocytes; hepatic metabolism might be perturbed by a similar mechanism. These mechanisms would tend to increase serum cortisol concentrations in patients receiving hydrocortisone replacement, which is quite often supraphysiological doses, but not in patients with intact ACTH reserve in whom negative feedback would determine maintenance of stable circulating cortisol concentrations. However, GH is also a negative determinant of serum cortisol binding globulin and therefore comparisons of serum total cortisol concentrations between GH deficient and GH replete states are not valid. Atherosclerosis Risk Factors- Lipids and Hypertension Adult GH deficiency is associated with an increase in total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol and apolipoprotein B ( 4 - 8 , 82 , 83 ). A modest decrement in HDL-cholesterol has also been described in some studies. These changes are evident in both sexes and are quantitatively greater in women. Despite GH deficiency related sodium and water depletion, an increased prevalence of hypertension in adult hypopituitarism has been documented and may be related to a reduced activity of nitric oxide synthase, and consequent increased peripheral vascular resistance, as a result of GH deficiency. The changes in lipoprotein metabolism, body composition,
