Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


may be related to a reduced activity of nitric oxide synthase, and consequent increased peripheral vascular resistance, as a result of GH deficiency. The changes in lipoprotein metabolism, body composition, insulin sensitivity, and peripheral vascular resistance indicated above would predict increased atherogenesis in the GH deficiency state. Indeed, several studies have reported an increase in ultrasonographically determined intima-media thickness and plaque formation in large arteries of patients with adult-onset GH deficiency as well as in adults with childhood-onset disease ( 84 , 85 ). Bone Mineralization Decreased bone mineral density is a recognized phenomenon in adult hypopituitary patients ( 53 , 82 , 86 - 92 ) and is associated with an increased fracture risk ( Fig 6 ) ( 92 - 96 ). Measurements of markers of bone formation and bone resorption are consistent with a low bone turnover state in GH deficiency. Deficits in bone mineral content and density are more striking in adults with childhood-onset GH deficiency and this is likely to be a consequence of failure to achieve genetic potential peak bone mass either because of inadequate GH replacement in childhood or its early cessation at the time of slowing of linear growth ( 86 ). Failure to achieve peak bone mass has important implications for the future development of osteoporosis and fracture risk. In the study by Lange et al ( 96 ), it was found that patients with idiopathic childhood onset GH deficiency, who at retest in adulthood did not have GH deficiency according to adult criteria, had reduced serum IGF-I and BMD/BMC compared to controls. This observation was also made in the patients who did have persistent GH deficiency in adulthood. The findings may reflect the fact that the present diagnostic criteria for adult GH deficiency (i.e., response to the ITT) do not reflect the clinical consequences of disordered GH-IGF axis in childhood onset GH deficiency young adults who were treated with GH in childhood. Alternatively, despite seemingly adequate GH treatment in childhood an optimal peak bone mass in adolescence may never have been reached in either of the groups. Noteworthy, IGF-I levels correlated with clinical signs of the adult GH deficiency syndrome. The situation in hypopituitarism is further complicated by the frequent accompaniment of gonadal steroid deficiency, often of unknown duration, which has a documented effect on the BMD ( 97 ). In addition, glucocorticoid replacement for primary adrenal failure is associated
