Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


accompaniment of gonadal steroid deficiency, often of unknown duration, which has a documented effect on the BMD ( 97 ). In addition, glucocorticoid replacement for primary adrenal failure is associated with modest reductions in bone mineral density, but over-replacement in hypopituitary patients does accelerate bone loss ( 98 ). Thus, glucocorticoid over-replacement may increase the prevalence of vertebral fractures in patients with untreated GH deficiency. However, treatment of GH deficiency seems to protect the skeleton from the deleterious effects of glucocorticoid overtreatment in hypopituitary patients. Along the same line, data suggest that the characteristics of patients in the various diagnostic groups of hypopituitarism depend on the primary disease which resulted in GH deficiency, and that the clinical expression of GH deficiency does not differ between the groups. Patients with previous hypercortisolism showed more long-term effects of their disease, such as diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and fractures ( 99 ), and patients with former Cushing’s disease have more fractures ( 100 ). Furthermore, Lange et al reported abnormal bone collagen morphology and decreased bone strength in rats with isolated GH deficiency ( 101 ), which might provide a co-explanation for the increased fracture rate in GH deficiency. Whether similar conditions are present in patients with GH deficiency needs further study, but results from a human study of muscle and tendon biopsies from patients with GH deficiency or acromegaly indicated a collagen-stimulating role of local IGF-I in human connective tissue and add to the understanding of musculoskeletal pathology in patients with either high or low GH/IGF-I axis activity ( 102 ). Fig. 6. Comparisons of the prevalence of (A) all fractures in the EVOS (European Vertebral Osteoporosis Study) participants and in KIMS participants over the age of 60 years and (B) all fractures in naïve and non-naïve KIMS patients and of fractures of the radius in naïve and non-naïve and in patients with adult onset (AO) and childhood onset (CO) disease. From: Wüster et al ( 92 ) Nonetheless, available evidence indicates that qualitatively similar changes in bone mineral density are found in adult-onset isolated GH deficiency as in panhypopituitarism, therefore supporting a role for GH deficiency in the pathogenesis. Furthermore, these abnormalities in bone metabolism and bone density are favorably influenced by GH replacement (see later). Quality of Life Decreased psychological well-being and quality of life (QoL) are recognized as particularly important for patients with GH deficiency and from the patients' perspective
