Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


GH replacement (see later). Quality of Life Decreased psychological well-being and quality of life (QoL) are recognized as particularly important for patients with GH deficiency and from the patients' perspective they have arguably become the major indication for GH replacement therapy. In some countries such as UK, decreased QoL is a needed symptom of a certain quantitative level as measured by validated GH deficiency questionnaires before even considering testing and treatment for GH deficiency according to National Institute for Health and Care Excellence or NICE ( 103 ). QoL is also related to a number of other features of GH deficiency. Thus Chikani et al. found subnormal anaerobic capacity, which independently predicted stair-climbing capacity and QoL in adults with GH deficiency. The authors concluded that GH regulates anaerobic capacity, which determines QoL and selective aspects of physical function ( Fig 7 ) ( 104 ). Fig 7. Relationship between stair-climb performance and anaerobic power (A) and VO2max (B), and between daily step counts quantified by pedometry and anaerobic power (C) and VO2max (D) in the combined groups of 13 adults with GHD (●) and matched normal subjects (○). LBM, lean body mass; VO2max, maximal oxygen consumption. From: Chikani et al ( 104 ) QoL issues have been examined using various generic measures including the Nottingham Health Profile and the Psychological General Well Being Schedule ( 105 - 108 ). These instruments determine various aspects of health-related and needs-based quality of life and the most prevalent findings from various studies have been deficits in the domains of mood, anxiety, and social interaction. In one of the studies the Nottingham Health profile was adapted to a 9-year follow-up study of adults with untreated GH deficiency. During this 9-year study, small but significant declines in health were observed in GH-deficient adults who remained untreated. By contrast, the patients who received GH continuously experienced improvements in energy levels while all other areas of QoL were maintained. The beneficial effects of GH on QoL are therefore maintained with long-term GH replacement and obviate the reduction in QoL seen over time in untreated GH-deficient adults ( 106 ). Although these findings are readily apparent in many patients with adult-onset GH deficiency, it has proven more difficult to discern similar phenomena in patients with childhood-onset disease. This may be due to at least two factors. Firstly, standard generic quality of life instruments may be insensitive in the
