Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


to discern similar phenomena in patients with childhood-onset disease. This may be due to at least two factors. Firstly, standard generic quality of life instruments may be insensitive in the investigation of young people and secondly, there may be a major element of psychological adaptation or decreased expectation when the condition has commenced early in life. In an attempt to improve the reproducibility of studies of QoL in adults with GH deficiency, questionnaires have been developed which focus on those symptoms, which are most frequently documented in hypopituitary adults during extended open interviews. One such instrument, which is now widely used for the baseline and longitudinal follow-up of patients, is the Quality-of-Life Assessment in Growth Hormone Deficient Adults (QoL-AGHDA) ( 107 - 111 ), which is also the one required by NICE. This is a needs-based instrument consisting of 25 questions with a yes/no answer format and the final score is obtained by summating all the positive responses; a higher score, to a maximum of 25, denotes poorer quality of life. The questionnaire has been shown to be reproducible in a variety of languages and satisfies Rasch analysis criteria for unidimensionality, construct validity, and hierarchical ordering of items ( 108 ). In the long-term KIMS study surprisingly, QoL-AGHDA scores increased, indicating worsening of QoL across the entry year periods( 16 ). This possibly reflected a patient selection bias, due to the change in the underlying etiology of GH deficiency: for example, the increase in the proportion of patients with traumatic brain injury or other less defined diagnoses may affect QoL. Alternatively, patients with poor QoL were more likely to receive GH treatment ( 15 ). Mortality Over the past decades it has been increasingly recognized that hypopituitarism is associated with premature mortality. Studies in Sweden and the UK have demonstrated a two-to-three-fold increase in standardized mortality ratio, most striking in women ( 112 - 115 ). Specific pituitary pathologies, especially craniopharyngioma, may convey an increased mortality rate, which is likely to be independent of specific hormonal deficiencies ( 114 ). However, bearing in mind the numerical preponderance of pituitary macroadenomas as the cause of hypopituitarism, the overall findings from these studies favor an increase in morbidity and mortality from macrovascular disease and, in one of the Swedish studies, predominantly cerebrovascular disease ( 113 ). The increase in cardiovascular mortality in the initial Swedish study ( 116 ) was paralleled by
