Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


disease and, in one of the Swedish studies, predominantly cerebrovascular disease ( 113 ). The increase in cardiovascular mortality in the initial Swedish study ( 116 ) was paralleled by a reduction in deaths from malignant disease in males but this has not been a definite feature of subsequent observations. Much debate surrounds the mechanism for increased prevalence of vascular disease. These patients were replaced with glucocorticoids, thyroxine, and in some cases gonadal steroids, which prompted the conclusion that untreated GH deficiency was the major causal factor ( 117 ). However, this interpretation assumed that replacement of adrenal and thyroid deficiency was optimal and must also take into account that estrogen deficiency may not have been replaced. In fact, replacement, particularly with hydrocortisone, was often supraphysiological ( 118 - 120 ), while thyroxine replacement was more likely underdosed ( 10 , 120 - 123 ), and estrogen is often not replaced in females of the fertile age ( 124 ). Recent clinical practice has rectified this mistake and consequently hydrocortisone doses are now significantly lower and thyroxine doses significantly higher than when the original mortality data were collected. Anecdotally, a recent paper on lifelong untreated isolated GH deficiency due to a mutation in the GH releasing hormone (GHRH) receptor gene found no alteration of longevity in this highly selected genetic background ( 125 ). Nonetheless, the fact that untreated GH deficiency, in the context of varying degrees of hypopituitarism, is associated with an adverse cardiovascular risk profile provides circumstantial evidence for a causative role for GH deficiency to mediate increased rates of vascular disease ( 45 , 54 , 77 , 84 , 85 ). DIAGNOSTIC PROCEDURES GH is secreted in a pulsatile fashion with serum measurements varying between peaks and troughs, the latter falling below the assay detection limit of conventional radioimmunoassays. For this reason, a diagnosis of GH deficiency cannot be made by measurement of baseline serum GH concentration although a single serum GH measurement taken fortuitously at the time of a secretory peak may serve to exclude GH deficiency. Therefore, the diagnosis of GH deficiency is dependent on the demonstration of a subnormal rise in serum GH in response to one or more dynamic stimulation tests. Many diagnostic tests have been developed for GH deficiency, most of them for patients with established hypothalamo-pituitary disease with a high a priori test outcome for deficiency. The same tests are
