Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


diagnostic tests have been developed for GH deficiency, most of them for patients with established hypothalamo-pituitary disease with a high a priori test outcome for deficiency. The same tests are now also used for diagnosing GH deficiency in a number of other potential patient populations raising high risk of misuse and wasting of resources. Further, the technical performance of hormone assays is highly variable among different laboratories( 126 ). Thus, diagnosing patients with GH deficiency should first of all consider who should be tested for GH deficiency, the validity of the chosen stimulation test including the proper diagnostic cut-off concentration of GH, and the availability of local resources and expertise. As stated in the 2019 ACCE/ACE paper, cases with no suggestive history such as hypothalamo-pituitary disease or cranial therapy i.e., cases with a low pretest probability or low a priori likelihood of GH deficiency ( 18 ), GH stimulation testing should not be performed. The recommendations for stimulation testing of patients for adult GH deficiency are provided in the guidelines mentioned in Fig. 8 ( 11 , 12 , 18 , 19 ). Noteworthy all guidelines mention the patients eligible for testing as having either hypothalamo-pituitary pathology, verified GH deficiency in childhood, or have had intracranial irradiation. Options include the insulin tolerance test (ITT), glucagon test, and combinations of arginine and GH releasing hormone (GHRH) or GH secretagogues. Recently, the macimorelin test was approved for the diagnosis of adult GH deficiency ( 127 ). Fig 8. Guideline recommendations for whom to test for GH deficiency. Fig 9. Plasma human growth hormone (HGH) and blood glucose concentrations after insulin administered intravenously. (PAR, a hypophysectomized patient; other patients, normal). From: Roth et al ( 128 ) The first description of stimulation of GH upon hypoglycemia was published already in 1963 ( 128 ) ( Fig 9 ), and the insulin stimulation test (ITT) is still considered the ‘gold’ standard stimulation test for GH deficiency. The ITT is the best validated test, and has been demonstrated to distinguish reliably between GH responses in patients with structural pituitary disease and those of age matched controls across the adult age range ( Fig 10A ) ( 129 ). A variety of serum GH cut off points have been used to define GH deficiency. However, an international consensus (convened by the Growth Hormone Research Society) has defined severe GH deficiency in adults as a peak response
