Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


points have been used to define GH deficiency. However, an international consensus (convened by the Growth Hormone Research Society) has defined severe GH deficiency in adults as a peak response to ITT of <3 µg/L ( 11 ). It is essential that the ITT is carried out in dedicated units under strict supervision by experienced staff and it is contraindicated in patients with epilepsy and/or ischemic heart disease. The ITT may have a questionable reproducibility, probably due to low degree of robustness to everyday life as it strongly depends on pre-test events as well as on the patient ( 130 , 131 ). Further, the ITT holds a certain risk especially in inexperienced hands ( 132 ), although it is quite safe in experienced centers ( 133 ). A particular advantage of insulin and glucagon testing is the simultaneous assessment of the adequacy of ACTH reserve. Combinations of GHRH and either arginine, pyridostigmine (or GH secretagogues) are the most potent stimuli of GH secretion and normative data for these tests have been set to define GH deficiency ( 28 , 134 - 136 ). These tests appear to be reliable and practical, with few contraindications and the GHRH + arginine test may eventually replace ITT as the diagnostic test of choice ( 134 , 137 ) in European countries. However, peak GH in response to these tests as well as to the glucagon test is highly affected by BMI, and thus BMI related cut off levels are mandatory ( 135 ). Choice of stimulation test may be quite difficult, and the evidence from studies is variable. Furthermore, GHRH is not available in USA, which has prompted reassessment of the use of the glucagon as alternative test when ITT is contraindicated ( 18 , 138 - 141 ). However, the diagnostic accuracy of the glucagon stimulation test is unclear especially in patients who are overweight. Recently, the macimorelin test showed promising good overall agreement with the ITT at the same cut point, and seemed unaffected by BMI, age, and sex ( 127 ), and is now considered a good alternative. Fig 10. Results of tests of GH deficiency in normal (○) and hypopituitary patients (●). From: Hoffman et al ( 129 ) As a result of an age related increase in somatostatinergic tone, spontaneous GH secretion declines by approximately 14% per decade of adult life but this does not alter substantially
