Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


) As a result of an age related increase in somatostatinergic tone, spontaneous GH secretion declines by approximately 14% per decade of adult life but this does not alter substantially the response to dynamic tests of GH reserve and the same cut-off GH concentrations can be used across the age range ( 142 ). However, several tests pose more risks in elderly individuals (e.g., ITT, glucagon) compared to the young ( 141 , 143 ), and older people are more likely to be obese with a high waist circumference. They are therefore more at risk of getting a false positive test outcome ( 144 , 145 ), at least if not lowering the cut-off GH concentration. In general, to avoid misdiagnosing hypopituitary patients with GH deficiency, the importance of using local laboratory assay and test specific cut-off concentrations cannot be overemphasized ( 28 , 146 - 149 ). Severe obesity may decrease the GH response to insulin hypoglycemia to levels suggestive of GH deficiency but this is a completely reversible phenomenon if weight loss is achieved ( Fig 3 ) ( 34 ). Body composition is by far the most important factor that needs to be considered when GH responses are evaluated and waist corrected GH-responses may be superior to BMI-corrected cut-offs ( 130 ). However, regarding the impact of BMI or waist circumference on GH-responses, further studies are needed to establish cut-off values also considering age, sex and ethnicity. Glucocorticoid therapy, including substitution therapy, probably reduces GH-responses to the GHRH + arginine test in line with the PD–GHRH test ( 150 ). Failure to recognize the impact of obesity on stimulated GH secretion may result in a false positive diagnosis of GH deficiency ( 28 , 34 , 37 , 149 , 151 ) and it is now standard practice that the diagnosis should be made in conjunction with evidence of structural pituitary disease and/or the documentation of additional pituitary hormone deficiencies. The latter provide robust support for a diagnosis of GH deficiency because of the increasing probability of GH deficiency in the presence of one (c.80%) or more (c.90%) additional pituitary trophic hormone deficiencies ( 152 , 153 ) ( Fig 11 ). Sadly, one publication ( 154 ) documented that many centers do not comply with recommendations, since the percent of patients meeting recommended test-specific cut points varied from 32 to 100%, depending on the stimulation test
