Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


) documented that many centers do not comply with recommendations, since the percent of patients meeting recommended test-specific cut points varied from 32 to 100%, depending on the stimulation test used. There was no mentioning of laboratory or assay specific cut-off concentrations. The study thereby highlights the need for continued education regarding treatment guidelines for adult GH deficiency, including the testing procedures. Fig 11. Likelihood of GH deficiency related to number of pituitary hormone deficiencies other than GH deficiency. From: Sönksen PH et al. ( 155 ) GH secretory reserve may also be assessed by measurement of serum concentrations of the GH-dependent peptides IGF-I, IGF binding protein 3 (IGFBP3) and the acid labile subunit of the ternary complex (ALS). Of these, IGF-I is the most sensitive marker of GH action and provides a reliable test of GH reserve in childhood-onset disease. Its diagnostic value for GH deficiency is limited by the fact that between 30 and 40% of individuals with severe GH deficiency of adult-onset will demonstrate a serum IGF-I concentration in the low part of the normal age related reference range ( 116 ). Nonetheless, in the absence of liver dysfunction or malnutrition, which may secondarily reduce IGF-I generation, and if determined in the appropriate clinical context of pituitary disease and hypopituitarism, a decreased serum IGF-I provides a strong confirmatory indication for GH deficiency ( 129 ). Testing of patients with suspected non-classical causes of hypopituitarism is much more challenging, since most available evidence of diagnostic reliability has been based on patients with structural hypothalamo-pituitary pathology, genetic causes of GH deficiency, documented GH deficiency in childhood, or brain irradiation. In recent years there has been considerable focus on etiologies previously considered rare causes of hypopituitarism. Published series of hypopituitarism in traumatic brain injury and subarachnoid hemorrhage suggested prevalence rates up to 25-50% ( 17 , 156 , 157 ), and both traumatic brain injury and subarachnoid hemorrhage were subsequently highlighted in the guidelines as new indication for GH testing ( 12 , 19 ). Still it is notable that the large majority of these patients had isolated deficiencies and in particular isolated GH deficiency ( 27 ). Acknowledging the many aforementioned caveats for the diagnosis of GH deficiency these cases may have been strongly overemphasized also because most data were based on only single testing. The fairness of such concerns was evident in a Danish study showing a low
