Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


cases may have been strongly overemphasized also because most data were based on only single testing. The fairness of such concerns was evident in a Danish study showing a low concordance of repeated testing for GH deficiency in TBI ( Fig 12 ) ( 28 ), which underlines the importance of stringent testing including a second confirmatory test in patients with low a-priory likelihood of GH deficiency. This approach is consistent with the ACCE/ACE 2019 guidelines ( 18 ). Fig 12. The prevalence of insufficient test responses in the total cohort (A) and in the subgroup undergoing dual testing (B). A, Prevalence of insufficient test responses to either ITT or PD-GHRH/GHRH-arg (i.e., combined tests) in the total cohort of TBI patients (black columns) and healthy controls (white columns), respectively, as defined by either local or guideline-derived cutoffs. Whiskers indicate the 95% CI. GHD was more frequently diagnosed in TBI patients tested by a combined test as compared with ITT, and even more so if guideline cutoff values were applied instead of local cutoffs. The results from healthy controls illustrate the high false-positive rate resulting from application of guideline-derived cutoffs, which was significantly above the generally accepted 2.5% for the combined tests ( P = .02). *, P < .005 compared with patients. B, Prevalence of insufficient test responses in the subgroups of patients (black columns, n = 169) and controls (white columns, n = 117) undergoing dual testing, as defined by either local cutoff values or guideline-derived cutoff values. Confirmed insufficiency was defined as a concordant positive result to both the ITT and a combined test. Whiskers indicate the 95% CI. [Reproduced with permission]. From: Klose et al. ( 28 ) Main Conclusions True GH deficiency is an important clinical entity that should be tested, treated, and managed properly. On the other hand, it is important to avoid false diagnosis, which might lead to unnecessary life-long therapy with GH replacement. The diagnosis of GH deficiency is rather simple in patients with a typical structural pathology in the hypothalamo-pituitary region, especially in cases of multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies and low IGF-I concentrations, where the likelihood of GH deficiency exceeds 97% ( Fig 11 ), and a stimulation test is rarely indicated ( Fig 8 ). In all other cases a stimulation test is needed for the diagnosis and in some patients 2 tests should be performed in order to avoid the
