Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


( Fig 8 ). In all other cases a stimulation test is needed for the diagnosis and in some patients 2 tests should be performed in order to avoid the risk of overtreatment on a false basis. The knowledge of one’s own laboratory performance as well as own reference population data with BMI cut offs for control persons is crucial in interpretation of results. The same holds true for the testing of the other hormone axes, some of which have similar challenges in diagnosing correctly in hypothalamo-pituitary disease states. New indications for GH deficiency testing should not be accepted without prior stringent evaluation of test reliability for the particular condition in question by several tests, and preferably in different laboratories, given that the classical GH deficiency phenotype such as obesity, fatigue and QoL often has other causes than GH deficiency. Table 3. Strategy for Diagnosing Adult GH Deficiency for the Purpose of Replacement Therapy View in own window Assess basis for hypopituitary diagnosis Check if the patient is eligible for GH replacement Measure IGF-I age related reference SDS – if below 0 SDS continue testing Assess number of other pituitary hormone deficiencies Make sure other pituitary hormone deficiencies are properly replaced Choose GH stimulation test(s) Perform stimulation test according to: Guidelines Proper local test validation Own reference cut off based on local assay and normal reference population BMI Other confounders MR/CT scan of pituitary in patients with abnormalities QoL assessment (e.g., QoL-AGHDA)(requirement in UK) Severe GH deficiency as defined by the respective GH stimulation tests ( fig. 8 ) GH: Growth Hormone; SDS: Standard Deviation Score; IGF-I: Insulin like Growth factor-I; BMI: Body mass index; MR: Magnetic Resonance; CT: Computer Tomography; QoL: Quality of Life; AGHDA: Adult growth hormone deficiency assessment. RESPONSE TO GH REPLACEMENT IN ADULT GROWTH HORMONE DEFICIENCY Quality of Life and Psychological Well-Being Potentially, the greatest immediate indication for growth hormone supplementation is in patients who are assessed as having impaired QoL, and this is in some countries, such as the UK, a prerequisite for reimbursement ( table 4 ) ( 103 ). This recommendation from NICE is unchanged and has not been updated. Table 4. NICE Recommendations for Treatment with Growth Hormone View in own window NICE has recommended that recombinant human growth hormone should be used only for adults with severe growth hormone deficiency that is severely affecting their quality of life. To be a
