Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


in many patients provides strong evidence against a pure placebo effect in this respect. Furthermore, the duration of benefit in QoL, which has been observed for periods of up to 10 years, is similarly indicative of a therapeutic rather than a placebo phenomenon ( 106 , 111 , 160 ). Patients QoL improves most rapidly in the first 12 months of treatment, but even after this there is continued improvement towards the country specific population mean, with particular improvement in problems socializing, tenseness, and self-confidence, which normalize to the background population ( 161 ). The improvement is seen in patients with all etiologies of GH deficiency including previous acromegaly ( 162 - 164 ), isolated GH deficiency ( 56 ) and previous Cushing’s disease ( 99 , 100 ). However, not all aspects of QoL normalize and this is particularly true in patients under 60 yrs of age. The reasons for the differences in QoL outcome between the early studies and current clinical practice has been the subject of much debate and at least three factors are likely to be particularly relevant. Firstly, the initial randomized control trials utilized GH doses based on body weight or surface area and did not take account of the substantial variation in individual responsiveness to GH occurring as a result of gender and other factors. This strategy resulted in excessive GH doses in men and obese subjects and relative undertreatment of women. The adverse symptoms associated with excess GH doses included arthralgia and myalgia, due to GH-induced anti-natriuresis, and it is probable that these factors may have obscured potential subjective benefit. In addition, it is probable that the strict entry criteria inherent in any placebo-controlled study designed to prove concept may have inadvertently eliminated patients who were most likely to demonstrate a benefit in QoL ( Table 3 ) ( 164 ). Finally, the current strategy of GH replacement is not to await the full-blown phenotype to develop, but rather to start replacement as soon as the diagnosis is made, as with any other hormone replacement. These latter phenomena are readily evident when baseline indices of QoL in patients enrolled into randomized control trials are compared with those of patients commencing GH replacement selectively in the clinical practice setting ( 53 , 158 , 165 ), and even more so with the changed selection of patients eligible for GH replacement over the years (
