Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


GHD, growth hormone deficiency; AO, adult onset; CO, childhood onset; ALL, acute lymphoblastic leukemia CP, craniopharyngioma; CS, Cushing’s Disease; NFPA, non-functional pituitary adenoma; SS, Sheehan’s syndrome; TBI, traumatic brain injury; n, number of subjects; PC, placebo-controlled; PCDB, placebo-controlled, double-blind; open, open label; Tests used to quantify QoL ↑, =, ↓, change in QoL parameter in GH-treated patients and when available compared to controls (Modified and updated from Hull and Harvey( 171 ) with permission from the authors). From: Klose et al ( 164 ) Body Composition: Fat Mass, Fat Distribution, and Lean Body Mass GH replacement produces a significant redistribution of body mass, decreasing body fat, and particularly central fat, and increasing lean body mass ( 6 - 9 , 172 ). Body fluid balance is also restored. The beneficial effects of GH on total body fat and its distribution have been examined by means of dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA), computerized tomography (CT), bioelectrical impedance, and ratio of waist to hip circumference ( 55 , 173 ) ( fig 13 ) and qualitatively similar results have been obtained with excellent concordance between virtually all reported studies. The restoration of normal total body water may result in an artefactual increment in determinations of lean body mass particularly when the latter is measured by bioelectrical impedance. The abnormal fat distribution in GH deficiency is characterized by an increase in the ratio of waist to hip circumference and during long term follow up, serial measurement of waist circumference provides a simple, rapid and reproducible means of monitoring improvement in body fat distribution. Fig. 13. Median waist/hip ratio at 0, 6 and 12 months after commencement of GH replacement, men versus women. From: Data from Drake et al ( 173 ) Reductions in body fat are attributed to the lipolytic effect of GH but additional indirect hormonal effects may be important. The conversion of thyroxine to triiodothyronine was shown to be enhanced by GH in early studies of GH replacement ( 123 , 174 ) although this is a dose related phenomenon and is less evident with the lower doses in current use. However, levothyroxine replacement has very likely not been optimal ( 121 , 122 ), and increased dosages have improved the lipids over time ( 121 , 122 ). Also, the enzyme 11ßHSD1 that reduces cortisone to the active hormone cortisol shows increased activity in the GH deficient state and is
