Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


lipids over time ( 121 , 122 ). Also, the enzyme 11ßHSD1 that reduces cortisone to the active hormone cortisol shows increased activity in the GH deficient state and is normalized by low dose GH replacement ( 81 ); the consequent increase in cortisol metabolism may result in reduced tissue specific exposure to glucocorticoid in adipocytes and hepatocytes ( 81 ). The latter effect provides an additional explanation for decreased total and central fat mass during GH replacement. Serum Lipoprotein Profiles The effect of GH replacement on lipoprotein profiles has been examined in numerous studies using differing dose regimens. Regardless of whether the GH dose has been based on body weight or titrated against serum IGF-I the universal finding has been a reduction of serum total cholesterol, accounted for virtually entirely by a reduction in LDL-cholesterol ( 48 , 69 , 160 , 175 - 182 ). The extent of this reduction is greatest in those patients with higher baseline serum cholesterol ( fig 14 ), and independent on obesity variables ( 182 ). The median change in an unselected hypopituitary population is between 0.3 and 0.4 mmol/L ( 48 , 175 ). Importantly, the improvement in LDL-cholesterol is additive to the effects of HMG CoA reductase inhibitors if the patient is receiving concurrent therapy and possibly even synergistic ( 173 ), as well as synergistic with optimization of levothyroxine therapy ( 120 - 123 ). The degree of reduction of serum LDL-cholesterol during GH replacement would predict an overall reduction in cardiovascular events in the range of 20%. In addition, some studies have documented an increase in serum HDL-cholesterol, but serum triglyceride levels remain unchanged. Serum lipoprotein(a) has been shown to increase in some studies in patients who demonstrated favorable changes in LDL-cholesterol ( 45 , 183 , 184 ) but the data remain somewhat contradictory by virtue of lipoprotein(a) assay differences; the overall significance in terms of cardiovascular risk is unclear ( 185 ). Fig 14. Relationship between the lowering of cholesterol (∆Cholesterol) and the pretreatment serum Cholesterol concentration. Derived from data from Florakis et al ( 175 ) Carbohydrate Metabolism and Insulin Sensitivity Untreated GH deficiency of adult onset is associated with reduced insulin sensitivity, which is, at least in part, related to increased central adiposity ( 45 , 77 ). The latter improves within the first 3 months of GH replacement but this does not result
