Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


at least in part, related to increased central adiposity ( 45 , 77 ). The latter improves within the first 3 months of GH replacement but this does not result in an immediate improvement in insulin sensitivity ( 45 ). In fact, because of the antagonistic effects of GH on the actions of insulin mediated by hepatic effects, and the increase in circulating free fatty acids, there is on average a further decline in insulin sensitivity, which subsequently returns to baseline over the first year of GH replacement therapy ( 77 ). The decline in insulin sensitivity during GH therapy is associated with a slight elevation of fasting plasma glucose and a parallel increase in glycated hemoglobin, both within the normal reference range. Importantly, the increment in glycated hemoglobin is not evident in patients with prior abnormalities of glucose tolerance but is significantly correlated with baseline body mass index, the latter emphasizing the importance of additional dietary and lifestyle advice in these patients. Reference to the KIMS database indicates that there is an increased baseline prevalence of impaired glucose tolerance and diabetes mellitus prior to commencing GH replacement but subsequently the incidence of new cases of diabetes is not increased provided the body mass index is accounted for. Thus, a recent study of data from the NordiNet® surveillance database concluded that 4 years' GH-replacement therapy did not adversely affect glucose homeostasis in the majority of adults with GH deficiency ( 186 ). Yet, the long-term effects of GH replacement on insulin sensitivity can still not be considered quite clear although they are likely to vary depending on age, duration of pituitary disease, and increase in weight/BMI/waist circumference. Cardiac Function The GH/IGF-I axis is a recognized modulator of cardiac function and a positive inotropic effect of GH/IGF-I occurs early in the natural history of acromegaly. In contrast, GH deficiency is associated with a reduction in left ventricular wall mass and cardiac output, which is most evident in childhood-onset disease. The variable discordance between childhood-onset and adult-onset GH deficiency in this regard is likely to be due to additional factors impacting on cardiac morphology in adult-onset, including an increased prevalence of hypertension. GH replacement results in increased left ventricular wall mass, fractional shortening, stroke volume and favorable changes in the echocardiographically determined e/a ratio reflecting improved diastolic function ( 8 , 65 - 75 ). In some studies, in adult-onset patients, left
