Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


shortening, stroke volume and favorable changes in the echocardiographically determined e/a ratio reflecting improved diastolic function ( 8 , 65 - 75 ). In some studies, in adult-onset patients, left ventricular hypertrophy has been documented during GH replacement, confirming further the heterogeneity in response to GH replacement. Importantly, GH replacement does not increase blood pressure; in fact, a modest reduction may be seen in patients with pre-existing hypertension reflecting increased generation of nitric oxide as a result of activation of nitric oxide synthase. Exercise Capacity and Performance Increased exercise capacity, as measured by maximal oxygen uptake, power output, and isometric muscle strength, has been observed during GH replacement in GH deficient adults ( 63 , 64 , 187 , 188 ). A meta-analysis concluded that evidence from short-term controlled studies failed to support a benefit on muscle strength of GH replacement in GH deficient patients, which is likely to occur over a longer time-course, as seen in open-label studies ( 188 ) ( Fig 15 ). The impact of these changes for individual patients is variable and dependent on age and previous exercise requirements. It is intuitively probable that the improvements depend at least in part on improvements in lean body mass. However, restoration of normal circulating volume may also play a positive role ( 170 ). In addition, improvement in psychological well-being might be expected to enhance physical activity whilst the latter may have a reciprocal beneficial effect on well-being. Fig 15. Per cent change from baseline in lean body mass (Panel A), fat mass (Panel B), anaerobic power (Panel C) and VO2max (Panel D) following 1 month of placebo and 1 month of GH (randomized controlled study) and 6 months of GH (open-label study) in 18 patients with GH deficiency. From: Chikani et al ( 170 ). Indices of Bone Remodeling and Bone Mineral Density GH deficiency is associated with reduced activity of bone formation and resorption. GH replacement reverses this situation rapidly resulting in increases in markers of bone formation (e.g., osteocalcin and bone specific alkaline phosphatase) and bone resorption (e.g., urine deoxypyridinoline) ( Fig 16 ) ( 189 ). Fig 16. Markers of bone turnover during 18 months of GH (▲) treatment in a randomized, placebo- controlled (O), double blinded study. Values are given as means (^S.E.). The P values for differences of change from baseline between GH- and placebo-treated patients are *P, 0:05; **P, 0:01;
