Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


controlled (O), double blinded study. Values are given as means (^S.E.). The P values for differences of change from baseline between GH- and placebo-treated patients are *P, 0:05; **P, 0:01; ***P, 0:001; ****P, 0:0001: Creat, creatinine. From: Sneppen et al ( 189 ). This increase in bone metabolism eventually results in an increase in bone mineral density (BMD) but this is not evident for approximately 18 months of treatment and is preceded by a reduction attributable to an increase in the bone remodeling space ( 53 , 93 , 189 - 197 ). The fact that BMD increases under the influence of GH replacement at physiological doses provides important surrogate evidence for an etiological role for GH deficiency in mediating the reduced BMD observed in hypopituitarism. The improvement is quantitatively more obvious in men than women despite the achievement of similar serum IGF-I SD scores and therefore constitutes a genuine difference in gender susceptibility ( fig 17 ). Fig 17. Bone mineral density of the lumbar spine during long-term GH replacement therapy. From Drake et al ( 173 ). Although the improvement in BMD would predict a reduction in fracture rates confirmation of this necessitates long term follow up. Evidence is now emerging supporting a lower fracture risk with GH replacement ( 92 , 198 ). A prospective cohort study has shown that GH deficient patients treated with GH before the onset of osteoporosis have a lower fracture risk than those untreated, over a mean follow up of 4.6 years (SD 3.8)( 199 ). Increased fracture risk in child onset GH deficiency women can most likely be explained by interaction between oral estrogen and the GH-IGF-I axis. The adequate substitution rate of testosterone (90%) and GH (94%) may have resulted in significantly lower fracture risk in adult-onset GH deficiency men ( 198 ). Finally, although in vitro studies have shown that GH has a direct effect on bone remodeling, present physiological concepts and the results of clinical trials from 1996 to 2008 suggest that the anabolic changes in muscle mass and strength may also contribute to changes in BMD/BMC in GH-treated adult GH deficiency patients ( 200 ). GH REPLACEMENT IN ELDERLY HYPOPITUITARY PATIENTS Published work indicates that the baseline characteristics and response to GH replacement in hypopituitary patients aged over 65 years are qualitatively similar to those in younger patients ( 52 , 201 - 203 ). Importantly, GH
