Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


characteristics and response to GH replacement in hypopituitary patients aged over 65 years are qualitatively similar to those in younger patients ( 52 , 201 - 203 ). Importantly, GH deficiency in the elderly is distinguishable on dynamic tests from the well-recognized physiological reduction in spontaneous GH secretion with advancing age ( 142 ). It is therefore appropriate to consider older hypopituitary patients for GH replacement and to apply similar criteria to those outlined above. Elderly people with GH deficiency, in particular women, require less GH than at their earlier age, since they will be either spontaneously postmenopausal or taken off estrogen replacement. TRANSITION BETWEEN PEDIATRIC AND ADULT CARE FOR CHILDHOOD ONSET GH DEFICIENCY The transition from childhood into adulthood is generally a very vulnerable period in any young person’s life. It is therefore pertinent to make the transition as smooth as possible. The best way to do this is to have common transition clinics with both a pediatrician and adult endocrinologist having joint consultations to prepare the adolescent for what is going to happen. The timing can be somewhat individual but aiming at a time around final height and completion of puberty seems appropriate. The pediatrician should prepare the child for this/these consultation(s), and the adult endocrinologist taking over future follow up needs to be aware of the fact that obtaining final height and a post pubertal state does not mean that the adolescent is fully matured in a physiological as well as psychological sense. It is important to confirm persistence of GH deficiency at the time of completion of linear growth, particularly in children with isolated GH deficiency ( 18 ). In the presence of a structural lesion in childhood and multiple hormone deficiencies or some genetic causes, a low IGF-I (in the absence of poorly controlled diabetes, liver disease, or oral estrogen) is sufficient to confirm GH deficiency, without a stimulation test ( 19 ). Subsequently, decisions must be taken regarding recommencement of GH or longitudinal clinical observation off treatment. Arguments supporting continuation of GH therapy include the observation of increased accumulation of fat mass off treatment ( 204 , 205 ) and continued acquisition of bone mass in young adults continuing GH in contrast to static bone mass in those discontinuing treatment at the time of completion of linear growth ( 206 ). There is no detriment seen in QoL in those patients who withdraw from
