Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


bone mass in those discontinuing treatment at the time of completion of linear growth ( 206 ). There is no detriment seen in QoL in those patients who withdraw from GH at the completion of linear growth. There is an apparent improvement in insulin sensitivity but, as is the case during normal puberty, this may not be beneficial in the context of continuing somatic development. Given that the major indication for adult GH replacement is the impairment of QOL, then there is no clear consensus as to which patients should continue therapy seamlessly, virtually without interruption, and in which patients it may be reasonable to undertake a period of careful clinical assessment. A recent observational study has raised concern about discontinuation of GH replacement therapy in pediatrics in severely persistent GH deficiency patients, as well as about the often insufficient dose of GH in the treatment of adult patients ( 207 ). Follow-up showed improvement in lipid profile and bone mineral density in severely persistent GH deficiency patients under GH therapy. In multivariate analysis, the associated pituitary deficits seemed stronger determinant factors of metabolic and bone status than GH deficiency per se . A consensus meeting convened by The European Society for Pediatric Endocrinology suggested offering continuation of therapy (after retesting) and monitoring those who decline continuation of treatment. If therapy is continued the optimum dosing strategy has not been clearly defined although a titration approach as outlined above would seem empirically appropriate ( 208 ). The Endocrine Society Clinical practice guidelines recommend GH therapy to be continued after adult height to allow full skeletal and muscle maturation, which is often delayed in this population ( 18 , 19 ). INTERACTIONS WITH OTHER PITUITARY AND ADRENAL HORMONES GH is known to inhibit 11ßHSD-1, therefore favoring metabolism to inactive cortisone over active cortisol ( 72 ). Hence patients who are partially ACTH deficient or on suboptimal replacement should be carefully monitored at initiation of GH replacement, which might otherwise lead to partial cortisol deficiency, and risk of Addisonian crisis by even simple infections ( 118 , 209 ). GH also interacts with the TSH axis ( 120 , 123 ). Patients without defined TSH deficiency demonstrate a reduction in serum thyroxine (T4) after initiation of GH replacement, although maintain stable serum liothyronine (T3) ( 10 , 210 , 211 ), and patients on thyroxine replacement frequently require an increase in their
