Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


(T4) after initiation of GH replacement, although maintain stable serum liothyronine (T3) ( 10 , 210 , 211 ), and patients on thyroxine replacement frequently require an increase in their dose ( 120 , 121 , 212 ).The mechanism remains unclear, but it has been postulated that GH may enhance peripheral conversion of T4 to T3 but also have a central inhibitory effect on TSH release at least in children. Clinicians should therefore be aware that the hypothalamo-pituitary-thyroid axis can very easily be both underdiagnosed and under replaced in GH deficiency, and upon commencement of GH preplacement ( 120 , 121 , 213 ). Women require a higher GH dose than men to achieve a similar increment in IGF-I. GH sensitivity is blunted in females on oral estrogen ( 214 - 216 ). Transdermal estrogen reduces IGF-I generation to a lesser extent than oral estrogen. The effect of estrogen is thought to be mainly due to first pass metabolism inhibiting hepatic synthesis of IGF-I ( 217 , 218 ). Testosterone stimulates GH secretion centrally, and also amplifies GH stimulation of IGF-I ( 216 , 217 ). In addition to gonadal steroids, DHEA replacement has been shown to have an impact on IGF-I generation and psychological well-being ( 219 , 220 ). DHEA improves psychological well-being independently of an effect on IGF-I ( 229 ). DHEA has been shown to potentiate IGF-I generation ( 219 , 220 ) such that females on DHEA replacement require a lower GH dose to achieve the same IGF-I ( 219 , 221 ). The mechanism is unknown, but DHEA is metabolized to testosterone and it is postulated that increased serum testosterone may be responsible, hence explaining the lack of a DHEA effect in men who are either eugonadal or are on testosterone replacement. GROWTH HORMONE REPLACEMENT Selecting Patients for Growth Hormone Replacement The diagnosis of GH deficiency in adults is usually straightforward and consensus guidelines have been established with generalized acceptance ( Fig 8 ). Nonetheless there is continuing debate regarding the selection of patients for GH replacement. Practice varies between countries and is undoubtedly influenced by availability of funding for treatment. In clinical practice, patients are selected for treatment on the basis of perceived need according to one or more of a number of specific criteria as outlined in Tables 3 and 4 , including severe GH deficiency defined by the insulin tolerance test
