Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


need according to one or more of a number of specific criteria as outlined in Tables 3 and 4 , including severe GH deficiency defined by the insulin tolerance test (ITT), glucagon test or alternative tests such as arginine plus growth hormone releasing hormone (GHRH) or the Macimorellin test. Establishing the Maintenance GH Dose When the indication for GH-replacement has been ascertained, the patient is usually on a low initial dose (0.2 mg daily), but dependent on age, since adolescents during transition may benefit from higher initial doses, as will also women on estrogen therapy (replacement or oral contraceptives) a higher dose may be employed ( 214 , 222 - 224 ). The dose titration is monitored by IGF-I concentrations ( 12 , 154 , 158 ), and a number of end organ end responses, which may act as ‘biomarkers’ of the treatment effects ( table 6 ). The doses used in published studies vary widely and much of the published data in this area is derived from dosing schedules established on body weight or surface area criteria which were in effect an extrapolation of earlier pediatric practice. Ongoing assessment in the routine clinical setting has indicated that patients can now be managed on much lower doses ( 158 ). Using a widely accepted clinical strategy, patients are commenced on 0.2 mg somatotrophin subcutaneously once a day initially. The dose is reviewed every two to four weeks according to clinical response, serum IGF-I levels, and any side effects and the dose is increased, if necessary, at 4 weekly intervals until the maintenance level is achieved ( 225 ). This results in a median dose requirement of 0.4 mg daily with a greater sensitivity to a given dose in male patients so that median dose requirement is lower in men. Several sustained release long-acting GH preparations are currently undergoing clinical trials ( 226 - 230 ) and may become an alternative, with some now being marketed in Asia, US and Europe. However, long-term surveillance of safety and efficacy of long-acting GH analogs are not available to address potential pitfalls of the sustained release preparations ( 231 ). Serum IGF-I levels may be in the lower part of the age-related reference range in approximately 40% of patients with adult-onset hypopituitarism before any GH treatment across the total age range and this becomes more likely with advancing age. An empirical strategy is to
