Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


in approximately 40% of patients with adult-onset hypopituitarism before any GH treatment across the total age range and this becomes more likely with advancing age. An empirical strategy is to use the minimum dose of GH, which places the serum IGF-1 level between the median value and the upper limit of the age matched normal range for the individual patient. This approach minimizes the risk of overtreatment and the potential sequelae, which may ensue. Serum IGF binding protein-3 and acid-labile subunit lack sensitivity for the titration of GH replacement and are not recommended for this purpose. IGF-I, however, is regulated by several other factors than GH and changes in body composition can be seen with the addition of GH even without any alteration in the IGF-I level. For this reason other biomarkers of GH action are being sought ( 232 ). Table 6. What variables and organ functions should be followed in diagnosed GH deficient adult patients treated with GH replacement? View in own window Variables IGF-I (therapy monitoring, titrate to concentration between 0 and + 2SDS) Other pituitary hormone deficiencies MR/CT scan of pituitary in if abnormalities present Safety (adverse effect) QoL assessment (AGHDA) Metabolic variables Glucose metabolism Lipids BMI Body composition (waist-hip, fat mass, lean body mass) Dexa scan of bones Physical capacity Cardiovascular IGF-I: Insulin like Growth factor-I; MR: Magnetic Resonance; CT: Computer Tomography; QoL: Quality of Life; AGHDA: Adult growth hormone deficiency assessment: BMI: Body mass index Adverse Effects The main adverse effects directly attributable to GH replacement result from the correction of the sodium and water depletion present in GH deficiency patients. This manifests as arthralgia, myalgia, edema, and carpal tunnel syndrome and are usually rapidly reversible with GH dose reduction. They were predominantly a feature of the early experience when GH dose was determined by body weight rather than being based on a titration regimen commencing with a low starting dose as described above. Such adverse effects were predictably more frequent in male patients reflecting their greater sensitivity to GH. Benign intracranial hypertension is a recognized complication of GH replacement in pediatric practice but is much less likely in adult patients especially when low doses are used. However, persistent severe headache should prompt examination and investigation to exclude raised intracranial pressure. The potential mitogenic effects of IGF-I have raised concerns regarding a possible increased risk of either neoplasia or regrowth of residual pituitary and
