Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


and investigation to exclude raised intracranial pressure. The potential mitogenic effects of IGF-I have raised concerns regarding a possible increased risk of either neoplasia or regrowth of residual pituitary and peripituitary tumors. Extensive surveillance studies based on large multinational databases, including several thousand patients on GH replacement followed longitudinally, have not demonstrated an increased incidence of de novo neoplasia and prospective magnetic resonance imaging studies have not indicated an increased risk of pituitary or parasellar tumor regrowth ( 233 , 234 ). In the childhood cancer survivor study ( 235 ) there was no increased risk of recurrence over 5 years follow-up in those who received GH and on 15-year follow-up of patients with previous cranial irradiation who receive GH replacement there was no increased risk of malignancy ( 236 ). In addition, there has been no correlation between the serum IGF-I level within the normal reference range and risk of further malignancy ( 237 ). Mortality Definition of the precise relationship between GH deficiency and mortality must await long term observations of mortality rate in patients on GH replacement set against background mortality rates in the general population adjusted for national variations but a recent Dutch study provides some evidence that mortality is not increased by replacement and may play a role in normalizing it (particularly in men) ( 238 ). Fig 18. Mortality in hypopituitary patients with-/without GH replacement. From: Gaillard et al ( 26 ) The potential impact of GH replacement on the increased mortality rates described in hypopituitary patients can only be determined by long-term surveillance of treated patients in comparison with normal population data. The multinational databases designed to monitor safety of long-term GH replacement may provide useful information in this regard. Reassuringly, the mortality rates in the KIMS database were similar to the background populations ( fig 18 ), and a later large study in a much larger population with longer follow-up did not observe any increased mortality in GH treated GH deficient patients in the KIMS database ( 26 ). Danish nationwide studies have indicated that mortality was not increased in GH treated patients with childhood onset GH deficiency ( 239 , 240 ), but was highly dependent on the primary cause of GH deficiency ( 241 ), since the primary causes of childhood onset GH deficiency and concomitant diseases severely impaired socioeconomic conditions and impacted mortality; and only the subgroup of patients
