Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


GH deficiency ( 241 ), since the primary causes of childhood onset GH deficiency and concomitant diseases severely impaired socioeconomic conditions and impacted mortality; and only the subgroup of patients with idiopathic GH deficiency conditions was similar to the background population. In two Swedish publications there was evidence that hypocortisolism during acute stress, and de novo malignant brain tumors contributed to increased mortality ( 242 ), and GH deficient men receiving GH treatment had a mortality rate no different from the background population. In women, after exclusion of high-risk patients, mortality was not different from the background population except for CVD. Mortality due to malignancies was not elevated in adults receiving GH treatment. Next to gender, the heterogeneous etiology influences mortality in GH deficient adults with GH treatment ( 243 ). In the French SAGhE study mortality rates were increased in their population of adults treated as children with recombinant GH, particularly in those who had received the highest doses. Specific effects were detected in terms of death due to bone tumors or cerebral hemorrhage but not for all cancers. These results highlight the need for additional studies of long-term mortality and morbidity after GH treatment in childhood ( 244 ). Thus, the more recent studies have been reassuring concerning GH replacement and mortality, since those groups with higher mortality seem to have been limited to patient groups with a prior higher risk due to concomitant confounding mortality risks. COSTS VERSUS BENEFITS OF GH REPLACEMENT THERAPY Population studies in Sweden have documented a significantly greater medical and social burden for patients with established hypopituitarism. This continuing cost occurs irrespective of the initial cost of treating the pituitary pathology and derives from issues including unemployment, early retirement, depressive illness, and requirement for disability pension. A social circumstances analysis of the KIMS database has shown that approximately 11% of males and 31% of females require assistance with activities of daily living ( 245 ) ( fig 19 ). Additional treatment cost factors, which might be inferred from risk factor profiles in adult GH deficiency populations, include increased prevalence of ischemic heart disease and increased fracture rates. So, whilst the cost of GH replacement to the hypopituitary population is easily determined, matching this with data for economic benefit requires a quantification of long-term complications arising from surrogate markers for long-term morbidity observed in GH deficient patients. Assessments of the effectiveness of GH replacement
