Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency- Clinical Management
KEYWORDS: deficiency, hormone, growth, pubmed, growth hormone, patients, replacement, endocrinol, adults, adult, hormone deficiency, clin endocrinol, clin, pituitary, clinical


with data for economic benefit requires a quantification of long-term complications arising from surrogate markers for long-term morbidity observed in GH deficient patients. Assessments of the effectiveness of GH replacement over time is influenced by the changing characteristics of the patients, with lower doses of GH replacement being used and a shorter period of time from diagnosis of GH deficiency to treatment ( 181 ). This means that accurate assessments of cost benefit using long-term data is not yet possible, and probably never will be. A recent study based on patients enrolled into the KIMS database has demonstrated significant reductions in the numbers of patients requiring assistance with the activities of daily living, a decrease in medical consultations and a decrease in hospital in-patient stays over a period of 24 months of GH replacement ( fig 20 ). Fig 19. Activity of daily living in adult patient with GH deficiency before and after GH replacement therapy. From: Hernberg-Stahl et al ( 245 ) Fig 20. Sick leave and length of hospital stays in adult patients with GH deficiency before and after GH replacement therapy. From: Hernberg-Stahl et al ( 245 ). ADHERENCE TO MANAGEMENT OF ADULT GROWTH HORMONE DEFICIENCY IN CLINICAL PRACTICE Despite 30 years of evidence, guidelines, and clinical experience with adult GH deficiency and its management, a very recently published survey within the auspices of European Society of Endocrinology ( 246 ) has indicated that despite many guidelines on safety and efficacy of GH replacement in deficient patients as well as the above health economic considerations, GH replacement is still not available or reimbursed in all European countries. It also seems that both health care professionals and health administrators need improved knowledge to optimize the care of adults with GH deficiency. The publication results were further commented upon ( 247 ) indicating that in some health care communities reimbursement has been a major issue, because the discussion of GH replacement in truly GH deficient adults has been mixed with the discussion of utilizing GH therapy for sporting enhancement or for anti-ageing purposes, both of which are strongly discouraged. Also continuous presentations of unclear indications for GH diagnosis and replacement in small cohorts of mixed etiologies also pollute the field of health care discussions of proper clear cut cases of GH deficiency according to the official guidelines ( 248 ). REFERENCES 1. Cushing H. The Pituitary Body and its
