Emergencies in Childhood Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, children, dka, diabetes, glucose, hypoglycemia, fluid, serum, child, hyperglycemia, severe, rapid, new, hhs, management


INTRODUCTION Diabetes Mellitus, after asthma, is the second most common chronic condition in children. It can be diagnosed at any age and the incidence has been rising. Type 1 Diabetes (T1D) is by far the most common type of diabetes in children and its incidence has been increasing slowly but steadily. By definition T1D is an autoimmune condition caused by immune-mediated destruction of beta cells, with resultant development of pancreatic auto-antibodies (Type 1a). However, 10-15% of patients with a clinical phenotype of T1D do not have detectable antibodies and are classified as having Type 1b. Besides autoimmunity, beta cell loss can be caused by absence or loss of the pancreas, cystic fibrosis, and drug-induced diabetes. In these cases, the management of diabetes is very similar to the management of autoimmune T1D. Type 2 Diabetes (T2D) in children is characterized by progressive loss of beta cell function due to severe insulin resistance and often requires insulin therapy. The incidence of T2D has also been increasing in children, commensurate with the rise of obesity. Therefore, the key to treating most children with diabetes is replacement of insulin and most of the emergencies in children with diabetes are associated with either inadequate or excess insulin administration. NEW ONSET DIABETIC KETOACIDOSIS (DKA) Clinical Recognition The onset of T1D can be insidious because the immune-mediated loss of β-cells is typically slow, occurring over several months to years before hyperglycemia is manifest. The earliest signs of hyperglycemia begin with polyuria, followed shortly by polydipsia. A typical scenario in children is that of a few weeks’ history of increasing fatigue, intermittent polyuria and polydipsia, a recent viral illness and/or travel followed by exacerbation of these symptoms. If not recognized at this stage, hyperglycemia further impairs β-cell function and insulin secretion, which eventually leads to increasing lipolysis to provide free fatty acids as an alternative substrate for energy generation. Oxidation of free fatty acids leads to accumulation of acetoacetic and β-hydroxybutyric acids (ketones). When the level of ketones exceeds the child’s capacity to buffer the acidosis, the blood pH begins to decrease to below 7.3. In addition, the osmotic diuresis caused by the hyperglycemia leads to dehydration and lactic acidosis which further contributes to the acidosis and to increasing insulin resistance, all leading to a vicious cycle and rapid worsening in the hemodynamic status and development of severe DKA. The severity of DKA is divided into mild (pH
