Emergencies in Childhood Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, children, dka, diabetes, glucose, hypoglycemia, fluid, serum, child, hyperglycemia, severe, rapid, new, hhs, management


increasing insulin resistance, all leading to a vicious cycle and rapid worsening in the hemodynamic status and development of severe DKA. The severity of DKA is divided into mild (pH 7.2-7.3, or bicarbonate <15 mmol/L), moderate (pH 7.1-7.2, or bicarbonate <10 mmol/L), and severe (pH <7.1, or bicarbonate <5 mmol/L). The younger the child the faster the progression towards DKA, and the more severe the acidosis can be, with ensuing classic signs of dehydration, Kussmaul breathing, and potential obtundation and even coma. Diagnosis The diagnosis of new onset DKA relies on a high index of suspicion because most children presenting with new onset T1D have no family history of T1D. In addition, infants and toddlers may not have the classical series of symptoms that usually precede presentation with DKA and may present with non-specific symptoms such as increased irritability, difficulty sleeping, or poor feeding. Because the initial hyperglycemia can be exacerbated by a viral illness, these non-specific symptoms can be attributed to the viral illness and not to diabetes. Therefore, a careful review of the history of the illness and the presenting symptoms is essential for making the right diagnosis. Important clues include increased number of daily diapers or parental description of “heavy diapers especially in the morning”, the presence of diaper rash in infants or vaginal yeast infection in older girls, increased frequency of using the bathroom during school, nocturnal enuresis in a child who has already been trained, increased appetite yet continued weight loss, deterioration of performance in sports or school, and the presence of a sweet fruity smell from the child. Once suspected, new onset T1D is easily confirmed by obtaining a basic metabolic panel which includes glucose and bicarb measurements. A glucose level >200 mg/dl, with symptoms of hyperglycemia confirms the diagnosis of diabetes, while a lower than normal bicarb level suggests the presence of DKA, which can be confirmed by measuring urine or serum ketone levels. Treatment Once diagnosed, new onset DKA in children is best managed if possible, in a pediatric specialty center with expertise in treating children with DKA. This is due to the fact that a) fluid replacement in children must be calculated with greater precision based on body weight and surface area, and be provided in a manner that minimizes the risk of rapid shifting in osmolality between intra- and extracellular spaces, which can occur more easily in children because of
