Emergencies in Childhood Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, children, dka, diabetes, glucose, hypoglycemia, fluid, serum, child, hyperglycemia, severe, rapid, new, hhs, management


area, and be provided in a manner that minimizes the risk of rapid shifting in osmolality between intra- and extracellular spaces, which can occur more easily in children because of their relatively immature hemodynamic and cerebral autoregulatory processes. Rapid shifting of fluids can lead to cerebral edema, the most serious complication of DKA especially in younger children presenting with new onset T1D; b) children, especially pre-pubertal children, are far more sensitive to insulin, requiring much smaller doses than what is usually needed in adults; and c) even within the pediatric population, the approach to managing DKA in infants and toddlers is quite different than in older patients. Adolescents in peak puberty present a different challenge because of their often-severe resistance to insulin. For these and other reasons, we strongly recommend that children in DKA get transferred to a center with pediatric intensive care with the ability to provide close monitoring and management according to childhood specific treatment protocols. If initial stabilization of the child is required before transfer, it should be done in consultation with a pediatric intensivist and/or endocrinologist if possible. The first steps in the treatment of DKA are shown in Table 1 . Table 1. The First Steps in the Treatment of DKA View in own window 1. Determine current weight and height (or length) of the child, to calculate body surface area. 2. A careful physical examination looking for signs of infection, the presence of acanthosis nigricans, and assess the neurological status and degree of dehydration. 3. Initial blood sampling for laboratory measurements of electrolytes and glucose, BUN, creatinine, a blood gas, ketones, and a complete blood count. 4. Provide oxygen if needed. 5. Obtain samples for culturing if evidence of infection exists. Antibiotics should be considered if the child is febrile. 6. Establish peripheral intravenous access. Central line access is rarely needed FLUID REPLACEMENT All children presenting with DKA have some degree of dehydration, and must receive fluid replacement immediately. When thinking of fluid replacement, a few important principles should be kept in mind: a. Estimating total fluid deficit in a child with DKA can be difficult: High concentrations of glucose in the extracellular space pulls water out of the cells and the osmotic diuresis maintains a relatively large urine output even when severe fluid depletion has occurred. Therefore, intravascular volume and urinary volume are not good indicators of the degree of total fluid deficit.
