Emergencies in Childhood Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, children, dka, diabetes, glucose, hypoglycemia, fluid, serum, child, hyperglycemia, severe, rapid, new, hhs, management


maintains a relatively large urine output even when severe fluid depletion has occurred. Therefore, intravascular volume and urinary volume are not good indicators of the degree of total fluid deficit. A decreased urine excretion in the face of hyperglycemia is often a late sign of severe dehydration. Therefore, it is a good practice to start with an assumption of 10% dehydration in patients with severe DKA and 5-7% dehydration with moderate DKA. b. Serum sodium is often falsely low due to dilution of the extracellular fluid (ECF) caused by high glucose concentration in this compartment. Corrected, true sodium concentration can be calculated by adding 1.6 x current measured serum glucose – 100 to the measured serum sodium. Serum urea nitrogen and hematocrit levels are more reliable indicators of the status of the ECF and can be used for monitoring changes in the ECF after fluid replacement. c. While fluid repletion is essential, caution must be taken as to the speed of fluid administration. Rapid fluid infusion can result in rapid changes in the differential osmolality between the ECF and intracellular space, leading to a shift of water into the cells which is the main cause of cerebral edema. Naturally, when the peripheral circulation is compromised, resuscitation should be provided as quickly as possible using normal saline (or Ringer’s lactate solution). Once adequate circulation and tissue perfusion have been established, it is essential to slow down the rates of fluid replacement. Additional boluses of fluids should be given over 1-2 hours whenever possible. Subsequently, fluid administration for deficit replacement must be provided evenly over the next 48 hours, and should not include replacement of ongoing urinary losses. At this stage, normal saline can be used for the initial 6 hours, followed by half normal saline, with added potassium. d. Fluid administration will result in a significant decrease in glucose concentration. Once serum glucose has decreased to 250-300 mg, a glucose-containing solution (5-12.5% dextrose) can be added to the saline solution as part of the fluid replacement. This is aimed at slowing down the rate of decrease in serum osmolality and to provide sufficient substrate for administering insulin (see below). INSULIN A major component of the acidosis in DKA is caused by the accumulation of ketones which is the result of absent or insufficient insulin secretion or action. While rehydration improves the hyperglycemia and acid-base status, it is insufficient to correct the
