Emergencies in Childhood Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, children, dka, diabetes, glucose, hypoglycemia, fluid, serum, child, hyperglycemia, severe, rapid, new, hhs, management


the accumulation of ketones which is the result of absent or insufficient insulin secretion or action. While rehydration improves the hyperglycemia and acid-base status, it is insufficient to correct the pH back to normal. Insulin administration is essential for restarting glucose metabolism and halting fatty acid oxidation and further ketone production. Because children’s sensitivity to insulin varies markedly, starting with an intravenous insulin infusion provides the ability to titrate rapidly in response to changes in serum glucose, primarily to avoid hypoglycemia and relative rapid drops in serum glucose. Most children can start at a rate of 0.05-0.1 unit/kg/hour. Smaller children often require the lower end of this range; However, it is not surprising to occasionally see a toddler requiring up to 0.8 unit/kg/hour in the presence of a concomitant infection. Insulin infusion rates can be titrated down if serum glucose concentrations are decreasing, but only if acidosis is correcting and the anion gap is closing. If not, it is important to keep the insulin infusion rates higher and increase the glucose infusion rate to raise serum glucose above 200 mg/dL. Failure to provide adequate insulin delays normalization of the acid base status. POTASSIUM REPLACEMENT An important consideration is potassium (K) replacement. Most children presenting with new onset DKA have a relative depletion of intracellular potassium even if initial serum K is in the normal range. Once hydration is provided and insulin is started, K shifts from the ECF into the intracellular space resulting in hypokalemia and potential arrythmias. Thus, K should always be added into the fluids administered for the slow phase of rehydration. On the contrary, it has been established that administration of bicarbonate should not be routine, and in fact may be harmful to the CNS, except in extreme cases with severe acidosis (pH <6.9) and severe hypokalemia. LABORATORY MONITORING Initial laboratory monitoring should include a CBC, a chemistry panel (Na, K, Cl, bicarb, BUN, Creatinine, glucose, Ca, Phosphate, Mg), and a venous blood gas. The chemistry panel and blood gas should be done hourly initially, and can be reduced in frequency to every 2-4 hours after significant improvement in the clinical and the acid base status of the child. After complete resolution of the acidosis, laboratory monitoring can be less frequent, and should focus on serum K and phosphate. Assessment of serum glucose must continue at intervals of 3-4 hours and additional rapid acting insulin is provided
