Emergencies in Childhood Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, children, dka, diabetes, glucose, hypoglycemia, fluid, serum, child, hyperglycemia, severe, rapid, new, hhs, management


can be less frequent, and should focus on serum K and phosphate. Assessment of serum glucose must continue at intervals of 3-4 hours and additional rapid acting insulin is provided when serum glucose values exceed 200 mg/dl. Additional laboratory testing, which can be done after stabilization and resolution of the DKA, includes pancreatic auto-antibodies, thyroid function tests, serum total IgA level, and a tissue transglutaminase antibody measurement to screen for Celiac disease. Pancreatic auto-antibodies against the following 5 antigens should be included: Islet cells, GAD 65, Zn-T8, IA-2 (or ICA 512), and insulin. TSH and Free T4 should be done only after complete resolution of the acute phase of the illness and any concomitant infection to avoid falsely abnormal values. Follow-Up After recovery from the DKA and normalization of pH and anion gap, the child can be transitioned from intravenous to subcutaneous insulin administration. It is essential to recognize that subcutaneous insulin takes time to begin and reach peak action, which means that intravenous insulin should be continued for a few hours after the first injection of insulin. Ideally, iv insulin should be continued until 1-2 hours after the first injection of SQ rapid acting insulin (Aspart or Lispro), or 4 hours after the first injection of long acting insulin (Glargine or Detemir). Although it is obviously important to differentiate between children with new onset T1D and T2D because of the implications for long term therapy, the initial management of DKA in both populations should not be different. With increasing rates of obesity in children, more youth are presenting with T2D at younger ages. It is thought that children who develop T2D at a younger age do so because of more progressive beta cell failure than in adults. Thus, the initial DKA at presentation with T2D is physiologically and biochemically similar to DKA in new onset T1D, with the main targets of therapy being fluid and insulin replacement. Measuring pancreatic auto-antibodies and documentation of careful family history, will eventually aid in differentiating T1D from T2D, especially in children who are overweight or obese. RECURRENT DKA When DKA occurs in a child with an established diagnosis of diabetes, it is almost always due to insulin omission (for a variety of reasons), inadequate administration of insulin, or relative insulin insufficiency due to inadequate adjustment of insulin dosing in the context of conditions that cause temporary insulin resistance, such as generalized or localized
