Emergencies in Childhood Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, children, dka, diabetes, glucose, hypoglycemia, fluid, serum, child, hyperglycemia, severe, rapid, new, hhs, management


inadequate administration of insulin, or relative insulin insufficiency due to inadequate adjustment of insulin dosing in the context of conditions that cause temporary insulin resistance, such as generalized or localized infections. With wider use of insulin pumps, one of the most common causes of recurrent DKA, especially in young children, is unrecognized pump failure. Patients treated with an insulin pump receive only rapid acting insulin as a continuous infusion with superimposed boluses for meals and for correcting high blood glucose, without the use of long acting insulin. When pump failures occur, delivery of rapid acting insulin stops, and ketones can begin to accumulate within 2-4 hours. If unrecognized and uncorrected within this time frame, mild-moderate DKA can result, with varying degrees of symptomatology, from minor nausea and stomach ache, to vomiting, headache, and acidosis. Pump failures are often mechanical, ranging from a kinked or clogged catheter of the infusion set, to presence of air bubbles in the tubing (which can interrupt delivery of insulin for several hours, especially in small children), dislodging of the infusion set, or simply a spontaneous pump malfunction. Other common causes include use of ineffective insulin that has been degraded or contaminated, injection of insulin (by a pump or syringes) into a severely hypertrophied area, which interferes with insulin absorption, errors in programming the pump, and running out of insulin or battery in the pump, especially at night. Management of DKA in these cases is similar to new onset DKA, often associated with faster recovery and return to baseline once insulin administration is initiated. It is important in such cases to work with the child and family to identify and remedy the cause of the DKA. Whenever possible, the treating physician should communicate with the diabetes provider(s) to arrange for prompt follow up with emphasis on specific training to avoid recurrence in the future. Another common cause of recurrent DKA in adolescents is intentional insulin omission. Particular attention should be given to adolescents with history or evidence of eating disorders and recent weight loss, as they may be more sensitive to insulin than anticipated. Psychological evaluations and therapy should be arranged upon discharge of these patients. DKA WITHOUT HYPERGLYCEMIA IN T1D These cases are actually more challenging than those presenting with hyperglycemia, and are more prone to mismanagement. A typical scenario is that of a young child with T1D, who has not been eating well for
