Emergencies in Childhood Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, children, dka, diabetes, glucose, hypoglycemia, fluid, serum, child, hyperglycemia, severe, rapid, new, hhs, management


challenging than those presenting with hyperglycemia, and are more prone to mismanagement. A typical scenario is that of a young child with T1D, who has not been eating well for at least one day due to a gastro-intestinal infection with or without vomiting and diarrhea. In young children, a greater proportion of the daily insulin is given for carbohydrate consumption, up to 75% of total daily dose. Therefore, a child who is not eating even for one day will miss significant amounts of insulin and begin the process of lipolysis very quickly and become ketonemic. The lack of food consumption is associated with euglycemia. Fluid loss in euglycemic DKA is modest because of the absence of an osmotic diuresis. If fasting is prolonged with extended consumption of glycogen stores, hypoglycemia can develop, along with ketonemia and acidosis. A careful history review with the parents will clarify these scenarios and direct the management of DKA towards earlier start of intravenous glucose infusion and insulin administration to block further production of ketones. In these cases, even if the child is able to take some fluids orally, intestinal absorption is generally not optimal and should not be relied upon. With adequate intravenous hydration with intravenous or SQ insulin, the DKA can resolve fairly quickly. These scenarios are not limited to small children and can certainly occur in older children and even adolescents with poor oral intake due to a GI illness, prolonged fasting, or severe carbohydrate restriction. The management principles are similar and rely on providing glucose which in turn allows for more insulin dosing. The latter can be provided by intravenous infusion, SQ intermittent dosing, or even with an insulin pump if the child already has one, as long as there is adequate peripheral tissue perfusion to ensure appropriate absorption of insulin. An emerging cause of euglycemic DKA is the use of a new class of drugs, the SGLT-2 inhibitors. Although still rare in children, some older adolescents with T1D or T2D are prescribed SGLT-2 inhibitors, which primarily cause forced glucosuria, preventing a rise in blood glucose, even when insulin boluses for food are omitted. Management of these cases is similar to what is described above in this section, and patients should be counseled against use of SGLT-2 inhibitors without further consultation with a pediatric endocrinology team. One final note is in regard to patients who are using a continuous glucose monitor
