Emergencies in Childhood Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, children, dka, diabetes, glucose, hypoglycemia, fluid, serum, child, hyperglycemia, severe, rapid, new, hhs, management


be counseled against use of SGLT-2 inhibitors without further consultation with a pediatric endocrinology team. One final note is in regard to patients who are using a continuous glucose monitor (CGM). With significantly improved accuracy of CGM devices, more and more pediatric patients are using CGM, which can be used for treatment decisions. However, in the presence of moderate to severe dehydration and impaired tissue perfusion, CGM readings may not be accurate and should not be relied upon in an emergency setting. DKA IN PATIENTS WITH T2D As stated above, generally speaking, when children develop T2D at such a young age, they are likely to have lost significant endogenous beta cell function. Most children with T2D are either treated with metformin alone, insulin alone, or a combination. Those who require insulin have little endogenous insulin and can develop DKA in the same way children with T1D do, and their DKA should be treated in the same way. Children on metformin or metformin + insulin, may have some insulin secretion capacity, but do not have the ability to increase their insulin production at times of physiological stress which exacerbates their insulin resistance. Therefore, if they do present with DKA, this is an indication of relative insulin insufficiency and they should also be treated similarly to children with T1D. These scenarios include a special group labelled ketosis-prone T2D, who can be effectively treated with metformin alone, but have a tendency to develop DKA despite sufficient insulin production capacity at baseline conditions. Because of their general insulin resistance, children with T2D presenting with recurrent DKA generally have concomitant hyperglycemia and rarely present with DKA and euglycemia except when treated with SGLT-2 inhibitors as described above. A special group that is being recognized more often lately are children with monogenic diabetes, who can eventually progress towards partial insulin insufficiency and can present for the first time with either new onset or recurrent DKA. In particular, maturity onset diabetes of the young (MODY) type 1 and 3 are the most common. They usually have negative pancreatic auto-antibodies, their phenotype is not suggestive of insulin resistance, and there is a strong family history of non-type 1 diabetes in several generations. Once again, when presenting in DKA their management follows the same principles. HYPOGLYCEMIA Hypoglycemia is the most common acute complication of diabetes in children and represents the greatest challenge in managing children with diabetes. Surprisingly, the
