Emergencies in Childhood Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, children, dka, diabetes, glucose, hypoglycemia, fluid, serum, child, hyperglycemia, severe, rapid, new, hhs, management


their management follows the same principles. HYPOGLYCEMIA Hypoglycemia is the most common acute complication of diabetes in children and represents the greatest challenge in managing children with diabetes. Surprisingly, the definition of hypoglycemia in children remains controversial and somewhat nebulous, and varies for different ages. Clinical Recognition While in the general population, a blood glucose (BG) level of <70 mg/dL is considered low (hypoglycemia) and results in clinical symptoms, children with diabetes spend significant time with BG levels above 200 mg/dL, thus shifting upward the brain threshold for exhibiting signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia. Conversely, recent episodes of hypoglycemia can shift downward the threshold for exhibiting and recognizing hypoglycemia. Recent consensus statements from the American Diabetes Association (ADA) and the International Society for Pediatric and Adolescent Diabetes (ISPAD) have defined hypoglycemia in a child with diabetes as any BG level that results in symptoms or signs of impaired cognitive function. These hypoglycemic levels frequently change as the range of BG levels shift up or down over time, even within short periods of time. In the context of diabetes, any level of hypoglycemia (resulting in symptoms) can be considered an emergency because of the potential for the BG level to drop further within minutes. Therefore, any BG <70-80 mg/dL is generally considered a “hypoglycemia alert” and should be managed urgently. This is particularly true in children with diabetes because of their higher sensitivity to both insulin and physical activity, resulting in more rapid drops in BG levels. The current consensus is that a true emergency is considered a BG <54 mg/dL (3 mMol/L), a level that indicates a clinically important hypoglycemia that is likely to be associated with defective counter-regulatory response and impaired cognitive function. At these levels, a child is at a much higher risk for more severe cognitive impairment , with or without loss of consciousness or seizure, and requiring external assistance (severe hypoglycemia). Pathophysiology By far the most common cause of hypoglycemia in children with diabetes is excess insulin. Most children are treated with intensive insulin therapy with a basal/bolus regimen, by multiple daily injections or via an insulin pump. Boluses of rapid acting insulin are determined for each meal based on current BG value at the time before the meal and on the amount of carbohydrates (carbs) to be consumed in that meal. This requires fairly accurate carb counting, followed by entry of the estimated carbs and
