Emergencies in Childhood Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, children, dka, diabetes, glucose, hypoglycemia, fluid, serum, child, hyperglycemia, severe, rapid, new, hhs, management


before the meal and on the amount of carbohydrates (carbs) to be consumed in that meal. This requires fairly accurate carb counting, followed by entry of the estimated carbs and the BG number into a dose calculator, which can be a simple sliding scale hard copy sheet, a smart phone app, or a smart insulin pump. This process involves multiple steps, which naturally presents opportunities for estimation and transcription errors, leading sometimes to over-dosing of insulin. A common scenario, especially in young children, is refusal to eat or to finish a meal after a bolus had been given, or vomiting shortly after a meal. A history of repeated episodes of vomiting and/or repeated hypoglycemia after meals in an adolescent should alert the provider to the possibility of an eating disorder. The second frequent cause of hypoglycemia in children is exercise. Patients and caregivers are trained on adjusting insulin dosing to compensate for the enhanced sensitivity to insulin during and after any physical activity. These include lowering doses of long acting insulin or rapid acting insulin, lowering a bolus amount for the meal before or after exercise, or consuming extra carbs which are not dosed for. For patients on insulin pumps, a temporary basal rate reduction for several hours beginning before the activity is planned is often necessary. Omission of such adjustments can lead to hypoglycemia which can occur during or up to few hours after the exercise. Management Most hypoglycemic episodes in children should be managed in a timely manner, at the patient location, such as home, school, or sports fields, to avoid extended brain deprivation of glucose and prevent acute and long-term sequelae. Parents of children and persons with diabetes who are taking insulin or insulin secretagogues (sulfonylureas), should be trained to recognize the signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia and how to manage hypoglycemia. Once a child exhibits signs of hypoglycemia, treatment should be initiated after measuring the BG regardless of level. If the child is cooperative and able to take anything by mouth, simple and fast absorbing carbohydrates should be given. Examples include glucose tablets, clear juice, soda, regular sugar, cake frosting, and a variety of candies. In late adolescents, like in adults, 10-20 grams of carbs can be given to treat any hypoglycemia, and can be repeated 15 minutes later if needed. However, in smaller children, it is imperative to recognize that smaller amounts of carbs should
