Emergencies in Childhood Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, children, dka, diabetes, glucose, hypoglycemia, fluid, serum, child, hyperglycemia, severe, rapid, new, hhs, management


be given to treat any hypoglycemia, and can be repeated 15 minutes later if needed. However, in smaller children, it is imperative to recognize that smaller amounts of carbs should be used to prevent a rebound hyperglycemia. As little as 2-4 grams are often sufficient in toddlers to raise the BG 30-60 mg/dL. If a child is combative, unconscious, or seizing, oral treatment should not be attempted, as this carries the risk of aspiration or injury. Instead, glucagon should be given intramuscularly as soon as possible. For most children, a dose of 0.5 mg (half the amount provided in glucagon emergency kits) is effective in raising BG to >100 mg/dL, but up to 1.0 mg can be given to older adolescents. Although rare, a dose of glucagon can be repeated within 30 minutes if the BG level does not rise above 100 mg/dL. HYPERGLYCEMIC HYPEROSMOLAR STATES The hyperglycemic hyperosmolar state (HHS) is very rare in children, but is worth reviewing because of the associated high mortality rate, which approximates 20%. As the name indicates, HHS is characterized by severe hyperglycemia, hyperosmolarity, and dehydration in the absence of ketoacidosis. Treatment of HHS is directed at replacing the usually severe fluid deficit and slowly correcting the hyperglycemia, osmolality, and electrolyte disturbances with low-dose insulin infusion similar to treating DKA. Pathophysiology HHS is typically initiated by severe hyperglycemia caused by both relative insulin deficiency and elevation of counter regulatory hormones, which cause a decrease in peripheral glucose utilization and increase glucose production, respectively. The resulting severe hyperglycemia leads to polyuria and severe dehydration, with subsequent decrease in glomerular filtration and glucose clearance, which further exacerbates the hyperglycemia and hyperosmolality. The absence of ketones in HHS is attributed to the relative but not absolute deficiency of insulin, and the higher insulin to glucagon ratio than that in DKA. As in adults, HHS occurs in children with T2D, but it can also be the first presentation of new onset T1D, caused by use of beverages with high carbohydrates, such as regular soda or juice, to alleviate the accompanying polydipsia. Other common precipitating factors of HHS are infections, cystic fibrosis, and use of certain anti-psychotic medications. Diagnosis The progression of HHS is typically slower than DKA, resulting in delayed diagnosis and presentation with more severe hyperglycemia, dehydration, and altered mental status. Diagnostic criteria for HHS include a BG >600 mg/dL (33.3 mmol/L), absence of appreciable acidosis
