Emergencies in Childhood Diabetes
KEYWORDS: insulin, children, dka, diabetes, glucose, hypoglycemia, fluid, serum, child, hyperglycemia, severe, rapid, new, hhs, management


resulting in delayed diagnosis and presentation with more severe hyperglycemia, dehydration, and altered mental status. Diagnostic criteria for HHS include a BG >600 mg/dL (33.3 mmol/L), absence of appreciable acidosis (pH>7.30 and bicarb >15), anion gap <12, and an effective serum osmolality >320 mmol/kg. Recent consensus guideline recommended calculating the effective serum osmolality as [2 (serum Na)] + [glucose in mmol/L]. This is based on the fact that altered mental status is usually manifest at serum Na >160 mmol/L, or calculated effective serum osmolality >320 mmol/L. Treatment The main objectives of treating HHS are very similar to treating DKA: restoration of circulatory volume and tissue perfusion; correction of hyperglycemia and electrolyte imbalance; and identification and treatment of the precipitating event(s). Because HHS is rare in children, most published guidelines are based on experiences with adults. Therefore, practical management of HHS in children follow the same guidelines as for DKA, including estimation of fluid deficit, careful replacement of the deficit after initial management of shock if present, keeping in mind that fluid administration results in significant decrease in BG concentration and drop in serum osmolality. Once osmolality stops declining, insulin infusion can be started while fluid replacement continues, with the goal of maintaining BG at 250-300 mg/dL. GUIDELINES Wolfsdorf JI, Allgrove J, Craig ME, Edge J, Glaser N, Jain V, Lee WW, Mungai LN, Rosenbloom AL, Sperling MA, Hanas R. ISPAD Clinical Practice Consensus Guidelines 2014. Diabetic ketoacidosis and hyperglycemic hyperosmolar state. International Society for Pediatric and Adolescent Diabetes. Pediatr Diabetes. 2014 Sep; 15 Suppl 20:154–79. [ PubMed : 25041509 ] Jones TW. On behalf of the ISPAD hypoglycemia guidelines writing group. Defining relevant hypoglycemia measures in children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes. Pediatr Diabetes. 2018; 19 :354–355. [ PMC free article : PMC7217633 ] [ PubMed : 29082592 ] REFERENCES Gosmanov AR, Gosmanova EO, Kitabchi AE. Hyperglycemic Crises: Diabetic Ketoacidosis (DKA), And Hyperglycemic Hyperosmolar State (HHS). In: Feingold KR, Anawalt B, Boyce A, Chrousos G, Dungan K, Grossman A, Hershman JM, Kaltsas G, Koch C, Kopp P, Korbonits M, McLachlan R, Morley JE, New M, Perreault L, Purnell J, Rebar R, Singer F, Trence DL, Vinik A, Wilson DP, editors. Endotext [Internet]. South Dartmouth (MA): MDText.com, Inc.; 2000- 2018 May 17. Spanakis EK, Cryer PE, Davis SN. Hypoglycemia During Therapy of Diabetes. In: Feingold KR, Anawalt B, Boyce A, Chrousos G, Dungan K, Grossman A, Hershman JM, Kaltsas G,
