World Journal of
KEYWORDS: esophageal, lung, poem, myotomy, right, distal, patient, figure, adenocarcinoma, segmental, endoscopic, esophagus, stenosis, segment, muscle


individualized peroral endoscopic myotomy procedure for treating distal esophageal segmental spasm caused by muscular metastasis arising from lung adenocarcinoma, and this new technique can effectively improve a patient’s nutritional status before subsequent chemotherapy combined with immune checkpoint inhibitors. Citation: Shi H, Chen SY, Xie ZF, Lin LL, Jiang Y. Lung cancer metastasis-induced distal esophageal segmental spasm confirmed by individualized peroral endoscopic myotomy: A case report. World J Gastrointest Surg 2024; 16(10): 3321-3327 URL: DOI: INTRODUCTION Peroral endoscopic myotomy (POEM) has been widely performed as a standard treatment for achalasia; however, its efficacy and safety for treating distal esophageal segmental spasms due to cancer metastasis remain unknown. POEM, also known as one of the key branches of submucosal endoscopy, allows for a wide range of diagnostic or therapeutic interventions within the muscular layer of the gastrointestinal lumen. Here, we present a successful treatment for a patient with lung adenocarcinoma with esophageal muscle metastasis via individualized POEM followed by the addition of pembrolizumab to standard chemotherapy consisting of pemetrexed under the guidance of a multidisciplinary team (MDT), which led to long-term progression-free survival. CASE PRESENTATION Chief complaints and intermittent cough, with significant loss of body weight for two years that had worsened for one month. History of present illness upper lung mass and right pleural effusion. A right pleural puncture was performed, which confirmed lung adenocar- cinoma by pathology, with immunohistochemical staining showing positive expression of cytokeratin (CK) 7, carcinoem- bryonic antigen, and thyroid transcription factor-1 (TTF-1). PIK3CA mutations were detected via next-generation esophageal high-resolution manometry report, low resting pressure of the upper esophagus sphincter, normal pressure of the lower esophagus sphincter, and locally increased pressure in the middle and lower esophagus without normal peristalsis (Chicago classification II and III) (Figure 1). History of past illness The patient had been suffering from hypertension for several years. Personal and family history No family history was identified. Physical examination The Karnofsky Performance Status score remained above 90 throughout the treatment. Mild tenderness in the right chest was identified by palpation. Laboratory examinations Routine blood and biochemical examinations revealed no obvious abnormalities. The tumor biomarkers were generally normal or slightly elevated: Carcinoembryonic antigen = 5.42 ng/mL and neuron-specific enolase = 19.22 ng/mL. The serum albumin level changed from below 40 g/L pre-POEM to above 40 g/L post-POEM. WJGS 3322 October 27, 2024 Volume 16 Issue 10 Shi H et al. Esophageal malignant spasm treated by
