World Journal of
KEYWORDS: esophageal, lung, poem, myotomy, right, distal, patient, figure, adenocarcinoma, segmental, endoscopic, esophagus, stenosis, segment, muscle


level changed from below 40 g/L pre-POEM to above 40 g/L post-POEM. WJGS 3322 October 27, 2024 Volume 16 Issue 10 Shi H et al. Esophageal malignant spasm treated by POEM Figure 1 Esophageal high-resolution manometry report. A: Low resting pressure of the upper esophagus sphincter; B: Normal pressure of the lower esophagus sphincter; C: Locally increased pressure in the middle and lower esophagus without normal peristalsis (Chicago classification II and III). Imaging examinations lumen, segmental stenosis of the distal esophagus, and delayed emptying of barium contrast agent from the esophagus (Figure 2A). Endoscopy revealed a 2 cm long segment of concentric esophageal stenosis 35–37 cm away from the incisors, with apparently normal overlying mucosa (Figure 2B). The cardia had normal contraction and relaxation (Figure 2C). CT revealed a right upper lung mass (Figure 2D), abnormality of the right 9th and 10th ribs, enlargement of mediastinal lymph nodes, right pleural effusion, and thickening of the wall in the lower esophagus far from the lung space-occupying lesion. FINAL DIAGNOSIS The pretreatment diagnosis: (1) Right upper lung adenocarcinoma with multiple rib and mediastinal lymph node metastases and right malignant pleural effusion. The tumor was clinically staged as cT1bN0M1c, IVB; and (2) Distal esophageal segmental stenosis of unknown cause. The post-POEM diagnosis was confirmed as esophageal muscle metastasis arising from lung adenocarcinoma. TREATMENT After the first MDT discussion, an individualized POEM procedure (Video) was performed first to alleviate the patient’s dysphagia before chemotherapy. On July 14, 2022, under general anesthesia, a submucosal injection was performed first at the level of the middle esophagus, 5 cm proximal to the level of stenosis, rather than 13 cm proximal to the gastroeso- phageal junction (GEJ), as usual. After the submucosal space was entered, a longitudinal tunnel was created until the level of the stenosis was reached. Because it was difficult to dissect the submucosal space at the stenotic segment due to the inability to identify the right posterior wall of the muscular layer (Figure 2E), we had to perform inner circular myotomy of the esophagus to expand the tunnel space, beginning 3 cm distal to the mucosal entry. The circular muscle was thickened. Then, muscle biopsies were taken. Subsequently, myotomy at the narrow segment was performed, extending 2 cm distal to the stenosis segment (Figure 2F). The length of the entire myotomy was approximately 6 cm (33–39 cm away from the incisors) (Figure 2G). After myotomy,
