World Journal of
KEYWORDS: esophageal, lung, poem, myotomy, right, distal, patient, figure, adenocarcinoma, segmental, endoscopic, esophagus, stenosis, segment, muscle


extending 2 cm distal to the stenosis segment (Figure 2F). The length of the entire myotomy was approximately 6 cm (33–39 cm away from the incisors) (Figure 2G). After myotomy, the endoscope could be passed smoothly through the distal segment stenosis with minimal resistance. No perioperative adverse events occurred. Esophageal muscle biopsy pathology revealed poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma metastasis from lung adenocarcinoma, with immunohisto- chemical staining showing positive expression of CK, CK7, CK8/18, NapsinA, and TTF-1 (Figure 2H). After treatment, the patient’s Eckardt score changed from 9 before POEM to 3 after POEM. Repeated esophago- graphy indicated that the segmental stenosis had vanished and that barium flowed smoothly into the stomach on postoperative days 18 and 54 (Figure 2I), 203 and 745, respectively. Additionally, the esophageal mucosal folds were not interrupted or destroyed even on postoperative day 745 (Figure 3). The patient could eat soft solid food and received multiple rounds of pembrolizumab-combination chemotherapy. Pembrolizumab plus pemetrexed was selected as the chemotherapy regimen for 4 cycles, followed by metronomic oral vinorelbine for up to 14 cycles, resulting in a progression-free survival (PFS) of sixteen months. After the progression of pleural metastasis, docetaxel was given as an intravenous infusion for 4 cycles. OUTCOME AND FOLLOW-UP The patient’s progression-free survival was approximately 16 months. Long stable disease was obtained during the 24- WJGS 3323 October 27, 2024 Volume 16 Issue 10 Shi H et al. Esophageal malignant spasm treated by POEM Figure 2 Diagnosis and treatment of the patient. A: Esophagogram revealed grade I dilation of the esophageal lumen, segmental stenosis of the distal esophagus, and delayed emptying of barium contrast agent from the esophagus; B: Endoscopy revealed a 2-cm long segment of concentric esophageal stenosis with apparently normal overlying mucosa; C: The cardia had normal contraction and relaxation; D: Computed tomography revealed a right upper lung mass; E: Unclear hierarchy of the esophageal wall at the narrow segment; F: Myotomy at the narrow segment; G: The length of the entire myotomy was approximately 6 cm; H: Esophageal muscle biopsy result; I: Repeated esophagography on postoperative day 54. has been noted thus far. DISCUSSION To the best of our knowledge, this is the first and only case of lung adenocarcinoma with esophageal muscle metastases that presented with progressive dysphagia as the initial sign. Although poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the right upper lung was confirmed by pathology of the right pleural effusion, an accurate
