World Journal of
KEYWORDS: esophageal, lung, poem, myotomy, right, distal, patient, figure, adenocarcinoma, segmental, endoscopic, esophagus, stenosis, segment, muscle


metastases that presented with progressive dysphagia as the initial sign. Although poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the right upper lung was confirmed by pathology of the right pleural effusion, an accurate diagnosis of segmental concentric stenosis of the distal esophagus with intact mucosa and cardia could not be made via CT or endoscopy. To alleviate the patient’s dysphagia, an individualized POEM procedure was performed first formulated by the MDT team. During the process of establishing the esophageal submucosal tunnel, a muscle biopsy was taken from the right posterior wall of the muscular layer at the stenotic segment, revealing esophageal muscle metastasis from lung adenocarcinoma via pathology combined with immunohistochemical staining. The final diagnosis was adjusted accordingly. Metastatic esophageal tumors are relatively rare, and most metastatic esophageal tumors take the form of submucosal solid tumors in appearance under endoscopic ultrasound. The POEM[11-14] procedure, as first described in 2008, is a submucosal tunneling endoscopy technique that allows access to the muscle layers throughout the gastrointestinal tract. By cutting pathological muscle fibers, POEM can be treated not only for motility disorders of unknown cause but also for structural pathologies, such as esophageal diverticula. Regardless of the location, there are four steps to the procedure: Mucosal incision, submucosal tunneling, WJGS 3324 October 27, 2024 Volume 16 Issue 10 Shi H et al. Esophageal malignant spasm treated by POEM Figure 3 Post-peroral endoscopic myotomy esophagography. A: Continuous mucosal folds on postoperative day (POD) 203; B: Continuous mucosal folds on POD 745. myotomy, and entry closure. It is flexible in terms of the tunnel entry position, the length and depth of the myotomy. In our case, dissection of the inner circular muscle began at the narrow segment of the esophagus, extending 2 cm distal to the stenosis segment. The GEJ remained unchanged due to normal contraction and relaxation of the cardia. Overall, the location of the mucosal incision and the length and depth of the myotomy differed from those of traditional POEM prescribed by Inoue et al. No procedure-related complications occurred. Both the short-term and long-term outcomes of individualized POEM were excellent. As reported, needle tract seeding following endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) is a rare but serious complication that may lead to poor prognosis. To reduce the risk of tumor dissemination, EUS-FNA should be performed only when the results obtained via this procedure are useful for therapeutic decision-making. From a technical perspective, the procedure of our
