World Journal of
KEYWORDS: esophageal, lung, poem, myotomy, right, distal, patient, figure, adenocarcinoma, segmental, endoscopic, esophagus, stenosis, segment, muscle


the risk of tumor dissemination, EUS-FNA should be performed only when the results obtained via this procedure are useful for therapeutic decision-making. From a technical perspective, the procedure of our individualized POEM is more like an endoscopic unroofing technique for gastric gastrointestinal subepithelial tumors rather than EUS-FNA. Although tumor translocation caused by endoscopic unroofing gastric muscle biopsy has not yet been reported, the risk of tumor dissemination to the mucosal incision must be estimated. Fortunately, all post-POEM esophagography examinations revealed continuous mucosal folds. Obviously, for the palliative treatment of benign or malignant esophageal strictures, flexible self-expanding metal (SEMS) can effectively provide rapid relief of dysphagia. However, despite the specific characteristics of recently developed stents, recurrent dysphagia due to food impaction, tumoral and granulation tissue overgrowth, or stent migration remains a major challenge. In our case, the smooth mucosa at the stenotic segment was more likely to lead to stent migration in a short period because of insufficient friction between the SEMS and the esophageal wall. As reported previously, in patients with previously untreated metastatic non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) without epidermal growth factor receptor or alkaline mutations, the addition of pembrolizumab to standard chemotherapy consisting of pemetrexed-platinum resulted in significantly longer overall survival and progression-free survival than did chemotherapy alone. Pembrolizumab plus pemetrexed-platinum improved ovarian stimulation cycles and PFS, regardless of programmed cell death ligand-1 expression. Moreover, the metronomic formulation and safety of vinorelbine reduces the length of hospitalization. In our case, pembrolizumab plus pemetrexed was selected as the first-line regimen, followed by pembrolizumab plus oral vinorelbine. Arrieta et al described that the combination of pembrolizumab plus docetaxel was well tolerated and improved the objective response rate and PFS in patients with previously treated advanced NSCLC. Our patient received intravenous docetaxel to control tumor progression. CONCLUSION Here, we are the only one to report an individualized POEM procedure for treating distal esophageal segmental spasm WJGS 3325 October 27, 2024 Volume 16 Issue 10 Shi H et al. Esophageal malignant spasm treated by POEM induced by muscular metastasis arising from lung adenocarcinoma, and this new technique can effectively improve a patient’s nutritional status before subsequent chemotherapy combined with immune checkpoint inhibitors. FOOTNOTES Author contributions: Shi H, Chen SY and Xie ZF were responsible for the study concept and design, including endoscopic procedures; Chen SY drafted the manuscript; Chen SY and Shi H revised and finalized the manuscript; all authors conducted
