van Stigt et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2022) 22:152
KEYWORDS: milk, human, human milk, respiratory, infections, study, life, year, components, van, breastfeeding, cohort, allergic, utrecht, children


definitions 41.3–112.0 per 1000 children under one year of age were are used for allergic disease and different comparisons admitted to the hospital for RSV in Europe . This leads in duration of lactation . Since the composition of to about 28,000 infants requiring medical care for RSV breastfeeding is variable, it may well be that only some bronchiolitis in the Netherlands of which approxi- components in breastfeeding are protective against mately 2000 require hospitalization. Hospitalisation for allergic diseases and not breastfeeding itself . This respiratory tract infections not only leads to consider- hypothesis is supported by the findings of Lodge et al. able costs, but is also associated with recurrent wheeze, where groups of human milk oligosaccharide (HMOs) asthma and long term impaired lung function [8–11]. were associated with an increased or reduced change of allergic diseases development in infants . This sug- Breastfeeding protects against infections gests that breastfeeding contains protective components Breastfeeding clearly has several benefits for infants, such that may have immunomodulatory capacity. as the capacity to protect against the risk and impact of not receive exclusive breastfeeding are at a higher risk of Several components within human milk have been hospitalization in early life in relation to a wide range of linked to the risk of infection during the first year common infections . Exclusive breastfeeding until of infancy. Primarily, antibodies in human milk are the age of four months followed by partial breastfeeding acknowledged to play a pivotal role protecting infants is associated with both reduction in gastrointestinal and against various pathogens. Yet, it is still unclear which respiratory infections . Infants admitted to the antibody repertoire would be favourable and what the hospital with RSV infection are less likely to have been effect of antibodies is compared to other human milk breastfed . In addition, in a recent meta-analysis, components. Breakey et al. demonstrated that high one out of the eight risk factors for RSV-induced acute IgA antibody titres are linked to a reduction in infec- lower respiratory infection in children was “no breast- tious episodes whereas Mazur et al. described that feeding”, with an odds ratio of 2.24 (95% CI 1.56–3.20) RSV-specific maternal in breastfeeding IgG but not IgA . A similar protective effect of breastfeeding was antibodies are linked to reduction in the risk of RSV observed for other common respiratory pathogens like infections . Next to pathogen-specific antibod- influenza and
