van Stigt et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2022) 22:152
KEYWORDS: milk, human, human milk, respiratory, infections, study, life, year, components, van, breastfeeding, cohort, allergic, utrecht, children


protective effect of breastfeeding was antibodies are linked to reduction in the risk of RSV observed for other common respiratory pathogens like infections . Next to pathogen-specific antibod- influenza and invasive pneumococcal disease . ies human milk contains many more components with a A meta-analysis strongly favoured breastfeeding over protective capacity. For instance, Ramani et al. showed formula feeding to reduce the risk of gastrointestinal that higher concentrations of the HMO 2’-fucosyl- infections (i.e. 0.36 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.3 to lactose (2’-FL) was associated with symptomatic rota- 0.41)) . This finding was supported by another meta- viral infections whereas in another study the presence analysis that described a higher infant mortality due to of 2’-FL was associated with relative protection from diarrheal disease in children who were not exclusively respiratory infections . Addition of specific breastfed the first six months of life . prebiotic oligosaccharide mixtures to infant formulas The protective effect of breastfeeding on the develop- was shown to decrease the proportion of infections ment of allergic disease is less well pronounced com- and allergic diseases in children when compared to the pared to infectious diseases. In a meta-analysis it was standard infant formula [34–38]. In vitro data suggests that HMOs exert their effects through various mecha- Secondary objectives nisms. For instance, HMOs are known to influence interactions between immune cells (e.g. dendritic and • To identify which components, or combination of T cells), stimulate mucosal barrier and immune system components, in human milk are protective against maturation, modulate immune responses following the any parent-reported (medically attended) and physi- formation of antigen–antibody complexes, and may cian-reported infections during the first year of life. affect the immune response following the formation • To identify which components, or combination of of (endogenous) antibody-antigen complexes [39–44]. components, in human milk are protective against infant. Breatsfed children usually have a gut microbi- reported allergic diseases during the first year of life. ome dominated by Lactobacillus species and bifido- • To identify (within a subgroup) which routes are bacteria compared to infant formula fed children [45, involved in protection transferred from mother to 46] Moreover, Ramani et al. fund that LNT (Lacto-N- child (human milk, cord blood and amniotic fluid) tetraose) and 6’SL (6′-Sialyllactose) were both associ- and are protective against any parent-reported, phy- ated with Enterobacter and Klebsiella species . In sician-reported infections/allergic diseases during addition to pathogen-specific antibodies and HMOs, the
