van Stigt et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2022) 22:152
KEYWORDS: milk, human, human milk, respiratory, infections, study, life, year, components, van, breastfeeding, cohort, allergic, utrecht, children


(6′-Sialyllactose) were both associ- and are protective against any parent-reported, phy- ated with Enterobacter and Klebsiella species . In sician-reported infections/allergic diseases during addition to pathogen-specific antibodies and HMOs, the first year of life. human milk contains many more components, includ- • To examine the underlying mechanism of action of ing immune cells and extracellular vesicles (EVs) [47– the components that have been identified to be pro- 51]. Several miRNA detected in human milk EVs were tective against MARI, other infections and/or allergic immune-related miRNAs . Activated and memory diseases. T cells seem to be enriched in early human milk sam- ples and samples from infected mothers, T cells also seem to increase expression of immune proteins during Outcomes maternal infection . Primary clinical endpoint The number of parent-reported medically attended res- piratory infections during the first year of life. The PRIMA human milk cohort Despite decades of development and improvement of Secondary clinical endpoints infant formulas, formula fed children are still more susceptible to infections early in life . It is largely – The number of physician-reported medically unknown what impact the different human milk com- attended respiratory infections during the first year ponents have on immune development and how they of life. reduce the susceptibility to infections and allergic dis- – The number of other parent-reported infections dur- eases. Therefore, we initiated the PRIMA human milk ing the first year of life. cohort in which we will examine the components in – The number of parent-reported allergic diseases (e.g. human milk that may protect children from infections, in atopic dermatitis and egg/cow’s milk allergies) during particular respiratory infections, and allergic diseases. the first year of life. The added value of this cohort is its strong focus on – The number of other physician-reported infections infectious diseases and allergic disease combined with a during the first year of life. detailed immunological analyses of the samples on vari- – The number of physician-reported allergies during ous components (Additional file 2: supplemental proto- the first year of life. col). Added to that, we will collect prospective data with – The number of antibiotic courses during the first year longitudinal breastfeeding sampling in n 1000 children, of life = spread out over multiple winter seasons. General study design Methods In this prospective, observational cohort we will recruit Objectives a total of 1000 mother–child pairs during the first month Primary objective postpartum. The
