van Stigt et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2022) 22:152
KEYWORDS: milk, human, human milk, respiratory, infections, study, life, year, components, van, breastfeeding, cohort, allergic, utrecht, children


multiple winter seasons. General study design Methods In this prospective, observational cohort we will recruit Objectives a total of 1000 mother–child pairs during the first month Primary objective postpartum. The study population will consist of healthy To identify components in human milk associated with mothers and children in the Utrecht region, the Neth- decreased risk of parent-reported medically attended res- erlands, that already started breastfeeding. Human piratory tract infections (MARI) during the first year of milk samples will be collected at one week, one month, life in healthy term breastfed infants. three months and six months if possible (Fig. 1). These Fig. 1 Overview of sampling and timing of questionnaire: overview of timing sample collection and questionnaires sent to parents timepoints span colostrum/transitional milk sample the Diakonessenhuis hospital Utrecht (secondary centre). (within first week postpartum), early mature (one month Participants are recruited in two different ways. Mothers sample) and late mature samples (three and six months) that are admitted to the obstetric wards of either hospi- . During the first year of follow up, mothers will tals, will be informed by their midwives about the study. report their and their infant’s susceptibility to infectious Mothers are asked approval to share their contact details and allergic diseases by completing digital questionnaires with the researchers of the PRIMA cohort. Mothers that sent by email every two weeks until the child reaches one gave consent to share their contact details are contacted year of age. After the infant has reached the age of one consequently. year, their general practitioner will be contacted to col- Mothers that give birth in the primary care birth cen- and sputum cultures during the first year of life (Addi- a letter from their midwives at discharge. This letter con- tional file 1: Fig S1). In a nested subgroup (n 20), we will tains information about the study and the possibility to = collect additional samples of maternal blood, cord blood, opt out to be contacted by the researchers. 48 h after dis- amniotic fluid and neonatal saliva and neonatal faecal charge, researchers will receive only the contact details samples. This subgroup will be used as a pilot to study the of those parents that did not indicate objection to be effect of all different routes through which mothers may contacted. transfer immune active components. Mothers are screened by eligibility by the researchers The milk sample composition will be
