van Stigt et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2022) 22:152
KEYWORDS: milk, human, human milk, respiratory, infections, study, life, year, components, van, breastfeeding, cohort, allergic, utrecht, children


to be effect of all different routes through which mothers may contacted. transfer immune active components. Mothers are screened by eligibility by the researchers The milk sample composition will be linked to clinical during the first phone call. Additional information about data in order to identify the components or combina- the study will be provided and whenever parents are will- tion of components associated with medically attended ing to participate, they will be send the patient informa- respiratory infections, other infections and/or allergies. tion folder and the first house visit to collect milk and The human milk samples will be stored in the biobank informed consents are scheduled. facility of the UMC Utrecht for future research, securing Inclusion is performed within the first week postpar- quality of sample storage. The study recruitment started tum. An overview of inclusion criteria and study activi- in March 2019 and is still recruiting participants. The ties overview can be found in Table 1 and Additional expected end date of recruitment will be in June 2023. file 1: Fig. S1, respectively. Consequently the study will end one year later in June 2024. The study is registered in The Netherlands Trial Data collection Register (https:// www. trial regis ter. nl/) under protocol At inclusion, parents will fill out a baseline questionnaire number NL9056. to collect data on (Fig. 1): Study participants – Perinatal and pregnancy health characteristics. Participants are recruited at the obstetric wards of the – Family demographics. University Medical Centre Utrecht (tertiary centre) and – Health status parents. Table 1 Eligible criteria for the PRIMA human milk cohort Inclusion criteria Exclusion criteria Parents All mother–child pairs that live in a proximity to Utrecht Acquired or innate immune deficiencies Parents currently breastfeeding and intending to continue breastfeeding Insufficient control of the Dutch language until at least 3 months postpartum Infant Severe cardiac or pulmonary disorders or other severe organ diseases Severe prematurity defined as GA < 32 weeks – Vaccination status of the mother. for EV analysis, will be processed within 30 min after col- After inclusion, participants will receive a question- lection following the above mentioned protocol of Zonn- naire every 2 weeks collecting data about: eveld et al. . To ensure samples are processed within – Infectious episodes, allergic symptoms, feeding hab- 30 min, only participants that live in close proximity to its, day-care attendance and growth characteristics of the lab and that
