van Stigt et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2022) 22:152
KEYWORDS: milk, human, human milk, respiratory, infections, study, life, year, components, van, breastfeeding, cohort, allergic, utrecht, children


processed within – Infectious episodes, allergic symptoms, feeding hab- 30 min, only participants that live in close proximity to its, day-care attendance and growth characteristics of the lab and that had sufficient milk production form the infant. first week postpartum are selected for EV isolation. Study – Doctor visits, diagnoses made and medication pre- personnel is present at moment of milk collection and scribed to infant. transfer samples within 20 min at 37C6 to our laboratory. – Medication use and health status mother Total time of transport is recorded for each sample. – Any changes in demographics. Sample analysis At 6 and 12 months, an additional questionnaire will be The milk samples collected in this cohort will be ana- added to the 2-weekly questionnaire to record any aller- lysed for antibody and oligosaccharide composition gic disease manifestations (Fig. 1). This questionnaire is (fraction D, Additional file 2: Fig. S2). EV and T cell com- based on the EuroPrevall infant cohort questionnaires position will be analysed in subgroups. The HMO com- that were designed to investigate the prevalence of aller- position is determined by mass spectrometry (MS) based gies in the European population . At twelve months, approaches. Recent advances in Liquid chromatography the vaccination status of the infant, changes in household mass spectrometry (LC–MS) enables detection of a vast (e.g. number of children or pets) and more detailed infor- range of HMOs and to determine relative HMO con- mation about any hospital admission of the infant are centration . A recently published LC–MS assay has recorded (Fig. 1). shown to successfully detect semi-quantitively human milk tri-, tetra-, penta- and hexaoses in a single LC–MS Sample processing assay run. Samples are collected by participants at home, either by Next to HMOs, samples will be analysed for antibody hand or by breast pump. Within 24 h, study personnel composition using a bead-based multiplex assay. It has will collect the samples and will note time of expression, been previously shown that bead-based multiplex assays method of expression and whether milk was collected can reliably measure antibody titres against several path- before, during or after a feeding or whether it was a ogens in blood and are an effective means of assessing whole feeding sample collected. Participants will store immunity in a population [59–63]. After optimization, the milk samples in their own fridge until study person- we will use a bead-based multiplex to determine
