van Stigt et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2022) 22:152
KEYWORDS: milk, human, human milk, respiratory, infections, study, life, year, components, van, breastfeeding, cohort, allergic, utrecht, children


sample collected. Participants will store immunity in a population [59–63]. After optimization, the milk samples in their own fridge until study person- we will use a bead-based multiplex to determine patho- nel collects and transfers the samples on ice to the UMC gen specific antibodies, e.g. Severe acute respiratory syn- Utrecht laboratory. After milk expression, milk is stored drome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), Cytomegalovirus on ice or in the fridge until processing. We record what (CMV), Bordetella pertussis, pneumococcus, RSV and time the sample was expressed and whether it is a whole influenza-specific antibodies [59–62, 64]. Additionally, milk sample or milk collected only before or after a whole we will also use a bead-based multiplex assay to deter- feeding. Within 24-h after collection, samples will be mine the concentration of all human antibody isotypes processed according to the protocol of Zonneveld et al., and their subclasses [59–62]. Preliminary data showed using 600 times gravity instead of 3000 times gravity to that it is also feasible to use these assays in human milk preserve living cells (Additional file 2: Fig. S2) . After samples, though we will have to optimise these multiplex processing, milk supernatant and cream fractions will be assays further for the measurement of human milk anti- stored in cryotubes at – 80 °C. Fresh cell fractions will be body titres. used for T cell assays. Antibody and HMO composition is In a randomly selected subgroup, we will analyse T measured in milk supernatant. Samples that will be used cell profiles and functional skewing with flow cytometry as well as their transcriptome and T-cell receptor (TCR) successfully to different types of complex biological data repertoire using single-cell RNA/TCR- sequencing. and has been shown to have better accuracy than univariate methods and stable enough between datasets Statistical considerations . Finally, to validate our results we will use metrics We base our sample size calculation on the variation in such as area under the curve (AUC) and receiver oper- 2’-FL concentration, as this is one of the most abundant ating characteristic (ROC) curve to validate the HMOs present in human milk . The sample size of diagnostic prediction using the found signature. A similar 1000 participants has an 80% power to detect a ratio of approach can be followed regarding studying the relation ent-reported medically attended respiratory infection diseases during the first year of life (high frequency of using a two-sided two-sample
