van Stigt et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2022) 22:152
KEYWORDS: milk, human, human milk, respiratory, infections, study, life, year, components, van, breastfeeding, cohort, allergic, utrecht, children


a ratio of approach can be followed regarding studying the relation ent-reported medically attended respiratory infection diseases during the first year of life (high frequency of using a two-sided two-sample t-test, assuming that 10% allergy vs low frequency of allergy) and HMOs and anti- of the cohort participants have a parent-reported medi- bodies in human milk. cally attended respiratory infection (N 100) and that In case there is loss to follow-up because parents stop = the 2’-FL HMO concentration in the population has a to report symptoms, we will use the data retrieved from mean of 3 g/L, a standard deviation of 1 g/L, and a nor- the general practioner to estimate incidence of MARI. If mal distribution . The significance level (alpha) is this is not possible, we will impute the missing data using 0.05. The sample size was calculated using Power Analy- multiple imputation. We will impute missing data using sis for Sample Size (PASS) 2008. multiple imputation. The primary aim of this study is to identify components Discussion in human milk associated with decreased risk of parent- reported MARI. To this end we will analyse the associa- Respiratory infections are still a major cause of burden tion between 2’FL concentration and the MARI during of disease and child death, RSV being the most common the first year of life using regression analysis. The possible found pathogen . In 2015, the worldwide death association between 2’-FL concentrations and the num- of 118,200 children under five years of age were attrib- ber of parent-reported medically attended respiratory uted to RSV . Protection from respiratory infections infections during the first year of life will be determined will not only lead to a reduction in childhood mortality using multivariable Poisson regression analysis, adjust- or other complications, but protection from viral infec- ing for potential confounders. Potential confounders will tions is also associated with reduction of other diseases, be identified by a literature search, complemented by like recurrent wheeze during first year of life and even expert knowledge. We will analyze whether the moment asthma . Infants can be protected by vaccina- of maternal atopy, birth month, duration of lactation tions either given early after birth or by maternal vacci- postpartum, season, socio-economic status and ethnicity nation during pregnancy . These vaccinations elicit a modify the effect of HMOs on the number of respiratory pathogen-specific immune response, offering protection infections. to these
