van Stigt et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2022) 22:152
KEYWORDS: milk, human, human milk, respiratory, infections, study, life, year, components, van, breastfeeding, cohort, allergic, utrecht, children


socio-economic status and ethnicity nation during pregnancy . These vaccinations elicit a modify the effect of HMOs on the number of respiratory pathogen-specific immune response, offering protection infections. to these specific pathogen only . Currently, no effec- ship between HMOs (other than 2’FL) or antibodies and protect from RSV infections. An important and validated MARI in a similar fashion as 2’FL using regression analy- strategy to reduce the number of respiratory infections is sis and Poisson analysis. breastfeeding . Despite all efforts taken, still, the For the secondary analysis, the statistical analysis plan number of children being exclusively breastfed for six will be based on the cohort of 1000 mother child pairs, months remains low in some regions. In 2006–2012, only providing milk samples as well as consecutive question- an estimated 25% of infants in the World Health Organi- naire data related to parent-reported medically attended sation (WHO) European Region were exclusively breast- respiratory infection (MARI). Based on the parent fed for the first 6 months, which is far below the WHO reported respiratory tract infection symptoms, the num- recommendation of 6 months exclusive followed partial ber infectious episodes during the first year of life will be breastfeeding until the age of two. defined and separates the cohort into two groups (high Understanding the composition of breast milk in rela- frequency of infection vs low frequency of infection). We tion to disease susceptibility in early life will guide the will analyze the relationship between HMOs and anti- development of much needed interventions for infants bodies and MARI with a machine-learning based multi- that cannot be exclusively breast fed. At the present variate analysis. We will use recursive ensemble feature moment, there is a lack in knowledge about the specific selection (REFS) algorithm to reduce the variables components or combination of components present in to the minimum necessary set to differentiate between human milk that support the protective capacity against the two groups (signature). REFS has been applied infections. In order to be able to improve safety and efficacy of infant formulas, it first has to be established Netherlands. Debbie van Baarle; Center for Translational Immunology, Univer‑ which components including their underlying mecha- The PRIMA human milk cohort is designed to study laboration. The PRIMA human milk cohort will be one of Bilthoven, The Netherlands. Elisabeth AM Sanders; Center for Translational the largest cohorts combining both longitudinal human Utrecht, Utrecht, The
