van Stigt et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2022) 22:152
KEYWORDS: milk, human, human milk, respiratory, infections, study, life, year, components, van, breastfeeding, cohort, allergic, utrecht, children


study laboration. The PRIMA human milk cohort will be one of Bilthoven, The Netherlands. Elisabeth AM Sanders; Center for Translational the largest cohorts combining both longitudinal human Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.Saskia A Overbeek; Global Centre of Excel‑ entific understanding regarding the protective effect and lence Immunology, Danone Nutricia Research B.V., Utrecht, Netherlands. Laura influence of specific human milk derived components on AMP Meulenbroek; Global Centre of Excellence Immunology, Danone Nutricia the protection against respiratory infections and allergies Research B.V., Utrecht, Netherlands. Bernd Stahl; Division of Pharmacology, early in life. Data and samples from this cohort will be used to study the underlying mechanism of several com- Danone Nutricia Research B.V., Utrecht, Netherlands. Global Centre of Excel‑ ponents in human milk which might lead to the develop- lence Human Milk Research and Analytical Sciences, Danone Nutricia Research B.V., Utrecht, Netherlands. Aletta D Kraneveld; Division of Pharmacology, ment of new concepts/hypotheses for the management of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Diakonessenhuis, Utrecht, the Netherlands. Abbreviations senhuis, Utrecht, the Netherlands. Butsabong Lerkvaleekul; Center for Transla‑ EV: Extracellular vesicle; RSV: Respiratory syncytial virus; IFV: Influenza virus; PIV: Parainfluenza; MPV: Human metapneumovirus; CI: Confidence interval; Eline Voogd, Global Centre of Excellence Human Milk Research and Analytical HMO(S): Human milk oligosaccharide(s); IgA: Immunoglobulin A; IgG: Immu‑ Sciences, Danone Nutricia Research B.V., Utrecht, Netherlands. Christianne noglobulin G; 2’FL: 2’‑Fucosyllactose; MARI: Medically attended respiratory infection; MS: Mass spectrometry; LC–MS: Liquid chromatography mass spectrometry; SARS‑CoV‑2: Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2; Netherlands. Tariq A. Lalmahomed; Center for Translational Immunology, CMV: Cytomegalovirus; TCR : T‑cell receptor; PASS: Power analysis for sample size; WHO: World Health Organisation; GA: Gestational age. erlands. Daphne M. M. van Meerwijk; Center for Translational Immunology, The online version contains supplementary material available at https:// doi. Utrecht, Netherlands. org/ 10. 1186/ s12879‑ 022‑ 07107‑w. Authors’ contributions Additional file 1: Figure S1. Study activities overview: overview of all AvS, KOR and LB wrote the manuscript. LB, JL and BvL supervised and initi‑ study activities. Figure S2. Sample processing in PRIMA human milk ated the project. KB and WdW supported resources for recruitment of study cohort: A) Human milk samples are centrifuged for 10 min at 600 g in participants. AvS, SP, TL, FvW, MN, AH, CL, GdH, MvH, JG, LK, LV, CdT, AL, JL, BvL order to remove the cream (layer on top, indicated in yellow) and cells and LB were involved in setting up the methodology of the trial.
