van Stigt et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2022) 22:152
KEYWORDS: milk, human, human milk, respiratory, infections, study, life, year, components, van, breastfeeding, cohort, allergic, utrecht, children


LV, CdT, AL, JL, BvL order to remove the cream (layer on top, indicated in yellow) and cells and LB were involved in setting up the methodology of the trial. AvS and MN (collected in pellet on the bottom, indicated in dark grey). B) Milk super‑ performed validation experiments. All authors were involved in the revision of natant is collected by pipetting through cream layer without disturbing the manuscript. All authors read and approved the final manuscript. the cell pellet and subsequently transferred into a new tube. C) Collected 600 g supernatant is again centrifuged for another 10 min at 600 g. D) Funding Milk supernatant is collected by pipetting through the residual cream and This research was supported by Regio Deal Foodvalley (grant nr 162135), the transferred to and aliquoted into clean cryotubes, and stored at ‑80 °C WKZ research fund‑Nutricia call 2020 “Breast milk T cells: frontline protection until further analysis. E) The cream layer is removed without disturbing the for infants and mothers?” and from Danone Nutricia Research BV as part of cellular pellet and transferred into cryotubes stored at ‑80 °C for further a UMC Utrecht‑Danone Nutricia Research BV collaboration grant “Early Life analysis. F) 20 mL PBS is added to rinse and cells are spun at 600 g for Nutrition and Immune Development” (Ministerie van Volksgezondheid, Welzijn 10 min, after which the supernatant is discarded and cells are kept on en Sport, Universitair Medisch Centrum Utrecht, Danone Nutricia Research ice until further processing for analysis G). Milk EVs are processed further BV). The funders had no role in the study design, in the collection, analysis and according to the Zonneveld protocol at 3000 g. interpretation of data. The funders had no role in the final decisions on the interpretation and dissemination of the results. Additional file 2. PRIMA research protocol METC Utrecht version 4A: this file contains the protocol including the novel additions for collection of Availability of data and materials dietary information from mother. As the current manuscript describes the study protocol and no other data, we do not have any raw data to share at the moment. Acknowledgements The following respondents of the PRIMA Initiative Group opted to have their Declarations name acknowledged: André C. Knulst; Department of Dermatology/Allergol‑ avd/20/500151, protocol ID: 20‑578/X‑D). All participating parents gave writ‑ against respiratory syncytial virus infection in The Netherlands. Vaccine. ten consent to participate in this
