REVIEW
KEYWORDS: fields, striatum, corynebacterium, infections, corynebacterium striatum, patients, infection, mesh, terms, antibiotic, treatment, invasive, mesh terms, reported, infect


Antimicrobial treatment of Corynebacterium striatum invasive infections: a systematic review Milos N. Milosavljevic 1, Jovana Z. Milosavljevic 2, Aleksandar G. Kocovic3, Srdjan M. Stefanovic3, Slobodan M. Jankovic1, Miralem Djesevic4, Milica N. Milentijevic5 ABSTRACT The aim of this study was to establish an evidence-based guideline for the antibiotic treatment of Corynebacterium striatum infections. Several electronic databases were systematically gender with systemic inflammatory response syndrome, harboring C. striatum isolated from body fluids or tissues in which it is not normally present. C. striatum had to be identified as the only causative agent of the invasive infection, and its isolation from blood, body fluids or tissues had to be confirmed by one of the more advanced diagnostic methods (biochemical methods, mass spectrometry and/or gene sequencing). This systematic review included 42 studies that analyzed 85 individual cases with various invasive infections caused by C. striatum. More than one isolate of C. striatum exhibited 100% susceptibility to vancomycin, linezolid, teicoplanin, piperacillin-tazobactam, amoxicillin-clavulanate and cefuroxime. On the other hand, some strains of this bacterium showed a high degree of resistance to 1University of Kragujevac, Faculty of Medical fluoroquinolones, to the majority majority of β-lactams, aminoglycosides, macrolides, and toxicology, Kragujevac, Serbia lincosamides and cotrimoxazole. Despite the antibiotic treatment, fatal outcomes were reported in almost 20% of the patients included in this study. Gene sequencing methods should be the 2University of Kragujevac, Faculty of gold standard for the identification of C. striatum, while MALDI-TOF and the Vitek system can be used as alternative methods. Vancomycin should be used as the antibiotic of choice for Kragujevac, Serbia the treatment of C. striatum infections, in monotherapy or in combination with piperacillin- 3University of Kragujevac, Faculty of Medical tazobactam. Alternatively, linezolid, teicoplanin or daptomycin may be used in severe infections, while amoxicillin-clavulanate may be used to treat mild infections caused by C. striatum. Kragujevac, Serbia 4Private Policlinic Center Eurofar Sarajevo, KEYWORDS: Corynebacterium striatum. Invasive infection. Antibiotic treatment. and Herzegovina Serbia INTRODUCTION Correspondence to: Jovana Z. Corynebacterium striatum is a non-diphtheric gram-positive, aerobic and Milosavljevic facultative anaerobic, non-sporulating and immobile bacillus1,2. Although this Svetozara Markovica 69, 34000 Kragujevac, large number of different invasive infections caused by this species have been Serbia reported in the last two decades3. C. striatum causes serious infections primarily Tel: +38 1669178800 in immunocompromised patients, such as those in the terminal stage of cancer E-mail: and presenting with other critical conditions4. In addition, invasive diagnostic and therapeutic procedures,
