REVIEW
KEYWORDS: fields, striatum, corynebacterium, infections, corynebacterium striatum, patients, infection, mesh, terms, antibiotic, treatment, invasive, mesh terms, reported, infect


The final analysis covered a total of 42 studies after a certain period of time, were not considered as 85 individual cases that met the inclusion criteria and did postoperative infections. not present exclusion criteria. The median age of the subject Infections on artificial materials (grafts) were considered with the reported C. striatum invasive infection was 65 if C. striatum was detected from the sample taken from (IQR 51, 72), with the oldest being 88 years old, while the the graft itself (central venous catheter, artificial valve, youngest was 13 years old. About two/thirds of the cases etc.) or from an adjacent tissue. The extraction of data was were males (57/67.1%), 27 cases (31.8%) were females, performed independently by each investigator. while in 1 case (1.2%) the gender of the patient was not For each study included (according to their design), reported. The presence of hypertension was reported in all authors assessed four types of bias (i.e. selection, 15 patients (17.6%), 14 patients (16.5%) had diabetes, while information, attrition and outcome reporting bias) various types of cancers were reported in 13 cases (15.3%). separately and independently, and in case of disagreement, C. striatum caused postoperative infections (infections the final decision was made by the senior investigator (SJ). after invasive diagnostic and therapeutic procedures) in In addition, the uniformity of the tabular presentation of the 24 patients (28.2%). On the other hand, the causal role of included studies according to their distribution in different C. striatum for infections of previously embedded artificial regions of the world in which they were conducted, was implants, such as orthopedic prostheses, artificial valves, assessed. etc., was reported in 19 patients (22.3%). This systematic The continuous variables (categorical) measured in this review article included patients with C. striatum invasive analysis were: total study duration, total number of patients, infection from European (n=48), Asian (n=17), North age of patients, maximal level of CRP, PCT and WBC during American (n=16), South American (n=3) and African the infection and duration of antibiotic therapy, while the continents (n=1). Most of the cases were reported from gender of patients, presence of hypertension, diabetes or Spain (17/20%), followed by USA (15/17.6%), India malignancy, postoperative infection, infections on embedded (13/15.3%), France (12/14.1%), Italy (10/11.8%) and artificial materials, site of C. striatum isolation, sampling England (4/4.7%). Korea, Japan and Brazil reported two method, method of C. striatum identification, morphological patients each with invasive infections
