REVIEW
KEYWORDS: fields, striatum, corynebacterium, infections, corynebacterium striatum, patients, infection, mesh, terms, antibiotic, treatment, invasive, mesh terms, reported, infect


(10/11.8%) and artificial materials, site of C. striatum isolation, sampling England (4/4.7%). Korea, Japan and Brazil reported two method, method of C. striatum identification, morphological patients each with invasive infections caused by C. striatum diagnoses that confirmed the invasive infections, presence of (2/2.3%), while Morocco, Colombia, Greece, Northern parameters, antibiotic regimen used, outcomes of antibiotic only one case each (1.2%). The geographical distribution of treatment (cure rate and mortality), adverse events rate and included cases is presented in Figure 2. All patients involved type, sensitivity and resistance to antibiotics. were managed exclusively in hospitals. The longest follow- Each individual patient from the articles included in this up last about 14 months24. In five of six case series included, review was considered as the unit of analysis. the attrition bias was evaluated as low, while in one study5, The authors tried to reduce the percentage of missing we estimated it to be medium, because the authors reported data by searching them getting in contact with the two lost-to-follow-up patients. Overview of the individual researchers who conducted the original researches or cases, as well as an assessment of the risk of bias in each by searching for data within the Results category in the study included are shown in Supplementary Table S1. ClinicalTrial.gov database. Within the Discussion section, the impact of missing data on the final results and possible Site and method of isolation of Corynebacterium conclusions was discussed. The heterogeneity evaluation striatum could not be applied to this type of systematic review. Basic methods of descriptive statistics (median and The presence of C. striatum was the most commonly interquartile range for continuous variables and numbers confirmed in blood samples (24/28.2%), followed by Antimicrobial treatment of Corynebacterium striatum invasive infections IV catheter, lung biopsy, excised necrotic breast tissues, skin lesion biopsy, drainage of abscess and chest drainage. C. striatum as a cause of infection was most often identified exclusively by biochemical methods (37/43.5%), while additional confirmation using 16S rRNA gene sequencing was carried out in 7 (8.2%) cases. On the other hand, mass spectrometry (in the vast majority of cases through the MALDI-TOF system) as a single method was used to identify C. striatum in 17 patients (20%), while the causative agent was identified by a combination of biochemical methods and MALDI-TOF in 12 patients (14.1%). 16S rRNA sequencing was the only method for identification of C. striatum in 9 patients (10.6%),
