REVIEW
KEYWORDS: fields, striatum, corynebacterium, infections, corynebacterium striatum, patients, infection, mesh, terms, antibiotic, treatment, invasive, mesh terms, reported, infect


for patients with susC. isol.), tetracycline (18 vs. 3 susC. isol., cotrimoxazole endocarditis, in whom a cutaneous rash occurred during (16 vs. 4 susC. isol.), ciprofloxacin (20 vs. 5 susC. isol) and the administration of ampicillin and gentamicin, leading particularly to clindamycin (34 vs. 1 susC. isol). to the replacement of this combination of antibiotics by vancomycin. Antibiotic treatment of C. striatum infections Treatment outcomes Antibiotics used for treatment of invasive infections caused by C. striatum were reported in 83 patients (97.6%). More than half of the patients (62.3%) experienced a Treatment of C. striatum invasive infections in a slightly complete recovery after the antibiotic treatment, while in higher number of patients (44/53%) was composed of a 12 patients (14.1%) a relevant clinical improvement was Antimicrobial treatment of Corynebacterium striatum invasive infections vast majority of β-lactams, aminoglycosides, macrolides, lincosamides and cotrimoxazole. Despite the use of antibiotics, fatal outcome was reported in almost 20% of the patients included in this study. As a normal resident of the human skin and mucous membranes C. striatum is rarely a pathogenic microorganism. However, it seems that C. striatum has a particularly large pathogenic potential among non-diphtheritic bacteria from the genus Corynebacterium4. Microbiological in vitro studies have shown that the ability to form a biofilm on different abiotic surfaces stands out as the most significant virulence factor possessed by this bacterium50,51. C. striatum forms colonies equally efficiently on both, hydrophobic and hydrophilic surfaces, including polystyrene ureters. It could be expected that the C. striatum potential for biofilm formation is even higher in vivo due to the stimulatory effect of fibrinogen52. Biofilm makes bacteria more resistant to the action of immune system cells and antibiotics, which explains the growing number of bloodstream and catheter-related infections caused by C. striatum50,51. Microbial biofilms play a key role in the pathogenesis of endocarditis53, which may explain the fact that this review includes as many as 10 reports of endocarditis caused by C. striatum12,20,21,24-27,29,42,43. We also analyzed more than 10 cases with C. striatum prosthetitis, catheter-related infections and similar infections on embedded artificial devices and materials2,5,9,19,22,30, which are most likely Figure 4 - Antibiotics used for the treatment of C. striatum infections. a consequence of the aforementioned virulence factor available to this bacterium. reported after the administration of the antibiotic therapy. When it comes to the diagnostic method for identifying Death was reported in 15 patients (17.6%), while failure of
