REVIEW
KEYWORDS: fields, striatum, corynebacterium, infections, corynebacterium striatum, patients, infection, mesh, terms, antibiotic, treatment, invasive, mesh terms, reported, infect


to this bacterium. reported after the administration of the antibiotic therapy. When it comes to the diagnostic method for identifying Death was reported in 15 patients (17.6%), while failure of C. striatum, at least several examples of misidentification the antibiotic therapy resulted in recurrence, superinfection of this bacterium using biochemical methods have been and limb amputation, reported in three patients (3.5%) with reported in the literature. A particularly interesting case not reported in two patients (2.3%). Messina, Italy45. At the beginning of 2006, in eight patients with symptoms of severe infection, the causative agent DISCUSSION was initially misidentified as Kocuria kristinae using the conventional Vitek 2 system (bioMérieux, Marcy of C. striatum as a cause of various serious infections samples (7 bronchial aspirates from 5 patients, 5 sets of both in immunocompromised and immune competent blood cultures from two patients and one sample from a inpatients. C. striatum was isolated from different types central venous catheter) were tested and the probability of of biological and artificial samples and more frequently identification was extremely high, of 99.9%. However, 16S identified by specific biochemical tests in slightly more rRNA sequencing was subsequently performed and all the than 43% of the total number of patients. This bacterial 13 isolates were identified as C. striatum. The results of species was also recovered from different infection sites, several studies54-56 indicate that gene sequencing methods depending on the infected tissue. More than one isolate of are the most reliable for identifying C. striatum and should C. striatum exhibited 100% susceptibility to vancomycin, be the gold standard for the identification of this bacterium. linezolid, teicoplanin, piperacillin-tazobactam, amoxicillin- MALDI-TOF is a slightly less accurate method than 16S clavulanate and cefuroxime, while strains of this bacterium rRNA sequencing, but due to its cost-efficiency, simplicity showed a high degree of resistance to fluoroquinolones, the and sufficient reliability, it can be used as an alternative Milosavljevic et al. method for the identification of C. striatum54,55. Although in elderly patients and in those with significant level of cases of misdiagnosis of C. striatum using the VITEK 2 immunosuppression, but also in immunocompetent hosts it could be considered that this method of identification of sequencing techniques, but the MALDI-TOF and Vitek 2 C. striatum is reliable after the inclusion of this pathogen system can also be used with significant reliability, especially in the database of the VITEK system (VITEK®2 ANC ID when there
