REVIEW
KEYWORDS: fields, striatum, corynebacterium, infections, corynebacterium striatum, patients, infection, mesh, terms, antibiotic, treatment, invasive, mesh terms, reported, infect


striatum is reliable after the inclusion of this pathogen system can also be used with significant reliability, especially in the database of the VITEK system (VITEK®2 ANC ID when there is a need for a rapid identification of the causative of equipments for the 16S rRNA sequencing or the be used as the antibiotic of choice, as monotherapy or in MALDI-TOF. combination with piperacillin-tazobactam, depending on the In recent years, C. striatum has been classified as type and severity of the infection. Alternatively, linezolid, multidrug-resistant, which is confirmed by the results teicoplanin or daptomycin may be used in severe infections, of this systematic review article, due to a high degree of while amoxicillin-clavulanate may be used to treat only resistance showed to fluoroquinolones, the vast majority mild infections caused by C. striatum, if their potential use of β-lactams, aminoglycosides, macrolides, lincosamides matches the results of the in vitro activity findings. Duration and cotrimoxazole. Molecular mechanisms of resistance of antibiotic therapy should be adjusted according to the of C. striatum to these classes of antibiotics are already severity and anatomical site of the infection. During the known. Resistance of C. striatum to fluoroquinolones is administration of vancomycin, regular monitoring of renal the most likely result of mutations at codons 87 and 91 of function is necessary, especially in elderly patients. On the the QRDR gyrA gene58, while resistance of this bacterium other hand, the use of linezolid for the treatment C. striatum to β-lactams is most likely a consequence of synthesis of infections requiring several months of treatment should β-lactamase3. The presence of multiresistance plasmid be avoided, because the prolonged use of this antibiotic is pTP10 explains the resistance that this bacterium shows accompanied by a higher risk of serious side effects. to macrolides, tetracyclines and clindamycin59. However, despite the problem of resistance that C. striatum showed ACKNOWLEDGMENTS to a large number of antibiotics, our review confirmed a good in vitro susceptibility of this bacterium primarily This study was partially financed by grant Nº 175007, to vancomycin, linezolid, teicoplanin and piperacillin- given by the Serbian Ministry of Education, Science and tazobactam, without any case of resistance. High resistance Technological Development. of C. striatum strains towards macrolides, lincosamides, fluoroquinolones, β-lactams and rifampicin on the one AUTHORS’ CONTRIBUTIONS hand, respectively 100% susceptibility to vancomycin, daptomycin and linezolid, on the other hand, was also MM had idea for the article. MM, SS, AK, MM,
