Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


(PAD). PAD is common in diabetes, may be the first presentation of ASCVD and should be recognized as needing aggressive treatment of risk factors. The risk of ASCVD is increased approximately 2-fold in men and 3-4-fold in women ( 2 - 4 , 6 , 7 ). In the Framingham study, the annual rate of ASCVD was similar in men and women with diabetes, emphasizing that woman with diabetes need as aggressive preventive treatment as men with diabetes ( 2 , 6 ). In addition, several but not all studies, have shown that patients with diabetes with no history of ASCVD have a similar risk of having a myocardial infarction as non-diabetic patients who have a history of ASCVD, i.e., diabetes is an equivalent risk factor as a history of a previous cardiovascular event ( 8 , 9 ). The duration of diabetes and the presence of other risk factors or complications of diabetes likely determine whether a patient with diabetes has a risk equivalent to patients with a history of previous ASCVD events ( 10 , 11 ). In one study patients with T2DM who had the following risk factors within the target range, HbA1c, LDL-C, albuminuria, smoking, and blood pressure, the risk of an acute myocardial infarction or stroke was similar to individuals without diabetics ( 12 ). Moreover, numerous studies have shown that patients with diabetes who have ASCVD are at a very high risk of having another event, indicating that this population of patient’s needs especially aggressive preventive measures ( 1 , 8 ). This increased risk for the development of ASCVD in patients with diabetes is seen both in populations where the prevalence of ASCVD is high (Western societies) and low (for example, Japan) ( 2 ). However, in societies where the prevalence of ASCVD is low, the contribution of ASCVD as a cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with diabetes is relatively low compared to Western societies ( 2 ). While the database is not as robust, the evidence indicates that patients with T1DM are also at high risk for the development of ASCVD ( 1 , 13 - 15 ). Interestingly, women with T1DM have twice the excess risk of fatal and nonfatal vascular events compared to men with T1DM ( 16 , 17 ). Additionally, developing T1DM at a young age increases the risk of ASCVD to a greater degree than
