Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


nonfatal vascular events compared to men with T1DM ( 16 , 17 ). Additionally, developing T1DM at a young age increases the risk of ASCVD to a greater degree than late onset T1DM ( 17 ). Approximately 50% of patients with T1DM are obese or overweight and between 8% and 40% meet the criteria for the metabolic syndrome, which increases their risk of developing ASCVD ( 18 ). While the development of diabetes at a young age increases the risk of ASCVD in patients with both T1DM and T2DM the deleterious impact is greater in patients with T2DM ( 19 ). Lastly, in patients with both T1DM and T2DM the presence of renal disease increases the risk of ASCVD ( 4 , 14 ). Of note is that the risk of developing ASCVD events in patients with diabetes has decreased recently, most likely due to better lipid and blood pressure control, which again reinforces the need to aggressively treat these risk factors in patients with diabetes ( 5 , 7 , 20 ). ROLE OF GLYCEMIC CONTROL Epidemiological studies have shown an association between the level of glycemic control and the development of ASCVD in both T1DM and T2DM ( 1 , 4 , 5 , 21 , 22 ). However, the association of glycemic control with ASCVD is considerably weaker than the association of glycemic control with the microvascular complications of diabetes, such as retinopathy and nephropathy ( 4 ). It must be recognized that epidemiological studies can only demonstrate associations and that confounding variables could account for the association between poor glycemic control and ASCVD. For example, patients with poor glycemic control may not undertake other preventive measures that could reduce ASCVD such as exercise, healthy diet, etc. Furthermore, the patients with poor glycemic control may have less compliance with therapies that reduce lipids and blood pressure. Therefore, randomized studies are essential in determining the role of glycemic control on ASCVD. Early randomized studies, such as the University Group Diabetes Project (UGDP) and VA cooperative study, did not demonstrate a reduction in cardiovascular events in patients who were aggressively treated for glucose control ( 23 - 25 ). In fact, the data from these early studies suggested that improvements in glycemic control (VA cooperative study) or the use of certain drugs to treat diabetes (oral sulfonylureas in UGDP) may actually increase the risk of ASCVD. Diabetes Control and
