Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


improvements in glycemic control (VA cooperative study) or the use of certain drugs to treat diabetes (oral sulfonylureas in UGDP) may actually increase the risk of ASCVD. Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) and Kumamoto Studies Latter studies, the DCCT in patients with T1DM and the Kumamoto study in patients with T2DM, while finding a decrease in ASCVD events (DCCT 41% decrease) in the subjects randomized to improved glycemic control did not have enough ASCVD events to demonstrate a statistically significant reduction (DCCT studied a population at low risk for ASCVD and the Kumamoto study had a very small number of subjects) ( 26 - 28 ). In contrast, both the DCCT and the Kumamoto study clearly demonstrated that improvements in glycemic control resulted in a reduction in microvascular disease ( 26 - 28 ). However, the long- term follow-up of the DCCT has demonstrated that those in the intensive glycemic control group had a decrease in ASCVD in subsequent years ( 29 , 30 ). The initial DCCT compared intensive vs. conventional therapy for a mean of 6.5 years. At the end of the study, a very large proportion of subjects agreed to participate in a follow-up observational study (Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications- EDIC). During this follow-up period, glycemic control was relatively similar between the intensive therapy and conventional therapy group (glycosylated hemoglobin 7.9% vs. 7.8%) but during the actual trial there was a large difference in glycosylated hemoglobin levels (7.4% vs. 9.1%). After a mean 17 years of observation, the risk of any cardiovascular event was reduced by 42% and the risk of nonfatal myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, or death from ASCVD was reduced by 57% in the intensive control group. This study demonstrates that being in the intensive glycemic control group (for 6.5 of the 17 years of observation) is sufficient to have long-term beneficial effects on the risk of developing ASCVD in patients with T1DM. This beneficial effect was not entirely due to the prevention of microvascular complications as the differences between the intensive and conventional treatment groups for ASCVD persisted after adjusting for microalbuminuria and albuminuria. When an outcome of improved glycemic control is seen, or persists for years after the trial is over the phenomenon is called a “metabolic memory” effect. UK Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) A similar finding has been reported with regard to T2DM. The UKPDS studied a large number
