Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


over the phenomenon is called a “metabolic memory” effect. UK Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) A similar finding has been reported with regard to T2DM. The UKPDS studied a large number of newly diagnosed patients with T2DM at risk for ASCVD. In this study improved glycemic control, with either insulin or sulfonylureas, reduced ASCVD by 16%, which just missed being statistically significant (p=0.052) ( 31 ). In the UKPDS, the improvement in glycemic control was modest (HbA1c reduced by approximately 0.9%) and the 16% reduction in ASCVD was in the range predicted based on epidemiological studies. The results of a 10-year follow-up of the UKPDS study have been reported (total duration of observation 25 years) ( 32 ). After termination of the study, glycosylated hemoglobin levels became very similar between the control and treatment groups. Nevertheless, risk reductions for MI became statistically significant for the insulin and the sulfonylurea group compared to controls (15% decrease, p=0.01). DiGami Studies Similarly, the DiGami study, which used insulin infusion during the peri-MI period to improve glycemic control followed by long-term glycemic control, demonstrated that survival post MI was significantly improved by good glycemic control ( 33 ). While this study focused on a highly-selected population and time period (patients undergoing a MI), the results are consistent with the hypothesis that improvements in glycemic control will reduce ASCVD. However, the DiGami 2 study did not confirm the benefits of tight glucose control beginning in the peri-MI period on outcomes ( 34 ). It must be noted though that the differences in glucose control achieved in DiGami 2 were much smaller than planned and the number of patients recruited was less than anticipated. Together these deficiencies could account for the failure to demonstrate significant differences in ASCVD events in this study. ACCORD Study Because of the need for more definitive data on the effect of glycemic control on ASCVD in T2DM, three large randomized trials, the ACCORD, ADVANCE, and VA Diabetes Trial, have been carried out. Much to everyone’s surprise and disappointment, improvement in glycemic control did not clearly result in a significant reduction in ASCVD in these trials. The ACCORD study randomized 10,251 subjects with T2DM in the US and Canada with either a history of ASCVD or at increased risk for the development of ASCVD ( 35 ). Multiple different treatment protocols were used with the goal of achieving an A1c level < 6%
