Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


of ASCVD or at increased risk for the development of ASCVD ( 35 ). Multiple different treatment protocols were used with the goal of achieving an A1c level < 6% in the intensive group and between 7-7.9% in the standard glycemic control group. During the trial the A1c levels were 6.4% in the intensive group and 7.5% in the standard group. As expected, the use of insulin therapy was much greater in the intensive group, as was the occurrence of hypoglycemia and weight gain. After a mean duration of 3.5 years this study was stopped early by the data safety monitoring board due to an increased all-cause mortality in the intensive treatment group (1.41% vs. 1.14% per year; hazard ratio 1.22 CI 1.01- 1.46). The primary outcome (MI, stroke, ASCVD death) was reduced by 10% in the intensive control group but this was not statistically significant (p=0.16). Of note, intensive glycemic control reduced the incidence of any MI (i.e. fatal or non-fatal) by 16%, nonfatal MI by 19%, coronary revascularization by 16%, and unstable angina by 19% ( 36 ).The explanation for the increased death rate in the intensive treatment arm remains unknown, but it has been speculated that the increased deaths might have been due to hypoglycemia, weight gain, too rapidly lowering A1c levels, or unrecognized drug toxicity. Long term follow-up of the ACCORD study did not reveal any beneficial effects on the primary outcome (nonfatal MI, nonfatal stroke, or cardiovascular death), death from any cause, and an expanded composite outcome that included all-cause death in the intensive glycemic control group ( 37 ). ADVANCE Study The ADVANCE study randomized 11,140 subjects with T2DM in Europe, Asia, Australia/New Zealand, and Canada who either had ASCVD or at least one other risk factor for ASCVD ( 38 ). In the intensive group the goal A1c was <6.5%. The achieved A1c levels during the trial were 6.3% in the intensive group and 7.3% in the standard treatment group. Of note is that compared to the ACCORD study, less insulin use was required to achieve these A1c levels. With regard to macrovascular disease (MI, stroke, and cardiovascular death), no significant differences were observed between the intensive and standard treatment groups (HR 0.94, CI 0.84-1.06, p=0.32). In contrast to the ACCORD trial, no increase in overall or cardiovascular mortality in the intensive treatment group was observed in the ADVANCE study. Long term follow-up
