Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


the risk for nonfatal MI (RR 0.85; 95% CI 0.76-0.95) ( 43 ). In a meta-analysis of 4 studies (UKPDS, ACCORD, ADVANCE, and VA Diabetes Trial) the primary outcome was the composite of death from cardiovascular causes (including sudden death), non-fatal MI and non-fatal stroke, which was decreased by 9% (HR 0.91, 95% CI 0.84–0.99) in the intensive control group ( 44 ). Of note the risk of non-fatal/fatal MI was reduced by 15% (HR 0.85, 95% CI 0.76–0.94) in the intensive group without significant reductions in the risk of non-fatal/fatal stroke, fatal heart failure, all-cause mortality, or cardiovascular death. Limitations of Cardiovascular Outcome Studies Thus, while the epidemiological data strongly suggests that glycemic control would favorably impact ASCVD the recent randomized trials that were designed specifically to prove this hypothesis have failed to definitively demonstrate a clear link. There are several explanations for why these trials may not have worked as planned. First, in the ACCORD, ADVANCE, and VA Diabetes Trial, other ASCVD risk factors were aggressively treated (lipid and BP lowering, ASA therapy). As a result of these treatments, the actual number of ASCVD events was considerably less than expected in these trials. The lower event rate may have reduced the ability to see a beneficial effect of glucose control. Additionally, the beneficial effects of glucose control maybe more robust if other risk factors are not aggressively controlled. In this regard, it is worth noting that in the earlier UKPDS, which showed that improved glycemic control reduced ASCVD events, both BP and lipids were not aggressively treated by current standards (systolic BP 135-140mm Hg, LDL-C 135-142mg/dL), which could be why this older trial demonstrated a benefit of improving glycemic control on ASCVD. Second, these three recent trials were comparing relatively low A1c levels in both the intensive and usual control groups (A1c in intensive from ~6.4-6.9% and usual control group from ~7.0-8.4%). It is likely that both levels are on the “flatter” portion of the glycemic control-cardiovascular risk curve and that if one compared patients with intensive glycemic control with a control group with higher A1c values one would see more impressive results. If the difference in A1c levels were greater in the intensive and control groups the likelihood of seeing a reduction in cardiovascular events in the intensive group would be enhanced. Third, all three trials were carried out by initiating tight control in patients with long
