Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


likelihood of seeing a reduction in cardiovascular events in the intensive group would be enhanced. Third, all three trials were carried out by initiating tight control in patients with long standing diabetes who either had pre-existing ASCVD or were at high risk for ASCVD. It is possible that patients with a different clinical profile would be more likely to benefit from intensive glucose control. Subgroup analysis from these trials have suggested that patients with a shorter duration of diabetes, less severe diabetes, or the absence of pre-existing ASCVD actually benefited from intensive control. It may be that glycemic control is most important prior to the development of significant atherosclerosis. Clearly additional studies on different types of patients (i.e., newly diagnosed without evidence of ASCVD) will be necessary to definitively determine the role of glycemic control in different diabetic populations. Fourth, the duration of these studies was relatively short and it is possible that a much longer duration of glycemic control is required to show benefits on ASCVD. In the UKPDS study the beneficial effects of intensive glucose control was not statistically significant at the end of the study but with an extended duration of follow-up (15-25 years) became statistically significant. Fifth, it may be that glycemic control will be more important in patients with T1DM where abnormalities in glucose metabolism are a major reason for the increased risk of ASCVD. In contrast, patients with T2DM have multiple risk factors for ASCVD (dyslipidemia, hypertension, inflammation, insulin resistance, coagulation disorders, etc.) and glucose may play only a minor role in the increased risk. The differences in other cardiovascular risk factors could account for why intensive glycemic control produced a marked reduction in ASCVD in the DCCT (T1DM trial) and had only minimal effects in the trials carried out in patients with T2DM. Finally, it is possible that certain treatments have side effects that mask the beneficial effects of glucose control. For example, hypoglycemia and weight gain could counterbalance the beneficial effects of improvements in glycemic control. It is possible that different treatment strategies could lead to more profound benefits (see below). Summary Thus, the currently available data do not definitively indicate that glycemic control will have major effects on reducing ASCVD in patients with T2DM. Furthermore, there are concerns that too tight control in patients with advanced disease could be harmful. In contrast, in patients with T1DM intensive glucose control appears to
