Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


patients with T2DM. Furthermore, there are concerns that too tight control in patients with advanced disease could be harmful. In contrast, in patients with T1DM intensive glucose control appears to have a major beneficial effect on ASCVD based on the results of the DCCT. THE EFFECT OF GLUCOSE LOWERING DRUGS ON ASCVD Metformin In the UKPDS, metformin, while producing a similar improvement in glycemic control as insulin or sulfonylureas, markedly reduced ASCVD by approximately 40% ( 45 ). In the ten-year follow-up the patients randomized to metformin in the UKPDS continued to show a reduction in MI and all-cause mortality ( 32 ). Two other randomized controlled trials have also demonstrated cardiovascular benefits with metformin therapy. A study by Kooy et al compared the effect of adding metformin or placebo in overweight or obese patients already on insulin therapy ( 46 ). After a mean follow-up of 4.3 years this study observed a reduction in macrovascular events (HR 0.61 CI- 0.40-0.94, p=0.02), which was partially accounted for by metformin’s beneficial effects on weight. In this study the difference in A1c between the metformin and placebo group was only 0.3%. Hong et al randomized non-obese patients with coronary artery disease to glipizide vs. metformin therapy for three years ( 47 ). A1c levels were similar, but there was a marked reduction in cardiovascular events in the metformin treated group (HR 0.54 CI 0.30- 0.90, p=0.026). In contrast, long term follow-up (21 years) of individuals in the Diabetes Prevention Program with “pre-diabetes” did not demonstrate a reduction in cardiovascular event in individuals treated with metformin ( 48 ). A reduction in the use of metformin when the formal study ended after 3 years coupled with out-of-study metformin use over time may have diluted the potential effects of metformin therapy. Support for the beneficial effects of metformin on atherosclerosis comes from long term follow-up of the Diabetes Prevention Program, which compared the effect of lifestyle changes or metformin in patients at high risk of developing diabetes ( 49 ). Coronary artery calcium scores were measured on average 13-14 years after randomization ( 49 ). There were no differences in coronary artery calcium scores between the lifestyle and placebo groups. However, in males, coronary artery calcium scores were significantly lower in the metformin group vs. the placebo group. In females treated with metformin coronary artery calcium scores were similar to the placebo group. The
