Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


artery calcium scores were significantly lower in the metformin group vs. the placebo group. In females treated with metformin coronary artery calcium scores were similar to the placebo group. The absence of a beneficial effect of metformin in women could be due to the lower baseline coronary artery calcium scores making it more difficult to demonstrate a beneficial effect. In HIV-infected patients with the metabolic syndrome metformin similarly reduced the progression of coronary artery calcium scores ( 50 ). Thus, while there are no large cardiovascular outcome trials with metformin, together, the above results suggest that metformin may reduce ASCVD and that this effect is not due to improving glucose control. Metformin decreases weight or prevents weight gain and lowers lipid levels and these or other non-glucose effects may account for the beneficial effects on ASCVD. Sulfonylureas Based on the University Group Diabetes Project (UGDP) sulfonylureas carry a warning regarding an increased risk of ASCVD ( 24 , 25 ). However, the UKPDS studied a large number of newly diagnosed patients with T2DM at risk for ASCVD and in this study improved glycemic control with sulfonylureas reduced ASCVD by approximately 16%, which just missed being statistically significant (p=0.052) ( 31 ). In the UKPDS, A1c was reduced by approximately 0.9% and the 16% reduction in ASCVD was in the range predicted based on epidemiological studies. Thus, the reduction in cardiovascular events was likely due to improvements in glycemic control and not a direct benefit of sulfonylurea treatment. In support of this conjecture is that in the UKPDS, insulin treatment resulted in a similar decrease in A1c levels and reduction in cardiovascular events ( 31 ). Additionally, a large randomized cardiovascular outcome study (Carolina Study) reported that linagliptin, a DPP-4 inhibitor, and glimepiride, a sulfonylurea, had similar effects on cardiovascular events (hazard ratio 0.98) ( 51 ). Similarly, in the ADVANCE trial patients in the intensive therapy group were randomized to gliclazide and as noted above the occurrence of cardiovascular events was similar to the control group ( 38 ).Taken together these results suggest that sulfonylureas have a neutral effect on ASCVD. Meglitinides The Navigator study was a double-blind, randomized clinical trial in 9,306 individuals with impaired glucose tolerance and either ASCVD or cardiovascular risk factors who received nateglinide (up to 60 mg three times daily) or placebo ( 52 ). After 5 years, nateglinide administration did not alter the incidence
