Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


ASCVD or cardiovascular risk factors who received nateglinide (up to 60 mg three times daily) or placebo ( 52 ). After 5 years, nateglinide administration did not alter the incidence of cardiovascular outcomes suggesting that meglitinides do not have an adverse or beneficial effect on cardiovascular events. Thiazolidinediones Studies with pioglitazone have suggested a beneficial effect on ASCVD. The PROactive study was a randomized controlled trial that examined the effect of pioglitazone vs. placebo over a 3-year period in T2DM with pre-existing macrovascular disease ( 53 ). With regard to the primary endpoint (a composite of all-cause mortality, non-fatal MI including silent MI, stroke, acute coronary syndrome, endovascular or surgical intervention in the coronary or leg arteries, and amputation above the ankle), there was a 10% reduction in events in the pioglitazone group but this difference was not statistically significant (p=0.095). It should be noted that both leg revascularization and leg amputations are not typical primary end points in ASCVD trials and these could be affected by pioglitazone induced edema. When one focuses on standard ASCVD endpoints, the pioglitazone treated group did demonstrate a 16% reduction in the main secondary endpoint (composite of all-cause mortality, non-fatal MI, and stroke) that was statistically significant (p=0.027). In the pioglitazone treated group, blood pressure, A1c, triglyceride, and HDL-C levels were all improved compared to the placebo group making it very likely that the mechanism by which pioglitazone decreased vascular events was multifactorial. A multicenter, double-blind trial (IRIS Trial), randomly assigned 3,876 patients with insulin resistance (defined as score of more than 3.0 on the homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance [HOMA-IR] index) but without diabetes and a recent ischemic stroke or TIA to treatment with either pioglitazone (target dose, 45 mg daily) or placebo ( 54 ). After 4.8 years, the primary outcome of fatal or nonfatal stroke or MI occurred in 9.0% of the pioglitazone group and 11.8% of the placebo group (hazard ratio 0.76; P=0.007). All components of the primary outcome were reduced in the pioglitazone treated group. Fasting glucose, fasting TG, and systolic and diastolic blood pressure were lower while HDL-C and LDL-C levels were higher in the pioglitazone group than in the placebo group. Although this study excluded patients with diabetes the results are consistent with and support the results of a protective effect of pioglitazone observed in the PROactive study. In contrast, the TOSCA.IT study compared the effect
