Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


with diabetes the results are consistent with and support the results of a protective effect of pioglitazone observed in the PROactive study. In contrast, the TOSCA.IT study compared the effect of pioglitazone vs. sulfonylurea on ASCVD and did not observe a reduction in events with pioglitazone treatment ( 55 ). Patients with T2DM (n= 3028), inadequately controlled with metformin monotherapy (2-3 g per day), were randomized to pioglitazone or sulfonylurea and followed for a median of 57 months. Only 11% of the participants had a previous cardiovascular event. The primary outcome, was a composite of first occurrence of all-cause death, non-fatal MI, non-fatal stroke, or urgent coronary revascularization and occurred in 6.8% of the patients treated with pioglitazone and 7.2% of the patients treated with a sulfonylurea (HR 0.96; NS) ( 55 ). Limitations of this study are the small number of events due to the low-risk population studied and the relatively small number of participants. Additionally, 28% of the subjects randomized to pioglitazone prematurely discontinued the medication. Furthermore, it should be noted that when patients in this study were analyzed based on the risk of developing ASCVD those at high risk had a marked reduction in events when treated with pioglitazone compared to the sulfonylurea ( 56 ).Thus, the results of this study should be interpreted with caution. Further support for the beneficial effects of pioglitazone on atherosclerosis is provided by studies that have examined the effect of pioglitazone on carotid intima-medial thickness. Both the Chicago and Pioneer studies demonstrated favorable effects on carotid intima-medial thickness in patients treated with pioglitazone compared to patients treated with sulfonylureas ( 57 , 58 ). Similarly, Periscope, a study that measured atheroma volume in the coronary arteries by intravascular ultrasonography, also demonstrated less atherosclerosis in the pioglitazone treated group compared to patients treated with sulfonylureas ( 59 ). While the data from a variety of different types of studies strongly suggests that pioglitazone is anti-atherogenic, the results with rosiglitazone are different. Several meta-analyses of small and short-duration rosiglitazone trials suggested that rosiglitazone was associated with an increased risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes ( 60 , 61 ). However, the final results of the RECORD study, a randomized trial that was specifically designed to compare the effect of rosiglitazone vs. either metformin or sulfonylurea therapy as a second oral drug in those receiving either metformin or a sulfonylurea on ASCVD events, have been
