Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


to compare the effect of rosiglitazone vs. either metformin or sulfonylurea therapy as a second oral drug in those receiving either metformin or a sulfonylurea on ASCVD events, have been published and did not reveal a difference in ASCVD death, MI, or stroke ( 62 - 64 ). Similarly, an analysis of patients on rosiglitazone in the BARI 2D trial also did not suggest an increase or decrease in ASCVD events in the patients treated with rosiglitazone ( 65 ). Thus, while the available data suggests that pioglitazone is anti-atherogenic, the data for rosiglitazone suggests a neutral effect. Whether these differences between pioglitazone and rosiglitazone are accounted for by their differential effects on lipid levels are unknown (see below for information on the effects of these drugs on lipid levels). Numerous studies have shown that both pioglitazone and rosiglitazone increase the risk of heart failure ( 66 ). DPP4 Inhibitors Because of the importance of ASCVD in patients with diabetes the FDA is requiring manufacturers of new drugs to treat diabetes to carry out studies addressing ASCVD endpoints. The effect of the DPP4 inhibitors saxagliptin, alogliptin, sitagliptin, and linagliptin on ASCVD endpoints has been reported. In the saxagliptin study (SAVOR‐TIMI 53 trial), 16,492 patients with T2DM who had a history of cardiovascular events or who were at high risk were randomized to saxagliptin or placebo for 2.1 years ( 67 ). Saxagliptin did not increase or decrease cardiovascular death, MI, or ischemic stroke. Interestingly more patients treated with saxagliptin were admitted to the hospital for heart failure. The risk of heart failure with saxagliptin was greatest in patients at a high overall risk of heart failure (i.e., history of heart failure, impaired renal function, or elevated baseline levels of NT-proBNP) ( 68 ). Additionally, in the patients treated with saxagliptin the increase in heart failure was an early event with a 6-month rate of 1.1% vs. 0.6% in the placebo group (HR 1.80, p=0·001) and a 12-month rate of 1·9% vs. 1·3% (1.46; p=0.002) ( 68 ). In contrast, after 12 months no difference in the rate of heart failure was observed in the saxagliptin and placebo groups indicating that the development of heart failure is an early event ( 68 ). In the alogliptin trial (EXAMINE), 5,380 patients with either an acute MI or unstable angina within the previous 15-90 days were randomized to alogliptin or placebo and followed
