Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


68 ). In the alogliptin trial (EXAMINE), 5,380 patients with either an acute MI or unstable angina within the previous 15-90 days were randomized to alogliptin or placebo and followed for a median of 18 months ( 69 ). As seen in the saxagliptin study the rates of ASCVD events were similar in the alogliptin and placebo groups. The risk of hospitalization for heart failure was not statistically increased in the entire subset of patients treated with alogliptin ( 70 ). However, the hazard ratio for the subgroup of patients without heart failure at baseline was 1.76, p=0.026) ( 70 ). In the sitagliptin trial (TECOS), 14,671 patients with established ASCVD were randomized to sitagliptin or placebo for 3 years ( 71 ). Sitagliptin did not decrease the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events or increase hospitalization for heart failure. Finally, in the linagliptin trial (CARMELINA), 6,979 patients at high risk for ASCVD were randomized to linagliptin or placebo for a median follow-up of 2.2 years ( 72 ). As in the other DPP4 inhibitor studies, linagliptin did not have a beneficial effect on ASCVD events. Additionally, linagliptin did not increase the risk of hospitalization for heart failure. Thus, these results indicate that DPP4 inhibitors do not increase or decrease ASCVD. The extent to which specific DPP4 inhibitors affect heart failure needs further investigation. SGLT2 Inhibitors EMPA-REG OUTCOME TRIAL The effects of empagliflozin on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in patients with T2DM has been reported ( 73 ). In this study, 7,020 patients at high risk for ASCVD were randomly assigned to receive 10 mg or 25 mg of empagliflozin or placebo once daily and were followed for 3.1 years. In the combined empagliflozin treated groups there was a statistically significant 14% reduction in the primary outcome (death from cardiovascular causes, nonfatal MI, or nonfatal stroke). As compared with placebo, empagliflozin treatment did not result in a significant difference in the occurrence of non-fatal MI or strokes. However, empagliflozin resulted in a significantly lower risk of death from cardiovascular causes (hazard ratio, 0.62), death from any cause (hazard ratio, 0.68), and hospitalization for heart failure (hazard ratio, 0.65). The beneficial effects of empagliflozin were noted to occur very rapidly and the beneficial effects on heart failure appeared to be the dominant effect compared to effects on ASCVD events. Decreases in cardiovascular outcomes and mortality with empagliflozin occurred across the range
