Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


with established cardiovascular or chronic kidney disease, or age ≥60 years with cardiovascular risk factors) were randomly assigned to receive oral semaglutide or placebo ( 89 ). After a median time of 15.9 months, major adverse cardiovascular events, the primary outcome, occurred in 3.8% of the subjects treated with oral semaglutide and 4.8% of the placebo group (HR 0.79; 95% CI 0.57 to 1.11). Deaths from cardiovascular causes were 0.9% in the oral semaglutide group and 1.9% in the placebo group (HR 0.49; 95% CI, 0.27 to 0.92) while death from any cause occurred in 1.4% in the oral semaglutide group and 2.8% in the placebo group (HR 0.51; 95% CI, 0.31 to 0.84). It should be noted that the primary outcome was not statistically decreased in this study, which may be due to the relatively small number of subjects studied and the short duration of the study that together resulted in a small number of events. Additionally, more patients in the placebo group received treatment with an SGLT2 inhibitor than in the oral semaglutide group and SGLT2 inhibitors are well recognized to reduce cardiovascular events, which could also have diminished the ability to observe a decrease in events in the oral semaglutide group. Because the direction of change in cardiovascular events in PIONEER 6 and glucose lowering, weight loss, and many other effects of oral semaglutide are very similar to injected semaglutide many experts consider the effects on cardiovascular to also be similar. EXSCEL TRIAL The effect of once weekly exenatide vs. placebo on cardiovascular outcomes was tested in 14,752 patients, 73% who had ASCVD ( 90 ). The primary outcome was the occurrence of death from cardiovascular causes, nonfatal MI, or nonfatal stroke. After a median follow-up of 3.2 years (duration of drug exposure 2.4 years) the primary outcome was reduced in the exenatide treated group but this difference just missed achieving statistical significance (hazard ratio 0.91; 95% CI 0.83-1.00; p=0.06). While not statistically significant these results are consistent with the results observed with liraglutide and semaglutide treatment. It should be recognized that a high percentage of patients discontinued exenatide therapy in this trial (>40%) and this could have adversely affected the ability of exenatide treatment to favorably effect ASCD outcomes. HARMONY OUTCOMES TRIAL The effect of once weekly albiglutide vs. placebo was tested in 9,463 patients with ASCVD ( 91 ). The primary outcome was first occurrence
