Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


99 ). In a randomized trial acarbose vs. placebo was compared in 6,522 patients with coronary heart disease and impaired glucose tolerance. The primary outcome was cardiovascular death, non-fatal MI, non-fatal stroke, hospital admission for unstable angina, and hospital admission for heart failure and patients were followed for a median of 5 years. The primary outcome was similar in the acarbose and placebo groups (hazard ratio 0.98; 95% CI 0.86-1.11, p=0·73). No significant differences were seen for death from any cause, cardiovascular death, fatal or non-fatal MI, fatal or non-fatal stroke, hospital admission for unstable angina, hospital admission for heart failure, or impaired renal function. Thus, whether acarbose favorably affects ASCVD in patients at high risk for developing diabetes is uncertain. Moreover, the effect of acarbose on ASCVD in patients with diabetes is unknown. Cycloset Cycloset is a quick-release bromocriptine formulation (bromocriptine-QR) that activates the D2 dopamine receptor and is approved for the treatment of diabetes. A 52 week, randomized, double-blind, multicenter trial evaluated cardiovascular safety in 3,095 patients with T2DM treated with bromocriptine-QR or placebo ( 100 ). The composite end point of first MI, stroke, coronary revascularization, or hospitalization for angina or congestive heart failure occurred in 1.8% of the bromocriptine-QR treated vs. 3.2% of the placebo-treated patients resulting in a 40% decrease in cardiovascular events (HR 0.60; CI 0.37– 0.96). Clearly further studies to confirm this finding and to elucidate the mechanism of this beneficial effect are required. Bile Acid Sequestrants Colesevelam is a non-absorbed, polymeric, LDL-C lowering and glucose lowering agent that is a high-capacity bile acid-binding molecule. This drug was developed primarily to lower LDL-C levels and was later noted to have favorable effects on blood glucose levels and was approved for improving glycemic control in patients with T2DM ( 101 ). There have been no randomized studies that have examined the effect of bile acid sequestrants on cardiovascular end points in subjects with diabetes. In non-diabetic-subjects bile acid sequestrants have reduced cardiovascular events ( 102 , 103 ). Since bile acid sequestrants have a similar beneficial impact on LDL-C levels in diabetic and non-diabetic subjects one would anticipate that these drugs would also result in a reduction in events in the diabetic population. Insulin As described above in patients with T1DM the DCCT trial and in T2DM in the UKPDS trial demonstrated that insulin therapy reduced cardiovascular events by improving glycemic control ( 29
