Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


As described above in patients with T1DM the DCCT trial and in T2DM in the UKPDS trial demonstrated that insulin therapy reduced cardiovascular events by improving glycemic control ( 29 - 32 ). In the Origin Trial 12,537 people with cardiovascular risk factors plus impaired fasting glucose, impaired glucose tolerance, or T2DM were randomized to receive insulin glargine or standard care ( 104 ). The cardiovascular outcomes, which included nonfatal MI, nonfatal stroke, death from cardiovascular causes, revascularization, or hospitalization for heart failure, were similar in the glargine and placebo groups. Extended follow-up also did not demonstrate favorable effects on cardiovascular events in the glargine treated patients ( 105 ). Additionally, in patients with T2DM at high risk for cardiovascular events the occurrence of major cardiovascular events was similar in patients treated with degludec insulin or glargine insulin ( 106 ). These studies demonstrate that insulin does not accelerate atherosclerosis and by lowering glucose levels may decrease atherosclerosis, although the protective effects are mainly observed in patients with T1DM over a protracted period of time. Other Studies Finally, the Bari 2D study compared the effect of insulin sensitizers (metformin/TZD- mostly rosiglitazone) vs. insulin provision therapy (sulfonylureas/insulin) on cardiovascular outcomes in patients with T2DM and coronary artery disease (> 50% stenosis and positive stress test or > 70% stenosis and classic angina) ( 107 , 108 ). In this study, no differences in survival or cardiovascular endpoints were observed between metformin/TZD therapy vs. sulfonylurea/insulin therapy for the entire study. However, in the group with more severe coronary artery disease who were selected for coronary artery bypass surgery, the combination of coronary artery bypass and treatment with insulin sensitizers was associated with a lower rate of cardiovascular events. Why the metformin/TZD group only derived an enhanced benefit in the coronary artery bypass patients in this study is unknown. It should be noted that the vast majority of patients on TZD therapy were treated with rosiglitazone and, as discussed above, the effects of rosiglitazone on ASCVD do not appear to be as beneficial as pioglitazone. Summary These studies clearly demonstrate that the method by which one improves glycemic control may be very important with different drugs having effects in addition to glucose lowering that reduce cardiovascular events ( table 2 ). While previous treatment algorithms have primarily focused on the effect of drugs on glycemic control, current treatment recommendations for patients with diabetes
