Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


that reduce cardiovascular events ( table 2 ). While previous treatment algorithms have primarily focused on the effect of drugs on glycemic control, current treatment recommendations for patients with diabetes are using the results of these ASCVD trials to decide which drugs should be employed. For example, the ADA is recommending that in patients with high risk or established ASCVD an SGLT inhibitor or GLP1 receptor agonist with proven cardiovascular benefit should be part of the initial treatment regimen independent of A1c levels ( 109 ). Table 2. Effect of Glucose Lowering Drugs on Atherosclerotic ASCVD View in own window Metformin Studies suggest benefit Sulfonylureas No effect Meglitinides No effect Thiazolidinediones Rosiglitazone no effect; Pioglitazone- studies suggest benefit DPP4 Inhibitors No effect on atherosclerosis. SGLT2 Inhibitors Marginal effect on ASCVD, Large effect on heart failure GLP-1 Receptor Agonists Decrease events Tirzepatide Study ongoing Acarbose No effect Cycloset Further studies required Bile Acid Sequestrants Decrease events, further studies required Insulin No effect Thiazolidinediones clearly increase the risk of heart failure while saxagliptin and alogliptin may increase risk of heart failure. SGLT2 inhibitors decrease the risk of heart failure. ROLE OF OTHER RISK FACTORS IN ASCVD Numerous studies have demonstrated that the traditional risk factors for ASCVD play an important role in patients with diabetes ( 2 , 4 , 5 , 110 ). Patients with diabetes without other risk factors have a relatively low risk of ASCVD (in most studies higher than similar non-diabetic patients), whereas the increasing prevalence of other risk factors markedly increases the risk of developing ASCVD ( 2 ). The major reversible traditional risk factors are hypertension, cigarette smoking, and lipid abnormalities ( 2 , 4 , 5 , 14 , 111 ). Other risk factors include obesity (particularly visceral obesity), insulin resistance, small dense LDL, elevated TG, low HDL-C, procoagulant state (increased PAI-1, fibrinogen), family history of early ASCVD, homocysteine, Lp (a), renal disease, albuminuria, and inflammation (C-reactive protein, SAA, cytokines) ( 2 , 4 , 5 , 110 , 111 ). In the last decade, it has become clear that to reduce the risk of ASCVD in patients with diabetes, one will not only need to improve glycemic control but also address these other cardiovascular risk factors. In the remainder of this chapter, I will focus on the dyslipidemia that occurs in patients with diabetes. ROLE OF LIPIDS IN ASCVD As in non-diabetic populations, epidemiological
