Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


risk factors. In the remainder of this chapter, I will focus on the dyslipidemia that occurs in patients with diabetes. ROLE OF LIPIDS IN ASCVD As in non-diabetic populations, epidemiological studies have shown that increased LDL-C and non-HDL-C levels and decreased HDL-C levels are associated with an increased risk of ASCVD in patients with diabetes ( 2 , 4 , 110 , 111 ). In the UKPDS cohort LDL-C levels were the strongest predictor of coronary artery disease ( 112 ). While it is universally accepted that elevated levels of LDL-C and non-HDL-C cause atherosclerosis and ASCVD the role of HDL-C is uncertain. Genetic studies and studies of drugs that raise HDL-C have not supported low HDL-C levels as a causative factor for atherosclerosis ( 113 ). Rather it is currently thought that HDL function is associated with atherosclerosis risk and that this does not precisely correlate with HDL-C levels ( 113 ). In patients with diabetes, elevations in serum triglyceride (TG) levels also are associated with an increased risk of ASCVD ( 4 , 111 , 114 ). With regard to TG, it is not clear whether they are a causative factor for ASCVD or whether the elevation in TG is a marker for other abnormalities ( 4 , 111 , 114 , 115 ). Recent Mendelian randomization studies have provided support for the hypothesis that elevated TG levels play a causal role in atherosclerosis ( 115 , 116 ). Unfortunately, as will be discussed later in this chapter lowering TG levels in patients on statin therapy has not decreased cardiovascular events. LIPID ABNORMALITIES IN PATIENTS WITH DIABETES In patients with T1DM in good glycemic control, the lipid profile is very similar to lipid profiles in the general population ( 110 ). In some studies HDL-C levels are modestly increased in patients with T1DM ( 117 ). In contrast, in patients with T2DM, even when in good glycemic control, there are abnormalities in lipid levels ( 118 - 121 ). It is estimated that 30-60% of patients with T2DM have dyslipidemia ( 5 , 122 ). Specifically, patients with T2DM often have an increase in serum TG levels, increased VLDL and IDL, and decreased HDL-C levels. Non-HDL-C levels are increased due to the increase in VLDL and IDL. LDL-C levels are typically not markedly different than in normal subjects but there is an increase in small dense LDL, a
