Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


increased due to the increase in VLDL and IDL. LDL-C levels are typically not markedly different than in normal subjects but there is an increase in small dense LDL, a lipoprotein particle that may be particularly pro-atherogenic ( 123 ). As a consequence, there are more LDL particles, which coupled with the increases in VLDL and IDL, leads to an increase in apolipoprotein B levels ( 118 - 121 ). Additionally, the postprandial increase in serum TG is accentuated and elevations in postprandial lipids may increase the risk of ASCVD ( 118 - 121 ). It should be recognized that the lipid changes in patients with T2D are characteristic of the alterations in lipid profile seen in obesity and the metabolic syndrome (insulin resistance syndrome) ( 124 ). Since a high percentage of patients with T2DM are obese, insulin resistant, and have the metabolic syndrome, it is not surprising that the prevalence of increased TG and small dense LDL and decreased HDL-C is common in patients with T2DM even when these patients are in good glycemic control. Obesity is also accompanied by increased systemic inflammation. The increasing prevalence of obesity/overweight in patients with T1D will likely result in an increased prevalence of dyslipidemia in this population. Studies have shown that the anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory functions of HDL isolated from patients with T1DM and T2DM are reduced ( 117 , 125 ). Additionally, the ability of HDL to facilitate cholesterol efflux is reduced in patients with T1DM and T2DM ( 126 , 127 ). Together these findings indicate that HDL-C levels per se may not fully reflect risk of ASCVD in patients with diabetes and that HDL function is perturbed in patients with diabetes. In both T1DM and T2DM, poor glycemic control increases serum TG levels, VLDL, and IDL, and decreases HDL-C levels ( 119 ). Poor glycemic control can also result in a modest increase in LDL-C, which because of the elevation in TG is often in the small dense LDL subfraction. It is therefore important to optimize glycemic control in patients with diabetes because this will have secondary beneficial effects on lipid levels. Lp(a) levels are usually within the normal range in patients with T1DM and T2DM ( 128 ). Some studies have observed no impact of diabetes mellitus on Lp(a) concentrations while other studies reported an elevation or a decrease in Lp(a) concentrations ( 128 ). The development
