Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


). Some studies have observed no impact of diabetes mellitus on Lp(a) concentrations while other studies reported an elevation or a decrease in Lp(a) concentrations ( 128 ). The development of microalbuminuria and the onset of renal disease are associated with an increase in Lp (a) levels ( 129 ). Of note low Lp(a) levels are associated with an increased risk of developing T2DM ( 128 ). A recent very large case control study found that an Lp(a) concentration in the bottom 10% increases T2DM risk ( 130 ). Table 3. Lipid Abnormalities in Patients with Diabetes View in own window T1DM Lipid profile is similar to controls if glycemic control is good T2DM Increased TG, VLDL, IDL, and non-HDL-C. Decreased HDL-C. Normal LDL-C but increase in small dense LDL, LDL particle number, and apolipoprotein B. Poor glycemic control Increased TG, VLDL, IDL, and non-HDL-C. Decreased HDL-C. Modest increase in LDL-C with increase in small dense LDL, LDL particle number, and apolipoprotein B. EFFECT OF GLUCOSE LOWERING DRUGS ON LIPIDS Some therapies used to improve glycemic control may have an impact on lipid levels above and beyond their effects on glucose metabolism. In reviewing the literature, it is often very difficult to separate improvements in glycemic control vs. direct effects of drugs. Additionally, many of the changes induced by drug therapy result in only small changes in LDL-C, HDL-C, and TG levels, are variable from study to study, and are of questionable clinical significance. Insulin, sulfonylureas, meglinitides, DPP4 inhibitors, and alpha-glucosidase inhibitors do not appear to markedly alter fasting lipid profiles other than by improving glucose control (there are data indicating that DPP4 inhibitors and acarbose decrease postprandial triglyceride excursions, but they do not markedly alter fasting lipid levels) ( 131 ). In contrast, metformin, thiazolidinediones, GLP1 receptor agonists, bromocriptine-QR, and SGLT2 inhibitors have effects independent of glycemic control on serum lipid levels. Metformin may decrease serum TG levels and LDL-C levels without altering HDL-C levels ( 131 ). In a meta-analysis of 37 trials with 2,891 patients, metformin decreased TG by 11.4mg/dL when compared with control treatment (p=0.003) ( 132 ). In an analysis of 24 trials with 1,867 patients, metformin decreased LDL-C by 8.4mg/dL compared to control treatment (p<0.001) ( 132 ). In contrast, metformin did not significantly alter HDL-C levels ( 132 ). It should be noted that in the Diabetes Prevention Program 3,234 individuals with impaired
