Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


(p<0.001) ( 132 ). In contrast, metformin did not significantly alter HDL-C levels ( 132 ). It should be noted that in the Diabetes Prevention Program 3,234 individuals with impaired glucose metabolism were randomized to placebo, intensive lifestyle, or metformin therapy. In the metformin therapy group no significant changes were noted in TG, LDL-C, or HDL-C levels compared to the placebo group ( 133 ). Thus, metformin may have small effects on lipid levels. The effect of thiazolidinediones depends on which agent is used. Rosiglitazone increases serum LDL-C levels, increases HDL-C levels, and only decreases serum TG if the baseline TG levels are high ( 131 ). In contrast, pioglitazone has less impact on LDL-C levels, but increases HDL-C levels, and decreases TG ( 131 ). In the PROactive study, a large randomized cardiovascular outcome study, pioglitazone decreased TG levels by approximately 10%, increased HDL-C levels by approximately 10%, and increased LDL-C by 1-4% ( 134 ). It should be noted that reductions in the small dense LDL subfraction and an increase in the large buoyant LDL subfraction are seen with both thiazolidinediones ( 131 ). In a randomized head-to-head trial, it was shown that pioglitazone decreased TG levels and increased serum HDL-C levels to a greater degree than rosiglitazone treatment ( 135 , 136 ). Additionally, pioglitazone increased LDL-C levels less than rosiglitazone. In contrast to the differences in lipid parameters, both rosiglitazone and pioglitazone decreased A1c and C-reactive protein to a similar extent. The mechanism by which pioglitazone induces more favorable changes in lipid levels than rosiglitazone despite similar changes in glucose levels is unclear, but differential actions of ligands for nuclear hormone receptors are well described. Treatment with SGLT2 inhibitors results in a small increase in LDL-C and HDL-C levels ( 131 ). In a meta-analysis of 48 randomized controlled trials SGLT2 inhibitors significantly increased LDL-C (3.8mg/dL, p < 0.00001), HDL-C (2.3mg/dL, p < 0.00001), and decreased TG levels (8.8mg/dL, p < 0.00001) ( 137 ). The mechanism for these increases in LDL and HDL cholesterol is unknown but could be due to a decrease in plasma volume. The decrease in TG levels could be secondary to weight loss. Bromocriptine-QR (Cycloset) treatment decreases TG levels but has no significant effect on LDL-C or HDL-C levels ( 138 , 139 ). The decrease in TG levels is thought to be due to a decrease in hepatic TG synthesis,
