Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


). Table 4. Effect of Glucose Lowering Drugs on Lipid Levels View in own window Metformin Modestly decrease TG and LDL-C Sulfonylureas No effect DPP4 inhibitors Decrease postprandial TG GLP1 analogues Decrease fasting and postprandial TG, modestly decrease LDL-C Tirzepatide Decrease TG, modestly decrease LDL-C, increase HDL-C Acarbose Decrease postprandial TG Pioglitazone Rosiglitazone Decrease TG and increase HDL-C. Small increase LDL-C but a decrease in small dense LDL SGLT2 inhibitors Small increase in LDL-C and HDL-C Colesevelam Decrease LDL-C. May increase TG Bromocriptine-QR Decrease TG Insulin No effect PATHOPHYSIOLOGY OF THE DYSLIPIDEMIA OF DIABETES Figure 1. Pathophysiology of the Dyslipidemia of Diabetes Multiple mechanisms account for the dyslipidemia seen in patients with T2DM, which are affected both by the level of glucose control and by factors such as obesity and inflammation that also contribute to dyslipidemia. Increase in TG There are a number of different abnormalities that contribute to the dyslipidemia seen in patients with T2DM and obesity ( figure 1 ) ( 119 - 122 , 144 - 146 ). OVERPRODUCTION OF VLDL BY THE LIVER A key abnormality is the overproduction of VLDL by the liver, which is a major contributor to the elevations in serum TG levels. The rate of secretion of VLDL is highly dependent on TG availability, which is determined by the levels of fatty acids available for the synthesis of TG in the liver. An abundance of TG prevents the intra-hepatic degradation of Apo B-100 allowing for increased VLDL formation and secretion. There are three major sources of fatty acids in the liver all of which may be altered in patients with T2DM. First, the flux of fatty acids from adipose tissue to the liver is increased. An increased mass of adipose tissue, particularly visceral stores, results in increased fatty acid delivery to the liver. Additionally, insulin suppresses the lipolysis of TG to free fatty acids in adipose tissue; thus, in patients with either poorly controlled diabetes due to a decrease in insulin or a decrease in insulin activity due to insulin resistance, the inhibition of TG lipolysis is blunted and there is increased TG breakdown leading to increased fatty acid deliver to the liver. A second source of fatty acids in the liver is de novo fatty acid synthesis. Numerous studies have shown that fatty acid synthesis is increased in the liver in patients with T2DM. This increase may be mediated by the
