Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


is de novo fatty acid synthesis. Numerous studies have shown that fatty acid synthesis is increased in the liver in patients with T2DM. This increase may be mediated by the hyperinsulinemia seen in patients with insulin resistance. While the liver is resistant to the effects of insulin on carbohydrate metabolism, the liver remains sensitive to the effects of insulin stimulating lipid synthesis. Specifically, insulin stimulates the activity of SREBP-1c, a transcription factor that increases the expression of the enzymes required for the synthesis of fatty acids. Thus, while the liver is resistant to the effects of insulin on carbohydrate metabolism the liver remains sensitive to the effects of insulin stimulating lipid synthesis. Additionally, in the presence of hyperglycemia, glucose can induce another transcription factor, carbohydrate responsive element binding protein (ChREBP), which also stimulates the transcription of the enzymes required for fatty acid synthesis. The third source of fatty acids is the uptake of TG rich lipoproteins by the liver. Studies have shown an increase in intestinal fatty acid synthesis and the enhanced secretion of chylomicrons in animal models of T2DM. This increase in chylomicrons leads to the increased delivery of fatty acids to the liver. The increase in hepatic fatty acids produced by these three pathways results in an increase in the synthesis of TG in the liver and the protection of Apo B-100 from degradation resulting in the increased formation and secretion of VLDL. Finally, insulin stimulates the post translational degradation of Apo B-100 in the liver and a decrease in insulin activity in patients with T2DM also allows for the enhanced survival of Apo B-100 promoting increased VLDL formation. DECREASED DEGRADATION OF TRIGLYCERIDE RICH LIPOPROTEINS While the overproduction of triglyceride rich lipoproteins by the liver and intestine are important contributors to the elevations in serum TG levels in patients with T2DM, there are also abnormalities in the metabolism of these TG rich lipoproteins. First, there is a modest decrease in lipoprotein lipase activity, the key enzyme that metabolizes TG rich lipoproteins. The expression of lipoprotein lipase is stimulated by insulin and decreased insulin activity in patients with T2DM results in a decrease in lipoprotein lipase, which plays a key role in the hydrolysis of the TG carried in chylomicrons and VLDL. Additionally, patients with T2DM have an increase in Apo C-III levels, a key regulator of TG rich lipoprotein clearance. Glucose stimulates and insulin suppresses Apo C-III expression;
