Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


chylomicrons and VLDL. Additionally, patients with T2DM have an increase in Apo C-III levels, a key regulator of TG rich lipoprotein clearance. Glucose stimulates and insulin suppresses Apo C-III expression; thus, diabetes with hyperglycemia and either insulin deficiency or insulin resistance contribute to an increase in Apo C-III. Apo C-III is an inhibitor of lipoprotein lipase activity and thereby reduces the clearance of TG rich lipoproteins. In addition, Apo C-III also inhibits the cellular uptake of lipoproteins. Studies have shown that loss of function mutations in Apo C-III lead to lower serum TG levels and a reduced risk of ASCVD ( 147 , 148 ). Interestingly, inhibition of Apo C-III expression results in a decrease in serum TG levels even in patients deficient in lipoprotein lipase, indicating that the ability of Apo C-III to modulate serum TG levels is not dependent solely on regulating lipoprotein lipase activity ( 149 ). Lastly, insulin resistance is associated with an increase in Angptl3, an inhibitor of LPL ( 150 ). Thus, in patients with diabetes, a decrease in clearance of TG rich lipoproteins also contributes to the elevation in serum triglyceride levels. Mechanism for the Increase in Small Dense LDL and Decrease in HDL The elevation in TG rich lipoproteins in turn has effects on other lipoproteins. Specifically, cholesterol ester transfer protein (CETP) mediates the exchange of TG from TG rich VLDL and chylomicrons to LDL and HDL. The increase in TG rich lipoproteins per se leads to an increase in CETP mediated exchange, increasing the TG content of both LDL and HDL. The TG on LDL and HDL is then hydrolyzed by hepatic lipase and lipoprotein lipase leading to the production of small dense LDL and small HDL. Notably hepatic lipase activity is increased in patients with T2DM, which will also facilitate the removal of TG from LDL and HDL resulting in small lipoprotein particles. The affinity of Apo A-I for small HDL particles is reduced, leading to the disassociation of Apo A-I, which in turn leads to the accelerated clearance and breakdown of Apo A-I by the kidneys. Additionally, the production of Apo A-I may be reduced in patients with diabetes. High glucose levels can activate ChREBP and this transcription factor inhibits Apo A-I expression. Furthermore, insulin stimulates Apo A-I expression and a reduction in insulin activity due to insulin resistance or decreased insulin levels may also lead to a decrease
