Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


lipid metabolism ( 151 , 152 ). The pro-inflammatory cytokines, TNF and IL-1, decrease the expression of lipoprotein lipase and increase the expression of angiopoietin like protein 4, an inhibitor of lipoprotein lipase. Together these changes decrease lipoprotein lipase activity, thereby delaying the clearance of TG rich lipoproteins. In addition, pro-inflammatory cytokines stimulate lipolysis in adipocytes increasing circulating free fatty acid levels, which will provide substrate for hepatic TG synthesis. In the liver, pro-inflammatory cytokines stimulate de novo fatty acid and TG synthesis. These alterations will lead to the increased production and secretion of VLDL. Thus, increases in the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines will stimulate the production of TG rich lipoproteins and delay the clearance of TG rich lipoproteins, which together will contribute to the increase in serum TG that occurs in obese patients. Obesity and the increase in pro-inflammatory cytokines may also affect HDL-C levels ( 153 - 155 ). First, pro-inflammatory cytokines inhibit the production of Apo A-I, the main protein constituent of HDL. Second, in many tissues pro-inflammatory cytokines decrease the expression of ABCA1 and ABCG1, which will lead to a decrease in the efflux of phospholipids and cholesterol from the cell to HDL decreasing the formation of mature HDL. Third, pro-inflammatory cytokines inhibit the production and activity of LCAT, which will limit the conversion of cholesterol to cholesterol esters in HDL. This conversion step is required for the formation of a normal spherical HDL particle and is crucial for the ability of HDL to increase the efflux of cholesterol from cells (including macrophages). Together these effects may lead to a decrease in HDL-C levels and a decrease in reverse cholesterol transport. Reverse cholesterol transport plays an important role in preventing cholesterol accumulation in macrophages and thereby reduces atherosclerosis. Inflammation also decreases other important functions of HDL, such as its ability to prevent LDL oxidation ( 156 ). This reduction in the ability of HDL to protect from oxidation may be mediated in part by inflammation inducing lower levels of the enzyme paraoxonase, which is commonly seen in patients with diabetes ( 151 , 157 ). In parallel inflammation increases the oxidation of LDL and the amount of small dense LDL that is more susceptible to oxidation. Role of Adipokines Adipokines, such as leptin, adiponectin, and resistin, regulate lipid metabolism and the levels are altered in obese patients. Obesity increases serum leptin levels and leptin stimulates lipolysis
