Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


Role of Adipokines Adipokines, such as leptin, adiponectin, and resistin, regulate lipid metabolism and the levels are altered in obese patients. Obesity increases serum leptin levels and leptin stimulates lipolysis in adipocytes which will increase serum free fatty acid levels ( 158 ). The circulating levels of adiponectin are decreased in subjects who are obese ( 159 ). Decreased adiponectin levels are associated with elevations in serum TG levels and decreases in HDL-C levels ( 159 ). This association is thought to be causal as studies in mice have shown that overexpressing adiponectin (transgenic mice) decreases TG and increases HDL-C levels while conversely, adiponectin knock-out mice have increased TG and decreased HDL-C levels ( 159 ). The adiponectin induced decrease in TG levels is mediated by an increased catabolism of TG rich lipoproteins due to an increase in lipoprotein lipase activity and a decrease Apo C-III, an inhibitor of lipoprotein lipase ( 159 ). The increase in HDL-C levels induced by adiponectin is mediated by an increase in hepatic Apo A-I and ABCA1, which results in the increased production of HDL particles ( 159 ). Resistin is increased in subjects who are obese and the levels of resistin directly correlate with plasma TG levels ( 160 ). Moreover, resistin has been shown to stimulate hepatic VLDL production and secretion due to an increase in the synthesis of Apo B, TG, and cholesterol ( 160 , 161 ). Finally, resistin is associated with a decrease in HDL-C and Apo A-I levels ( 160 ). EFFECT OF LIPID LOWERING ON ASCVD EVENTS IN PATIENTS WITH DIABETES Monotherapy Studies STATINS The Cholesterol Treatment Trialists analyzed data from 18,686 subjects with diabetes (mostly T2DM) from 14 randomized trials ( 162 ). In the statin treated group there was a 9% decrease in all-cause mortality, a 13% decrease in vascular mortality, and a 21% decrease in major vascular events per 39mg/dL (1mmol/L) reduction in LDL-C. The beneficial effect of statin therapy was seen in both primary and secondary prevention patients. The effect of statin treatment on cardiovascular events in patients with diabetes was similar to that seen in non-diabetic subjects. Thus, these studies indicate that statins are beneficial in reducing ASCVD in patients with diabetes. Because of the large number of patients with diabetes included in the Heart Protection Study (HPS) and CARDS these two studies will be discussed in greater depth. The HPS was
