Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


Because of the large number of patients with diabetes included in the Heart Protection Study (HPS) and CARDS these two studies will be discussed in greater depth. The HPS was a double-blind randomized trial that focused on patients at high risk for the development of cardiovascular events, including patients with a history of MIs, other atherosclerotic lesions, diabetes, and/or hypertension ( 163 , 164 ). Patients were between 40 and 80 years of age and had to have total serum cholesterol levels greater than 135mg/dL (thus very few patients were excluded because they did not have a high enough cholesterol level). The major strength of this trial was the large number of patients studied (>20,000). The diabetes subgroup included 5,963 subjects and thus was as large as many other prevention trials. The study was a 2x2 study design comparing simvastatin 40mg a day vs. placebo and anti-oxidant vitamins (vitamin E 600mg, vitamin C 250mg, and beta-carotene 20mg) vs. placebo and lasted approximately 5 years. Analysis of the group randomized to the anti-oxidant vitamins revealed no beneficial or harmful effects. In contrast, simvastatin therapy (40mg per day) reduced cardiovascular events, including MIs and strokes, by approximately 25% in all participants and to a similar degree in the diabetic subjects (total ASCVD reduced 27%, coronary mortality 20%, MI 37%, stroke 24%). Further analysis of the subjects with diabetes revealed that the reduction in cardiovascular events with statin therapy was similar in individuals with diabetes diagnosed for a short duration (<6 years) and for a long duration (>13 years). Similarly, subjects with diabetes in good control (HbA1c <7%) and those not in ideal control (HbA1c >7%) also benefited to a similar degree with statin therapy. Moreover, both T1DM and T2DM patients had a comparable reduction in ASCVD with simvastatin therapy. The decrease in cardiovascular events in patients with T1DM was not statistically significant because of the small number of subjects. Nevertheless, this is the only trial that included patients with T1DM and suggests that patients with T1DM will benefit from statin therapy similar to T2DM. In general, statin therapy reduced ASCVD in all subgroups of subjects with diabetes (females, males, older age, renal disease, hypertension, high TG, low HDL, ASA therapy, etc.) i.e., statin therapy benefits all patients with diabetes (note this study did not include patients with end stage renal disease but other studies have failed to show benefits of statin therapy
