Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


considerably lower in the atorvastatin treated group (pravastatin LDL= 110mg/dL vs. atorvastatin LDL= 79mg/dL). Most importantly, when one analyzed the change in atheroma volume determined after 18 months of therapy using intravascular ultrasound, the group treated aggressively with atorvastatin had a much lower progression rate than the group treated with pravastatin. Compared with baseline values, patients treated with atorvastatin had no change in atheroma burden (there was a very slight regression of lesions), whereas patients treated with pravastatin showed progression of lesions. When one compares the extent of the reduction in LDL-C to the change in atheroma volume, a 50% reduction in LDL (LDL-C levels of approximately 75mg/dL) resulted in the absence of lesion progression. This study suggests that lowering the LDL-C to levels well below 100mg/dL is required to prevent disease progression as measured by intravascular ultrasound. Other studies, such as Asteroid, have shown that marked reductions in LDL-C (in Asteroid the mean LDL-C levels were 61mg/dL) can also result in the regression of coronary artery atherosclerosis determined by intravascular ultrasound measurements ( 168 ). Additionally, the Saturn trial demonstrated that aggressive lipid lowering with either atorvastatin 80mg or rosuvastatin 40mg would induce regression of coronary artery atherosclerosis to a similar degree in patients with and without diabetes if the LDL-C levels were reduced to less than 70mg/dL ( 169 ). Together these trials indicate that aggressive lowering of LDL-C levels to below 70mg/dL can induce regression of atherosclerotic lesions. The Prove-It trial determined in patients recently hospitalized for an acute coronary syndrome whether aggressively lowering of LDL-C with atorvastatin 80mg per day vs. moderate LDL-C lowering with pravastatin 40mg per day would have a similar effect on cardiovascular end points such as death, MI, documented unstable angina requiring hospitalization, revascularization, or stroke ( 170 , 171 ). In this trial, approximately 18% of the patients were diabetic. As expected, the on-treatment LDL-C levels were significantly lower in patients aggressively treated with atorvastatin compared to the moderate treated pravastatin group (atorvastatin LDL-C = approximately 62 vs. pravastatin LDL-C = approximately 95mg/dL). Of great significance, death or major cardiovascular events was reduced by 16% over the two years of the study in the group aggressively treated with atorvastatin. Moreover, the risk reduction in the patients with diabetes in the aggressive treatment group was similar to that observed in non-diabetics. In the treating to new targets trial (TNT) patients with stable
