Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


risk reduction in the patients with diabetes in the aggressive treatment group was similar to that observed in non-diabetics. In the treating to new targets trial (TNT) patients with stable coronary heart disease and LDL-C levels less than 130mg/dL were randomized to either 10mg or 80mg atorvastatin and followed for an average of 4.9 years ( 172 , 173 ). Approximately 15% of the patients had diabetes. As expected, LDL-C levels were lowered to a greater extent in the patients treated with 80mg atorvastatin than with 10mg atorvastatin (77mg/dL vs. 101mg/dL). Impressively, the occurrence of major cardiovascular events was reduced by 22% in the group treated with atorvastatin 80mg (p<0.001). In the patients with diabetes events were reduced by 25% in the high dose statin group. Finally, the IDEAL trial was a randomized study that compared atorvastatin 80mg vs. simvastatin 20-40mg in 8,888 patients with a history of ASCVD ( 174 ). Approximately 12% of the patients had diabetes. As expected, LDL-C levels were reduced to a greater extent in the atorvastatin treated group than the simvastatin treated group (approximately 81mg/dL vs. 104mg/dL). Once again, the greater reduction in LDL-C levels was associated with a greater reduction in cardiovascular events. Specifically, major coronary events defined as coronary death, nonfatal MI, or cardiac arrest was reduced by 11% (p=0.07), while nonfatal acute MI were reduced by 17% (p=0.02). Combining the results of the Heart Protection Study, CARDS, Reversal, Saturn, Asteroid, Prove-It, TNT, and IDEAL leads one to the conclusion that aggressive lowering of LDL-C with statin therapy will be beneficial and suggests that in high-risk patients lowering the LDL to levels well below 100mg/dL is desirable. Moreover, the Cholesterol Treatment Trialists reviewed five trials with 39,612 subjects that were designed to determine the effect of usual vs. aggressive reductions in LDL-C ( 175 ). They reported that intensive control (approximately a 19mg/dL difference in LDL-C) resulted in a 15% decrease in major vascular events, a 13% reduction in coronary death or non-fatal MI, a 19% decrease in coronary revascularization, and a 16% decrease in strokes. As will be discussed below treatment guidelines reflect the results of these studies. Additionally, as described in detail below, studies of the addition of either ezetimibe or PCSK9 inhibitors to statins further demonstrates that aggressive lowering of LDL-C levels further reduces cardiovascular events FIBRATES The beneficial effect of monotherapy with fibrates (e.g., gemfibrozil, fenofibrate) on ASCVD
