Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


or PCSK9 inhibitors to statins further demonstrates that aggressive lowering of LDL-C levels further reduces cardiovascular events FIBRATES The beneficial effect of monotherapy with fibrates (e.g., gemfibrozil, fenofibrate) on ASCVD in patients with diabetes is shown in Table 5. The results of these randomized trials suggest that monotherapy with this class of drug might reduce cardiovascular events in patients with diabetes, but the data is not very robust. The largest trial was the Field Trial ( 176 ). In this trial, 9,795 patients with T2DM between the ages of 50 and 75 not taking statin therapy were randomized to fenofibrate or placebo and followed for approximately 5 years. Fenofibrate therapy resulted in a 12% decrease in LDL-C, a 29% decrease in TG, and a 5% increase in HDL-C levels. The primary outcome was coronary events (coronary heart disease death and non-fatal MI), which were reduced by 11% in the fenofibrate group but did not reach statistical significance (p= 0.16). However, there was a 24% decrease in non-fatal MI in the fenofibrate treated group (p=0.01) and a non-significant increase in coronary heart disease mortality. Total ASCVD events (coronary events plus stroke and coronary or carotid revascularization) were reduced 11% (p=0.035). These beneficial effects of fenofibrate therapy on ASCVD were observed in patients without a previous history of ASCVD. In patients with a previous history of ASCVD no benefits were observed. Additionally, the beneficial effect of fenofibrate therapy was seen only in those subjects less than 65 years of age. The beneficial effects of fenofibrate in this study may have been muted by the increased use of statins in the placebo group, which reduced the differences in lipid levels between the placebo and fenofibrate groups. If one adjusted for the addition of lipid-lowering therapy, fenofibrate reduced the risk of coronary heart disease events by 19% (p=0.01) and of total ASCVD events by 15% (p=0.004). Thus, while the results of this large trial are intriguing they do not clearly show a benefit of fibrate therapy reducing ASCVD events. The number of patients with diabetes in the other fibrate trials are relatively small (table 5). While the results of the monotherapy fibrate trials have been very heterogeneous it should be noted that fibrate trials in patients with elevated TG levels have reported a greater reduction of cardiovascular events ( 177 ). Additionally, subgroup analysis of several fibrate trials has also suggested that the benefit
