Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


in patients with elevated TG levels have reported a greater reduction of cardiovascular events ( 177 ). Additionally, subgroup analysis of several fibrate trials has also suggested that the benefit of fibrates was greatest in patients with elevated TG levels ( 177 , 178 ). The mechanism by which fibrates may reduce cardiovascular events is unclear. These drugs lower serum TG levels and increase HDL-C, but it should be recognized that the beneficial effects of fibrates could be due to other actions of these drugs. Specifically, these drugs activate the nuclear hormone receptor PPAR alpha, which is present in the cells that comprise the atherosclerotic lesions, and it is possible that these compounds directly affect lesion formation and development. In addition, fibrates are anti-inflammatory. In fact, analysis of the VA-HIT study suggested that much of the benefit of fibrate therapy was not due to changes in serum lipoprotein levels ( 179 , 180 ). To summarize, while in general the studies suggest that monotherapy with fibrates may reduce ASCVD in patients with diabetes, the results are not very robust or consistent as seen in the statin trials. Of note fibrate therapy appeared to be most effective in patients with increased TG levels and decreased HDL levels, a lipid profile typically seen in patients with T2DM. However, as will be presented in detail below (combination therapy section) the addition of fibrates to statins does not reduce ASCVD. Table 5. Effect of Fibrate Monotherapy on Cardiovascular Outcomes View in own window Study Drug #Diabetic subjects %Decrease controls % Decrease diabetics Helsinki Heart Study ( 181 ) Gemfibrozil 135 34 60* VA-HIT ( 180 ) Gemfibrozil 620 24 24 DIAS ( 182 ) Fenofibrate 418 - 23* Sendcap ( 183 ) Bezafibrate 164 - 70 Field ( 176 ) Fenofibrate 9795 - 11* * Not statistically significant NIACIN A single randomized trial, the Coronary Drug Project, has examined the effect of niacin monotherapy on cardiovascular outcomes ( 184 ). This trial was carried out from 1966 to 1974 (before the introduction of statin therapy) in men with a history of a prior MI and demonstrated that niacin therapy reduced cardiovascular events. The results of this study were re-analyzed to determine the effect of niacin therapy in subjects with varying baseline fasting and 1-hour post meal glucose levels ( 185 ). It was noted that 6 years of niacin therapy reduced the risk of
