Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


niacin therapy in subjects with varying baseline fasting and 1-hour post meal glucose levels ( 185 ). It was noted that 6 years of niacin therapy reduced the risk of coronary heart disease death or nonfatal MI by approximately 15-25% regardless of baseline fasting or 1-hour post glucose challenge glucose levels. Particularly notable is that reductions in events were seen in the subjects who had a fasting glucose level >126mg/dL or 1-hour glucose levels >220mg/dL (i.e., patients with diabetes). Thus, based on this single study, niacin monotherapy reduces cardiovascular events both in normal subjects and patients with diabetes. However, as will be presented in detail below (combination therapy section) the addition of niacin to statins does not reduce ASCVD. EZETIMIBE A multicenter, randomized trial in Japan examined the efficacy of ezetimibe in patients aged ≥75 years with elevated LDL-C (≥140 mg/dL) without a history of coronary artery disease who were not taking lipid lowering drugs ( 186 ). Patients were randomized to ezetimibe (n=1716) or usual care (n=1695) and followed for 4.1 years. The primary outcome was a composite of sudden cardiac death, MI, coronary revascularization, or stroke. In the ezetimibe group LDL-C was decreased by 25.9% and non-HDL-C by 23.1% while in the usual care group LDL-C was decreased by 18.5% and non-HDL-C by 16.5% (p<0.001 for both lipid parameters). By the end of the trial 9.6% of the patients in the usual care group and 2.1% of the ezetimibe group were taking statins. Ezetimibe reduced the incidence of the primary outcome by 34% (HR 0.66; P=0.002). Additionally, composite cardiac events were reduced by 60% (HR 0.60; P=0.039) and coronary revascularization by 62% (HR 0.38; P=0.007) in the ezetimibe group vs. the control group. There was no difference in the incidence of stroke or all-cause mortality between the groups. Approximately 25% of the patients in this trial had diabetes and the beneficial effects were similar in the diabetic and non-diabetic subjects. It should be noted that the reduction in cardiovascular events was much greater than one would expect based on the absolute difference in LDL-C levels (121mg/dL in ezetimibe group vs. 132mg/dL). As stated by the authors “Given the open-label nature of the trial, its premature termination, and issues with follow-up, the magnitude of benefit observed should be interpreted with caution.” Nevertheless, this study provides suggestive evidence that ezetimibe monotherapy may reduce cardiovascular events in patients with diabetes. BEMPEDOIC
