Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


with follow-up, the magnitude of benefit observed should be interpreted with caution.” Nevertheless, this study provides suggestive evidence that ezetimibe monotherapy may reduce cardiovascular events in patients with diabetes. BEMPEDOIC ACID A multicenter study of bempedoic acid in statin intolerant patients with ASCVD or at high risk for ASCVD was recently reported ( 187 ). Patients were randomized to bempedoic acid, 180 mg daily (n=6992), or placebo (n=6978) and the primary end point was death from cardiovascular causes, nonfatal MI, nonfatal stroke, or coronary revascularization. Bempedoic acid therapy reduced LDL-C and hsCRP levels by approximately 22% compared to the placebo group. The primary composite endpoint was reduced by 13% in the bempedoic acid group (HR 0.87; 95% CI, 0.79 to 0.96; P = 0.004). The four individual components of the primary endpoint were also significantly reduced in the bempedoic acid treatment group. In this trial approximately 45% of the patients had diabetes. In an analysis of the patients without clinical ASCVD, (i.e., primary prevention) (bempedoic acid n = 2100 or placebo n = 2106), there was a 30% decrease in cardiovascular events (HR 0.70: 95% CI, 0.55-0.89; P = .002) ( 188 ). In this subgroup analysis 66% of the patients had diabetes. This study clearly indicates that monotherapy with bempedoic acid will reduce cardiovascular events. OTHER DRUGS With regard to PCSK9 inhibitors and bile acid sequestrants there have been no randomized monotherapy studies that have examined the effect of these drugs on cardiovascular end points in subjects with diabetes. In non-diabetic subjects, monotherapy with bile acid sequestrants have reduced cardiovascular events ( 102 , 103 ). Since bile acid sequestrants have a similar beneficial impact on serum lipid levels in diabetic and non-diabetic subjects one would anticipate that these drugs would also result in a reduction in events in the diabetic population. Additionally, bile acid sequestrants improve glycemic control ( 101 ). However, bile acid sequestrants can raise TG levels and therefore must be used with caution in hypertriglyceridemic patients. There are no outcome studies with PCSK9 inhibitor monotherapy in patients with diabetes but given that these drugs reduce LDL-C levels and in combination with statins reduce cardiovascular events one would anticipate that PCSK9 inhibitor monotherapy will also reduce cardiovascular events. Combination Therapy The studies with statins have been so impressive that most patients with diabetes over the age of 40 are routinely treated with statin therapy and younger
