Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


cardiovascular events. Combination Therapy The studies with statins have been so impressive that most patients with diabetes over the age of 40 are routinely treated with statin therapy and younger patients with diabetes at high risk for ASCVD are also typically on statin therapy (see Current Guidelines Section). Therefore, a key issue is whether the addition of other lipid lowering drugs to statins will result in a further reduction in cardiovascular events. A difficulty with such studies is that the reduction in cardiovascular events induced by statin therapy is so robust that very large trials may be required to see additional benefit. STATINS + FIBRATES The ACCORD-LIPID trial was designed to determine if the addition of fenofibrate to aggressive statin therapy would result in a further reduction in ASCVD in patients with T2DM ( 189 ). In this trial, 5,518 patients on statin therapy were randomized to placebo or fenofibrate therapy. The patients had diabetes for approximately 10 years and either had pre-existing ASCVD or were at high risk for developing ASCVD. During the trial, LDL-C levels were approximately 80mg/dL in both groups. There was only a small difference in HDL-C with the fenofibrate groups having a mean HDL-C of 41.2mg/dL while the control group had an HDL-C of 40.5mg/dL. Differences in TG levels were somewhat more impressive with the fenofibrate group having a mean TG level of 122mg/dL while the control group had a TG level of 144mg/dL. First occurrence of nonfatal MI, nonfatal stroke, or death from cardiovascular causes was the primary outcome and there was no statistical difference between the fenofibrate treated group and the placebo group. Additionally, there were also no statistically significant differences between the groups with regards to any of the secondary outcome measures of ASCVD. Of note, the addition of fenofibrate to statin therapy did not result in an increase in either muscle or liver side effects. On further analysis, there was a possible benefit of fenofibrate therapy in the patients in whom the baseline TG levels were elevated (>204mg/dL) and HDL-C levels decreased (<34mg/dL). Finally, similar to what has been reported in other trials, fenofibrate had beneficial effects on the progression of microvascular disease ( 190 , 191 ). The PROMINENT trial studied the effect of pemafibrate, a new selective PPAR-alpha activator, in reducing cardiovascular outcomes in 10,497 patients (66.9% with previous ASCVD) with diabetes ( 192 ). This was a double-blind,
