Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


studied the effect of pemafibrate, a new selective PPAR-alpha activator, in reducing cardiovascular outcomes in 10,497 patients (66.9% with previous ASCVD) with diabetes ( 192 ). This was a double-blind, randomized, controlled trial, in patients with T2DM, with mild-to-moderate hypertriglyceridemia (TG level, 200 to 499 mg/dL), LDL-C < 100mg/dL, and HDL-C levels < 40 mg/dL) who received either pemafibrate (0.2-mg tablets twice daily) or placebo in addition to statin therapy (96% on statins). The primary end point was a composite of nonfatal MI, ischemic stroke, coronary revascularization, or death from cardiovascular causes. Baseline fasting TG was 271 mg/dL, HDL-C 33 mg/dL, and LDL-C 78 mg/dL. Compared with placebo, pemafibrate decreased TG by 26.2%, while HDL-C increased 5.1% and LDL-C increased 12.3%. Notably non-HDL-C levels were unchanged and Apo B levels increased 4.8%. The primary endpoint was similar in the pemafibrate and placebo group (HR 1.03; 95% CI 0.91 to 1.15). The increase in LDL-C and Apo B levels likely account for the failure to reduce cardiovascular events. Taken together the ACCORD study and the PROINENT trial indicate that the addition of fibrate therapy to statin therapy will not result in a reduction in cardiovascular events in patients with diabetes. STATIN + NIACIN The AIM-HIGH trial was designed to determine if the addition of Niaspan to aggressive statin therapy would result in a further reduction in cardiovascular events in patients with pre-existing ASCVD ( 193 ). In this trial 3,314 patients were randomized to Niaspan vs. placebo. Approximately 33% of the patients had diabetes. On trial, LDL-C levels were in the 60-70mg/dL range in both groups. As expected, HDL-C levels were increased in the Niaspan treated group (approximately 44mg/dL vs. 38mg/dL), while TG were decreased (approximately 121mg/dL vs. 155mg/dL). However, there were no differences in the primary endpoint between the control and Niaspan treated groups (Primary endpoint consisted of the first event of death from coronary heart disease, nonfatal MI, ischemic stroke, hospitalization for an acute coronary syndrome, or symptom-driven coronary or cerebral revascularization). There were also no differences in secondary endpoints except for a possible increase in strokes in the Niaspan treated group. The addition of Niaspan to statin therapy did not result in a significant increase in either muscle or liver toxicity. Thus, this study does not provide support for the addition of niacin to statins. However, it should be recognized that this was a relatively small study and
