Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


or liver toxicity. Thus, this study does not provide support for the addition of niacin to statins. However, it should be recognized that this was a relatively small study and a considerable number of patients stopped taking the Niaspan during the course of the study (25.4% of patients discontinued Niaspan therapy). In addition, most of the patients included in this study did not have a lipid profile that one would typically consider treating with niacin therapy. In the subset of patients with TG > 198mg/dL and HDL-C < 33mg/dL niacin showed a trend towards benefit (hazard ratio 0.74; p=0.073), suggesting that if the appropriate patient population was studied the results may have been positive ( 194 ). HPS 2 Thrive also studied the effect of niacin added to statin therapy ( 195 ). This trial utilized extended-release niacin combined with laropiprant, a prostaglandin D 2 receptor antagonist that reduces the flushing side effect of niacin treatment. HPS 2 Thrive was a very large trial with over 25,000 patients randomized to either niacin therapy or placebo. Approximately 32% of the patients in this trial had diabetes. The LDL-C level was 63mg/dL, the HDL-C 44mg/dL, and the TG 125mg/dL at baseline. As expected, niacin therapy resulted in a modest reduction in LDL-C (10mg/dL), a modest increase in HDL-C (6mg/dL), and a larger reduction in TG (33mg/dL). However, despite these lipid changes there were no significant differences in major cardiovascular events between the niacin and control group (risk ratio 0.96 CI 0.90- 1.03). It is unknown whether laropiprant, the prostaglandin D 2 receptor antagonist, might have effects that worsen atherosclerosis and increase event rates. Similar to the AIM-HIGH study, the group of patients included in the HPS 2 Thrive trial were not the ideal patient population to test for the beneficial effects of niacin treatment added to statin therapy. Ideally, patients with high TG and high non-HDL-C levels coupled with low HDL-C levels should be studied. Nevertheless, the results of the AIM-HIGH and HPS 2 Thrive trials do not provide support for the addition of niacin to statin therapy in patients with diabetes. STATIN + EZETIMIBE The IMPROVE-IT trial tested whether the addition of ezetimibe to statin therapy would provide an additional beneficial effect in patients with the acute coronary syndrome ( 196 ). This was a large trial with over 18,000 patients randomized to statin therapy vs. statin therapy + ezetimibe. Approximately
