Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


in 968 patients presenting for coronary angiography. Approximately 20-21% of the patients had diabetes. The primary efficacy measure was the change in percent atheroma volume (PAV) from baseline to week 78, measured by serial intravascular ultrasonography (IVUS) imaging. Secondary efficacy measures included change in normalized total atheroma volume (TAV) and percentage of patients demonstrating plaque regression. As expected, there was a marked decrease in LDL-C levels in the evolocumab group (Placebo 93mg/dL vs. evolocumab 37mg/dL; p<0.001). PAV increased 0.05% with placebo and decreased 0.95% with evolocumab (P < .001) while TAV decreased 0.9 mm3 with placebo and 5.8 mm3 with evolocumab (P < .001). There was a linear relationship between achieved LDL-C and change in PAV (i.e., the lower the LDL-C the greater the regression in atheroma volume down to an LDL-C of 20mg/dL). Additionally, evolocumab induced plaque regression in a greater percentage of patients than placebo (64.3% vs 47.3%; P < .001 for PAV and 61.5% vs 48.9%; P < .001 for TAV). The results in the patients with diabetes were similar to the non-diabetic patients. Taken together these trials demonstrate that further lowering LDL-C levels with PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies in patients taking statins will have beneficial effects on ASCVD outcomes. A study of the effect of inclisiran on ASCVD endpoints is currently in progress. The results of the ezetimibe and PCSK9 trials have several important implications. First, it demonstrates that combination therapy may have benefits above and beyond statin therapy alone. Second, it provides further support for the hypothesis that lowering LDL per se will reduce cardiovascular events. Third, it suggests that lowering LDL levels to much lower levels than usual will have significant benefits. These results have implications for determining goals of therapy. STATINS + LOW DOSE OMEGA-3-FATTY ACIDS ORIGIN was a double-blind study in 12,536 patients at high risk for ASCVD who had impaired fasting glucose, impaired glucose tolerance, or diabetes ( 207 ). Patients were randomized to receive a 1-gram capsule containing at least 900mg of ethyl esters of omega-3 fatty acids (EPA 465mg and DHA 375mg) or placebo for approximately 6 years. Greater than 50% of the patients were on statin therapy. The primary outcome was death from cardiovascular causes. TG levels were reduced by 14.5mg/dL in the group receiving omega-3-fatty acids compared to the placebo group (P<0.001), without a significant effect on other lipids. The incidence of the primary outcome was not significantly
