Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


in women), and either ASCVD or high risk for ASCVD ( 214 ). The primary outcome was major atherosclerotic cardiovascular events (cardiovascular death, MI, stroke, coronary revascularization or hospitalization for unstable angina). The primary end point occurred in 785 patients (12.0%) treated with omega-3 CA vs 795 (12.2%) treated with corn oil (HR, 0.99: [95% CI, 0.90-1.09]; P = .84) ( 215 ). Thus, in contrast to EPA alone this omega-3-fatty acid formulation failed to show benefits despite reducing TG levels (18% decrease) to a similar degree as in the REDUCE-IT trial. Whether EPA has special properties that resulted in the reduction in cardiovascular events in the REDUCE-IT trial or there were flaws in the trial design (the use of mineral oil as the placebo) is uncertain and debated. It should be noted that in the REDUCE-IT trial LDL-C and non-HDL-C levels were increased by approximately 10% (LDL-C by approximately 9mg/dL and non-HDL-C by approximately 10mg/dL) in the mineral oil placebo group ( 212 ). Additionally, Apo B levels were increased by 7% (6mg/dL) by mineral oil ( 212 ). Finally, an increase in hsCRP (20-30%) and other biomarkers of atherosclerosis (oxidized LDL-C, IL-6, IL-1 beta, and lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2) were noted in the mineral oil group ( 212 , 216 ). In the STRENGTH trial there were no differences in LDL-C, Non-HDL-C, HDL-C, Apo B, or hsCRP levels between the treated vs. placebo groups ( 215 ). Whether EPA has special properties compared to DHA leading to a reduction in cardiovascular events or the mineral oil placebo resulted in adverse changes increasing ASCVD in the placebo resulting in an artifactual decrease in the EPA group is debated ( 217 , 218 ). Ideally, another large randomized cardiovascular trial with EPA ethyl ester (icosapent ethyl) (Vascepa) using a placebo other than mineral oil would resolve this controversy. CURRENT GUIDELINES FOR SERUM LIPIDS There are several different guidelines for treating lipids in patients with diabetes. While they all focus on lowering LDL-C there are differences between the various guidelines. American Diabetes Association Guidelines The 2023 American Diabetes Association (ADA) recommends that adult patients with diabetes have their lipid profile determined at the time of diabetes diagnosis and at least every 5 years thereafter or more frequently if indicated ( 219 ). This profile includes total cholesterol, HDL-C, TG, and calculated LDL-C. A lipid panel should be obtained immediately prior to initiating
