Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


years thereafter or more frequently if indicated ( 219 ). This profile includes total cholesterol, HDL-C, TG, and calculated LDL-C. A lipid panel should be obtained immediately prior to initiating statin therapy. Once a patient is on statin therapy testing should be carried out 4-12 weeks after initiating therapy and annually thereafter to monitor adherence and efficacy. Lifestyle modifications including a reduction in saturated fat, trans fat, and cholesterol intake, weight loss if indicated, an increase in omega-3-fatty acids, viscous fiber, and plant stanols /sterol intake, and increased physical activity is indicated in all patients with diabetes. A focus on a Mediterranean style diet or Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) diet should be encouraged. In patients with elevated TG levels glycemic control is beneficial and dietary changes and lifestyle changes including weight loss and abstinence from alcohol should be undertaken. Secondary disorders and medications that raise TG levels should be evaluated. Optimize glycemic control to improve TG and HDL-C levels. The recommendations for lipid lowering therapy are shown in table 6 . If one follows these recommendations almost all patients with diabetes over the age of 40 will be on statin therapy and many under the age of 40 will also be treated with statins. The addition of ezetimibe should be considered to further lower LDL-C levels in high-risk primary prevention patients. In very high-risk patients with ASCVD if the LDL-C level on statin therapy is greater than 70mg/dL the use of ezetimibe or a PCSK9 inhibitor should be considered. The use of fibrates or niacin with statins were generally not recommended as there is no evidence of benefit. However, in patients with ASCVD or other cardiovascular risk factors on a statin with controlled LDL-C but elevated TG levels (135-499mg/dL) the addition of icosapent ethyl can be considered. Finally, in patients with fasting TG levels greater than 500mg/dL an evaluation for secondary causes of hypertriglyceridemia should be initiated and consideration of drug therapy to reduce the risk of pancreatitis. Table 6. ADA Recommendations for Lipid Lowering Therapy View in own window Primary Prevention Age 20-39: With additional risk factors may be reasonable to initiate statin therapy Age 40-75: Use moderate-intensity statin therapy* in addition to lifestyle therapy Age 40-75: If at higher cardiovascular risk, including those with one or more ASCVD risk factors, it is recommended to use high intensity statin therapy to reduce LDL cholesterol by >50% and
