Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


If at higher cardiovascular risk, including those with one or more ASCVD risk factors, it is recommended to use high intensity statin therapy to reduce LDL cholesterol by >50% and to target an LDL-C <70 mg/dL Age 40-75: If at higher cardiovascular risk, especially those with multiple ASCVD risk factors and an LDL-C >70 mg/dL, it may be reasonable to add ezetimibe or a PCSK9 inhibitor to maximum tolerated statin therapy Age > 75: Initiating moderate intensity statin therapy is reasonable after discussion and in patient already on statin therapy it is reasonable to continue statin therapy Secondary Prevention All ages: High intensity statin therapy**/maximally tolerated stain For people with diabetes and ASCVD, treatment with high intensity statin therapy is recommended to target an LDL-C reduction of >50% and an LDL-C l goal of <55 mg/dL. Addition of ezetimibe or a PCSK9 inhibitor is recommended if this goal is not achieved * Moderate intensity statin- atorvastatin 10-20mg, rosuvastatin 5-10mg, simvastatin 20-40mg, pravastatin 40-80mg, lovastatin 40mg, Fluvastatin XL 80mg, pitavastatin 3-4mg. ** High Intensity statin- atorvastatin 40-80mg, rosuvastatin 20-40mg. American College of Cardiology and American Heart Association Guidelines The 2018 American College of Cardiology and American Heart Association (ACC/AHA) guidelines recommend the following ( 220 ). “In patients 40 to 75 years of age with diabetes mellitus and LDL-C ≥70 mg/dL (≥1.8 mmol/L), start moderate-intensity statin therapy without calculating 10-year ASCVD risk. In patients with diabetes mellitus at higher risk, especially those with multiple risk factors or those 50 to 75 years of age, it is reasonable to use a high-intensity statin to reduce the LDL-C level by ≥50%.” In patients with diabetes and ASCVD they recommend “In patients with clinical ASCVD, reduce LDL-C with high-intensity statin therapy or maximally tolerated statin therapy. The more LDL-C is reduced on statin therapy, the greater will be subsequent risk reduction. Use a maximally tolerated statin to lower LDLC levels by ≥50%. In very high-risk ASCVD, use an LDL-C threshold of 70 mg/dL (1.8 mmol/L) to consider addition of non-statins to statin therapy. Very high-risk includes a history of multiple major ASCVD events or 1 major ASCVD event and multiple high-risk conditions. In very high-risk ASCVD patients, it is reasonable to add ezetimibe to maximally tolerated statin therapy when the LDL-C level remains ≥70 mg/dL (≥1.8 mmol/L). In patients at very high risk whose LDL-C level remains ≥70 mg/dL (≥1.8 mmol/L) on maximally tolerated
