Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


reductions in obesity are even more beneficial. It should be noted that many patients with diabetes may have substantial barriers to participating in exercise programs, such as comorbidities that limit exercise tolerance, risk of hypoglycemia, and presence of microvascular complications (visual impairment, neuropathy) that make exercise difficult. Diet is debated to a greater extent and for detailed information on nutrition therapy for adults with diabetes see the consensus report by the American Diabetes Association ( 228 ). Everyone agrees that weight loss in obese patients is essential ( 124 ). But how this can be achieved is hotly debated with many different "experts" advocating different dietary approaches. The wide diversity of approach is likely due to the failure of any approach to be effective in the long term for the majority of obese patients with diabetes. If successful, weight loss will decrease serum TG levels, increase HDL-C levels, and modestly reduce LDL-C ( 124 , 229 ). To reduce LDL-C levels, it is important that the diet decrease saturated fat, trans fatty acids, and cholesterol intake. Increasing soluble fiber is also helpful. It is debated whether a low fat, high complex carbohydrate diets vs. a high monounsaturated fat diet is ideal for obese patients with diabetes ( 124 ). One can find "experts" in favor of either of these approaches and there are pros and cons to each approach. It is essential to recognize that both approaches reduce simple sugars, saturated fat, trans fatty acids, and cholesterol intake. The high complex carbohydrate diet will increase serum TG levels in some patients and if the amount of fat in the diet is markedly reduced serum HDL-C levels may decrease. In obese patients, it has been postulated that a diet high in monounsaturated fats, because of the increase in caloric density, will lead to an increase in weight gain. Both diets reduce saturated fat and cholesterol intake that will result in reductions in LDL-C levels. Additionally, both diets also reduce trans-fatty acid intake, which will have a beneficial effect on LDL and HDL-C levels and simple sugars, which will have a beneficial effect on TG levels. Very high levels of TG (>1000mg/dL), require diets that are very low in fat. The available data do not indicate that any particular diet is best for inducing weight loss and it is essential to adapt the diet to fit the food preferences of the patient.
