Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


data do not indicate that any particular diet is best for inducing weight loss and it is essential to adapt the diet to fit the food preferences of the patient. Ultimately no weight loss diet will be successful if the patient cannot follow the diet for the long term and therefore the diet needs to be tailored to the specific preferences of the patient. For more detailed information on the effect of diet on lipid and lipoprotein levels and cardiovascular disease see the Endotext chapter “The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels” ( 229 ). While it is widely accepted that lifestyle changes will decrease ASCVD events it should be recognized that the Look Ahead trial failed to demonstrate a reduction in ASCVD events ( 230 ). In this trial, over 5,000 overweight or obese patients with T2DM were randomized to either an intensive lifestyle intervention group that promoted weight loss through decreased caloric intake and increased physical activity or to a group that received diabetes support and education (control group). After a median follow-up of 9.6 years there was no difference in cardiovascular events (hazard ratio in the intervention group, 0.95; 95% CI 0.83 to 1.09; P=0.51). A major limitation of this study was that while the weight difference between groups was impressive during the first year of the trial, over time the differences greatly narrowed such that at the end of the trial the intensive group had a 6.0% weight loss while the control group had a 3.5% weight loss. This very modest weight difference demonstrates the difficulty in sustaining long term lifestyle changes. Thus, while weight loss and diet therapy are likely to be beneficial in reducing cardiovascular events, in clinical practice they are seldom sufficient because long-term life style changes are very difficult for most patients to maintain. In contrast to the failure of lifestyle therapy in the Look Ahead trial to reduce cardiovascular events, the PREDIMED trial employing a Mediterranean diet (increased monounsaturated fats) did reduce the incidence of major ASCVD events ( 231 , 232 ). In this multicenter trial center trial, carried out in Spain, over 7,000 patients at high risk for developing ASCVD were randomized to three diets (primary prevention trial). A Mediterranean diet supplemented with extra-virgin olive oil, a Mediterranean diet supplemented with mixed nuts, or a control diet. Approximately 50% of the patients in this
