Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


diets (primary prevention trial). A Mediterranean diet supplemented with extra-virgin olive oil, a Mediterranean diet supplemented with mixed nuts, or a control diet. Approximately 50% of the patients in this trial had T2DM. In the patients assigned to the Mediterranean diets there was 29% decrease in the primary end point (MI, stroke, and death from ASCVD). Subgroup analysis demonstrated that the Mediterranean diet was equally beneficial in patients with and without diabetes. The Mediterranean diet resulted in only a small but significant increase in HDL-C levels and a small decrease in both LDL-C and TG levels, suggesting that the beneficial effects were not mediated by changes in lipids ( 233 ). The CORDIOPREV study was a single center randomized trial that compared a Mediterranean diet to a low-fat diet in 1,002 patients with ASCVD ( 234 ). Approximately 50% of the patients had diabetes. The Mediterranean diet contained a minimum of 35% of the calories as fat (22% monounsaturated fatty acids, 6% polyunsaturated fatty acids, and <10% saturated fat), 15% proteins, and a maximum of 50% carbohydrates while the low-fat diet contained less than 30% of total fat (<10% saturated fat, 12–14% monounsaturated fatty acids, and 6–8% polyunsaturated fatty acids), 15% protein, and a minimum of 55% carbohydrates. The risk of an ASCVD event was reduced by approximately 25-30% in the Mediterranean diet group. Whether these diets differed in their effects on fasting lipid levels is unknown. Finally, another secondary prevention trial of a Mediterranean diet has also demonstrated a reduction in cardiovascular events. The Lyon Diet Heart Study randomized 584 patients who had a MI within 6 months to a Mediterranean type diet vs usual diet ( 235 , 236 ). There was a marked reduction in events in the group of patients randomized to the Mediterranean diet (cardiac death and nonfatal MI rate was 4.07 per 100 patient years in the control diet vs. 1.24 in the Mediterranean diet; p<0.0001). Unfortunately, there is no indication of the number of patients with diabetes in the Lyon Diet Heart Study or whether patients with diabetes responded similar to the entire group. Lipid levels were similar in both groups in this trial ( 235 ). The results of these three randomized trials indicate that we should be encouraging our patients to follow a Mediterranean type diet. It is likely that the beneficial effects of the Mediterranean diet on ASCVD is mediated
