Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


trials indicate that we should be encouraging our patients to follow a Mediterranean type diet. It is likely that the beneficial effects of the Mediterranean diet on ASCVD is mediated by multiple mechanisms with alterations in lipid levels making only a minor contribution. For additional information on the effect of diets on lipid levels and ASCVD see the chapter entitled “The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels” in the Lipids and Lipoproteins section of Endotext ( 229 ). Bariatric surgery can have profound effects on weight and can result in marked improvements in lipid profiles with a decrease in TG and LDL-C and an increase in HDL-C ( 124 , 229 ) Additionally, observational studies have shown a decrease in cardiovascular events following bariatric surgery in patients with and without diabetes ( 237 - 241 ). For additional information see the chapter entitled “Obesity and Dyslipidemia” ( 124 ). Ethanol and simple sugars, in particular fructose, increase serum TG levels in susceptible patients. In patients with hypertriglyceridemia efforts should be made to reduce the intake of ethanol, simple sugars, and fructose ( 229 ). Lastly, in the past some "experts" advocated the addition of fish oil supplements to reduce cardiovascular events. However, both the Origin Trial and the ASCEND Trial did not demonstrate that fish oil supplements were beneficial in patients with T2DM or patients at high risk for the development of T2DM ( 207 , 208 ). It should be recognized that higher doses of fish oil are required to lower serum triglyceride levels (~ 3-4 grams of DHA/EPA per day) and are useful in treating patients with high TG levels ( 242 ). Most studies of fish oil supplements in patients with diabetes have demonstrated that this is a safe approach and that worsening of glycemic control does not occur in patients with diabetes treated with fish oil supplements ( 242 ). Additionally, in some patient's high dose fish oil increases LDL-C levels, particularly when serum TG levels are very high ( 242 ). For additional information on fish oil see the chapter on Triglyceride Lowering Drugs ( 209 ). Drug Therapy The effect of statins, fibrates, niacin, ezetimibe, omega-3-fatty acids, bile acid sequestrants, bempedoic acid, and PCSK9 inhibitors on lipid levels in patients with diabetes is virtually identical to that seen in non-diabetic patients ( Table 14 ). Below we will highlight
