Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


sequestrants, bempedoic acid, and PCSK9 inhibitors on lipid levels in patients with diabetes is virtually identical to that seen in non-diabetic patients ( Table 14 ). Below we will highlight issues particularly relevant to the use of these drugs in patients with diabetes. For detailed information on lipid lowering drugs see the chapters on Triglyceride Lowering Drugs and Cholesterol Lowering Drugs ( 141 , 209 ). STATINS Statins are easy to use and generally well tolerated by patients with diabetes. However, statins can adversely affect glucose homeostasis. In patients without diabetes the risk of developing diabetes is increased by approximately 10% with higher doses of statin causing a greater risk than more moderate doses ( 243 , 244 ). The mechanism for this adverse effect is unknown but older, obese patients with higher baseline glucose levels are at greatest risk. In patients with diabetes, an analysis of 9 studies with over 9,000 patients with diabetes reported that the patients randomized to statin therapy had a 0.12% higher HbA1c than the placebo group indicating that statin therapy is associated with only a very small increase in HbA1c levels in patients with diabetes, which is unlikely to be clinically significant ( 245 ). Individual studies such as CARDS and the Heart Protection Study have also shown only a very modest effect of statins on HbA1c levels in patients with diabetes ( 163 , 166 , 246 ). Muscle symptoms occur in patients with diabetes similar to what is observed in patients without diabetes. EZETIMIBE Ezetimibe is easy to use and generally well tolerated by patients with diabetes. Ezetimibe does not appear to increase the risk of new onset diabetes ( 199 , 247 , 248 ). FIBRATES Fibrates are easy to use and generally well tolerated by patients with diabetes. When combining fibrates with statin therapy it is best to use fenofibrate as the risk of inducing myositis is much less than when statins are used in combination with gemfibrozil, which can inhibit statin metabolism ( 249 ). In the ACCORD-LIPID Trial the incidence of muscle disorders was not increased in the statin + fenofibrate group compared to statin alone ( 189 ). The dose of fenofibrate needs to be adjusted in patients with renal disease and fenofibrate itself can induce a reversible increase in serum creatinine levels. It should be noted that marked reductions in HDL-C levels can occur in some
