Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


of major amputations was seen in the placebo and fenofibrate groups. The basis for this reduction in amputations is unknown. Do Fibrates have an Independent Effect on Microvascular Disease? Multiple studies cited above have now shown that fenofibrate decreases retinopathy, nephropathy, and amputation in the absence of large vessel disease. The effects are independent of blood glucose control. Given that there also was no effect of fenofibrate on cardiovascular (macrovascular) disease, these results may suggest that fenofibrate has an independent effect on microvascular disease. Further studies are warranted, but these results should be taken into account when considering treatment of marked hypertriglyceridemia in patients with diabetes. BILE ACID SEQUESTRANTS Bile acid sequestrants are relatively difficult to take due to GI toxicity (mainly constipation) ( 141 ). Diabetic subjects have an increased prevalence of constipation, which may be exacerbated by the use of bile acid sequestrants. On the other hand, in diabetic patients with diarrhea, the use of bile acid sequestrants may be advantageous. Bile acid sequestrants may also increase serum TG levels, which can be a problem in patients with diabetes who are already hypertriglyceridemic ( 141 ). An additional difficulty in using bile acid sequestrants is their potential for binding other drugs ( 141 ). Many drugs should be taken either two hours before or four hours after taking bile acid sequestrants to avoid the potential of decreased drug absorption. Patients with diabetes are frequently on multiple drugs for glycemic control, hypertension, etc., and it can sometimes be difficult to time the ingestion of bile resin sequestrants to avoid these other drugs. Colesevelam (Welchol) is a bile acid sequestrant that comes in pill, powder, or chewable bars and causes fewer side effects and has fewer interactions with other drugs than other preparations ( 254 ). The usual dose is 3.75 grams per day and can be given as tablets (​take 6 tablets once daily or 3 tablets twice daily), oral suspension (​take one packet once daily), or chewable bars (take one bar once daily). Of particular note is that a number of studies have shown that colesevelam improves glycemic control in patients with diabetes resulting in an approximately 0.5% decrease in A1c levels ( 255 ). NIACIN Niacin is well known to cause skin flushing and itching and GI upset ( 256 ). Additionally, niacin reduces insulin sensitivity (i.e., causes insulin resistance), which can worsen glycemic control ( 256
