Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


well known to cause skin flushing and itching and GI upset ( 256 ). Additionally, niacin reduces insulin sensitivity (i.e., causes insulin resistance), which can worsen glycemic control ( 256 ). Studies have shown that niacin is usually well tolerated in diabetic subjects who are in good glycemic control ( 257 , 258 ). In patients with poor glycemic control, niacin is more likely to adversely impact glucose levels. In the HPS2-Thrive trial, niacin therapy significantly worsened glycemic control in patients with diabetes and induced new onset diabetes in 1.3% of subjects that were non-diabetic ( 195 ). High doses of niacin are more likely to adversely affect glycemic control. Niacin can also increase serum uric acid levels and induce gout, both of which are already common in obese patients with T2DM ( 256 ). Additionally recent trials have reported an increased incidence of infection and bleeding with niacin therapy ( 256 ). However, niacin is the most effective drug in increasing HDL-C levels, which are frequently low in patients with diabetes. OMEGA-3-FATTY ACIDS A Cochrane review of fish oil in patients with diabetes have demonstrated that this is a safe approach and does not result in worsening of glycemic control in patients with diabetes ( 242 ). Fish oil effectively lowers TG levels but, in some patients, particularly those with significant hypertriglyceridemia, high dose fish oil increases LDL-C levels ( 242 ). It should be noted that fish oil products that contain just EPA (Vascepa) do not adversely affect LDL-C levels ( 259 ). When using fish oil to lower serum TG levels it is important to recognize that one is aiming to provide 3-4 grams of DHA/EPA per day. The quantity of these active omega-3-fatty acids can vary greatly from product to product. Prescription fish oil products contain large amounts of these active ingredients whereas the amount of DHA/EPA in food supplements can vary greatly and in some products levels are very low. Additionally, while prescription omega-3-fatty acid preparations have high levels of quality control, omega-3-fish oil food supplements may have contaminants and the dosage may not be precisely controlled. PCSK9 INHIBITORS The beneficial effects of PCSK9 inhibitors in patients with diabetes is similar to what is observed in non-diabetic patients. Additionally, except for local reactions at the injection sites PCSK9 inhibitors do not seem to cause major side effects. PCSK9 inhibitors do not appear to increase the
