Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


↑ 4- 9% ↓ 20- 50%* * Patients with elevated TG have largest decrease ** In patients with high TG may cause marked increase *** In patients with high TG may increase LDL Therapeutic Approach FIRST PRIORITY- LDL-C The first priority in treating lipid disorders in patients with diabetes is to lower the LDL-C levels to goal, unless TG are markedly elevated (> 500- 1000mg/dL), which increases the risk of pancreatitis. LDL-C is the first priority because the database linking lowering LDL-C with reducing ASCVD is extremely strong and we now have the ability to markedly decrease LDL-C levels. Dietary therapy is the initial step but, in almost all patients, will not be sufficient to achieve the LDL-C goals. If patients are willing and able to make major changes in their diet it is possible to achieve significant reductions in LDL-C levels but this seldom occurs in clinical practice ( 264 ). Statins are the first-choice drugs to lower LDL-C levels and the vast majority of diabetic patients will require statin therapy. There are several statins currently available in the US and they are available as generic drugs and therefore relatively inexpensive. The particular statin used may be driven by price, ability to lower LDL-C levels, and potential drug interactions. Patients with ASCVD (secondary prevention patients) should be started on intensive statin therapy (atorvastatin 40-80mg per day or rosuvastatin 20-40mg per day). Given the extensive data showing that the lower the LDL-C the greater the reduction in ASCVD events most secondary prevention patients would benefit from the addition of ezetimibe to maximize LDL-C lowering. Ezetimibe is now a generic drug and therefore this strategy will not markedly increase costs. Similarly, primary prevention patients who are at high risk for cardiovascular events will also benefit from the use of high intensity statin therapy in combination with ezetimibe. Primary prevention patients at moderate risk can be started on moderate intensity statin therapy. If a patient is unable to tolerate statins or statins as monotherapy are not sufficient to lower LDL-C to goal the second-choice drug is either ezetimibe or a PCSK9 inhibitor. Ezetimibe can be added to any statin. PCSK9 inhibitors can also be added to any statin and are the drug of choice if a large decrease in LDL-C is required to reach goal (PCSK9 inhibitors will lower LDL-C levels by 50-60% when added to a statin, whereas ezetimibe will only
