Role of Glucose and Lipids in the Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Patients with Diabetes
KEYWORDS: patients, diabetes, levels, risk, ascvd, cardiovascular, group, ldl-c, therapy, events, control, trial, study, statin, patients diabetes


of choice if a large decrease in LDL-C is required to reach goal (PCSK9 inhibitors will lower LDL-C levels by 50-60% when added to a statin, whereas ezetimibe will only lower LDL-C by approximately 20%). Bile acid sequestrants and bempedoic acid are alternatives with the use of a bile acid sequestrant particularly useful if a reduction in A1c level is also needed. It should be noted that in statin intolerant patients with ASCVD or at high risk (approximately 45% with diabetes), bempedoic acid has been shown to reduce cardiovascular events by 13% (HR 0.87; 95% CI 0.79 to 0.96; P = 0.004) ( 187 ). Ezetimibe, PCSK9 inhibitors, bempedoic acid, and bile acid sequestrants additively lower LDL-C levels when used in combination with a statin, because these drugs increase hepatic LDL receptor levels by different mechanisms, thereby resulting in a reduction in serum LDL-C levels ( 141 ). Niacin and the fibrates also lower LDL-C levels but are not usually employed to lower LDL-C levels. SECOND PRIORITY- NON-HDL-C The second priority should be non-HDL-C (non-HDL-C = total cholesterol – HDL-C), which is particularly important in patients with elevated TG levels (>150mg/dL). Non-HDL-C is a measure of all the pro-atherogenic apolipoprotein B containing particles. Numerous studies have shown that non-HDL-C is a strong risk factor for the development of ASCVD ( 265 ). The non-HDL-C goals are approximately 30mg/dL greater than the LDL-C goals. For example, if the LDL goal is <100mg/dL then the non-HDL-C goal would be <130mg/dL. Drugs that reduce either LDL-C or TG levels will reduce non-HDL-C levels. To lower TG levels initial therapy should focus on glycemic control and lifestyle changes including weight loss if indicated and a decrease in simple sugars and ethanol intake. Additionally, if possible, discontinue medications that increase triglyceride levels. As discussed above, studies with the omega-3-fatty acid icosapent ethyl (EPA; Vascepa) added to statin therapy have reduced the risk of cardiovascular events. The National Lipid Association has recommended “that for patients aged ≥45 years with clinical ASCVD, or aged ≥50 years with diabetes mellitus requiring medication plus ≥1 additional risk factor, with fasting TGs 135 to 499 mg/dL on high-intensity or maximally tolerated statin therapy (±ezetimibe), treatment with icosapent ethyl is recommended for ASCVD risk reduction” ( 266 ). As noted earlier in this chapter there is controversy regarding the benefits of icosapent ethyl on cardiovascular outcomes with some experts interpreting the
