Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2015 November 7; 21(41): 11825-11831
KEYWORDS: oats, oat, celiac, disease, patients, studies, gluten, gluten-free, doi, celiac disease, diet, pmid, wheat, grains, products


individuals with minimal symptoms (the most oat grain contains larger amounts of total protein and difficult to detect) and extra-intestinal symptoms[5-7]. crude fat, and a small amount of crude fibre. The However, regardless of its symptomatic presentation, major nutritional components of oats are shown in virtually all cases of active CD occur after the sus- Table 1. ceptible individual has received dietary exposure to the the ingestion of gluten proteins contained in wheat, Several studies have described oats as a functional barley, and rye results in characteristic inflammation, food with the ability to lower blood cholesterol and villous atrophy, and crypt hyperplasia in the upper sugar levels, reduce hypertension, help control small intestine. childhood asthma, reduce body weight, and also During the early 1980s, the spectrum of gluten- provide immunomodulatory, antioxidant, and antia- related disorders was relatively simple: CD and therogenic effects[14,17-19] (Table 2). Oats also contain dermatitis herpetiformis (CD of the skin). While a significant amounts of vitamins, minerals, fibre, gluten-free diet (GFD) is still recommended for all and phytochemicals that regulate intestinal transit patients with CD, the area of CD research is changing times and increase the production of butyrate and/or rapidly, and wheat allergies, gluten ataxia, and other faecal short chain fatty acids produced by gut nonceliac gluten sensitivity have recently been added microflora. As a result, the long-term dietary intake as new gluten-related topics for study. The only of oats or oat bran might benefit patients suffering treatment for these disorders remains adherence to a from inflammatory bowel disease, ulcerative colitis, GFD; however, many patients experience persistent colorectal adenoma or cancer. However, further studies CD-related symptoms despite their best efforts to are required to accurately assess the benefits provided avoid dietary gluten. A GFD is expensive and difficult by increased oat consumption when treating bowel to maintain because many products made from disorders. gluten-containing grains are Western dietary staples. Additionally, due to the well-established effect of that an individual receives adequate nutrition. In the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) have been described in CD patients following their long- label of many foods containing soluble fibre derived term treatment with a strict GFD. Such observations from oats. Moreover, in 2010, a European Food Safety might possibly be explained by the composition and Authority (EFSA) panel concluded that current scientific nutritional quality of commercially available gluten- evidence supports the following two-part statement: free products. While individuals
