Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2015 November 7; 21(41): 11825-11831
KEYWORDS: oats, oat, celiac, disease, patients, studies, gluten, gluten-free, doi, celiac disease, diet, pmid, wheat, grains, products


possibly be explained by the composition and Authority (EFSA) panel concluded that current scientific nutritional quality of commercially available gluten- evidence supports the following two-part statement: free products. While individuals on a GFD need to “Oat β-glucan has been shown to lower/reduce blood replace wheat, barley, rye, and their derivatives with cholesterol. Blood cholesterol lowering may reduce the foods derived from naturally gluten-free cereal grains risk of coronary heart disease”. (e.g., rice, corn, buckwheat, sorghum, etc.), but the recommended amounts of fibre, iron and calcium can OATS AND CELIAC DISEASE be more difficult to obtain on such a diet and good planning is required. Oats contain both soluble Oat avenins and insoluble dietary fibre, B-complex vitamins, iron, As the prolamin components of oat seeds, the and proteins, and have recently been considered avenins are known to exist as both monomers and WJG|www.wjgnet.com 11826 November 7, 2015|Volume 21|Issue 41| Comino I et al. Oats in celiac disease Table 1 Main nutritional components of oats Components Properties Ref. Proteins Albumins, globulins, prolamins, and glutenins Oats are distinct among cereals due to their higher protein concentration and distinct protein composition. The major storage proteins are globulins Carbohydrates β-glucan, glucose, fructose, pentosans, saccharose, β-glucan is the most important component because it is a constituent kestose, neokestose, bifurcose, neobifurcose, acid of the dietary fibre obtained from oats. β-glucan has important galactoarabinoxylan, etc functional and nutritional properties, and exhibits a high viscosity at relatively low concentrations Lipids Oat lipids are highly unsaturated and contain Oats, after corn, have the highest lipid content of any cereal. Oat lipids several essential fatty acids include very high levels of antioxidants Antioxidants Vitamin E (tocols), phytic acid, phenolic compounds, Antioxidants may reduce serum cholesterol concentrations, and avenanthramides, flavonoids, and sterols inhibit the growth of certain cancer cells Table 2 Health benefits of oats Effect Findings Ref. Hypocholesterolemic An effect derived from β-glucan content, and demonstrated in normal and hypercholesterolemic subjects. The statistical significance of this cholesterol reduction has been variable, and remains controversial Hypoglycaemic Studies have suggested that oat consumption can significantly decrease insulin response, fasting blood glucose [56-58] levels, and the incidence of postprandial hyperglycaemia. However, some studies have failed to identify a diet- related effect on glycaemic control or a person’s insulinemic response to oat-enriched products Prevention of cancer Selenium, present in oats, is involved in DNA repair and associated with a reduced risk for cancer; especially [59-61]
