Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2015 November 7; 21(41): 11825-11831
KEYWORDS: oats, oat, celiac, disease, patients, studies, gluten, gluten-free, doi, celiac disease, diet, pmid, wheat, grains, products


or a person’s insulinemic response to oat-enriched products Prevention of cancer Selenium, present in oats, is involved in DNA repair and associated with a reduced risk for cancer; especially [59-61] colon cancer. Furthermore, it is found in foods with a high fibre content Reduction of hypertension Soluble fibre-rich whole oats may be effective when consumed as dietary therapy for the prevention and adjunct treatment of hypertension Immunomodulatory β-glucans act by stimulating the immune system and inhibiting the growth of various bacteria, viruses, fungi, and parasites Antioxidant Oats contain chemicals with potential antioxidant properties; e.g., vitamin E (tocols), phytic acid, and phenolic compounds, etc Antiatherogenic In vivo studies of atherosclerosis showed that oat bran reduced plasma cholesterol levels. However, it was difficult to determine whether its antiatherogenic effect was a result of reduced plasma cholesterol alone, or if additional effects of other oat components contributed to the result Obesity control Studies revealed that oats effectively reduced obesity, as well as indexes of serum lipid levels and liver function. These effects were observed when using β-glucan with the proper molecular weight disulfide-linked aggregates. Similar to other cereal glutenins. In particular, the tandem cysteines at prolamins, the avenin polypeptides in oats tend to be positions 145-146 in oat prolamins form a disulfide rich in proline and glutamine, and the protein regions bond. This is in contrast to wheat proteins, where the enriched in these two amino acids are associated two tandem cysteines are bonded to more distant with elicitation of CD. However, when compared to cysteines within the prolamin. prolamins in other cereal grains, oat prolamins show Despite these reported differences, the avenins have the following differences in their molecular size, not been well studied. As a result, the complete avenin percentage, and amino acid content: (1) prolamins genes described in current genetic databases represent account for 10%-20% of the total protein in oats, only a few genotypes, and the variability displayed by compared to 40%-50% of the total protein in avenin genes in oats is not well represented. wheat; (2) among the accepted prolamins, those lowest contents of proline and glutamine (25%-30%), The inclusion of oats in gluten-free foods is con- while prolamines in the Triticeae tribe (wheat, barley, troversial, as previous studies have shown contra- and rye) can have proline plus glutamine contents dictory results regarding their toxicity. Janatuinen that exceed 70% of their total amino acids. In et al conducted
