Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2015 November 7; 21(41): 11825-11831
KEYWORDS: oats, oat, celiac, disease, patients, studies, gluten, gluten-free, doi, celiac disease, diet, pmid, wheat, grains, products


studies have shown contra- and rye) can have proline plus glutamine contents dictory results regarding their toxicity. Janatuinen that exceed 70% of their total amino acids. In et al conducted the first controlled study on the contrast, proline and glutamine generally comprise toxic effects of oats in CD patients, and since that 35%-50% of amino acids found in the prolamins of time several other similar investigations have been oats; (3) in contrast to the single longer repetitive conducted. Some researchers have claimed that domain found in Triticeae prolamins, oat avenins celiac patients can consume oats and show no contain two shorter domains with high contents of signs of intestinal inflammation[12,28-31]. In a study proline and glutamine; and (4) the disulfide pattern conducted by Størsrud et al, a small number of in oat prolamins is different from those reported in adult celiac subjects consumed pure oats (93 g/d) for wheat γ-gliadins and low molecular weight (LMW)- 2 years with no reported adverse effects. The same WJG|www.wjgnet.com 11827 November 7, 2015|Volume 21|Issue 41| Comino I et al. Oats in celiac disease researchers also conducted a study in which a group Maerkning/Codex%20standard%20for%20gluten. of celiac children ingested a median of 43 g (up to pdf), oats can be tolerated by most but not all people 81 g/d) of oats daily for 2 years with no adverse who are intolerant to gluten. Therefore, whether effects. Moreover, a randomized double-blind study oats that are not contaminated with wheat, rye or conducted with newly diagnosed CD children showed barley and are contained in foods covered by this that consumption of an oat-containing GFD for 1 standard can be considered safe for consumption small bowel mucosal recovery. However, despite those at the national level. Moreover, according to Com- results, 26% of the children in the oat-containing mission Regulation (EC) No 41/2009 ( GFD group withdrew from that study for unknown lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ: reasons. L:2009:016:0003:0005:EN:PDF), which addresses While the previously mentioned studies appear the composition and labelling of foodstuffs suitable to support the safety of oat consumption by celiac for people intolerant to gluten, the risk that oats may patients, the results of other studies suggest that become contaminated with wheat, rye or barley during regular consumption of certain types of oats may grain harvesting, transport, storage or processing be impossible for such patients, due to their toxic remains a major concern. Therefore, the risk that effects. Those studies revealed
