Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2015 November 7; 21(41): 11825-11831
KEYWORDS: oats, oat, celiac, disease, patients, studies, gluten, gluten-free, doi, celiac disease, diet, pmid, wheat, grains, products


of oats may grain harvesting, transport, storage or processing be impossible for such patients, due to their toxic remains a major concern. Therefore, the risk that effects. Those studies revealed that oats can trigger oat-containing products might be contaminated with an immune reaction in celiac patients[28,36-38] that exogenous gluten should be taken into consideration results in activation of mucosal T-cells, subsequent when creating their labels. gut inflammation, and eventual villous atrophy. In Some studies have utilized the R5 ELISA method to those patients, the immune response against avenins determine the level of contamination in wheat, barley, may have been triggered by a mechanism similar to or rye in oat products[42-44]. Koerner et al used this that which triggers a response to gluten contained in method to confirm that the commercial oat supply in wheat, rye, or barley. Lundin et al studied 19 celiac Canada is heavily contaminated with gluten from other patients who consumed 50 grams of oats/day for 12 grains. For example, about 88% of the tested oat wk, and found that one patient was oat sensitive. CD samples (n = 133) showed a gluten level > 20 mg/kg. patients have circulating anti-avenin antibodies, However, the problem with using this method is that and a recent study revealed that dietary oats can alter the R5 antibody can react with certain types of pure the mRNA immune status of intestinal mucosa cells; oat seed; hence, a test result suggesting “suspected suggesting T-cell activation and the presence of leaky contamination” from exogenous toxic cereal grains tight-junctions. Such findings indicate the need to may not be real, due the R5 antibody reacting with distinguish between groups of celiac patients based certain amino acid sequences in the native oat on their sensitivity to different cereal grains, and also proteins. to identify the source of immunogenicity in avenin peptides. Diversity in potential immunogenicity depends on oat cultivars Gluten contamination of commercial oat products Differences in the type of oat grain, oat purity, study The phrase “pure oats” is used to describe oats that design, as well as the specifications for gluten-free after being analysed using current test methods, products in different countries, are some reasons appear to be uncontaminated with gluten from other why the current studies have not clearly established closely related cereal grains, such as wheat, barley, whether or not oats can be safely consumed by all and rye. However, the differences
