Chapter
KEYWORDS: vaccines, countries, drugs, vaccine, disease, world, use, drug, developing, national, essential, procurement, medicines, percent, health


a public health problem has public good characteris- disease control programs need to be involved in these tics: the benefits of the absence of disease are available to discussions at an early stage to prevent policy decisions from everyone, and all persons benefit at the same time. adversely affecting their programs. Any national drug policy Therefore,governments must take an active role in ensuring broadly relates to three key objectives: increasing access, that adequate vaccines of assured quality are available for improving and ensuring quality, and ensuring rational pre- comprehensive immunization programs within the country. scription and use by providers and patients. The recent flu vaccine shortage and resulting rationing The primary components of a drug policy are selection of problems in the United States have illustrated this principle essential medicines;assurance of affordability,which includes clearly. issues of pricing, taxation, generic competition, and policies • Countries should strive toward financial sustainability for related to the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of the national immunization program. Intellectual Property Rights ;financing options; supply systems;regulation and quality assurance;rational use; A vaccine policy normally has six specific objectives: including clinical trials; human resource development for • To provide a coordinated approach to national vaccines and pharmaceutical policy and program management; and moni- equipment needs, including national vaccine production toring and evaluation.WHO has developed manuals and has where applicable provided technical support to countries to develop such • To provide criteria for vaccine selection and introduction, national policies (WHO 2001b,2003a). including burden-of-disease studies where relevant • To develop a financial sustainability plan that ensures avail- ability ofvaccines in the longer term VACCINE POLICIES • To define guidelines for private-public partnerships,includ- ing vaccine research Every country has a national vaccine policy,usually laid down • To define national research priorities in a national health policy or through the establishment of • To support the implementation of the national immuniza- well-defined elements of such a policy. WHO defines global tion programs. frameworks and produces policy documents to advise develop- ing countries .At the national level these guide- Policy setting is a continuous process that must keep up lines may be adapted to fit national needs and capacities. with global developments and changing national needs. Standards and norms for vaccines are also set by WHO and are Countries will normally formulate policies that are based on generally adhered to worldwide . the technical work of a national committee of experts, who WHO’screationoftheExpandedProgramonImmunization
