Chapter
KEYWORDS: vaccines, countries, drugs, vaccine, disease, world, use, drug, developing, national, essential, procurement, medicines, percent, health


set by WHO and are Countries will normally formulate policies that are based on generally adhered to worldwide . the technical work of a national committee of experts, who WHO’screationoftheExpandedProgramonImmunization meet regularly under the auspices of the ministry of health. (EPI) in the 1970s established a policy for selection and use Bilateral donors and the Global Alliance for Vaccines and of vaccines that the vast majority of developing countries Immunization (GAVI) may influence policy setting,such as the adopted. Only three vaccines—HepB, yellow fever (YF), and timing for introduction ofnew vaccines,where they contribute HaemophilusinfluenzaetypeB(Hib)—havebeenaddedsince significantly to the national immunization programs. then,andtheoverallprogramdirectionsremainlargelyintact. In recent years,WHO has published a set of policy guide- SELECTION OF DRUGS lines for vaccines not included in the global recommendations. These position papers are regularly updated. Three guiding Selection of a limited list of essential medicines that should principles provide the pillars for any national vaccine policy: always be available is necessary both for supply officials who work on procurement,storage,and distribution and for clini- • Every eligible child must have equal access to nationally cians who aim to use medicines most effectively. adopted vaccines regardless of religion,caste,or economic In 1977, WHO defined the first Model List of Essential status. Drugs ;since then it has updated the list 14 times. • Vaccines require active government financial participation The latest list defines essential medicineas follows: to ensure that they are provided and used in adequate externalities.For example,the benefits to society ofan indi- care needs ofthe population.They are selected with due regard 1324 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Susan Foster, Richard Laing, Bjørn Melgaard, and others comparative cost effectiveness. Essential medicines are selection oftreatments would ideally have already been under- intended to be available within the context of functioning taken on the basis of available evidence or clinical trial data priate dosage forms,with assured quality and adequate infor- lines would thus become the medicines on the essential mation,and at a price the individual and the community can medicines list.This list would then serve as the basis for pro- afford.The implementation of the concept of essential medi- curement, storage, and distribution activities. The evidence- cines is intended to be flexible and adaptable to many different based treatment guidelines would define treatment practices situations; exactly which medicines are regarded as essential and be the basis of training (including examinations and remains a national responsibility. licensing) and supervision. In 2003,the WHO
