Chapter
KEYWORDS: vaccines, countries, drugs, vaccine, disease, world, use, drug, developing, national, essential, procurement, medicines, percent, health


define treatment practices situations; exactly which medicines are regarded as essential and be the basis of training (including examinations and remains a national responsibility. licensing) and supervision. In 2003,the WHO Expert Committee on Selection and Use of Essential Medicines decided to define the criteria for core and complementary lists,as follows: SELECTION OF VACCINES The core list presents a list ofminimum medicine needs for a Developing countries select vaccines used in national immu- cost-effective medicine for priority conditions.Priority condi- guidelines. Most countries have adhered strictly to the six tions are selected on the basis ofcurrent and estimated future original vaccines—Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG), oral treatment. recommendation of the WHO Global Advisory Group on The complementary list presents essential medicines for Immunization, HepB vaccine was included in the global priority diseases,for which specialized diagnostic or monitor- guidelines in 1987, and YF vaccine was added in 1988; Hib vaccine was added in 1994. These remain the only vaccines all three are needed.In case of doubt,medicines may also be recommended by theWHO for national use,and the recom- listed as complementary because of their consistently higher mendationpresupposesthatadiseaseburdenofpublichealth costs or less attractive cost effectiveness in a variety ofsettings (WHO 2003d,28). importanceispresent(seetable72.1). A few vaccines,such as YF and Japanese encephalitis (JE), At its 2002 meeting,the WHO Expert Committee changed have regional importance in accordance with the prevalence of its attitude toward fixed-dose combinations (FDCs).The com- the disease.These vaccines are used in only a small number of mittee stated that most essential medicines should be formu- developing countries. WHO has not generally recommended lated as single compounds.Fixed dose combination products JE,although no evidence indicates that the disease burden of are selected only when the combination has a proven advantage over single compounds administered separately in therapeutic effect,safety,adherence or in delaying the development ofdrug Table 72.1 Current Vaccines Recommended by the World 2002c). This change reflected the interest in preventing the Age development of resistance and in promoting adherence. Although controversial,these FDC products will very likely be Vaccine Birth 6 weeks 10 weeks 14 weeks 9 months the main form of treatment for AIDS,tuberculosis (TB),and BCG X malaria. Oral polio Xa X X X The number of medicines on the WHO list has increased Diphtheria- X X X over time.The 2003 WHO list has 320 drugs in 559 formula- tetanus- tions (Laing and others 2003). At country level, the essential pertussis drugs list is used as a guide rather than
