Chapter
KEYWORDS: vaccines, countries, drugs, vaccine, disease, world, use, drug, developing, national, essential, procurement, medicines, percent, health


2003 WHO list has 320 drugs in 559 formula- tetanus- tions (Laing and others 2003). At country level, the essential pertussis drugs list is used as a guide rather than as a template.A study Hepatitis Bb X X X of 17 national lists of essential drugs showed that 68 percent Haemophilus X X X had fewer than 300 drugs.The number ofdrugs per list ranged influenzaetype Bb from 108 in Liberia to 389 in Karnataka state,India.Nine ofthe Yellow fever Xc drugs on the WHO list were not on any ofthe 17 national drug Measles Xd lists in the study (Laing and others 2003). Source:WHO 2002d, 88. At the first stage ofidentifying common diseases and com- a.In endemic countries. plaints,managers of disease control programs are in a strong b.Only a few African countries have been able to introduce the vaccines to date. position to provide epidemiological information about the c. In countries where yellow fever poses a risk. d. In addition, a second opportunity to receive a dose of measles vaccine should be provided for incidence or prevalence ofa condition.At the second stage,the all children. Ensuring Supplies of Appropriate Drugs and Vaccines | 1325 YF is greater than the JE disease burden.However,a safety issue procurement were recommended under different circum- exists with mouse brain–derived vaccines such as JE. stances. These methods were open tender, restricted tender Oral polio vaccine (OPV) is the vaccine of choice in devel- with performance monitoring, negotiated procurement, and oping countries,because it is easy to administer and the pro- direct procurement.At that time,the World Bank was a major tective effect spreads to close contacts ofvaccinees.It is suitable funder, and many countries favored the use of open tender. for mass campaigns, so the vaccine is used in poliomyelitis However, a major shift has taken place to restricted tender eradication programs.In 2005,the monovalent type 1 OPV,for based on prequalification and direct procurement from non- which seroconversion rates are substantially higher than for profit suppliers. The World Bank has produced a number of trivalent OPV,has started to be used in areas where only type 1 useful documents and resource materials that can be used for wild poliovirus remains in circulation. national procurement activities (World Bank 2000). The selection ofthe original EPI vaccines was made on pro- Another method of procurement that has been more grammatic criteria rather than on considerations of disease widely used has been procurement from nonprofit suppliers, burden.
