Chapter
KEYWORDS: vaccines, countries, drugs, vaccine, disease, world, use, drug, developing, national, essential, procurement, medicines, percent, health


more times less expensive than brand-name drugs.Bulk pur- of children die in the developing world from pneumonia chase of generic drugs is the single best way to make a given caused by other strains of the bacteria,but no vaccine is cur- budget go farther to satisfy the drug needs ofa population.For rently available against those strains. price comparison, international prices (ex-factory, free- on-board—that is,not including insurance,freight charges,or taxes) are available online from Management Sciences for portation and freight, as well as any applicable local taxes. After the drugs have been selected, the next step is to decide Organizations that procure drugs in bulk but then sell smaller how much to order.Usually this decision is based in part on quantities,usually to nonprofit organizations,can help smaller past consumption,but it is also based on treatment guidelines purchasers obtain the advantages of competitive tendering. and morbidity patterns.Concentrating on larger quantities of Examples include the International Dispensary Association, fewer drugs and dosage forms simplifies the process of order- which is based in the Netherlands,and the Copenhagen office ing and reduces the chances ofrunning out ofstock.Ordering of UNICEF,which is able to supply drugs at very low cost to tablets or capsules rather than syrups or injections saves a great government-supported institutions. deal ofmoney. Recent studies have revealed just how much the local In 1997,when the second edition ofManaging Drug Supply component of drug costs can be, particularly in the private was published (Quick and others 1997), four methods of sector. A survey of costs in nine countries found an average 1326 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Susan Foster, Richard Laing, Bjørn Melgaard, and others markup of68.6 percent,with retail markups of16 to 50 percent ranging from 20 percent to 67 percent for chloroquine tablet comprising the largest single component in most cases. In (CQT) and 5 percent to 38 percent for sulphadoxine/ countries that charge a value added tax on drugs,the tax can pyrimethamine tablet (SPT) and dissolution failures ranging add 15 to 20 percent to the price ofthe drug (Levison and Laing from5percentto29percentforCQT,and75percentto100per- 2003). Many of these cost elements are within the control of cent for SPT . Good procurement practices of national policy makers. both brand-name and generic drugs require that suppliers be Finally, when considering a change of standard therapy, prequalified through the inspection of dossiers and factory managers of disease control programs need to take into inspections for good manufacturing
