Chapter
KEYWORDS: vaccines, countries, drugs, vaccine, disease, world, use, drug, developing, national, essential, procurement, medicines, percent, health


on an increasing The prequalification process is rigorous but efficient. WHO share ofvaccine financing,purchase the vaccines directly from provides a positive list of prequalified products and manufac- the producers or their representatives.Unfortunately,procure- turers that have applied for and received favorable product ment is often being undertaken with little recognition that assessments and manufacturing site inspections.Since January stringent quality assurance procedures must be in place to 2005, the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and oversee the entire process. WHO is organizing workshops Malaria has required recipients to use WHO-prequalified specifically targeted at vaccine procurement and has developed products. a vaccine procurement manual to guide such countries (WHO Ensuring quality is also an important aspect of any immu- 2005a). nization program. For countries receiving their vaccines through UN agencies, WHO advises on the quality, efficacy, and safety ofvaccines on the market through a prequalification QUALITY ASSURANCE FOR PHARMACEUTICALS of vaccines that entails the following steps: (a) reliance on a AND VACCINES fully functional national regulatory authority (NRA) in the country ofproduction and (b) verification ofcompliance with In an ideal world,all products to be imported into a country specifications through a thorough process of independent would be registered by a fully competent national drug regula- dossier reviews, testing of samples, site visits, ongoing moni- tory authority to ensure quality.Unfortunately,this situation is toring ofquality,and follow-up ofcomplaints. not always the case.A study ofantimalarial samples from seven For a successful prequalification process, the NRA of the African countries found that failures in ingredient content country of production must be functional and empowered by Ensuring Supplies of Appropriate Drugs and Vaccines | 1327 the government. A set of laws and structures must be in vertically to some extent, and because they were concerned place that guarantee the NRA’s authority and independence with a far more limited range of products,the task was some- and that the NRA exercises the following functions:licensing, what simpler. postmarketing surveillance,lot release,laboratory access,GMP A push has been made to integrate the distribution systems functions constitute the prerequisite for vaccines of assured separate systems are still operating,at least at the national level quality and are the focus in vaccine regulation. and often down to provincial levels. Vian and Bates (2003) noted a number of changes to the distribution systems in the LOCAL PRODUCTION OF PHARMACEUTICALS grams included effortsto reform central medical stores to allow Large-scale production of pharmaceuticals in the developing more autonomy and
