Chapter
KEYWORDS: vaccines, countries, drugs, vaccine, disease, world, use, drug, developing, national, essential, procurement, medicines, percent, health


as private manufacturing.For abandoned (Vian and Bates 2003). many countries,technical expertise,raw materials,quality stan- dards,and production and laboratory equipment all need to be imported,so foreign exchange savings may be small or nonex- Storage and Stocks Management istent.Few developing countries have the capacity to produce Drugs require secure storage in controlled climatic conditions active ingredients for pharmaceutical manufacture.Industrial and a reliable method of stock rotation.The FEFO rule (first investment to promote local manufacture of pharmaceuticals expiry,first out) helps ensure that older stock is used up first. in most,but not all,developing countries could be better used Security is another major consideration: access to the store- to improve health infrastructure (Kaplan and others 2003). house must be carefully controlled so that theft and embezzle- In summary, a manager of a disease control program is ment are minimized,and the persons who control access must likely to obtain quality-assured products by procuring them themselves be trustworthy.Proper storage conditions,includ- from prequalified suppliers at the lowest prices without con- ing minimizing exposure to heat, light, and humidity, are sidering whether the products are locally produced. important for some drugs, but most drugs have proved remarkably resistant to poor conditions.Notable exceptions are STORAGE AND DISTRIBUTION OF ESSENTIAL tetracycline products, which become toxic when exposed to DRUGS AND VACCINES heat,and oxytocin and ergometrine,which lose their potency when exposed to light and heat;all should thus be stored in the In the past,essential drugs,vaccines,and contraceptives were refrigerator.The same applies to insulin and,of course,most for the most part distributed using separate logistics systems. vaccines. Correct FEFO stock rotation will ensure that expo- For vaccines and contraceptives,such systems were organized sure to harsh conditions is minimized and that potency is 1328 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Susan Foster, Richard Laing, Bjørn Melgaard, and others preserved as much as possible. Ensuring good air circulation At the country level,emphasis is being put on the use ofnew and preventing direct water contact are most important. tools,such as the vaccine vial monitor.This heat-sensitive label is a time-temperature indicator used to ensure that the vaccines have not been damaged by excessive exposure to heat,to iden- Management of Donated Drugs tify weaknesses in the cold chain,and to take vaccines beyond Management of donated drugs is a major problem in some the cold chain to children who have no access to fixed health areas,particularly ifan emergency has precipitated an influx of facilities. drug donations. The best strategy is
