Chapter
KEYWORDS: vaccines, countries, drugs, vaccine, disease, world, use, drug, developing, national, essential, procurement, medicines, percent, health


is likely to have a dramatic Ensuring Supplies of Appropriate Drugs and Vaccines | 1329 effect on the improvement of treatment practices (Laing, exists on the advantages and disadvantages ofuser fees.On the have often taken a large proportion ofit.Their net contribution DISPENSING has rarely exceeded 5 percent of a government’s recurrent expenditure. On the other hand, they often accounted for as Finally,the last step in the chain of the drug supply system is high as 100 percent of nonsalary recurrent expenditures. delivery to the patient.Often,dispensing is done by untrained Moreover, where they have been retained at the facility level, staff members who know little about the drugs they are dis- they have allowed for improvements in infrastructure and staff pensing and are unable to communicate effectively with the income,as well as ensuring a more regular supply ofdrugs (Xu patient.Anecdotal stories about patients receiving a handful of and others forthcoming). to staff members but demonstrate that patients need explana- tages are numerous. They are often applied inequitably, with tions about the drugs they are getting. Increasing the use of exemptions provided to richer people—such as government dispensing materials—paper or plastic bags—may be worth- workers, the military, and the police—while poorer people while if it improves adherence to treatments. Brief training must pay. But the main problem is that user fees discourage courses for dispensers can substantially improve the quality of some people, particularly the poor, from seeking care at all. Another major problem is the presence of dispensing doc- financially crippling,to the extent that households may sacri- tors.A number of studies in both developed and developing fice food,education,or other important purchases to pay for countries have demonstrated that dispensing doctors prescribe drugs.Some are forced into poverty as a direct result of user more by value and not according to national or accepted guide- fees.A related issue ofincreasing importance with the advent of lines (Trap,Hansen,and Hogerzeil 2002).The higher number effective antiretroviral therapy for AIDS is that user fees dis- ofprescriptions is strongly associated with symptomatic treat- courage adherence to long-term treatment,resulting in treat- ment (that is,a drug was prescribed for every symptom);gen- ment failure,increased disease transmission,and the develop- eral overprescribing of antibiotics; overuse of injections; and ment of drug resistance. Fees are, therefore, particularly prescription ofmedicines with lower clinical value.From a pol- problematic for transmissible diseases. icy and safety perspective,the functions ofprescribing and dis- On the basis of similar evidence, Creese (1997,
