Chapter
KEYWORDS: vaccines, countries, drugs, vaccine, disease, world, use, drug, developing, national, essential, procurement, medicines, percent, health


therefore, particularly prescription ofmedicines with lower clinical value.From a pol- problematic for transmissible diseases. icy and safety perspective,the functions ofprescribing and dis- On the basis of similar evidence, Creese (1997, 203) con- pensing should be separated whenever possible (Nizami,Khan, cluded,“A range ofpolicy options otherthan user fees exists for and Bhutta 1996). dealing with situations of both under financing and rapid growth in expenditure.As an instrument ofhealthpolicy,user fees have proved to be blunt and oflimited successand to have ADHERENCE potentially serious side effects in terms of equity.They should be prescribed only after alternative interventionshave been Delivering the drug to the patient is not the end of the story: considered.”In this respect,WHO is now advocating that fees the patient must adhere to the therapy. Failure to comply or should be minimized and that countries should be supported adhere will result in poorer health outcomes;it may compro- in attempts to channel a high proportion of health expenses mise the effectiveness oftreatment,decrease the quality oflife, through taxes or prepayment mechanisms such as forms of increase preventable disability,and lead to premature death.It insurance. emergency rooms, more and longer hospitalizations, and Table 72.2 Measured World Pharmaceutical Spending, by potentially more use ofintensive care units . per Capita Income Clusters, 1990–2000 (percent) Share of FINANCING ISSUES Share of expenditure world total on health The share ofexpenditures on health that goes to pharmaceuti- Income group 1990 2000 1990 2000 cals is presented in table 72.2. Asking patients to pay part or all of the cost of their drugs High income 80.2 78.7 13.0 13.8 can aid in holding down costs,reducing overuse,and replen- Middle income 17.1 18.8 22.5 24.8 ishing the funds for drugs in the system. Drugs are often Low income 2.7 2.4 20.8 19.2 targeted for such fees because it is felt that patients will pay for Source:WHO 2004f. them ifthey have no other choice.A substantial literature now Note:Income groups refer to World Bank classifications as of July 2000. 1330 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Susan Foster, Richard Laing, Bjørn Melgaard, and others SUSTAINABLE FINANCING OF VACCINES the cost per fully immunized child now reaching US$30 if ANDIMMUNIZATIONS HepB and Hib are included. This increased cost adds to the challenge.Governments in low-income countries and interna- Immunization is now generally accepted as representing one of tional development partners need to develop long-term strate- the “best buys” for the health sector that governments must gies to
