Chapter
KEYWORDS: vaccines, countries, drugs, vaccine, disease, world, use, drug, developing, national, essential, procurement, medicines, percent, health


interna- Immunization is now generally accepted as representing one of tional development partners need to develop long-term strate- the “best buys” for the health sector that governments must gies to ensure adequate financing for key health programs and play a lead role in financing,but sustainable financing mecha- interventions,including vaccines. nisms have been largely absent in poor countries (WHO Since GAVI and the Vaccine Fund were established,renewed 2004a). The cost of immunizing a child against the six basic attention has been paid to financing issues as they relate to vac- diseases hovers between US$15 and US$20 at current levels of cine and immunization financing. GAVI has worked with coverage,representing no more than US$0.50 per capita,and WHO and countries to consider how much it would require to on average 0.2percent of the gross domestic product in most maintain existing levels of coverage after GAVI funding ends, low-income countries.These costs suggest that immunizations whereas among the prerequisites for countries to obtain assis- are affordable for most developing countries from national tance from the Vaccine Fund is preparation of long-term budgets. However, immunization programs account for only financing plans for immunization programs. However, most 5 to 10 percent of total government health expenditures in low-income countries clearly will be unable to fund even a many countries,which often rely heavily on donor funds. minimum set ofessential interventions in the short to medium Although the international community has recognized the term without the assistance of international partners,thereby important reasons that financing of vaccines cannot be left to increasing the need to develop the long-term financing strate- individuals or households,donor support has often been quite gies described above.A mix of such strategies would include erratic. The result is volatile financing that is vulnerable to raising additional domestic funds,ensuring that funds are used shifts in donor priorities. In addition, recipient governments effectively and efficiently, moving to greater reliance on pre- recognize that donors are more likely to fund vaccines than payment mechanisms,and ensuring increased and stable flows many other services, so they have taken the opportunity to of external funds.Table 72.3 summarizes and compares some spend their own resources on activities that are important to recent trends in the financing of essential drugs,vaccines,and them but are less attractive to donors.This phenomenon can be contraceptives. seen in the apparent mismatch between data on disease bur- ofgovernment funds. ISSUES FOR THE FUTURE The challenge facing governments in poor countries is
