Chapter
KEYWORDS: vaccines, countries, drugs, vaccine, disease, world, use, drug, developing, national, essential, procurement, medicines, percent, health


of Essential Drugs, Vaccines, and Contraceptives Commodity Trends and developments Implications for logistics Essential drugs Use of loans and pooled or “basket” financing arrangements is In the short term, procurement delays, shortages, emergency pro- increasing, leading to increased government involvement in curement requests, higher prices, and greater waste will result procurement. while governments develop internal capacity to procure. Also, increasing government involvement can mean less predictable results because of politics and governance issues. . decentralization and privatization proliferate. lating into more technical assistance and emphasis on performance benchmarking. Difficulties in evaluating procurement systems are caused by a proliferation of models. Countries are moving toward restrictive tender and prequalifica- In the longer term, prequalification may shorten the procurement tion of suppliers. cycle and lower costs. Similar effects from use of NGO suppliers are possible. Role of NGO suppliers continues in some countries as well as role of international NGO suppliers. User fees represent a major trend for essential drugs, with many Fee systems can decrease demand unless mechanisms exist to health facilities operating on a cash-and-carry basis. ensure service for those unable to pay. Private sector role is increasing as it becomes more apparent Policy makers and managers will need to design and implement that public sector and NGO services cannot meet all needs. programs that promote appropriate use of the private sector Vaccines Donor contributions have been decreasing starting in 1990s. Concerns are similar to those with essential drugs. Government financing and procurement of vaccines is increas- GAVI supplies may require logistics changes because of new ing; a dependence on external resources persists. vaccines and injection equipment. Some shift in financing from grants to loans, and more use of Pressure on governments to finance vaccine purchases may lead to basketfinancing. less government funding for EPI operating expenses and other Ministry of Health programs. Use of pooled procurement mechanisms and revolving funds or Outcome-based support requires information systems resistant to other international financial mechanisms, some based on manipulation. achievement of outcomes, is increasing. New vaccines and vaccine combinations (new with old) are supplied through GAVI. Contraceptives Donor contributions have been flat or have decreased, starting Concerns are similar to those with essential drugs. in 1990s. Despite efforts to increase government contributions, there is Demand is created without supply keeping up. still a major dependence on external resources. Many governments continue to give contraceptives (as Constraints of Mexico City policy (“global gag
