Chapter
KEYWORDS: vaccines, countries, drugs, vaccine, disease, world, use, drug, developing, national, essential, procurement, medicines, percent, health


there is Demand is created without supply keeping up. still a major dependence on external resources. Many governments continue to give contraceptives (as Constraints of Mexico City policy (“global gag rule”) have limited compared with drugs) low priority for procurement with their funding for contraceptives. own funds. Financing through loans and basket financing are increasing, and governments are increasingly involved in procurement. Source:Adapted from Vian and Bates 2003. drugs and supplies. Programs and funding agencies that are tory infections (mainly pneumonia), diarrheal disease, HIV ing coverage or case detection rates—often overlook the fact complicates the effective treatment for nearly all ofthese acute that such improvements will increase drug needs and costs. infections.Furthermore,this trend is expected to accelerate in the coming decades. In the treatment of HIV and AIDS, the Drug Resistance increase of retroviral drug resistance is becoming a serious Although the burden of chronic and noninfectious disease is problem,especially in view ofthe limited number oftreatment increasing rapidly in the developing world,infectious diseases regimens available to date. still account for nearly halfofdeaths in low-income countries. Drug-resistant malaria is now widespread. Chloroquine— Most of these deaths are caused by six diseases:acute respira- once a cheap and reliable first-line treatment for malaria—is 1332 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Susan Foster, Richard Laing, Bjørn Melgaard, and others no longer effective in most countries.Newer drugs are signifi- HAART;and President George W.Bush’s Emergency Plan for cantly more expensive. Most recently, the trend has been AIDS Relief.A number ofissues are raised by the delivery ofa toward multidrug combinations ofproducts,and the addition complex, lifelong, costly treatment to poorer communities, of more than one drug is often to “protect” the component especially in rural areas, one of which will be how to ensure apeutic effect . ranging from district hospitals to health centers or even home Drug resistance in tuberculosis control—in particular,mul- settings,for HAART delivery. tidrug resistance—is a growing problem. Multidrug-resistant TB has now appeared around the world, and in many places Aging and Chronic Diseases more than 20 percent of resistant new tuberculosis cases are resistant to several drugs.Furthermore,the emergence ofmul- One of the important results of the exercise to estimate the tidrug-resistant bacilli means that medication that once cost global burden of disease was to highlight the growing impor- US$20 must now be replaced with drugs that are significantly tance of chronic disease,particularly in the developing world. more expensive and more difficult to
