Chapter
KEYWORDS: vaccines, countries, drugs, vaccine, disease, world, use, drug, developing, national, essential, procurement, medicines, percent, health


acute respiratory syndrome. new cases will be type 2 and, thus, most will not be insulin more than 5 million deaths per year,or about 50 percent ofall dependent,but they will require oral diabetic medications.For infectious disease deaths (see table 72.4).The total investment nology,the main barrier (other than cost) is the need for stor- probably take at least 5 to 10 years before a vaccine against any age ofthe insulin in a cold or cool location and for sterile injec- ofthem is available. tion equipment. In either case, to meet the predicted rise in GAVI has selected three vaccines for accelerated develop- cases and to treat them with current drugs,a major expansion ment:meningococcal meningitis,rotavirus,and pneumococcal ofdrug supply for diabetes must be anticipated.Many diabet- vaccines.They have been selected because they are considered provide adequate treatment will increase as the population ages considered neglected in terms ofvaccine development,among and begins to demand treatment ofits chronic afflictions—and them shigella dysentery and dengue fever. in that case the increase in demand for diabetes medications New diseases emerge and old ones reemerge, influencing would potentially be much more than 150 percent. priorities in vaccine research.The severe acute respiratory syn- Another important finding of the global burden-of-disease drome (SARS) epidemic,the outbreak of avian influenza,and exercise was the high number of DALYs lost to mental illness, the emergence ofbioterrorism threats such as anthrax have led depression in particular. In 2020, unipolar depression is pro- to a new search for vaccines against these infections.The threat jected to be the leading cause of morbidity and disability ofa pandemic ofa reassorted influenza virus strain has recently among females worldwide and in developing countries. highlighted the need for much greater resources and attention Whereas in the industrial countries a pharmacological solution to be devoted to the development and distribution ofeffective is often used,this approach may not be feasible in the develop- flu vaccines. ing world,at least not at present price levels.Recent research in the developing world has shown good results with weekly New Vaccine Technologies group interpersonal therapy, without the use of antidepres- sants. Trained laypersons ran the therapy sessions, not psy- Alternative routes of administration would improve program chiatrists or medical personnel (Bolton and others 2003). safety,avoiding needle transmission ofbloodborne pathogens. The ability of nonprofessionals to administer vaccines would also ease vaccine delivery strategies. New administration VACCINE RESEARCH PRIORITIES routes,such as oral,nasal,and transcutaneous routes,are being explored.An interesting project concentrates on the
