Chapter
KEYWORDS: vaccines, countries, drugs, vaccine, disease, world, use, drug, developing, national, essential, procurement, medicines, percent, health


The ability of nonprofessionals to administer vaccines would also ease vaccine delivery strategies. New administration VACCINE RESEARCH PRIORITIES routes,such as oral,nasal,and transcutaneous routes,are being explored.An interesting project concentrates on the develop- In the past two decades new advances in biotechnology have ment ofa nasal measles vaccine that would greatly enhance the resulted in the licensure ofnew vaccines,such as Hib,acellular feasibility ofeliminating this disease by facilitating the admin- pertussis,HepB,and attenuated varicella.Research institutions istration during mass campaigns. in the public sector have generated most ofthe basic scientific The concept of using plant-derived or edible vaccines breakthroughs, whereas the large pharmaceutical companies involves encoding protective antigens from pathogens into have borne the cost for clinical development. Because such transgenic plants. The plants are processed so that they can development requires heavy investments that need to be deliver a uniform dose of vaccines.Human clinical trials have recouped from profits,new vaccines are expensive and there- been conducted with,for example,bananas and raw potatoes, fore out ofreach for poor populations. which have shown encouraging antibody responses. The Of all the vaccines currently under development,the three potential advantages of this technology could include ther- most needed today are vaccines to prevent the three big mostability, low investment needs, multivalency, and oral diseases—AIDS, TB, and malaria—which jointly account for administration. 1334 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Susan Foster, Richard Laing, Bjørn Melgaard, and others New Immunization Technologies world. Only a limited number of research centers have the capacity and experience required to conduct phase 2 and Priority is given to new delivery technologies that will expand especially phase 3 trials of new vaccines,and they are mainly access,improve safety,and cut the cost of immunization pro- located in industrial countries.The capacity to conduct phase grams.They include the following technologies: 3 trials in developing countries needs to be strengthened; the current situation impedes further development of vaccines • The reuse of disposable syringes and needles is widespread needed in those countries. and contributes significantly to the transmission of hepati- Pilot lot production ofvaccines is required for all phases of tis B and C and HIV. The autodisabled syringe prevents ever, inadequate to meet demand. Close public-private part- staffand the general public from contaminated syringes and nerships are necessary to ensure that the production capacity is needles. available. • Four different technologies are being explored to minimize Manufacturers need markets to provide some assurance that the risk ofinfection from accidental
