Chapter
KEYWORDS: vaccines, countries, drugs, vaccine, disease, world, use, drug, developing, national, essential, procurement, medicines, percent, health


ensure that the production capacity is needles. available. • Four different technologies are being explored to minimize Manufacturers need markets to provide some assurance that the risk ofinfection from accidental exposure to sharps:cor- the development cost for new products can be recouped.Such rosive disinfectants, thermoprocessing, needle destruction, incentives require realistic forecasts ofdemands.Various mech- and plastic melting. However, none of these options will anisms have recently been put in place to try to guarantee soon be put into use in the field. future markets,most notably the Vaccine Fund. • Although the adoption of the multidose vial policy will Last,disease burden data are needed for both selections of contribute to the reduction of wastage,the ultimate aim is vaccines for national programs and for estimations of vaccine to provide all immunizations as monodose preparations. requirements, including market projections. However, such Injection devices prefilled with a monodose increase quality data are lacking in many countries and regions.Existing data and safety at the point ofuse.UniJect is one such device that are especially weak for respiratory disease ofboth bacterial and has been tested with HepB and tetanus toxoid.Village health viral origin. workers or traditional birth attendants can use such devices. Currently,the cost ofthe device and the need for additional cold storage space when multidose presentation is ex- changed for monodose pose obstacles to implementation. PRIORITIES FOR PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH • Needle-free injection devicesdeliver vaccine at high velocity The WHO Priority Medicines Project, a recent exercise that into the skin without penetration of a needle,reducing the used evidence-based methods to outline the priorities for risk oftransmission ofbloodborne pathogens.Technologies public funding of pharmaceutical research, has recently been are being developed for both mono- and multidose presen- published . It incorporated data from the tations.Available multidose injectors have not been found burden-of-disease rankings and from the Cochrane Database safe,and new models are under development.However,reg- ofSystematic Reviews ofdata on clinical efficacy.It also incor- ulatory obstacles and high cost have rendered the monodose porated the use ofcriteria ofsocial justice,social solidarity,and injector models that are currently available infeasible for equity, so that neglected diseases and the needs of special large-scale programs. patient groups (the elderly, women, and children) were also • Vaccine distribution and storage without a cold chain would taken into account.The research identified 20 major diseases considerably simplify the delivery system,reduce cost,and that account for 60 percent of the total DALY burden both in allow for an integrated supplies mechanism.Development Europe
