Chapter
KEYWORDS: vaccines, countries, drugs, vaccine, disease, world, use, drug, developing, national, essential, procurement, medicines, percent, health


research identified 20 major diseases considerably simplify the delivery system,reduce cost,and that account for 60 percent of the total DALY burden both in allow for an integrated supplies mechanism.Development Europe and in the rest ofthe world—diseases that are common ofvaccines that do not need a cold chain should be the high- to both groups included unipolar depression, ischemic heart est priority for technology research. Sugar glass drying is disease, cerebrovascular disease, chronic obstructive pul- one such technology that has shown great promise.It can be monary disease, and digestive diseases (excluding diarrheal used to produce multivalent vaccines that are completely diseases). heat stable except under extreme climatic conditions. The The authors also mention the important contributions of high cost of regulation and licensing and the uncertainty various cancers,lower respiratory tract infections,and diabetes about market prospects in industrial countries have so far to the burden of disease,which is common to both developed impeded the development and use ofthis technology. European countries and to the developing world (WHO 2004b).Smoking is clearly a major contributing risk factor,and Obstacles to Vaccine Research the authors caution that expenditure on pharmaceuticals for A host ofobstacles confront vaccine research,the most impor- smoking cessation must not divert resources from other efforts tant being the low level ofinvestment for vaccine development to reduce smoking.The priority areas identified by this exercise when there are limited market prospects in the industrial are presented in table 72.5. Ensuring Supplies of Appropriate Drugs and Vaccines | 1335 Table 72.5 Preliminary List of 16 Priority Areas for IMS Global Learning Consortium. 2003. “2002 World Pharma Sales Pharmaceutical Research Growth: Slower, but Still Healthy.” insight/news_story/0302/news_story_030228.htm. Rank Condition International Dispensary Association. 2004. E-Catalogue of Products. 1 Infections caused by antibacterial resistance Joranson, D. E., M. R. Rajagopal, and A. M. Gilson. 2002.“Improving 2 Pandemic influenza Access to Opioid Analgesics for Palliative Care in India.”Journal ofPain 3 Cardiovascular disease and Symptom Management24 (2):152–59. 4 Diabetes (types 1 and 2) Kaplan,W.A.,R.O.Laing,B.Waning,L.Levison,andS.D.Foster.2003.“Is LocalProductionofPharmaceuticalsaWaytoImprovePharmaceutical 5 Cancer AccessinDevelopingandTransitionalCountries?SettingaResearch 6 Acute stroke Agenda.” World Bank, Washington, DC. org/hnp/hsd/documents/LOCALPRODUCTION.pdf. 7 HIV/AIDS Laing, R. O., H. V. Hogerzeil, and D. Ross-Degnan. 2001. “Ten 8 Tuberculosis Recommendations to Improve Use of Medicines in Developing 9 Neglected diseasesa Countries.”Health Policy and Planning16 (1):13–20. 10 Malaria Laing,R.O.,B.Waning,A.Gray,N.Ford,and E.’t Hoen.2003.“Twenty- Five Years of the WHO Essential Medicines Lists: Progress and 11 Alzheimer’s disease Challenges.”Lancet361 (9370):1723. 12 Osteoarthritis Levison, L., and R. O. Laing. 2003. “The Hidden Costs of Essential
