Chapter
KEYWORDS: vaccines, countries, drugs, vaccine, disease, world, use, drug, developing, national, essential, procurement, medicines, percent, health


Hoen.2003.“Twenty- Five Years of the WHO Essential Medicines Lists: Progress and 11 Alzheimer’s disease Challenges.”Lancet361 (9370):1723. 12 Osteoarthritis Levison, L., and R. O. Laing. 2003. “The Hidden Costs of Essential 13 Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease Medicines.”Essential Drugs Monitor33:20–21. 14 Alcohol use disorders: alcoholic liver disease and alcohol Management Sciences for Health.2004.International Drug Price Indica- dependency tor Guide. DMP&language=English. 15 Depression in the elderly and adolescents Merriman,A.,adapted from D.Doyle,and T.F.Benson.2002.Palliative 16 Postpartum hemorrhage Medicine: Pain and Symptom Control in the Cancer and/or AIDS Patient in Uganda and Other African Countries. 3rd ed. Kampala: Hospice Source:WHO 2004b. a. Neglected diseases include, but are not limited to, trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness), Buruli Africa Uganda. ulcer, leishmaniasis, and Chagas disease. Nizami, S. Q., I. A. Khan, and Z. A. Bhutta. 1996. “Drug Prescribing Practices for General Doctors and Paediatricians for Childhood Diarrhoea in Karachi,Pakistan.”Social Science and Medicine 42 (8): CONCLUSION 1133–39. Quick,J.D.,J.R.Rankin,R.O.Laing,R.W.O’Connor,H.V.Hogerzeil, Ensuring that needed essential medicines and vaccines are M.N.G.Dukes,and A.Garnett,eds.1997.Managing Drug Supply. available is critical for the success of any disease control pro- 2nd ed. Management Sciences for Health in collaboration with the gram.A great deal is known about what works and what does Sabate,E.,ed.2003.Adherence to Long-Term Therapies: Evidence for Action. not work. Careful selection, procurement from prequalified Geneva:World Health Organization. suppliers,proper storage and distribution using secure reliable Trap,B.,E.H.Hansen,and H.V.Hogerzeil.2002.“Prescription Habits of channels,and assurance ofrational use and correct dispensing Dispensing and Non-Dispensing Doctors in Zimbabwe.”Health Policy are all critical components of any drug and vaccine supply and Planning 17 (3):288–95. system.Ensuring that adequate funds are available to pay for Trouiller,P.,P.Olliaro,E.Torreele,J.Orbinski,R.O.Laing,and N.Ford. the procurement, distribution, and quality assurance of all 2002.“Drug Development for Neglected Diseases:A Deficient Market and a Public-Health Policy Failure.”Lancet359 (9324):2188–94. medicines and vaccines is equally critical. Depending on the UNICEF (United Nations Children’s Fund). 2004.“Supply Catalogue.” circumstances,either the public or the private sector or a com- bination of both can efficiently deliver quality-assured Vian, T., and J. Bates. 2003. Implications and Recommendations for medicines and vaccines.The experience ofa number ofcoun- Contraceptive Security. Vol. 1 of Commodity Security and Product tries and programs has demonstrated that essential medicines Availability Issues for Essential Medicines,Vaccines,and Contraceptives. and vaccines can be reliably delivered to poor people using the Arlington, VA: John Snow/U.S. Agency for International Development. approaches described in this chapter. WHO (World Health Organization).1977.The Selection ofEssential Drugs: Report of a WHO Expert Committee.WHO Technical Report Series 615.Geneva:World Health Organization.
