Bookshelf_NBK584409
KEYWORDS: neuropathy, autonomic, sensory, autonomic neuropathy, sensory autonomic, disability, intellectual disability, intellectual, hereditary, variants, hsan, hereditary sensory, individuals, related, pathogenic


NLM Citation: Heimer G, Neuser S, Ben-Zeev B, et al. TECPR2-Related Hereditary Sensory and Autonomic Neuropathy with Intellectual Disability. 2022 Sep 22. In: Adam MP, Bick S, Mirzaa GM, et al., editors. ® Seattle; 1993-2026. Bookshelf URL: TECPR2-Related Hereditary Sensory and Autonomic Neuropathy with Intellectual Disability Synonyms: Hereditary Sensory and Autonomic Neuropathy Type IX with Developmental Delay (HSAN9), Hereditary Spastic Paraplegia Type 49 (SPG49) 1 2 1 Created: September 22, 2022. Summary Clinical characteristics TECPR2-related hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy with intellectual disability (TECPR2-HSAN with ID) is characterized by developmental delay and subsequent intellectual disability, behavioral abnormalities, neurologic manifestations (muscular hypotonia, sensory neuropathy with lower-limb hypo- or areflexia and ataxic gait), and autonomic dysfunction (including central hypoventilation and apnea, gastrointestinal dysmotility, dysphagia, and gastroesophageal reflux disease with recurrent aspiration). To date, more than 30 individuals with TECPR2-HSAN with ID have been identified. Diagnosis/testing The diagnosis of TECPR2-HSAN with ID is established in a proband with suggestive findings and biallelic pathogenic (or likely pathogenic) variants in TECPR2 identified by molecular genetic testing. Management Treatment of manifestations: Currently there are no specific disease-modifying treatments for TECPR2-HSAN with ID. Supportive care is recommended to improve quality of life, maximize function, reduce complications, and minimize risk for apnea and asphyxia, the two most common causes of death. Supportive care can include multidisciplinary care by pediatric specialists in neurology, development, behavior, feeding, pulmonology, gastroenterology, orthopedics, ethics, and medical genetics. School, Boston, Massachusetts; Email: . 2 GeneReviews ® Surveillance: Routinely monitor existing manifestations, response to supportive care, and emergence of new manifestations. Agents/circumstances to avoid: Avoid drugs that cause decreased consciousness, hypopnea, and CO retention such as benzodiazepines or antihistamines; or if necessary, use at low doses with close monitoring. Genetic counseling TECPR2-HSAN with ID is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. If both parents are known to be heterozygous for a TECPR2 pathogenic variant, each sib of an affected individual has at conception a 25% chance of being affected, a 50% chance of being an asymptomatic carrier, and a 25% chance of inheriting neither of the familial pathogenic variants. Once the TECPR2 pathogenic variants have been identified in an affecte d family member, carrier testing for at-risk relatives and prenatal/preimplantation genetic testing are possible. Diagnosis No consensus clinical diagnostic criteria for TECPR2-related hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy with intellectual disability (TECPR2-HSAN with ID) have been published. Suggestive Findings TECPR2-HSAN with ID should be suspected in
