Bookshelf_NBK584409
KEYWORDS: neuropathy, autonomic, sensory, autonomic neuropathy, sensory autonomic, disability, intellectual disability, intellectual, hereditary, variants, hsan, hereditary sensory, individuals, related, pathogenic


for founder variants, multigene panel) and comprehensive genomic testing (exome sequencing, genome sequencing). Gene-targeted testing requires that the clinician determine which gene(s) are likely involved (Option 1), whereas genomic testing does not (Option 2). Option 1 Targeted analysis for founder variants can be performed first in individuals of Bukharian or Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry (see Table 7). A hereditary spastic paraplegia, neuropathy, cerebral palsy, or intellectual disability multigene panel that includes TECPR2 and other genes of interest (see Differential Diagnosis) is most likely to identify the genetic cause of the condition while limiting identification of variants of uncertain significance and pathogenic variants in genes that do not explain the underlying phenotype. Note: (1) The genes included in the panel and the diagnostic sensitivity of the testing used for each gene vary by laboratory and are likely to change over time. (2) Some multigene panels may include genes not associated with the condition discussed in this GeneReview. (3) In some laboratories, panel options may include a custom laboratory-designed panel and/or custom phenotype- focused exome analysis that includes genes specified by the clinician. (4) Methods used in a panel may include sequence analysis, deletion/duplication analysis, and/or other non-sequencing-based tests. tests can be found here. Option 2 Comprehensive genomic testing does not require the clinician to determine which gene is likely involved. Exome sequencing is most commonly used; genome sequencing is also possible. Limitations of exome sequencing may include limited detection of intragenic deletions/insertions and whole-gene deletions or duplications. ordering genomic testing can be found here. 4 GeneReviews ® Table 1. Molecular Genetic Testing Used in TECPR2-Related Hereditary Sensory and Autonomic Neuropathy with Intellectual Disability Proportion of Pathogenic Variants 2 Gene 1 Method Detectable by Method Sequence analysis 3 100% 4 TECPR2 Gene-targeted deletion/duplication Unknown 6 analysis 5 1. See Table A. Genes and Databases for chromosome locus and protein. 2. See Molecular Genetics for information on variants detected in this gene. 3. Sequence analysis detects variants that are benign, likely benign, of uncertain significance, likely pathogenic, or pathogenic. Variants may include small intragenic deletions/insertions and missense, nonsense, and splice site variants; typically, exon or whole-gene 4. Oz-Levi et al , Zhu et al , Heimer et al , Anazi et al , Patwari et al , Neuser et al , Palma et al , Ramsey et al 5. Gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis detects intragenic deletions or duplications. Methods used may include a range of
