Bookshelf_NBK584409
KEYWORDS: neuropathy, autonomic, sensory, autonomic neuropathy, sensory autonomic, disability, intellectual disability, intellectual, hereditary, variants, hsan, hereditary sensory, individuals, related, pathogenic


the moderate to severe range; however, individuals with milder cognitive impairment have been described [Neuser et al 2021]. Speech impairment. Speech delay is universal; speech remains markedly impaired, with a subset of individuals remaining nonverbal. Neurologic manifestations. Motor manifestations are axial and appendicular hypotonia. Lower-limb spasticity, dystonia, dyskinesia, and Parkinsonian features (especially rigidity) can develop in late childhood/adolescence. Gait is mostly ataxic; however, crouched gait can develop at later stages. Although most individuals achieve independent walking, regression in the second decade of life with loss of independent walking is possible. Findings suggestive of a sensory neuropathy typically include hypo- or areflexia in the lower limbs and decreased pain sensitivity. Epilepsy is uncommon, but a few individuals experienced febrile or unprovoked seizures. EEG findings of nonspecific background slowing and epileptiform discharges may be seen in a minority of individuals. Autonomic neuropathy, a prominent feature, significantly affects morbidity and mortality. Autonomic dysfunction presents with central daytime and nocturnal hypopnea and apnea, hypercarbia, dysphagia with recurrent aspiration, gastroesophageal reflux, and constipation. The dysphagia can lead to both recurrent aspiration and asphyxia. Other features of the autonomic neuropathy are temperature and blood pressure instability, hyperhidrosis, and electrolyte disturbances. Anecdotally, disproportionally decreased consciousness can develop in response to intercurrent illness or mild central nervous system depressants such as antihistamines. Recurrent respiratory infections are common and can occur as early as the first year of life. These are likely a result of recurrent aspiration due to dysphagia and gastroesophageal reflux and can be precipitated by laryngeal clefts or laryngomalacia seen in a subset of individuals with TECPR2-HSAN with ID. Over time, recurrent respiratory infections can result in chronic lung disease complicated by bronchiectasis. Behavioral dysregulation is common and often significantly affects quality of life. Manifestations range from hyperactivity and restlessness to psychomotor slowing and apathy. There is a tendency for shouting and grabbing objects and, sometimes, aggressive behaviors. Some individuals display features of autism spectrum disorder. Other findings include the following: • Microcephaly (usually mild or in the low ranges of normal) • Short stature (usually mild or in the low ranges of normal) • Short neck with a retrocollis hyperextension posture 6 GeneReviews ® • Kyphosis, scoliosis, and a barrel-shaped chest, usually developing in the second decade of life • Sensorineural hearing impairment may develop; however, data are insufficient to estimate severity or typical age of onset. • Various ophthalmologic findings including refractive errors (astigmatism,
