Bookshelf_NBK584409
KEYWORDS: neuropathy, autonomic, sensory, autonomic neuropathy, sensory autonomic, disability, intellectual disability, intellectual, hereditary, variants, hsan, hereditary sensory, individuals, related, pathogenic


second decade of life • Sensorineural hearing impairment may develop; however, data are insufficient to estimate severity or typical age of onset. • Various ophthalmologic findings including refractive errors (astigmatism, myopia), strabismus, and abnormal ocular movement (periodic upward gaze deviation, oculomotor apraxia, and nystagmus) Prognosis. TECPR2-HSAN with ID, a progressive disorder, is associated with reduced life expectancy. Several individuals died in the first or second decade of life [Authors, unpublished data]. The oldest individual known to the authors lived until age 19 years. The leading causes of death are asphyxia from aspiration of solid foods, nocturnal central apnea, and complications of chronic progressive lung disease. Genotype-Phenotype Correlations No genotype-phenotype correlations have been identified [Neuser et al 2021]. Nomenclature TECPR2-HSAN with ID was originally described as a form of hereditary spastic paraplegia (SPG49) when the first affected individuals were diagnosed at a relatively late age and showed lower-limb spasticity and a crouched gate. However, with the characterization of additional affected individuals, it became clear that the hallmark feature associated with biallelic TECPR2 pathogenic variants is sensory and autonomic neuropathy. Hence, the TECPR2-related phenotype was reclassified as a subtype of hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy (HSAN9). Prevalence TECPR2-HSAN with ID is an ultra-rare disease. A little more than 30 cases have been reported. The calculated incidence ranges from 1:22,500 (Bukharian population) to 1:5,961,640 newborns (general population, based on gnomAD). About half of affected individuals are born to consanguineous parents. Two populations with founder variants are identified: • Individuals of Jewish Bukharian background: c.3416delT; p.Leu1139ArgfsTer75 [Oz-Levi et al 2012] • Individuals of Jewish Ashkenazi background: c.1319delT; p.Leu440ArgfsTer19 [Heimer et al 2016] The carrier frequency for the Bukharian Jewish population is 1.33% [Oz Levi et al 2012]. The carrier frequency for the Ashkenazi Jewish population is at least 0.65% [Neuser et al 2021]. Genetically Related (Allelic) Disorders No phenotypes other than those discussed in this GeneReview are known to be associated with germline pathogenic variants in TECPR2. TECPR2-Related Hereditary Sensory and Autonomic Neuropathy with Intellectual Disability 7 Differential Diagnosis Table 3. Sensory and Autonomic Neuropathies in the Differential Diagnosis of TECPR2-Related Hereditary Sensory and Autonomic Neuropathy with Intellectual Disability Gene Disorder 1 Key Features Comment Sensory & autonomic Unlike TECPR2-HSAN w/ID, HSAN6 is assoc w/poor neuropathy, profound ID DST HSAN6 (OMIM 614653) feeding, joint contractures, ↓ tongue papilla, alacrima, & w/absent milestones, joint absent flare in response to histamine test. contractures Similar to TECPR2-HSAN
