Bookshelf_NBK584409
KEYWORDS: neuropathy, autonomic, sensory, autonomic neuropathy, sensory autonomic, disability, intellectual disability, intellectual, hereditary, variants, hsan, hereditary sensory, individuals, related, pathogenic


w/poor neuropathy, profound ID DST HSAN6 (OMIM 614653) feeding, joint contractures, ↓ tongue papilla, alacrima, & w/absent milestones, joint absent flare in response to histamine test. contractures Similar to TECPR2-HSAN w/ID, HSAN3 is assoc w/ hypotonia, areflexia, & autonomic manifestations w/ Sensory & autonomic resulting respiratory disease. However, in HSAN3, ID is ELP1 (formerly HSAN3 (See Familial neuropathy, mild ID, usually borderline or mild, & there is poor feeding & IKBKAP) Dysautonomia.) mood lability nephropathy as well as the unique features of alacrima, ↓ tongue papilla, & absent flare in response to histamine test. Similar to TECPR2-HSAN w/ID, HSAN2C is assoc w/ Sensory neuropathy, ± ID, short stature & hypo-/areflexia. However, in HSAN2C, KIF1A HSAN2C (See HSAN2.) ± autonomic dysfunction ID is uncommon, onset is not congenital, & there are frequent painless deformities & muscular atrophy. HSAN5 is assoc w/painless deformities (due to sensory HSAN5 (See Congenital Sensory & autonomic neuropathy) & anhidrosis w/episodic fevers (due to NGF Insensitivity to Pain neuropathy autonomic neuropathy). ID is usually borderline or Overview.) mild. HSAN4 is assoc w/painless deformities (due to sensory HSAN4 (See NTRK1 Sensory & autonomic neuropathy), postural hypotension, anhidrosis w/ NTRK1 Congenital Insensitivity to neuropathy, ID, mood episodic fevers (due to autonomic neuropathy), & Pain with Anhidrosis.) lability, hyperactivity absent flare in response to histamine test. HSAN = hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy; ID = intellectual disability 1. The disorders listed in Table 3 are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Note: Children with TECPR2-related hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy with intellectual disability (TECPR2-HSAN with ID) may be initially misdiagnosed with cerebral palsy. The absence of characteristic findings for cerebral palsy (such as ante- or perinatal risk factors) and the presence of consanguinity and clinical findings such as marked hypotonia and hypo-/areflexia with autonomic neuropathy and suggestive dysmorphic features can help differentiate TECPR2-HSAN with ID from cerebral palsy. Additionally, TECPR2-HSAN with ID shows a progressive course, whereas manifestations of cerebral palsy remain stable. Management Recommendations for clinical management of TECPR2-related hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy with intellectual disability (TECPR2-HSAN with ID), including symptomatic treatment and surveillance, have been published [Neuser et al 2021]. Evaluations Following Initial Diagnosis To establish the extent of disease and needs in an individual diagnosed with TECPR2-HSAN with ID, the evaluations summarized in Table 4 (if not performed as part of the evaluation that led to the diagnosis) are recommended. 8 GeneReviews ® Table 4. Recommended
