Bookshelf_NBK584409
KEYWORDS: neuropathy, autonomic, sensory, autonomic neuropathy, sensory autonomic, disability, intellectual disability, intellectual, hereditary, variants, hsan, hereditary sensory, individuals, related, pathogenic


ID is not fully appreciated at this time and that clinically relevant findings could be missed (e.g., there could be individuals with developmental brain malformations and seizures that are amenable to epilepsy surgery). TECPR2-Related Hereditary Sensory and Autonomic Neuropathy with Intellectual Disability 9 Treatment of Manifestations Currently there are no specific disease-modifying treatments for TECPR2-HSAN with ID. Supportive care to improve quality of life, maximize function, reduce complications, and minimize risk for apnea and asphyxia, which are the two most prevalent causes of death, is recommended. Supportive care can include multidisciplinary care by pediatric specialists in the disciplines of neurology, development, behavior, feeding, pulmonology, gastroenterology, orthopedics, ethics, and medical genetics (see Table 5). Table 5. Treatment of Manifestations in Individuals with TECPR2-Related Hereditary Sensory and Autonomic Neuropathy with Intellectual Disability Manifestation/Concern Treatment Considerations/Other Developmental Developmental support incl PT, OT, & speech therapy Consider ABA therapy in cases of ASD. Motor & orthopedic Consider ankle-foot orthoses & other braces. abnormalities Gastroesophageal Antacids, H2 blockers, or proton pump inhibitors reflux If dysphagia or aspiration are present, consider aspiration precautions (i.e., Aspiration Gastrostomy tube w/or w/o fundoplication avoidance of certain food consistencies or nothing by mouth). Asphyxia Avoid solid foods that can lodge in trachea & cause asphyxia. Chronic lung disease Routine chest physiotherapy & cough assist devices Nocturnal central Consider continuous nighttime pulse oximetry &/or nighttime hypo-/apnea noninvasive ventilation. Nocturnal obstructive Consider adenoidectomy / tonsillectomy if obstructive sleep hypo-/apnea apnea is present. In some cases, surgical repair of strabismus Ocular Adjust glasses to correct refraction errors & strabismus. may also be considered. Seizures Anti-seizure medication ABA = applied behavioral analysis; ASD = autism spectrum disorder; OT = occupational therapy; PT = physical therapy Developmental Delay / Intellectual Disability Management Issues The following information represents typical management recommendations for individuals with developmental delay / intellectual disability in the United States; standard recommendations may vary from country to country Ages 0-3 years. Referral to an early intervention program is recommended for access to occupational, physical, specialists. In the US, early intervention is a federally funded program available in all states that provides in- home services to target individual therapy needs. Ages 3-5 years. In the US, developmental preschool through the local public school district is recommended. Before placement, an evaluation is made to determine needed services and therapies and an individualized education plan (IEP) is developed for those who qualify based on established motor,
