Bookshelf_NBK584409
KEYWORDS: neuropathy, autonomic, sensory, autonomic neuropathy, sensory autonomic, disability, intellectual disability, intellectual, hereditary, variants, hsan, hereditary sensory, individuals, related, pathogenic


6. Recommended Surveillance for Individuals with TECPR2-Related Hereditary Sensory and Autonomic Neuropathy with Intellectual Disability System/Concern Evaluation Frequency • Neurologic exam for response to treatments & evidence of progression Neurologic of existing findings or emergence of new findings • Perform EEG if indicated. Every 6 mos Development Monitor developmental progress & educational needs. • Pulmonary eval • Consider venous blood gases. Respiratory • Consider chest x-ray & sputum cultures. • Consider echocardiography to monitor for pulmonary hypertension. Every 12 mos • Consider arterial blood gases. Gastroenterology eval & consultation w/dietician Every 6 mos Consider swallow study (unless fed by gastrostomy). Every 12 mos Gastroenterology Every 12 mos & also during Perform electrolytes & liver function tests. intercurrent illnesses Orthopedic eval to assess for need for supportive devices (such as orthoses) & Every 6 mos monitor for potential complications such as hip dislocation & scoliosis Orthopedic Consider spine x-ray. Every 12 mos Sleep Polysomnography study In case of snoring or consistent ENT ENT eval tonsillar enlargement Assess family need for social work support (e.g., palliative/respite care, home Family/ nursing, other local resources), care coordination, or follow-up genetic At each visit Community counseling if new questions arise (e.g., family planning). 12 GeneReviews ® Agents/Circumstances to Avoid Avoid drugs that cause decreased consciousness, hypopnea, and CO retention such as benzodiazepines or antihistamines; if necessary, use at low doses with close monitoring. Evaluation of Relatives at Risk See Genetic Counseling for issues related to testing of at-risk relatives for genetic counseling purposes. Therapies Under Investigation Search ClinicalTrials.gov in the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for access to information on clinical studies for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Note: There may not be clinical trials for this disorder. Genetic Counseling Genetic counseling is the process of providing individuals and families with information on the nature, mode(s) of inheritance, and implications of genetic disorders to help them make informed medical and personal decisions. Th e following section deals with genetic risk assessment and the use of family history and genetic testing to clarify genetic status for family members; it is not meant to address all personal, cultural, or ethical issues that may arise or to substitute for consultation with a genetics professional. —ED. Mode of Inheritance TECPR2-related hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy with intellectual disability (TECPR2-HSAN with ID) is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Risk to Family Members Parents of
