Bookshelf_NBK584409
KEYWORDS: neuropathy, autonomic, sensory, autonomic neuropathy, sensory autonomic, disability, intellectual disability, intellectual, hereditary, variants, hsan, hereditary sensory, individuals, related, pathogenic


professional. —ED. Mode of Inheritance TECPR2-related hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy with intellectual disability (TECPR2-HSAN with ID) is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Risk to Family Members Parents of a proband • The parents of an affected child are presumed to be heterozygous for a TECPR2 pathogenic variant. • Molecular genetic testing is recommended for the parents of a proband to confirm that both parents are heterozygous for a TECPR2 pathogenic variant and to allow reliable recurrence risk assessment. • If a pathogenic variant is detected in only one parent and parental identity testing has confirmed biological maternity and paternity, it is possible that one of the pathogenic variants identified in the proband occurred as a de novo event in the proband or as a postzygotic de novo event in a mosaic parent [Jónsson et al 2017]. If the proband appears to have homozygous pathogenic variants (i.e., the same two pathogenic variants), additional possibilities to consider include: ⚬ A single- or multiexon deletion in the proband that was not detected by sequence analysis and that resulted in the artifactual appearance of homozygosity; ⚬ Uniparental isodisomy for the parental chromosome with the pathogenic variant that resulted in homozygosity for the pathogenic variant in the proband. • Heterozygotes (carriers) are asymptomatic and are not at risk of developing the disorder. Sibs of a proband • If both parents are known to be heterozygous for a TECPR2 pathogenic variant, each sib of an affected individual has at conception a 25% chance of being affected, a 50% chance of being an asymptomatic carrier, and a 25% chance of inheriting neither of the familial pathogenic variants. • Heterozygotes (carriers) are asymptomatic and are not at risk of developing the disorder. TECPR2-Related Hereditary Sensory and Autonomic Neuropathy with Intellectual Disability 13 Offspring of a proband. To date, individuals with TECPR2-HSAN with ID are not known to reproduce. Other family members. Each sib of the proband's parents is at a 50% risk of being a carrier of a TECPR2 pathogenic variant. Carrier Detection Carrier testing for at-risk relatives requires prior identification of the TECPR2 pathogenic variants in the family. Related Genetic Counseling Issues Family planning • The optimal time for determination of genetic risk and discussion of the availability of prenatal/ preimplantation genetic testing is before pregnancy. • It is appropriate to offer genetic counseling (including discussion of potential risks to offspring and reproductive options) to
