Bookshelf_NBK584409
KEYWORDS: neuropathy, autonomic, sensory, autonomic neuropathy, sensory autonomic, disability, intellectual disability, intellectual, hereditary, variants, hsan, hereditary sensory, individuals, related, pathogenic


of the availability of prenatal/ preimplantation genetic testing is before pregnancy. • It is appropriate to offer genetic counseling (including discussion of potential risks to offspring and reproductive options) to young adults who are carriers or are at risk of being carriers and to the parents of affected children. • Carrier testing for reproductive partners of known carriers should be considered, particularly if consanguinity is likely and/or the reproductive partner is of Bukharian or Ashkenazi Jewish background, as these population groups have higher carrier frequencies as a result of founder variants (see Prevalence). Prenatal Testing and Preimplantation Genetic Testing Once the TECPR2 pathogenic variants have been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. Differences in perspective may exist among medical professionals and within families regarding the use of prenatal testing. While most centers would consider use of prenatal testing to be a personal decision, discussion of these issues may be helpful. Resources GeneReviews staff has selected the following disease-specific and/or umbrella support organizations and/or registries for the benefit of individuals with this disorder and their families. GeneReviews is not responsible for the • MedlinePlus Spastic paraplegia type 49 Molecular Genetics Information in the Molecular Genetics and OMIM tables may differ from that elsewhere in the GeneReview: tables may contain more recent information. —ED. Table A. TECPR2-Related Hereditary Sensory and Autonomic Neuropathy with Intellectual Disability : Genes and Databases Gene Chromosome Locus Protein HGMD ClinVar TECPR2 14q32.31 Tectonin beta-propeller TECPR2 TECPR2 repeat-containing protein 2 Data are compiled from the following standard references: gene from HGNC; chromosome locus from OMIM; protein from UniProt. 14 GeneReviews ® Table B. OMIM Entries for TECPR2-Related Hereditary Sensory and Autonomic Neuropathy with Intellectual Disability (View All in OMIM) 615000 TECTONIN BETA-PROPELLER REPEAT-CONTAINING PROTEIN 2; TECPR2 615031 NEUROPATHY, HEREDITARY SENSORY AND AUTONOMIC, TYPE IX, WITH DEVELOPMENTAL DELAY; HSAN9 Molecular Pathogenesis TECPR2 (tectonin beta-propeller repeat containing 2) is a large, multidomain protein comprising an amino- terminal tryptophan-aspartic-acid dipeptide (WD) domain, a middle unstructured region, and a carboxy- terminal TEPCR domain containing six TECPR repeats followed by a functional LC3 interacting region (LIR) motif at the extreme carboxy terminus [Stadel et al 2015]. TECPR2 was identified as an interactor of the ATG8 family proteins, which play key roles in autophagy [Oz Levi et al 2012]. TECPR2 regulates targeting of autophagosomes to lysosomes, a process primarily mediated by its carboxy-terminal TECPR domain. In fibroblasts
