Bookshelf_NBK584409
KEYWORDS: neuropathy, autonomic, sensory, autonomic neuropathy, sensory autonomic, disability, intellectual disability, intellectual, hereditary, variants, hsan, hereditary sensory, individuals, related, pathogenic


proteins, which play key roles in autophagy [Oz Levi et al 2012]. TECPR2 regulates targeting of autophagosomes to lysosomes, a process primarily mediated by its carboxy-terminal TECPR domain. In fibroblasts of individuals with homozygous stop codon TECPR2 variants, formation of mature autophagosome was consistent with the notion that TECPR2 plays an important role in late stages of autophagosome targeting to lysosomes [Fraiberg et al 2021]. Ectopic expression of either full-length TECPR2 or the TECPR domain rescued autophagy in fibroblasts of individuals with TECPR2-HSAN with ID in an LIR-dependent manner. Animal models supporting a defect in autophagy include: • Accumulation of autophagosomes in a Tecpr2 knockout mouse [Tamim-Yecheskel et al 2021]. These mice exhibited neuroaxonal dystrophy with development of axonal spheroids in a progressive age-dependent manner in the dorsal column pathway of the brain stem and spinal cord accompanied by sensory pathway defects on behavioral tests, consistent with the hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy observed in individuals with TECPR2 deficiency [Heimer et al 2016]. • Observation of similar findings in Spanish water dogs with a homozygous missense variant (p.Arg1337Trp) in a highly conserved position in the TECPR2 C-terminal region [Hahn et al 2015]. Neuronal loss and spheroid formation were accentuated in the gray matter of the cerebral hemispheres, cerebellum, and brain stem; sporadic spheroids were also found in white matter. Interestingly, in the spinal cord this histopathologic process was restricted to sensory pathways. Mechanism of disease causation. Loss of function; evidence for missense variants is still not sufficient. TECPR2-specific laboratory technical considerations. The lack of functional data has prevented classification of several novel TECPR2 variants [Neuser et al 2021]. Table 7. Notable TECPR2 Pathogenic Variants DNA Nucleotide Predicted Reference Sequences Comment [Reference] Change Protein Change Founder variant in persons of Bukharian c.3416delT p.Leu1139ArgfsTer75 Jewish background [Oz-Levi et al 2012] NM_014844.5 NP_055659.2 Founder variant in persons of Ashkenazi c.1319delT p.Leu440ArgfsTer19 Jewish background [Heimer et al 2016] Variants listed in the table have been provided by the authors. GeneReviews staff have not independently verified the classification of variants. GeneReviews follows the standard naming conventions of the Human Genome Variation Society (varnomen.hgvs.org). See Quick Reference for an explanation of nomenclature. TECPR2-Related Hereditary Sensory and Autonomic Neuropathy with Intellectual Disability 15 Chapter Notes Author Notes Readers are encouraged to contact the authors for questions about research on TECPR2-related hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy with intellectual disability. Dr Gali Heimer and Prof Bruria Ben-Zeev The Edmond
