BioDrugs (2021) 35:255–280
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, dna, bacteriophage, bacterial, host, microbiol, bacteria, therapy, engineering, engineered, genome, cells, coli, therapeutic


certain bacterial diseases and metabolic, immune, or mental disorders. 1 Introduction the richest countries, it did not exceed 50 years. The discov- ery of antibiotics and their introduction into medical prac- Until recently, the human population had been decimated tice in the first half of the 20th century is estimated to have for ages by epidemics of bacterial diseases and wound infec- increased the average lifespan by 23 years and is considered tions, infections during childbirths, food poisoning, and diar- the greatest medical breakthrough of the last century . rhea. In 1900, the average lifespan was 31 years, and even in However, the wide use of antibiotics in medicine, veterinary practice, animal production, and agriculture has brought * about the emergence and spread of antibiotic-resistant bac- Andrzej Górski terial pathogens, leading to a rising frequency of incurable bacterial infections and causing an estimated 700,000 deaths Małgorzata Łobocka each year worldwide [2–4]. The most promising candidates for agents that can replace antibiotics, support their action, 1 Institute of Biochemistry and Biophysics of the Polish or revert the antibiotic resistance phenotypes are bacte- Academy of Sciences, Warsaw, Poland riophages (phages)—viruses that specifically infect bacte- of the Polish Academy of Sciences, Wrocław, Poland Vol.:(0123456789) 2 56 M. Łobocka et al. cells by about one order of magnitude . However, Key Points only recently has a comprehensive insight into the phageo- mes of various environments, including human and animal Recent progress in phage genetic engineering enables skin, gastrointestinal tract, and other body niches, become deliberate modifications of natural phage isolates to possible . During that time, the number of sequenced make them more suitable for therapeutic applications by phage genomes has been rising nearly exponentially . modifying their host specificity and/or improving other According to the most recent classification of the Interna- properties on demand. tional Committee for Taxonomy of Viruses, bacterial viruses are divided into 19 families [38–40]. The natural phage iso- Panels of genetically engineered phages with improved lates selected for therapeutic use belong to the order Cau- therapeutic properties, increased safety and differentiated dovirales (tailed phages), which currently includes ten fami- specificity, based on the genomic scaffolds of selected lies . Their virions consist of a head (capsid), packed well characterized phage isolates, and the ability to with linear double-stranded DNA (dsDNA), and a tail. The acquire them rapidly at a relatively low cost may soon end of the tail contains
