BioDrugs (2021) 35:255–280
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, dna, bacteriophage, bacterial, host, microbiol, bacteria, therapy, engineering, engineered, genome, cells, coli, therapeutic


phage isolates, and the ability to with linear double-stranded DNA (dsDNA), and a tail. The acquire them rapidly at a relatively low cost may soon end of the tail contains proteins allowing phage adsorption lead to therapeutic applications. to its specific host bacterium and its penetration through the Progress in the understanding of the phage–bacteria bacterial cell envelope to introduce the phage DNA . interactions in the human/animal microbiome and their All phages can be seen as delivery vectors. Any genetic influence on health opens up possibilities for the appli- material packed within their capsid can be delivered to the cation of genetically engineered phages to modify the phage-specific host and initiate the development of progeny microbiome composition and thereby attenuate symp- phages and cell lysis or participate in recombination, tran- toms of certain bacterial diseases as well as selected scription, or other processes leading to a phenotype change metabolic, mental, or immune disorders. or death of the infected cell. This opens up various pos- sibilities of phage genome modifications that either do not interfere with the natural processes of phage propagation and packaging or require in vitro packaging of the phage DNA. been regaining interest in recent years, not only due to their Some changes in the phage DNA may be designed to modify proven potential in controlling bacteria, but also owing to the phage capsid so that it gains affinity to certain bacterial their contribution to bacterial adaptation to diverse environ- or eukaryotic cells that normally are not the parental phage ments [7–9], their abundance and unprecedented diversity targets [42–44]. If capsids of such phages are additionally [10–12], their major impact on nearly all environments and packed with cytotoxin-encoding genes or filled with other forms of life [13–17], and the recently expanded possibilities cytotoxic compounds or even a recombinant eukaryotic virus of their targeted modification . genome, they can serve as delivery vectors of their con- The bacterial killing potential of phages, which was tent when, e.g., engulfed by their new target cells [45–51]. appreciated at the time of their discovery, is also the major Finally, the external structure of a phage virion, which in the driving force that has rejuvenated interest in phages today. simplest phages is composed of only a few types of proteins, However, the viral nature of phages makes regulations devel- enables the use of phages as molecular scaffolds for chemi- oped for chemically
