BioDrugs (2021) 35:255–280
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, dna, bacteriophage, bacterial, host, microbiol, bacteria, therapy, engineering, engineered, genome, cells, coli, therapeutic


composed of only a few types of proteins, However, the viral nature of phages makes regulations devel- enables the use of phages as molecular scaffolds for chemi- oped for chemically defined antibacterial drugs inapplicable cal modifications to conjugate them with already approved to phages without substantial changes approved by author- drugs (e.g., ; reviewed in ). An additional advantage ized institutions [20–24]. This requires time. Despite that, of some phages is their ability to penetrate epithelial cell the constantly growing incidence of prolonged, chronic, or layers and to cross the intestine–blood or blood–brain body incurable infections by antibiotic-resistant bacteria, coupled barriers, making them promising drug delivery platforms with the amassing experimental and clinical data proving [54–59]. The methods of phage genome modification differ the antibacterial activity and safety of phages in vivo, even in complexity and depend on the developmental strategies upon intravenous application, urges studies on phages by of the phage of interest (depicted in Fig. 1). themselves [25–34]. But first of all, it prompts the develop- ment of new solutions that would allow humanity to benefit from the antibacterial activity of phages in medical practice. 2 Engineered Phages as Future Therapeutic Moreover, recent genomic and metagenomic discoveries and Options: Rationale and Perspectives progress in genetic engineering and nanotechnology allow one to see the possibility of therapeutic phage applications Traditionally, phages are considered potential antibacterial much broader than previously anticipated. agents that are an alternative to antibiotics. Their advantages Phages are the most abundant entities on Earth, with an estimated number of nearly 1031, exceeding that of bacterial over antibiotics include a narrow specificity range preventing the undesired killing of commensal microbiota, the ability Bacteriophage Engineering for Therapeutic Applications 257 to multiply at the site of their host location as long as the (Fig. 1) [72, 92–96]. They can stay in the infected bacterium host persists, the ability to evolve in response to host evolu- in the form of DNA (a prophage) without causing its lysis (reviewed in ). Most importantly, phages can them toxins, virulence determinants, and regulators of bacte- cure infections with antibiotic-sensitive as well as antibiotic- rial pathogenicity [97–103]. Also certain obligatorily lytic resistant bacterial strains and can also be successfully used phages encode distant homologs of virulence determinants in combination with antibiotics . Metagenomic data on whose functions must be determined before considering the human and animal microbiota expand the possibilities of such phages for
