BioDrugs (2021) 35:255–280
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, dna, bacteriophage, bacterial, host, microbiol, bacteria, therapy, engineering, engineered, genome, cells, coli, therapeutic


of virulence determinants in combination with antibiotics . Metagenomic data on whose functions must be determined before considering the human and animal microbiota expand the possibilities of such phages for medical use (see, e.g., ). Second, the the therapeutic use of phages even further by demonstrating temperate and some obligatorily lytic phages can pack bacte- the previously unsuspected influence of the phageome on the rial DNA to their capsids in place of or in addition to their quantitative and qualitative microbiome composition, which own DNA and inject it into newly infected bacteria, thereby or mental diseases when disturbed [63–73]. Third, even phages with a wide strain range within a patho- It is generally believed that environmental phage popula- genic species typically do not infect all the strains of this tion is so numerous and diversified that there exists a phage species, and the variability of phage receptors and anti- for each and every bacterial strain. However, to be consid- phage defense systems among the bacteria make this one of ered for therapeutic applications, natural phage isolates must the most challenging problems in the development of phage meet certain criteria [74–79]. For obvious reasons the choice preparations for therapy [110–116]. Numerous anti-phage is limited to phages that are obligatorily lytic to kill every defense systems act after phage DNA injection and inacti- not encode any toxins, virulence factors, or antibiotic resist- modification systems and clustered regularly interspaced ance determinants. Additionally, each phage for therapy palindromic repeats [CRISPR]-CRISPR-associated pro- should be well characterized at the genomic and proteomic teins [Cas] systems) or activate a suicidal host response or level, as well as at the level of interaction with its host(s) and dormancy to prevent the infection spread (e.g., toxin–anti- the host’s host. It should efficiently lyse the target bacteria, toxin [TA] systems, abortive infection systems). There is have the widest possible strain range within a pathogenic a multitude of such systems, with different structural and species, be sufficiently stable under storage conditions and functional variants, and the mechanisms of action of several at the sites of infection by the bacteria, be able to overcome of them await elucidation (reviewed in ). Moreo- at least some bacterial phage-resistance mechanisms, and ver, new discoveries constantly expand their list. Addition- cause no undesired immune reactions. Although hundreds ally, a phage treatment of sensitive bacteria may select for of phages targeting bacterial pathogens have been isolated
