BioDrugs (2021) 35:255–280
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, dna, bacteriophage, bacterial, host, microbiol, bacteria, therapy, engineering, engineered, genome, cells, coli, therapeutic


constantly expand their list. Addition- cause no undesired immune reactions. Although hundreds ally, a phage treatment of sensitive bacteria may select for of phages targeting bacterial pathogens have been isolated resistance, and there are no standard methods to prevent the (e.g., [80–91]), none of them fulfills all these criteria, and development of resistance [115, 118–120]. What is more, in fact, none has been characterized with respect to all of the emergence of pathogenic strains among commensal bac- them. First, many if not most DNA phages are temperate teria, e.g., Staphylococcus epidermidis , requires the Fig. 1 Developmental strategies of tailed and filamentous phages. Objects in the scheme are not to scale 2 58 M. Łobocka et al. use of phages that can selectively kill these strains while microbiome, by in situ microbiome engineering [69, 71–73, being safe for the non-pathogenic ones. A major problem 156–159]. in the introduction of phages to medical use is also the lim- ited knowledge of their coding potential and biology. Only 3 Phage Genetic Engineering: Classical a few phages infecting bacteria from about a dozen gen- and Modern Technologies era, mostly used for model studies, have been analyzed in detail with respect to their molecular features, physiology, and interaction with the bacteria, and even for these phages The acquisition of a genetically modified phage comprises the functions of about half of their genes remain unknown two steps: (1) in vivo or in vitro replacement of the entire . phage genome or its fragment with a modified one, and (2) A reasonable strategy to deal with the problem of narrow recovery of the modified phage. Several methods of phage strain specificity could be the development of well character- genome modification have been developed, but each of them ized, single-phage preparations targeting various strains of has limitations and cannot be used for each and every phage a pathogenic species and mixing them on demand, depend- (Table 2). ing on the phage sensitivity profile of the infecting bacteria In the case of filamentous phages whose replicative forms . Such cocktails could be adapted to a given pathogenic (RFs) are circular dsDNA plasmids, this can be done by strain or enriched with new environmental phage isolates in vitro manipulation of the RFs and transfection of the when needed. Although such a strategy fits the current trend resulting DNA to relevant host cells (see Sect. 7 of this to personalize
