BioDrugs (2021) 35:255–280
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, dna, bacteriophage, bacterial, host, microbiol, bacteria, therapy, engineering, engineered, genome, cells, coli, therapeutic


of the RFs and transfection of the when needed. Although such a strategy fits the current trend resulting DNA to relevant host cells (see Sect. 7 of this to personalize medicine and has not only been widely dis- review). A similar approach was used in early studies to cussed but also successfully used , it is commercially modify an integration-deficient mutant of the temperate unattractive, as custom-made phage preparations cannot be phage lambda depleted of certain restriction sites and of a currently approved for medical use . Moreo- large dispensable fragment of its 49-kbp genome . Two ver, even mixtures of phages of different specificity usually essential restriction fragments of the mutant were ligated and searching for natural phages of the missing specificity served to produce modified progeny phages upon transfec- is tedious, time consuming, and often either fails or leads tion of Escherichia coli cells. Lambda-derived vectors with to the isolation of only temperate phages . Even a single cloning site or with two sites flanking the dispen- the so called adaptation of phages to infect resistant strains sable DNA segment to be replaced by an intended insert by selection of natural phage mutants has limited potential were constructed in a similar way [161–163]. They were in the acquisition of phages of new specificities [76, 120, used, e.g., to study functions of bacterial as well as phage 130–133]. genes . Hybrids between lambda and E. coli phages P1, In view of the aforementioned problems, it is obvious T4, and T5 or Bacillus phage SPP1 constructed in that way that the repertoire of natural phages suitable for therapy, were used in studies on the gene functions of these phages the possibility of ensuring their antibacterial efficacy and [165–174]. Overcoming the problem of low transfection effi- safety in vivo, and licensing their medical use are limited. ciency of engineered lambda derivatives became possible A strategy to overcome at least some of these problems with the development of an in vitro lambda packaging sys- could instead rely on the construction of desired therapeutic tem (reviewed by Chauthaiwale et al. ). In this system, phages by engineering selected, well characterized, natural the lambda cos sequences, which separate the phage genome phage isolates . The introduction of genetically engi- units in a substrate for DNA packaging and are cut to form neered (GE) phages into medical practice could have several cohesive ends, can serve
