BioDrugs (2021) 35:255–280
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, dna, bacteriophage, bacterial, host, microbiol, bacteria, therapy, engineering, engineered, genome, cells, coli, therapeutic


phage infection of a bacterium with a fragment of the phage DNA (donor DNA) carrying a desired modifica- tion and cloned in a plasmid [18, 179–181]. Recombinants were subsequently recovered from among progeny phages. If any host specificity-determining gene was exchanged into one from a different phage, they could even be directly selected as forming plaques on the new host . However, the use of such methods is possible only when the phage host can be transformed with the plasmid and when a restriction-deficient host mutant is available, as in the case of, e.g., E. coli K-12 or Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 and also Mycobacterium smegmatis. While temperate phages modified with this technique can be recovered by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) screening of single plaques follow- ing induction of lysogens, in the case of obligatorily lytic phages that degrade host DNA at infection, the frequency of recombination is extremely low. The recovery of recom- binants may be facilitated by incorporating a marker gene into the donor DNA, allowing phenotypic differentiation of modified phage plaques , or better, a specific host gene if such is required for phage development [185–187]. In the latter case, an appropriate bacterial mutant has to be used to obtain only recombinant phages. A technique that allows increasing the in vivo recombina- tion frequency is based on the use of linear donor DNA and phage lambda recombination proteins Gam, Bet, and Exo, which protect linear dsDNA from host exonucleases (Gam) and efficiently promote homologous recombination between linear donor DNA and homologous target DNA . This technique, known as recombineering and independent of host recombination functions, was initially applied to modify the E. coli chromosome, plasmids, and temperate phages [189–193]. It also increases the frequency of recombinant formation upon lytic phage infection of cells containing the donor DNA in a plasmid or in the form of a linear fragment, )deunitnoc( 2 elbaT segatnavdasiD segatnavdA ygetarts noitacfiidoM smrof-L tneicfiorp noitamrofsnart dna tneicfied-M-R seriuqeR eb ot semoneg egahp citehtnys ylluf ro defiidom swollA nosbiG htiw airetcab fo smrof-L ni gnitoober emoneg egahP egahp fo tnempoleved ralullecartni gnitroppus airetcab eht fo ortiv ni delbmessa pets ylbmessa emoneg etaidemretni na sa dohtem defiidom eb ot segahp EG esaeler ot smrof-L fo sisyl cinotopyh seriuqeR -eps gnireffid fo segahp dereenigne fo yrevocer eht swollA elbitapmoc yllacilobatem airetcab fo smrof-L morf seiticfiic noitcefni ot evitisnes ylirassecen ton tub tsoh egahp eht htiw segahp eht fo
