BioDrugs (2021) 35:255–280
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, dna, bacteriophage, bacterial, host, microbiol, bacteria, therapy, engineering, engineered, genome, cells, coli, therapeutic


seriuqeR -eps gnireffid fo segahp dereenigne fo yrevocer eht swollA elbitapmoc yllacilobatem airetcab fo smrof-L morf seiticfiic noitcefni ot evitisnes ylirassecen ton tub tsoh egahp eht htiw segahp eht fo yna htiw sisehtnys egahp etelpmoc fo ycneicffie wol ylemertxE fo tnednepedni ,ebut tset a ni noitcudorp egahp EG swollA dna noitpircsnart eerf-llec a ni segahp dereenigne fo sisehtnyS tsoh egahp )LTXT( metsys noitalsnart dezisehtnys yb tsoh eht fo ycneicffie noitcefni hgih seriuqeR tsoc woL yrevocer egahp tneicffie wolla ot egahp EG ,AND dednarts-elbuod ANDsd ,staeper cimordnilap decapsretni ylraluger deretsulc RPSIRC ,snietorp detaicossa-RPSIRC saC ,AND detaroportcele fo gnireenibmocer egahpoiretcab DERB AND dednarts-elgnis ANDss ,noitacfiidom-noitcirtser M-R ,noitcaer niahc esaremylop RCP ,dereenigne yllaciteneg 2 62 M. Łobocka et al. Fig. 2 In vivo homologous recombination-based methods of bacte- recombineering of electroporated DNA, Cas CRISPR-associated pro- riophage genome modification. Proteins depicted on the scheme of teins, Cas9 nuclease Cas9, CRISPR clustered regularly interspaced recombineering represent phage λ proteins that were originally used palindromic repeats, crRNA CRISPR RNA, dsDNA double-stranded in this method . Bet and its homologs/analogs are sufficient for DNA, Exo and RecE phage λ or prophage Rac 5′-3’ exonucleases, recombineering with ssDNA substrates as donors (reviewed in ). respectively, that degrade dsDNA to expose the created 3’ single- Phage proteins depicted on the scheme of BRED represent Escheri- stranded ends for binding of Bet or RecT (respectively), Gam phage chia coli prophage Rac proteins RecE and RecT, whose mycobacte- λ protein increasing recombination frequency by inhibiting dsDNA rial phage Che9c homologs (gp60 and gp61) were originally used in substrate degradation by E. coli RecBCD, PCR polymerase chain this method . Recombination with the use of RecE and RecT reaction, RecA bacterial recombinase RecA, ssDNA single-stranded does not require Gam (reviewed in ). Bet and RecT phage λ or DNA prophage Rac single-strand annealing proteins, BRED bacteriophage but a successful recovery of recombinants requires the devel- E. coli, M. smegmatis, and Salmonella enterica, giving the opment of their direct selection method . Recom- recovery efficiency of recombinant phage of ca. 20%, which bineering allows the recombination to occur in E. coli with allowed for their identification by PCR plaque screening homologous DNA ends as short as 50 bp . Its further . modification, known as bacteriophage recombineering of If the BRED method cannot be used and the duration of electroporated DNA (BRED), was developed to facilitate the the phage and donor DNA co-existence
