BioDrugs (2021) 35:255–280
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, dna, bacteriophage, bacterial, host, microbiol, bacteria, therapy, engineering, engineered, genome, cells, coli, therapeutic


known as bacteriophage recombineering of If the BRED method cannot be used and the duration of electroporated DNA (BRED), was developed to facilitate the the phage and donor DNA co-existence in the cell is short, modification of obligatorily lytic phages and lytic mutants of the problem of an extreme scarcity of recombinants can be temperate phages . In BRED, phage DNA and a circumvented by applying a counter selection of phages that linear fragment of homologous DNA with a desired change did not acquire the intended modification. This can be done are electroporated together into a phage-sensitive host cell with the use of CRISPR-Cas systems [203–205]. These sys- containing E. coli phage lambda or prophage Rac proteins tems, identified in ~ 42% of bacteria, protect their native (Exo and Bet, and RecE and RecT, respectively), or their hosts from reinfection with foreign DNA . The homologs from other phages [199–201]. Recombinant CRISPR regions consist of 28- to 37-bp repeats of a con- phages are recovered upon cell lysis and infection of a sen- served sequence interspersed with short spacers, which are a sitive host by PCR screening of plaques. However, the need bank of immunological memory that stores DNA fragments for bacteria to be electroporated to carry a plasmid express- from past invaders (plasmids or phages) . The CRISPR ing the recombination-promoting proteins limits the appli- regions are linked to cas genes encoding proteins respon- cation of this method to transformation-proficient bacterial sible for RNA-guided recognition and cleavage of invad- strains for which relevant plasmids are available. BRED has ing DNA sequences corresponding to the spacer regions. been used for engineering of lytic phages infecting, e.g., The guiding RNA fragments (CRISPR RNA [crRNA]) are Bacteriophage Engineering for Therapeutic Applications 263 generated by chopping CRISPR-region transcripts into units cells to assemble linear dsDNA fragments with homologous including a spacer and an upstream repeat sequence, which termini into a single molecule by recombination . Com- serves to distinguish between host and non-host sequences plete phage genomes inserted into a yeast mini-chromosome [209–211]. To achieve the elimination of unmodified phages, (YAC) were obtained upon transformation of yeast cells with the cell to be infected has to contain (1) a plasmid carrying several PCR-amplified phage DNA fragments of up to 11 a phage genome donor fragment with the desired modifica- kbp overlapping at the ends, and with PCR-amplified YAC tion and (2) a single
