BioDrugs (2021) 35:255–280
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, dna, bacteriophage, bacterial, host, microbiol, bacteria, therapy, engineering, engineered, genome, cells, coli, therapeutic


phage DNA fragments of up to 11 a phage genome donor fragment with the desired modifica- kbp overlapping at the ends, and with PCR-amplified YAC tion and (2) a single CRISPR repeat followed by a spacer DNA carrying regions of homology to the ends of the phage sequence representing the wild-type phage fragment to be DNA to be assembled . Swapping the genomic frag- replaced by the donor DNA and followed by the cas gene(s) ments encoding receptor-binding proteins (RBPs) or their of a given CRISPR-Cas system. . The latter fragments between T7 and related phages specific for dif- can be provided on a plasmid or on the chromosome. Only ferent bacterial hosts allowed the construction of hybrids recombinant phages containing the donor sequence in place with a single genomic scaffold and small regions encoding of the wild-type DNA, formed via homologous recombi- specificity determinants and with different host specific- nation by the host-encoded machinery, will be resistant to ity. A functional Salmonella phage FelixO1 of an 86.2-kbp crRNA-guided degradation. A customized CRISPR-Cas sys- genome could also be recovered from assembled genomic tem from Streptococcus pyogenes, which requires only one fragments cloned in a YAC in yeast cells . protein (Cas9) for crRNA processing and target recognition Although the use of yeast cells for the recovery of engi- and cleavage , has successfully been used to introduce neered phage genomes has several advantages over other point mutations, deletions, or insertions to the genomes of methods and allows constructing fully synthetic phage obligatorily lytic phages infecting Gram-negative as well genomes, its disadvantage is the necessity to transform as Gram-positive hosts [187, 205, 213–218]. A customized bacteria with the phage genomic DNA isolated from yeast CRISPR-Cas10 system from S. epidermidis, which requires cells to acquire functional phages. This limits the use of this a protein complex to perform its editing function and can method to bacteria that can be made highly competent for target only actively transcribed sequences, has been used the uptake of large DNA molecules. to modify the genomes of S. epidermidis and Staphylococ- A strategy to overcome this obstacle has been developed cus aureus lytic phages ranging in size from 18 to 148 kbp by Kilcher et al. and used to engineer temperate as . The CRISPR-Cas systems allow a single-step well as obligatorily lytic phages with genomes of up to 154 introduction of traceless changes in phage DNA
