BioDrugs (2021) 35:255–280
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, dna, bacteriophage, bacterial, host, microbiol, bacteria, therapy, engineering, engineered, genome, cells, coli, therapeutic


used to engineer temperate as . The CRISPR-Cas systems allow a single-step well as obligatorily lytic phages with genomes of up to 154 introduction of traceless changes in phage DNA with high kbp infecting Listeria monocytogenes or related Gram- efficiency (40–100%) without additional screening or selec- positive hosts. The genomes with designed modifications tion procedures . were assembled enzymatically in vitro into circular forms The above methods are not applicable to phages infect- from PCR-amplified and/or synthetic DNA fragments with ing only bacteria with active restriction systems or bacteria overlapping ends with the Gibson method . They were for which efficient transformation procedures have not been then used to transform so called L-forms of specific L. developed. Additionally, none of them can be used to simul- monocytogenes strain cells, which are deprived of the cell taneously edit multiple unlinked loci in a phage genome. The wall, can grow in osmotically stabilized media, and can be methods that were developed recently and revolutionized transformed with large DNA molecules . Phages pro- the strategy of phage genome modifications use wall-less duced in the L-form cells were released by hypotonic lysis bacteria or yeast cells to reboot the genomes of obligatorily and used to infect their specific bacterial host to propagate. lytic phages constructed from DNA fragments [122, 221, Surprisingly, the L-forms of L. monocytogenes could be used 222]. Jaschke et al. assembled from PCR-amplified not only to reboot efficiently the synthetic genomes of Lis- or chemically synthesized DNA fragments an engineered teria phages, but also those of Bacillus and Staphylococcus 5.4-kbp genome of phage φX174. The engineered DNA phages, indicating a general applicability of L-form bacteria was ligated with a yeast plasmid vector and transformed to for phage genome engineering. yeast cells. Transformants selected for the presence of the While the propagation of a complete engineered phage recombinant plasmid were used to isolate large quantities can be initiated by a single infection of a sensitive host, the of plasmid DNA, which was then restriction digested to dependence of such phage acquisition on living cells poses recover the phage genome. The obtained phage DNA was a problem. These obstacles have been overcome recently by circularized by ligation and used to transfect cells of an E. the development of new-generation cell-free transcription coli strain that is normally resistant to φX174 infection, but and translation systems (TXTLs) that enable the synthesis can propagate the phage.
