BioDrugs (2021) 35:255–280
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, dna, bacteriophage, bacterial, host, microbiol, bacteria, therapy, engineering, engineered, genome, cells, coli, therapeutic


an E. the development of new-generation cell-free transcription coli strain that is normally resistant to φX174 infection, but and translation systems (TXTLs) that enable the synthesis can propagate the phage. The progeny phages could infect a of complete phages (virions) in the test tube using a suitable φX174 sensitive host. Ando et al. extended this strat- phage genome as a template and E. coli cytoplasmic extract egy to phage T7 and its relatives whose genomes are in the enriched with certain components [227–229]. E. coli phages range of 37–45 kbp. They used the natural ability of yeast of diverse genomes, such as MS2 (3.6 kb, RNA), φX174 2 64 M. Łobocka et al. (5.4 kb, single-stranded DNA [ssDNA]), and T7 (40 kbp, The toxin release caused by the lytic action of a phage dsDNA), could be synthesized in this way, with efficiency may cause serious side effects during phage therapy. There- reaching about 0.5, 0.6, and 2.2 phages per genome copy, fore, a phage eliminating target bacteria without causing respectively . This method appeared to be suitable even their lysis would alleviate these concerns. Paul et al. for the synthesis of the large lytic phage T4 with a 170-kbp developed a recombinant endolysin-deficient staphylococ- genome, albeit with a trace efficiency only (0.001 phages per cal phage unable to cause lysis, but still lethal to methicil- genome). Although a cell-free T4 reconstruction has so far lin-resistant S. aureus. The recombinant phage was highly been demonstrated from a wild-type T4 genome only, the efficient in rescuing mice infected with a lethal dose of S. method is suitable for the acquisition of engineered phages aureus. In similar experiments, lysis-deficient phages infect- as well, provided that the engineered variants are functional ing P. aeruginosa or E. coli provided better protection to and can be recovered upon infection of the phage host. A mice from a lethal dose of these bacteria than did their wild- recently developed cell-free, de novo phage genome assem- type counterparts . In all the above cases, the bly technology from chemically synthesized oligonucleo- phages suitable for therapy could be efficiently propagated tides, which was shown to allow the assembling of a 4.3-kbp in hosts complementing their endolysin function to obtain Acinetobacter phage genome at a cost below $0.015 per bp high titer lysates. , may soon enable various variants of engineered phage One of the most challenging features of known
