BioDrugs (2021) 35:255–280
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, dna, bacteriophage, bacterial, host, microbiol, bacteria, therapy, engineering, engineered, genome, cells, coli, therapeutic


Acinetobacter phage genome at a cost below $0.015 per bp high titer lysates. , may soon enable various variants of engineered phage One of the most challenging features of known phages genomes to be obtained on demand and at a low price. High suitable for antibacterial therapies is their limited host range. throughput systems to transform such synthetic genomes The mechanisms determining the susceptibility of bacteria into appropriate cells to recover functional phages (when to a given phage are highly differentiated, and the list of possible) may soon speed up the functional analysis of phage known ones is constantly expanding [112, 115, 239–241]. genes as well as the acquisition of phages with desired prop- The initiation of phage infection requires recognition and erties for therapeutic use. binding to surface receptors on the host cell. Mapping of the variable domains of phage RBPs, which form tail fib- ers or tail spikes , allows targeted mutagenesis 4 P hage Genetic Engineering to Modify of their genes or shuffling between phages of different host Phages for Traditional Phage Therapy specificities to generate phage variants infecting a wider or changed repertoire of hosts without compromising their The validity of the idea of using genomes of well character- lytic activity [182, 221, 243–247]. Moreover, the determina- ized obligatorily lytic phages as scaffolds to construct their tion of intradomain structures of RBPs allows an antibody- derivatives with desired properties with the help of genetic engineering-like approach to change the structure of their engineering has been proven in several studies. Numer- fragments interacting with the host receptors to fit them to, ous features of phages constructed based on such scaffolds e.g., mutationally changed receptors conferring to bacteria appeared to be modifiable, with no or just slight interfer- resistance to a given phage . Selected phages infecting ence with other phage properties. For instance, an engi- E. coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Yersinia pseudotuberculo- neered phage T7 expressing the biofilm-degrading enzyme sis, P. aeruginosa, or Acinetobacter baumannii, the model dispersin reduced biofilm cell counts with an efficacy two E. coli phages T2, T4, and T7 among them, have already orders of magnitude higher than the wild-type phage . been used as scaffolds to construct variants with modified An engineered virulent Erwinia amylovora phage Y2 with host specificity . Engineering the RBPs may be a wide strain range that was enriched with a gene encoding especially useful for rapid acquisition of
