BioDrugs (2021) 35:255–280
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, dna, bacteriophage, bacterial, host, microbiol, bacteria, therapy, engineering, engineered, genome, cells, coli, therapeutic


Erwinia amylovora phage Y2 with host specificity . Engineering the RBPs may be a wide strain range that was enriched with a gene encoding especially useful for rapid acquisition of variants of well the exopolysaccharide depolymerase of phage L1, showed characterized phages capable of infecting emerging patho- increased infectivity and killing efficacy and the ability to gens of new serotypes. For instance, a derivative of phage reduce the E. amylovora contamination of flowers as com- T2 infecting E. coli O157:H7 was constructed by replacing pared to the wild-type phage . Phage T7 engineered to genes encoding the tip of the T2 long tail fiber with those of display lipids on the capsid showed a significantly increased a new phage isolate specific for this E. coli serotype . stability in simulated gastrointestinal tract conditions, indi- Temperate phages have generally been seen as unsuitable cating possible directions to obtaining therapeutic phages for for traditional phage therapy due to their adaptive effects on oral delivery . Phage T7 enriched with a gene encoding the bacteria they infect (including pathogens) and their par- lactonase, an enzyme that degrades acyl homoserine lactone ticipation in horizontal gene transfer . However, animal (a quorum-sensing signaling molecule required for biofilm studies indicate that such phages can also have therapeutic formation by bacteria of many species), inhibited the biofilm potential . Moreover, phages of an obligatorily formation when added to mixed-species biofilms containing lytic phenotype derived from temperate phages by sponta- E. coli and P. aeruginosa . neous mutations have been identified among environmental isolates or upon induction of lysogens [251–253]. The use Bacteriophage Engineering for Therapeutic Applications 265 of temperate phages in therapy need not be considered when initiation, reaching a titer of ≥ 109 PFU/ml, and became lytic phages of a desired host specificity are available. If this undetectable 6 days later. Although no formal proof of is not the case, obligatorily lytic phages of the missing spe- the phage therapy effectiveness has been provided (it was cificities can be obtained from appropriate temperate phages an uncontrolled study, during which the patient was also by the removal from their genomes of genomic modules receiving other treatments, e.g., antibiotics, which could essential for lysogeny and, if present, also those encoding have contributed to the final outcome), the results of this virulence determinants . Such modified experimental use of GE phages in human treatment indi- phages, although not the
