BioDrugs (2021) 35:255–280
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, dna, bacteriophage, bacterial, host, microbiol, bacteria, therapy, engineering, engineered, genome, cells, coli, therapeutic


those encoding have contributed to the final outcome), the results of this virulence determinants . Such modified experimental use of GE phages in human treatment indi- phages, although not the first choice, can be further engi- cated that (1) a prolonged intravenous administration of GE neered to enhance their lytic potential or broaden the host phage is possible without harm to the patient, while produc- range. An advantage of temperate phages is the easiness of ing high therapeutic phage levels in the serum, suggesting their genetic modifications in the lysogenic state, when their phage multiplication in vivo, and (2) even intravenous phage DNA is integrated with the bacterial chromosome. Several administration in a human patient does not provoke antibody temperate phages modified to deprive them of the ability production that could interfere with its therapeutic efficacy. to lysogenize bacteria appeared to be effective as targeted The experiment also confirmed earlier data from patients antibacterials in in vitro and in vivo experiments . For who received wild-type phages by oral or topical adminis- instance, the temperate Burkholderia siphovirus KS9 con- tration . verted to a lytic variant by disrupting the phage repressor An important question is whether phages can kill intracel- gene rescued Galleria mellonella infected experimentally lular bacteria. Phage genetic engineering may help to resolve with Burkholderia cenocepacia . A recombinant of a this problem. Møller-Olsen et al. used CRISPR-Cas- temperate Enterococcus faecalis phage with an E. faeca- based selection to obtain a GE derivative of a T7-like phage, lis prophage, which was converted to a lysogeny-deficient K1F, equipped with a gene for green fluorescence protein variant insensitive to the phage repressor by the removal or (GFP). The GFP-labeled phage showed some delay in infec- modification of lysogeny-associated genome modules, mark- tion as compared to wild-type K1F . However, tracing edly decreased the residual E. faecalis population and the K1F-GFP by fluorescence microscopy demonstrated its abil- biofilm biomass of both vancomycin-sensitive and resistant ity to penetrate human urinary bladder epithelial cells and strains in extracted human dentin root segments [254, 256, human cerebral microvascular cells. Moreover, the phage 257]. A derivative of L. monocytogenes PSA phage depleted was able to kill inside human cells a hybrid between E. coli of genes essential for lysogeny and enriched with an addi- strains K12 and K1, the latter being a nosocomial pathogen tional endolysin gene from a different Listeria phage formed responsible for
