BioDrugs (2021) 35:255–280
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, dna, bacteriophage, bacterial, host, microbiol, bacteria, therapy, engineering, engineered, genome, cells, coli, therapeutic


genes essential for lysogeny and enriched with an addi- strains K12 and K1, the latter being a nosocomial pathogen tional endolysin gene from a different Listeria phage formed responsible for urinary tract infections, meningitis, and sep- larger plaques than the original phage and also could lyse sis . cells of a PSA-resistant serovar of Listeria . The first case of a human phage therapy with GE phages 5 Future Possibilities to Extend the Host was described by Dedrick et al. (2019) . A cystic fibro- Range of Phages by Genetic Engineering sis patient underwent lung transplantation, which was com- plicated by Mycobacterium abscessus infection resistant to multiple antibiotics administered intravenously. Of the hun- Attempts to construct phages with extended host range by dreds of mycobacterial phages tested, only one efficiently genetic engineering have been focused on manipulations killed the infecting strain, and two others were temperate with phage genes encoding RBPs, as summarized in Sect. 4 and inefficient in the infection. A lytic derivative of one of . However, the phage host range depends not only the latter obtained by genetic engineering gained high lytic on the phage’s ability to penetrate bacterial extracellular activity against the infecting M. abscessus by the acquisition polymers or to interact with a bacterial cell receptor and of a host range mutation, and an efficient lytic derivative inject the phage DNA, but also on phage-encoded mecha- of the second one was constructed with BRED to remove nisms overcoming the post-infective bacterial anti-phage its phage repressor gene precisely . The three- defense. Their multitude seems to correspond to the multi- phage cocktail (including two temperate phages engineered tude of bacterial anti-phage defense mechanisms . The to become effective lytically) was administered every 12 h anti-restriction and anti-CRISPR mechanisms are the best intravenously for 32 weeks. The treatment was well toler- known. The former operate by avoiding relevant restriction ated, with no major side effects, evidence of organ toxic- sites in phage DNA, titrating out restriction enzymes, physi- ity, or significant increase in the level of pro-inflammatory cally protecting phage DNA from host restrictase access, cytokines, allowing the patient to be discharged home while modifying the phage DNA, or stimulating the host DNA- still on phage therapy. The therapy resulted in significant modifying enzymes to make the DNA resistant to restric- could be detected in the patient’s serum 1 day after therapy by inducing the degradation of
