BioDrugs (2021) 35:255–280
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, dna, bacteriophage, bacterial, host, microbiol, bacteria, therapy, engineering, engineered, genome, cells, coli, therapeutic


The therapy resulted in significant modifying enzymes to make the DNA resistant to restric- could be detected in the patient’s serum 1 day after therapy by inducing the degradation of Cas nucleases, disruption of 2 66 M. Łobocka et al. DNA binding, or inhibition of target cleavage [270–273]. only the conserved location of their genes in the genomes of Numerous anti-CRISPR (Acrs) proteins identified so far related phages can serve as a guide for their identification comprise at least 46 families, and a machine-learning in . While some of them provide protection against silico approach allowed the identification of at least 2500 multiple phages, others have been found to be specific only additional candidates [274–277]. When a gene encoding an for one of the phages tested [291–294]. Notably, lysogeny is Acr protein(s) is present in a phage or cloned in a plasmid common in clinically relevant bacteria . Therefore, in a cell with its target CRISPR-Cas system, it can suppress discovery and understanding of the prophage-encoded anti- the action of this system . This opens wide pos- phage defense system and identification of phage-encoded sibilities to construct GE phages containing appropriate acr mechanisms to overcome them may appear to be critical genes able to overcome specific types of acquired CRISPR- for successful development of GE phages with wide strain Cas-mediated immunity and may counteract the immunity to specificity highly effective therapeutically. the phage acquired by bacteria during phage therapy . Similarly, the incorporation into the phage genome of genes 6 New Directions in Phage Genetic encoding specific anti-restriction proteins could extend the Engineering to Expand the Possibilities host range of such GE phages to the hosts whose restriction- of Phage Therapy modification systems would otherwise prevent the infection when the ratio of infecting phages to bacteria is not high enough to break the restriction-modification barrier. Phage replication and bacterial cell lysis, which accom- Some phages encode homologs/analogs of antitoxins of pany a productive phage infection and are considered to be certain bacterial TA systems . They were advantages of traditional phage therapy, can be considered shown or predicted to replace bacterial antitoxins whose to be disadvantageous as well. Lysis leads to the release of supply upon phage infection could stop, leading to the bacterial toxins and can potentially cause undesired inflam- death or dormancy of the infected cell. The enrichment matory reactions, while phage replication during therapy of GE phages
