BioDrugs (2021) 35:255–280
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, dna, bacteriophage, bacterial, host, microbiol, bacteria, therapy, engineering, engineered, genome, cells, coli, therapeutic


leading to the bacterial toxins and can potentially cause undesired inflam- death or dormancy of the infected cell. The enrichment matory reactions, while phage replication during therapy of GE phages with genes encoding antitoxins of their host may raise concerns about further uncontrolled phage spread. TA systems could increase the therapeutic efficacy of such Thus, there is an increasing interest in the use of phages to phages by enabling their lytic development and facilitating deliver to bacteria a lethal or regulatory load inserted in the their spread at the infection site. phage genome by genetic engineering to achieve a thera- Bacterial anti-phage defense genes including those that peutic effect while attenuating lysis of bacteria, preventing encode restriction-modification, TA, and CRISPR-Cas sys- phage replication, or both. Temperate phages are naturally tems tend to cluster in so called defense islands . suited for this purpose. However, obligatorily lytic phages The systematic, ongoing analysis of other genes of these that are defective in lytic development in a non-laboratory islands has brought about the discovery of new anti-phage host can be used as well. defense systems of surprisingly differentiated mechanisms Among the most promising lethal loads that can specifi- of action and high protective efficacy [117, 282–287]. Some cally eradicate bacteria of certain species or strains within of them stem from the same evolutionary origin as anti-viral complex microbial communities in a sequence-specific systems of eukaryotic cells and can be complemented by rel- manner without causing their massive lysis are program- evant eukaryotic genes [287–290]. The design of therapeutic mable CRISPR-Cas-based gene cassettes. In a pioneering GE phages of wide strain range will benefit from future iden- experiment, Bikard et al. used an engineered temper- tification of phage strategies to evade these newly discovered ate S. aureus φMN1 phage derivative to deliver to its host anti-phage defense systems. bacteria a CRISPR-Cas module with spacers targeting cer- The least known repertoire of genes that could extend tain S. aureus virulence genes. The GE phage selectively the host range of GE phages when inserted to their genomes killed only the S. aureus strains carrying the targeted genes comprises phage genes whose products help to evade when used to infect a mixed S. aureus population of virulent prophage-encoded anti-phage defense mechanisms that and avirulent strains in laboratory culture or on the skin of protect lysogens from superinfection by other phages, espe- infected mice. Similar φMN1 derivatives targeting
