BioDrugs (2021) 35:255–280
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, dna, bacteriophage, bacterial, host, microbiol, bacteria, therapy, engineering, engineered, genome, cells, coli, therapeutic


prophage-encoded anti-phage defense mechanisms that and avirulent strains in laboratory culture or on the skin of protect lysogens from superinfection by other phages, espe- infected mice. Similar φMN1 derivatives targeting antibiotic cially unrelated ones. While a few examples of such gene resistance determinants selectively killed antibiotic-resistant products have a long history of study, how numerous and S. aureus strains in a mixed population. Additionally, by diversified the mechanisms of action of the remaining ones lysogenization of the antibiotic susceptible cells, the phage are and how many various stages of phage infection and made them immune to the acquisition of the resistance-con- development they can interfere with is only beginning to be ferring genes. Park et al. integrated a CRISPR-Cas9 discovered (for an extensive review, see ). They are typ- system targeting the nuc gene, unique to S. aureus, into the ically encoded by accessory genes of temperate phages and genome of a temperate S. aureus phage. To broaden the host show no homology to proteins of known function, and often range of the GE phage, the strain for its propagation was Bacteriophage Engineering for Therapeutic Applications 267 transformed with a plasmid carrying the tail fiber genes of a host range for transduction can be achieved by epigenetic broad-range S. aureus phage. The GE phage produced in this modifications of the DNA to be transduced to prevent its strain showed high in vitro efficacy in eliminating S. aureus restriction in recipient cells . and was effective in vivo in reducing the bacterial burden of infected mouse skin. A similar approach gave promis- 7 Engineered Filamentous Phages ing results in a rat model of soft tissue infection where the reduction of S. aureus burden by a GE phage was similar to in Therapies of Bacterial Infections that obtained with a high-dose antibiotic treatment . Likewise, a temperate Clostridium difficile phage was engi- While the phages used in traditional phage therapy have a neered by removing key lysogeny genes and arming it with complex virion structure and encode from 20 to over 300 dif- a CRISPR module targeting a C. difficile genomic sequence ferent functions, at least half of them unknown, genetic engi- . The lytic phage obtained reduced the C. difficile bur- neering has opened up the possibility of modifying phages den in vivo and decreased disease severity. of simple structure and smaller genomes for therapeutic use. In addition to targeted killing
