BioDrugs (2021) 35:255–280
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, dna, bacteriophage, bacterial, host, microbiol, bacteria, therapy, engineering, engineered, genome, cells, coli, therapeutic


neering has opened up the possibility of modifying phages den in vivo and decreased disease severity. of simple structure and smaller genomes for therapeutic use. In addition to targeted killing of bacteria without their Filamentous phages, which are workhorses in the phage dis- lysis, the concept of using phages as delivery vectors of spe- play technology, appear to be the most promising candidates modifying human or animal microbiota phenotypically, in but are constantly secreted by infected cells, thereby decreas- a non-lethal way. With the increasing knowledge about the ing the host growth rate (Fig. 1). Their virions, composed of and the molecular mechanisms of bacterial pathogenicity, in diameter. Their length is not as tightly controlled as is the microbiome modifications may turn out to be more effec- size of icosahaedral phage capsids, allowing the insertion tive in the long run than killing of the bacteria . For of more additional DNA. The filamentous phage genome, instance, a temperate GE phage carrying a transcriptional typically comprising 11 genes, is an ssDNA molecule in the repressor of Shiga toxin (Stx) gene was successfully used virion, but assumes a double-stranded (dsDNA) circular RF to repress Stx in an established E. coli population coloniz- during phage propagation. It can be isolated from host bac- ing the gut in mice. The phage propagated in the gut and teria by methods used for plasmid isolation, then engineered markedly reduced the fecal Stx concentration . A novel in vitro and introduced back to the cells by transformation. approach to fight antibiotic-resistant bacteria with the use of If it contains all the genes necessary for phage propagation a temperate GE phage was developed by Edgar et al. . and release, it can initiate the production of mature phages. Lambda-derived phages carrying dominant alleles of respec- Plasmids that contain an origin of dsDNA replication and tive genes causing sensitivity to streptomycin or nalidixic an origin for ssDNA replication derived from a filamentous acid reverted the antibiotic resistance phenotypes caused by phage (so called phagemids) can be packed in the single- recessive mutations in those genes in the bacteria. stranded form into filamentous phage virions if the other An innovative approach to deliver any programmed phage functions are provided in trans by a helper plasmid genetic load to bacteria by phages was proposed by Yosef . Filamentous phages adsorb to retractable bacterial et al. . The method is based on
