BioDrugs (2021) 35:255–280
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, dna, bacteriophage, bacterial, host, microbiol, bacteria, therapy, engineering, engineered, genome, cells, coli, therapeutic


trans by a helper plasmid genetic load to bacteria by phages was proposed by Yosef . Filamentous phages adsorb to retractable bacterial et al. . The method is based on the transducing capa- pili and have a narrow host range . However, parts bilities of phages and not only prevents phage propagation of their RBPs can be engineered to adsorb into bacteria of in the target bacteria, but also allows the spectrum of target different species by replacement with suitable parts of RBPs bacteria to be extended to those that can be infected but from other filamentous phages infecting those species . strated with the use of T7-derived defective phages, whose redirected towards bacteria that are not their natural hosts certain essential functions, including tail fiber genes, were by phage display-based selection of GE phages exposing provided in trans from a plasmid carried by the phage-prop- peptides that bind those bacteria or that bind antibodies agating host. The genetic load to be delivered to the target against them. Yacoby et al. engineered M13-derived cells was provided in a separate plasmid, which also con- phages to bind S. aureus cells and conjugated them chemi- tained a site required to initiate DNA packaging to phage cally with chloramphenicol. The S. aureus-killing efficacy heads. Initial experiments on the delivery of an antibiotic of the phage-conjugated chloramphenicol was several orders resistance marker to evaluate the frequency of transduction of magnitude higher than that of free drug. demonstrated the great potential of this strategy for thera- Filamentous phage capsids packed with phagemid DNA peutic applications upon its further development. Moreover, can deliver their genetic load to the infected cells to kill them mutagenesis of the tail fiber genes present in the plasmid or to modify their metabolism. For instance, M13-derived complementing the lacking functions of the phage could phagemids engineered to encode antimicrobial peptides extend the phage host range. An additional extension of the (AMPs) and toxins disrupting diverse bacterial intracellular 2 68 M. Łobocka et al. processes caused rapid, non-lytic death of bacteria in labora- an overview of potential uses of such “nature-made nano- tory culture and were effective in vivo in a murine peritonitis particles” . infection model . Another M13-derived GE phagemid specifically killed its host E. coli cells by delivering genes 8 Engineering Phages to Control Phage encoding bactericidal proteins . A filamentous phage of the P. aeruginosa PAO1 strain engineered
