BioDrugs (2021) 35:255–280
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, dna, bacteriophage, bacterial, host, microbiol, bacteria, therapy, engineering, engineered, genome, cells, coli, therapeutic


specifically killed its host E. coli cells by delivering genes 8 Engineering Phages to Control Phage encoding bactericidal proteins . A filamentous phage of the P. aeruginosa PAO1 strain engineered by replacing Pharmacokinetics its export protein gene with a restriction endonuclease gene could not replicate in the absence of a complementing export The control of phage pharmacokinetics by engineering relies gene nor could lyse cells, but caused chopping of their on modifying phage interactions with the immune system chromosomes, leading to bacterial death without a massive as the major factor determining the phage fate in vivo release of endotoxin or a significant inflammatory response [315–320]. Typical modifications involve making virions . More importantly, it could rescue mice infected with ‘invisible’ to the immune system, mostly to its innate part, a lethal dose of PAO1 . which is capable of removing phages without their specific Lu and Collins engineered an M13-based phagemid recognition. Chemical modifications and microencapsula- to overproduce the repressor protein of the E. coli SOS tion, for instance, PEGylation or lyposomal preparations, response system, which activates the pathways of oxidative have been used to help the phage escape filtration and metab- DNA damage repair, e.g., in response to certain bacteri- olism in the human/animal organism. This approach will cidal antibiotics such as quinolones, exerting their action by not be presented here in more detail as it does not involve inducing DNA damage and leading to cell death. Inhibiting specific engineering of the phage; an expert review of this the E. coli SOS system with such a phage enhanced the bac- topic has been published recently by Malik et al. . tericidal action of quinolones in vitro. Moreover, the phage Compared to chemical modifications, site-directed engi- increased survival of mice with an E. coli bacteremia. It neering of phage proteins seems less straightforward in also enhanced the elimination of antibiotic-resistant bacteria, terms of its effect on phage pharmacokinetics. In fact, effec- biofilm cells, and persister cells and reduced the emergence tive control of the phage circulation in vivo by molecular of antibiotic-resistant cells in an antibiotic-treated bacte- modifications has not been achieved so far. This is probably rial population. Similar effects were achieved with phages due to the complexity of phage virions, which consist of a overproducing regulators of certain non-SOS gene networks, multitude of proteins, each potentially interacting with the indicating the efficacy of engineered phages targeting cer- phage-treated
