BioDrugs (2021) 35:255–280
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, dna, bacteriophage, bacterial, host, microbiol, bacteria, therapy, engineering, engineered, genome, cells, coli, therapeutic


phage virions, which consist of a overproducing regulators of certain non-SOS gene networks, multitude of proteins, each potentially interacting with the indicating the efficacy of engineered phages targeting cer- phage-treated organism and affecting phage pharmacokinet- tain genomic networks as adjuvants of antibiotic therapies. ics. Phages are very large as compared to conventional drugs, To treat Chlamydia trachomatis, an obligate intracellular and this seems to be a major factor determining phages’ abil- pathogen, a filamentous phage was engineered to express ity to circulate in vivo, rather than details of phage molecular an integrin-binding peptide (inducing phage endocytosis) structures . Nevertheless, there are reports indicating and a conserved peptide from this pathogen interfering with that phage pharmacokinetics in animals and humans can its propagation. The engineered phage significantly reduced in fact be modified (if not fully controlled) by molecular C. trachomatis infection in HeLa cells and primary human modifications of the phage capsid. Sokoloff et al. [322–324] endocervical cells . used phage display to study interactions of an engineered T7 Peng et al. have applied photothermal ablation phage with the rat and human innate immunity system. Their of bacteria as a modification of phage therapy. Chimeric study focused on the complement system, which is a major E. coli filamentous phages engineered to display RBPs of component of humoral (non-cellular) innate immunity. Due filamentous phages targeting bacteria of other genera were to its wide interactions with other elements of the immune conjugated to gold nanorods (to form so called phanorods) system, both non-specific, like phagocytes, and specific, like . Upon excitation with near-infrared light, such IgM antibodies, modifying phage interactions with the com- phanorods release energy, and the resulting heat kills tar- plement system may affect its interactions with other types geted bacteria. Moreover, phanorod irradiation efficiently of immune response. The authors assumed that the amino eliminated bacterial cells within a biofilm, causing only acid composition of the phage surface can make the phage minimal damage to epithelial cells. less or more reactive to the complement system. Indeed, they It has also been recognized that arming filamentous demonstrated that presenting peptides with the C-terminal phages with specific peptides offers a novel antigen delivery lysine or arginine on the capsid changed the phage pheno- system for the development of new vaccine formulations. type into long-circulating in rats . That finding was Such phages engineered to target mouse dendritic cells can consistent with earlier observations
