BioDrugs (2021) 35:255–280
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, dna, bacteriophage, bacterial, host, microbiol, bacteria, therapy, engineering, engineered, genome, cells, coli, therapeutic


system for the development of new vaccine formulations. type into long-circulating in rats . That finding was Such phages engineered to target mouse dendritic cells can consistent with earlier observations of Merril and cowork- strongly activate the innate and adaptive immune responses ers who isolated from rabbits spontaneous long-circulating excluding the need for adjuvants. A recent article provides mutants of phage λ with the glutamic acid to lysine substitu- tion in a part of the major capsid protein presumably located Bacteriophage Engineering for Therapeutic Applications 269 at the solvent-exposed surface in mature virions . for those with filamentous virions, the size of the genome They proposed that the long-circulating phenotype could is limited by capsid capacity. This limits the modifications be linked to lower susceptibility of the mutated phage to be to incorporation of only small fragments of extra DNA captured by the mononuclear phagocytic system (referred to or replacement of original genomic fragments with frag- by them as the reticulo-endothelial system). An alternative ments of similar size. Second, certain changes in the phage explanation could be that the long-circulating phage was less genome sequence or organization, or in the virion structure, susceptible to inactivation by the complement system, since may negatively influence phage infectivity or development both Sokoloff et al. and Vitiello et al. found that [328–331]. For instance, chemical PEGylation of surface the exposure of lysine or arginine on the phage head surface proteins of two obligatorily lytic myophages infecting Sal- facilitated phage escape from the innate immune response. monella or Listeria species, which prolonged blood circu- It seems likely that at least some phages whose life cycles lation time of those phages in mice, also decreased their are bound with animal- or human-associated bacteria have infectivity . adapted to the complement system by minimizing their rec- The use of GE phages in therapy has raised concerns ognizability. In such cases, further improvement of the phage about potential effects of their release into the environment resistance to the immune system via genetic engineering . Whether such concerns are justified has not been may prove challenging, as was found by Hodyra-Stefaniak verified yet. GE phages could influence bacterial commu- et al. . In that work, coliphage T4 was engineered by nity dynamics, genome evolution, and biogeochemistry. phage display to present specific tissue-homing peptides However, the small scale of potential use of GE phages as expected to induce phage accumulation
