BioDrugs (2021) 35:255–280
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, dna, bacteriophage, bacterial, host, microbiol, bacteria, therapy, engineering, engineered, genome, cells, coli, therapeutic


by nity dynamics, genome evolution, and biogeochemistry. phage display to present specific tissue-homing peptides However, the small scale of potential use of GE phages as expected to induce phage accumulation in specific targeted compared to antibiotics limits the potential risks of their tissues (organs). However, the concentration of the engi- spread. Nair and Khairnar have asked an important neered phages in the targeted organs was not increased, and question of whether the concerns associated with GE micro- in some cases, it was even lower than that of the wild-type organisms are also relevant for GE phages. The GE phages phage. An analysis of the systemic pharmacokinetics of the depleted of lysogeny-associated or other undesired genes phages revealed that their low concentration in the targeted can potentially recombine with other phages, but they cannot organs was due to a lowered systemic concentration. Thus, spread such genes in the environment. Additionally, modi- it turned out that the engineered phages were removed from fications of phage genomes have been shown to be associ- the system more rapidly than the non-engineered one, i.e., ated with a fitness cost that can lead to a loss of function they exhibited a short-circulating phenotype. Analysis of in GE phages or to their outcompetition by native phages the modifications introduced revealed that all the peptides [328–331, 334, 335]. However, some modified phages of conferring the short-circulating phenotype lacked arginine, reduced fitness could recover the fitness of their original which was present in all the others. That correlation seemed phage through compensatory evolution even in less than a to confirm the role of arginine in protecting the phage from hundred generations. An additional concern is posed by pos- rapid elimination, although a similar role of lysine was not sible interactions of GE phages with eukaryotic cells. Con- observed in that study. Apparently, engineering destroyed trary to earlier assumptions, data accumulating in the last evolutionarily optimized properties of the phage, making it few years suggest such a possibility, albeit its significance is more susceptible to the immune system. In general, a short- unclear at this moment . It is thus obvious that despite circulating phenotype is unfavorable in therapeutic applica- the highly encouraging results of experimental therapeutic tions of phages, since their rapid elimination from the treated applications of GE phages, further progress in the develop- organism may prevent them from combating the bacterial ment of antibacterials based on GE
