Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: copper, disease, wilson disease, wilson, liver, patient, symptoms, levels, brain, ceruloplasmin, diagnosed, high, organs, low, vitamin


Open Access Case Report DOI: Wilson's Disease Manifestation in Late Adulthood: A Case Report and Literature Review Faria Tazin 1 , Harendra Kumar 2 , Vern Orlang 1 Review began [DATE] Review ended [DATE] Tazin et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Corresponding author: Harendra Kumar, Commons Attribution License CC-BY 4.0., which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited. Abstract Wilson's disease is a rare inherited condition that results in an excessive copper buildup in various organs, especially the liver, brain, and other vital organs, leading to cirrhosis, liver failure, neurological problems like involuntary movements, clumsy gait, speech difficulties, and psychological issues, in addition to other symptoms. It is an ATP7B gene mutation-driven autosomal recessive condition. Although the condition is present from birth, symptoms often start to show up between the ages of five and 35, when the body has accumulated enough copper. Wilson's disease may become fatal if an excessive amount of copper is accumulated in the body. It is treatable and has a good prognosis if diagnosed early. Early identification, however, is not always straightforward since symptoms might resemble those of other diseases and develop later in life when copper is absorbed by food and drink and gradually accumulates in the body's many organs. In addition to medicine, physicians advise people with Wilson's disease to avoid foods and beverages containing copper. Our patient was diagnosed with Wilson’s disease at the age of 16 and was on Cuprimine which helped her to survive. Her younger sister was diagnosed at an early age and was started on a treatment regimen, which is why her sister’s manifestation of Wilson’s disease was less severe than hers. Categories: Family/General Practice, Genetics, Internal Medicine Keywords: atp7b mutation, wilson`s disease, internal medicine, genetics, family medicine Introduction Wilson's disease (WD), an autosomal recessive disorder that impairs copper metabolism, affects the ATP7B gene . Copper tends to build up in the liver, brain, kidneys, and cornea in WD, leading to a variety of symptoms including hepatic illness, neuronal degeneration in the brain, and Kayser-Fleischer (KF) rings at the corneal limbus . An indication of WD includes low copper levels in the blood and ceruloplasmin, increased excretion of copper in the urine, and increasing hepatic copper levels . Contrarily, successful molecular testing is still diagnostic . Low levels of copper
