Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: copper, disease, wilson disease, wilson, liver, patient, symptoms, levels, brain, ceruloplasmin, diagnosed, high, organs, low, vitamin


in the blood and ceruloplasmin, increased excretion of copper in the urine, and increasing hepatic copper levels . Contrarily, successful molecular testing is still diagnostic . Low levels of copper in the blood and ceruloplasmin, as well as elevated levels of copper in the liver and increased excretion of copper in the urine, are characteristics/markers of WD . In dire circumstances, liver transplantation could be a possibility . We are reporting a case of a 59-year-old female with Wilson’s disease presenting in her late adult life. Case Presentation A 59-year-old female, with a past medical history of Wilson's disease (diagnosed at the age of 16), came to over small joints of the hand, elbow, and knee joint. She described the pain as constant in nature with no aggravating or relieving factors and rated it 5/10 on the pain scale. She had a history of total hip arthroplasty, right knee arthroplasty, and left shoulder arthroplasty. She also presented with choreiform movements of her hands and legs, speech difficulty, and anxiety. Patient notes her younger sister was also diagnosed with Wilson's disease at an early age after her diagnosis as a screening process for genetic disease. On physical examination, patient appeared anxious, exhausted, and in mild distress. She is noted to be edentulous. The patient used a cane for walking and wore a brace on her right knee. On examination, patient's gait was slowed, clumsy, and choreiform movement was present. There was a deformity in the hands, fingers, elbows, and knee joints. Heart and lung sounds were normal. The abdomen was soft, non- distended, and non-tender in all four quadrants. On neurologic examination, the patient had speech difficulties, and her speech was not comprehensible by the examiner. Her vitals were within normal limits. Her last lab work, including complete blood count (CBC), comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP), thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), vitamin B12, and folic acid, was within normal limits. In Table 1, the hepatitis panel (HEP) of the patient shows high alkaline phosphate and low free T4. Whereas in Table 2, vitamin B6 and vitamin B12 are high. Moreover, ceruloplasmin and vitamin D were low. How to cite this article Tazin F, Kumar H, Orlang V (September 30, 2022) Wilson's Disease Manifestation in Late Adulthood: A Case Report and Literature Review. Cureus 14(9): e29797. DOI Test Result Flag Reference Uric acid 3.6 2.6 - 6.0 mg/dl Phosphorous 3.9 2.5 - 4.9 mg/dl
