Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: copper, disease, wilson disease, wilson, liver, patient, symptoms, levels, brain, ceruloplasmin, diagnosed, high, organs, low, vitamin


As the condition progresses, copper builds up in other bodily organs, such as the brain, eyes, kidneys, and heart, harming the organs in question . The liver's working cells, known as hepatocytes, are in charge of creating ceruloplasmin, an enzyme containing six copper atoms that circulate the bulk of plasma copper throughout the body. Additionally, 2022 Tazin et al. Cureus 14(9): e29797. DOI 2 of 4 extra copper is transported by hepatocytes to the biliary system before being eliminated in the stool. A mutation in the ATP7B gene, which inhibits copper from binding to ceruloplasmin and prevents extra copper from being carried into the bile, results in Wilson's disease . As a result, a potentially harmful quantity of copper gradually builds up in the liver, resulting in liver disease, hepatocellular damage, and eventually, copper transit into the bloodstream, which leads to a toxic copper buildup in other organs . Hepatocellular injury may lead to the development of cirrhosis, hepatomegaly, acute liver failure, hepatitis, and chronic active hepatitis . When copper builds up in the brain, it often affects the brain stem, basal ganglia, and The most common neurological symptoms noted in WD are "tremors, incoordination, dystonia, stiffness, difficulties with fine motor movements, and dysarthria," but they vary in severity from moderate to severe . Depression, rage outbursts, delusions, sexual exhibitionism, hyperactive conduct, and paranoia are a few other common mental disorders noted in patients with WD . Furthermore, several studies have shown "atrophy of the brain and cerebral white matter" . Wilson's disease is challenging to diagnose due to the wide range of nonspecific clinical symptoms reported by patients and the broad range of age of those affected. It is conceivable that someone could remain asymptomatic, and the illness would not become apparent until much later in life. Because it takes time for sufficient copper to accumulate and reach levels high enough to interfere with organ function, this illness's symptoms often appear in adolescence and the early stages of adulthood. However, this sickness has lately been seen in people as young as three and as old as 72 . The quantity of copper built up in the body directly relates to the symptoms' severity. The presence of undetectable serum ceruloplasmin and a hepatic copper value of 356 µg/g dry weight can be used to establish the diagnosis of WD . Wilson's disease is symptoms . The patient may become helpless
