Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: copper, disease, wilson disease, wilson, liver, patient, symptoms, levels, brain, ceruloplasmin, diagnosed, high, organs, low, vitamin


and a hepatic copper value of 356 µg/g dry weight can be used to establish the diagnosis of WD . Wilson's disease is symptoms . The patient may become helpless and immobilized in severe instances of this brain condition. Furthermore, unless the patient has a liver transplant, extreme examples of this liver condition may be deadly. Therefore, therapy must be started after a diagnosis as soon as possible since early identification and treatment may reverse symptoms and avert potentially fatal liver and brain damage. of Kayser-Fleischer rings, low serum ceruloplasmin levels, and, in more severe instances, significant urine copper excretion. The main imaging modalities for this condition include sonography, magnetic resonance imaging, and computed tomography. Wilson's disease is seldom diagnosed just based on the liver's sonographic appearance since these indications of liver illness are generic; further diagnostic tests such as liver biopsy are often carried out. Splenomegaly is often recognized as well . However, there have been cases of WD patients whose livers seemed normal after a sonogram . The most regularly affected parts of the brain, notably the basal ganglia, are also evaluated using sonography and magnetic resonance imaging. Transcranial sonography indicates high echogenicity in basal ganglia-related regions . themselves; often, a correct diagnosis requires a combination of several presentations. The definitive diagnostic test is a liver biopsy that reveals high copper levels . The patient must adhere to a lifetime regimen of medication, dietary changes, and other copper-prevention techniques after Wilson's disease is diagnosed. Chelation therapy is the first method to eliminate free copper in the circulation that isn't covalently attached to ceruloplasmin, commonly known as heavy metal detoxification . A mixture of oral medications removes the extra copper, and the patient's blood copper levels are monitored often. Penicillamine was the first oral medication used in chelation therapy, but it produced a lot of unfavorable side effects, particularly among individuals with neurological symptoms. The second copper-chelating medicine to be developed, trientine, also had several serious adverse effects, including neurological issues. Wilson's disease is being treated with zinc. Zinc aids in lowering copper absorption in the intestines, as opposed to penicillamine and trientine, which work together to release copper from the body for urine excretion . Zinc is an effective medication for preserving a healthy level of copper absorption and excretion after obtaining an average copper level. There are specific dietary restrictions, such as consuming no more than one
