Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: copper, disease, wilson disease, wilson, liver, patient, symptoms, levels, brain, ceruloplasmin, diagnosed, high, organs, low, vitamin


effective medication for preserving a healthy level of copper absorption and excretion after obtaining an average copper level. There are specific dietary restrictions, such as consuming no more than one milligram of copper daily, to be implemented. Avoiding whole wheat, organic meats, nuts, seafood, chocolate, and supplements high in copper would help maintain the levels of copper in the body. Additionally, strategies for reducing copper absorption in water must be devised. These include using only distilled water for drinking and cooking and installing copper removal devices in drinking water pipelines . Conclusions Wilson's disease is an autosomal recessive and inherited disorder that accumulates copper throughout the body, especially in the liver, brain, and other vital organs. Due to the mutation of the ATP7B gene in Wilson's disease, copper transporting ATPase 2 protein cannot function properly, leading to excessive copper accumulation in different parts of the body. This causes various diseases, including liver failure, cirrhosis, and neurological, psychological, and kidney problems. Our patient was diagnosed with Wilson's disease at 2022 Tazin et al. Cureus 14(9): e29797. DOI 3 of 4 the age of 16 with various neurological and psychological issues. She was on Cuprimine and other treatment regimens, which helped her survive. Her younger sister was diagnosed with Wilson's disease at an earlier age than she was through genetic screening. That is why her sister had fewer clinical manifestations than her. It isn't easy to diagnose the case early as it takes time to accumulate copper in the body's vital organs, as copper is absorbed through foods and drinks. When the diagnosis of Wilson's disease is confirmed, we need to start medical treatment immediately to avoid life-threatening complications such as liver failure and cirrhosis, which may require a liver transplant for definitive treatment. Additional Information Disclosures Human subjects: Consent was obtained or waived by all participants in this study. Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial support was received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they have no financial relationships at present or within the previous three years with any organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.
