Rochesteretal.Trials2011,12:210
KEYWORDS: study, men, pain, cpps, prostatitis, management, chronic, patients, standard, follow-up, trial, treatment, cid, care, programme


ing arthritis, diabetes and asthma through reduction in an unexpected diagnosis in a given participant, this secondary care referrals, reduced primary care atten- would be made available. dance and increased self efficacy . More recently a Vulnerable patients, those who are unable to consent group-directed self management programme has been for themselves and patients who do not speak English shown to improve both symptoms and quality of life in will be excluded from the study. A detailed and explicit men with lower urinary tract symptoms attributed to list of inclusion and exclusion criteria is provided in benign prostatic hyperplasia . Table 1. We have developed a programme of cognitive beha- vioural therapy for men with CP/CPPS. This interven- Power Calculation delivered in the context of small group sessions. We National Institute of Health Chronic Prostatitis Symp- believe that through this holistic approach we can tom Index (NIH-CPSI, see Figure 1). Mean NIH-CPSI improve these patients’ quality of life and functional sta- scores in published trials are around 25, with standard tus, reduce their pain and reduce the need for sustained deviation in the region 6-7. To detect a mean fall in primary and secondary care consultation. NIH-CPSI of 4 points, we used CPSI score in control of The main objective of the study is to show that our 25.2, and CPSI score of 21.2 in the intervention with programme of group-directed cognitive behavioural standard deviations of 6.1 and 7.2 in the control and therapy for men with CP/CPPS is more effective than intervention respectively. At 90% power, 5% two sided standard therapy (pain relief and coping mechanisms significance level, we estimate a sample size of 59 indivi- delivered in the pain clinic). duals in each group. Taking account of 15% loss to Methods/Design Table 1Inclusion andExclusion Criteria Study Design InclusionCriteria We believe that our self management programme would (cid:129)Men be best evaluated in the context of a randomised con- (cid:129)Age18yearsororder trolled trial compared to standard care. A randomised (cid:129)DiagnosisofTypeIIIchronicprostatitis/chronicpelvicpain controlled trial is the most rigorous trial design that will syndromebyaconsultanturologist allow comparison of the effectiveness of our interven- (cid:129)Failureofsimpleanalgesiaandantibioticstocontrolsymptoms tion with standard treatment and will also allow an eco- ExclusionCriteria nomic evaluation. (cid:129)Prostatecancerorsuspectedprostatecancer (cid:129)Renaltractcalculi Setting (cid:129)Acutebacterialprostatitis The trial will take place at the Norfolk and Norwich (cid:129)Otherurologicalandnon-urologicaldiagnosesthatcouldaccount University Hospital NHS Foundation Trust. The treat- forapatient’ssymptoms ment sessions will take place at the Pain Management (cid:129)InabilitytocomprehendandconverseintheEnglishlanguage Centre and follow-up visits will
