Rochesteretal.Trials2011,12:210
KEYWORDS: study, men, pain, cpps, prostatitis, management, chronic, patients, standard, follow-up, trial, treatment, cid, care, programme


place at the Norfolk and Norwich (cid:129)Otherurologicalandnon-urologicaldiagnosesthatcouldaccount University Hospital NHS Foundation Trust. The treat- forapatient’ssymptoms ment sessions will take place at the Pain Management (cid:129)InabilitytocomprehendandconverseintheEnglishlanguage Centre and follow-up visits will be scheduled in the hos- (cid:129)Vulnerableadults pital outpatient department. Acomprehensivelistofthestudyinclusionandexclusioncriteria. Rochesteretal.Trials2011,12:210 Page3of7 questionnairefortheassessmentofmenwithCP/CPPS.Itevaluatespainandurinarysymptoms,andassessestheimpactoftheconditionon functionandqualityoflife. Rochesteretal.Trials2011,12:210 Page4of7 follow-up, we will require 60 individuals in each group required particularly in the initial sessions. The sessions giving a total sample size of 120. will focus on re-enablement through patient education, identifying and challenging negative thoughts, fostering Randomisation methods a sense of control and introducing problem-solving and Randomisation will be carried out by a method of Ran- goal-setting strategies. The content of each session is dom Permuted Blocks so as to ensure exact equal treat- briefly detailed in Table 2. ment numbers at certain equally spaced time points in All patients randomised to the intervention arm will the sequence of patient assignments. The randomisation be able to leave the study at any time and all will be sequence will be generated using statistical software in offered standard pain clinic care thereafter. We will random blocks, size of four individuals per block. carry out both intention to treat and per protocol analysis. Assessment of outcome The primary outcome will be change from baseline in Data Collection, Management and Analysis assessment of men with CP/CPPS (see Figure 1) . Research Nurse. The Specialist Research Nurse will be The NIH-CPSI assesses domains of pain, urinary func- responsible for the day-to-day running of the trial as tion, sexual function, and the impact of symptoms on well as the collection of all administrative, demographic quality of life. and outcome data. She will be the key contact for parti- Secondary outcomes will include the SF-36, HAD cipants requiring support or advice throughout the (Hospital Anxiety and Depression) scale and PAM study. (Patient Activation Measurement) tool. The SF-36 will Outcome data will be collected at the time of enrol- provide a measure of generic quality of life. The HAD ment into the study and again at 2, 6 and 12 months scale is a self-screening questionnaire for depression and reviews after the commencement of treatment as part of anxiety. The PAM tool will provide a measurement of a routine outpatient pain clinic review. The Specialist empowerment and be used to evaluate the degree to Research Nurse responsible for collecting these data will which patients feel that they are in control of
