Open access Protocol
KEYWORDS: urine, uti, dipstick, women, sediment, culture, study, pregnant, positive, diagnostic, test, pregnant women, symptoms, urine dipstick, pregnancy


Diagnostic work-u p of urinary tract infections in pregnancy: study protocol of a prospective cohort study Dominique Esmée Werter ,1 Brenda M Kazemier,1 Elisabeth van Leeuwen,2 Maurits C F J de Rotte,3 Sacha D Kuil,4 Eva Pajkrt,5 Caroline Schneeberger6,7 To cite: Werter DE, ABSTRACT STRENGTHS AND LIMITATIONS OF THIS STUDY Kazemier BM, van Leeuwen E, Introduction Symptoms of urinary tract infections in et al. Diagnostic work-u p pregnant women are often less specific, in contrast to ⇒ The urine of every participating woman will be test- in pregnancy: study of a urinary tract infection are sufficient to diagnose sediment and a urine culture. protocol of a prospective urinary tract infections. Moreover, symptoms of a urinary ⇒ We will investigate the course of complaints in preg- cohort study. BMJ Open tract infection can mimic pregnancy- related symptoms, nant women with a possible urinary tract infection to 2022;12:e063813. doi:10.1136/ bmjopen-2022-063813 or symptoms of a threatened preterm birth, such as gain more insight in the diagnostic value. contractions. In order to diagnose or rule out a urinary tract ⇒ The research will be done prospectively; therefore, ► Prepublication history for infection, additional diagnostic testing is required. we expect less bias than in a retrospective cohort. this paper is available online. The diagnostic accuracy of urine dipstick analysis and ⇒ It will be a single- centre cohort study, so it could To view these files, please visit urine sediment in the diagnosis of urinary tract infections possibly make the participants more homogeneous. the journal online ( in pregnant women has not been ascertained nor org/- 063813). validated. Methods and analysis In this single- centre prospective urinary glucose concentration, which facil- Received 12 April 2022 cohort study, pregnant women (≥16 years old) with a itates bacterial growth.9 The association Accepted 30 August 2022 suspected urinary tract infection will be included. The between UTIs during pregnancy and maternal women will be asked to complete a short questionnaire complications such as hypertensive disorders regarding complaints, risk factors for urinary tract and caesarean delivery has been reported, infections and baseline characteristics. Their urine will although there is contradictory evidence.4 6 10 be tested with a urine dipstick, urine sediment and urine Moreover, UTIs during pregnancy have also culture. The different sensitivities and specificities per test been associated with neonatal complications will be assessed. Our aim is to evaluate and compare the such as preterm birth, low birth weight
