Open access Protocol
KEYWORDS: urine, uti, dipstick, women, sediment, culture, study, pregnant, positive, diagnostic, test, pregnant women, symptoms, urine dipstick, pregnancy


The different sensitivities and specificities per test been associated with neonatal complications will be assessed. Our aim is to evaluate and compare the such as preterm birth, low birth weight and diagnostic accuracy of urine dipstick analysis and urine perinatal death.2 4 10 In addition, an untreated sediment in comparison with urine culture (reference test) in pregnant women. In addition, we will compare UTI may lead to pyelonephritis, which further these tests to a predefined ‘true urinary tract infection’, increases the risk of preterm birth.11 Preterm to distinguish between a urinary tract infection and birth has major consequences at the indi- asymptomatic bacteriuria. vidual level as well as for society (costs). Ethics and dissemination Approval was requested from In contrast, overtreating pregnant women the Medical Ethics Review Committee of the Academic with antibiotics may also cause harm. Overuse Medical Centre; an official approval of this study by the and incorrect use of antibiotics are the main committee was not required. The outcomes of this study causes of antimicrobial resistance. Moreover, will be published in a peer- reviewed journal. the unnecessary exposure of the unborn child to antibiotics may also not be without INTRODUCTION risks. Associations between antibiotics during The prevalence of urinary tract infections pregnancy and adverse neonatal outcomes © Author(s) (or their (UTIs) during pregnancy reported in liter- including increased risk of cerebral palsy, employer(s)) 2022. Re- use ature varies between 2.3% and 15%.1–5 It is early- onset sepsis with antibiotic- resistant permitted under CC BY- NC. No hypothesised that anatomical changes during microorganisms, malformations and epilepsy commercial re-u se. See rights and permissions. Published by pregnancy such as dilatation of the ureters, have been published.10 12 13 Also, maternal BMJ. decreased ureteral tone and increased exposure to certain antibiotics is associ- For numbered affiliations see bladder volume contribute to urinary stasis ated with childhood asthma and childhood end of article. and ureterovesical reflux increasing the risk obesity.14 15 It is recently found that prenatal of a UTI.6–8 Besides the anatomical changes, exposure to antibiotics can probably lead to Correspondence to Ms Dominique Esmée Werter; pregnancy- related glomerular filtration rate alterations in the differential methylation d. e. werter@ amsterdamumc. nl increases the alkalinity of the urine and the at regulatory regions of imprinted genes.16 Werter DE, et al. BMJ Open 2022;12:e063813. doi: 1 Open access If we can improve diagnostics and related antibiotic automatically by microscopy.16 For a UTI,
