Open access Protocol
KEYWORDS: urine, uti, dipstick, women, sediment, culture, study, pregnant, positive, diagnostic, test, pregnant women, symptoms, urine dipstick, pregnancy


regulatory regions of imprinted genes.16 Werter DE, et al. BMJ Open 2022;12:e063813. doi: 1 Open access If we can improve diagnostics and related antibiotic automatically by microscopy.16 For a UTI, both the pres- prescribing, we possibly can also influence fetal develop- ence or absence of leucocytes and bacteria are of interest. ment and possibly long-t erm health with the results of this A systematic review in the general population reported study. All of them impact future healthcare costs. Next to a sensitivity range of 57.1%–97%, a specificity of 27.0%– that, if we could decrease the number of tests for an accu- 97.0%, a positive likelihood ratio of 1.59–24.57 and a rate diagnosis, costs could be saved. negative likelihood ratio of 0.07–0.655 in studies where In the non- pregnant population, a diagnostic test to they used the sediment.27 Yet again, physiological pyuria confirm the diagnosis of UTI is not always considered can appear in pregnant women.26 The advantage of the and urgency are regarded distinctive enough.7 17–20 In sediment counts all bacteria. The urine dipstick only pregnancy, the diagnosis of a UTI is less well studied and indicates if there are nitrite-f orming bacteria present. more challenging. First of all, many women during preg- However, not all bacteria are uropathogenic. nancy experience symptoms that mimic a UTI such as Finally, the reference test to detect a UTI is a urine frequency as a result of pressure of the baby’s head on culture, which determines bacterial growth. However, the the bladder.8 21 On the other hand, symptoms of a UTI urine dipstick takes a few minutes, the urine sediment can be aspecific in pregnancy; UTIs in pregnant women about an hour and the urine culture at least 24 hours up may solely present with abdominal pain or Braxton Hicks to 5 days. contractions.9 21 All this makes it more difficult to distin- The exact number of bacteria present in urine to define guish between asymptomatic bacteriuria (ASB) and UTI. a ‘positive’ urine culture and a UTI is not clear cut. The Furthermore, in pregnancy, ASB can also be present: most common definition is ≥105 colony- forming units bacteriuria without any UTI signs or symptoms. ASB is not (CFU)/mL of uropathogens.28 However, the cut-o ffs an active infection and the risk of adverse outcomes like used in practice range from ≥103 CFU/mL to ≥105 CFU/ preterm birth is low or absent compared with
