Open access Protocol
KEYWORDS: urine, uti, dipstick, women, sediment, culture, study, pregnant, positive, diagnostic, test, pregnant women, symptoms, urine dipstick, pregnancy


cut-o ffs an active infection and the risk of adverse outcomes like used in practice range from ≥103 CFU/mL to ≥105 CFU/ preterm birth is low or absent compared with UTIs.11 22 mL.18 29 30 Most hospital protocols recommend testing pregnant The Dutch guideline of obstetrics and gynaecology women for a UTI when they present with symptoms recommends performing both a nitrite dipstick and a suggestive of UTI or in case of symptoms suspicious of urine culture when pregnant women present with UTI threatened preterm birth. In the diagnostic work- up, symptoms. In case of a positive nitrite dipstick, treatment various methods are used: urine dipstick test, urine sedi- should start immediately. In case of a negative nitrite ments and bacterial cultures, which are used in various dipstick, treatment should only be started if the culture ways and come with several limitations. is positive. The role of the other diagnostic methods is First, a urine dipstick is a strip with different reagents unclear.9 The Dutch general practitioners’ guideline present. The reagents react on the presence of certain recommends performing a nitrite dipstick. In case of a substances, for example, protein, glucose, nitrite and positive nitrite dipstick, people will be treated for UTI. leucocyte esterase. The most important parameters to diag- Leucocyte esterase test will be performed when the nitrite nose UTI on a dipstick are nitrite and leucocyte esterase. result is negative. Urine sediments are recommended Many gram-n egative bacteria produce the enzyme nitrate if leucocyte esterase is present since a positive result of reductase, which converts urinary nitrate into nitrite indi- leucocyte esterase is considered as insufficient proof of a cating the presence of bacteria.23 In the adult population, UTI. When either the nitrite or the sediment is positive, the sensitivity of nitrite dipstick reported in a systematic treatment should be started. When the leucocyte esterase review is 0.54 (CI 0.44 to 0.64), the specificity is 0.98 (CI dipstick is negative but there is still a suspicion for a UTI, 0.96 to 0.99), positive likelihood ratio of 29.3 (CI 14.4 a sediment is performed additionally. When both urine to 59.7) and a negative likelihood ratio of 0.48 (CI 0.37 dipstick and sediment are negative, a UTI is ruled out. to 0.62). Eight out of 14 of the studies included in this If either urine dipstick or sediment results are positive, a review reported on pregnant women, but none of
