Open access Protocol
KEYWORDS: urine, uti, dipstick, women, sediment, culture, study, pregnant, positive, diagnostic, test, pregnant women, symptoms, urine dipstick, pregnancy


The dipstick that we will use is Clinitek to properly inform (diagnostic) guidelines, which results novus 10 (Siemens). The urine sediment will be checked in great diagnostic variation, and potential harmful over- with Atellica 1500 Siemens. For both the urine dipstick treatment and undertreatment. and the urine sediment, different cut-o ffs will be used to investigate which cut-o ff has the best diagnostic value METHODS AND ANALYSIS (table 1). This study aims to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of The reference test will be a urine culture. urine dipstick analysis and urine sediment to bacterial No blinding will take place for the different tests. The cultures in the diagnosis of UTI in pregnant women. outcome of the test has no influence on the treatment and is necessary for daily practice. Study design Because of the difficulties to distinguish between ASB This study is a single- centre prospective cohort study. and UTI, we will use a different definition for UTI than commonly used. We would like to make sure that we are Participants dealing with a UTI and not ASB. All consecutive pregnant women attending the outpatient In this study, a ‘true UTI’ is present when the following three criteria are met: women’s health in the Amsterdam UMC with symptoms 1. Presence of at least two specific or non- specific symp- warranting a diagnostic work- up to rule out a UTI can be toms of a UTI.26 included, after oral and written consent. These symptoms include dysuria, urgency, frequency, fluid loss, difficul- 2. A positive urine culture. ties with voiding, painful voiding, haematuria, or aspe- 3. Symptom improvement during adequate antibiotic cific abdominal pain, (Braxton Hicks) contractions and treatment, where adequate treatment is defined by vaginal blood loss.7 9 proven susceptibility of isolated uropathogens to the Exclusion criteria are a previous UTI episode in the administered antibiotic. past 2 weeks, antibiotic use in the past 2 weeks or a struc- The definition of a positive culture is: tural abnormality of the urogenital tract. 1. Urine with ≥103 CFU/mL of a uropathogen. Table 1 Expected outcomes Positive Negative Positive Negative Cut- off predictive predictive likelihood likelihood Test Determination point Sensitivity Specificity value value ratio ratio Urine Nitrite Positive dipstick (> 105/mL) Leucocyte 1+ esterase 2+ 3+ Urine Bacteria 1+ sediment 2+ Leucocytes <10/µL >10/µL >20/µL >30/µL >40/µL >50/µL >60/µL Werter DE, et al. BMJ Open 2022;12:e063813. doi: 3 Open access 2. Maximum of
