Open access Protocol
KEYWORDS: urine, uti, dipstick, women, sediment, culture, study, pregnant, positive, diagnostic, test, pregnant women, symptoms, urine dipstick, pregnancy


definition. Different 80% power. We expect that around 30% of the included cut- offs and combinations of cut- offs of the urine analysis women will have a UTI such that the necessary sample components will be explored to calculate sensitivity, spec- size to include is 603 for sensitivity and 432 for specificity. ificity, positive and negative predictive value, and positive With a 10% expected drop- out, the sample size would and negative likelihood ratios (table 1). In addition, we be 660 pregnant women. aim to develop a diagnostic model based on all available Data will be collected using Castor, which is an appli- evidence on leucocyte esterase, nitrite presence, bacteria cation system that enables collection and clean-u p of presence, leucocyte count and symptoms. trial data using the internet. Data handling will be done After the best performing cut- offs for both urine coded. The data will be saved for 15 years. dipstick and urine sediment have been determined, we will compare the performance of these two tests together Patient and public involvement in terms of sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative There was no patient or public involvement in this predictive value, and positive and negative likelihood research. ratios. Urine culture will be used as the reference test. Ethics and dissemination The performance will be compared with the predefined true negatives using the reference test. In addition, we Committee of the Academic Medical Centre; an official compare the classifications of urine dipstick with urine approval of this study by the committee was not required sediment in a 2×2 table for true positives (sensitivity) and (METC review number W21_291 #21.318). All partici- a 2×2 table for true negatives (specificity) and calculate a pants will give written and oral informed consent prior to p value for the difference in classification using a paired entry to the study and will be made aware that participa- McNemar test. tion is strictly voluntary. Planned sensitivity analyses will also be performed for The outcomes of this study will be published in a peer- different cut- off values for pathogens in urine cultures reviewed journal. ≥103 CFU/mL, ≥ 104 CFU/mL and ≥105 CFU/mL. Contaminated urine cultures will be considered as negative cultures. DISCUSSION The diagnostic accuracy of a urine dipstick and, less Secondary outcome often, a urine sediment for the diagnosis of bacteriuria predicting a UTI in pregnancy and which symptoms are are available in pregnant women
