Open access Protocol
KEYWORDS: urine, uti, dipstick, women, sediment, culture, study, pregnant, positive, diagnostic, test, pregnant women, symptoms, urine dipstick, pregnancy


a urine dipstick and, less Secondary outcome often, a urine sediment for the diagnosis of bacteriuria predicting a UTI in pregnancy and which symptoms are are available in pregnant women on the diagnostic accu- not. The symptoms of a UTI will be studied with inci- racy of symptomatic UTIs. As a result, different guidelines dences and p values to identify which symptoms are asso- in the Netherlands advise different ways of testing for ciated with UTI. UTIs in pregnant women. International guidelines lack 4 Werter DE, et al. BMJ Open 2022;12:e063813. doi: Open access pregnant women with a UTI, both undertreatment and Netherlands overtreatment are potentially harmful; therefore, correct Netherlands diagnosis is very important. 5Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Amsterdam UMC Location AMC, Amsterdam, The Netherlands Bias 6Department of Microbiology, Amsterdam UMC- Locatie AMC, Amsterdam, The Netherlands The focus of this study is the diagnostic work-u p. We will not intervene in the treatment given or follow- up provided Environment (RIVM), Bilthoven, Netherlands to the participating women. It is likely that certain types of bias will be introduced as a result of implementation of Contributors DEW wrote the proposal and the manuscript. BMK initiated the this study. Bias could be introduced because more diag- research, and critically revised the proposal and manuscript. EvL critically revised nostics will be performed and all three urine test results the proposal and manuscript. MCFJdR critically revised the manuscript. SDK critically revised the proposal and manuscript. EP critically revised the proposal and will be reported to the treating clinician (not blinded). manuscript. CS critically revised the proposal and manuscript. All authors read and Since more result will be available, this could affect the approved the final manuscript. prescription of antibiotics. Funding The authors have not declared a specific grant for this research from any cation bias since the three different urine tests will be Competing interests None declared. most of the time executed at the same time from the Patient and public involvement Patients and/or the public were not involved in same urine sample. Because of this, we avoid that only the design, or conduct, or reporting, or dissemination plans of this research. the urine dipstick and/or sediment is performed and the Patient consent for publication Not required. urine culture is not executed. Provenance and peer review Not commissioned; externally peer reviewed. The urine culture has been used, both in daily prac- Open access This is an
