Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


ABSTRACT This discussion stresses the normal occurrence of immune self-reactivity, the genetic and environmental forces that may amplify such responses, the role of the antigen-driven immune attack, secondary disease-enhancing factors, and the important contributory role of antigen-independent immune reactivity. Research on thyroid autoimmunity has benefited greatly by knowledge of the specific target antigens and easy access to blood cells and involved target tissue. As research moves apace in realm of molecular genetics and investigation of environmental factors that cause disease, we may look for rapid progress in understanding and controlling these common illnesses. For complete coverage of this and all related ares of Endocrinology, please see our FREE web-book www.endotext.org. A Brief Review of Immunologic Reactions The human immune system is comprised of about 2 X 10 12 lymphocytes containing approximately equal ratios of T and B cells. B lymphocytes synthesize immunoglobulins that are first expressed on their membranes as clonally distributed antigen-specific receptors and then secreted as antibodies following antigenic stimulation. The ability of the immune system to recognize antigens is remarkable. A human being can produce more than 10 7 antibodies with different specificities. The concentration of antibodies in human serum is 15 mg/ml, which represents about 3 x 10 20 immunoglobulin molecules per person! Since each B cell has approximately 10 5 antibody molecules of identical specificity on its surface, the human humoral immune system scans the antigenic universe with about 10 17 cell bound receptors. To maximize the chances of encountering antigen, lymphocytes recirculate from blood to lymphoid tissues and back to the blood. The 10 10 lymphocytes in human blood have a mean residence time of approximately 30 minutes, thus an exchange rate of almost 50 times per day. T lymphocytes develop from precursor stem cells in fetal liver and bone marrow and differentiate into mature cell types during residence in the thymus. Mature T lymphocytes are present in thymus, spleen, lymph nodes, throughout skin and other lymphatic organs, and in the bloodstream. B lymphocytes (immunoglobulin producing cells) develop from precursor cells in fetal liver and bone marrow and are found in all lymphoid organs and in the bloodstream. The ontogeny and functions of these cells have been identified in a variety of ways, including morphologic and functional criteria, and by antibodies identifying surface proteins which correlate to a varying extent with specific functions. Lymphocytes develop through stages leading to pools of cells which can
