Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


J and C segments, and additional variations in DNA sequence introduced in the J and D region during recombination, provides the enormous diversity of specific TCRs required to recognize the entire universe of T cell antigens. This process also means that all individuals have (before clonal deletion) preformed TCRs able to recognize thyroid autoantigens as well as thousands of other autoantigens. Each TCR recognizes one specific antigenic peptide sequence termed an epitope (5), which consists of 8 - 9 amino acids for class I restricted T cells, and 13 - 17 amino acids for class II restricted T cells. However, T cells respond to several portions epitopes of any one antigen; these may represent overlapping peptide segments of the epitope. Thus the response of each individual T (and B) cell is extremely specific, but the combined effect of many T (and B) cells acting together is observed in the typical final polyclonal response. T cells recognize antigen presented by an MHC-molecule; CD4+ T cells (often functioning as helper cells) recognize MHC class II molecules plus antigenic epitope, and CD8+ T cells (often functioning as cytotoxic cells) recognize MHC class I molecules plus antigenic epitope. The epitope fits within a cleft in the HLA-DR molecule and the TCR functions to recognize this complex (Fig. 7-3). The five associated peptides of the CD3 complex are believed to be signal-transducers and to initiate intracellular events following antigen recognition. The normal response proceeds via TCR antigen recognition, then activation of the T cell through the combined effect of antigen recognition and costimulatory signals (see below) leading to T cell IL-2 secretion and IL-2 receptor expression, followed by proliferation of the T cell into an active clone. Figure 7-3: In this diagram the antigen is depicted in a cleft of the HLA-DR molecule on an APC, being recognized by the T cell TCR. "Adhesive" peptide segments may augment close contact. A CD4 molecule is associated with the TCR. Presumably the APC surface is normally covered with many DR molecules, each studded with an antigen. T cells must somehow scan these complexes in order to find the one that best fits their TCR. Lymphocyte development is controlled by cytokines released by macrophages, dendritic cells, lymphocytes, and many other cells. Both T and B cells release a large array of cytokines which carry out their effector functions and alter the function of other cells (Fig. 7-1, Table
