Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


many other cells. Both T and B cells release a large array of cytokines which carry out their effector functions and alter the function of other cells (Fig. 7-1, Table 7-2). As lymphocytes mature in the thymus, and become activated on exposure to antigen, the types of cytokines to which they respond -- and produce -- become altered. In animals, and to a lesser extent in man, types of lymphocytes can be operationally defined by the cytokines produced. For example, Th1 T cells produce IL-2, IFN-g and TNF and are predominant in delayed hypersensitivity type reactions, whereas Th2 T cells produce IL-4 and IL-5, stimulate B cells, and are involved especially in antibody-mediated reactions. Cytokines produced by Th1 cells enhance the activity of this subset but inhibit Th2 cells, and vice versa. This type of regulation may be critical in determining an immune response and in suppressor phenomena. Additional Th subsets are now recognized, including Th17 cells which secrete IL-17 see below), as well as Th9 and Th22 cells which also have discrete pathological roles. As well as cytokines and their receptors, T cells express a number of receptors for chemokines, integrins and selectins which are involved in the sequential stages of cell adhesion which leads to T cell homing to tissues (7). A word of caution is necessary however in terms of translating these findings into the human situation where boundaries between the subsets are less clear. It is also increasingly recognized that the simple dichotomy of T cells into two types is over-simple, with cytokines such as IL-12 being assigned to the Th1 subset although not being secreted by T cells, and production of this cytokine is stimulated by the Th2 cytokines IL-4 and IL-13, which will drive the immune response from Th2 towards Th1. The blurring of pattern that is seen in many autoimmune diseases challenges the dogma of an easy divide in the type of immune response. Each B cell produces a unique immunoglobulin (Ig) programmed by an Ig gene which has also been rearranged from the germline V, D, J, and C segments (as for the TCR) (8). The TCR and Ig genes are, not surprisingly, members of one gene superfamily. Further diversity is provided by antigen-driven somatic mutations which occur during amplification of the progeny of a stimulated B cell, causing the production of a family of antibodies with slightly different sequences. B cells
