Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


by antigen-driven somatic mutations which occur during amplification of the progeny of a stimulated B cell, causing the production of a family of antibodies with slightly different sequences. B cells secrete their unique antibodies into surrounding fluids, and also express surface Ig which is therefore a B cell receptor for antigen (Fig. 7-4). The recognition process by antibodies involves the shape of the epitope - i.e. it is conformational and for B cells normally involves unprocessed antigen. Thus B cell and T cell epitopes for the same antigen are usually different segments or forms of the molecule. Figure 7-4: The B cell surface is studded with specific Ig molecules which function as high affinity receptors for specific antigen epitopes which match the shape of the Ig recognition idiotype. Antigen Presentation On Mhc Molecules The genes for the HLA‑A, B, C and HLA‑DR, DP, DQ molecules are on chromosome 6, and comprise some of the genes in a large immune response control complex (Fig. 7-5). Each cell surface HLA molecule is made up of 2 peptide chains; an a chain and b2 microglobulin for class I molecules, and a and b chains for class II. Each individual inherits from each parent one HLA-A, B, and C, one DRa and 3 DRb genes, a pair each of DP and DQa and b genes, and other related genes which are not expressed, including DX and DO (Fig. 7-5). The genes are expressed in a co-dominant manner, and (in contrast to TCR and Ig molecules) are invariant in individuals. However, the genes are all highly polymorphic, that is, many alleles may exist for each gene. The actual evolutionary drive for this diversity is unknown. While TCR gene rearrangement provides the T cell repertoire to respond to individual antigens, HLA diversity guarantees that different individuals will have different T cell repertoires, which confers evolutionary advantage to the species in terms of responding to new pathogens. Figure 7-5: Partial map of the short arm of human chromosome 6 showing the molecular organization of the area containing the MHC loci, with details of the HLA Class I, II, and III genes. Map distances in kilobases were determined by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis. Genes are not drawn to scale. Expressed genes are designated by filled boxes _ (|_|). (From Trowsdale, J. and Campbell, R.D. Physical map of the human HLA region. Immunology Today, 9:34, 1988.) The HLA molecules play
