Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


Expressed genes are designated by filled boxes _ (|_|). (From Trowsdale, J. and Campbell, R.D. Physical map of the human HLA region. Immunology Today, 9:34, 1988.) The HLA molecules play a central role in T cell clonal selection during fetal development, in normal immune responses, and in presentation of self-antigens. In many instances -- including autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD) as detailed below -- inheritance of a specific HLA gene correlates with increased susceptibility to disease. In some cases this can be related to a gene coding for a specific amino acid in the HLA molecule which is believed to control epitope selection (often called determinant selection) and thus to be associated with disease susceptibility. Antigen can be presented to CD4 + T cells by conventional (or "professional") APCs, particularly dendritic cells (9), and also by B cells and activated T cells, and less effectively by a variety of other cells (fibroblasts, glial cells, thyrocytes), when these normally HLA-DR-negative cells are altered and express HLA class II molecules on their surface. This is because non-classical APCs cannot provide the necessary costimulatory signals, including the B7-1 (CD80) and B7-2 (CD86) molecules, which bind to CD28 on the T cell and are necessary for activation of certain T cells. If B7 molecules bind instead to CD152 (CTLA-4) on the T cell, the immune response is terminated. The individual roles of CD80 and CD86 are not clearly established, although some functions appear to be distinct (e.g. CD80 appears to stimulate CD152) and some overlapping (e.g. both stimulate CD28), and the tempo of their involvement at different times of the immune response is likely to be critical to the type of response produced. The maturation state of the dendritic cell is another determinant of immune homeostasis. Semi-maturation, induced by proinflammatory cytokines like TNF-a, allows the development of a tolerogenic stage for these cells. Full maturation, induced by signaling through toll-like receptors, complement receptors or antibody Fc receptors, induces proinflammatory cytokine production by the dendritic cell and allows them to generate T cell immunity. T And B Cell Responses Antigen presentation to T cells leads to a variety of responses which include proliferative or suppressive functions, development of cell cytotoxic responses, control of Ig secretion, and many more. In addition, under specific circumstances, antigen presentation may cause the T cell to become non-responsive or anergic (10). Presentation of antigen and the accompanying second signal are required
