Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


many more. In addition, under specific circumstances, antigen presentation may cause the T cell to become non-responsive or anergic (10). Presentation of antigen and the accompanying second signal are required to activate a naive T cell and initiate an immune response; previously activated T cells are much less dependent on B7-mediated costimulation. Antigen recognition and APC-produced cytokines (Table 7-2) together cause T cell stimulation. This activates the T cell to express IL-2 receptors and to secrete IL-2 itself. Increased T-cell secreted IL-2 induces the responding T cell, and nearby ("bystander") T cells to proliferate. T-cell secreted IL-2, IL-6 and other cytokines and IL-4 cause B cells to be stimulated and proliferate and cell surface receptors such as CD40 on B cells and its ligand on T cells are also involved in B cell activation (11). B cells themselves secrete distinct profiles of cytokines, in response to the engagement on CD40, and these cytokines can upregulate or downgregulate an immune response in a manner which depends on whether the B cell is simultaneously stimulated by antigen (12). Intimate T-cell to B-cell contact may account for antigen-specific help for T cell and B cell responses, whereas the effect of T cell-secreted cytokines on bystander T or B cells may account for stimulation of non-antigen-specific responses by these lymphocytes. The beneficial effects of rituximab, a CD20 specific, B depleting monoclonal antibody, in autoimmune conditions including Graves’ disease (13) is related to its effects on inhibiting this interaction between T and B cells. Th1 cells function as inflammatory cells, typical of a delayed hypersensitivity type reaction, while Th2 cells are more specifically helper cells for B cell immunoglobulin synthesis. A number of factors including TCR affinity and ligand density, and non-T cell-derived cytokines such as IL-4 and IL-12, determine whether the outcome of an immune response is predominantly by Th1 or Th2 cells. A third population of T helper cells has been defined recently, based on their secretion of the pleiotropic proinflammatory cytokine IL-17, and are so called Th17 cells. The differentiation and expansion of these cells depends on the coordinate effects of IL-6, transforming growth factor beta (TGFβ) and IL-23 (14). These Th17 cells are responsible for defense against certain micro-organisms such as Klebsiella , Borrelia and fungi. Of relevance to this discussion, they also have important roles in tissue inflammation and organ-specific autoimmunity. Although the concept of suppressor cells fell into disrepute
