Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


Klebsiella , Borrelia and fungi. Of relevance to this discussion, they also have important roles in tissue inflammation and organ-specific autoimmunity. Although the concept of suppressor cells fell into disrepute during the late 1980s, there has been resurgence in interest with the recognition that CD4 + cells expressing high levels of the IL-2 receptor, CD25, act in a way entirely in keeping with the previously defined suppressor population. These CD4 + , CD25 + T cells have been termed regulatory or Treg cells. Such cells can prevent autoimmunity when transferred from healthy, naïve animals and their depletion results in autoimmune disease. Such cells express Foxp3 which encodes a critical transcription factor for their function: mutation of this gene in man results in the lethal immunological disorder IPEX syndrome that includes autoimmune hypothyroidism amongst its manifestations (15). APCs have a central role in controlling Treg cells, with resting APCs (including thymic epithelial cells) promoting their development through the induction of the transcription factor Foxp3 (16). Activation of APCs, for instance through their T cell-like receptors, has the opposite effect, and at least one component responsible for the suppression of Tregs then is the cytokine IL-6; this pathway allows effector T cells to predominate over Tregs, thereby shifting the dynamic equilibrium in favor of an immune (or autoimmune) response. Another critical molecule in the Treg cell pathway is the costimulatory signal receptor, CD28, which is required for both development and maintenance of Treg function. TGFβ exposure induces Tregs, but when combined with IL-6, Th17 effector cells are generated. The absence or presence of IL-6 is thus critical to determining whether there is a regulatory milieu or a proinflammatory response mounted by Th17 cells. Both Th1 and Th17 cells are potent inducers of organ-specific autoimmunity, but their relative roles in each type of disease remain to be clarified. It is increasingly clear that Treg are more complex a group of cells than originally clear. T regulatory cells can be classified as those which arise within the thymus and express Foxp3, and a Th3-like population which probably does not express this molecule and which develops in the periphery. More recently described regulatory cells have been phenotyped as CD4+CD69+ and CD4+NKG2D+ T cells. The glucocorticoid inducible tumor necrosis factor receptor (GITR) is expressed by both populations but CD25 bright expression is not a requirement for regulatory T cell function. The reciprocal relationship between Th1 and
