Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


inducible tumor necrosis factor receptor (GITR) is expressed by both populations but CD25 bright expression is not a requirement for regulatory T cell function. The reciprocal relationship between Th1 and Th2 cells, exerted through secretion of cytokines, serves as another model of suppressor function. This paradigm is conceptually useful but is almost certainly too simplistic, not least because there may exist within the Th2 compartment different types of T cells, some with pathological effector function and others which act as physiological regulators of Th1 responses. Endeavors to manipulate the entire Th2 population, to deviate an immune response away from Th1 cells, may therefore lead to exacerbation of the immune response, and may explain the reciprocal relation between the prevalence of infectious disease and autoimmunity (18). Killer (K) And Natural Killer (Nk) Cells In addition to the standard T cell function described above, other cells participate in immune responses. Macrophages may destroy cells having immune complexes on their surface through recognition of the Fc portion of bound Ig. Other cells which do not bear the CD3 marker of T cell lineage exist (K and NK cells) and have the ability to spontaneously kill other cells (especially those expressing HLA antigens). NK cells can be detected by specific monoclonal antibodies such as anti-CD16, and are recognized phenotypically as large granular lymphocytes. Like T cells, NK cells can have a type 1 or 2 pattern of cytokine release. Macrophages, T, K, NK, or other cells also kill cells coated with immune complexes in the process of antibody-dependent-cell-cytotoxicity (ADCC) (Fig. 7-6). Figure 7-6: Some of the proposed mechanisms which could produce thyroid damage in AITD. Emperipolesis is the movement of lymphocytes and macrophages between epithelial cells and occurs in many organs such as gut, bronchus, and thyroid. The existence of interepithelial cells with immunoreactive potential is obviously relevant to an understanding of how autoantigens at the luminal surface of the thyroid cells may be exposed to allow recognition. (From Weetman AP, McGregor AM. Endocrine Rev 5: 309-355, 1984 ). Self-Non-Self Discrimination The immune system, which evolved to defend us from invading foreign proteins, normally tolerates (i.e. does not develop recognizable responses to) self‑antigens. The level of this control is variable. For example, self‑reactivity to serum albumin is not seen. However, antibodies to thyroid antigens exist in up to 20% of adult women, and their presence must be considered effectively normal. The development of tolerance
