Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


serum albumin is not seen. However, antibodies to thyroid antigens exist in up to 20% of adult women, and their presence must be considered effectively normal. The development of tolerance is closely associated with the restriction of TCRs to recognizing an antigen only when presented by an HLA molecule. The process, which for T cells occurs in the fetal thymus, leads to elimination of some T cells, and retention of others with TCRs having desirable features. Self-antigens are believed to be presented on HLA molecules to T cells developing in the thymus. This implies that antigen must be in the thymus or in the circulation for tolerance to develop and indeed we now know that specialized cells in the thymus can express a panoply of autoantigens during development. T cells bearing autoreative TCRs are largely inactivated or destroyed. T cells which have the capacity to react with foreign antigens presented by self MHC molecules are allowed and retained (Fig. 7-7). This system is imperfect however and some T cells which react with MHC molecules plus self-antigen are not deleted, which is the fundamental explanation for autoimmunity. Figure 7-7: Left: Fetal Thymus; T cells strongly activated by DR alone, or strongly reactive to self-antigen presented by HLA molecules, are selectively destroyed. T cells, with a weak or absent response to DR alone, or to DR+ self-antigen, survive. Center: Normal Adult Immune Reaction; T cell TCR and APC-DR interaction is normally a weak or neutral signal. The presence of allo-antigen serves to switch the signal to positive. Right: Allo-MLR; Allogeneic DR is sufficiently different from autologous DR to act as a positive signal with or without antigen present. The best evidence that thymic T cell deletion prevents autoimmunity in man comes from autoimmune polyglandular syndrome (APS) type 1, which is the result of an autosomal recessive mutation in the AIRE (AutoImmune REgulator) gene. Such patients have multiple autoimmune disorders, principally Addison’s disease and hypoparathyroidism but including thyroid autoimmunity. The AIRE protein is expressed in the thymus by medullary epithelial cells and regulates the surprising expression of an array of self proteins (normally confined to extrathymic tissues) by these cells during fetal development. When through the AIRE mutation such self-antigens cannot be expressed to allow clonal deletion, autoimmunity ensues and this accounts for the early onset multiple autoimmunity found in this syndrome (reviewed in 19). Recently, dominant mutations in AIRE have been identified
