Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


to allow clonal deletion, autoimmunity ensues and this accounts for the early onset multiple autoimmunity found in this syndrome (reviewed in 19). Recently, dominant mutations in AIRE have been identified and such patients have later-onset, milder phenotypes (19b). During maturation in the thymus, probably 95% or more of the lymphocytes produced are negatively selected, and die through a process described as programmed cell death or apoptosis. This process involves several genes including those required for apoptosis, such as Fas. A similar process is thought to ensue whenever a T cell is stimulated by its cognate antigen but does not receive a "second signal", and during induction of anergy by other mechanisms. Defects in Fas lead to preservation of autoreactive T cells in some models of animal autoimmune disease. This trade-off between perfection in clonal deletion and repertoire maintenance allows a limited number of autoreactive T cells to survive, and thus sets the stage for autoimmune disease. The main mechanism to prevent autoimmunity by these escaped cells and also to induce tolerance to autoantigens not present in the fetal thymus or circulation is termed peripheral (i.e. non-thymic or central) tolerance, and is mainly effected by the Tregs described above. B cells undergo a similar selection process in fetal bone marrow or liver, except for the participation of MHC molecules. If exposed to antigen during this early stage of development, B cells are permanently inactivated. As for T cells, the selection process is not perfect, and leaves some B cells having the ability to make antibodies directed to self‑antigens in the adult. However, B cells require T cell help in order to proliferate and differentiate into mature Ig secreting cells. In the absence of self‑reactive T helper cells, these B cells remain dormant and expanding clones do not develop. Although such clonal ignorance may be an important pathway in preventing B cell autoreactivity, it is not the only mechanism, and physiological concentrations of autoantigen may induce anergy of B cells, even when their affinity for autoantigen is low. Tolerance to self‑antigen can be overcome ("broken") in animals by injecting the antigen in an unusual site on the body, especially in the presence of adjuvant compounds such as mycobacterial fragments and oil, or alum, or by slightly altering the antigen structure, or by altering the responding immune system (for example, by whole body irradiation, or depletion of suppressor T cells). An additional mechanism
