Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


alum, or by slightly altering the antigen structure, or by altering the responding immune system (for example, by whole body irradiation, or depletion of suppressor T cells). An additional mechanism for the inflammatory component of many autoimmune disorders has recently been proposed based on the evolutionary origins of mitochondria from bacteria. Given that the prime function of the immune system is to defend the organism from microbes, it is possible that the immune system may mistake mitochondria released from damaged tissue through pattern-recognition receptors and thereby induce a ‘mistaken’ inflammatory response (20). The Syndromes of Thyroid Autoimmunity The three syndromes classically comprising autoimmune thyroid disease are (1) Graves' disease with goiter, hyperthyroidism and, in many patients, associated ophthalmopathy (2) Hashimoto's thyroiditis with goiter and euthyroidism or hypothyroidism; and (3) primary thyroid failure or myxedema. Many variations of these syndromes are also recognized, including transient thyroid dysfunction occurring independently of pregnancy and in 5 - 6% of postpartum women, neonatal hyperthyroidism, and neonatal hypothyroidism. The syndromes are bound together by their similar thyroid pathology, similar immune mechanisms, co-occurrence in family groups, and transition from one clinical picture to the other within the same individual over time. The immunological mechanisms involved in these three diseases must be closely related, while the phenotypes probably differ because of the specific type of immunological response that occurs. For example, if immunity against the TSH receptor leads to production of thyroid stimulating antibodies, Graves' disease is produced, whereas if TSH blocking antibodies are formed or a cell destructive process occurs, the result is Hashimoto's thyroiditis or primary myxedema. Associated with autoimmune thyroid disease in some patients are other organ specific autoimmune syndromes including pernicious anemia, vitiligo, myasthenia gravis, primary adrenal autoimmune disease, ovarian insufficiency, rarely pituitary insufficiency, alopecia, and sometimes Sjögren's syndrome or rheumatoid arthritis or lupus, as manifestations of non-organ specific autoimmunity. There has also been a description of pituitary antibodies and growth hormone deficiency in around a third of patients with autoimmune hypothyroidism, implying the existence of a substantial reservoir of pituitary autoimmunity in these patients but further work is needed to confirm these findings and to understand the basis for the autoimmune response against the pituitary (21). The Antigens in AUTOIMMUNE THYROID DISEASE Thyroglobulin The three most important antigens involved in thyroid autoimmunity are clearly defined. First to be recognized was thyroglobulin (TG), the 670 kD protein synthesized in thyroid cells and in
