Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


Thyroglobulin The three most important antigens involved in thyroid autoimmunity are clearly defined. First to be recognized was thyroglobulin (TG), the 670 kD protein synthesized in thyroid cells and in which T3 and T4 are produced. Four to six B cell epitopes of TG are known to be involved in the human autoimmune responses and epitope recognition is similar in both Graves’ disease and Hashimoto’s thyroiditis (22). Animal studies suggest that antigenicity of the molecule is related to iodine content, but studies on human antisera do not consistently bear this out: these species differences and the role of measuring TG antibodies in thyroid disease are reviewed elsewhere (23). Mouse experiments suggest that, to induce autoimmunity to TG, initial tolerance to dominant epitopes must be overcome, and the immune response then spreads to cryptic epitopes that are the major inducers of thyroidal T cell infiltration (24). One particular TG T cell epitope, Tg.2098, has been identified which is a strong and specific binder to the MHC class II disease susceptibility HLA-DRβ1-Arg74 molecule, and stimulates T cells from both mice and humans that develop AITD (25). This could be a major T cell epitope which might be involved in pathogenesis through initiating an immune response that then spreads to involve other autoantigens. Furthermore, screening a diverse library of small molecules has identified one, cepharanthine, which blocked Tg.2098 peptide binding and presentation to T cells in mice with experimental autoimmune thyroiditis; such an approach has obvious therapeutic potential (25a). Tsh Receptor The second antigen to be identified was the TSH receptor (TSH-R), a 764 aa glycoprotein. Antibodies to TSH‑R mimic the function of TSH, and cause disease by binding to the TSH‑R and stimulating (or inhibiting) thyroid cells, as described later. The human TSH-R is a member of a family of cell surface hormone receptors which are characterized by an extra-membranous portion, seven transmembrane loops, and an intracellular domain which binds the G S subunit of adenyl cyclase (26, 27). Uniquely among G-protein-coupled receptors TSH-R undergoes post-translational cleavage to comprise a 53kD extracellular A subunit (53 kDa) and transmembrane and intracellular B subunit coupled by disulfide bridges. The A subunit may be shed provoking speculation on the role of this in stimulating autoimmunity. Recent evidence indicates that in Graves' disease TSHR antibody affinity maturation is driven by A-subunit multimers rather than monomers (27a). Human TSH-R B cell epitopes are conformational and composed of
