Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


Recent evidence indicates that in Graves' disease TSHR antibody affinity maturation is driven by A-subunit multimers rather than monomers (27a). Human TSH-R B cell epitopes are conformational and composed of several segments of the protein. The initial description of mouse and hamster monoclonal TSH-R antibodies was significant for several reasons (28-30). Firstly, these antibodies confirmed that a single antibody was sufficient to activate the receptor, rather than two or more simultaneously. Secondly, they have permitted epitope mapping. One antibody preferentially recognized the free A subunit, not the holoreceptor, suggesting that free A subunit, shed from thyroid cells, may initiate or amplify the autoimmune response. Another antibody, in contrast to TSH, did not enhance post-translational TSH-R cleavage, which may extend the receptor half-life and thus account for the prolonged thyroid stimulation seen following antibody binding. Finally, these antibodies paved the way for the development of human monoclonal antibodies which have allowed a greatly improved understanding of the mechanisms involved in Graves’ disease. The first human monoclonal TSH-R stimulating antibody bound to the TSH-R with high affinity, either as IgG or as Fab fragment, and the monoclonal had similar features in all respects to known TSAb (thyroid stimulating antibodies) (31). This observation indicated that only a single species of antibody is needed to stimulate the receptor. More conventional approaches based on different methods of expressing the TSH-R have shown that TSAb preferentially recognize the free A subunit rather than the holoreceptor, either because of steric hindrance from the plasma membrane or membrane spanning region of the receptor or because of TSH-R dimerization (32). The epitopes for TBAb overlap with those for TSAb but are more focused on the C terminus and are able to recognize holoreceptor more efficiently. These observations have provided support from the hypothesis that shedding of free TSH-R A subunits may be critical in initiating or amplifying the autoimmune response in Graves’ disease. Further evidence comes from immunization of mice with adenoviruses expressing different structural forms of the TSH-R: goiter and hyperthyroidism occur more frequently when mice are given virus that expresses the free A subunit rather than a receptor with minimal cleavage into subunits (33). Patients with autoimmune thyroid disease may have both stimulating and blocking antibodies in their sera, the clinical picture being the result of the relative potency of each species. Switching between one type of antibody and another in unusual patients, involving changes in concentration,
