Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


their sera, the clinical picture being the result of the relative potency of each species. Switching between one type of antibody and another in unusual patients, involving changes in concentration, potency and affinity, may be caused by a number of factors including levothyroxine treatment, antithyroid drug treatment and pregnancy, and can lead to difficulties in clinical care (35). TSH-R neutral antibodies have also been identified which do not block TSH binding and are unable to stimulate cAMP production; these antibodies are capable of inducing thyroid cell apoptosis in vitro and therefore could conceivably play a role in pathogenesis by inducing release of thyroid autoantigens (36). Identification of the critical T cell epitopes has proved elusive although peptides 132-150 do appear to constitute one key epitope; there is poor correlation between binding affinity and T cell immunogenicity in experiments to attempt such localization (37). In animal studies, however, there is clear evidence of epitope spreading when mice are immunized with TSH-R peptide epitopes or TSH-R cDNA, indicating that dominant TSH-R epitopes are, at best, elusive (38). TSH-R mRNA transcripts and protein have been identified in retrobulbar ocular tissue, particularly the preadipocyte fibroblast, suggesting that TSH-R expression in the orbit could well be involved in the development of autoimmunity and ophthalmopathy, and similar TSH-R-expressing fibroblasts have also been found in the thyroid gland itself (39). Further support for involvement of the TSH-R comes from experiments showing that activation of the TSH-R stimulates early differentiation of preadipocytes, but terminal differentiation is not induced (40). An animal model with some features of similarity to human ophthalmopathy has been induced in mice by immunization with TSH-R A subunit plasmid given by a specific electroporation protocol (41). Oddly there was no thyroid lymphocytic infiltrate to accompany these orbital changes, which were very heterogeneous between immunized animals. It should also be noted parenthetically that an alternative pathway for fibroblast involvement in ophthalmopathy has been proposed which depends on the production of insulin-like growth factor antibodies in these patients but it is difficult to reconcile these findings with the orbital specificity of the autoimmune process in thyroid eye disease (42). Most recently, TSH-R has been identified in immature thymocytes, which can be stimulated by TSAb. This could in turn explain why thymic hyperplasia is seen in occasional cases of Graves’ disease (42a). Thyroid Peroxidase The third thyroid antigen was described as "microsomal antigen" was identified as thyroid peroxidase
