Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


turn explain why thymic hyperplasia is seen in occasional cases of Graves’ disease (42a). Thyroid Peroxidase The third thyroid antigen was described as "microsomal antigen" was identified as thyroid peroxidase (TPO) in 1985 (43) (Fig. 7-8). DeGroot’s laboratory demonstrated that human antisera reacting to "microsomal antigen" precipitated human thyroid peroxidase (TPO) prepared from Graves' disease thyroid tissue () (Fig. 7-8) and at the same time Czarnocka et al. purified human TPO and confirmed identity with the microsomal antigen (44). The cDNA was cloned and sequenced in several laboratories (45-48). The interaction of human anti-TPO antisera and monoclonal antibodies also indicate the presence of several B cell epitopes which map to two main domains, A and B (reviewed in 49). Further experiments with monoclonal antibodies have defined individual amino acid residues that are critical for the two immunodominant regions (50). The epitopes recognized by antibodies are stable within a patient and may be genetically determined (51). Investigation of TPO epitopes recognized by T cells from patients with AITD has produced conflicting results but certain sequences are beginning to emerge which are shared between reports on various patients (52, 53). There is also debate as to whether patients with autoimmune hypothyroidism differ in their pattern of epitope recognition from healthy controls who are TPO antibody positive, and further work is required to analyze this in detail, as it might allow better prediction of those antibody positive individuals who will progress to overt hypothyroidism (54) TPO is expressed on the thyroid cell surface as well as in the cytoplasm, and likely represents the cell-surface antigen involved in complement-mediated cytotoxicity as well as antibody-dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity (55). Intracytoplasmic binding of antibodies to TPO indicates that there is access Figure 7-8: Precipitation of peroxidase activity by sera from a patient with autoimmune thyroid disease and positive "microsomal" antibodies, and from a control subject without circulating antibodies. TPO was precipitated by primary incubation with human sera, and removal of TPO-Ig complexes was achieved by addition of Protein H-Sepharose CL-4B. Residual hTPO activity in the supernatant was assayed in a guaiacol assay. Other Antigens Antibodies against the sodium/iodide symporter (NIS) were first shown functionally in cultured dog thyroid cells (56). Up to a third of Graves’ disease sera contain antibodies capable of blocking NIS-mediated iodide uptake in cells transfected with the human NIS but the relevance of this for thyroid function is unclear (57). The same
