Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


disease sera contain antibodies capable of blocking NIS-mediated iodide uptake in cells transfected with the human NIS but the relevance of this for thyroid function is unclear (57). The same antibodies have also been detected using an immunoprecipitation assay (58). Others have found no such blocking activity using assays with cell lines displaying much higher 131 I uptake, in turn suggesting that any NIS blocking activity only occurs at limiting conditions (59). This implies that NIS autoantibodies probably have no effect in vivo. NIS expression on TECs is upregulated by TSH and downregulated by cytokines and the latter could impair thyroid function in the setting of AITD when such cytokines are synthesized in the thyroid (60). Pendrin, an apical protein responsible for mediating iodide efflux from thyroid cells into the follicular lumen, has also been identified as an autoantigen. Autoantibodies were initially found in 81% of patients with AITD by immunoblotting (more frequently and at higher titer in Hashimoto’s than Graves’ patients) and also in 9% of controls (61), but the frequency of these autoantibodies detected using a radioligand binding assay is rather low at around 10% of patients and no controls (62). Antibodies to a variety of other thyroid cell components are also occasionally present in AITD, including antibodies that react with thyroxine or triiodothyronine (63). The insulin-like growth factor receptor has also emerged as a possible autoantigen involved in ophthalmopathy, with antibodies being detected in patients with this complication, and this receptor co-localizes with the TSH-R on both fibroblasts and thyrocytes (64). Immune Reactions in Autoimmune thyroid disease Humoral Immunity The principal autoantibodies identified in AITD and the methods for detecting them are listed in Table 7-3. Antibodies to the TSH receptor are discussed in detail in Chapter 10, but, in brief, observation of a factor in serum of patients with Graves' disease causing long acting stimulation of thyroid hormone release from an animal's thyroid, in contrast to the short acting stimulation produced by TSH, led directly to our knowledge of TSH-R antibodies. We summarize here a huge amount of clinical and laboratory research. The antibodies directed to the TSH-R are currently separated into three types. Some antibodies bind to an important epitope in TSH-R and activate the receptor, producing the same effects as TSH, in particular causing generation of cyclic AMP. These antibodies may be referred to as TSI or TSAb -- thyroid stimulating immunoglobulins or thyroid
