Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


are restricted to particular heavy and light chain subclasses, which may indicate an oligoclonal origin (67), and TSH-R stimulating antibodies are present at much lower concentration than TG and TPO antibodies. Normal subjects can have TSH-R antibodies that bind to but do not activate the TSH-R and that generally have low affinity. These natural autoantibodies may be the precursors of the TSI that cause Graves’ disease and it is possible that affinity maturation, with class switching of immunoglobulin isotype, is critical in determining the clinical consequences of TSH-R antibody production. Conversely, using the most sensitive binding assays, there are still a very small number of patients with Graves’ disease who are apparently negative for these antibodies when their serum is tested; it is likely that the explanation lies in either assay sensitivity or exclusively intrathyroidal production of these antibodies (68). Precipitating antibodies to TG were first detected by mixing antibody and antigen in equivalent concentrations, or by agar gel diffusion, as in the Ouchterlony plate technique. Subsequently, much more sensitive methods were developed, such as solid phase ELISA (69) and RIA (70), although for many years the tanned red cell hemagglutination test remained the assay of choice (71). Immunoradiometric assays (IRMA) used currently involve binding of serum antibodies to solid phase antigen, and secondary quantitation of antibody by binding labelled monoclonal anti-human Ig antibody. These tests are very sensitive but lack specificity as so many healthy individuals are positive, albeit with a future risk of developing AITD. Antibodies directed against TG are rarely present in children without evidence of thyroid disease. The prevalence in healthy persons increases with age, and low levels are frequently present in normal adults (72). The greatest frequency occurs in women aged 40‑60 years. The frequency of antibodies in well persons correlates with the incidence of focal lymphocytic infiltration found on microscopic examination of thyroid tissue form healthy individuals (73). Over 90% of patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis and primary myxedema have these antibodies. Low to moderate titers are found in half of patients with Graves' disease. TG antibodies are either absent or low in patients with subacute (De Quervain's) thyroiditis, who may present clinically like patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis. In general human TG and its autoantibody bind complement weakly due to the widely scattered epitopes which are unable to allow antibody cross-linking. The second important antigen-antibody system was originally recognized by antibodies which, by immunofluorescence, were
