Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


bind complement weakly due to the widely scattered epitopes which are unable to allow antibody cross-linking. The second important antigen-antibody system was originally recognized by antibodies which, by immunofluorescence, were observed to bind to non-denatured thyroid cytoplasm, to fix complement in the presence of human thyroid membranes (microsomes), or to bind to microsome‑coated red cells (the MCHA assay). We now know this antigen is TPO (see previous Section 3) (Fig. 7-8). Almost all patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis have TPO antibodies. They also occur in the normal population in the absence of clinically significant thyroid disease: in a recent survey of a population followed for 20 years, 26% of adult women and 9% of adult men had TPO and/or TG antibodies (74). However, the presence of such antibodies was shown to be associated with an increased risk of future hypothyroidism, especially if the TSH was also raised (subclinical hypothyroidism). Few sera from AITD contain TG antibodies in the absence of TPO antibodies, but the converse is not always true, so it has been proposed that screening for AITD could be undertaken initially with assays for TPO antibodies (75). This is particularly the case if the hemagglutination assay is used for TG antibodies; sensitive RIAs may detect a very high frequency of TG antibodies in individuals with autoimmune thyroid disease, even more than TPO antibodies (76). Using modern types of assay, TG antibodies occurring in isolation from TPO antibodies are more commonly found, and thus measurement of both antibodies might have clinical utility in certain situations, for instance in diagnosing possible causes for impaired fertility in women (77). Antibodies detected by these techniques are believed to be similar to antibodies first described in the 1950s that fix complement in the presence of extracts from a thyrotoxic gland (78) and that have cytotoxic effects on thyroid cells (79). Sera from patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis usually have high cytotoxic activity (80). Complement-mediated sublethal injury probably occurs in vivo since complement containing complexes have been identified in thyroid tissue of patients with Graves’ disease and Hashimoto’s thyroiditis (81). Thyroid cell expression of membrane proteins, especially CD59, helps prevent complement-mediated lysis (82), and this protein is upregulated by IL-1 and IFN-g. The cytotoxicity of circulating antibodies has also been explored using systems to detect antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) in which nonimmunized lymphocytes (NK cells) or macrophages act as effector cells and kill antigen-coated target cells, following
