Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


has also been explored using systems to detect antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) in which nonimmunized lymphocytes (NK cells) or macrophages act as effector cells and kill antigen-coated target cells, following incubation of the targets with antibody (83, 84). This reaction does not require complement, instead depending on the interaction of antibody on the target cell with Fc receptors on the effector cells. The exact role of ADCC in the pathogenesis of autoimmune thyroid disease is unclear, as it has been investigated only as an in vitro phenomenon. Antibodies capable of mediating ADCC on target cells include those against TG and TPO, but other antigens may also be targets, and sera from patients with Hashimoto’s thyroiditis, primary myxedema and Graves’ disease cause ADCC, although the frequency is lower in Graves’ disease (85). A further possible role for TPO antibodies has been suggested by the finding that these bind to cultured astrocytes and it is therefore possible that the controversial entity of Hashimoto’s encephalopathy is the result of some autoimmune cross-reaction between thyroid and central nervous system (86). Titers for all types of thyroid autoantibody obviously increase during the process of development of AITD. It is possible that one critical step in the production of TG autoimmune responsiveness is the generation of immunoreactive C-terminal fragments during hormone synthesis (which results in oxidative stress); these fragments may also lead to preferential presentation of TG epitopes by thyroid cells (87). Natural autoantibodies against TG may be more important in the initiation of the response than previously thought. These low affinity, mainly IgM antibodies, which are frequent in healthy individuals, can complex TG with complement and such opsonized complexes can be taken up by B cells and presented to CD4 + T cells (88). After first observation, antibody levels tend to be stable over months. Radioactive iodine therapy in Graves' disease leads to a rise in thyroid antibody levels during the first few months after treatment (89), and exposure to high levels of IFN-a in those with pre-existing autoantibodies also does this (90, 91). With treatment of Graves' disease, or replacement therapy in Hashimoto's thyroiditis or myxedema, there is characteristically a gradual reduction in antibody levels over months or years, and some patients with total destruction of thyroid tissue eventually lose detectable antibody titers. There are two major conformational epitopes on the TG molecule that are recognized differentially by sera from healthy subjects and those
