Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


destruction of thyroid tissue eventually lose detectable antibody titers. There are two major conformational epitopes on the TG molecule that are recognized differentially by sera from healthy subjects and those with AITD; linear epitopes are recognized by polyclonal antibodies from healthy individuals (92-94). Similar studies on TPO have indicated at least eight major domains for human autoantibodies which are probably conformational epitopes. Using recombinant proteins and synthetic peptides, human anti-TPO antibodies are found to recognize apparently linear epitopes in the area of amino acids 590-622 and 710-722 (95) but, again, the important B cell epitopes are conformational. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and thyroid lymphocytes from patients with AITD have among them activated cells that spontaneously secrete TG and TPO antibodies (96). B cell production of antibodies to TPO and TG is most easily shown using cells incubated with mitogens (97). Specific antibody secretion in response to PBMC stimulation by TG or purified TPO is more difficult to demonstrate (98). In patients with AITD, approximately 50 B cells secreting anti-TG antibodies are found per 10 6 PBMC (~2% of total Ig secreting cells) by using plaque-forming assays after stimulation of PBMC with pokeweed mitogen. B cells from AITD patients synthesize antibodies in response to insolubilized TG bound to Sepharose (98), which appears to function as an especially good antigen. There are reports of production of anti-TSH-R antibodies in vitro, but in general this response has been difficult to observe. In fully developed AITD, the thyroid is clearly an important source of autoantibody and spontaneous autoantibody secretion by B cells is easily demonstrable (99). This is also supported by the histopathological features, including the demonstration of thyroid antigen-specific B cells and the occurrence of secondary immunoglobulin gene rearrangement in intrathyroidal lymphoid follicles, together with a congruent pattern of adhesion molecule and chemokine expression (100). However, lymph nodes, bone marrow and possibly other organs also contribute to autoantibody production (101) and this explains why patients with apparently destroyed thyroid tissue, or those with resected thyroids, continue to have circulating thyroid auto-antibodies Cell-Mediated Immunity In Autoimmune Thyroid Disease Techniques for identification of T lymphocyte reactivity to foreign or autologous antigens depend on culturing mixed peripheral leukocytes or semi-purified thyroid or blood lymphocytes with an antigen to which the cells may have been pre-sensitized. Upon re-exposure to antigen, the sensitized cells change to a blast-like immature form, synthesize new protein, RNA, and DNA, and
