Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


an antigen to which the cells may have been pre-sensitized. Upon re-exposure to antigen, the sensitized cells change to a blast-like immature form, synthesize new protein, RNA, and DNA, and directly or through liberated effector molecules alter the function of target cells. Different endpoints characterize the various assays, including measurement of [ 3 H]-thymidine uptake, assay of migration inhibition factor (MIF), or leukocyte migration inhibition (LMI) (102), assessment of the mobility of lymphocytes, and cytokine assay, all after stimulation with antigen in culture. Numerous reports have shown that T cell immunity can be detected in Graves' disease, Hashimoto’s thyroiditis, and primary myxedema, although responsivity of T cells to thyroid antigens is much less than to exogenous antigens such as tetanus toxoid or tuberculin. Peripheral blood T cells respond to incubation with TG or TPO in the form of a microsomal preparation by thymidine incorporation, the so-called proliferation assay (103, 104). Responses by separated lymphocytes are generally weak; better responses are seen by adding IL-2 to thyroid antigen-stimulated cultures of diluted whole blood (105). Thyroid T cells responding to TG are of the CD4+ T helper type (106), or occasionally CD8+ cells (107). T cells also respond to crude thyroid antigen extracts in LMI assays (102). T cell lines and short term T cell clones (CD4+) are stimulated during co-culture with TECs to incorporate [ 3 H]-thymidine; DR+ TECs are especially effective stimulators (108 - 110). The identity of the antigen recognized on TECs is unknown but may well be TPO and/or TG. The specific peptide epitope fragments of TPO recognized by lymphocytes of patients with HT were noted previously. T cell epitopes present within the extracellular domain of the TSH-R are also heterogeneous with peptides bearing sequences of aa 158-176, 237-252, and 248-263 and 343-362 being especially important (111) but other epitopes (aa 57-71, 142-161, 202-221, 247-266) have been identified by others using different assay parameters (112). HLA-DR3 molecules bind TSH-R peptides with high affinity, which may explain the genetic association of this HLA specificity with Graves’ disease (113). T cell responses to an antigenic stimulus may use a wide variety of variable (V) TCR gene segments, or the response may be restricted to a few V segments. Restriction of autoreactive T cells to use of one or more V gene segments has been found in some experimental autoimmune models (4). Restricted Va and Vb usage in the whole intrathyroidal
