Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


autoreactive T cells to use of one or more V gene segments has been found in some experimental autoimmune models (4). Restricted Va and Vb usage in the whole intrathyroidal lymphocyte population has been reported (114, 115) but not confirmed by others (116, 117). However, intrathyroidal CD8+ T cells do display a degree of restriction although their autoreactive potential is at present not known (118). Presumably at an early stage of disease, the T cell response is clonally restricted, but as it advances, spreading of the immune response occurs, involving many more epitopes, leading to an unrestricted response as demonstrated in an animal model of AITD (119). Evidence has emerged of a combined TG and TPO epitope-specific cellular immunity, with CD8+ T cells reacting against these epitopes rising to 9% in the peripheral blood of patients with long-standing Hashimoto's thyroiditis (120). While T cell immunization is conventionally recognized by a stimulatory effect of antigen, direct T cell cytotoxicity of thyroid cells has been recognized in a few studies. For example, Davies and co‑workers developed a CD8+ T cell clone which was cytotoxic to autologous TEC and was appropriately class I restricted (121). Another potential consequence of T lymphocytic adherence to thyroid cells is the stimulation of thyroid cell proliferation via ICAM-1/LFA-3 interaction, rather than their destruction, which could lead to goiter formation (122). Immune Complexes In addition to the antibody and T cell responses, circulating immune complexes are found in patients with autoimmune thyroid disease as would be anticipated], although their pathogenic importance appears minimal. In a certain sense this is most fortuitous. Since many individuals have circulating TG antibodies and antigen, if the immune complexes caused serious disease, it would be a catastrophe. Fortunately the immune complexes of TG and its antibody do not bind complement and do not cause serious illness such as immune-complex nephritis, except in rare instances (123, 124). Immune complexes, including complement terminal components, can however be recognized around the basement membrane of thyroid follicular cells (81) and may cause sublethal effects including release of proinflammatory mediators by TECs (125). K And Nk Cell Responses Many studies have been reported on natural killer (NK) cell activity and antibody dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC); their conclusions vary. Endo et al (126) found NK cells were decreased in Graves' disease and Hashimoto's thyroiditis, and presented evidence that this was due to saturation of their Fc receptors by immune
