Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


Endo et al (126) found NK cells were decreased in Graves' disease and Hashimoto's thyroiditis, and presented evidence that this was due to saturation of their Fc receptors by immune complexes. Normal NK effector function was found in Hashimoto's thyroiditis PBMC (127) in one study, although by phenotyping, decreased NK cells in Graves' disease, and increased NK cells in Hashimoto's thyroiditis were reported in another (128). ADCC of thyroid cells, mediated by normal PBMC, was induced by TPO antibody positive sera (129) but other, unknown antibody-antigen systems may also contribute (85). Effector cell activity in ADCC was increased in Hashimoto's thyroiditis and in post-partum thyroiditis, and thought to be related to thyroid cell destruction (130). Other data have indicted that ADCC may be more important in primary myxedema than Hashimoto’s thyroiditis explaining the difference in clinical presentation (131), but this has not been confirmed in studies showing equal ADCC activity in sera from both diseases (132). Cytokines Cytokines lie at the heart of the autoimmune response and can have a number of direct and indirect effects (Fig. 7-9). For example, IFN-g is produced in the thyroid by infiltrating lymphocytes and causes HLA class I expression on the surface of TECs to increase and initiates class II expression. It also has a direct inhibitory function on TEC iodination and TG synthesis (133, 134). Caveolin-1 and TPO form part of the apical thyroxisome, responsible for thyroid hormone synthesis. Recent studies have shown that Th1 cytokines down-regulate caveolin-1, leading to intracytoplasmic thyroxine synthesis and mislocalization of the thyroxisome. Disruption of the thyroxisome in this manner may then lead to damage by reactive oxygen metabolites and apoptosis in Hashimoto’s thyroiditis (135). Figure 7-9: Interactions between thyroid follicular cells and the immune system in autoimmune thyroid disease. Reproduced from Weetman AP, Ajjan R, Watson PF. Bailliere’s Clin Endocrinol Metab 11: 481-497, 1997 with permission. IFN-g is not essential for the development of AITD in mice but exacerbates disease activity (136). IL-2 can activate lymphocytes to produce IFN-g, and activate NK cells. TNF is produced by infiltrating macrophages and is potentially cytotoxic to TEC. TEC can produce several cytokines, including IL-1, which may activate T cells, IL-6, which stimulates T and B cells and IL-8, a chemokine which attracts inflammatory cells (reviewed in 134). More recently IL-14 (taxilin) and IL-16 production by TECs has been described: the former regulates B cell growth and the latter is
