Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


chemokine which attracts inflammatory cells (reviewed in 134). More recently IL-14 (taxilin) and IL-16 production by TECs has been described: the former regulates B cell growth and the latter is a chemoattractant for CD4+ cell (136a). Dendritic cells are important sources of IL-1b and IL-6 in the thyroid and can inhibit thyroid follicular cell growth (137). As an aside, plasmacytoid dendritic cell numbers are decreased in the blood in AITD, together with an alteration in their phenotype, but these cells increase in the thyroid gland, also suggesting that this cell type may be important in pathogenesis (138) IL-1a causes dissociation of junctional complexes between thyroid cells which could expose hidden autoantigens (139). An ever wider array of factors besides the classical cytokines has been implicated in the pathogenesis of AITD, including the finding that thyroid cells can release angiopoietin-1 and -2 (140). These ligands serve as a chemoattractant for monocytes and the angiopoietin receptor, Tie-2, is increased in monocytes form AITD patients, suggesting a role for monocytes in thyroid damage. Vascular endothelial growth factor expression is increased in AITD and is important in angiogenesis in autoimmune goiters (141). Cytokines also seem to play a major role in the pathogenesis of thyroid-associated ophthalmopathy through their stimulatory actions on orbital fibroblasts (142). Exogenous cytokines given therapeutically can also precipitate autoimmune thyroid disease, probably in predisposed individuals. The best described such reaction is α interferon used in hepatitis C and cancer therapy (90). Destructive thyroiditis accounts for the majority of thyroid dysfunction after treatment with this cytokine, and risks are highest in white women, whereas smoking is protective (91). SUMMARY To summarize, augmented pools of activated and resting T and B cells reactive to thyroid antigen exist in patients with AITD. The time course of development of these reactive cells, before clinical disease is apparent, has not been established. The cells respond to biochemically normal antigen, and some reactive cells exist in otherwise healthy individuals. Immune complex formation appears to be of limited importance in the disease process. K and NK activity may be reduced in Graves' disease and increased in Hashimoto's thyroiditis and may contribute to the course of the disease: proliferative in Graves' disease and destructive in Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Cytokines have multiple actions in the thyroid in AITD and are likely to determine clinical manifestations such as ophthalmopathy. The role of the TEC in the autoimmune response is not simply passive
