Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


multiple actions in the thyroid in AITD and are likely to determine clinical manifestations such as ophthalmopathy. The role of the TEC in the autoimmune response is not simply passive and, as discussed below, the interaction between TECs and cells of the classical immune system may be critical in determining the outcome of an initially mild thyroiditis. EXPERIMENTAL THYROIDITIS IN ANIMALS Chronic thyroiditis histologically identical to that in Hashimoto's thyroiditis occurs spontaneously in Obese strain (OS) chickens (143), beagles (144), mice, and rats. It can be induced in dogs (145), mice, rats, hamsters, guinea pigs, rabbits, monkeys (146), and baboons (147) by immunization with autologous or allogenic thyroid homogenate mixed with adjuvants, or by using heterologous TG , or TG that has been arsenylated or otherwise chemically modified. The need for modification of TG or adjuvant to break tolerance can also be overcome by immunization with cDNA (148). An important thyroiditogenic epitope includes a thyroxine residue (aa 2553) in human TG (149, 150) but the role of iodination at this site is unclear and may depend on the type of T cell assay system used, as well as other parameters (151). Mice have been the most frequently used model and have provided key insights into genetic susceptibility, pathogenesis and the development of Treg and autoreactive T cell repertoires (152). Induced thyroiditis leads to formation of humoral antibodies and T cell- mediated immunity. Usually the histologic pattern conforms to that of T cell-mediated immunity (153). The role of TG antibodies is unclear but likely to be minor. An idiotype-anti-idiotype network exists for TG antibodies in mice but the induction of those antibodies does not lead to thyroiditis (154). Furthermore, the intensity of the thyroiditis correlates better with T cell-mediated immunity than with antibody levels, and can be transferred by T cells but not antibodies, and both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells are usually needed for transfer (155). In normal mice, thyroiditis can be produced by immunization with mouse TG in adjuvant, and transferred to isogenic animals by sensitized Ly-1+ T cells. The same cells, given before immunization, vaccinate against the development of thyroiditis during subsequent immunization (156). However, a subpopulation of CD4+ T cells has an important regulatory role in tolerance to murine TG, keeping in check those TG-reactive T cells which escape thymic deletion and peripheral anergy-inducing mechanisms (157). Amelioration of thyroiditis by oral administration of TG (158) operates through
