Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


to murine TG, keeping in check those TG-reactive T cells which escape thymic deletion and peripheral anergy-inducing mechanisms (157). Amelioration of thyroiditis by oral administration of TG (158) operates through enhancing the activity of these regulatory T cells although other mechanisms are possible. More recent studies have emphasized the importance of regulatory T cells in suppression of thyroiditis in animals immunized with TG. In particular, semi-mature dendritic cells, which can be induced with granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor, can induce the function of TG-specific CD4 + , CD25 + T cells which can suppress thyroiditis through the production of IL-10 (159, 160). Another model has used homologous (murine) TPO in an immunization protocol and this method established thyroiditis and TPO antibody production although none of the immunized mice developed hypothyroidism (161). HLA-DRB1*0301 (DR3) transgenic mice have been created which are susceptible to thyroiditis induced by TG immunization, unlike DR2 transgenics, thus confirming that HLA-DRB1 polymorphism determines susceptibility to autoimmune thyroiditis, and his model has been extended to study of the immune response to TSH-R, with results again showing the importance of the DR3 specificity (162). However, when modeling has attempted to reproduce Graves’ disease by immunization of mice with adenovirus expressing the TSH-R, it is non-MHC genes which play a major role in controlling the development of hyperthyroidism (163). This concurs with the polygenic susceptibility and rather weak effect of HLA-DR3 in Graves’ disease. The DR3-transgenic model has also been used to show that dietary iodide enhances the development of thyroid disease and depletion of CD4+, CD25+ Tregs exacerbates this iodide-induced thyroiditis (193a) Spontaneous thyroiditis in OS chickens more closely resembles Hashimoto’s thyroiditis than the immunization models just discussed, particularly as the birds develop hypothyroidism as a consequence of the autoimmune process. Some evidence suggests that the thyroid of the newly hatched chick is intrinsically abnormal, since its function is partially non-suppressible by thyroid hormone and this constitutes an important element of the genetic susceptibility of these birds, together with genes controlling T cell responses and possibly glucocorticoid tonus. The MHC conversely has only a limited effect. Iodine plays a critical role in the induction of thyroid injury in OS chickens, most likely through the generation of reactive oxygen metabolites, and this injury is an early event, preceding lymphocytic infiltration (165). Iodination of TG is a second path by which iodine influences disease in OS chickens, as autoreactive T cells respond
