Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


this injury is an early event, preceding lymphocytic infiltration (165). Iodination of TG is a second path by which iodine influences disease in OS chickens, as autoreactive T cells respond to the antigen only if it is iodinated (166). Lymphocytic thyroiditis occurs spontaneously in the Buffalo and BB/W rat strains and the NOD (non-obese diabetic) mouse, especially the NOD.H-2h4 line (167). In both species, there are associated abnormalities in the animals' immune system. As in the OS chicken, administration of excess iodine augments the incidence of rat thyroiditis and iodine depletion reduces it (168). Iodine also enhances the susceptibility of NOD mice to thyroiditis, and further exploration of this model has demonstrated a key role for Th17 cells which accumulate within the thyroid (169). IL-17-deficient mice have a markedly reduced frequency of TG autoantibodies and thyroid lesions. Furthermore, selenium supplementation lowers serum TG antibody levels and decreases the prevalence of thyroiditis and the degree of infiltration of lymphocytes in iodine-treated NOD mice (169a). The susceptibility of NOD mice has also been exploited in a model in which the CCR7 gene was knocked out in this strain: such mice do not develop diabetes but do develop severe inflammation elsewhere including a severe thyroiditis with TG autoantibody formation and hypothyroidism (170). CCR7 is a chemokine receptor which is expressed by Tregs; the CC7-deficient mice had lower numbers of these cells. As well as this effect, it is possible that CCR7 deficiency impaired negative selection of thyroid reactive T cells. Another intriguing aspect of this model comes from long-term observations in NOD.H-2h4 mice which have shown that TG antibodies occur initially and much later TPO antibodies appear, suggesting that tolerance at the B cell and presumably T cell level is broken first for TG and then by spreading (see above) for TPO (171). These results suggest a more important role for TG as an autoantigen in AITD than it is currently assigned. When engineered through CD28 knockout to have a deficiency of Treg cells, NOD mice develop more severe thyroiditis than control animals, with thyroid fibrosis and hypothyroidism. Transferring healthy Treg cells reduces thyroiditis without increasing the total number of Treg cells, suggesting that endogenous Tregs in these mice are functionally defective (172). The iodine-accelerated thyroid autoimmunity which occurs in NOD.H2(h4) mice is associated with TG and TPO but not TSH-R autoantibodies However transgenic animals expressing the human TSH-R A-subunit develop pathogenic TSH-R
