Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


The iodine-accelerated thyroid autoimmunity which occurs in NOD.H2(h4) mice is associated with TG and TPO but not TSH-R autoantibodies However transgenic animals expressing the human TSH-R A-subunit develop pathogenic TSH-R antibodies which can be detected in standard bioassays, and this is especially the case in female animals (172a). These antibodies only weakly cross-react with the murine TSH-R and so do not cause hyperthyroidism. A third kind of model is produced by manipulation of T cells. The original description of thyroiditis in genetically susceptible rats by sublethal irradiation and thymectomy (173) has been followed by a number of more refined models in which T cell subsets can be perturbed more or less specifically to induce disease. For instance CD7/CD28 double-deficient mice have impaired Treg function and such animals develop spontaneous thyroiditis after 1 year of age (174). These experiments clearly demonstrate the recurrence of autoreactive T and B cells in normal animals and show that any of a number of factors which can perturb the regulation of these could result in autoimmune thyroiditis (Fig. 7-10). The most elegant model resulting from T cell manipulation is the generation of transgenic mice expressing a human T cell receptor specific for a TPO epitope, which resulted in a spontaneous destructive hypothyroidism and hypothyroidism (175). The CD8 T cells recognizing the epitope in these animals unconventionally were MHC class II rather than class I restricted and it is unclear whether this atypical behavior is significant to the creation of the model, nor is it yet clear what the mechanism is for thyroid cell destruction. Figure 7-10: Control of thyroid antigen-specific T cells in experimental autoimmune thyroiditis. Development of disease depends on the balance of these factors, and their sites of operation are shown as dotted lines. Reproduced from (255) with permission. Another intriguing model is one in which necrotic thyroid cells can induce maturation of dendritic cells in vitro, and when injected back into autologous mice EAT is induced, with a lymphocytic thyroiditis and TG-specific IgG (176). It is not clear whether this protocol yields cryptic TG epitopes which can break tolerance. It is possible that such work could be reversed therapeutically to allow attenuation of EAT by pulsing tolerogenic dendritic cells. Establishing an animal model of Graves’ disease has been surprisingly difficult despite the cloning of the TSH-R. Spontaneous models are not obvious, suggesting that critical differences in the TSH-R receptor between man and
