Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


model of Graves’ disease has been surprisingly difficult despite the cloning of the TSH-R. Spontaneous models are not obvious, suggesting that critical differences in the TSH-R receptor between man and other mammals (such as glycosylation) may be necessary to break tolerance (177). However, immunization of AKR/N mice (but not other strains sharing the same MHC haplotype) with murine fibroblasts doubly transfected with the human TSH-R and haploidentical MHC class II genes results in a syndrome similar to Graves’ disease except that thyroid lymphocytic infiltration was not induced (178), whereas thyroiditis is a feature of immunization with the TSH-R (179). This is a promising model although its exact physiological parallel remains unclear, particularly as fibroblasts may behave differently to TECs in terms of antigen presentation. This is because the fibroblasts used express the critical costimulatory molecule B7-1 and also because the procedure causes generalized in vivo immune activation. This model is therefore not evidence that thyroid follicular cells (which do not normally express B7) could initiate thyroid autoimmunity. More recent models include the use of transgenic mice expressing the A-subunit of the TSH-R, which develop lymphocytic infiltration of the thyroid, hypothyroidism and autoantibodies against TG and TPO as well as TSH-R following immunization with the TSH-R expressed in adenovirus and regulatory T cell depletion (180). Although obviously a contrived system, this model does clearly show that spreading of the immune response can occur to include the normal array of antibodies found in patients, and that this can result in a severe thyroiditis. Some of the difficulties in producing reliable animal models of Graves’ disease are seen in the disparity between hyperthyroidism in the animal and the presence of TSH-R antibodies detected by bioassays using human TSH-R. This may be the result of loci in the immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region contributing in a strain-specific manner to the development of antibodies specific for the human or the mouse TSH-R (181). This novel finding of a role for immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region genes in TSI specificity indicates a possible role for them genetic susceptibility to human Graves' disease. One unexpected finding has been the observation that mice with a TSH-R knockout do not differ in their response to immunization with TSH-R when compared to healthy animals, whereas the expectation was that such animals would have no tolerance to this autoantigen (as it had been absent throughout development) and therefore a greater immune
