Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


compared to healthy animals, whereas the expectation was that such animals would have no tolerance to this autoantigen (as it had been absent throughout development) and therefore a greater immune response would be predicted (182). This suggests that thymic (central) tolerance is not a critical step in self tolerance to this autoantigen. The same conclusions have been drawn from the finding of similar intrathymic transcript levels of thyroid autoantigens (TPO and TSH-R) in mice which are genetically susceptible or resistant to the development of EAT (183). However the situation may be more complex than originally imagined, as the same group has identified a role of the Aire gene in the response to TSH-R and in Aire -deficient mice, intrathymic transcripts of TSH-R and TG are reduced while the expression of TPO is nearly abolished (184). These results are compatible with the finding of an increase in AITD in autoimmune polyglandular syndrome type 1, but at a much lower frequency than the classical disorders of Addison’s disease and hypoparathyroidism. It is also intriguing that TPO transcripts are so much more affected in the Aire -deficient murine thymus, perhaps explaining (via more rigorous tolerance) the rather weak response to this autoantigen, compared to TG, in the mouse. Balb/c strain mice appeared to develop orbital changes suggestive of ophthalmopathy when given TSH-R primed T cells derived from donor mice immunized with TSH-R protein or cDNA but this model has not proved reproducible by the original authors, for reasons which are not yet clear, although complex histological artefacts may be part of the answer (185). A somewhat more convincing model of ophthalmopathy has been described recently in which deep injection of plasmid containing the TSH-R A subunit into the leg muscles of BALB/c mice followed by electroporation resulted in a wide variety of histological orbital changes and obvious eye signs (41). However the animals developed TSH-R blocking rather than stimulating antibodies and thyroiditis was absent. Nonetheless these finding support a pathogenic role for the TSH-R in the pathogenesis of thyroid eye disease. The clear general concept to be derived from all of these studies is that a genetically controlled balance of helper and suppressor T cell function is needed to prevent autoimmunity, and that a variety of perturbations can lead to onset of the disease. Relation of the Immune Response to THE Thyroid Cell: Stimulation and Destruction For certain we know that the autoantibodies
