Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


the CD8+ subset, can induce apoptosis in TECs expressing Fas (189). Fas is induced by IL-1b on TECs, whereas TSH-R stimulation inhibits Fas expression (190) and this may lead to the involvement of this pathway in Hashimoto’s thyroiditis but not Graves’ disease, as TSI would act like TSH in the latter to diminish Fas expression (and other regulatory molecules). It has been suggested that T cells may not be necessary, as Hashimoto TEC may express Fas ligand, and autocrine/paracrine interaction with Fas may lead to TEC death (191). The mechanisms for this are unclear and as yet there is no consensus on the role this may have in AITD. The picture is complicated by the upregulation of molecules which protect against apoptosis such as Bcl-2. The pattern of expression of this molecule is different in Graves’ and Hashimoto’s diseases, suggesting that TECs are protected in the former and more sensitive to destruction in the latter (192). Whether these differences depend on cytokines, genetics or other factors is unknown (193). Finally, T cell-derived cytokines can injure the TECs directly, leading to functional impairment (133-135), and by triggering other phlogistic pathways such as nitric oxide synthesis (194). Possible Explanations for Autoimmunity Many reasons for the development of autoimmunity have been advanced, and these are briefly catalogued below. Cross-reacting epitopes, aberrant T or B cell regulatory mechanisms, inheritance of specific immune response-related genes, and aberrant HLA-DR expression on TECs have all at some time been considered important for development and progression of thyroid autoimmunity. Abnormal presentation of antigen could occur due to cell destruction, or viral invasion, so that large amounts of antigen or cell fragments are liberated locally into the lymphatics. Excessive levels of antigen are produced, thereby overwhelming the usual low dose tolerance mechanism. 2. Abnormal antigen could be produced by a malignancy, or damage to the cell by viral attack, or other means. This antigen could be a partially degraded or denatured normal antigen, for example. 3. Cross-reacting bacterial or viral epitopes e.g. Yersinia enterocolitica (195) could induce immune responses that happen to cross-react with a self-antigen having identical conformation. An extension of this concept is that the normal anti-idiotypic control response happens to produce an Ig or T cell that cross-reacts with self-antigen. For example, experimentally produced anti-idiotypic monoclonal antibodies directed to TSH antibodies bind to and stimulate the TSH-R (196). 4. Somatic mutation of a TCR gene could
