Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


that cross-reacts with self-antigen. For example, experimentally produced anti-idiotypic monoclonal antibodies directed to TSH antibodies bind to and stimulate the TSH-R (196). 4. Somatic mutation of a TCR gene could lead to a clone of self-reactive cells. However, somatic mutation of TCR genes is believed to occur very rarely if at all, and such monoclonal or oligoclonal activation has not been documented in autoimmune disease. Somatic mutation of B cell Ig genes is, as described above, a normal phenomenon during an antigen‑driven proliferative response. Such an event could occur by chance during response to any antigen and this does not effectively introduce any new variable, since B cells capable of producing Igs that can react with self-antigens are already normally present. However, TSI seem to be clonally restricted and, until the V gene usage of these antibodies is documented, it remains possible that Graves’ disease is due to the inheritance of a unique, etiologically critical V gene encoding TSI. 5. Inheritance of specific HLA, TCR, or other genes that code for proteins having especially effective ability to process or present antigen. 6. T cell or B cell feedback control mechanisms could be aberrant due to hereditary or environmental factors. 7. Failure of clonal deletion could leave self-reactive T cells present in the adult. In fact this is clearly normal, as described above. 8. Failure of normal maturation of immune system could allow fetal T and B cells that are autoreactive and of wide specificity to persist. 9. Polyclonal activation of T or B cells, by some unknown stimulus, could lead to B cells producing self-reactive Ig, in the apparent absence of antigenic stimulus. This theory is in a sense impossible to disprove but would need to co-exist with other abnormalities to explain disease remission, genetic associations, associated diseases, etc. Polyclonal activation is not typical of peripheral lymphocytes of patients with AITD (197). 10. TECs could express MHC class II molecules as a primary event and then could function as APCs, including antigens on their cell surface. 11. Environmental factors could distort normal control. For example, stress or steroids may alter immunoregulation, and the potential role of dietary iodine has been mentioned above. Abnormal Exposure To Thyroid Antigens And The Effects Of Pregnancy Damage to the thyroid might release normally sequestered antigens, inducing an immune response. Damage to thyroid cells does indeed occur in viral thyroiditis, such as in association with
