Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


Of Pregnancy Damage to the thyroid might release normally sequestered antigens, inducing an immune response. Damage to thyroid cells does indeed occur in viral thyroiditis, such as in association with mumps or in subacute thyroiditis of unknown cause, but autoantibodies appear only transiently at low titer, and progressive lesions of the thyroid do not usually occur (reviewed in 198, 199). External irradiation to the thyroid, including that from nuclear fallout, can also lead to an increase in Graves' disease or thyroid antibody production (200, 201), but it is unclear if this is caused by autoantigen release or an effect on the lymphocytes which are radio-sensitive. Even occupational exposure to ionizing radiation appears to be a risk factor for the development of autoimmune thyroiditis (202). Another possible example where exposure to thyroid antigens released by gland injury leads to autoimmunity is the rare case of precipitation of Graves’ disease and ophthalmopathy after ethanol injection of thyroid nodules (203). A powerful argument against the hidden antigen hypothesis is that TG is a normal component of circulating plasma (204). One might turn the first argument around and suggest that thyroiditis results from a lack of exposure to TG at some period, an exposure that is necessary to depress continuously an otherwise inevitable immune response. This suggestion has no clinical or experimental support, and the available evidence indicates that TG is present in the plasma of patients with active immunity. It remains to be seen how sequestered TPO and TSH-R are, but the appearance of T cells capable of proliferating in response to these antigens, in apparently healthy individuals, also argues against any sequestration (205). What is clear is that availability of the thyroid autoantigen is essential to maintain the autoimmune response: complete removal of thyroid antigens following thyroidectomy and remnant ablation with radioiodine leads to disappearance of antibodies to TG, TPO and TSH-R (206). Although this is not surprising, it does suggest that extrathyroidal sources TSH-R are insufficient normally to maintain an autoimmune response. A variant on this theme is that of microchimerism, the persistence of fetal cells in maternal tissues. Studies have found evidence of microchimerism in thyroid tissue from patients with and without AITD (207, 208). Could such sequestered fetal material make the thyroid prone to an alloimmune response, and be responsible for the exacerbation of AITD seen in the postpartum period? If so, this phenomenon would help to explain the
