Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


make the thyroid prone to an alloimmune response, and be responsible for the exacerbation of AITD seen in the postpartum period? If so, this phenomenon would help to explain the high frequency of AITD in women. Twins from opposite sex pairs should have an increased risk of thyroid autoimmunity compared to monozygotic twins if microchimerism has a role, and indeed such twins have been found to have more frequent thyroid autoantibodies (209). However, although parity is associated with an 11% increase in the risk of all female-associated autoimmune disorders, there is no increase with multiple pregnancies, which rather argues against a microchimerism mechanism (210). During and after pregnancy, major changes in Treg function occur and direct effects on the cytokines produced by T cells can also be demonstrated (211). It is these alterations that are most probably the ultimate cause of the increase in autoimmunity after pregnancy. It seems likely that sex steroids play a role in determining the autoimmune response. For instance, in a recent study of an animal model of Graves’ disease, 5α-dihydrotestosterone was given to mice a week before immunization with TSH-R, and this reduced both the severity of the hyperthyroidism that developed and downregulated the Th1 response (211a). Another hypothetical reason for the unequal sex ratio is that skewed X chromosome inactivation could contribute through the failure of some autoantigens expressed on one X chromosome to be expressed at a critical point in the disease pathway. A recent survey of 309 patients with Graves’ disease and 490 with Hashimoto’s thyroiditis found skewed inactivation of the X chromosome in Graves’ disease (odds ratio 2.2) but not Hashimoto’s thyroiditis; when combined with 4 other studies in a meta-analysis, the results remained significant for Graves’ disease and reached significance for Hashimoto’s thyroiditis (odds ratio 2.4) (212). Abnormal Antigens An abnormal antigen might also serve to produce an immune reaction. The protein abnormality could be either congenital or acquired by an injury such as a virus infection. To date there is no evidence which indicates that TG, TPO, or other proteins of the thyroid of a patient with autoimmunity are abnormal. Minor allelic differences apparently do occur but attempts to associate thyroid disease with polymorphisms of the TPO and TSH-R genes have been unsuccessful. Cross-Reacting Antigens The theory that immune reactivity to an environmental antigen could lead to antibodies that cross‑react with thyroid antigens has been bolstered by studies which
