Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


genes have been unsuccessful. Cross-Reacting Antigens The theory that immune reactivity to an environmental antigen could lead to antibodies that cross‑react with thyroid antigens has been bolstered by studies which show a relationship between Graves' disease and antibodies to the common enteropathogen Yersinia enterocolitica . An increased incidence of antibodies to Yersinia is found by some, but not all authors, in patients who have Graves' disease, and there are saturable binding sites for TSH on Yersinia proteins (213). After infection by Yersinia , human sera contain Igs that bind to TEC cytoplasm (195), and IgGs which appear to compete with TSH for binding to thyroid membrane TSH receptors (214). The antigens involved may in fact include proteins encoded by plasmids present in the Yersinia , rather than intrinsic Yersinia proteins, but that does not alter the general concept (215). Arguing strongly against a role for Yersinia is the fact that there is no unique pattern of serological immunoreactivity to Yersinia antigens in patients with AITD (216), and most patients with this infection do not develop Graves’ disease. Moreover, there was no association between Yersinia infection and autoimmune thyroid disease in a large prospective study of individuals developing AITD (217). In theory an initial response to one antigen might proceed by reacting to the other antigen, and thereby spread and augment the autoimmune process. In the context of T cell autoreactivity there is much greater scope for molecular mimicry whereby a response to an exogenous epitope leads to a cross-reactive response to an endogenous autoantigenic epitope. Simple sequence homology is insufficient to predict this, as shown elegantly by the cross-reactivity of two TPO epitopes showing a similar surface but not amino acid sequence (218). This makes the prediction and study of molecular mimicry much more difficult than is generally appreciated (219). For these reasons, it may be naïve to believe that the putative orbital antigen responsible for ophthalmopathy has to be an identical protein to that expressed in the thyroid. Virus Infection Virus infection has for years been speculated to be an etiological factor in most autoimmune diseases, by causing cell destruction and liberating antigens, by forming altered antigens or causing molecular mimicry, by inducing DR expression, or by inducing CD8+ T cell responses to viral antigens expressed on the cell surface. Thyroid autoantibodies are elevated transiently after subacute thyroiditis, which is thought to be a virus-associated syndrome, but no clear
