Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


T cell responses to viral antigens expressed on the cell surface. Thyroid autoantibodies are elevated transiently after subacute thyroiditis, which is thought to be a virus-associated syndrome, but no clear evidence of virus-induced autoimmune thyroiditis in humans has been presented. In this regard it is of interest that persistent, apparently benign virus infection of the thyroid can be induced in mice (220), and that infection of neonatal mice with reo virus induces a polyendocrine autoimmunity (Fig. 7-11). These agents could work by liberating thyroid antigens. Virus infection might also augment autoimmunity by causing non-specific secretion of IL-2, or by inducing MHC class II expression on TEC. Despite many attempts to implicate retroviruses in AITD, results to date remain inconclusive (221). Human T lymphotrophic virus-1 has been repeatedly associated with various autoimmune disorders, including Hashimoto’s thyroiditis; presumably the virus alters immunoregulatory pathways allowing autoimmunity to emerge (222). Figure 7-11: Autoantibodies to thyroid in sera of reovirus-infected mice detected by indirect immunofluorescence. (a) Frozen section of normal mouse thyroid incubated with sera obtained from mice 21 days after infection, showing staining of colloid characteristic of antithyroglobulin antibody (original magnification, X200). (b) Section of normal mouse thyroid (fixed in Bouin's solution) incubated with sera obtained from mice 21 days after infection, showing staining of thyroid acinar cells (original magnification, X 200). Reproduced with permission from I. Okayasu and S. Hatokeyama, Clin. Immunol. Immunopath., 31:334, 1984. Lymphocyte Mutation And Oligoclonality Apart from the evidence that some TSI may have an oligoclonal origin (67, 223), there is no evidence to support a clonal B cell abnormality in AITD. V gene usage by TSI will need to be analyzed to determine whether Graves’ disease has a unique pathogenesis determined by germ-line immunoglobulin genes. Thyroid-reactive T cells are present in healthy animals and man, as noted above, and therefore a defect at the clonal T cell level is less likely as a primary event in etiology than previously thought. A few autoreactive T cells can be expected to escape tolerance normally, particularly if the autoantigen in question is not available to delete T cells in thymus during fetal development. Stochastic events later in life affecting such undeleted T cells could readily explain the lack of complete concordance for AITD in genetically identical twins (224), and this lack of such concordance argues against an inherited pathogenic TCR as a primary event in AITD. Genetic Predisposition A role of
