Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


for AITD in genetically identical twins (224), and this lack of such concordance argues against an inherited pathogenic TCR as a primary event in AITD. Genetic Predisposition A role of heredity in AITD is clearly demonstrated by family studies (225, 226). The role of heredity in AITD is clear, since there is an increased frequency of AITD among family members, first degree relatives, and twins of patients with the illness (227). Indeed a detailed analysis of concordance in Danish twins with Graves’ disease came up with the estimate that 79% of the liability for this disorder was attributable to genetic factors (228). Another strand of evidence is the variation of disease with race, although of course this is complicated by environmental influences too. Analyzing military personnel in the USA, it has been shown that HT is more frequent in white individuals, and lowest in black and Asian/Pacific Islander individuals (229). Despite some shared genetic susceptibility factors (see below), in Graves’ disease the opposite is true. It is unknown why these ethnic differences occur and this is clearly an area that could be fruitfully explored further. In an investigation of the relatives of a group of propositi with high circulating antibody levels and clinical thyroid disease, approximately half of the siblings and parents (first‑order relatives) were found to have significant titers of thyroid antibodies, many being without clinical thyroid disease (230) but the transmission of thyroid autoantibodies is a more complex trait than the dominant inheritance originally thought (231, 232). Together, such observations suggest that these diseases have a common genetic defect, although other genes are likely to be disease-specific in their effects, as reviewed extensively elsewhere (233). The most important susceptibility factor so far recognized is the inheritance of certain MHC class II genes. Inheritance of HLA-DR3 causes a 2 to 6-fold increased risk for the occurrence of Graves' disease or autoimmune thyroiditis in Caucasians, and inheritance of HLA-DR4 and DR5 has been found in some studies to increase the incidence of goitrous hypothyroidism (234). In post-partum painless thyroiditis an association with HLA-DR5 has been reported (235). HLA-DQA1*0501, which is often linked to DR3, may have an even more pronounced predisposing effect in Caucasians with Graves’ disease (236), whereas HLA-DRB1*07 may be protective (227). A large series of 991 Japanese patients with AITD has been studied and the HLA susceptibility to Graves’ disease differentiated from that to Hashimoto’s thyroiditis, while
