Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


may be protective (227). A large series of 991 Japanese patients with AITD has been studied and the HLA susceptibility to Graves’ disease differentiated from that to Hashimoto’s thyroiditis, while 3 common haplotypes were identified which conferred protection against Graves’ disease; one of these acted epistatically with the HLA-DP5 susceptibility molecule and another also conferred protection to Hashimoto’s thyroiditis (238). It is noteworthy also that the relative risks conferred by HLA alleles is rather modest, borne out by the relatively low concordance for Graves’ disease in HLA-identical siblings of patients with Graves’ disease (239). This suggests the operation of other genetic susceptibility loci, also emphasized by the weak lod scores for linkage with the HLA region in family studies of AITD (240, 241). The nature of these other loci is unclear and their identification is likely to require an extensive analysis involving thousands of families in studies using modern molecular techniques. Association studies have been the method of choice until recently, investigating various candidate genes, but with mixed success. Inconclusive results have been reported for associations of AITD with TCR polymorphisms, immunoglobulin allotype and TSH-R polymorphisms. The most consistent non-HLA association is between polymorphisms in the CTLA-4 gene and both Graves’ disease and Hashimoto’s thyroiditis (242, 243). Despite claims to the contrary, there appears to be no additional risk conferred by CTLA-4 (or HLA) polymorphisms in Graves’ patients with clinical evidence of ophthalmopathy (244), but these CTLA-4 polymorphisms may partially determine outcome after antithyroid drug (245, 246). Given the most important role of the interaction between CTLA-4 on T cells and the B7 family of molecules on APCs, it is possible that this association represents a genetic effect on immunoregulation, although, as with HLA-DR3, this is not specific for thyroid autoimmunity; the same polymorphism is also associated with type I diabetes mellitus and several other autoimmune disorders. Fine mapping of the CTLA-4 region has confirmed that it is indeed this gene, rather than those in linkage disequilibrium, which is responsible for the associations, and the polymorphisms may exert their effects by causing variation in levels of soluble CTLA-4, which in turn may after T cell activation, especially in Treg cells (247). Polymorphism of the vitamin D receptor has been linked with Graves’ disease, an association which has some biological plausibility as vitamin D has immunological effects (248). However a large survey comprising 768 patients with Graves’ disease from the UK,
