Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


with Graves’ disease, an association which has some biological plausibility as vitamin D has immunological effects (248). However a large survey comprising 768 patients with Graves’ disease from the UK, compared to 864 controls, found no evidence of an association (249) and there is not yet any prospective evidence yet for vitamin D deficiency being associated with AITD (250). Polymorphisms in genes encoding molecules involved the NFkB inhibitor pathway modulating B cell function ( FCRL3 and MAP3K7IP2 ) are more likely to be involved in susceptibility to Graves’ disease (251, 252). Another genetic susceptibility locus in Graves’ disease is polymorphism in the lymphoid tyrosine phosphatase LYP/PTPN22 gene, which has been associated with functional changes in T cell receptor signaling. A study of 549 patients and 429 controls found that a codon 620 tryptophan allele conferred an odds ratio of 1.88 (253), although it should be noted that similar effects have been seen in many other autoimmune diseases. This result has recently been confirmed (254) and another likely locus is the IL-2 receptor alpha (CD25) gene region, which is also associated with other autoimmune diseases like type diabetes (255). As well as genes controlling the immune response, genes that control the target organ susceptibility to autoimmunity are logical candidates for investigation. There is to be conclusive proof from both linkage disequilibrium and association studies, that polymorphisms in the TSH-R gene confer susceptibility to Graves’ disease but not autoimmune hypothyroidism (256, 257). This is one of the few susceptibility factors that segregates with one rather than both types of thyroid autoimmunity, although polymorphisms in the PDE10A and MAF genes (which have many actions, including immune regulation) may also influence whether patients develop Graves' disease or Hashimoto's disease (257a). Although not thyroid-specific in tissue location, selenoproteins (SEP) are central to thyroid hormone deiodination and a significant association of HT with SNP in SEPS1 (odds ratio 2.2) has been reported in a series of 481 Portuguese HT patients (258). A different approach to chasing candidate genes has been genome scanning, although huge effort is required to undertake such studies. Based largely on this approach, other loci which may be important have been identified on chromosomes 14q31, 20q11 and Xq21 (241, 259), and the importance of a gene on the X chromosome is supported by the increased frequency of AITD in women with Turners syndrome, especially those with an isochromosome-X karyotype (260). However in a
