Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


of a gene on the X chromosome is supported by the increased frequency of AITD in women with Turners syndrome, especially those with an isochromosome-X karyotype (260). However in a genome scan involving 1119 relative pairs, there was no replication of these findings (261). A more impressive genome wide scan of thousands of individuals with Graves’ disease confirmed susceptibility loci in the major histocompatibility complex, TSHR, CTLA4 and FCRL3 and identified two new loci; the RNASET2-FGFR1OP-CCR6 region at 6q27 and an intergenic region at 4p14 (262). Seven new loci for AITD, including MMEL1, LPP, BACH2 , FGFR1OP and PRICKLE1 , have been uncovered by using a custom made SNP array across 186 susceptibility loci known for immune-mediated diseases (263). In another study of almost 10000 Chinese patients with Graves’ disease, five additional novel loci were identified and polymorphism in the TG gene was also confirmed to be associated with Graves’ disease (264). Thus the genetic factors involved in AITD are increasingly more complex and their interactions with each other and with environmental factors in disease pathogenesis will be a major task to uncover. Further developments in genetic analysis will no doubt bring even greater complexity to this area, albeit with the prospect of better defining patient subsets (265). It is now clear that to detect common, low-risk variants with reliability, huge sample sizes are essential facilitated by the haplotypic data available from the HapMap project, which means that genome wide variability can be detected using half a million single nucleotide polymorphisms (266). These studies present considerable logistical challenges, and many older studies of genetic associations in AITD have produced conflicting results as because of lack of power or population stratification issues. However a good example of the utility of such studies is a massive genome-wide association study in which a new set of SNPs, which includes polymorphism in MAGI3 , has been associated with an increased risk of progression from TPO antibody positivity without hypothyroidism to the development of hypothyroidism (267). As an aside, it should be noted that low birth weight, a known risk factor for several chronic disorders, has not associated with clinically overt thyroid disease or with the production of thyroid autoantibodies in one study (268) but others have come to an opposite conclusion, with prematurity irrespective of birth size being another risk factor (269, 270). Co-Occurrence Of Autoimmune Diseases The co-existence of AITD and other diseases
