Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


others have come to an opposite conclusion, with prematurity irrespective of birth size being another risk factor (269, 270). Co-Occurrence Of Autoimmune Diseases The co-existence of AITD and other diseases possibly of autoimmune cause has often been reported, and suggests some intrinsic abnormality in immune regulation. An extensive review of these associations has been published (271) and extensive population data bases have clarified the strength of the various associations (272). A striking association is with pernicious anemia. Perhaps 45% of patients with autoimmune thyroiditis have circulating gastric parietal cell antibodies (273), and the reverse association is almost as strong (274). Up to 14% of patients with pernicious anemia have primary myxedema, and pernicious anemia is increased in prevalence in patients with hypothyroidism (275). Another strong association is with celiac disease, which is found 3 times more commonly in patients with AITD. Intriguingly the autoantibodies which are the hallmark of celiac disease, directed against transglutaminase, can bind to thyroid cells and thus could be implicated directly in thyroid disease pathogenesis (276). The association of Sjögren's syndrome and thyroiditis is not uncommon and both systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and rheumatoid arthritis are also significantly associated with AITD (277, 278). A high frequency of antibodies to nucleus, smooth muscle, and single-stranded DNA (26-36%) is found in AITD (279). Although multiple sclerosis has stood out as a putative autoimmune disease which is not obviously associated with AITD, meta-analysis has revealed there is an odds ratio of 1.7 for AITD in these patients (280). Autoimmune Addison's disease and/or type I diabetes mellitus and AITD occasionally co-exist and this forms the autoimmune polyglandular syndrome (APS) type 2 (281). This is an autosomal dominant disorder with incomplete penetrance and is often associated with other disorders, such as vitiligo, celiac disease, myasthenia gravis, premature ovarian failure and chronic active hepatitis (282, 283). AITD is an infrequent feature of the much rarer APS type I (284) and there is no association between mutations in the AIRE gene, which causes APS type I, and sporadic AITD (285). Together these data provide convincing proof of an association of other autoimmune phenomena with AITD. Most typically, this immunity is organ specific, but in one subset of patients, thyroid autoimmunity develops in association with the non-organic-specific collagen diseases. A syndrome of running together, of course, does not prove a causal association. Nevertheless, the plethora of associations and their familial occurrence indicates that a
