Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


with the non-organic-specific collagen diseases. A syndrome of running together, of course, does not prove a causal association. Nevertheless, the plethora of associations and their familial occurrence indicates that a defect in the immune system may be more likely than primary defects in each organ. This in turn suggests a shared immunoregulatory defect, which is at least partly genetically determined, as these diseases often share similar genetic associations, including HLA, CTLA-4 , PTPN22 and CD25 gene polymorphisms. Recently, analysis of HLA molecules has shown a pocket amino acid signature, DRβ-Tyr-26, DRβ-Leu-67, DRβ-Lys-71, and DRβ-Arg-74, that was strongly associated with type 1 diabetes and AITD (286). This could confer joint susceptibility to these diseases in the same individual by causing significant structural changes in the MHC II peptide binding pocket and influencing peptide binding and presentation. It is also clear however that there is a difference in the kind of clustering of other autoimmune disease in Hashimoto’s thyroiditis and Graves’ disease, presumably related to differences between these two types of thyroid disease in genetic predisposition (287). Immunoregulation: Phenomena And Mechanisms Possible abnormalities in immunoregulation have been addressed in hundreds of studies. The basic hypothesis of this work is that a deficiency of functional T suppressor cells, now termed regulatory cells, may allow uncontrolled T and B cell immune responses to thyroid (or other) antigens. As noted above, this concept is a major theme in experimentally induced or naturally occurring thyroiditis in animal models. Most of the studies to define immunoregulatory responses in AITD have relied on phenotyping (which may relate poorly to effector function in vivo) or in vitro assays done in unique conditions; as we have previously noted, T cell antigen expression and function can vary depending on source of cells, stage of disease, the use of any stimulating agent in vitro, culture conditions, etc. Sridama and DeGroot found decreased suppressor cells, defined as CD8+ peripheral blood T cells in patients with Graves' disease (288, 289). These results have been challenged, and some investigators have reported depression of CD4+ cells in AITD (290). However, overall, there is now agreement that, in thyrotoxic patients with Graves' disease, a decrease in CD8+ T cell number (291, 292) is characteristically present, and that a similar abnormality exists in the thyroid. CD8+ cells return gradually toward normal during therapy, and are usually but not always normal at the end of therapy (292) (Fig. 7-12).
