Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


a similar abnormality exists in the thyroid. CD8+ cells return gradually toward normal during therapy, and are usually but not always normal at the end of therapy (292) (Fig. 7-12). The phenomenon is present but less evident in Hashimoto's thyroiditis patients. It has been attributed by some workers to increased thyroid hormone levels (293), although this issue is clouded, since there are reports disproving the idea that hyperthyroidism per se induces suppressor cell abnormalities in humans, and reduced suppressor T cells (Ts) are found present long after thyrotoxicosis is cured (294). Our interpretation is that the abnormality is not due specifically to excess T4 in blood, but is a manifestation of ongoing active autoimmunity, for reasons which are unclear. Reduced nonspecific "suppressor" T cell function may be in part an inherited abnormality, and is probably also a manifestation of the augmented immune reactivity ongoing in AITD patients. It may be largely a secondary phenomenon, but one which augments and continues the immunological disease. The mechanism causing such reduced Ts number and function is unclear. Figure 7-12: Influence of a 6 month course of carbimazole on peripheral blood T cell subsets of 29 patients with hyperthyroid Graves' disease (Mean SD). OKT4 = CD4+ OKT3 = CD3+ OKT8 = CD8+ ** = p < .001 vs. zero time value (From Reference 265) These older findings need to be related to recent developments in understanding Treg function. One study has found that despite increased numbers of CD4+ T cells bearing the T regulatory cell markers CD25, Foxp3, GITR and CD69, in both thyroid and PBMC of patients with AITD, there is a non-specific defect in regulatory function in vitro, which in turn must explain somehow why the increased number of regulatory T cells are so patently ineffective (295). For example there is an increase in circulating CD69 + regulatory lymphocytes in AITD, and numbers are even higher in the thyroid glands of these patients and yet they are functionally deficient in vitro (295a). The existence of a functional rather than numerical deficiency in regulatory T cells has also been suggested in a study of AITD patients, in which the defect was found to be detectable only when optimal in vitro conditions were achieved (296). Analysis in the earliest phases of disease may of course yield different results and unlocking how T regulatory cells can be activated seems an obvious but at present unrealizable
