Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


(296). Analysis in the earliest phases of disease may of course yield different results and unlocking how T regulatory cells can be activated seems an obvious but at present unrealizable therapeutic strategy. The finding that many thyroid infiltrating lymphocytes, early on in the disease process, are in fact recent thymic emigrants does suggest that there is a problem with central tolerance that allows autoreactive T cells to accumulate in the gland where the strength of local immunoregulation could be critical in determining whether disease progresses (297). Thyrotoxic Graves' disease patients and those with active Hashimoto's thyroiditis have a high proportion of DR+ T cells in their peripheral circulation (291, 298), which indicates the presence of activated T cells. It is unlikely that these cells (> 20% of circulating T cells) are all responsive related to thyroid antigens, so they must include DR+ T cells with TCRs for many other antigens. There is also a marked increase in circulating soluble IL-2 receptors in thyrotoxic Graves' disease, but this appears to be typical of thyrotoxicosis per se, and not specifically Graves' disease (299). Nevertheless, there is no evidence for a generalized ongoing immune hyper-responsiveness in thyrotoxic patients. Perhaps these T cells (for many different specificities) are stimulated by IL-2, but in the absence of the required second signal provided by antigen exposure, do not induce B cell proliferation or cytotoxic responses. Diminished, non-specific suppressor cell function is also observed in many autoimmune diseases including lupus, and multiple sclerosis and the results in AITD are equally non-specific. The most likely explanation for many “suppressor” phenomena is the reciprocal inhibition of Th1 and Th2 cells by their cytokine products, and powerful evidence shows how important this regulatory mechanism is in exacerbating or inhibiting autoimmune disease, at least in animal models. However regulatory phenomena utilizing cytokines are much more complex, and include both Th17 cells and invariant NKT (iNKT) cells. The latter share receptors with T and NK cells, with the α chain of the T cell receptor being invariant gene segment-encoded, and are notable for releasing cytokines when stimulated by antigen, thus endowing them with regulatory properties which may be either stimulatory or inhibitory. Recently iNKT cell lines have been identified that can be stimulated with TG to induce EAT (300). In keeping with the importance of the Th17 subset in inflammatory autoimmune diseases discussed earlier, there is an increased differentiation of circulating Th17
