Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


stimulated with TG to induce EAT (300). In keeping with the importance of the Th17 subset in inflammatory autoimmune diseases discussed earlier, there is an increased differentiation of circulating Th17 lymphocytes and an enhanced synthesis of Th17 cytokines in AITD, mainly in those patients with Hashimoto thyroiditis (301). Nonetheless a recent study has found an increase in both Th22 and Th17 cells and the levels of plasma IL-22 and IL-17 in patients with Graves’ disease; the magnitude of these increases correlated TSH-R antibody levels (302). Circulating platelet-derived microvesicles are significantly raised in AITD patients and these can inhibit the differentiation of Foxp3+ Treg cells and induce differentiation of Th17 cells (302a). Another newly recognized T cell subset involved in the regulation of antibody production, comprising follicular helper T cells, is increased in the circulation of patients with AITD and correlates with autoantibody levels (303). Many studies have examined T cell subsets in thyroid tissue of patients with active AITD. For example, Margolick et al (304) found increased CD8+ cytotoxic/suppressor cells and also increased CD4+ T helper cells, and a normal Th/Ts ratio. Canonica et al (305) found increased proportions of cytotoxic/suppressor T cells in thyroids of Hashimoto's thyroiditis patients. Infiltrating cytotoxic/suppressor cells in Hashimoto's thyroiditis were found usually to be activated and to express DR antigen, whereas this response was not so obvious in Graves' disease (306). Canonica et al (305) reported an increased proportion of activated T helper/inducer cells in both Graves' disease and Hashimoto's thyroiditis, and increased cells thought to represent cytotoxic T cells in Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Chemokine expression within the thyroid is likely to be an important determinant of this infiltration (307). Increased CD8+CD11B- cells, presumed to be cytotoxic cells, were found in Graves' disease thyroids (in comparison to PBMC of Graves' disease or normal subjects), whereas "dull" CD8+CD11B+ natural killer cells were diminished (308). Other studies have suggested a reduction in NK cells in Graves' disease and an increase in Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Tezuka et al found decreased NK cells in Graves' disease thyroid tissue, no differences in the NK activity of PBMC between Graves' and normal patients, and that the NK cells in Graves' disease did not kill autologous thyroid epithelial cells (309). We have already indicated other reports of normal NK and ADCC in Hashimoto's PBMC, and of increased ADCC in Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Most studies that have looked at Graves' disease tissues also indicate an
