Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


indicated other reports of normal NK and ADCC in Hashimoto's PBMC, and of increased ADCC in Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Most studies that have looked at Graves' disease tissues also indicate an increased proportion of B cells compared to peripheral blood subsets. Cell cloning has also been used to examine thyroid and peripheral blood lymphocyte subsets. Bagnasco et al (310) found a predominance of cytolytic clones, releasing IFN-g, in Hashimoto's thyroiditis but not in Graves' disease. Del Prete et al (311) found a high proportion of cytolytic cells with the CD8+ phenotype in clones from thyroid tissue, and felt these results may relate to autoimmune destruction of TEC but the non-specific methods used to derive such cytotoxic T cells raises questions about any pathophysiological relevance. There is no clear predominance of Th1 or Th2 cytokines in the thyroid of patients with Graves’ disease or Hashimoto’s thyroiditis (312), although Th1 clones seem to predominate in the retrobulbar tissues in ophthalmopathy (313). It might simplistically be thought that Graves’ disease represents a Th2 response, but the fact that some patients end up with hypothyroidism itself indicates the likely presence of a Th1 response too. This is supported by evidence from an animal model of Graves’ disease: immune deviation away from a Th1 response, in g-IFN knockout mice, did not enhance the response to TSH-R cDNA vaccination (314). One situation in which it is likely that perturbation the cytokine milieu is responsible for the emergence of Graves’ disease is during reconstitution of the immune system following lymphopenia induced by alemtuzumab treatment for multiple sclerosis, bone marrow or stem cell transplantation or after highly active antiretroviral therapy for HIV infection (315, 316). In these situations there is an initial increase in the Th1 response flowed by a Th2 response at the time when Graves’ disease becomes apparent. Defects in T regulatory cells may also contribute. A general summary of these data is difficult. The results probably at least indicate there are increased B cells, increased DR+ T cells, increased CD4+DR+ T helper cells, decreased CD8+DR+ T suppressor/cytotoxic cells, and possibly lower NK cells in Graves' disease AITD tissue and in blood than among normal subjects' PBMCs. The intrathyroidal T cells are a mix of Th1 and Th2. Such studies have been performed primarily on patients with well developed and often treated disease, and do not bear directly on early stages of the disease, or on whether
