Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


Th2. Such studies have been performed primarily on patients with well developed and often treated disease, and do not bear directly on early stages of the disease, or on whether the changes represent primary or secondary phenomena. To date there has been no certain indication that a non-specific or specific suppressor cell defect exists in patients who are genetically predisposed to have AITD, or in most patients who have recovered from the illness, although observations on Treg and other recently defined T cell subsets appear to indicate defects that are likely to be causal. Anti-Idiotype Antibodies Whereas anti-idiotypic antibodies are thought to play a physiological role in immunoregulation, there is little evidence for participation in, or abnormality of, this function in AITD. Immunoglobulins from some patients with Graves' disease bind TSH (317). This suggests that anti-idiotypes to TSH antibodies are present and might theoretically function as thyroid stimulating immunoglobulins; or conversely that anti-idiotypes to thyroid stimulating antibody exist and can bind TSH. Either possibility remains to be confirmed. Sikorska (318) demonstrated the presence of antibodies in sera of AITD patients which inhibit binding of TG to monoclonal TG antibodies, and interpreted these as anti-idiotypes. We have looked for anti-TG anti-idiotypes in patients with autoimmune thyroid disease and failed to find them (319). On the other hand, weak anti-idiotypes of the IgM class have been found which bind to TPO antibodies and are present in pooled normal immunoglobulins as well as certain patient sera (320). Although one could postulate that a failure to produce anti-idiotype antibodies could be a feature of AITD, a more likely hypothesis is that anti-idiotypic antibodies are simply rarely produced at a detectable level. Since anti-idiotype antibodies raised in animals will suppress in vitro TG antibody production, the theory that lack of anti-idiotype control is causal in AITD remains attractive, but data to support it are scant. De Novo Expression Of Class Ii Antigens On Thyroid Cells De novo expression of HLA-DR on thyroid epithelial cells, from patients with Graves' disease, was first reported by Hanafusa et al (321) and was proposed as the cause of autoimmunity by Bottazzo et al. (322) who suggested that de novo expression of MHC class II molecules on these cells, which are normally negative, allows them to function as APCs. Lymphocyte-produced IFN-g augments the expression of HLA-DR (also DP and DQ) on thyroid epithelial cells, and that TNF-a further increases the
