Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


are normally negative, allows them to function as APCs. Lymphocyte-produced IFN-g augments the expression of HLA-DR (also DP and DQ) on thyroid epithelial cells, and that TNF-a further increases the induction caused by IFN-g (323, 324). HLA-DR+ TECs definitely can stimulate T cells (325, 326) but this is critically dependent on the requirements of the T cell for a costimulatory signal, as Graves’ TECs do not express B7-1 or B7-2 (327, 328). In contrast B7.1 expression on Hashimoto TEC has been recorded, but how this is differentially regulated, compared to Graves’ disease, is unknown (329). We have shown that TECs can present antigen to T cell clones which no longer require costimulation through B7, yet not only fail to stimulate B7-dependent T cells but also induce anergy in these cells by at least two mechanisms, one of which is Fas-dependent (330, 331). Perhaps the most conclusive proof that class II expression by thyroid cells cannot induce thyroiditis comes from the creation of transgenic mice expressing such molecules on TECs – such animals have no thyroiditis and have normal thyroid functionm (332). For reasons which remain unclear, thyroid follicular and papillary cancers may express B7.1 and B7.2, and B7.2 expression is associated with an unfavourable prognosis (333). HLA-DR is also expressed on TECs in multinodular goiter and in many benign and malignant thyroid tumors, and this does not appear to induce thyroid autoimmunity (334). Aberrant DR expression has not been shown to develop before autoimmunity. Normal animal thyroids not expressing class II molecules can become the focus of induced thyroiditis, and then express class II molecules (335). Furthermore, HLA-DR expression on Graves' disease thyroid tissue is lost when tissue is transplanted to nude mice (336). Thus a consensus position is that class II expression could be important, but is a secondary phenomenon in AITD, dependent on the T cell-derived cytokine, g-IFN, and only allowing TECs to become APCs for T cells which have already received B7-dependent costimulation elsewhere. This could clearly exacerbate AITD once initiated, but teleologically the role of class II expression seems to be as a peripheral tolerance mechanism, allowing the induction of anergy in potentially autoreactive but still naive (ie. B7-dependent) T cells (Fig. 7-13). The recent description of hyperinducibility of HLA class II expression by TECs from Graves’ disease suggests that such patients may be genetically predisposed to display a more vigorous local class II response and
