Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


of hyperinducibility of HLA class II expression by TECs from Graves’ disease suggests that such patients may be genetically predisposed to display a more vigorous local class II response and this would increase the likelihood of disease progression (337). The genes controlling this response are therefore worthwhile candidates for future studies of genetic susceptibility. Figure 7-13: Alternative outcomes of MHC class II expression by thyroid follicular cells. Reproduced from Weetman (1997) New Aspects of Thyroid Autoimmunity. Hormone Research 48 (Suppl 4), 5154 with permission. ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS Environmental factors include viral and other infections, discussed above. Strong evidence for an important role for environmental factors is provided by the incomplete concordance seen in the monozygotic twins or other siblings of individuals with AITD. Also, there are temporal changes in disease incidence that can only be the result of environmental influences, such as the rise in Graves’ disease in children in Hong Kong, the steady rise in autoimmune thyroid disease in Calabria, Italy, the more than two-fold increase in lymphocytic thyroiditis over 31 years in Austria, and the changes in the rates of histologically diagnosed Hashimoto’s thyroiditis over a 124 year period (338, 339, 340, 341). Such studies also show that environmental factors may change rapidly, making their ascertainment difficult and challenging. Epidemiological studies have also shown that there is a higher prevalence of thyroid autoimmunity in children raised in environments that have higher prosperity and standards of hygiene (342). This falls in line with the so-called hygiene hypothesis, that is, the idea that early exposure to infections may skew the immune system away from Th2 responses like allergy and also away from autoimmunity. IL-2 administration for treatment of cancer leads to the production of antithyroid antibodies, and hypothyroidism (and possibly a better tumor response) (343). IFN-a administration and other cytokines (91), as well as highly active antiretroviral therapy for HIV infection (344), have a similar effect, although interferon-b1b treatment has no significant adverse effect on AITD (345). However long-term follow up studies have shown that around a quarter of multiple sclerosis patients treated with this latter cytokine may develop autoimmune thyroid disease within the first year of treatment (346). It remains unclear how relevant any lessons from these observations are for AITD pathogenesis, as of course the doses of cytokines and drugs used therapeutically are vast. However, it has been reported that thyrotoxicosis tends to recur following attacks of allergic rhinitis
