Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


AITD pathogenesis, as of course the doses of cytokines and drugs used therapeutically are vast. However, it has been reported that thyrotoxicosis tends to recur following attacks of allergic rhinitis (347). Possibly this is due to a rise in endogenous cytokines and the recent association of raised IgE levels with newly diagnosed Graves’ disease indicates that this may be mediated by preferential Th2 activation (348). Cigarette smoking is associated with Graves' disease, and with ophthalmopathy (reviewed in 349) although it seems to be that smoking is associated with a lower risk of autoimmune hypothyroidism (350). The mechanisms behind these complex changes uncertain and is doubtless more complex than a local irritative effect. Environmental tobacco smoke induces allergic sensitization in mice, associated with increased production of Th2 cytokines, but a reduction in Th1 cytokines, by the respiratory tract (351). It is therefore possible that modulation of cytokines contributes to the worsening of ophthalmopathy with smoking. On the other hand, as noted above, the opposite effect prevails in hypothyroidism and smoking exposure was associated with a lower prevalence of thyroid autoantibodies in a large population survey of over 15000 US citizens (352) and smoking cessation is known to induce a transient rise in AITD (353). To explain this, investigations have been undertaken on anatabine, an alkaloid found in tobacco; this compound ameliorates EAT and reduces TG antibody levels in human subjects with Hashimoto’s thyroiditis (354). More general environmental pollutants have not been thoroughly explored for their possible effects (although there is some evidence from older experiments that methylcholanthracene can induce thyroiditis) but a recent study has demonstrated that polychlorinated biphenyls can induce the formation of TPO antibodies and lymphocytic thyroiditis in rats (355). A cross-sectional survey in Brazil has fond that Hashimoto’s thyroiditis and thyroid autoantibodies are more frequent in individuals living near to a petrochemical complex than in controls (356). In addition pesticide use, especially of the fungicides benomyl and maneb/mancozeb, has been associated with an increased odds of developing thyroid dysfunction although the mechanism of action is unclear (357). it clear that this aspect of the environment warrants further study in human thyroid disease. The role of dietary iodine is clearly established in animal models of AITD and circumstantial evidence exists for a similar role in man (358-360). The response is complex and recently it has been shown that iodide may exacerbate thyroiditis in NOD mice but not affect the
