Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


exists for a similar role in man (358-360). The response is complex and recently it has been shown that iodide may exacerbate thyroiditis in NOD mice but not affect the production of TSH-R antibodies in the same strain (361). Such findings are intriguing as they raise the possibility that the thyroiditis which accompanies Graves’ disease may not be due to the immune response to the TSH-R. Iodine may affect several aspects of the autoimmune response, as detailed in the section on experimental thyroiditis above. In addition, iodide stimulates thyroid follicular cells to produce the chemokines CCL2, CXCL8, and CXCL14 (362). These observations suggest that iodide at high concentrations could induce AITD through chemokine upregulation thus attracting lymphocytes into thyroid gland. Dietary selenium has also been proposed as a contributor. A recent large epidemiological survey of two counties of Shaanxi Province, China, one with adequate and the other with low selenium intake, showed that higher serum selenium was associated with lower odds ratio of autoimmune thyroiditis (0.47) and hypothyroidism (0.75) (362a). However a recent Cochrane Systematic Review of trials of selenium supplementation has shown no clear beneficial clinical effect in HT, although TPO autoantibody levels do fall over a 3 month period of supplementation (363). Vitamin D may be important in autoimmunity and many other disorders, as it is now recognized that individuals living in northerly latitudes may have suboptimal levels based on a fresh understanding of what normal levels of this vitamin should be. A significant inverse correlation has been observed between 25(OH)D levels and TPO antibody levels in Indian subjects, although the overall impact of this effect in terms of causality was low (364), and another prospective study has found no evidence for a role of vitamin D (250). A more recent large scale survey has found that for every 5 nmol/L increase in serum 25(OH)D there was an associated 1.5 to 1.6-fold reduction in the risk for developing Graves’ disease, Hashimoto’s thyroiditis or postpartum thyroiditis, but vitamin D was not strong associated with the level of thyroid autoantibodies (364a). These new results are also supported by a meta-analysis of all studies prior to this, indicating that low vitamin D levels, as well as frank deficiency, are indeed risk factors for AITD (364b). A variety of lifestyle factors that are difficult to investigate may also be involved. It is otherwise difficult to account for the increase in AITD seen
