Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


factors for AITD (364b). A variety of lifestyle factors that are difficult to investigate may also be involved. It is otherwise difficult to account for the increase in AITD seen in same-sex marriages (365). Stress is likely to be important in the etiology of Graves’ disease, although studies to date have had to rely on retrospective measures of this (reviewed in 366). Moreover stress does not appear to be asociated with the development of TPO antibodies in euthyroid women (369). Presumably stress acts on the immune system via pertubations in the neuroendocrine network, including alterations in glucocorticoids, but the complex interaction between the nervous, endocrine and immune systems includes the actions of neurotransmitters, CRF, leptin and melanocyte stimulating hormone as well and so unravelling the pathways whereby stress may alter the course of autoimmunity is difficult in the extreme (370). Indirect support for such a mechanism, mediated through norepinephrine, comes from experiments showing dramatic enhancement of delayed-type hypersensitivity by acute stress, the result of sympathetic nervous system activation on the migration of dendritic cells and subsequent enhanced T cell stimulation (371). Moderate consumption of alcohol appears to have a protective effect with regard to AIITD (371, 372). Given the diversity of these environmental factors, presumably operating on different genetic backgrounds, it will be difficult (if not impossible with current tools) to establish the relative importance of each in AITD. NORMAL AUTOIMMUNITY "Normal" people express antithyroid immunity, as previously described, and this must be important in understanding the overall mechanism of AITD. Antibodies to TG and TPO are present in both Graves’ disease and Hashimoto’s thyroiditis up to 7 years prior to diagnosis, increasing over time in the former and consistently elevated in the alter (374). Many people with low levels of antibodies but without clinical disease can be shown to have lymphocyte infiltrates in the thyroid at autopsy. B cells from normal individuals can be induced to secrete anti‑TG antibody in vitro. These observations clearly show that incomplete deletion of clonal self‑reactive T cells is indeed the normal (and indeed perhaps necessary) circumstance, and provide strong support for the idea that disordered control of this low level immunity may be important in the etiology of AITD. Effect of Antithyroid Drugs on the Immune Response Antithyroid drugs are used in Graves' disease to decrease production of thyroid hormone, and also lead to diminution in TSI and other antibody levels. Clinical studies
