Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


on the Immune Response Antithyroid drugs are used in Graves' disease to decrease production of thyroid hormone, and also lead to diminution in TSI and other antibody levels. Clinical studies show that antithyroid drug administration also leads to a diminution in antibody production in thyroxine replaced Hashimoto's thyroiditis patients (375), proving that their effect is not simply due to control of hyperthyroidism in Graves' disease. Somewhat surprisingly (376), administration of KClO 4 to patients with Graves' disease leads to diminished serum antibodies, suggesting that the effect of treatment is not specific for thionamide drugs, but could be mimicked by this compound. Antithyroid drugs inhibit macrophage function, interfering with oxygen metabolite production (377). Following antithyroid drug treatment of active Graves' disease, there is a prompt short‑term increase of DR+CD8+ T cells in the bloodstream as described above. Antithyroid drugs inhibit the production of cytokines, reactive oxygen metabolites and prostaglandin E 2 by TECs and the reduction in these inflammatory mediators may explain the site-specificity of the immunomodulation produced by antithyroid drugs (125). Another pathway for an immunomodulatory action of these drugs is via the upregulation of Fas ligand expression, which may then attenuate the autoimmune response of Fas-expressing T cells (378). Only approximately 50% of patients enter remission after treatment with antithyroid drugs, a fact which must be accommodated in any hypothesis concerning an immunomodulatory action of these agents. Those patients with Graves’ disease who have the highest IgE and IL-13 levels in the circulation are the most likely to relapse (379). In turn, this suggests that antithyroid drugs only effect remission in individuals who do not have a strong Th2 response; those with the strongest such responses seem unlikely to be affected by the relatively weak action of such drugs. AITD AS A CONSEQUENCE OF A MULTIFACTORAL PROCESS (TABLE 4) (FIG. 7-14) TABLE 4 DEVELOPMENT OF AUTOIMMUNE THYROID DISEASE View in own window Stage 1 --Basal State Normal exposure to antigen such as TG and normal low levels of antibody response Inherited susceptibility via HLA-DR, DQ, or other genes Stage 2a --Initial Thyroid Damage and Low Level Immune Response Viral or other damage with release of normal or altered TG, TPO, or TSH-R Increased antibody levels in genetically susceptible host with high efficiency HLA-DR, DQ, TCR molecules Infection induced elevation of IL-2 or IFN-γIL-2 stimulation of antigen specific or nonspecific ThIFN-γ stimulation of DR expression and NK activation Glucocorticoid-induced alterations
