Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


with high efficiency HLA-DR, DQ, TCR molecules Infection induced elevation of IL-2 or IFN-γIL-2 stimulation of antigen specific or nonspecific ThIFN-γ stimulation of DR expression and NK activation Glucocorticoid-induced alterations in lymphocyte function during stress Stage 2b --Spontaneous Regression of Immune Response Diminished antigen exposure Anti-idiotype feedback Antigen specific Ts induction Stage 3 --Antigen Driven Thyroid Cell Damage (or Stimulation) Complement dependent antibody mediated cytotoxicity Fc receptor+ cell ADCC by T, NK, or macrophage cells NK cell attack Direct CD4+ or CD8+ T cell cytotoxicity Antibody-mediated thyroid cell stimulation Stage 4 --Secondary Disease Augmenting Factors Thyroid cell DR, DQ expression --APC function Other molecules (cytokines, CD40, adhesion molecules) expressed by thyroid cell Immune complex binding and removal of Ts Stage 5 --Antigen Independent Disease Progression Recruitment of nonspecific Th or autoreactive Th Autoreactive Th bind DR+ TEC or B cells IL-2 activation of bystander Th Stage 6 --Clonal Expansion with Development of Associated Diseases Antigen release and new Th and B recruitment Cross reactivity with orbital antigen IL-2, IFN-γ augmentation of normal immune response to intrinsic factor, acetylcholine receptor, DNA, melanocytes, hair follicles, etc. Figure 7-14: Theoretical Sequence of Development of AITD. Thus one is led to the uncomfortable position that AITD is probably not caused by a single factor, but rather due to very many factors which interact. In terms of genetic and environmental factors, as well as factors that may be termed existential (such as age, being female and parity), these may all have to coincide in a favorable way for AITD to occur, in keeping with the Swiss-cheese model for accidents (Fig 7-15). We have divided the roles of these potential disease activity factors into a series of stages, emphasizing the predisposing events, antigen driven responses, and then the secondary and nonspecific amplification which ensues. Figure 7-15: A Swiss cheese model for the causation of autoimmune thyroid disease, showing the effect of cumulative environmental, genetic and existential weaknesses lining up to allow AITD to occur, like the holes in the slices of cheese. In reality each of the slices depicted is composed of many individual components. The Swiss cheese model for accident causation, for instance an airplane crashing, incorporates active failures (e.g. pilot error) and latent failures (e.g. maintenance deficiency). Some factors contributing to the initiation of AITD are latent (e.g. ageing, growing up in a hygienic environment) and others are active (e.g. possession of an HLA
