Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


(e.g. maintenance deficiency). Some factors contributing to the initiation of AITD are latent (e.g. ageing, growing up in a hygienic environment) and others are active (e.g. possession of an HLA allele which permits presentation of a thyroid autoantigen). Reproduced with permission from Weetman AP, Europ Thy J 2013 in press. Stage 1 -- In the basal state, Stage 1, immune reactivity to autologous antigen occurs as a normal process. This probably exists at a physiologically insignificant level, since not all T or B cells reacting with TSH-R, TPO or TG are clonally deleted, and Ag is normally present in the circulation. If assays become sensitive enough, we probably will find some level of antibodies to TSH-R, TPO and TG present in most or even all healthy persons, increasing in prevalence and concentration with age, and especially in women, since being female somehow augments antithyroid immunity many-fold. Patients who have inherited certain susceptibility genes will be especially prone to develop AITD because their T and B cell repertoire includes cells recognizing self-antigen, or their immunocytes are especially good at collecting, presenting, and responding to antigen. Stage 2 -- Possibly viral infection, or other causes of cell damage, or cross‑reacting antibodies present after Yersinia (or other) infection, leads to release of increased amounts of (possibly modified) thyroid antigens which, in genetically prone individuals, leads to an increased but still a low level immune response. Nonspecific production of TNF-a and IFN-g, in response to any infection or immune response, may augment MHC class expression on TECs, allow these cells to function as APCs, and increase production of the already established, normally occurring low levels of antibodies. The process may be affected by stress, although the mechanism remains quite uncertain. The process may go on over years, and wax and wane, as it has been shown that thyroiditis can be clinically apparent and then disappear. Factors involved in temporary or permanent suppression of the autoimmune response may include diminished thyroidal release of antigen, peripheral tolerance induction by DR-positive TECs which cannot provide a costimulatory signal, B cell anti-idiotype feedback, or the induction of T cells with a regulatory function, including those engendered by the mutual regulation of Th1 and Th2 subsets. In some individuals, thyroid cells may be less able to express DR, or may secrete TGF-b and suppress immune responses. Glucocorticoid administration and other immunosuppressives can also temporarily prevent the expression of nascent
