Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


thyroid cells may be less able to express DR, or may secrete TGF-b and suppress immune responses. Glucocorticoid administration and other immunosuppressives can also temporarily prevent the expression of nascent autoimmunity. Stage 3 -- If suppressive factors do not control the developing immune response, the disease progresses to a new intensity, now driven by specific antigens, inducing cell hyperfunction (TSI), or hypofunction (TSH blocking or NIS antibodies), or cell destruction. Direct T cell cytolysis and apoptosis, ADCC, and K or NK cell attack play an important role at this stage, and now the disease becomes clinically evident. Stage 4 -- As the disease develops, a variety of secondary factors come into play, and augments antithyroid immunoreactivity. Any stimulus which causes increased DR expression on thyroid cells, such as T cell release of IFN-g, combined with increased TSH stimulation, may allow TECs to function as APCs. Although perhaps poor in this function, they are large in number and localized in one area. The TECs may also participate in the autoimmune process by several other pathways, including the expression of adhesion molecules, Fas, Fas ligand, CD40 and complement regulatory proteins, and the production of a number of inflammatory mediators such as cytokines, reactive oxygen metabolites, nitric oxide and prostaglandins. These events are, like class II expression, dependent on cytokines and other signals generated by the intrathyroidal lymphocytic infiltrate. Some patients may inherit diminished T regulatory cell function. The ongoing immune reaction itself, may lead to nonspecific suppressor dysfunction, further augmenting immunoreactivity. Stage 5 -- T cell derived cytokines may non-specifically induce bystander antigen specific T and B cells to be activated and produce antibody. Autoreactive cells will now accumulate in thyroid tissue because of the many strongly DR+ positive lymphocytes and TECs, and augment the developing response by lymphokine secretion or cytolysis, in a manner independent of thyroid antigens. At this stage in the disease, non-specific autoreactive immune processes may dominate a disease process which no longer depends upon antigen for its continuation. Stage 6 -- As the concentration of activated T and B cells builds in thyroid tissue, and autoreactive and antigen nonspecific T cells become progressively involved, cell destruction may lead to release of new antigens. Cross-reacting epitopes, and nonspecific stimulation of T cells in genetically prone individuals, may cause the addition of new immunologic syndromes (exophthalmos, pretibial myxedema, atrophic gastritis) typical of older patients with more long standing and
