Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


stimulation of T cells in genetically prone individuals, may cause the addition of new immunologic syndromes (exophthalmos, pretibial myxedema, atrophic gastritis) typical of older patients with more long standing and florid disease. THYROIDITIS, MYXEDEMA, AND GRAVES' DISEASE AS AUTOIMMUNE DISEASES HASHIMOTO'S THYROIDITIS (FIG. 7-16) Figure 7-16: Balance of Immune Reactions Favoring Graves' or Hashimoto's Disease. How well do the changes of Hashimoto's thyroiditis fulfill the criteria of an immunologic reaction? Neither the presence of autoantibodies in the serum of patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis nor the demonstration in vitro of cytotoxicity of the serum constitutes definitive evidence that autoimmunity is the cause of the disease. Rarely, if ever, is there a well-defined initial immunizing event, and accordingly a shortened latent period after a secondary stimulus has not been observed. Further, experimental passive transfer of the immune state in normal recipients has not yet been attempted and has failed when human sera have been transfused into monkeys and other animals. This experiment is conducted by nature during pregnancy, since maternal antibodies cross the placenta. Transplacental passage of thyroid stimulating antibodies can produce neonatal thyrotoxicosis, and TSH blocking antibodies can produce transient neonatal hypothyroidism. Passage of TG antibody or TPO antibody has no detectable cytotoxic effect. Assays for T cell reactivity in man, supplemented by data from animal models, provide compelling evidence of the autoimmune basis for Hashimoto’s thyroiditis, but this does not exclude an amplifying role for TG and TPO antibodies via ADCC, and, for TPO antibodies, via complement fixation. It may well be that T cell-mediated damage is required initially for all of these antibody-mediated events to take place, as this could be necessary for such access. Another striking feature of Hashimoto’s thyroiditis is the development of Hürthle cells, with granular eosinophilic cytoplasm. This appears to be the result of a chronic inflammatory milieu, resulting in overexpression of immunoproteasomes (3680 The evidence is now overwhelming that an immune reaction mediated by T lymphocytes is involved in the development of experimental thyroiditis in animals and several mechanisms may operate singly or together in man to injure TECs. Lymphocytes presensitized to antigens of the thyroid are present in the circulation of most if not all patients and are believed to localize to the thyroid itself. Since T cell mediated immunity is frequently lethal to cells, it is logical to assume that the T cell mediated immune response in thyroiditis could cause first a
