Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


thyroid itself. Since T cell mediated immunity is frequently lethal to cells, it is logical to assume that the T cell mediated immune response in thyroiditis could cause first a goiter, with lymphocyte infiltration and compensatory thyroid cell hyperplasia, and then gradual cell death and gland atrophy. The circulating antibodies may also be a functional part of this reaction. We can accept the idea that T cell-mediated immunity is the major pathogenic factor in thyroiditis. Idiopathic Myxedema Even before the present era of immunologic study, the basic unity of Hashimoto's thyroiditis and myxedema was realized. To quote from Crile, writing in 1954 (381): "Struma lymphomatosa is responsible not only for large lymphadenoid goiters, but also for fibrosis and atrophy of the thyroid. The clinical spectrum of struma lymphomatosa extends from spontaneous myxedema with no palpable thyroid tissue to a rapidly growing goiter associated with no clinical evidence of thyroid failure." Hubble (382) also drew attention to the occurrence of syndromes intermediate between those of myxedema and Hashimoto’s thyroiditis, in which a small, firm thyroid gland can be felt on careful palpation. The histologic studies of Bastenie (383) and Douglass and Jacobson (384) revealed a close similarity in appearance of the thyroid remnant in myxedema and the Hashimoto gland. The immunologic studies of Owen and Smart (385), and the experience in most thyroid laboratories, indicate a similar incidence and titer of antibodies in myxedema and Hashimoto's thyroiditis. The familial association of myxedema and thyroiditis was described earlier and so far no clear genetic susceptibility difference has been reported in the two diseases. Attempts to ascribe atrophy of the thyroid gland in myxedema to particular antibodies, such as those inhibiting growth or TSH (386), or which mediate ADCC have not been confirmed by other studies (reviewed in 234). Thus, idiopathic myxedema is the end result of Hashimoto's thyroiditis, in which the phase of thyroid enlargement was minimal or was overlooked. We may assume that in idiopathic myxedema the cell‑destructive T cell-mediated immune response is an important pathogenic factor in the illness, and that cytotoxic antibodies and TSH blocking antibodies contribute to the development of hypothyroidism, but perhaps in only a proportion. Graves' Disease Graves' disease is associated with a similar type of thyroid autoimmunity, since most hyperthyroid patients have circulating TG and TPO antibodies. High antibody levels are found in a small group of hyperthyroid patients and histologic examination of their glands
