Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


thyroid autoimmunity, since most hyperthyroid patients have circulating TG and TPO antibodies. High antibody levels are found in a small group of hyperthyroid patients and histologic examination of their glands show changes of both cell stimulation and focal thyroiditis (387). Some patients with clinical Graves' disease have tissue changes in the thyroid that are typical of thyroiditis (388). This type of patient with Graves' disease most often becomes hypothyroid after operation (389), or after 131 I therapy (390). It is also well known that some patients fluctuate from hyper- to hypothyroidism over a period of months and others behave in the converse fashion, and of course the familial association of Graves’ disease with autoimmune hypothyroidism is well established. The humoral response in Graves' disease leads to production of TG and microsomal TPO antibodies, but most importantly, as described in Chapter 10, B cells produce TSI, TBII and, in some, TSH blocking antibodies (35). TSI stimulate thyroid release of hormone primarily via cyclic AMP, although other pathways may also be activated by TSI in a proportion of patients. TSI are true cell stimulators and can even induce experimental goiter. However, the clinical picture in Graves’ disease will be a balance between the stimulation produced by TSI and the opposing effects of any TSH blocking antibodies which may be present. Evidence also supports a role for T cell mediated immunity to thyroid antigens in Graves' disease, and against orbital antigens in patients with associated ophthalmopathy. We speculate that Graves' disease may be a condition representing a semistable balance between stimulatory, blocking, and cell‑lethal immune responses. Thus, TSI could cause thyroid hyperplasia and produce hyperthyroidism. Other antibodies might block the action of TSI either directly or, as in the case of NIS antibodies, indirectly, and prevent this hyperplastic response in some patients. Cytotoxic T cells will also gradually destroy cells and produce hypothyroidism either spontaneously or after therapy. It must be admitted that the etiology of ophthalmopathy still remains rather obscure, although the key role of cytokines in pathogenesis, causing fibroblast activation, seems firmly established. RELATION TO OTHER DISEASES : Thyroid Cancer Thyroid antibodies are present in increased prevalence (up to 32%) in patients with carcinoma of the thyroid, and usually are at low titer. Histologic evidence of thyroiditis is found in up to 26% of tumors. Histologic changes range from diffuse thyroiditis to focal collections of lymphocytes around the tumor or reactive
