Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


low titer. Histologic evidence of thyroiditis is found in up to 26% of tumors. Histologic changes range from diffuse thyroiditis to focal collections of lymphocytes around the tumor or reactive lymphoid hyperplasia. Possibly release of antigens leads to increased thyroid autoimmunity. Some evidence suggests that patients who have thyroid antibodies have a better prognosis than antibody negative patients. Lymphoma and lymphosarcoma of the thyroid are associated with Hashimoto's thyroiditis (391), and there is compelling evidence that thyroiditis precedes development of the tumor. An increased frequency of carcinoma, especially of the papillary type, has been suggested in Hashimoto's thyroiditis but this relationship remains to be fully established (392). Adolescent Goiter Enlargement of the thyroid during the second decade, accompanied by normal results of function tests, usually is labeled adolescent goiter. If the examination includes needle biopsy, an appreciable incidence of Hashimoto's thyroiditis is found (393) - up to 65%. Eighty percent of these children with thyroiditis have a positive thyroid antibody test result. The parents of many of them have either overt thyroid disease or circulating thyroid antibodies. Hyperplasia, in response to an increased demand for thyroid hormone, and colloid involution are at the root of some of these goiters, but Hashimoto's thyroiditis is the most frequent explanation of adolescent goiter in iodine sufficient areas. Transient Thyrotoxicosis, Painless Thyroiditis, Postpartum Thyroiditis, And Related Syndromes These illnesses, all similar, involve an acute exacerbation of thyroid autoimmunity occurring independent of, or following pregnancy in women, and in men. They are characterized by sequential inflammation-induced T4 and TG release, transient hypothyroidism, usually return to euthyroidism, and are discussed in Chapters 8 and 14. They are considered subtypes of Hashimoto's thyroiditis, and in the postpartum period, appear to result from release of the immunoregulatory effects of normal pregnancy (211). Focal Thyroiditis Focal lymphocytic infiltrations are frequently seen in Graves' disease, nodular goiter, nontoxic or colloid goiter, and thyroid carcinoma. The significance of these changes is not precisely known, but they correlate with positive antibody titers and may represent variations that do not differ qualitatively from thyroiditis. Riedel’s Thyroiditis And Ig4 Disease This rare thyroid disorder is associated with both Hashimoto’s thyroiditis and Graves’ disease and in addition many patients have evidence of fibrosis elsewhere, such as the retroperitoneum, lung, biliary tract and orbit. In one large series, 12 of 15 patients had positive TPO antibodies (389) It is now recognized that some of these patients
