Autoimmunity to the Thyroid Gland
KEYWORDS: cells, thyroid, disease, cell, antibodies, thyroiditis, graves, graves disease, patients, autoimmune, aitd, antigen, immune, response, hashimoto


as the retroperitoneum, lung, biliary tract and orbit. In one large series, 12 of 15 patients had positive TPO antibodies (389) It is now recognized that some of these patients with multifocal fibrosclerosis have IgG4-related sclerosing disease in which lymphocytes and IgG4-positive plasma cells infiltrate the affected tissues, especially the lacrimal gland, biliary tree and pancreas but the exact relationship of this entity to Riedels’ thyroiditis is unclear at present. There is a predominance of IgA rather than IgG4 in Riedel’s thyroiditis, but the effects of steroids may obscure the few analyses that have been undertaken (395, 396). However it does appear that Hashimoto’s thyroiditis can be divided into two discrete entities based on whether IgG4 plasma cells predominate in the thyroid infiltrate: in those individuals with IgG4 predominance, there is a greater male frequency, more rapid progression to hypothyroidism and more intense gland fibrosis (397). These studies have been predominantly undertaken in Japanese subjects. In a recent survey from Europe, only 12.5% of Hashimoto thyroid glands showed this feature: there was an association with younger age and male sex, and fibrosis was identified in 96 % of the IgG4-related cases but also in 18 % of the non-IgG4-related cases (397a). The authors note that unlike other forms of IgG4-related disease, the fibrosis is not accompanied by intense eosinophilia or obliterative phlebitis. IgG4 subclass thyroid autoantibodies display heritability in individuals with high levels of both TPO and TG antibodies; it is possible that more sophisticated analysis of autoantibody subtypes could lead to new methods to predict the natural history of disease (398). Other Problems An association between the occurrence of maternal antithyroid antibodies and recurrent abortion has been reported (399) and although this association has been disputed, a recent study showed clear evidence that the presence of TPO antibodies was associated with a 3-4-fold increased risk of miscarriage in women having in vitro fertilization (400). There is also an association between breast cancer and thyroid autoimmunity (401, 402) and between depression in middle-aged women and the presence of TPO antibodies (403). The nature of these associations is unclear; does thyroid autoimmunity predispose to such adverse events, or is the presence of thyroid autoimmunity simply a marker of a non-specific disturbance in the immune system due to whatever has caused miscarriage, cancer or depression? Having thyroid autoimmunity is not all bad news. Community-dwelling older women who have TG and TPO antibodies
