BACTERIOLOGY
KEYWORDS: cid, specimens, tbp, evitagen, burgdorferi, phagocytophilum, tick-borne, results, ref, positive, miyamotoi, targets, target, pcr, irefrodgrub


part of the routine clinical assessment at the time of specimen collection. No specimens with discordant results were serologically positive for Lyme disease at the initial presentation, and results from testing convalescent-phaseserawerenotavailable.Therefore,availableclinicalandadditional laboratory information in the medical records were used to aid in adjudication of discrepantresults(Table3). Uponrepeattesting,thefourspecimensthatoriginallytestedpositiveonlybyTBP, including one each for Rickettsia spp., Borrelia group 1, Borrelia group 2, and E. chaffeensis,remainednegativebyREFandalsowerereportednegativebyTBP.How- ever,sequenceanalysisofspecimenTBP451generatedapositiveresultforB.burgdor- feri.Thispatienthadaclinicalhistoryofchills,myalgia,andnauseaforapproximately 1weekpriortospecimencollectionandtesting.Basedonthesedata,thespecimenwas consideredatruepositiveforB.burgdorferi,withabloodconcentrationnearthelimit of detection for both the TBP and the REF tests. The patients that tested positive for Borreliagroup2(TBP255)andE.chaffeensis(TBP269)alsohadhistoryofdocumented tickbite,myalgias,andfatigue,andtheE.chaffeensispositivepatientwastreatedwith a single dose of doxycycline (200mg) and returned 1month later with ongoing myalgia,arthralgia,andfatigue.However,repeatTBPandsequenceanalysisforeachof these specimens was negative, so we could not definitively determine whether the originalTBPresultwasaccurate.ThepatientthattestedpositiveforRickettsiaspp.by TBP reported carpal tunnel pain, paresthesia, fatigue, diaphoresis, and decreased energy; however, there was no history of tick bite or rash. Repeat TBP and sequence analysis were negative. We therefore considered the original positive TBP finding a false-positiveresult. Upon repeat testing of the six specimens that yielded a positive result for B. burgdorferibyonlyREF,threeremainedpositivewithsimilarC values(31.9to33.3),but T DNA sequencing was negative. Two of the patients (TBP265 and TBP469) had docu- mented erythema migrans (EM) lesions and a history of tick bite and presented with fatigue and myalgia, and B. burgdorferi was recovered by culture from the third patient’s blood sample (TBP338). Based on these data, these three specimens were consideredtruepositives,withorganismconcentrationsbelowthelimitnecessaryfor detection by TBP or DNA sequencing. Of the remaining three discordant specimens, one (TBP353) was not available for repeat REF test but did test positive by TBP upon repeat(originallyithadbeennegative).Thepatienthadahistoryoffeverto103°Fand suspected tick bite. In addition, sequence analysis confirmed the presence of B. burgdorferi in this specimen. Therefore, this specimen was also considered a true positive for B. burgdorferi. The remaining two discordant specimens were negative upon repeat testing by both TBP and REF, as well as DNA sequencing. One of the patientshadahistoryoffever,bodyaches,EMrash,anddocumentedtickbite7days priortospecimencollectionandtesting(TBP408).Basedonthesefindings,thissample also likely represents a true case of acute infection with B. burgdorferi with a low concentration of organisms (C 33.4). The final patient had a history of arthralgia T affectingmultiplejoints,myalgia,andpotentialexposuretoticksbutdidnothavean obvious bite (TBP424). The original REF C value was 36.0, the highest documented T value in this study, so we were unable to definitively determine whether the original REFresultwasatruepositive.However,failureofthesefinaltwodiscordantspecimens (TBP408 and TBP424) to repeat as positive by REF can be explained by the relatively high C values (33.4 and 36.0) obtained in the original result. Evaluation of B. T burgdorferi-containingsamplesattheREFtestinglaboratory(GMF)confirmed(cid:7)100% reproducibilityofreplicatesampleswhentheconcentrationofspirochetesintheblood November2019 Volume57 Issue11 e00513-19 jcm.asm.org 8 IdentificationofTick-BornePathogensUsingHDPCR JournalofClinicalMicrobiology TABLE4ComparisonofHDPCRTBPandreferencePCRbasedonthecompositegold
