Dingetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2017) 17:419
KEYWORDS: polyisoprenivorans, gordonia, species, level, case, catheter, isolate, report, species level, infections, lymphoma, cvc, aids, bacteremia, maldi-tof


DOI10.1186/s12879-017-2523-5 CASE REPORT Open Access Gordonia Bacteremia due to polyisoprenivorans : case report and review of literature Xiurong Ding, Yanhua Yu, Ming Chen, Chen Wang, Yanfang Kang, Hongman Li and Jinli Lou* Abstract Background: Gordonia polyisoprenivoransis a ubiquitous aerobic actinomycetes bacterium that rarely cause infections in humans. Here, we report a case ofG. polyisoprenivoranscatheter-relatedbacteremia inan AIDS patient. Case presentation: A 37-year-old man with a past medical history of AIDS-related lymphoma suffered bacteremia caused by a Gram-positive corynebacterium. The strain was identified as a Gordonia species by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization–time of flight mass spectrometry and confirmed to G. polyisoprenivorans by 16S rRNA combined withgyrB gene sequencing analyses. The patientwas treated with imipenem and had a goodoutcome. Conclusions: The findingsfrom our case and previously reported cases indicate thatmalignant hematologic disease, immunosuppression, and indwelling catheter heighten the risk for G. polyisoprenivoransinfection. Molecular methods should be employed for proper identification of G. polyisoprenivorans to thespecies level. Keywords: Gordonia polyisoprenivorans,Bacteremia, Case report, AIDS Background vincristine, and etoposide(R-EPOCH).Thepatient recov- Gordonia polyisoprenivorans is a ubiquitous gram- ered well and was discharged, with advice for regular positive coryneform bacterium belonging to the family follow-up. Three months ago, the results of a positron Gordoniaceae in the order Actinomycetales . It was emission tomography-computed tomography scan sug- first isolated in1999 from stagnantwater inside a deteri- gested lymphoma recurrence, and the patient was trans- orated automobile tire . G. polyisoprenivorans is well ferredtoourinstitutionwithanindwellingcentralvenous known for being the most effective rubber-degrading catheter (CVC) catheter that had been inserted 3 months bacteria, but not as a common cause of bacteremia . earlierforadministrationofchemotherapy.After3daysof Here, we report a case of bacteremia caused by G. polyi- chemotherapy with etoposide, ifosfamide, and cisplatin, soprenivorans in a patient with AIDS and review similar the results of clinical laboratory tests revealed myelosup- cases reported in the literature to summarize the im- pression, with white cell count of 0.11 × 109/L, portantfeaturesofthisdisease. hemoglobin of 4.0 g/dL, and platelet count of 8 × 109/L. His body temperature had been abnormal for 2 days, reaching38.6°Catthehighestpoint,withprocalcitoninof Case presentation 0.96 μg/L, ESR of 56 mm/h, and CD4+ T-lymphocyte A 37-year-old man with a past medical history of AIDS- countof52×106cells/L.Aphysicalexaminationrevealed related lymphoma was admitted to Beijing Youan nospecificsignsofinfectionsorskinmanifestations.Two cell lymphoma. The patient had been diagnosed with otherthroughtheCVC(each10mlinvolume),werecol- AIDS-related lymphoma 1 year earlier, and received eight lectedandsenttothelaboratoryforexamination.Thepa- courses of chemotherapy with rituximab, doxorubicin, tient was started on empirical antimicrobial therapy with imipenem. *Correspondence: The blood
