Dingetal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2017) 17:419
KEYWORDS: polyisoprenivorans, gordonia, species, level, case, catheter, isolate, report, species level, infections, lymphoma, cvc, aids, bacteremia, maldi-tof


identification to the species level and genus indwellingdevice-associatedinfections.Ourpa- level, respectively), suggesting it did not resemble any tient’s history of AIDS, hematologic malignancy, chemo- knownGordoniaspeciesinthedatabase. therapy, and indwelling intravascular catheter may have Thereafter,bacterialDNAextraction,PCRamplification, predisposedhimtothisrareinfection.Thus,alltheafore- and DNA sequencing of the 16S rRNA with a universal mentioned cases had hematologic malignancies and had primer pair were conducted to confirm the results. The undergone medical deviceimplantationoperations, which obtained product sequence (1404 bp) was compared with are generally knownas major riskfactors for bloodstream published sequences in the GenBank database (http:// infectionscausedbyG.polyisoprenivorans. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/blast). The results showed that the Using conventional microbiologic culture and bio- isolate had 99% matches with the type strains of G. polyi- chemical analyses, Gordonia species are particularly dif- soprenivorans (strains W8130 and VH2), Gordonia ficult to identify to both the genus and species levels. bronchialis (strain DSM 43247), and Gordonia terrae TheyaresometimesdismissedasCorynebacteria,Nocar- (strain EY-T12). Sequencing of the gyrB genes was then dia, or Rhodococcus species . It is also be- performed according to a previous report . The results lieved that the incidence of Gordonia infections has showed that the gyrB gene of the isolate had 99.0% se- been underestimated. In our review of the literature, all quence identity with the gene sequence of the G. polyiso- of the G. polyisoprenivorans isolates were confirmed to prenivorans strain, indicating that the isolate was G. the species level by 16S rRNA gene sequencing analyses, polyisoprenivorans. and sometimes also required combination with secA1 or The isolate was sensitive to amikacin, ampicillin, gyrB gene fragment sequencing. This could be one rea- amoxicillin-clavulanate, cefotaxime, imipenem, meropenem, son why there have been few reports on G. polyisopreni- intermediatesensitivitytotrimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. although MALDI-TOF MS failed to identify the isolate At 3 days after the start of imipenem therapy, there to the species level (G. polyisoprenivorans is not in the was a complete disappearance of fever and a remarkable Biotyper 3.0 database), it did identify the isolate as a onward, the patient was switched to oral antibiotics. that G. sputi and G. bronchialis can be confidently iden- As there was no swelling or effusion around the tified to the species level by MALDI-TOF MS. There- CVC, the catheter was not removed. The patient was fore, we believe that with the continuous improvement followed up for 3 months. There was no recurrence and development of the database, MALDI-TOF MS will of the infection during the follow-up period. However, become a powerful tool for
