The Insulin Receptor and Its Signal Transduction Network
KEYWORDS: insulin, receptor, insulin receptor, binding, kinase, signaling, structure, cell, domain, tyrosine, site, glucose, protein, igf-i, activation


its receptor affects multiple physiological processes in the organism (left) by increasing (green arrows) or decreasing (red arrows) various intracellular metabolic pathways (right). Inspired by figure 2-1 of reference 1. The concept that insulin acts by promoting glucose transport across the membrane of target cells (rather than acting directly on enzymes of intermediary metabolism of glucose) was established in 1949 by the iconic experiment of Rachmiel Levine and colleagues (8), who showed that insulin markedly increased the volume of distribution of non-metabolisable galactose in eviscerated nephrectomized dogs from 45-47% of body weight to 75%, a figure close to that of total body water. From this finding they proposed the following working hypothesis: "Insulin acts upon the cell membrane of certain tissues (skeletal muscle, etc.) in such a manner that the transfer of hexoses (and perhaps other substances) from the extracellular fluid into the cell is facilitated. The intracellular fate of the hexoses depends upon the availability of metabolic systems for their transformation. In the case of glucose, dissimilation, glycogen storage, and transformation to fat are secondarily stimulated by the rapidity of its entry into the cell". This major conceptual advance paved the way to the notion that insulin acts on a specific cell membrane receptor. The receptor was first characterized by radioligand binding studies in the early 70's (9-12), and by detailed biochemical studies in the early 80's that established the glycoprotein nature and subunit structure of the receptor. I have reviewed the early steps in insulin receptor research elsewhere (13). Following the demonstration in 1982 by Ora Rosen's group that a tyrosine kinase was closely associated with the insulin receptor (14), several groups showed that the insulin receptor itself is a tyrosine kinase, an enzyme that catalyses the transfer of the g phosphate of ATP to tyrosine residues on protein substrates, the first being the receptor itself. The cloning of the insulin receptor cDNA in 1985 by the groups of Axel Ullrich and Bill Rutter (15, 16) established that the insulin receptor indeed belongs to the superfamily of receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs). THE RECEPTOR TYROSINE KINASE SUPERFAMILY The RTKs regulate a diverse array of cellular functions in multicellular organisms, including cell proliferation, survival, differentiation, migration and metabolism. The human genome encodes 55 RTKs that fall into 19 subfamilies (Fig. 2) based on which polypeptide ligands they bind, their sequence homology and the modular structure of their extracellular domains. For
