The Insulin Receptor and Its Signal Transduction Network
KEYWORDS: insulin, receptor, insulin receptor, binding, kinase, signaling, structure, cell, domain, tyrosine, site, glucose, protein, igf-i, activation


genome encodes 55 RTKs that fall into 19 subfamilies (Fig. 2) based on which polypeptide ligands they bind, their sequence homology and the modular structure of their extracellular domains. For recent reviews of the structural biology of this superfamily see references 17-22. A detailed analysis of the properties of each subfamily is compiled in reference 18. The RTKs are in general single transmembrane polypeptide chains that cross the cell membrane once. The intracellular part of the receptor contains a tyrosine kinase domain, inactive in the absence of ligand. In the presence of ligand bound to the extracellular domain, the RTK becomes an activated dimer, in essence an allosteric dimeric enzyme (23). There is debate as to whether the activation is due to ligand-induced dimerization or to ligand stabilization of a pre-existing monomer-dimer equilibrium (21, 23, 24). The insulin receptor subfamily (number 2 in Fig. 2), which comprizes the insulin receptor, the type 1 IGF receptor (also called IGF-I receptor) which binds insulin-like growth factors I and II, and the orphan insulin receptor-related receptor (IRRR), is an exception in the RTK superfamily in that it exists as a covalent disulfide-linked dimer (with a low basal activity kinase) in the absence of ligand. This suggests that the activation of a pre-formed dimer is a more plausible model for the superfamily. Upon ligand activation of the dimerized RTK, the kinase domains come in contact and are activated by transphosphorylation, resulting in phosphorylation of specific Tyr residues in the intracellular part of the receptor outside the kinase domain. These phosphorylated residues become binding sites for signaling partner proteins that contain SH2 (Src homology 2) domains that also become phosphorylated by the kinase or are activated by conformational changes, and start the intracellular signal transduction cascade. Figure 2 The human receptor tyrosine kinase superfamily. This shows the modular structure of the various subfamilies of RTKs encoded in the human genome. Note that the AATYK family of three kinases is now considered a serine/threonine kinase (17), which leaves 55 RTKs grouped into 19 families. The various modules that constitute the architecture of the extracellular and intracellular domains are shown below. A detailed description of the structure of these modules can be found in reference 22. From reference 22, used with permission. MODULAR STRUCTURE OF THE INSULIN RECEPTOR The insulin receptor has a modular structure (for review see ref. 25) encoded by a gene (located on chromosome
