The Insulin Receptor and Its Signal Transduction Network
KEYWORDS: insulin, receptor, insulin receptor, binding, kinase, signaling, structure, cell, domain, tyrosine, site, glucose, protein, igf-i, activation


reference 22, used with permission. MODULAR STRUCTURE OF THE INSULIN RECEPTOR The insulin receptor has a modular structure (for review see ref. 25) encoded by a gene (located on chromosome 19) with 22 exons and 21 introns (26, Fig. 3). The short exon 11 that encodes a 12-amino acid sequence is alternatively spliced, resulting in two receptor isoforms (A and B) that differ slightly in affinity for insulin (27-29). The B isoform binds the IGFs with at least 100 times lower affinity than insulin, while the A isoform has significantly higher affinity than the B isoform for IGF-I and especially IGF-II (30) and may play a role in tumorigenesis. The IGF-I receptor binds IGF-II with a lower affinity than IGF-I and insulin with a 500-fold lower affinity. The receptors are synthesized as single chain preproreceptors that are processed by a furin-like proteolytic enzyme, glycosylated, folded and dimerized to yield the mature a 2 b 2 receptor. In cells expressing both insulin and IGF-I receptors, hybrid receptors are formed consisting of one half of each (31). Their physiological role is unknown. Comparative sequence analysis of the insulin/IGF-I receptors and the related EGF receptor (32) had led Bajaj et al. to suggest (Fig. 3) that the N-terminal half consists of two large homologous globular domains, L1 and L2, separated by a cysteine-rich region later predicted to consist of a series of disulfide-linked modules similar to those found in the tumor-necrosis factor (TNF) receptor and laminin. The C-terminal half of the receptors was predicted to consist of three fibronectin type III (FnIII) domains. The second FnIII domain contains a large insert domain (120 residues) of unknown structure containing the site of cleavage between a- and b-subunits. The disulfide bond between each a- and b- subunit involves the cysteins C647 and C860. In addition there are a-a disulfide bonds at C524 in the FnIII-1 domains and between the triplet C682-C683 and C685 in the insert domain (Fig. 3). The intracellular portion of the a-subunit contains the kinase domain flanked by two regulatory regions, a juxtamembrane region involved in docking insulin receptor substrates (IRS) 1-4 and Shc as well as in receptor internalization, and a C-terminal tail. The IGF-I receptor has a similar modular organization (33). The recent progress in the X-ray crystallographic structures of whole ectodomains or fragments of the insulin and IGF-I receptors (see below) has largely validated the structural predictions shown in
