The Insulin Receptor and Its Signal Transduction Network
KEYWORDS: insulin, receptor, insulin receptor, binding, kinase, signaling, structure, cell, domain, tyrosine, site, glucose, protein, igf-i, activation


(33). The recent progress in the X-ray crystallographic structures of whole ectodomains or fragments of the insulin and IGF-I receptors (see below) has largely validated the structural predictions shown in Fig. 3. Figure 3 Modular structure of the insulin receptor. Cartoon of the α2β2 structure of the insulin receptor, drawn to scale. On the left half of the receptor, spans of the 22 exon-encoded sequences. On the right half, spans of predicted protein modules. Module boundaries mostly correspond to exon boundaries. L1 and L2: Large domains 1 and 2 (leucine-rich repeats); CR: Cys-rich domain. FnIII-1, FnIII-2, FnIII-3: Fibronectin III domains. ID: insert in FnIII-2. TM: transmembrane domain. JM: juxtamembrane domain. TK: tyrosine kinase domain. C: C-terminal tail. Black rectangle near FnIII-1: major immunogenic region. Orange dots: N-glycosylation sites. Black dots: ligand binding ”hotspots” identified by single amino acids site-directed mutagenesis. The two α-subunits are linked by a disulfide bond between the two Cys 524 in the first FnIII domain. One to three of the triplet Cys at 682, 683 and 685 in the insert within the second FnIII domain are also involved in α-α disulfide bridges. There is a single disulfide bridge between α and β subunits between Cys 647 in the insert domain and Cys 872 (nomenclature of the B isoform) . Exon 11 is highlighted. Adapted from reference 25. STRUCTURE OF THE UNBOUND INSULIN RECEPTOR ECTODOMAIN ( apo -RECEPTOR) The stepwise progress over the past 10 years in solving the structure of the human insulin receptor ectodomain (34-38) has been recently reviewed (39, 40) and I will focus here on the most salient features, based on the most recent higher-resolution (3.3 Å) structure of the ectodomain bound to four monoclonal antibodies (41) Fab fragments (not shown here), aided by a novel interactive molecular dynamics strategy (38, Fig. 4). The ectodomain homodimer has a two-fold symmetric inverted "V" conformation, with the FnIII-1,-2,-3 modules sticking like a linear stem from the cell membrane and the L1-CR-L2 module folding over downwards. The L1 and L2 domains are leucine-rich repeat domains. The L1-CR-L2 module of one receptor monomer packs against the FnIII-1,-2,-3 modules of the alternate receptor monomer. Of utmost importance for insulin binding, the aCT 16--amino acid C-terminal helical segment of the insert domain of one monomer packs against the central b-sheet of the L1 domain of the alternate receptor monomer. This tandem L1/ aCT element (36) forms the major insulin
