The Insulin Receptor and Its Signal Transduction Network
KEYWORDS: insulin, receptor, insulin receptor, binding, kinase, signaling, structure, cell, domain, tyrosine, site, glucose, protein, igf-i, activation


the insert domain of one monomer packs against the central b-sheet of the L1 domain of the alternate receptor monomer. This tandem L1/ aCT element (36) forms the major insulin binding site (site 1, see below). This structure does not contain bound insulin. Figure 4 Architectural assembly of the unbound insulin receptor ectodomain. This figure is based on the latest higher resolution structure of the apo-receptor at 3.3 Å resolution (38). A. The α subunit. Domains are labeled as in Figure 3. FnIII-2α is the α subunit component of the FnIII-2 domain. B. The β subunit. Domains are labeled as in Figure 3. FnIII-2β is the β subunit component of the FnIII-2 domain. C. The αβ monomer. The monomer shows an inverted V-shaped structure. The arrow denotes the site of proteolytic cleavage of the proreceptor. This structure is the A-isoform of the insulin receptor. Twelve amino acids at the end of the insert domain of the β subunit are missing from the structure. The B-isoform would have 12 more amino acids encoded by exon 11 at the end of the αCT domain of the α subunit..D. The α2β2 dimer. The arrow indicates the location of the triplet of disulfide bonds between Cys 682, 683 and 685 of the two α subunits. E. The tandem insulin binding site 1 made of the αCT helical segment of one α subunit binding in trans to the beta sheet surface of the L1 domain of the second α subunit. The rest of the α subunit insert (ID), which is not part of the binding site, is also shown for orientation. F. Idem, rotated 90 degrees. Drawn using DSViewerPro from PDB file Model-S1 2, kindly provided by Mike Lawrence, based on PDB file 4ZXB complemented using IMDFF (38). DEFINITION OF THE RECEPTOR BINDING SURFACES ON THE INSULIN AND RECEPTOR MOLECULES The mechanism and kinetics of insulin binding to its receptor have been extensively studied for over 40 years using radioligands (13). Insulin binding is complex and shows negative cooperativity, as shown by curvilinear Scatchard plots and acceleration of the dissociation of a pre-bound insulin tracer in an "infinite" dilution in the presence of cold insulin (42). Only one insulin molecule binds to the receptor dimer with high affinity; additional insulin binding is of lower affinity, presumably due to ligand-induced asymmetry. IGF-I binding to the IGF-I receptor shows similar properties. It was proposed 20 years ago
