The Insulin Receptor and Its Signal Transduction Network
KEYWORDS: insulin, receptor, insulin receptor, binding, kinase, signaling, structure, cell, domain, tyrosine, site, glucose, protein, igf-i, activation


B27 are oriented toward aCT. Contacts with Phe B25 stabilize residues 716-719. The current structure (Fig. 6) generally supports previous mappings of site 1 and 2 on the insulin molecule (Fig. 5). The crystal structure of IGF-I bound to a hybrid microreceptor site 1 complex (insulin receptor L1-CR fragment with the IGF-I receptor aCT peptide) was also recently solved (63), proving congruent to the insulin bound site 1 complex shown in Fig. 5; interestingly the IGF-I aCT peptide is threading through the polypeptide loop formed by the C domain of IGF-I. Figure 6 Structure of the site 1 insulin-receptor complex. Detailed view of insulin's site 1 and site 2 residues in the ternary complex between insulin, L1 and αCT that includes insulin's B-chain C-terminus. The figure shows the structural relationship of insulin's site 1 (in magenta) and site 2 (in red) residues with the receptor's αCT and L1 surfaces. See table 1 of reference 40 for more detailed description of the contacts. Drawn by Marek Brzozowski using the CCP4MG programme. PDB file: 4OGA. From reference 40, used with permission. QUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS OF THE INSULIN-RECEPTOR BINDING PARAMETERS: THE HARMONIC OSCILLATOR MODEL The complexity of the ligand binding kinetics to the insulin and IGF-I receptors (negative cooperativity and ligand concentration dependence of the dissociation rate), in the absence of a precise understanding of the molecular mechanisms involved, had precluded for many years the development of a reliable mathematical model, although computer programs were available to approximate "high and low" affinity constants. The alternative crosslinking model proposed by De Meyts in 1994 (44), together with progress in the structural analysis of the receptors, resulted in a physically plausible, structure-based model, proposed by Vladislav Kiselyov et al. in 2009 (64), based on the concept of a harmonic oscillator. This model postulates that the tetrade of sites 1 and 2 on each a-subunit, disposed as proposed (44) in an antiparallel fashion, spontaneusly oscillate between the open and closed conformations. This allows the ligand, bound either to site 1 or site 2, to crosslink the oscillator, creating high affinity and slowing down the dissociation rate. Alternative crosslinking to the second set of sites will result in acceleration of ligand dissociation from the first crosslinked pair. This allows for a simplification of the number of intermediary states involved (Fig. 7). The system can be described with only 5 parameters: a1 and a2, the association rate constants to
