The Insulin Receptor and Its Signal Transduction Network
KEYWORDS: insulin, receptor, insulin receptor, binding, kinase, signaling, structure, cell, domain, tyrosine, site, glucose, protein, igf-i, activation


allows for a simplification of the number of intermediary states involved (Fig. 7). The system can be described with only 5 parameters: a1 and a2, the association rate constants to receptor sites 1 and 2, d1 and d2, the respective dissociation rates, and kcr, a crosslinking constant that is the reciprocal of the time it takes the oscillator to close. The overall reaction scheme can be described by 33 differential equations (plus two to account for the small degree of endocytosis and exocytosis in the cells), which can be easily fitted by computer software like Mathematica. A detailed description of the method is beyond the scope of this chapter, but suffices to say that it allows a robust estimation of the equilibrium and kinetic parameters for both insulin and IGF-I receptors (Table 1), that we have applied to evaluate the binding properties of a variety of insulin analogues, as well as to the kinetic parameters of the two insulin receptor isoforms (65). The take home message here is that the insulin receptor binding mechanism creates a high affinity site with a Kd of about 0.2 nM by crosslinking two partial binding sites with Kds of 6.0 and 400 nM (with similar values for the IGF-I receptor). Figure 7 Simplified scheme of the intermediary binding reactions in the harmonic oscillator model. The circles marked S1 and S2 symbolize the two insulin receptor binding sites, in a symmetrical antiparallel disposition. The insulin molecule is symbolized by a black dot. a1 and a2: association rate constants for sites 1 and 2 respectively. d1 and d2: dissociation rate constants for sites 1 and 2 respectively. kcr: crosslinking constant. see text for explanations. From reference 64, used with permission. From reference 64, used with permission. STRUCTURE OF THE INSULIN RECEPTOR TYROSINE KINASE The crystal structure of the insulin receptor tyrosine kinase domain was solved by Stevan Hubbard and colleagues, both in the inactive state (66) and in the activated state (in the presence of a peptide substrate, a stable ATP analogue and Mg 2+ (67) (Fig. 8). The corresponding structures for the IGF-I receptor kinase were subsequently solved (68, 69). Like in all kinases, the architecture features two structurally distinct lobes, the N-terminal lobe and the C-terminal lobe (Fig. 8), which form the catalytic site of the kinase where ATP, bivalent cations and the substrate tyrosine residue get together. The two lobes are linked by
