The Insulin Receptor and Its Signal Transduction Network
KEYWORDS: insulin, receptor, insulin receptor, binding, kinase, signaling, structure, cell, domain, tyrosine, site, glucose, protein, igf-i, activation


the C-terminal lobe (Fig. 8), which form the catalytic site of the kinase where ATP, bivalent cations and the substrate tyrosine residue get together. The two lobes are linked by a linker region that forms a hinge which enables the relative motion of the two lobes. The structures revealed a novel autoinhibition mechanism (described in Fig. 8) whereby an "activation loop" behaves as a pseudosubstrate that blocks the active site in the basal state (closed configuration) and is stabilised in the open position after transphosphorylation of three tyrosines. More recent data (70) have shown that the activated insulin and IGF-I receptor kinases are functional dimers, and that, in addition to the activation loop phosphorylation, an allosteric stabilization takes place involving an exchange of the juxtamembrane regions proximal to the kinase domain. For review of the structural aspects of the insulin receptor and other kinases, see references 19 and 71, 72. Figure 8 Structure of the inactive and activated insulin receptor tyrosine kinase (with bound ATP analogue AMP-PNP, peptide substrate and Mg2+). This figure illustrates the autoinhibition mechanism whereby Tyr 1162, one of the three tyrosines that are autophosphorylated in the activation loop (shown in white) in response to insulin (1158, 1162, 1163) is bound in the active site, hydrogen bonded to a conserved Asp 1132 in the catalytic loop (left). Tyr 1162 in effect competes with protein substrates before autophosphorylation. In the activated state (right), the activation loop is tris-phosphorylated and moves out of the active site. Tyr 1163 becomes hydrogen-bonded to a conserved Arg 1155 in the beginning of the activation loop, which stabilizes the repositioned loop. Also shown is the peptide substrate with the WMXM motif. From reference 25. MECHANISM OF INSULIN RECEPTOR ACTIVATION BY LIGAND BINDING Despite the considerable recent progress in the structures of the extracellular and kinase domains of the insulin (and to a lesser extent IGF-I) receptors, no structure of the complete unliganded and liganded receptors is available, and therefore we lack the details of the precise mechanism whereby extracellular ligand binding results in approximation and activation of the kinase domains. The distance between the membrane insertions of the stems of the extracellular domain of the insulin apo receptor is ~120 Å. This is too far away for the kinase domains to be approximated if they are held close to the stems and the distance is maintained in the activated receptor. Ward et al.
