The Insulin Receptor and Its Signal Transduction Network
KEYWORDS: insulin, receptor, insulin receptor, binding, kinase, signaling, structure, cell, domain, tyrosine, site, glucose, protein, igf-i, activation


too far away for the kinase domains to be approximated if they are held close to the stems and the distance is maintained in the activated receptor. Ward et al. have speculated (32) that a ligand-induced conformational change causes the descent of the kinase domains (like a yo yo) from a constrained position where they are partially wrapped up by the juxtamembrane region and lie near the membrane. This release allows the kinases to approximate and transphosphorylate (Fig. 9A). This model is partially supported by the 3D structure of a juxtamembrane inhibited kinase domain (73). In contrast with this model, Lee et al. (74) suggested that insulin binding prises apart the transmembrane domains in a receptor where they are held close together in the inactive receptor (Fig. 9B). This is based on the finding that a 24-residue peptide having the IR transmembrane domain sequence (but not the IGF-IR sequence) activated the IR tyrosine kinase. There were no structural studies to back up this claim. A mechanism quite different from the above that is backed up by convincing structural and biochemical data, was proposed by Kavran et al (75). They concluded that the molecular mechanism for IR/IGF1R activation involves separation of the transmembrane domains enforced by the unliganded extracellular domains, which maintains the receptors in an inhibited state (i.e. the opposite of the mechanism proposed by Lee et al .(74)). Ligand binding relieves the inhibition by disrupting the L1-FnIII2'-3' interaction that stabilizes the transmembrane domain separation, freeing the transmembrane domains to associate, and allowing autophosphorylation of the kinase domains [Fig. 9C). In their view, ligand binding does not stimulate the kinase activity of the phosphorylated receptor. In other words, the role of the IR/IGF1R extracellular domain is to inhibit activity in the absence of ligand rather than promote activity in the presence of ligand. Finally, Maruyama (24) has recently proposed a common mechanism for all dimeric transmembrane receptors whereby ligand binding to the extracellular domain of receptor dimers induces a rotation of transmembrane domains, followed by rearrangement and/or activation of intracellular domains (the "rotation model", Fig. 9D) Figure 9 Models of the mechanism of ligand activation of the insulin receptor tyrosine kinase. A: The "yo-yo" model. From ref. 14. B: The TM domain ligand-induced separation model. From ref. 74. C: The TM domain ligand-induced approximation model. From ref. 75. D. The "rotation model". From reference 24, used with permission. Figure adapted
