The Insulin Receptor and Its Signal Transduction Network
KEYWORDS: insulin, receptor, insulin receptor, binding, kinase, signaling, structure, cell, domain, tyrosine, site, glucose, protein, igf-i, activation


TM domain ligand-induced separation model. From ref. 74. C: The TM domain ligand-induced approximation model. From ref. 75. D. The "rotation model". From reference 24, used with permission. Figure adapted from reference 40, used with permission. See text for explanation. THE INTRACELLULAR INSULIN RECEPTOR SIGNAL TRANSDUCTION NETWORK Following the activation of the insulin receptor tyrosine kinase by triphosphorylation of its activation loop, the kinase phosphorylates tyrosine residues outside the kinase domain of the receptor which creates binding sites for signaling protein partners containing SH2 (src-homology 2) domains (76) or PTB (phosphotyrosine- binding) domains. Unlike other RTKs, the insulin (and IGF-I) receptors do not bind signaling proteins directly, but instead bind to the phosphorylated juxtamembrane domain residue Tyr 960 (IR--A numbering) a family of large docking proteins called IRS (Insulin receptor substrate)1-6, the first of which was cloned in 1991 (77, 78), as well as the adapter Shc (Src homology 2 domain containing) (79). These form the nucleus for the assembly of a signal transduction particle that is the starting hub of the various intracellular signaling cascades. A detailed inventory of all the signaling proteins involved in insulin signal transduction pathways (Fig. 10) is beyond the scope of this review. For more detailed reviews see refs. 1, 80-84. Figure 10 The canonical insulin receptor signal transduction network. The two major canonical insulin receptor signaling cascades (PI3K and ERK) are shown. The critical nodes (IR/IRS, PI3K, AKT) are boxed. Crosstalk from IGF-I receptor, cytokine receptors and TNFα is indicated. Negative regulation by PTP1B and PTEN is shown. See text and reference 83 for detailed explanation. From reference 82, used with permission. In order to apprehend the organisation of the complex insulin signaling network, a useful concept is that of "critical nodes" (82). The three best studied nodes are the insulin receptor/IRS complex, PI3 kinase (PI3K) and AKT/PKB. Most insulin effects appear to be mediated through the interaction of IRS-1 and -2, and Shc, with the insulin receptor (81, 82, 85). Other docking proteins like CBL, APS, SH2B, GAB1 and-2 and DOCK1 and-2 have been less extensively studied (81). IRS proteins contain an N-terminal pleckstrin homology (PH) domain (which attaches to the plasma membrane phospholipids) adjacent to a PTB domain that binds to a phosphorylated NPXY (Y 960) motif in the receptor's juxtamembrane domain. The central and C-terminal parts of the IRS proteins contain up to 20 potential phosphorylation sites that when phosphorylated
