The Insulin Receptor and Its Signal Transduction Network
KEYWORDS: insulin, receptor, insulin receptor, binding, kinase, signaling, structure, cell, domain, tyrosine, site, glucose, protein, igf-i, activation


a phosphorylated NPXY (Y 960) motif in the receptor's juxtamembrane domain. The central and C-terminal parts of the IRS proteins contain up to 20 potential phosphorylation sites that when phosphorylated by the insulin receptor bind to signaling proteins that contain SH2 domains. The two main pathways of insulin signaling emanating from the insulin receptor-IRS node are the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K, a lipid kinase)/AKT (also known as PKB or protein kinase B) pathway (86,87) and the Raf/Ras/MEK/ MAPK (mitogen activated protein kinase, also known as ERK or extracellular signal regulated kinase) pathway (88). The PI3K pathway is responsible for most metabolic effects of insulin, and is connected exclusively through IRS, while the MAPK pathway emanates from both IRS and Shc and is involved in the regulation of gene expression and, in cooperation with the PI3K pathway, in the control of cell growth ("mitogenesis") and differentiation (82). The PI3K Signaling Pathway Activation of the PI3K pathway is triggered by the binding of the p85 or p55 regulatory subunit of PI3K (an adapter which has 8 isoforms) to IRS1 and-2, resulting in activation of the p110 catalytic subunit (which has three isoforms) and generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-triphosphate (PIP3), which leads to activation of the three isoforms of AKT/PKB by PDK (phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase) 1 and -2 (Fig. 10). PDKs bind to PIP3 in the cell membrane and become thereby activated (82, 86, 87). Four of the critical downstream substrates of AKT/PKB are mTOR, mammalian target of rapamycin, involved in the regulation of protein synthesis (89); GSK3 (glycogen synthase kinase 3), involved in the regulation of glycogen synthesis (90); FoxO (forkhead box-containing protein, O subfamily) transcription factors, especially FoxO1, involved in the regulation of gluconeogenic and adipogenic genes (91) and AS160 (AKT substrate of 160kDa), involved in glucose transport (92) (Figs.10 and 11). mTOR is a serine/threonine kinase that acts as a nutrient sensor; it is the catalytic subunit of two structurally distinct complexes,mTORC1 and mTORC2. It stimulates protein synthesis by phosphorylating eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E-binding protein 1 (4EBP1) and p70 ribosomal protein S6 kinase (p70S6K). GSK3 is a serine/ threonine protein kinase that inhibits glycogen synthase (but is also involved in other cellular processes); it is inhibited when phosphorylated by AKT/PKB. FoxO1 is a transcription factor that translocates to the nucleus in the absence of insulin signal, and stimulates the expression of genes such as PEPCK (phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase), the key enzyme in gluconeogenesis
