The Insulin Receptor and Its Signal Transduction Network
KEYWORDS: insulin, receptor, insulin receptor, binding, kinase, signaling, structure, cell, domain, tyrosine, site, glucose, protein, igf-i, activation


a transcription factor that translocates to the nucleus in the absence of insulin signal, and stimulates the expression of genes such as PEPCK (phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase), the key enzyme in gluconeogenesis (82), as well as cyclin G2, an atypical cyclin that blocks the cell cycle and is inhibited by insulin (93), and appears to play a key role in insulin (and IGF-I)-induced mitogenesis. FoxO1 is sequestered in the cytoplasm when phosphorylated by AKT. FoxO1 is highly conserved in evolution and, under the name daf16 , plays a major role in metabolism and longevity in C. elegans (91) . AS 160 is a 160-kD AKT substrate that plays a key role in insulin-stimulated glucose transport (1, 92). This is discussed in some detail in the next section. The MAPK-ERK Signaling Pathway Grb2 is an adapter protein that binds to IRS and Shc, and exists in a complex with SOS (son of sevenless), a guanyl nucleotide exchange factor that promotes GDP/GTP exchange on the small G protein p21 ras (94). This in turn activates the cascade of serine/threonine kinases Raf/MEK/ ERK1-2. Phosphorylated ERK 1-2 translocate to the nucleus if the signal is of sufficient duration and phosphorylates there an array of transcription factors and mitogen- and stress- activated protein kinases (1, 88). INSULIN REGULATION OF GLUT4 TRANSLOCATION The prototypical metabolic effect of insulin is the stimulation of glucose transport in adipose tissue and skeletal and cardiac muscle (1, 8, 83). Glucose disposal into muscle is the major component of insulin action that prevents postprandial hyperglycemia. This is accomplished through the translocation by exocytosis of the insulin-sensitive glucose transporter GLUT4 from intracellular vesicles to the plasma membrane, by a mechanism that is still far from completely understood (for review see 95, 96). GLUT4 is one of 13 human glucose transporter isoforms (GLUTs) with 12 membrane-spanning domains, and is highly expressed in adipose tissue and skeletal muscle. GLUTs catalyze hexose transport across cell membranes through an ATP-independent, facilitative diffusion mechanism. GLUT4 has the unique characteristic of a mostly intracellular disposition in the unstimulated state, in storage vesicles called GSVs that are acutely redistributed in the plasma membrane in response to insulin and other stimuli like exercise (96). The major insulin signaling pathway involved in GSVs translocation is the PI3K/PDK1/AKT2 pathway, through phosphorylation of the AS160 substrate (Fig. 11). AS160 is a GTPase-activating protein that when phosphorylated activates small G proteins called RAB that are involved
