The Insulin Receptor and Its Signal Transduction Network
KEYWORDS: insulin, receptor, insulin receptor, binding, kinase, signaling, structure, cell, domain, tyrosine, site, glucose, protein, igf-i, activation


translocation is the PI3K/PDK1/AKT2 pathway, through phosphorylation of the AS160 substrate (Fig. 11). AS160 is a GTPase-activating protein that when phosphorylated activates small G proteins called RAB that are involved in membrane traficking, by blocking the exchange of GTP for GDP. Atypical Protein kinases C (PKCs) isoforms appear to be also involved downstream of PDK1 but not through AKT. A parallel signaling pathway (95) in 3T3L1 adipocytes, emanating from caveolae and lipid rafts has been proposed, that involves the phosphorylation of the adaptor protein Cbl by the insulin receptor, and results in the activation of a small G protein, TC10, a member of the Rho family which modulates actin structure. This has not been supported by siRNA-mediated gene silencing experiments (96). Besides insulin, exercise also stimulates glucose transport and GLUT4 translocation through an insulin-independent, AMK -dependent mechanism (83, 96). A much more detailed description of the mechanism of GLUT4 translocation can be found in ref. 83. Figure 11 Mechanism of insulin-stimulated glucose transport and GLUT4 translocation. This cartoon illustrates the stimulation of GLUT4 translocation from intracellular storage vesicles (GSVs) to the plasma membrane by the IRS/PDK1/AKT2/ signaling cascade, acting on the GTPase-activating protein AS160 which activates the small G protein RAB. Atypical PKCs are also involved. From reference 1, used with permission. NEGATIVE REGULATION OF INSULIN RECEPTOR SIGNALING, SIGNAL TERMINATION A multitude of mechanisms are in place to attenuate or terminate the signal induced by insulin, both at the receptor and post-receptor level (82). The insulin receptor and IRS proteins are negatively regulated by ligand-induced downregulation, by tyrosine protein phosphatases and by serine phosphorylation. Subsequent steps in the protein kinase cascades are also modulated by phosphatases. Negative feedback loops are important in the fine tuning of the network. Insulin Receptor and IRS Proteins Downregulation The inverse dependence between insulin receptor concentration at the cell membrane and ambient insulin concentration after long-term exposure was first demonstrated in vitro in human cultured cells by Gavin et al. in 1974 (97). This was shown to be due to clathrin-dependent endocytosis, a mechanism that involves a dileucine motif in the receptor juxtamembrane domain (98). Receptors are then sorted in endosomes for recycling or degradation in the lysosomes (for a more detailed review of the mechanisms involved, see ref. 99). This regulatory mechanism has subsequently been extended to the whole class of RTKs (100). In a systems perspective, receptor endocytosis is seen as a major
