The Insulin Receptor and Its Signal Transduction Network
KEYWORDS: insulin, receptor, insulin receptor, binding, kinase, signaling, structure, cell, domain, tyrosine, site, glucose, protein, igf-i, activation


mechanisms involved, see ref. 99). This regulatory mechanism has subsequently been extended to the whole class of RTKs (100). In a systems perspective, receptor endocytosis is seen as a major negative feedback circuit acting on the input signaling layer (101). Insulin internalization is however not just a mechanism of signal termination since it has been shown that signal transduction continues from the internalized receptor until stopped by phosphatases (99), and it may be essential for Shc activation of the Ras-ERK cascade (102, see reference 104 for review). Hyperinsulinemia also decreases the expression of IRS1 and IRS2 in both cultured cells and in the tissues of mice, which has been linked to insulin resistance in animal models (82). This is due both to increased degradation (by ubiquitination) and decreased synthesis (82). Serine phosphorylation of IRS Proteins IRS1 has over 70 potential serine phosphorylation sites, the phosphorylation of which in general seems to negatively regulate IRS signaling (82, 104). Many of the IRS kinases such as ERK, S6 kinase and c-Jun-N-terminal kinase (JNK) are activated by insulin, suggesting that IRS serine phosphorylation is a negative feedback mechanism in the insulin signaling network (82). The TNFa receptor, involved primarily in apoptosis and inflammation, induces the serine phosphorylation of IRS1 through JNK (82, Fig. 10) and induces insulin resistance in humans, animals and in vitro (105). Dephosphorylation of Insulin Signaling Proteins by Protein Phosphatases and Phospholipid Phosphatases Constitutively active phosphatases induce a major attenuation of signals within the processing core of RTK signaling networks (101). Vanadate and related compounds inhibit protein tyrosine phosphatases and increase the tyrosyl phosphorylation of the insulin receptor and intracellular substrates, and act as insulin mimetics (106). The major and most studied protein tyrosine phosphatase acting on the insulin receptor is PTP1B. It resides in the endoplasmic reticulum and dephosphorylates the insulin receptor during internalization and recycling to the plasma membrane (107, 108). Mice lacking PTP1B show increased insulin sensitivity and improved glucose tolerance (109, 110). The dephosphorylation of downstream substrates is done by serine/threonine phosphatases (111) and in the case of ERK/MAPK by dual specificity phosphatases (112). The activity of the PI3K pathway is also negatively regulated at the level of PIP3 by phospholipid phosphatases such as the phosphatase and tensin homologue (PTEN, a tumour suppressor) and SH2-containing inositol 5'-phosphatase-2 (SHIP2), which dephosphorylate and inactivate PIP3. PTEN dephosphorylates phosphoinositides on the 3'-position whereas SHIP2 does it on the 5'-position
