The Insulin Receptor and Its Signal Transduction Network
KEYWORDS: insulin, receptor, insulin receptor, binding, kinase, signaling, structure, cell, domain, tyrosine, site, glucose, protein, igf-i, activation


and tensin homologue (PTEN, a tumour suppressor) and SH2-containing inositol 5'-phosphatase-2 (SHIP2), which dephosphorylate and inactivate PIP3. PTEN dephosphorylates phosphoinositides on the 3'-position whereas SHIP2 does it on the 5'-position (82, 113). Other attenuators of insulin receptor signaling: suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) proteins, growth-factor-receptor-bound protein 10/14 (Grb10/14) and plasma-cell membrane glycoprotein-1 (PC-1) Insulin receptor signaling is also attenuated by suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) proteins, which are mediators of cytokine receptor signaling (like leptin and IL-6 receptors) through Janus kinases (JAK) and signal transduction and activation of transcription (STAT) proteins (114, 115, Fig 10). SOCS 1, -3, -6 and -7 disrupt insulin signaling through binding to the insulin receptor and/or by targeting IRS-1 and IRS-2 for proteasomal degradation (115). The adaptors Grb10/Grb14, which bind to the insulin (and IGF-I) receptor kinase activation loop, also attenuate receptor signaling (116). Interestingly the related adaptors SH2B1/B2 have the opposite effect (116). Finally, insulin receptor signaling is inhibited by PC-1, also known as the enzyme ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase (ENPP1), and this was shown to be dependent on its enzymatic activity (117). Negative Regulation of PI3K and Insulin Action by the PI3K Regulatory Subunit In addition to its role as a positive regulator of PI3K function, the regulatory subunit paradoxically also has a role as a negative regulator since knockouts of this subunit can improve insulin sensitivity. The putative mechanisms are discussed in ref.83. CLINICAL IMPLICATIONS OF THE INSULIN RECEPTOR AND SIGNAL TRANSDUCTION NETWORK Type 2 diabetes has in recent years reached epidemic proportions, with a total number recently revised upwards by WHO to 422 million type 2 diabetic adults worldwide, driven by the obesity epidemics, surpassing the most pessimistic earlier predictions. Type 2 diabetes is a complex and heterogeneous syndrome, with combinatorial effects of various genetic determinants ("diabetogenes") and lifestyle and environmental factors (118, 119). It combines alterations in overall insulin sensitivity (the so-called insulin resistance) and alterations in beta cell production and secretion of insulin in response to elevated glucose. There is no consensus as to the relative impact of both defects in "causing" type 2 diabetes, nor in the precise succession of molecular events at the tissue and cellular level leading to the development of full-blown diabetes. With the considerable progress in unravelling the insulin receptor signaling network in recent years, numerous studies have addressed the possible dysregulation of this network in causing insulin resistance both in vivo and in vitro ,
