The Insulin Receptor and Its Signal Transduction Network
KEYWORDS: insulin, receptor, insulin receptor, binding, kinase, signaling, structure, cell, domain, tyrosine, site, glucose, protein, igf-i, activation


unravelling the insulin receptor signaling network in recent years, numerous studies have addressed the possible dysregulation of this network in causing insulin resistance both in vivo and in vitro , in cell lines, animal models as well as in humans. In particular, gene invalidation and transgenic approaches in mice have been used extensively to explore the role of individual players in the signaling network, alone or in combination, in the maintenance of normal insulin sensitivity, as well as, for some, in normal beta cell function. It is fair to say that although through these studies we have learned a lot about the role of individual signaling pathways and molecules in cell function and overall metabolic regulation in rodents, a clear picture has not emerged as to what molecular defect(s) precisely causes insulin resistance in human obese and type 2 diabetic patients, nor as to what is the relative impact of insulin resistance versus beta cell dysfunction in humans. I will therefore not attempt here to provide an encyclopedic description of the extensive gene knockout and transgenic studies, but only stress a few salient and intriguing features; see ref. 120 for a more detailed review of early studies and the excellent and detailed up-to-date chapter by Morris White (83). The importance of the insulin receptor in metabolic homeostasis was clearly demonstrated by the finding of various compound heterozygous insulin receptor mutations (about 60 so far) in human syndromes associated with extreme insulin resistance: type A insulin resistance with acanthosis nigricans, leprechaunism, Rabson Mendenhall syndrome (121) and in two siblings with congenital fiber-type dysproportion myopathy (122). Depending on the location of the mutation in the receptor structure, the functional consequences have been ranked in 5 categories (121): 1) impaired synthesis, 2) impaired transport to the plasma membrane, 3) impaired insulin binding, 4) impaired transmembrane signaling and 5) impaired endocytosis, recycling and degradation. The complete knockout of the two alleles of the insulin receptor in mice led to major metabolic alterations soon after suckling. They were born with moderate growth impairment (-5%). They developed a marked postnatal growth retardation and skeletal muscle hypotrophy and died within a week after birth of acute diabetic ketoacidosis (120, 123, 124). Reported cases of human patients with homozygous insulin receptor deletion are exceptional, likely due to embryonic lethality. Interestingly though, the four cases reported over 20 years ago (125-128) showed a milder phenotype (leprechaunism) than the mice
