The Insulin Receptor and Its Signal Transduction Network
KEYWORDS: insulin, receptor, insulin receptor, binding, kinase, signaling, structure, cell, domain, tyrosine, site, glucose, protein, igf-i, activation


homozygous insulin receptor deletion are exceptional, likely due to embryonic lethality. Interestingly though, the four cases reported over 20 years ago (125-128) showed a milder phenotype (leprechaunism) than the mice double knockouts and lived several months to a year after birth like most leprechauns, showing that in humans life is compatible with lack of insulin receptors. This points to the fact that one has to be careful in extrapolating findings with rodent genetic manipulations to conclusions regarding pathophysiology in humans. Following the demonstration in cell culture of insulin receptor downregulation in the presence of increased insulin concentrations in the culture medium in vitro in 1974 (97), studies showed that the insulin receptor was also downregulated in vivo in hyperinsulinemic resistant states in animal models ( ob/hob mice, db/db mice , mice treated with gold thioglucose, or the Koletsky rat) (129 - 131) as well as in circulating monocytes (132) or adipocytes (133) of obese humans, although some human studies dissented (134, 135). This led to the notion that receptor downregulation in vivo was a major determinant of insulin resistance. However, it was later shown that heterozygous null mutants (IR +/- ) for the insulin receptor that had only half the normal complement of receptors did not present with any major metabolic abnormalities and had normal glucose tolerance following an intraperitoneal glucose tolerance test, and had normal insulin levels (123), strongly suggesting that downregulation of the insulin receptor alone is not sufficient to cause insulin resistance, and that postreceptor defects may be required, as had been previously suggested (136). Obvious candidates for a postreceptor defect in insulin resistance are the IRS proteins, considering the critical role of this node in both insulin and IGF-I signal transduction (82). Defects in muscle IRS1 expression and function have been reported in insulin-resistant states such as obesity and type 2 diabetes (reviewed in 137). Surprisingly, the homozygous deletion of IRS1 in mice by two different groups (138, 139) induced a rather moderate metabolic phenotype with no type 2 diabetes, normal fasting glycemia, and normal glucose tolerance in one case (138) but significant hyperglycemia after intraperitoneal glucose load in the other (139). A mild degree of insulin (and IGF-I) resistance was found in both studies. Both showed marked intra-uterine and postnatal growth retardation. In contrast, mice with homologous deletion of IRS2 (140) were 10% smaller and mildly insulin resistant at birth, but developed a marked glucose
