The Insulin Receptor and Its Signal Transduction Network
KEYWORDS: insulin, receptor, insulin receptor, binding, kinase, signaling, structure, cell, domain, tyrosine, site, glucose, protein, igf-i, activation


showed marked intra-uterine and postnatal growth retardation. In contrast, mice with homologous deletion of IRS2 (140) were 10% smaller and mildly insulin resistant at birth, but developed a marked glucose intolerance and had full-blown diabetes at 10 weeks with both marked insulin resistance and beta cell deficiency.(more than two-fold decrease in beta cell mass as early as 4 weeks) with decreased insulin secretion in response to glucose. These and further data demonstrated that IRS2 plays a critical integrative role in pancreatic beta cell plasticity and function (for review see references 1, 83), and support the concept that the beta cell is not only the source of insulin, but an important target of its actions (141). Tissue-specific knockout of the insulin receptor gene in the b cell caused a defect in their early secretory response similar to that in type 2 diabetes (142). Among the numerous total or tissue-specific knockouts of insulin pathway components, I will just stress a few of the unexpected results that challenged our current wisdom regarding diabetes pathophysiology: As already mentioned, the targeted disruption of the p85 regulatory subunit of PI3K paradoxically caused hypoglycemia due to increased sensitivity and increased basal and insulin-stimulated glucose disposal in peripheral tissues with a preferential localization of GLUT4 in the plasma membrane (143, 144, see reference 82 for review). Surprisingly, homozygous deletion of GLUT4 did not produce a diabetic phenotype (145), Females had normal glucose levels in fasted and fed state while males had a 34% lower fasting glucose and 20% increase in fed glycemia. Both sexes were insulin resistant and hyperinsulinemic, showed growth retardation and had disturbed lipid metabolism. They had a shorter life span linked to significant cardiac hypertrophy. 70% of insulin-induced glucose disposal goes to skeletal muscle. Tissue-specific knockout of the insulin receptor in skeletal muscle (MIRKO, 146) resulted as expected in a marked reduction of insulin-stimulated glucose transport in skeletal muscle. Surprisingly, the animals showed no hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia or evidence for any impairment of glucose homeostasis. They had disturbed lipid metabolism. Also somewhat counter-intuitively, mice with tissue-specific insulin receptor knockout in adipose tissue (FIRKO, 147) showed a markedly reduced fat mass and whole-body triglyceride stores and were protected from gold thioglucose-induced and age related obesity as well as from the obesity associated glucose intolerance. Finally, the third major target tissue for insulin, the liver, was also targeted by tissue-specific knockout of the insulin receptor (148). The liver
