The Insulin Receptor and Its Signal Transduction Network
KEYWORDS: insulin, receptor, insulin receptor, binding, kinase, signaling, structure, cell, domain, tyrosine, site, glucose, protein, igf-i, activation


as from the obesity associated glucose intolerance. Finally, the third major target tissue for insulin, the liver, was also targeted by tissue-specific knockout of the insulin receptor (148). The liver accounts for 30% of the disposal of an oral glucose load through glucose uptake (insulin independent) and storage into glycogen, and accounts for the major part of insulin clearance through receptor-mediated endocytosis. The knockout mice showed severe primary insulin resistance and a defect in insulin clearance. Thus isolated liver insulin resistance is sufficient to cause severe defects in glucose homeostasis. The mice also developed alterations in liver function and cellular morphology. I will not review here the extensive work done in knocking out the insulin receptor in non-classical target tissues (the beta cell has been discussed above), except to mention the critical finding based on neuron-specific knockout mice that the insulin receptor in the brain (the presence of which was reported years earlier (149.150)) plays an important role in the control of body weight and reproduction (151). Thus from all these studies, the hepatocyte and the b cell have emerged as the major insulin-responsive cells where loss of insulin signaling induces the major phenotypic alterations in glucose homeostasis found in type 2 diabetes. Major efforts have been devoted in recent years by large consortia to pick potential human diabetogenes in human type 2 diabetes by genome-wide association scans (GWAS). So far at least 70 established susceptibility loci have been defined that account for at most 10% of the familial aggregation, most of which pointing to b cell dysfunction rather than insulin resistance (for review see reference 152). No smoking gun has been detected in insulin signalling with the recent exception of Grb14 discussed above as a negative regulator of insulin signaling (153). CONCLUSIONS AND PERSPECTIVES Much progress has occurred in the past decade in solving the structure of the insulin receptor extracellular domain, and, a decade earlier, the structure of the tyrosine kinase domain. The structure of the major binding interface between insulin and the receptor (site 1) has also been resolved. We are still lacking critical structural information regarding the architecture of site 2, as well as to the mechanistic aspects of the allosteric change that links ligand binding to tyrosine kinase activation. Also, since the cloning of IRS1 25 years ago, a detailed picture of the intracellular signal transduction network has emerged and some of the critical nodes
