The Insulin Receptor and Its Signal Transduction Network
KEYWORDS: insulin, receptor, insulin receptor, binding, kinase, signaling, structure, cell, domain, tyrosine, site, glucose, protein, igf-i, activation


to tyrosine kinase activation. Also, since the cloning of IRS1 25 years ago, a detailed picture of the intracellular signal transduction network has emerged and some of the critical nodes defined. A major conundrum remains, the molecular basis of signaling specificity when different ligands, like insulin, insulin mimetic peptides, IGF-I and IGF-II, utilise pretty much the same signaling pathways through their respective receptors to induce different biological effects, and even sometimes while binding to the same receptor (103, 154). Progress in the systems biology of signal transduction is needed to fully understand the combinatorial nature of signaling specificity. Another conundrum resides in the still unresolved classical dichotomy between insulin resistance and b cell dysregulation as the major cause of the metabolic alterations of type 2 diabetes. As mentioned above, both massive insulin resistance and glucose intolerance are associated with loss of insulin signaling in the liver and an insulin secretion defect results from loss of insulin signaling in the b cell. New concepts are emerging that both may result from common mechanisms, the loss of powerful signal integrators that are IRS2 (1) and FOXO1 in both the beta cell and the liver (155). In his aptly called "new biology of diabetes", Mimmo Accili has recently proposed a plausible liver- and b cell-centric hypothesis of diabetes pathophysiology linked to progressive loss of FOXO function. FOXO integrates a surprisingly diverse array of biological functions in both the liver and the b cell. In the liver, FOXO prevents excessive glucose production and increased lipid synthesis and secretion. In the b cell, FOXO is required to maintain b cell differentiation. Diabetes progression involves a gradual loss of FOXO function that results in b cell dedifferentiation (156, 157), which is proposed to be the principal cause of b cell failure and conversion to non b endocrine cells. This unifying hypothesis will be exciting to follow-up on since it has major implications for the design of new therapies for the 442 million people who suffer from type 2 diabetes. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS I am grateful to Mike Lawrence for providing the PDB file Model-S1 2, and to him and Colin Ward for many enlightening discussions; to Marek Brzozowski for drawing Figure 6 and for fruitful collaboration; to Mike Weiss for many productive interactions and for suggesting me as writer of this chapter; to many of the authors and collaborators cited in the reference list for networking and friendships
