Heart failure diagnosis and investigation
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, ejection, fraction, ejection fraction, disease, reduced, symptoms, suspected, people, cardiac, chronic, nt-probnp, suspected heart


Heart failure is a clinical syndrome resulting in a reduced cardiac output and/or ele- vated intracardiac pressures at rest or during stress. characterised by: Typical symptoms: shortness of breath, fatigue, ankle swelling. Typical signs: tachycardia, tachypnoea, pulmonary rales, pleural effusion, raised jugular venous pressure (JVP), peripheral oedema, hepatomegaly. Objective evidence of a structural or functional abnormality of the heart at rest: cardiomegaly, third heart sound, cardiac murmurs, echocardiogram abnormali- ties, raised natriuretic peptide concentration. The European Society of Cardiology (ESC) guidelines require that there be symp- toms, signs and objective evidence present before a diagnosis of heart failure can be made.[1] Heart failure has a number of different aetiologies (see 'Aetiology', be- low) - always try to determine the cause. Heart failure should never be the only diag- nosis, as it is a syndrome occurring as a result of other diagnostic entities. Classification of heart failure Acute and chronic Heart failure has traditionally been described as acute heart failure or chronic heart failure, but this can be confusing and should be used to describe time, rather than severity. Acute heart failure can present as new-onset heart failure in people without known cardiac dysfunction, or as acute decompensation of chronic heart failure. NICE divides heart failure into two entities in this way, with separate guidelines for acute and chronic heart failure.[2] [3] The first is essentially aimed at an acute ad- mission in secondary care, whereas the second concentrates more on diagnosis of the longer-standing condition in primary care and referral on to a specialist sec- ondary care service, and the subsequent management there and follow-up in the community. The ESC guideline addresses acute and chronic heart failure together within one document.[1] Ejection fraction[1] [3] The left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) is the percentage of the blood in the left ventricle which is pumped out with each heartbeat. It is measured on transthoracic echocardiography, and also can be assessed by MRI, transoesophageal echocar- diography and nuclear medicine scans. Heart failure has been grouped by severity based on the measurement of left ven- tricular ejection fraction (LVEF). This was based on the original treatment trials in heart failure that demonstrated substantially improved outcomes in patients with 2/12 LVEF above 40%. The European Society of Cardiology heart failure guideline uses the following classification of heart failure: Reduced LVEF (HFrEF): 40% or less; significant reduction in LV systolic function. Mildly reduced LV systolic function
