Heart failure diagnosis and investigation
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, ejection, fraction, ejection fraction, disease, reduced, symptoms, suspected, people, cardiac, chronic, nt-probnp, suspected heart


Society of Cardiology heart failure guideline uses the following classification of heart failure: Reduced LVEF (HFrEF): 40% or less; significant reduction in LV systolic function. Mildly reduced LV systolic function (HFmrEF): LVEF between 41% and 49%. Preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF): 50% or higher. Heart failure is divided into: Heart failure with reduced ejection fraction : defined as heart failure with an ejection fraction less than 40%. Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction . Usually relaxation rather than con- traction of the left ventricle is affected, and ejection fraction is normal or at least above 40%. The ESC guidelines also define a heart failure with mid-range ejection fraction (HFmrEF) of 40-49%, which they consider a grey area where normal ejection fraction is 50 or more. The definition of normal varies somewhat between ex- perts, but NICE and the ESC guidelines agree on the 40% cut off for reduced vs preserved ejection fraction definitions. This distinction is clinically important, as the two main types of heart failure are rep- resentative of different causes, demographics and comorbidities, and most impor- tantly treatment is different. Other classifications Other terms have been used in the past but are no longer in use. High vs low output failure has been replaced by ejection fraction terms. Systolic and diastolic failure are similarly no longer used. Classification by severity of symptoms is discussed in the 'Staging' section later, although symptom severity does not necessarily correlate with assessment of left ventricular function. Epidemiology[3] [4] The prevalence of heart failure increases with age. The average age at first diagnosis is 76 years. In the UK, the prevalence of heart failure is estimated to be about: 3/12 1 in 35 people 65-74 years of age. 1 in 15 people 75-84 years of age. Just over 1 in 7 people 85 years of age or older. The incidence of heart failure in Europe is about 5 per 1,000 person/years in adults, and the prevalence is 1-2% in adults (1% for those under 55 years, and more than 10% for those aged over 70 years). In people with heart failure, about 50% have reduced ejection fraction and 50% have preserved or mildly reduced ejection fraction. Heart failure accounts for about 2% of all NHS hospitalised bed-days, and 5% of all NHS medical emergency admissions. Aetiology Coronary heart disease and hypertension are the most common causes of heart failure in the UK. Valvular heart
