Heart failure diagnosis and investigation
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, ejection, fraction, ejection fraction, disease, reduced, symptoms, suspected, people, cardiac, chronic, nt-probnp, suspected heart


pressure (BP), a displaced apex (LV dilatation) or RV heave (pulmonary hypertension), a narrow pulse pres- sure or pulsus alternans (alternating large and small pulse pressures) and a raised JVP. There may be a gallop rhythm due to presence of S3 (see also the separate Heart Auscultation article) or murmurs of mitral or aortic valve disease. Bilateral basal end-inspiratory crackles ± wheeze ('cardiac asthma'). Tachypnoea. Pleural effusions. Tender hepatomegaly - pulsatile in tricuspid regurgitation, with ascites. Often extensive peripheral oedema. There may be swollen ankles, sacral oede- ma or ascites. In acute failure the patient may look ill and exhausted and there may be cyanosis. The peak expiratory flow rate may be reduced but, if it is <150 litres/minute, suspect chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or asthma. 6/12 Investigations[3] Having taken a history and performed an examination then the following investiga- tions are recommended by NICE. Measure NT-proBNP A blood test to check N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) should be done in all people with heart failure. Previous NICE guidance distinguished be- tween management of those with a prior history of MI and those without, but updat- ed 2018 guidelines recommend that: All those with suspected heart failure and an NT-proBNP level >2,000 ng/L (236 pmol/L) be referred urgently, to have specialist assessment and transthoracic echocardiography within two weeks. (This is equivalent to B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP level) >400 pg/mL (116 pmol/L) where NT-proBNP is not available.) All those with suspected heart failure and an NT-proBNP level between 400 and 2,000 ng/L (47 to 236 pmol/L) are referred to have specialist assessment and transthoracic echocardiography within six weeks. (This is equivalent to a BNP level between 100-400 pg/mL (29-116 pmol/L) where NT-proBNP is not available.) ≤ If the levels are normal (NT-proBNP level <400 ng/L or BNP 100 pg/ml), heart fail- ure is unlikely and other diagnoses should be considered. If there is still clinical suspicion of heart failure, discuss with a specialist physician. Note that BNP levels can be elevated in other situations than heart failure - for example: Left ventricular hypertrophy. Ischaemia. Tachycardia. Hypoxaemia. Renal dysfunction (eGFR <60). Age over 70. Liver cirrhosis. 7/12 Sepsis. COPD. Diabetes. Note that BNP levels can be reduced in certain circumstances such as: Obesity. African-Caribbean origin. Medication - diuretics, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin-II receptor blockers, beta- blockers, mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists. ECG Arrange an ECG in all patients with suspected heart failure. This not
