Endocrine Hypertension in Childhood
KEYWORDS: hypertension, adrenal, aldosterone, patients, endocrinol, cortisol, clin, renin, deficiency, children, mineralocorticoid, treatment, excess, metab, enzyme


ABSTRACT Hypertension in children is an important health issue and deserves a greater awareness among health care providers and the general population. When evaluating a suspected hypertensive child, it is essential that clinicians utilize proper tools to measure and interpret the blood pressure (BP) readings. The preferred method is auscultation using a mercury sphygmomanometer connected to the appropriate size cuff. Systolic blood pressure (BP) is determined by the onset of the "tapping" Korotkoff sounds (K1) while diastolic DBP is defined as the fifth Korotkoff sound (K5), or the disappearance of Korotkoff sounds. Automated devices can be used for BP measurement in newborns and young infants, in whom auscultation is difficult. An elevated BP reading obtained with an oscillometric device should be repeated with auscultation. To determine percentile of BP, the values are compared to normal BP in children and adults adjusted for age, sex and height. For complete coverage of this and related areas in Endocrinology, visit our free web-books, www.endotext.org and www.thyroidmanager.org . INTRODUCTION Hypertension is defined as average systolic BP and/or diastolic BP that is ≥95th percentile for gender, age, and height on ≥3 occasions (1, 2). Regulation of systemic BP is a function of three components: intravascular volume, cardiac output and peripheral resistance. The effect(s) of steroids on one or more of these components contribute to BP control. The binding of glucocorticoids (GCs) to its receptor enhances the vascular smooth muscle response to vasopressive agents. Activation of the mineralocorticoid (MC) receptor by the ligands leads to an increase in sodium resorption which results in water retention and intravascular volume expansion. These hemodynamic changes affect peripheral resistance and cardiac output, which in turn regulates systemic BP. The human adrenal gland is composed of a cortex and a medulla. While adrenal medulla produces bioamines that act as vasopressors, the cortex secretes classes of steroids. In the cortices, there are three distinct zones, each having a characteristic steroid profile (figure 1). In the outer most unit, zona glomerulosa, MCs are produced. The main MC in a physiologic state is aldosterone. Principal regulators of aldosterone secretion are the renin-angiotensin system and the serum potassium concentration. Other regulators, such as the adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), atrial natriuretic factors of cardiac origin and local dopamine secreted within the adrenal, play minor roles. Decreases in intravascular volume result in increased secretion of renin by the renal juxtaglomerular apparatus. Renin acts as a proteolytic enzyme by
