Endocrine Hypertension in Childhood
KEYWORDS: hypertension, adrenal, aldosterone, patients, endocrinol, cortisol, clin, renin, deficiency, children, mineralocorticoid, treatment, excess, metab, enzyme


dopamine secreted within the adrenal, play minor roles. Decreases in intravascular volume result in increased secretion of renin by the renal juxtaglomerular apparatus. Renin acts as a proteolytic enzyme by cleaving angiotensinogen, and changes it to angiotensin I. Angiotensin I is then cleaved and activated by angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) in the lung and in other peripheral sites. Angiotensin II and its metabolite, angiotensin III, possess vasopressor and potent aldosterone secretory activity (figure 2). Once bound to the mineralocortiocoid receptor (MR), aldosterone enhances sodium resorption and the subsequent osmotic reabsorption of water through sodium-permeable channels in the apical membranes of the epithelial cells lining the distal tubules and collection ducts of the kidney. This results in an expanded blood volume and suppression of renin secretion. Potassium excretion also occurs as an ion exchange from the aldosterone effect. In the middle adrenal zone, zona fasiculata, GC are produced. The principal GC in humans is cortisol, which serves many physiologic roles including glucose homeostasis and vascular integrity. The hypothalamic pituitary-adrenal or HPA axis determines the threshold for circulating GC concentration. The inner zone, or zona reticuralis, is where adrenal androgens are produced (see chapter 3 in the Adrenal Physiology and Disease section). The clinical significance of its overproduction is evident in 11β-hydroxylase deficiency (11β-OHD). In this deficiency, steroid precursors proximal to the block shunted to androgen pathways which leads to virilization of the affected individual (see below). Endocrine hypertension in children is usually mediated by the MC activities of cortisol, aldosterone and adrenal steroidogenic precursors with MC activity. Frequently in these cases, elevated BP is associated with suppressed renin activity, indicating a form of hypertension related with volume-overload and salt-sensitivity. In the past few decades, considerable progress has been made toward unraveling the molecular genetics of some rare, or extremely rare, monogenic forms of hypertension (1). CONGENITAL ADRENAL HYPERPLASIA (CAH); 11Β-OHD AND 17-OHD, These include the following well-characterized disorders: two forms of -hydroxylase deficiencies, glucocorticoid-remediable hyperaldosteronism (familial hyperaldosteronism type I), apparent mineralocorticoid excess, and Liddle's Syndrome. This chapter describes the important causes of endocrine hypertension in children as well as some conditions with a similar presentation (Fig. 3). Figure 3 Monogenetic mineralocorticoid hypertension syndromes. PRA = Plasma renin activity; FH = family hy- peraldosteronism; CAH = congenital adrenal hyperplasia; DOC = deoxycortisol; F/E = cortisol/cortisone ratio. STEROID 11β- HYDROXYLASE DEFICIENCY CONGENTIAL ADRENAL HYPERPLASIA CAH is a family of disorders characterized by enzymatic defects
