Endocrine Hypertension in Childhood
KEYWORDS: hypertension, adrenal, aldosterone, patients, endocrinol, cortisol, clin, renin, deficiency, children, mineralocorticoid, treatment, excess, metab, enzyme


peraldosteronism; CAH = congenital adrenal hyperplasia; DOC = deoxycortisol; F/E = cortisol/cortisone ratio. STEROID 11β- HYDROXYLASE DEFICIENCY CONGENTIAL ADRENAL HYPERPLASIA CAH is a family of disorders characterized by enzymatic defects in one of the cortisol production steps. Steroid 11β-OHD is the second most common cause of CAH, accounting for 5-8% of all CAH cases (3). It occurs 1 in 100,00 live births (4) in the general population, but is more common in populations of North African origin (5). Deficiency of 11β-hydroxylation causes a decrease in the conversion of 11-deoxycortisol (S) and 11-deoxycorticosterone (DOC) to cortisol and corticosterone, respectively (figure 1). Reduced cortisol feedback gives rise to an increase in ACTH secretion. Excessive ACTH secretion in turns leads to overproduction of precursors proximal to the enzyme block. These precursors serve as substrates for the unimpeded androgen pathways; therefore adrenal androgen secretion is increased. Virilization and hypertension are the salient clinical features of 11β-OHD. The severity of in utero virilization of the external genitalia can vary from mild to severe, such that it is not uncommon to misassign an 11β-OHD affected female as a male (6,7). Males and females may manifest signs of androgen excess at any phase of postnatal development, including precocious pubic hair, advanced somatic and epiphyseal development, and central precocious puberty later in childhood. Without treatment, early epiphyseal maturation results in short stature. Hypertension is a less consistent feature than virilization in 11β-OHD CAH. Despite failure of aldosterone production, upstream accumulation of deoxycorticosterone (DOC), a weak MC, causes salt retention and hypertension. Hypertension is usually not identified until later in childhood or in adolescence, although its appearance in an infant 3 months of age has been documented (8). In addition, hypertension correlates variably with biochemical values, or with the degree of virilization. Some of the severely virilized females were normotensive, whereas mildly virilized patients experienced severe hypertension, leading to fatal vascular accidents (9). An unusual presentation of neonatal salt wasting has also been reported (10). The complications of long standing uncontrolled hypertension, such as cardiomyopathy, retinal vein occlusion, and blindness have been reported in 11β-OHD patients (11,12). Potassium depletion develops concomitantly with sodium retention, but hypokalemia is variable. Hormonal characteristics include elevation of compound S, DOC and androgens. Elevation of 17α-hydroxyprogesterone occurs, but not as greatly as in 21-hydroxylase deficiency (21OHD) CAH. Tetrahydro-11-deoxycortisol and tetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone, the principal metabolites of compound S and DOC, are significantly increased in the urine.
