Endocrine Hypertension in Childhood
KEYWORDS: hypertension, adrenal, aldosterone, patients, endocrinol, cortisol, clin, renin, deficiency, children, mineralocorticoid, treatment, excess, metab, enzyme


of 17α-hydroxyprogesterone occurs, but not as greatly as in 21-hydroxylase deficiency (21OHD) CAH. Tetrahydro-11-deoxycortisol and tetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone, the principal metabolites of compound S and DOC, are significantly increased in the urine. Urinary 17-ketosteroids are elevated, reflecting the raised serum levels of adrenal androgens. Renin production is suppressed secondary to MC -induced sodium retention and volume expansion. Aldosterone production is low due to low serum potassium and low plasma renin. Steroid 11β-OHD CAH is the result of autosomal recessive mutations in CYP11B1 gene. More than 50 mutations, including missense/nonsense, splicing, small/ gross deletions, insertions and complex rearrangement, which are responsible for 11β-OHD CAH have been described in CYP11B1 gene (14). A homozygous deletion of hybrid CYP11B2/CYP11B1, a reciprocal product of the recombination event as found in glucocorticoid remediable aldosteronism (GRA), leads to clinical phenotypes of neonatal salt wasting (due to diminished aldosterone synthase acitivity). This patient (10) also has 11β-OHD deficiency. Treatment Cortisol administration provides cortisol replacement and normalizes ACTH. This in turn removes the drive for oversecretion of DOC and in most cases brings about remission of hypertension, if diagnosed early in life. The goal is to replace deficient steroids while minimizing adrenal sex hormone and GC excess. Serum DOC and androgens are thus the indices of the adequate hormonal control. Plasma renin activity is also useful as a therapeutic index. In poor control cases with 11β-OHD, plasma renin is suppressed. Similar to 21OHD CAH, oral hydrocortisone is preferred, because it is identical to physiologic GC. Typical dosing is 10–15 mg/m2·d in divided doses. Long-acting GCs may be an option at or near the completion of linear growth. Titration of the dose should be aimed at maintaining androgen levels at age and sex-appropriate levels and normalization of renin. Concurrently, over-treatment should be avoided because it can lead to Cushing syndrome. Depending on the degree of stress, stress dose coverage may require doses of up to 50-100 mg/m2/day. Each family must be given injectable hydrocortisone for emergency use (at the dose of 25 mg for infants, 50 mg for young children and 100 mg for adolescents and adults, intramuscularly). In the event of surgical procedure, a total of 5-10 times the daily maintainance dose (depending on the nature of the surgical procedure) may be required over the first 24 hours. Hydrocortisone dosage can be tapered down to maintenance dose during the first few days postoperatively, provided that there is no complication. Stress
