Endocrine Hypertension in Childhood
KEYWORDS: hypertension, adrenal, aldosterone, patients, endocrinol, cortisol, clin, renin, deficiency, children, mineralocorticoid, treatment, excess, metab, enzyme


may be required over the first 24 hours. Hydrocortisone dosage can be tapered down to maintenance dose during the first few days postoperatively, provided that there is no complication. Stress dose should not be given in the form of dexamethasone because of the delayed onset of action. In children with advanced bone age, initiation of therapy may precipitate central precocious puberty, requiring treatment with a GnRH agonist. Growth hormone therapy improves height deficit in patients with poor height prediction (13). In patients with long duration of hypertension before diagnosis, additional spironolactone, calcium channel blockers or amiloride may be necessary. Reconstructive surgery of external genitalia should be performed by experienced surgeons. Prenatal diagnosis and treatment can be accomplished using extracted fetal DNA for CYP11B1 analysis (4,15,16). An established protocol of prenatal treatment in 21OHD CAH can be applied to 11β-OHD CAH (also see Chapter 8 – Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia) STEROID -17 HYDROXYLASE DEFICIENCY CONGENTIAL ADRENAL HYPERPLASIA 17-OHD results from mutations in the cytochrome P450C17 enzyme which functions both as steroid 17α-hydroxylase and as 17, 20-lyase (17). The structural gene for cytochrome P450C17 (CYP17A1) has been mapped to chromosome 10q24.3 (18). Over 50 mutations in this gene have been described. Nucleotide substitution, causing missense or nonsense alterations, accounts for the majority of the patients reported (14). It is a rare disease identified in approximately 120 patients worldwide. The enzyme deficiency causes diminished production of cortisol and sex steroids, whose production requires the 17, 20-lyase function of the same 17α- hydroxylase enzyme (Figure 1). Because both adrenals and gonads share the enzyme defect, there is decreased biosynthesis of (i) androgens, results in an undervirilized phenotype in males (46,XY) at birth, and a failure of male pubertal development. (ii) estrogen, results in females at pubertal age presenting with primary amenorrhea and lack of development of secondary sex characteristics. Reciprocal elevation of ACTH, due to low cortisol, increases synthesis of DOC and corticosterone via the unaffected 17-deoxy pathway. Therefore hypertension and hypokalemia may comprise the primary presentation at any age or can be associated with the abnormal sexual phenotype. As in 11β- OHD, the formation of aldosterone is reduced secondary to suppressed renin as a result of excess DOC. Treatment Treatment strategy in this condition is similar to other forms of CAH in term of GC replacement therapy and stress dose (see chapter 8 Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia). In addition to GC, sex hormone replacement that
