Endocrine Hypertension in Childhood
KEYWORDS: hypertension, adrenal, aldosterone, patients, endocrinol, cortisol, clin, renin, deficiency, children, mineralocorticoid, treatment, excess, metab, enzyme


is similar to other forms of CAH in term of GC replacement therapy and stress dose (see chapter 8 Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia). In addition to GC, sex hormone replacement that is appropriate to sex of rearing is indicated at a developmentally appropriate time to allow patients to resemble their peers. (See also treatment section in Chapter 11 – 46,XY Disorders of Sexual Development) GLUCOCORTICOID REMEDIABLE ALDOSTERONISM GRA, also known as familial hyperaldosteronism type I (FH I), was first described by Sutherland et al. in 1966 (19). It is an autosomal dominant form of low renin hypertension characterized by hyperaldosteronism. Aldosterone secretion is controlled by ACTH rather than angiotensin II, and for this reason, the unique distinguishing feature of GRA is the complete and rapid suppression of aldosterone by exogenous GC (dexamethasone) administration. GRA produces a volume expansion, salt-sensitive form of low renin hypertension. Variable presentation is not uncommon; hypertension is invariably present, but hypokalemia and metabolic alkalosis may be absent. The disease is characterized by early onset of moderate to severe hypertension with hyperaldosteronism and low renin values and by high incidence of premature cerebrovascular events. Additionally, children demonstrate normal growth and development, which distinguishes this disorder from 11β-OHD and apparent mineralocorticoid excess (AME) The serum aldosterone is elevated and plasma renin activity is suppressed, but the aldosterone-renin ratio is typically not as high as with primary aldosteronism (PA) caused by an aldosterone-producing adenoma. Circadian measurement of plasma steroids in GRA patients has not only revealed excessive production of aldosterone following ACTH stimulation, but excessive secretion of two normally rare steroids: 18-hydroxycortisol and 18-oxocortisol (20). This can be explained by the molecular genetic finding of a chimeric gene between CYP11B1 and CYP11B2 --two genes that reside within a 30-kilobase stretch on chromosome 8 that results from an unequal crossing over during meiotic reduction. CYP11B1 encodes 11β-hydroxylase, the enzyme that catalyzes the last step in cortisol synthesis in the zona fasiculata; CYP11B2 encodes aldosterone synthase, the enzyme that catalyzes the last step in aldosterone synthesis in the zona glomerulosa. The product of this chimera thus carries aldosterone synthase enzymatic activity but is regulated by ACTH. Indeed, direct genetic screening for the presence of the chimeric gene can be performed by the long template PCR method with oligonucleotides specific for CYP11B1 and CYP11B2 . This test is 100% sensitive and specific, has a relatively low cost, and is more rapid and reliable,
