Endocrine Hypertension in Childhood
KEYWORDS: hypertension, adrenal, aldosterone, patients, endocrinol, cortisol, clin, renin, deficiency, children, mineralocorticoid, treatment, excess, metab, enzyme


long template PCR method with oligonucleotides specific for CYP11B1 and CYP11B2 . This test is 100% sensitive and specific, has a relatively low cost, and is more rapid and reliable, compared to conventional dexamethasone suppression test (21). However, both dexamethasone administration and genetic testing are of importance in making the diagnosis. Treatment Children with GRA who are treated with GCs usually experience resolution of their hypertension within 2 weeks after initiation of therapy. The recommended doses are similar to CAH during childhood and adulthood (also see Chapter 8 – Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia) , because the aim is to suppress ACTH secretion. Hydrocortisone is preferred during childhood period when dexamethasone is used in adults. A low sodium diet is recommended to lower BP because of the salt-sensitive volume expansion; this will also minimize potassium wasting. Typically, potassium supplement is not required. Normalization of urinary hybrid steroid levels and abolition of ACTH-regulated aldosterone production is not a requisite for hypertension control and, if used as a treatment goal, may unnecessarily increase the risk of Cushingoid side effects (22). The response to GCs is variable in adults, often requiring additional use of antihypertensive medications, such as spironolactone, amiloride and triamterene. It has been shown that even in the absence of hypertension, aldosterone excess is associated with increased left ventricular wall thicknesses and reduced diastolic function, initial changes that lead to cardiovascular morbidities. This leads to the recommendation to treat normotensive subjects diagnosed with FH I (23). APPARENT MINERALOCORTICOID EXCESS AME is a rare inherited form of hypertension caused by 11 β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 (11 β-HSD) deficiency. The disorder was first described biochemically and hormonally in 1977 by New et al in a Native American girl with severe hypertension (24). The syndrome is caused by non functional mutations in HSD11B2 gene on chromosome16q22. More than 40 causative mutations have been described. (14) In the past 4 decades since the original description of the disease, published data only included less than 100 patients worldwide. AME defined an important “pre-receptor” pathway in steroid hormone action and their specificities to the receptor. The exploration and elucidation of this disease opened a new area in receptor biology as a result of the demonstration that the specificity of the MR function depends on a metabolic enzyme (11ßHSD2) rather than the receptor itself (25,26). This enzyme functions to protect the MR by inactivating cortisol to its inactive metabolite cortisone,
