Endocrine Hypertension in Childhood
KEYWORDS: hypertension, adrenal, aldosterone, patients, endocrinol, cortisol, clin, renin, deficiency, children, mineralocorticoid, treatment, excess, metab, enzyme


the MR function depends on a metabolic enzyme (11ßHSD2) rather than the receptor itself (25,26). This enzyme functions to protect the MR by inactivating cortisol to its inactive metabolite cortisone, thereby enabling the mineralocorticoid aldosterone to occupy the MR in vivo (27,28). Aldosterone is not metabolized by 11ßHSD2 because it forms a C11–C18 hemi-ketal group in aqueous solution. The MR is non-selective in vitro and cannot distinguish between the glucocorticoid cortisol and its natural ligand, aldosterone (29,30). Therefore, lack of protection of the receptor owing to the enzyme defect allows cortisol, which has higher circulating levels than aldosterone, to bind to the MR and to act as a mineralocorticoid. Clinical manifestations of AME mimic those of excessive mineralocorticoid activity, but no elevation of known mineralocorticoids is present in the AME patients. Three metabolite ratios are calculated, each reflecting a different aspect of enzyme function: (1) tetrahydrocortisol (THF) + allo-THF/ tetrahydrocortisone (THE) (global function of HSD) (31) ; (2) allo-THF/THF ratio (defect in 5ß-reductase activity) (32,33) ; (3) urinary free cortisol (UFF)/urinary free cortisone (UFE) (kidney HSD function)(34). Originally AME was described through the plasma half-life of [11-3H] cortisol (which when metabolized by 11ß-HSD yields tritiated water and cortisone), which may more accurately reflect renal 11ß-HSD2 activity (35). AME usually presents in early life with low birth weight and postnatal failure to thrive, hypertension, and persistent polyuria and polydipsia. The disorder is characterized by hypokalemic alkalosis, hyporeninemia and undetectable serum concentrations of aldosterone. End-organ damage secondary to hypertension is common, even at a young age. Thirteen out of fourteen AME patients demonstrated damage of one or more organs (kidney, heart, retina or central nervous system) at the time of diagnosis. In addition, most had hypercalcuria with nephrocalcinosis (36). Treatment The treatment of AME is primarily directed at the correction of hypokalemia and hypertension. Cortisol acts as the offending MC in AME, hence blockage of its binding to the MR reverses excess mineralocortocoidism. Spironolactone, an MR receptor antagonist, is the medication of choice: it binds competitively and protects the receptors against any MC in excess. The required dose of spironolactone in AME patients may go up to 3-5 mg/kg/day (or more than 400 mg per day in adults), to control blood pressure and to normalize renin. A reduction in dietary sodium and supplemental potassium are beneficial. Potassium supplement varies among patient to patient, range from 3-8 mEq/Kg/day. Patients with nephrocalcinosis require additional
