Endocrine Hypertension in Childhood
KEYWORDS: hypertension, adrenal, aldosterone, patients, endocrinol, cortisol, clin, renin, deficiency, children, mineralocorticoid, treatment, excess, metab, enzyme


and to normalize renin. A reduction in dietary sodium and supplemental potassium are beneficial. Potassium supplement varies among patient to patient, range from 3-8 mEq/Kg/day. Patients with nephrocalcinosis require additional thiazide diuretic. In order to reduce urinary calcium and control blood pressure in these patients, either chlorothiazide at the dose of 20 mg/Kg/day or hydrochlorothiazide at the dose of 2 mg/Kg/day is recommended. Follow-up studies of AME patients treated with spironolactone revealed significant improvement in clinical symptoms. These outcomes demonstrate the importance of early diagnosis and adequate treatment (26,36). Another approach utilizing dexamethasone at the dose of 1.5-2.0 mg/day to suppress cortisol secretion demonstrated variable results. Normalization of BP occurred in approximately 60% of cases (37). Dexamethasone does not correct the hypokalemia and hypertension in all patients, and long-term therapy has excessive GC adverse effects. The low effectiveness of this treatment is not surprising based on theoretical grounds: in vitro data suggests that putative physiologic ligands to non-selective MR in the kidney include dexamethasone, as well as cortisol and other MCs (29). Therefore administering dexamethasone to suppress cortisol secretion, which is already lowered in AME, may supply an additional MR ligand to aggravate MC excess. Additional antihypertensive medications, such as thiazides or amiloride, may be required during disease progression. Cure of AME was reported in one patient after kidney transplantation due to the normal 11β-HSD2 activity of the transplanted kidney (38,39). Advances in enhancing or inhibiting11βHSD2 activity by some medications may provide novel treatments for AME (40). Although AME is very rare, mild or intermediate phenotypes of AME patients may be linked to common human disorders via alteration in cortisol-cortisone shuttle. These include several forms of hypertension, kidney failure, inflammatory processes (cirrhosis and cardiac fibrosis), low birth weight/ fetal programming of adult diseases and lately, carcinogenesis. PRIMARY ALDOSTERONISM Primary aldosteronism (PA) is a group of disorders, originally described by J.W.Conn in 1954 (41), in which there is a non-suppressible secretion of aldosterone. The major presentations are hypertension and hypokalemia. However, hypokalemia does not occur in the majority of patients with primary aldosteronism, with the prevalence ranging from 9 to 37% in adults (42). Various symptoms associated with hypokalemia can be found, including muscle weakness with various types of paresthesias, tiredness, thirst, polyuria and nocturia. PA occurs in greater than 10% of hypertensive adult patients (43) . Although it is considered rare in children, the high prevalence in the general adult
