Endocrine Hypertension in Childhood
KEYWORDS: hypertension, adrenal, aldosterone, patients, endocrinol, cortisol, clin, renin, deficiency, children, mineralocorticoid, treatment, excess, metab, enzyme


thirst, polyuria and nocturia. PA occurs in greater than 10% of hypertensive adult patients (43) . Although it is considered rare in children, the high prevalence in the general adult population suggests that the disease may develop in the pediatric population prior to its presentation of hypertension and vascular damage in adulthood [4]. Moderate to severe hypertension that does not respond to medication(s), spontaneous or diuretic induced hypokalemia and the presence of adrenal mass provide clues to diagnosis (43). The major causes of PA are aldosterone-producing adenomas (often small tumors of less than 2 centimeters in diameter), bilateral or unilateral adrenal hyperplasia and rarely adrenal carcinoma. Plasma aldosterone-renin ratio (ARR) may be used as an initial screening test and should be repeated if the results are not conclusive or are difficult to interpret. Established ARR cut-offs in adults range between 20 to 40 (43). Further testing through suppressing aldosterone by oral sodium loading, saline infusion, and/or a challenge with either fludrocortisone or captopril can be used for diagnosis confirmation; however cut-off values and interpretation have only been established in adults. Adrenal computed tomography scan or an MRI image are used as the imaging study to identify the mass. The treatment options include unilateral adrenalectomy for unilateral diseases found on adrenal vein sampling and a MR antagonist such as spironolactone or eplerenone. (see details in Chapter 23 – Aldosterone Excess in ADRENAL PHYSIOLOGY AND DISEASES section) PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA Pheochromocytomas are reported to account for hypertension in 1 to 2% of children (44). They are catecholamine-producing tumors that arise from the chromaffin cells of the adrenal medulla and the sympathetic ganglia and they present with signs and symptoms that are related to the action of catecholamines. (See Chapter 34 in Adrenal Physiology and Disease section). Although the peak incidence is in the third to fourth decades, 10% to 20% occur in children, with increased frequency in boys, and a median age at presentation between 9.5 and 12.5 years (45). Certain symptoms are reported as occurring more commonly in children than adults. These include sweating, visual disturbances, nausea, vomiting, loss of weight, polyuria and polydipsia (46). In comparison with adults in whom the hypertension is often paroxysmal, it is sustained in 70 to 90% of children (47). However, hypertension is not invariable and can be absent in up to 20% of children (48). Furthermore, many pheochromocytomas, especially associated with MEN 2 and VHL disease,
