Endocrine Hypertension in Childhood
KEYWORDS: hypertension, adrenal, aldosterone, patients, endocrinol, cortisol, clin, renin, deficiency, children, mineralocorticoid, treatment, excess, metab, enzyme


of children (47). However, hypertension is not invariable and can be absent in up to 20% of children (48). Furthermore, many pheochromocytomas, especially associated with MEN 2 and VHL disease, can be clinically silent. OTHER CAUSES OF CHILDHOOD HYPERTENSION Liddle’s syndrome is a rare autosomal dominant disease described by Liddle et al. in 1963 (49) causing arterial hypertension. Mutations in SCNN1B and SCNN1G, the genes that mapped to chromosome 16p12, have been described in Liddle’s syndrome patients (14). The clinical and biochemical findings other than elevated blood pressure are: chronic hypokalemia, increased urinary potassium excretion in conjunction with sodium retention, suppressed renin activity, aldosterone and angiotensin II. These presentations are similar to AME, but in contrast, Liddle’s syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder that does not show a favorable response to spironolactone. (21) Another rare cause is familial hyperaldosteronism type II (FHII), the first cases described by Gordon et al. in 1991 in three families with a familial variety of PA (50). It is distinguished from type I (GRA) by the failure of dexamethasone’s suppression of aldosterone and no hybrid gene mutation. FH-II is more common than FH-I, but their clinical presentations are indistinguishable from other forms of PA. Patients with FH II are older than those with FH I, perhaps owing to diagnosis of FH I at a younger age, made possible by genetic testing. No significance in age, sex, biochemical parameters, or aldosterone and renin levels was seen between patients with FH II and those with apparently sporadic PA. (21) It has been described both in families and in sporadic cases worldwide, with a range in age starting at 14 years and equal gender distribution (51). Although the inheritance in many families appears to be autosomal dominant, in sporadic cases it is still uncertain. Surgical treatment in the case of unilateral adrenal mass and medical treatment with MR antagonists can be effective (21). Acknowledgement: The author would like to express a special gratitude to C. Joan Riesland, M.Ed., BSN, RN for her editorial work on this article. REFERENCES Corvol P, Persu A, Gimenez-Roqueplo AP, Jeunemaitre X Seven lessons from two candidate genes in human essential hypertension: Angiotensinogen and Epithelial Sodium Channel. Hypertension 1999; 33:1324-31 The fourth report on the diagnosis, evaluation, and treatment of high blood pressure in children and adolescents. Pediatrics 2004;114(2 Suppl 4th Report):555-76. Zachmann M, Tassinari D, Prader A 1983 Clinical and biochemical variability of
