Int.J.Exp.Path.(2011),92,366–376
KEYWORDS: epithelial, lung, mitochondrial, sepsis, intestinal, cells, injury, cid, cell, cytomix, barrier, function, caco-, epithelium, hlec


impaired barrier function (Fink & Delude 2005) in the con- (MODS), most commonly caused by severe infections (sep- text of severe sepsis; however, little is known about the sta- sis), is the leading cause of mortality in critical care units tus of mitochondria in lung epithelium under these (Tran et al. 1990; Vincent et al. 2006). A growing body of conditions. Furthermore, it is unclear whether lung epithe- dataindicatesthatalteredcellmetabolism,particularlymito- lium fundamentally differs from intestinal epithelium in chondrial, contributes to cell and organ dysfunction. The terms of susceptibility to the cytopathic events that charac- intestinal epithelium is particularly susceptible to mitochon- terize severe sepsis and the functional consequences thereof. 366 (cid:2)2011TheAuthors.InternationalJournalofExperimentalPathology(cid:2)2011InternationalJournalofExperimentalPathology Epithelialinjury duringsepsis 367 In this regard, recent studies indicate that the barrier func- andallcareandhandlingoftheanimalswereinaccordwith tion of epithelial cells is sensitive to alterations in their bio- National Institutes of Health guidelines. The experiments energeticstatus(Unnoet al.1996; Zheng &Cantley 2007). used an animal preparation that has been described previ- Based upon human studies showing that intestinal epithe- ously (Crouser et al. 1999, 2002). Briefly, fasted, adult male lial cells undergo accelerated rates of programmed cell death cats were anesthetized with intramuscular ketamine hydro- during sepsis , we hypothesized that the chloride (25mg⁄kg) and intravenous sodium pentobarbital intestinal epithelium is more susceptible to mitochondrial (10mg⁄kg), intubated for mechanical ventilation and had a damage and dysfunction during severe acute bacterial sepsis femoral artery and vein cannulated to enable continuous than the lung epithelium and that consequent disruption of recording of systemic arterial pressure and arterial and epithelial cell metabolism results in altered epithelial barrier venous blood sampling. Additional intravenous sodium pen- function.Alargeanimalmodelwasemployedfortheseinves- tobarbital (approximately 1–5mg⁄kg) was provided, as tigations as it offers certain advantages over the prototypical needed, to maintain a proper level of sedation throughout rodent sepsis models, especially in the context of acute lung the experimental time course. A blood gas analyser (ABL5; injury (ALI). Rodent models of sepsis are limited by the Radiometer America, Westlake,OH, USA) and a cooximeter inability to control for potentially confounding physiological (OSM3; Radiometer America), calibrated for feline blood, variables such as shock, hypoxaemia or acidosis, which are were used to assess ongoing blood gas and oxygenation sta- typically optimized in the human condition. In this regard, tus, enabling corrective measures as needed. Arterial pCO theintestinalepitheliumisparticularlysensitivetochangesin and pO were maintained within normal limits by adjusting systemic blood pressure and attendant ischaemia⁄reperfusion the FO and minute ventilation, as necessary.
