Int.J.Exp.Path.(2011),92,366–376
KEYWORDS: epithelial, lung, mitochondrial, sepsis, intestinal, cells, injury, cid, cell, cytomix, barrier, function, caco-, epithelium, hlec


enabling corrective measures as needed. Arterial pCO theintestinalepitheliumisparticularlysensitivetochangesin and pO were maintained within normal limits by adjusting systemic blood pressure and attendant ischaemia⁄reperfusion the FO and minute ventilation, as necessary. By adminis- I 2 injury(Hotchkissetal.1999).Otheradvantagesoflargeani- tering intravenous bicarbonate, as required, arterial pH was mal models include the ability to accurately assess lung gas normalized as well. Evaporative fluid loss was replenished exchange (e.g. during mechanical ventilation) and greater with buffered isotonic saline (5–10ml⁄kg⁄h), and rectal conformityto humananatomy(Ware2008).An acutegram- temperature was monitoredand maintained at39(cid:3)C. negative bacteremia model [severe Escherichia coli bactere- mia resulting in severe sepsis (without shock) and eventual Experimental protocol organfailuresanddeath(Schlagetal.1992)]waschosenasit induces consistent dose-dependent pathology, such as is After a 30-min stabilization period, baseline measurements found in human sepsis, including alterations of the coagula- were obtained, and animals were randomly assigned to tion cascade and lung and intestinal injury receiveeitherintravenousEscherichiacoli[5.0·108CFU⁄kg (Carraway et al. 1998; Welty-Wolf et al. 1998). This model (in20ml),n=6]orbufferedisotonicsaline vehicle(control, is relevant to human bacteremia in the setting of gram-nega- n = 6). Bacterial E. coli, serotype O86a:K61, was obtained tive sepsis wherein the mortality is high, even with optimal from the American Type Culture Collection (33985(cid:4); treatment, and death occurs in a delayed fashion (Ziegler Manassas, VA, USA), grown up and prepared as detailed et al. 1991). In vitro analyses of lung and intestinal epithe- previously . The chosen acute dose lium were performed in concert using a cocktail of pro- proved to be sublethal for the experimental time period inflammatory cytokines (i.e. cytomix), which models the involved, yet evidence of acute organ injury typical of severe inflammatorymilieuofsepsisandisknowntoalterthefunc- sepsis was demonstrated in the ileum, liver and heart within tion of epithelial cells (Burke-Gaffney & Hellewell 1997; 2–4 h post-treatment consistent with that formerly described Wangetal.2008). (Crouseretal.1999,2002,2002;Joshietal.2006).Inkeep- The results of these investigations are interesting in that ing with the results of Schlag et al. (1992), a dose of they show the intestinal epithelium to be more sensitive to 1·107CFU⁄kg E. coli failed to induce acute organ damage ultrastructural damage, particularly mitochondrial, than the (datanotshown).ApproximatelyhalfoftheE.colidosewas lung epithelium under conditions modelling acute severe administered as an intravenous bolus over 1min with the sepsis. Furthermore, in vitro analyses indicate that loss of remaining half added to the intravenous drip and dispensed epithelial barrier function, as reflected by reduced transepi- over the succeeding hour. Arterial pCO (35–40 mm Hg), thelial electrical resistance (TER) and increased permeability pO (>100mm Hg) and pH
