Int.J.Exp.Path.(2011),92,366–376
KEYWORDS: epithelial, lung, mitochondrial, sepsis, intestinal, cells, injury, cid, cell, cytomix, barrier, function, caco-, epithelium, hlec


were excised and routinely processed for light and electron (Phillips CM-12 transmission electron microscope; Eindhoven, Holland) microscopy evaluation as treatment. TNFa measurements were made by ELISA utiliz- discussed elsewhere (Crouser et al. 1999, 2002). For light ing a mouse monoclonal capture antibody (Clone Mo199; microscopy, tissues were formalin-fixed for 72 h, blocked in Boehringer Mannheim, Indianapolis, IN, USA) and a rabbit paraffin, cut at 4lm, de-paraffinized and then stained with polyclonal detection antibody to human TNFa. This assay is haematoxylin and eosin. For electron microscopy, tissues sensitive to TNFa concentrations ‡50pg⁄ml and is highly weredicedandfixedusing4%paraformaldehyde,2.5%glu- specific for TNFa . Given that feline taraldehyde and 0.1 M sucrose in 0.1 M phosphate buffer TNFa is known to have 90% homology with human TNFa, (pH =7.4). Specimens were then postfixed in 1% osmium the ELISA specificity remains equally high for accurate tetroxide, dehydrated, embedded in Spurr media, cut, quantification infeline serumsamples as well. mounted on copper grids and stained with 2% uranyl ace- tateand Reynoldsleadcitrate. Preparation of epithelial cell cultures Mitochondrial injury was assessed, as previously described (Crouseretal.1999,2002;Joshietal.2000),usingascoring Human lungs were collected with approval from The Ohio system that is based upon the characteristic ultrastructural State University Institutional Review Board and with patient features of mitochondria attendant to the progressive stages consent. Normal, healthy adult donor lungs (n =5) were of cellular injury . For each experiment, obtained via open lung biopsy, and then primary human mitochondrialultrastructurewasevaluatedatthreerandomly lung epithelial cells (HLEC) were isolated after enzymatic selectedandwidelyseparatedareasforeachtissueoneachof dissociation from the trachea, bronchi and bronchioles, twodifferentgrids.Tworeviewersmadetheexaminationsin seeded onto collagen-coated, semi-permeable membranes a blinded fashion, and the severity of ultrastructural injury (0.6cm2, Millicell-HA; Millipore, Billerica, MA, USA) and wasquantifiedbydeterminingacompositescore(basedupon grown at an air–liquid interface, as previously described the scale of 0–5, as shown in Table 1), which represented all (Yamaya et al. 1992; Smith et al. 1996; Bao & Knoell the mitochondria visualized within the high-power micro- 2006). Human lung epithelial cells were then cultured in a scopy field. Thus, the reported mitochondrial injury score in 50:50 mixture of Dulbecco’s Modified Eagle media and each tissue for each experiment was derived from approxi- Ham’s F-12 media (D-MEM⁄F-12; Invitrogen Corp., Carls- mately 20 independent evaluations (i.e. approximately 120 bad, CA, USA), supplemented with 2% Ultroser G independentevaluationsforeachtissuepergroup). (BioSepra; Villeneuve, La Garenne, France) and multiple antibiotics [penicillin (100U⁄ml), streptomycin (100lg⁄ml), gentamycin (50lg⁄ml), fluconazole (2 lg⁄ml) and ampho- Feline Tumour Necrosis Factor a (TNFa) measurement tericin B (1.25
