Int.J.Exp.Path.(2011),92,366–376
KEYWORDS: epithelial, lung, mitochondrial, sepsis, intestinal, cells, injury, cid, cell, cytomix, barrier, function, caco-, epithelium, hlec


were used to plot the data and carry out (MW=457) diffusion. At each time point, Lucifer yellow the statistical analyses, respectively. Comparisons of feline (Millipore) was added to the donor (apical) chambers (final physiological parameters, TNFa levels and ileal mitochon- concentration: 0.1mg⁄ml) to monitor membrane integrity. drialinjuryscoresweremadeusingone-wayanalysisofvari- Aliquots (100ll) were taken from the acceptor (basolateral) ance (treatment) with repeated measures (time or replicates). chambers and analysed in a fluorescent plate reader at exci- Lungwet-to-dryratios,theflowcytometry-derivedred–green tation and emission wavelengths of 425 and 535nm, respec- fluorescence intensity ratios, bicarbonate administration and tively (Cytofluor II Fluorescence multiwell plate reader; lung mitochondrial injury scores were compared using the old value of ‡0.25%⁄h of Lucifer yellow flux was used to ative caspase-3 activity measurements were analysed using denotebarriers thatwere abnormallypermeable. two-wayanovawhereintheP-valuesofallpairwisecompar- isons were obtained using Tukey’s multiple comparison method. Evaluation of cellular mitochondrial membrane potential To assess relative changes in mitochondrial membrane Results potential (DW) following cytomix treatment, HLEC and Caco-2 cells were harvested at 24h post-treatment and Physiological parameters during the experimental washed with warm PBS. The cells were then resuspended in protocol 1ml warm PBS at a concentration of 1·106 and incubated with 2lM JC-1 using the MitoProbe(cid:4) In accordance with the experimental protocol, resuscitation JC-1 Assay kit (Invitrogen) at 37(cid:3)C, 5% CO for 20min. was provided to maintain hemodynamic parameters, temper- Following a single wash with PBS, cells were resuspended ature and blood gas variables within a predetermined nor- and analysed by flow cytometry (Becton Dickinson FACS mal range. All physiological measurements remained Calibur; BD Inc., Franklin Lakes, NJ, USA) using a 488 nm relatively unchanged during the 6-h time period and did not excitation wavelength with 519nm (FITC-green) and differ significantly between the two groups (Figure 1). Mean 578nm (PE-red) emission filters and photographed during arterial pressure, p O ⁄FO and ileal oxygenation status a 2 I 2 fluorescence microscopy using a standard MF filter (Olym- were relatively constant throughout the experiment and did pus BX40; Olympus America Inc., Melville, NY, USA). Fifty notvarybetween E. coli-treated andcontrol groups. micromolar carbonyl cyanide 3-chlorophenylhydrazone Unlike our previously established LPS model (Crouser (CCCP), an uncoupler of oxidative phosphorylation, at et al. 1999, 2002, 2002; Joshi et al. 2006), only minor 37(cid:3)C for5min servedas a positive control. adjustments in minute ventilation, fluid resuscitation and bicarbonate administration were required through 6h post- treatment in this bacteremia model. Positive end-expiratory Assessment of apoptotic epithelial cell death pressure
