Int.J.Exp.Path.(2011),92,366–376
KEYWORDS: epithelial, lung, mitochondrial, sepsis, intestinal, cells, injury, cid, cell, cytomix, barrier, function, caco-, epithelium, hlec


IFNc), unless the cells are rendered susceptible The in vivo studies showed that intestinal epithelial injury, to injury by other factors, such as zinc depletion (Bao & characterized by altered mitochondrial morphology, is an Knoell 2006) or alcohol exposure . This early occurrence during severe bacteremic sepsis; however, would explain why a minority of patients presenting with the lung epithelium is preserved (Figures 3 and 4). In keep- sepsis develop severe ALI (Fein et al. 1983; Pittet et al. ing with preserved lung morphology, pulmonary gas 1999; Vincent & Zambon 2006); whereas, the risk of ALI exchange was unchanged during the acute phase of sepsis increases when a second risk factor is present, such as alco- (Figure 1). However, it was unclear from the in vivo investi- holism , zinc depletion (Knoell et al. gations whether the relative resistance of the lung epithelium 2009) or ventilator-induced lung injury (ARDSnetwork, to sepsis relates to intrinsic cellular properties or is depen- 2000; Frank et al. 2003). Presumably, there are a number of dent upon other variables, such as differences in regional comorbid conditions contributing to sepsis-induced ALI in blood flow, inflammatory cell activation or the absence of humans thatare yetto be identified. bacteria(which ispresent inthe intestinal lumen). The incidence of intestinal epithelial damage and related The in vitro model provided for a more sustained changes in function during sepsis is difficult to determine exposure to putative sepsis mediators while controlling for because sensitiveclinical diagnosticclinical tools are lacking. potentially confounding environmental variables, such as However, early postmortem examination of septic humans ambient oxygen tension, cytokine concentrations or regional demonstrated that the intestinal mucosa is particularly prone bacterial populations. Under identical experimental condi- to cytopathic changes (Hotchkiss et al. 1999; Berthiaume & tions, cultured lung epithelial cells were shown to be more Matthay 2007). This conforms to the common association resistant to pro-inflammatory cytokine-mediated mitochon- of sepsis with altered gut motility and absorption (Johnston drial dysfunction compared with intestinal epithelial cells. et al. 1996; Ritz et al. 2000; Overhaus et al. 2004) and sup- Although mitochondrial damage can trigger cell death, ports the notion that the gut is the ‘motor’ of MODS, relat- changes in mitochondrial function (Figure 7) were not asso- ing to epithelial damage, translocation of bacteria and ciated with significant cell death under our experimental bacterial products and the perpetuation of innate immune conditions, as reflected in the relative caspase-3 activity
