Int.J.Exp.Path.(2011),92,366–376
KEYWORDS: epithelial, lung, mitochondrial, sepsis, intestinal, cells, injury, cid, cell, cytomix, barrier, function, caco-, epithelium, hlec


epithelial damage, translocation of bacteria and ciated with significant cell death under our experimental bacterial products and the perpetuation of innate immune conditions, as reflected in the relative caspase-3 activity (Fig- responses (Swank & Deitch 1996; Husain & Coopersmith ure 8), but did precede changes in barrier function, as indi- 2003). Moreover, intestinal epithelial damage alters the cated by the decreased TER (Figure 5) and increased capacity to provide nutrient support, thereby contributing to permeability(Figure 6)to small molecules. nutritional deficiencies in the setting of sepsis (Johnston Certain organs are known to be highly susceptible to et al. 1996; Ritz et al. 2000). Thus, further investigations injury during critical illness. It has long been recognized that into the mechanisms of intestinal epithelial injury are war- the intestinal epithelium is prone to damage during condi- ranted. tions modelling sepsis, even when controlling for blood flow Changes in intestinal barrier function are preceded by (i.e. tissue oxygenation) (Crouser et al. 1999, 2002), and changes in the mitochondrial energy state (electrochemical intestinal epithelial injury is believed to participate in the gradient) in vitro. JC-1 is a fluorescent cationic dye that is propagation of systemic inflammation by promoting the rapidly sequestered within energized mitochondria, forming invasion of microorganisms or the translocation of bacterial red-fluorescing aggregates. In contrast, when the mitochon- products (Fink & Delude 2005). Likewise, lung epithelial dria become de-energized, JC-1 remains in the cytoplasm in integrity is thought to influence susceptibility to infection a monomeric form, which fluoresces green. Hence, the ratio (i.e. barrier function) (van Kaam et al. 2004) and alveolar of red to green fluorescence reflects the mitochondrial ener- fluid accumulation in the context of ALI (Berthiaume & gization status . Using this sensitive Matthay 2007). In keeping with the previous investigations approach, we observed that cytomix-treated gut epithelial performed in humans who had died from sepsis (Hotchkiss cells exhibited mitochondrial de-energization within 24h, et al. 1999), this study demonstrated the ileum to be prone whereas lung epithelial cells did not. Mitochondrial damage to acute damage; however, the lung was relatively resistant and dysfunction are well documented in various tissues, (cid:2)2011TheAuthors.InternationalJournalofExperimentalPathology(cid:2)2011InternationalJournalofExperimentalPathology,92,366–376 374 M.W.Julianet al. including the intestinal epithelium, in various models of evident that intestinal epithelial injury is not merely sepsis (Cowley et al. 1979; Hersch et al. 1990; Crouser explained by regional differences in oxygen tension (e.g. et al. 1999;Watts etal. 2004; Berthiaume & Matthay 2007; blood flow), inflammatory cell
