Int.J.Exp.Path.(2011),92,366–376
KEYWORDS: epithelial, lung, mitochondrial, sepsis, intestinal, cells, injury, cid, cell, cytomix, barrier, function, caco-, epithelium, hlec


(Cowley et al. 1979; Hersch et al. 1990; Crouser explained by regional differences in oxygen tension (e.g. et al. 1999;Watts etal. 2004; Berthiaume & Matthay 2007; blood flow), inflammatory cell infiltration or the proximity Watanabe et al. 2009). Mitochondrial mechanisms are to bacteria, which are variables that must be considered believedtoexplainthehighrateofintestinalepithelialapop- in vivo. Possible explanations for the greater sensitivity of tosis observed during sepsis and the intestinal epithelium to sepsis and putative sepsis media- are expected to result in reduced ATP-dependent functions, tors (e.g. cytomix) include differences in oxidant⁄anti-oxi- including the maintenance of tight junctions and ion trans- dant balance or enhanced sensitivity to the effects of port (Santa Cruz et al. 2005). Mitochondrial de-energization pro-inflammatory mediators such as IFNc corresponded with subsequent alterations in intestinal epi- orTNFa(Fries et al.2008). thelial barrier function, as reflected by reduced TER and There are several notable study limitations to be recog- increased permeability, such as is observed when epithelial nized. The large animal model, which requires continuous cells are exposed to metabolic toxins (Santa Cruz et al. monitoringandresuscitationtonormalizephysiological vari- 2005). The dramatic increase in permeability to small mole- ables,doesnotallowustomodelsubacutelunginjury;how- cules and reduction in TER observed in the Caco-2 cells ever, this was not the goal of the in vivo investigations. We 72h after cytomix in the absence of significant ongoing cell were primarily interested in determining whether the intesti- death could be explained by the disruption of intercellular nalmucosa wasmore susceptibletoinjurythanthelungepi- tightjunctions. thelium in the context of ‘resuscitated’ sepsis, wherein Recent studies indicate that cellular bioenergetics strongly variables such as blood gases and pH, blood pressure, oxy- influences epithelial barrier functions, particularly with genation and body temperature were optimized, as is the respect to tight junctions. Conditions favouring moderate standard in clinical practice. Maintaining these variables levels of ATP depletion, such as sustained hypoxia or inhibi- was part of the study design given that previous studies tion of glycolysis, are sufficient to promote altered intestinal showed that ischaemia promotes epithelial barrier dysfunc- epithelial permeability and disruption of tight junctions tion and mitochondrial damage (Madesh . Mechanistically, Zheng and Cantley et al. 2000). Likewise, acidosis promotes mitochondrial recently demonstrated that epithelial tight junction assembly swelling and related cellular de-energization (Kristian et al. and disassembly is tightly regulated by AMP-activated pro- 2001). The in vitro model (i.e. cytomix) does not exactly teinkinase (AMPK).More specifically, the activityof AMPK model conditions of sepsis but provides for reproducible
