Int.J.Exp.Path.(2011),92,366–376
KEYWORDS: epithelial, lung, mitochondrial, sepsis, intestinal, cells, injury, cid, cell, cytomix, barrier, function, caco-, epithelium, hlec


is tightly regulated by AMP-activated pro- 2001). The in vitro model (i.e. cytomix) does not exactly teinkinase (AMPK).More specifically, the activityof AMPK model conditions of sepsis but provides for reproducible is modulated by the cellular ATP⁄AMP ratio with lower exposure to the putative pro-inflammatory mediators of sep- ratios favouring disassembly of tight junctions (Zheng & sis, which are known to contribute to cytopathic events. In Cantley 2007). Other possible mechanisms linking loss of particular, cytomix has been used extensively to model epi- epithelial barrier function to mitochondrial dysfunction thelial responses during acute inflammation (Han et al. include impaired ATP-dependent pump functions (Sugi et al. 2004; Bastarache et al. 2007; Wang et al. 2008). Another 2001) or increased mitochondrial oxidant production. With potential limitation relates to the comparison of primary respect to the latter, oxidant stress is known to elicit remod- lung epithelial cell (HLEC) responses to those of an immor- elling of actin filaments leading to loss of barrier function talized human intestinal epithelium cell line (Caco-2). Cul- , and epithelial mitochondria are tured primary human lung epithelial cells optimally shown to produce higher levels of oxidants in response to represent the intact human lung epithelium. In lieu of pri- putative sepsis mediators . Although mary gut epithelial cells, Caco-2 cells are considered to most altered ATPfluxwasnotspecifically addressed inthesestud- closely approximate primary intestinal epithelium in terms ies, the observed alterations in ultrastructure (in vivo) and of in vitro modelling (Sambuy et al. 2005; Shah et al. 2006), function (in vitro) of intestinal mitochondria, the primary including preclinical pharmaceutical and toxicological test- and most efficient source of ATP (compared to glycolysis), ing (Meunier etal. 1995).Furthermore, when comparing the would predispose to ATP depletion such as is documented cytomix-induced responses of HLEC and Caco-2 cells to the in other tissues during sepsis . These epithelial pathology during gram-negative sepsis, the results bioenergetic mechanisms are likely modified by other factors are comparable in that both models show the intestinal epi- known to regulate epithelial permeability, such as nitric thelium to be more susceptible to injury, with evidence of oxide , which could explain the observed earlymitochondrial alterations. transient reduction in HLEC resistance (Figure 5) and corre- In summary, this study confirmed that the intestinal epi- sponding increase in HLEC permeability following cytomix thelium is prone to injury during gram-negative bacteremia treatment (Figure6). and that mitochondrial damage is an early manifestation. Additional investigations are
