Rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in people with atrial
KEYWORDS: warfarin, rivaroxaban, manufacturer, committee, erg, population, people, model, trial, risk, stroke, analysis, compared, noted, rocket-af


fibrillation 1 Recommendations 1.1 Rivaroxaban is recommended as an option for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism within its licensed indication, that is, in people with non- valvular atrial fibrillation with 1 or more risk factors such as: • congestive heart failure • hypertension • age 75 years or older • diabetes mellitus • prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack. 1.2 Decide whether to start treatment with rivaroxaban after an informed discussion with the person about its risks and benefits compared with warfarin, apixaban, dabigatran etexilate and edoxaban. For people taking warfarin, consider the potential risks and benefits of switching to rivaroxaban taking into account their level of international normalised ratio (INR) control. 2 The technology 2.1 Rivaroxaban (Xarelto, Bayer HealthCare) is an anticoagulant that directly inhibits activated factor X (factor Xa). Factor Xa is a key component in the formation of blood clots. Rivaroxaban has a UK marketing authorisation for the 'prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation with 1 or more risk factors such as: congestive heart failure, hypertension, age 75 years or older, diabetes mellitus, prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack'. 2.2 According to the summary of product characteristics, approximately 14% of people treated with rivaroxaban in clinical studies experienced adverse reactions. Bleeding occurred in approximately 3.3% of patients and anaemia in approximately 1% of patients. Other common adverse reactions were nausea and an increase in transaminases. The summary of product characteristics states that the risk of bleeding may be increased in certain patient groups, for example those with uncontrolled severe arterial hypertension and/or those taking other treatments that affect haemostasis. For full details of adverse reactions and contraindications see the summary of product characteristics. 2.3 The price of rivaroxaban is £58.80 for a pack of 28×15-mg tablets and £58.80 for a pack of 28×20-mg tablets (MIMS, March 2012). Costs may vary in different settings because of negotiated procurement discounts. 3 The manufacturer's submission The Appraisal Committee considered evidence submitted by the manufacturer of rivaroxaban and a review of this submission by the Evidence Review Group (ERG). 3.1 The main clinical effectiveness evidence came from 1 multicentre, double-blind randomised controlled trial. The ROCKET-AF trial ('Rivaroxaban once daily oral direct factor Xa inhibitor compared with vitamin K antagonism for prevention of stroke and embolism trial in atrial fibrillation') compared rivaroxaban with dose- adjusted warfarin. The manufacturer also compared rivaroxaban with aspirin
