Rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in people with atrial
KEYWORDS: warfarin, rivaroxaban, manufacturer, committee, erg, population, people, model, trial, risk, stroke, analysis, compared, noted, rocket-af


Xa inhibitor compared with vitamin K antagonism for prevention of stroke and embolism trial in atrial fibrillation') compared rivaroxaban with dose- adjusted warfarin. The manufacturer also compared rivaroxaban with aspirin and dabigatran etexilate (110 mg or 150 mg twice a day) using a network meta- analysis in people for whom anticoagulation therapy was considered suitable. The ROCKET-AF trial was designed as double-blind, double dummy trial comparing rivaroxaban (20 mg or 15 mg once a day) with warfarin (target INR of 2.0 to 3.0) for the prevention of stroke and thromboembolic events in people with non-valvular atrial fibrillation at risk of future thromboembolic events. People were randomly allocated to 1 of the 2 treatment groups with equal probability (1:1 allocation ratio). The study took place in 45 countries, including the UK, and a total of 14,264 people were enrolled across the 2 treatment arms (rivaroxaban n=7,131, warfarin n=7,133). Treatment continued until approximately 405 adjudicated primary efficacy end point events had occurred in the per-protocol population on treatment. As a result, the time on treatment varied from patient to patient depending on when they enrolled in the trial. The median duration of treatment was 590 days. 3.2 The primary efficacy end point in ROCKET-AF was a composite of stroke (ischaemic and haemorrhagic stroke) and non-central nervous system systemic embolism. The primary safety end point was defined as a composite of major bleeding and clinically relevant non-major bleeding. To show non-inferiority in preventing stroke and non-central nervous system embolism, the upper boundary of the confidence interval of the hazard ratio (HR) for rivaroxaban compared with warfarin had to be less than 1.46. Once non-inferiority was demonstrated for the primary outcome, further analyses investigated superiority of rivaroxaban over warfarin. 3.3 More than 50% of people in the trial received treatment for at least 18 months. The median age of study participants was 73 years and 60.3% were men. The majority of the trial population (62.4%) had previously received warfarin therapy and 36.5% had previously received aspirin. Risk of stroke at baseline was classified according to CHADS score, which is used to predict the risk of stroke 2 in people with atrial fibrillation. The trial entry criteria included a history of stroke, transient ischaemic attack or systemic embolism, or a CHADS score of 2 or 2 more. The mean CHADS score was 3.48 for the rivaroxaban group and 3.46 for 2 the warfarin group; 99.98%
