Rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in people with atrial
KEYWORDS: warfarin, rivaroxaban, manufacturer, committee, erg, population, people, model, trial, risk, stroke, analysis, compared, noted, rocket-af


or systemic embolism, or a CHADS score of 2 or 2 more. The mean CHADS score was 3.48 for the rivaroxaban group and 3.46 for 2 the warfarin group; 99.98% of the trial population had a baseline CHADS score of 2 2 or more and 86.95% a baseline CHADS score of 3 or more. Three participants 2 (0.02% of the trial population) had a baseline CHADS score of 1. In the warfarin 2 group the mean time in therapeutic range for the INR range of 2.0 to 3.0 was 55% (58% median). Some variability was observed in time in therapeutic range by region: north America had the highest overall INR control, followed by western Europe, Latin America, Asia Pacific, and eastern Europe. 3.4 Three analyses were defined in the manufacturer's submission for the efficacy analysis: the intention-to-treat set (all patients randomised), the safety-on- treatment set (all intention-to-treat patients who had taken at least 1 dose of the study drug and were followed for events) and the per-protocol set (all intention- to-treat patients excluding those who had major pre-defined protocol deviations). The primary non-inferiority analysis of the ROCKET-AF trial was conducted on the per-protocol and the safety-on-treatment population data sets. The superiority analyses were conducted on the safety-on-treatment population data sets. In addition to these analyses, sensitivity analyses were performed to assess non- inferiority and superiority in the intention-to-treat population. The primary safety analysis was conducted on the safety-on-treatment population data. 3.5 Pre-planned subgroup analyses were conducted. These were by region, prior use of vitamin K antagonists (such as warfarin), and history of stroke, transient ischaemic attack, and non-central nervous system systemic embolism. Other subgroups included prior chronic aspirin use, sex, age, family origin, renal function, body mass index, weight, CHADS score, congestive heart failure, 2 hypertension, diabetes, type of atrial fibrillation, proton pump inhibitor use at baseline, and prior myocardial infarction. Results were summarised by subgroup based on data from the safety-on-treatment and intention-to-treat populations. 3.6 The non-inferiority of rivaroxaban compared with warfarin was demonstrated for the primary outcome (composite of stroke and non-central nervous system systemic embolism) in both the per-protocol and safety-on-treatment populations. The results for the per-protocol population were HR 0.79 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.66 to 0.96) and HR 0.79 (95% CI 0.65 to 0.95) for the safety-on treatment population. Superiority of rivaroxaban over warfarin was also demonstrated in the safety-on-treatment population, but was not demonstrated
