Rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in people with atrial
KEYWORDS: warfarin, rivaroxaban, manufacturer, committee, erg, population, people, model, trial, risk, stroke, analysis, compared, noted, rocket-af


0.96) and HR 0.79 (95% CI 0.65 to 0.95) for the safety-on treatment population. Superiority of rivaroxaban over warfarin was also demonstrated in the safety-on-treatment population, but was not demonstrated for this outcome in the sensitivity analysis using the intention-to-treat population data set (HR 0.88, 95% CI 0.75 to 1.03). 3.7 For the primary safety end point of major or non-major clinically relevant bleeding, the results from the safety-on-treatment population data for ROCKET- AF suggest a comparable safety profile for rivaroxaban and warfarin, with no statistically significant difference between the 2 treatments (HR 1.03, 95% CI 0.96 to 1.11). Bleeding sites for the primary safety end point differed between treatment groups. Rivaroxaban was more often associated with bleeding at sites throughout the gastrointestinal tract (3.15% compared with 2.16%, p<0.001) but intracranial haemorrhage rates were significantly lower with rivaroxaban than with warfarin (0.5% compared with 0.7%, p=0.02). Following a request from the ERG the manufacturer provided subgroup analyses for the safety-on-treatment and intention-to-treat populations in people who had previously used vitamin K antagonists, people who had not previously used vitamin K antagonists, people with a time in therapeutic range below 60%, and those with a time in therapeutic range above 60%. In the safety-on-treatment population, superiority of rivaroxaban compared with warfarin was demonstrated for the primary outcome (composite of stroke and non-central nervous system systemic embolism) in people who had not previously used vitamin K antagonists (HR 0.72, 95% CI 0.53 to 0.97) but not in people who had previously used vitamin K antagonists (HR 0.84, 95% CI 0.66 to 1.08). 3.8 The manufacturer undertook a Bayesian network meta-analysis comparison of rivaroxaban with warfarin, aspirin, no treatment and dabigatran etexilate. The clinical evidence for the rivaroxaban with warfarin comparison was taken from the ROCKET-AF trial. Evidence for the other comparators was obtained from studies found by a systematic literature search. The manufacturer identified 18 studies for inclusion in the network meta-analysis: • 1 comparing rivaroxaban with warfarin • 7 comparing aspirin with placebo or control • 8 comparing warfarin with aspirin • 1 comparing a vitamin K antagonist with clopidogrel plus aspirin • 1 comparing dabigatran etexilate with warfarin (the RE-LY study). The manufacturer reported network meta-analysis results for the outcomes using the ROCKET-AF safety-on-treatment population data set. At the request of the ERG, the manufacturer also provided the results for the outcomes using the ROCKET-AF intention-to-treat population dataset. The efficacy
