Rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in people with atrial
KEYWORDS: warfarin, rivaroxaban, manufacturer, committee, erg, population, people, model, trial, risk, stroke, analysis, compared, noted, rocket-af


using the ROCKET-AF safety-on-treatment population data set. At the request of the ERG, the manufacturer also provided the results for the outcomes using the ROCKET-AF intention-to-treat population dataset. The efficacy estimates from this network meta-analysis using the ROCKET-AF safety-on-treatment population data set were used in the manufacturer's cost-effectiveness analyses. 3.9 The ERG undertook an exploratory network meta-analysis comparing rivaroxaban with dabigatran etexilate, aspirin, placebo, and adjusted standard dose warfarin. It included data from 8 of the 18 studies from the manufacturer's network meta- analysis: • 1 comparing dabigatran etexilate with warfarin • 1 comparing rivaroxaban with warfarin • 3 comparing aspirin with warfarin • 3 comparing warfarin with placebo. The ERG judged that including only these 8 trials would reduce the amount of heterogeneity in the network. Only dosing strategies that the ERG considered to be comparable were included (that is, rivaroxaban 20 mg per day, dabigatran etexilate 150 mg twice a day, aspirin 300 mg per day, and adjusted dose warfarin aiming at a target INR range between 2 and 3). Dabigatran etexilate at a dose of 110 mg twice daily was not included in the analysis because the economic model could not accommodate a dosing regimen in which the dose is reduced from 150 mg twice daily to 110 mg twice daily when the patient reaches the age of 80 years. A fixed-effect model was used because of the high degree of homogeneity between the included trials. The efficacy estimates from this network meta-analysis were used in the ERG's cost-effectiveness analyses. 3.10 The manufacturer developed a Markov model that compares rivaroxaban (20 mg once a day) with warfarin (adjusted dose warfarin at 4.5 mg once a day, target INR 2.5, range 2.0 to 3.0), aspirin (150 mg once a day), dabigatran etexilate (110 mg to 150 mg twice a day) and no treatment. The population in the model is the same as the ROCKET-AF safety-on-treatment population. The model has a lifetime time horizon and a UK NHS perspective. 3.11 The model included the following health states: • anticoagulant initiation • stable atrial fibrillation (on or off therapy) • minor stroke (on or off therapy) • major stroke (on or off therapy) • post minor stroke (on therapy) • post major stroke (on therapy) • minor bleed (on or off therapy) • major bleed (on or off therapy) • intracranial bleed (on or off therapy) • post intracranial bleed
