Rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in people with atrial
KEYWORDS: warfarin, rivaroxaban, manufacturer, committee, erg, population, people, model, trial, risk, stroke, analysis, compared, noted, rocket-af


post major stroke (on therapy) • minor bleed (on or off therapy) • major bleed (on or off therapy) • intracranial bleed (on or off therapy) • post intracranial bleed (on or off therapy) • systemic embolism (on or off therapy) • myocardial infarction (on or off therapy) • post myocardial infarction (on or off therapy) • death. The ROCKET-AF trial results for the safety-on-treatment population were used to inform the efficacy estimates for rivaroxaban compared with warfarin, rivaroxaban compared with warfarin in people whose atrial fibrillation is poorly controlled on warfarin, and the vitamin K antagonist-naive model populations. The characteristics of the population for the analyses of rivaroxaban compared with aspirin, dabigatran etexilate and no treatment were based on the patient characteristics of a UK GP practice-based survey (Gallagher et al. 2008). Efficacy estimates for rivaroxaban compared with dabigatran etexilate and aspirin were obtained from the manufacturer's network meta-analysis. 3.12 The manufacturer classified all model events as either transient or permanent depending on associated long-term costs and consequences: • Systemic embolism, minor extracranial bleeds and major extracranial bleeds were assumed to have no lasting clinical or economic consequences and as such were considered transient events in the model. • Minor stroke, major stroke, intracranial bleeding and myocardial infarction were considered by the manufacturer to be permanent events, in the sense that they have lasting clinical and economic consequences. Consequently, the manufacturer developed post-event health states to account for the different risks, costs and utilities associated with surviving a permanent event. 3.13 The manufacturer highlighted that increasing age was an important risk factor for ischaemic stroke and systemic embolism, and adjusted the baseline risk of these events to account for patients aging as they move through the model. Risks were calculated using the Framingham risk equations. In the model, a weighted average relative risk (weighted by the proportion of patients in each risk group at initiation) is calculated for each age group and applied to the baseline risk as patients enter that age group. The risks of extracranial bleeding, intracranial bleeding and myocardial infarction were assumed to be independent of time and, therefore, were not adjusted for. 3.14 The baseline risk of each event was adjusted according to the treatment regimen the patient was receiving. Patients may stop their primary therapy and switch to a pre-specified secondary therapy at any time, although the risk adjustment applied for the remainder of
