Rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in people with atrial
KEYWORDS: warfarin, rivaroxaban, manufacturer, committee, erg, population, people, model, trial, risk, stroke, analysis, compared, noted, rocket-af


regimen the patient was receiving. Patients may stop their primary therapy and switch to a pre-specified secondary therapy at any time, although the risk adjustment applied for the remainder of that cycle is that of the primary therapy. The probabilities of treatment discontinuation for warfarin and rivaroxaban were based on data from the ROCKET-AF trial. The manufacturer assumed that treatment-discontinuation rates for aspirin, dabigatran etexilate and placebo were equivalent to that for rivaroxaban, given the similarity of administration between these interventions. 3.15 The health-state utility values and treatment-related utility values in atrial fibrillation were obtained from published sources identified by a systematic literature search. The ROCKET-AF trial did not include a generic measure of health-related quality of life (such as the EQ-5D) that could be used to estimate utilities in the model. The estimates of resources and costs were obtained from NHS reference costs for 2009 to 2010 and systematic literature searching. The manufacturer's model categorised monitoring costs into the following distinct phases: initiation, maintenance, and re-initiation. The manufacturer's model calculated the quarterly cost of initiation, maintenance and re-initiation by taking a weighted average of each cost; the costs of the individual phases were weighted by the proportion of people treated in primary and secondary care, as indicated by the manufacturer's survey. The resulting annual cost estimates for warfarin monitoring were £663 (£448 in primary care and £215 in secondary care) for the first year and £525 (£359 in primary care and £166 in secondary care) for subsequent years. 3.16 The manufacturer's base-case analysis of rivaroxaban compared with warfarin used only statistically significant data from the ROCKET-AF safety-on-treatment population. The analysis produced an incremental cost of £740 and a QALY gain of 0.039 resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £18,883 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. The manufacturer also presented the results of 4 subgroup analyses: • For rivaroxaban compared with warfarin in people whose INR is poorly controlled on warfarin, rivaroxaban dominated (was more effective and cost less) warfarin. • For rivaroxaban compared with warfarin in people who had not previously received warfarin, the ICER was £15,494 per QALY gained. • For rivaroxaban compared with aspirin, the ICER was £2,083 per QALY gained. • For rivaroxaban compared with dabigatran etexilate, rivaroxaban dominated dabigatran etexilate. The manufacturer carried out univariate sensitivity analysis on the base case, scenario analyses and subgroup analyses. The main drivers of the model results
