Rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in people with atrial
KEYWORDS: warfarin, rivaroxaban, manufacturer, committee, erg, population, people, model, trial, risk, stroke, analysis, compared, noted, rocket-af


with dabigatran etexilate, rivaroxaban dominated dabigatran etexilate. The manufacturer carried out univariate sensitivity analysis on the base case, scenario analyses and subgroup analyses. The main drivers of the model results were consistent across analyses, with the cost of warfarin monitoring in primary care having a major impact on all ROCKET-AF-based analyses. The probabilistic sensitivity analyses indicated that, using the base case, rivaroxaban had a 75% probability of being cost effective at a maximum acceptable ICER of £20,000 per QALY gained and an 88% probability at £30,000 per QALY gained. The manufacturer's scenario analysis of rivaroxaban compared with warfarin used all point estimates from the ROCKET-AF safety-on-treatment population regardless of their statistical significance (that is, both statistically significant and non-statistically significant point estimates were used). The resulting ICER was £8,732 per QALY gained. 3.17 In the ERG's view, a Markov model was an appropriate choice for modelling the chronic condition of atrial fibrillation. The ERG noted that the manufacturer chose a cycle length of 3 months and that only 1 event per 3-month cycle was possible because of the nature of the model. The manufacturer acknowledged that, in reality, people may experience more than 1 event in 3 months, but clinical opinion was that the probability of this would be low. The ERG agreed that assuming 1 event per model cycle was necessary and reasonable. However, the ERG noted that the manufacturer's model also suspends the risk of further events in the subsequent model cycle. The ERG considered that this additional suspension of risk was likely to bias the analysis against the more effective treatment because the overall event rate would be lower, and the potential to demonstrate clinical and economic benefits would also be lower. 3.18 The ERG identified the following limitations to the model's structural assumptions and parameter sources: • not separating out the number of hospital visits needed by people who were within and outside recommended INR control • not adjusting risk of bleeding by age; not adjusting utility by age • the source of myocardial infarction risk for people treated with aspirin • out of date source of post-myocardial infarction mortality risk • double counting of re-initiation costs of warfarin monitoring • suspending the risk of further events for the subsequent model cycle after an event • excluding transient ischaemic attack as a potential event. 3.19 The ERG presented an exploratory analysis in which, if possible, adjustments
