Rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in people with atrial
KEYWORDS: warfarin, rivaroxaban, manufacturer, committee, erg, population, people, model, trial, risk, stroke, analysis, compared, noted, rocket-af


events for the subsequent model cycle after an event • excluding transient ischaemic attack as a potential event. 3.19 The ERG presented an exploratory analysis in which, if possible, adjustments were made to account for the limitations identified (see section 3.18). The analysis for rivaroxaban compared with warfarin produced an incremental cost of £1,134 and a QALY gain of 0.034, resulting in an ICER of £33,758 per QALY gained. Similarly, for warfarin-naive people, after incorporating the ERG's model adjustments, the ICER for rivaroxaban compared with warfarin increased from £15,494 to £29,894 per QALY gained. However, rivaroxaban remained dominant in people whose INR was poorly controlled on warfarin after the ERG's model adjustments were incorporated. The structure of the manufacturer's model meant it wasn't possible to remove risk suspension or add transient ischaemic attack as a potential event. Consequently, the ERG was unable to fully quantify the impact of these limitations on the ICERs. However, the ERG considered that suspending risk and excluding transient ischaemic attack as an event would favour rivaroxaban (that is, the removal of these limitations would decrease the ICER for rivaroxaban compared with warfarin), because warfarin is generally less effective than rivaroxaban (based on the safety-on-treatment population of ROCKET-AF). 3.20 In the ERG's view, the manufacturer's base-case model is driven by the cost of anticoagulation monitoring rather than the differential effectiveness of rivaroxaban and warfarin. The ROCKET-AF trial showed that, for most outcomes, there was no statistically significant difference between rivaroxaban and warfarin. The ERG highlighted that when the cost of anticoagulation monitoring was separated out by INR range the ICER substantially increased from £18,883 per QALY gained to £27,281 per QALY gained. In addition, the ERG's scenario analysis using the alternative anticoagulation monitoring costs of £242 per person (discussed by the Committee in the ongoing appraisal of dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in atrial fibrillation) increased the ICER to £62,568 per QALY gained. 3.21 The ERG was concerned that the trials included in the network meta-analysis presented by the manufacturer to compare rivaroxaban with aspirin and dabigatran etexilate were heterogeneous. The high levels of heterogeneity were not shown when the ERG conducted its own network meta-analysis restricting the network to the comparators specified in the final scope. When the ERG applied the treatment effects estimated by its network meta-analysis to the manufacturer's model, and a full incremental analysis of rivaroxaban, dabigatran
