Rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in people with atrial
KEYWORDS: warfarin, rivaroxaban, manufacturer, committee, erg, population, people, model, trial, risk, stroke, analysis, compared, noted, rocket-af


comparators specified in the final scope. When the ERG applied the treatment effects estimated by its network meta-analysis to the manufacturer's model, and a full incremental analysis of rivaroxaban, dabigatran etexilate, warfarin and aspirin was conducted, an ICER of £34,680 per QALY gained was obtained for dabigatran etexilate compared with rivaroxaban, whereas rivaroxaban had dominated dabigatran etexilate in the manufacturer's analysis. The ERG applied further adjustments to account for the following limitations: • the absence of a post-systemic embolism health state • not adjusting bleeding risk by age • not adjusting utility by age • out of date source of post-myocardial infarction mortality risk • assuming equivalent discontinuation rates. This reduced the ICER to £12,701 per QALY gained for dabigatran etexilate compared with rivaroxaban. Exploratory analysis assuming an equivalent ability of rivaroxaban and dabigatran etexilate to prevent myocardial infarction further decreased the ICER to £3,578 per QALY gained for dabigatran etexilate compared with rivaroxaban. 3.22 The ERG noted the presence of potential biases in the model, with limitations of risk suspension and the absence of transient ischaemic attack and dyspepsia as adverse reactions. Removing risk suspension is likely to favour dabigatran etexilate whereas including transient ischaemic attack and dyspepsia is likely to reduce the ICER for rivaroxaban compared with dabigatran etexilate. Furthermore, the ERG noted that there is a large amount of uncertainty in the model and that the model is highly sensitive to even small changes to the discontinuation rates. Therefore, the ERG concluded that the results of the probabilistic sensitivity analysis should be taken into account when considering its alternative ICER for dabigatran etexilate compared with rivaroxaban. The probabilistic sensitivity analysis indicated that dabigatran etexilate was dominant in 45% of the 1,000 runs and dominated in 35% of runs. Manufacturer's additional analyses 3.23 The manufacturer provided additional analyses in response to the Appraisal Committee's request for further clarification on the cost effectiveness of rivaroxaban presented in the appraisal consultation document. The manufacturer provided a revised cost-effectiveness analysis incorporating the following amendments requested by the Appraisal Committee: • data from the General Practice Research Database to provide event rates according to baseline level of stroke risk and the distribution of patients with different CHADS scores from the study of Gallagher et al. (2008) 2 • all the efficacy point estimates from the safety-on-treatment population of the ROCKET-AF trial • revised event rate in the warfarin arm to reflect the
