Rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in people with atrial
KEYWORDS: warfarin, rivaroxaban, manufacturer, committee, erg, population, people, model, trial, risk, stroke, analysis, compared, noted, rocket-af


Gallagher et al. (2008) 2 • all the efficacy point estimates from the safety-on-treatment population of the ROCKET-AF trial • revised event rate in the warfarin arm to reflect the time in therapeutic range achieved in trial centres in western Europe (60.62%) • fixed annual warfarin INR monitoring cost of £242 per person in the sensitivity analysis only. 3.24 In addition to the amendments requested by the Appraisal Committee, the manufacturer also amended the model to include the following: • Revised annual warfarin INR monitoring cost of £580. The manufacturer used the same unit costs as the original model; however, the number of visits needed for the re-initiation was reduced from 7 to 5 per 3-month cycle. The costs associated with warfarin monitoring in primary care in the updated model were £175.50 for initiation of warfarin (calculated as a weighted average of patients who had, and had not received previous warfarin), £135 for maintenance on warfarin and £135 for re-initiation of warfarin. • Case fatality rates of 90 days instead of the 30-day rates in the original model. • Updated 'real world' discontinuation rates. For warfarin these came from the General Practice Research Database. For rivaroxaban they were calculated by applying relative risks from the General Practice Research Database to discontinuation rates from the ROCKET-AF trial. • Treatment-related disutility applied to warfarin of 0.05. This was obtained from a study evaluating how patients with atrial fibrillation (attending GP- and hospital-led clinics) value different health outcomes. The disutility figures for warfarin were weighted by the UK distribution of primary and secondary care anticoagulation management. • Updated results for rivaroxaban compared with aspirin based on an additional indirect comparison. This comparison used only trials comparing rivaroxaban with warfarin and warfarin with aspirin, to reduce the network heterogeneity. 3.25 The manufacturer presented the following cost-effectiveness results when all the amendments in sections 3.23 and 3.24 were applied, with an annual warfarin INR monitoring cost of £580 (that is, excluding the Appraisal Committee's request to incorporate a fixed annual warfarin INR monitoring cost of £242 per person): • for rivaroxaban versus warfarin in the licensed population (the population with 1 or more risk factors for stroke), an incremental cost of £705, an incremental QALY of 0.2459 resulting in an ICER of £2,869 per QALY gained • for rivaroxaban versus warfarin in the population whose INR is poorly controlled on warfarin, rivaroxaban dominated warfarin •
