Rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in people with atrial
KEYWORDS: warfarin, rivaroxaban, manufacturer, committee, erg, population, people, model, trial, risk, stroke, analysis, compared, noted, rocket-af


of 0.2459 resulting in an ICER of £2,869 per QALY gained • for rivaroxaban versus warfarin in the population whose INR is poorly controlled on warfarin, rivaroxaban dominated warfarin • for rivaroxaban versus warfarin in the population for whom warfarin is considered unsuitable, the ICER was £9,170 per QALY gained. 3.26 The manufacturer presented the following cost-effectiveness results when all the amendments detailed in sections 3.23 and 3.24 were applied, with an annual warfarin INR monitoring cost of £242 per person (that is, including all of the Appraisal Committee's requests): • for rivaroxaban versus warfarin in the licensed population (the population with 1 or more risk factors for stroke), an incremental cost of £2,220, a QALY gain of 0.2459 resulting in an ICER of £9,031 per QALY gained • for rivaroxaban versus warfarin in the population whose INR is poorly controlled on warfarin, the ICER was £4,350 per QALY gained. 3.27 The ERG provided a critique and exploratory analysis of the manufacturer's additional analyses. The ERG agreed that the manufacturer had adequately provided a model cohort representative of people with atrial fibrillation in the UK, and that the analysis was based on all efficacy point estimates from the ROCKET- AF trial. The ERG also agreed that it was reasonable to use a discontinuation rate of 5 and a 90-day case fatality rate in the model. However, the ERG noted that the Committee's request to evaluate the effect of low time in therapeutic range was addressed as an amendment to the base case rather than the subgroup analysis requested. The ERG noted that varying the risk of stroke and systemic embolism according to level of INR control resulted in an increase in the ICER of £3,742 per QALY gained. 3.28 In the ERG's view, the manufacturer's inclusion of a disutility for warfarin in the model was not appropriate. The ERG noted that the manufacturer had not provided any justification for the assumption that no disutility is associated with rivaroxaban, aspirin or dabigatran etexilate. The ERG pointed out that there is evidence of disutility associated with other oral anticoagulants such as dabigatran etexilate and therefore it is unreasonable to assume there is no disutility associated with rivaroxaban. The ERG found that removing the disutility for warfarin has a substantial impact on the ICER, increasing it from £2,869 to £10,764 per QALY gained. 3.29 The ERG re-ran the manufacturer's updated cost-effectiveness analysis. The
