Rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in people with atrial
KEYWORDS: warfarin, rivaroxaban, manufacturer, committee, erg, population, people, model, trial, risk, stroke, analysis, compared, noted, rocket-af


the disutility for warfarin has a substantial impact on the ICER, increasing it from £2,869 to £10,764 per QALY gained. 3.29 The ERG re-ran the manufacturer's updated cost-effectiveness analysis. The ERG noted that in both the original and updated models the manufacturer had categorised systemic embolism as a temporary event. The ERG judged that in order to adequately approximate a post-systemic embolism health state (which would account for the increased risk of stroke following a systemic embolism) it was appropriate to amend the model so that after a systemic embolism patients move into the post-minor stroke health state. The ERG also noted that the manufacturer's updated model continues to use the out-of-date source of post- myocardial infarction mortality risk. The ERG judged that it was more appropriate to use an updated mortality risk post myocardial infarction that took account of current use of statins. The ERG's analysis included a fixed annual warfarin INR monitoring cost of £242 per person as requested by the Appraisal Committee (see section 3.23) but did not include any disutility associated with warfarin or any other treatment (see section 3.24). The ERG's revised analysis for rivaroxaban compared with warfarin produced an incremental cost of £1,815, an incremental QALY of 0.061 and an ICER of £29,537 per QALY gained. 3.30 See the manufacturer's submission and the ERG report for full details of all the evidence. 4 Consideration of the evidence 4.1 The Appraisal Committee reviewed the data available on the clinical and cost effectiveness of rivaroxaban, having considered evidence on the nature of stroke and systemic embolism and the value placed on the benefits of rivaroxaban by people with atrial fibrillation, those who represent them, and clinical specialists. It also took into account the effective use of NHS resources. 4.2 The Committee was aware that the main concerns for people with atrial fibrillation were fear of having a stroke and anxiety about the difficulty of keeping the INR within the therapeutic range. The Committee heard from the clinical specialists, patient experts and from comments received during consultation that the current standard treatment for preventing stroke and systemic embolism in people with atrial fibrillation is warfarin, and that because aspirin is less effective it is used only in people for whom warfarin is unsuitable. The Committee also heard that warfarin, although an effective treatment, it is associated with a number of problems. The Committee was aware from the
