Rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in people with atrial
KEYWORDS: warfarin, rivaroxaban, manufacturer, committee, erg, population, people, model, trial, risk, stroke, analysis, compared, noted, rocket-af


people for whom warfarin is unsuitable. The Committee also heard that warfarin, although an effective treatment, it is associated with a number of problems. The Committee was aware from the patient expert and from comments received during consultation that taking warfarin adversely affects quality of life. This is because people taking warfarin often worry about their level of INR control and they might find regular GP and hospital visits disruptive and inconvenient. The Committee heard from the clinical specialists that a substantial proportion of people taking warfarin have poorly controlled INR and are often not within the target therapeutic range at any 1 time. In particular, older people with atrial fibrillation are more likely to have poorly controlled INR because of comorbidities. The clinical specialists also explained that the need for regular monitoring and dose adjustments, occasionally involving complicated regimens such as different doses on alternate days, can cause difficulties with adherence to treatment. The Committee recognised the potential benefits of alternatives such as rivaroxaban for people with atrial fibrillation, including the positive effect on quality of life of removing the restrictions and difficulties associated with taking warfarin. 4.3 The Committee considered the clinical-effectiveness data from the ROCKET-AF trial comparing rivaroxaban with warfarin. It noted that this study was the basis of the clinical-effectiveness evidence in the manufacturer's submission. The Committee noted that the efficacy analysis in the manufacturer's submission had been undertaken on 3 different populations in the ROCKET-AF trial, the intention- to-treat set (all randomised patients), the safety-on-treatment set (all intention- to-treat patients who had taken at least 1 dose of study drug and were followed for events) and the per-protocol set (all intention-to-treat patients excluding those who have major pre-defined protocol deviations). The Committee noted that the manufacturer had presented data from the safety-on-treatment population for its primary analyses. The Committee heard from the clinical specialists that using a trial intention-to-treat population was considered to be the gold standard for estimating clinical effectiveness in a superiority trial, but the primary objective of ROCKET-AF was to establish non-inferiority of rivaroxaban compared with warfarin so the primary analysis was different. The Committee noted the comments received during consultation that suggested that it would be more appropriate to consider the intention-to-treat population rather than the safety-on-treatment population. The Committee reconsidered which of the 2 study populations was the most appropriate. The Committee noted that the intention-to-treat population included people who
