Rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in people with atrial
KEYWORDS: warfarin, rivaroxaban, manufacturer, committee, erg, population, people, model, trial, risk, stroke, analysis, compared, noted, rocket-af


intention-to-treat population rather than the safety-on-treatment population. The Committee reconsidered which of the 2 study populations was the most appropriate. The Committee noted that the intention-to-treat population included people who had either had no treatment or switched treatment during the trial, and agreed that the estimates derived from the safety-on-treatment population of the ROCKET-AF trial provided an adequate basis for evaluating clinical effectiveness. 4.4 The Committee noted that a key uncertainty highlighted by the ERG was the generalisability of the results of ROCKET-AF to people diagnosed with atrial fibrillation in the NHS. The Committee noted that the mean time in therapeutic range for the INR range of 2.0 to 3.0 for warfarin was 55% for the safety-on- treatment population in the ROCKET-AF trial. The clinical specialists confirmed this could be considered to be around the lower end of the level of control that would be expected in UK clinical practice, but there is considerable variation between different centres and also between different settings, depending on the patient group. The Committee noted that the ROCKET-AF trial had been undertaken in a number of countries, which did not all achieve similar levels of time in therapeutic range. The majority (66.5%) of the participants were recruited from centres in eastern Europe, Latin America and Asia, and in these centres the proportion of time in therapeutic range was lower than in the centres in North America and western Europe. The Committee was concerned that the effectiveness of warfarin could be underestimated if the proportion of time in therapeutic range was low, and that the UK context might be better reflected by results from centres where the time in therapeutic range in the warfarin arm more closely matched the usual levels in the UK. The Committee concluded that the trial results were broadly applicable to a UK setting, but for those already taking warfarin the current level of INR control should be taken into account in any decision to switch to rivaroxaban. 4.5 The Committee also noted that patients in the ROCKET-AF trial had a mean CHADS score of 3.47, and that an inclusion criterion of the trial was a baseline 2 CHADS score of 2 or more. The scope specified that the appraisal population 2 would be people with a medium to high risk of stroke. The clinical specialists confirmed that people with a CHADS score of 3 or more would be at high
