Rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in people with atrial
KEYWORDS: warfarin, rivaroxaban, manufacturer, committee, erg, population, people, model, trial, risk, stroke, analysis, compared, noted, rocket-af


2 would be people with a medium to high risk of stroke. The clinical specialists confirmed that people with a CHADS score of 3 or more would be at high risk of 2 stroke and that this population was typical of people seen in secondary care. However, this did not necessarily represent people with atrial fibrillation treated in primary care, who tended to have a lower risk of stroke. The Committee heard that people with atrial fibrillation treated with warfarin in primary care often have a CHADS score of less than 2 and that it is estimated that between 20 and 75% 2 of people with atrial fibrillation and a CHADS score of less than 2 are prescribed 2 warfarin in the UK. Only 0.02% of the trial population had a CHADS score less 2 than 2. The clinical specialists agreed that it was likely that although people with a CHADS score of 2 or more would benefit similarly to those in the ROCKET-AF 2 trial, this cannot be assumed for people with a CHADS score of less than 2. The 2 Committee noted the comments received during consultation that suggested that consultees and commentators had differing opinions on the generalisability of the results of ROCKET-AF to UK clinical practice. The Committee was made aware by the manufacturer that a systematic review of the literature had suggested that there does not appear to be an interaction between treatment effect and baseline CHADS risk. The Committee heard from the manufacturer that rivaroxaban would 2 be indicated for atrial fibrillation in people with 1 or more risk factors for stroke, which equates to a CHADS score of 1 or more. The Committee noted that the 2 European Medicines Agency had stated in the 'European public assessment report' for rivaroxaban that efficacy results were essentially consistent in important subgroups, such as different CHADS scores (CHADS scores 2 to 2 2 6).The Committee accepted that, given the broad spectrum of risk covered by the licensed indication for rivaroxaban, there was no plausible reason to expect that the results of ROCKET-AF would not translate to people with a lower CHADS 2 score. However, the Committee was mindful of the very small number of patients recruited to the ROCKET-AF trial with a baseline CHADS score of less than 2, but 2 concluded that the results of the ROCKET-AF trial were generalisable to UK clinical practice. 4.6
