Rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in people with atrial
KEYWORDS: warfarin, rivaroxaban, manufacturer, committee, erg, population, people, model, trial, risk, stroke, analysis, compared, noted, rocket-af


to the ROCKET-AF trial with a baseline CHADS score of less than 2, but 2 concluded that the results of the ROCKET-AF trial were generalisable to UK clinical practice. 4.6 The Committee discussed the safety data from the ROCKET-AF trial. It noted that analysis of the primary safety end point of all major and non-major clinically significant bleeding events showed no significant differences between rivaroxaban and warfarin. There was a significant reduction in the rate of fatal bleeds and intracranial haemorrhage with rivaroxaban compared with warfarin, but a higher rate of gastrointestinal bleeds. The Committee heard from the patient experts that intracranial bleeds were considered to be a more serious complication than gastrointestinal bleeds in clinical practice, because they were more difficult to treat and often result in permanent disability. The Committee noted that the possible uncertainty in these results related to the relatively low proportion of time in therapeutic range of 55% in the warfarin arm of the trial, but concluded that the primary safety end point showed no statistically significant difference between rivaroxaban and warfarin. 4.7 The Committee then discussed the indirect clinical-effectiveness evidence for rivaroxaban compared with dabigatran etexilate and aspirin. The Committee noted that the population in the study comparing dabigatran etexilate with warfarin (RE-LY) had a lower risk of stroke (mean CHADS score 2.1) than the 2 population in the ROCKET-AF trial (mean CHADS score of 3.47). The Committee 2 noted that the manufacturer's interpretation of its network meta-analysis was that there was no significant difference between rivaroxaban and dabigatran etexilate for any outcome. The Committee noted the ERG's concerns about the validity of the manufacturer's network meta-analysis because of the clinical heterogeneity of the included trials, and the different levels of time in therapeutic range in the warfarin arms of the rivaroxaban and dabigatran etexilate trials. The Committee also noted that both the manufacturer's and ERG's network meta- analyses contained wide confidence intervals, and therefore the resulting efficacy point estimates were subject to considerable uncertainty. The Committee noted the comments received during consultation suggesting that the Committee should reconsider the value of the network meta-analysis. The Committee also noted the additional indirect comparison submitted by the manufacturer during consultation comparing rivaroxaban with aspirin. The Committee reconsidered the data from the manufacturer's and ERG's network meta-analyses and considered the manufacturer's additional indirect comparison comparing rivaroxaban with aspirin. The Committee concluded that it would not consider
