Rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in people with atrial
KEYWORDS: warfarin, rivaroxaban, manufacturer, committee, erg, population, people, model, trial, risk, stroke, analysis, compared, noted, rocket-af


Committee reconsidered the data from the manufacturer's and ERG's network meta-analyses and considered the manufacturer's additional indirect comparison comparing rivaroxaban with aspirin. The Committee concluded that it would not consider further the clinical effectiveness of rivaroxaban compared with aspirin or dabigatran etexilate. 4.8 The Committee considered the manufacturer's updated base-case analysis for rivaroxaban compared with warfarin for the licensed population. The Committee noted the ERG's comments on the manufacturer's updated cost-effectiveness analyses and the ERG's revised base-case analysis. The Committee noted that the manufacturer presented an ICER of £2,870 per QALY gained (see section 3.25) and the ERG presented an ICER of £29,500 per QALY gained (see section 3.29). The Committee was made aware by both the manufacturer and the ERG that the difference in the ICERs resulted from 2 main factors. One was the manufacturer's inclusion in its updated analysis of a disutility value associated with warfarin treatment. The second was the different costs included by the manufacturer and ERG for warfarin monitoring (£580 and £242 respectively). 4.9 The Committee discussed the disutility values used in the manufacturer's updated economic analyses. It noted that the manufacturer had used a small study of 57 patients to justify including a disutility associated with warfarin. The Committee acknowledged that comments received during consultation implied that warfarin was associated with disadvantages. However, the Committee was mindful that the manufacturer had assumed that there was no disutility associated with rivaroxaban and had not provided any rationale for its exclusion. The Committee noted the comments from the ERG and consultees and commentators suggesting that there could be some disutility associated with newer anticoagulation therapy, including concerns about non-reversibility in the case of bleeding. However, the Committee noted that no specific evidence relating to disutility associated with anticoagulation therapy other than warfarin had been submitted by any consultees and commentators or by the ERG. The Committee therefore agreed that although it was appropriate to consider that there might be a disutility associated with warfarin treatment, it was not appropriate to assume that there was no disutility associated with rivaroxaban and other anticoagulant treatments. The Committee concluded that the disutility value used in the economic model for warfarin may have resulted in a bias in the manufacturer's economic analysis in favour of rivaroxaban. 4.10 The Committee discussed the costs associated with warfarin INR monitoring. The Committee noted that the manufacturer' model assumed an average annual anticoagulant monitoring
