Rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in people with atrial
KEYWORDS: warfarin, rivaroxaban, manufacturer, committee, erg, population, people, model, trial, risk, stroke, analysis, compared, noted, rocket-af


economic analysis in favour of rivaroxaban. 4.10 The Committee discussed the costs associated with warfarin INR monitoring. The Committee noted that the manufacturer' model assumed an average annual anticoagulant monitoring cost of £580 per person in the year that treatment is first initiated and £535 once the person is stabilised on warfarin. The clinical specialists agreed that the annual cost of anticoagulant monitoring for each person treated with warfarin was likely to be lower than the manufacturer's estimate in clinical practice, but a precise estimate could not be given because costs varied considerably between people (for example, they are higher in those with poor INR control) and between centres. The Committee was aware of the uncertainty, but in the interests of consistency had requested that the manufacturer use £242 in its economic model, in line with what it had accepted for the ongoing appraisal of dabigatran etexilate for the same indication. However, the Committee noted the comments received during consultation, which suggested that significant numbers of people have difficulties managing their INR control and could therefore visit a clinic for monitoring up to once a week, making 30 visits a year not implausible. The Committee also noted the manufacturer's comments highlighting its concerns about the plausibility of a cost of £242 per person. The Committee therefore agreed that £242 per person was likely to be a conservative estimate of annual anticoagulant monitoring for warfarin if fixed costs were fully included, and that there was uncertainty about the cost of warfarin INR monitoring in clinical practice. 4.11 The Committee considered what the most plausible ICER would be for rivaroxaban compared with warfarin. It noted the ICERs of £2,870 per QALY gained presented by the manufacturer (which included disutility associated with warfarin, and warfarin monitoring costs of £580) and £29,500 per QALY gained (which excluded disutility associated with warfarin, and used warfarin monitoring costs of £242) presented by the ERG. The Committee agreed that because there could be some degree of utility decrement associated with treatment, and the estimate of annual anticoagulation monitoring costs of £242 was likely to be conservative, the ICER for rivaroxaban compared with warfarin would be no more than £29,500 per QALY gained and would lie somewhere between £2,870 and £29,500 per QALY gained. The Committee therefore concluded that the most plausible ICER for the whole population eligible for rivaroxaban was within the range that could be considered
