424 EDITORIALS
KEYWORDS: testing, stis, men, sti, sexual, tests, information, new, www, infections, services, site, sexually, guidelines, health


of the disease burden of STIs. The fourth and fifth websites are both hesensitivityofnucleicacidampli- internet-based sexual health promotion T commercial or sponsored sites, http:// ficationtestshasmadeitpossibleto are hopefully reaching those at risk. www.mtv.comand usenon-invasivespecimens,suchas However, this trend in STI testing and se.com, with links toeducational infor- urineorvaginalswabs,forthediagnosis the lack of regulatory control should mation on STIs. All these sites give and screening for major bacterial sexu- raise considerable concern over the excellent educational information, but ally transmitted infections (STIs). As potential for false-positive or false- they all advise our teenager to go to a these specimens can be stored and negative results. It remains unclear doctororaclinic. transported at ambient temperatures, how many individuals with a positive She then changes her search term to there has been a proliferation of inter- result would access appropriate treat- ‘‘hometestingforSTDs’’.Thefirstsiteis net-based STI testing services that are ment and counselling, and notify their This is a advertisedasprivate,safeandconfiden- sexual partners for testing and treat- site set up by the City of Baltimore tial.Thetestsusedandthequalityofthe ment. There needs to be closer exam- Department of Health in collaboration testing on these internet services are ination of the implications of these withtheJohnsHopkinsMedicalSchool unknown. Simple rapid tests for STIs servicesonSTIcontrolprogrammes. to encourage women >14years of age arealsoavailableforpurchasefromthe Imagine a teenager who just discov- togettestedforchlamydia.Requestsfor internet or ‘‘over the counter’’ from eredthatshehasvaginaldischarge.She a chlamydia testing kit can be sent pharmaciesorstores.Veryfewcountries has been in two short sexual relation- through the internet, email or tele- regulateSTItestssold.Evenamongthe ships and has not been consistent with phone. A kit can be sent by mail or countries that regulate diagnostics for condom use. She is worried but is too pickedupatapharmacyorarecreation STIs, standards for evaluations are scared to tell her parents or her sexual centre. The kit consists of instructions lacking, with the result that product partners.Shedoesnotwanttogotoher for self-collection of a vaginal swab, a inserts often contain inflated claims of family doctor or be seen going to the shortquestionnaire,adacronswaband amailingtubefortheswabinaprepaid tions of some of the rapid chlamydial she goes on the internet to find out and gonococcal tests showed good spe- whatshecando.Shetypesinthesearch cificitybutlimitedsensitivity.Theinter- term, ‘‘testing for STDs’’. She looks up Abbreviations: NAAT,nucleicacid-amplified test;SDI,WorldHealthOrganizationSexually net has beenrecognised in recent years thefirstfivesitesthatcomeup. TransmittedDiseasesDiagnosticsInitiative;STI, as a new risk environment for STIs in The first site is sexuallytransmittedinfection;WHO,World both men and women, and efforts at know.org.ItisthesiteoftheAmerican HealthOrganization www.stijournal.com
