Bundle Branch Block and Fascicular Block
KEYWORDS: left, qrs, rbbb, second, block, bundle, lbbb, branch, bundle branch, ventricular, conduction, right, heart, myocardial, anterior


Bundle branch block is partial or complete interruption of impulse conduction in a bundle branch; fascicular block is similar interruption in a hemifascicle of the left bundle. The disorders often coexist. There are usually no symptoms, but presence of either suggests a heart disorder. Diagnosis is by electrocardiography. No specific treatment is indicated. Conduction blocks (see figure Electrical Pathway Through the Heart) can be caused by many heart disorders, including intrinsic degeneration without another associated heart disorder. 1/6 Electrical Pathway Through the Heart The sinoatrial (sinus) node (1) initiates an electrical impulse that flows through the right and left atria (2), making them contract. When the electrical impulse reaches the atrioventricular node (3), it is delayed slightly. The impulse then travels down the bundle of His (4), which divides into the right bundle branch for the right ventricle (5) and the left bundle branch for the left ventricle (5). The impulse then spreads through the ventricles, making them contract. In adults, the 2 ventricles are normally activated simultaneously such that the QRS duration is ≤ 0.11 second. When the ventricles are activated sequentially, the QRS duration is > 0.12 seconds. A wide QRS can result from activation of one ventricle early as in a rhythm originating in a ventricle (a ventricular rhythm or a ventricular paced rhythm) or as in ventricular pre-excitation (see figure Wolff-Parkinson- White Pattern) or from activating one ventricle late as in right or left bundle branch block. Right bundle branch block (RBBB—see figure Right Bundle Branch Block) criteria on the ECG in adults (1) are as follows: 2/6 A QRS duration ≥ 0.12 second rsr', rsR' or rSR' QRS pattern in leads V1 or V2 Delayed right ventricular activation time shown by a QRS onset to peak of last R wave time of > 0.05 second in lead V1 Normal left ventricular activation time shown by a QRS onset to peak of last R wave time of < 0.045 second in leads V5 and V6 S duration greater than R duration or S duration > 0.04 second in leads I and V6 RBBB produces secondary repolarization changes consisting of ST depression and T wave inversion particularly in V1. Incomplete right bundle branch block (also called right ventricular conduction delay) has the same ECG criteria as RBBB with a QRS duration > 0.11 second but < 0.12 second. When lead V1 shows a qR pattern while the
