Bundle Branch Block and Fascicular Block
KEYWORDS: left, qrs, rbbb, second, block, bundle, lbbb, branch, bundle branch, ventricular, conduction, right, heart, myocardial, anterior


ventricular conduction delay) has the same ECG criteria as RBBB with a QRS duration > 0.11 second but < 0.12 second. When lead V1 shows a qR pattern while the other criteria for RBBB are met, RBBB and septal myocardial infarction (or other septal damage) are diagnosed. RBBB can occur in people with no evidence of heart disease (2). It may also occur with anterior myocardial infarction, indicating substantial myocardial injury. Transient RBBB may occur after pulmonary embolism and indicates significant right ventricular dysfunction. The presence of RBBB should prompt a search for underlying cardiac pathology (2), but often none is found. Although RBBB distorts the QRS complex, it does not significantly interfere with ECG criteria of past myocardial infarction. In the absence of evidence of a heart disorder or more advanced interventricular conduction disturbance, RBBB does not appear to indicate a higher risk of future cardiovascular events. Also, isolated RBBB produces no symptoms. Thus, isolated RBBB requires no specific therapy (3). Right Bundle Branch Block Left bundle branch block (LBBB—see figure Left Bundle Branch Block) criteria on the ECG in adults are (1) 3/6 A QRS duration ≥ 0.12 second Broad notched or slurred R wave and absent Q waves in leads I, aVL, V5 and V6 Delayed left ventricular activation time shown by a QRS onset to peak of last R wave time of > 0.06 second in lead V5 and V6 Normal right ventricular activation time shown by a QRS onset to peak of last R wave time of < 0.035 second in lead V1 LBBB produces secondary repolarization changes consisting of ST and T wave deviation in the opposite direction of the QRS complex. Incomplete left bundle branch block (also called left ventricular conduction delay) has the same ECG criteria as LBBB with a QRS duration > 0.11 second but < 0.12 second. When lead aVL shows a significant q wave while the other criteria for LBBB are met, LBBB and septal myocardial infarction (or other septal damage) are diagnosed. Otherwise, LBBB precludes use of the usual ECG criteria of past myocardial infarction. LBBB is associated with a structural heart disorder more often than is RBBB and, in contrast to RBBB, LBBB is associated with a higher risk of future cardiac events and mortality. It may also occur with anterior myocardial infarction, indicating substantial myocardial injury. The presence of LBBB should prompt a search for underlying
