Bundle Branch Block and Fascicular Block
KEYWORDS: left, qrs, rbbb, second, block, bundle, lbbb, branch, bundle branch, ventricular, conduction, right, heart, myocardial, anterior


higher risk of future cardiac events and mortality. It may also occur with anterior myocardial infarction, indicating substantial myocardial injury. The presence of LBBB should prompt a search for underlying cardiac pathology, which is present more often than in patients with RBBB (3). Isolated LBBB rarely produces symptoms but may produce interventricular mechanical dyssynchrony that reduces the efficiency of left ventricular systolic function and may contribute to heart failure, particularly in association with other heart disorders that reduce left ventricular systolic function. Resynchronization pacing therapy is then of benefit (4). Left Bundle Branch Block Fascicular block involves the anterior or posterior fascicle of the left bundle branch. Interruption of the left anterior fascicle causes left anterior hemiblock characterized by (1) Modest QRS prolongation (< 0.12 second) A frontal plane QRS axis more negative than −45° (left axis deviation) 4/6 Overview of Bundle Branch Bloc... VIDEO A qR pattern in lead aVL Delayed left anterolateral ventricular activation time shown by a QRS onset to peak of last R wave time of > 0.045 second in lead aVL Interruption of the left posterior fascicle causes left posterior hemiblock characterized by (1) Modest QRS prolongation (< 0.12 second) A frontal plane QRS axis more positive than +120° An rS pattern in lead aVL A qR pattern in leads II and aVF The associations between hemiblocks and a structural heart disorder are the same as for LBBB. Isolated left posterior hemiblock is rare. Isolated left anterior hemiblock is more common and does not appear to be independently associated with an increased risk of future cardiac events or mortality. Hemiblocks may coexist with other conduction disturbances: RBBB and left anterior or posterior hemiblock (bifascicular block); and RBBB, left anterior or posterior hemiblock, and first-degree atrioventricular (AV) block (sometimes incorrectly called trifascicular block; incorrectly because first- degree block is usually AV nodal in origin). Trifascicular block refers to RBBB with alternating left anterior and left posterior hemiblock or alternating LBBB and RBBB. Presence of bifascicular or trifascicular block after myocardial infarction implies extensive cardiac damage. Bifascicular blocks require no direct treatment unless intermittent second- or third-degree AV block is present. True trifascicular blocks require immediate, then permanent pacing (3). Nonspecific intraventricular conduction defects are diagnosed when the QRS complex is prolonged (> 0.12 second), but the QRS pattern is not typical of LBBB or RBBB (1). The conduction delay may occur 5/6 beyond the Purkinje fibers
