Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


ABSTRACT Among the most important and complex systems in the human body are the endocrine and immune systems. Emerging research over the last decade has shed light on their remarkable interplay, revealing a multitude of bidirectional communication pathways and reciprocal regulation mechanisms. Endocrine diseases, such as autoimmune thyroiditis, diabetes mellitus type 1 and type 2, osteoporosis, and disorders of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, as well as endocrine malignancies, such as thyroid cancer, are highly interconnected with dysregulations of the immune system. Thus, multiple cytokines, chemokines, and evolving inflammatory processes are involved in the pathogenesis of immune-related endocrine disorders, providing potential targets for immune-based therapeutic approaches. In this chapter, we provide a comprehensive overview of the molecular mechanisms underlying these complex endocrine-immune interactions, and discuss the implications of immune system function or dysfunction in endocrine disorders. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION The immune system is a host defense system that comprises numerous biological structures and processes to defend the human body against potentially harmful substances and invading pathogens. It functions through a series of coordinated mechanisms, including innate and adaptive immunity. The innate immune response consists of i) phagocytosis by macrophages, neutrophils, monocytes, and dendritic cells, and ii) cytotoxicity by natural killer cells, providing an immediate, nonspecific defense against a wide range of invaders by recognizing common patterns shared by many pathogens ( 1 ). Adaptive immunity, on the other hand, is an acquired, specially designed defense system; it develops over time and utilizes highly specialized immune cells involving antibody-dependent complement or cell-mediated cytotoxicity produced by T cells that recognize injurious agents, such as heat shock proteins or microbial antigens. During adaptive immunity, antigens taken up by antigen-presenting cells (APCs) are presented to T cells through binding with major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules on the surface of these cells. Activated CD4 helper T cells stimulate the release of cytokines, such as interleukin (IL)-2, which i) induce T cell proliferation and activation, ii) stimulate killer cell activity by CD8 suppressor T cells, and iii) activate B cells to differentiate into plasma cells and produce antibodies. Naïve T cells differentiate mainly into two main subsets that produce a different set of cytokines and regulate distinct immune functions. T-helper 1 (Th1) cells produce mainly interferon-γ (IFN)-γ, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF)-, and IL-12 to regulate cell-mediated responses, while T-helper 2 (Th2) cells
