Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


of cytokines and regulate distinct immune functions. T-helper 1 (Th1) cells produce mainly interferon-γ (IFN)-γ, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF)-, and IL-12 to regulate cell-mediated responses, while T-helper 2 (Th2) cells secrete IL-4, IL-5, and IL-13, to stimulate antibody production. In addition, three other subsets of T helper cells have been identified: Th22, which secrete IL-22, Th17, which secrete IL-17, and Treg, which secrete transforming growth factor (TGF)- b, all of which also play a role in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases ( 2 ). Multiple regulatory mechanisms are involved in maintaining central and peripheral T and B cell tolerance ( 1 ). Defects in the processes that ensure immune cell tolerance may induce a maladaptive immune response to a self-antigen and lead to the development of autoimmune diseases. Emerging research of the last few decades has shed light on the remarkable interplay between endocrine and immune systems, revealing a multitude of bidirectional communication pathways and reciprocal regulation. Autoimmune endocrine diseases, such as Hashimoto thyroiditis, diabetes mellitus type 1 (DM1), and Addison disease, as well as endocrine malignancies, such as differentiated, anaplastic, and medullary thyroid cancer ( 3 ), and other endocrine disorders, including diabetes mellitus type 2 (DM2), osteoporosis, as well as a dysfunctional hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis response to stress and inflammation, are highly interconnected with dysregulations of the immune system. This chapter seeks to elucidate the interplay between the endocrine and immune systems, exploring their interconnections and highlighting the impact of their crosstalk on health and disease. We present a comprehensive overview of the molecular mechanisms underlying this interaction and discuss the potential therapeutic implications of targeting the immune system for the management of endocrine diseases. IMMUNE SYSTEM AND THYROID DISEASE Autoimmune Thyroid Disease Autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD) results from a dysregulation of the immune system that leads to loss of tolerance to thyroid antigens and to an autoimmune attack on the thyroid gland. The most common clinical manifestations of AITD are Hashimoto's thyroiditis and Graves’ disease, while less prevalent manifestations are drug-induced thyroiditis, postpartum thyroiditis, or thyroiditis associated with polyglandular syndromes (i.e., autoimmune polyglandular syndromes type 1 and type 2). The underlying molecular mechanisms of AITD involve both circulating autoantibodies and T cell immune mechanisms, while genetic background, as well as cross-reactivity to external antigens ( 4 - 6 ), are also implicated. There are three major thyroid autoantigens that are targeted during autoimmune thyroid attack and are
