Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


as well as cross-reactivity to external antigens ( 4 - 6 ), are also implicated. There are three major thyroid autoantigens that are targeted during autoimmune thyroid attack and are critical for thyroid homeostasis, namely, thyroglobulin (Tg), thyroid peroxidase (TPO), and the thyrotropin receptor (TSHR) ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1. Thyroid proteins that serve as autoantigens. Thyroglobulin (Tg) function as storage protein in thyroid cells, playing a critical role in the synthesis and release of thyroid hormones. Thyroid peroxidase (TPO) catalyzes iodination of tyrosines in thyroglobulin, which attaches one or two iodine molecules to form monoiodotyrosine (MIT) or diiodotyrosine (DIT), respectively. In addition, thyroid peroxidase catalyzes the coupling of iodotyrosine residues to form triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) attached to thyroglobulin. Thyrotropin receptor (TSHR) is a transmembrane G-protein coupled receptor that upon stimulation by circulating TSH activates the expression of downstream effector genes to regulate thyroid growth, thyrocyte differentiation, and thyroid hormone synthesis. Sodium/iodide symporter (NIS) is a membrane glycoprotein, which actively cotransports two sodium cations per each iodide anion, using the electrochemical sodium gradient generated by the Na+/K+-ATPase. Pendrin is involved in the apical iodide efflux in thyroid cells. It can also exchange chloride and bicarbonate. [Modified by Boguslawska et al ( 7 )]. Thyroglobulin is a soluble glycoprotein homodimer composed of two subunits of ~330 kDa in size and is the most abundant glycoprotein in the thyroid gland. It is the scaffold for the synthesis of thyroid hormones and the storage-form of thyroid hormones inside the gland. Recently, researchers described the first atomic structure of full-length Tg and identified its hormone-forming tyrosine residues ( 8 ). Anti-Tg antibodies (TgAb) act mainly through antibody-dependent cytotoxicity cells rather than through complement fixation ( 7 ). In AITD, the prevalent TgAb species recognize native rather than denatured antigens and bind to a number of overlapping epitopic domains located mainly in the central region and C-terminal end of Tg. Of note, TgAb in the serum of healthy subjects have a different epitopic pattern ( 9 ). Another major thyroid antigen is TPO, a glycosylated heme-containing homodimer of two 107-kDa transmembrane subunits located in the apical membrane of thyrocytes ( Figure 1 ). It catalyzes the iodination of tyrosyl residues in Tg and the coupling of iodotyrosine residues to form iodothyronines attached to Tg ( 10 ). Both humoral and cellular immune responses are directed against TPO. TPO autoantibodies (TPOAb) occur in
