Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


and the coupling of iodotyrosine residues to form iodothyronines attached to Tg ( 10 ). Both humoral and cellular immune responses are directed against TPO. TPO autoantibodies (TPOAb) occur in almost all patients with Hashimoto thyroiditis and approximately 75% of individuals with Graves’ disease ( 11 ). In addition, TPOAb may be involved in autoimmune thyroid cell death via antibody-dependent cytotoxic cells and C3 complement-mediated cytotoxicity ( 7 ). Specific patterns of TPOAb recognition remain stable in an individual over time and are genetically transmitted through family lineages ( 12 ). Thyrotropin receptor is primarily expressed on the basolateral membrane of thyrocytes ( Figure 1 ) and belongs to the transmembrane G protein-coupled receptor family. The intracellular signaling pathway that is activated by the interaction of TSH with TSHR is indispensable for the synthesis of thyroid hormones and the proliferation of follicular epithelial cells. TSHR-stimulating antibodies (TSAb) act as TSHR agonists and stimulate thyroid growth and production of thyroid hormone in an autonomous and unregulated manner. On the other hand, TSHR-blocking antibodies (TBAb) act as antagonists that block the intracellular signaling of TSH, leading to decrease of thyroid hormone synthesis and subsequently hypothyroidism. Neutral antibodies to TSHR, which may also be detected in the serum of patients with Graves’ disease, bind to the receptor but do not alter its activity ( 13 ). The exact antigenic sites of TSHR-specific TBAb and TSAb overlap and are mostly directed to the extracellular A subunit of the receptor ( Figure 1 ) ( 14 , 15 ). Other thyroid antigens include the iodide transporters, sodium iodide symporter (NIS), and pendrin ( Figure 1 ). The presence of NIS antibodies is increased in AITDs, especially in patients with Graves’ disease, whereas their expression in euthyroid individuals is rare ( 16 ). Pendrin is an apical membrane-bound iodide transporter, but the diagnostic value of antibodies against pendrin is rather low ( 16 ). Although the above-described circulating autoantibodies are useful markers of thyroid autoimmunity, it is the T cell immune mechanism, i.e., the loss of immune self-tolerance, that is the core of AITD pathophysiology. Loss of immune self-tolerance may result from either: i) the loss of central tolerance (i.e., disturbed deletion of autoreactive T cells in the thymus), ii) dysfunction of peripheral tolerance (i.e., impaired apoptosis of self-reactive T cells and inhibition of the activity of T-regulatory cells), or iii) disturbed energy (i.e., disturbance of
