Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


in the thymus), ii) dysfunction of peripheral tolerance (i.e., impaired apoptosis of self-reactive T cells and inhibition of the activity of T-regulatory cells), or iii) disturbed energy (i.e., disturbance of the functional inactivation that prevents the lymphocytes from activating an immune reaction against the antigen). Patients with AITD express IFN-γ-induced MHC class II molecules, which promotes the presentation of thyroid autoantigens and activates T cells ( 4 ). The subsequent infiltration of the thyroid gland by APCs (dendritic cells and macrophages) may be triggered by inflammation resulting from either viral or bacterial infection or exposure to toxins. The common mechanism involved in the initiation and perturbation of the inflammatory processes in AITDs and in other autoimmune endocrine diseases (e.g., type 1 diabetes and Addison disease) is the Th1-cytokine/chemokine axis ( 17 ). Upon activation, Th1 lymphocytes produce IFN-γ -and TNF-α, which stimulate thyrocytes and retroorbital cells (in Graves ophthalmopathy) to secrete chemokines (CXCL10, CXCL9, and CXCL11). Chemokines, in turn, bind and activate the CXCR3 receptor on Th1 cells and further enhance IFN-γ and TNF-α secretion in a positive feedback loop which aggravates recruitment and activation of inflammatory cells in the affected organs ( Figure 2 ). In advanced thyroiditis, the thyroid gland is infiltrated by B cells (representing up to 50% of the infiltrating immune cells), as well as cytotoxic T lymphocytes and CD4+ cells ( 7 ). Figure 2. Depiction of the molecular mechanism involved in the inflammatory processes in autoimmune thyroid diseases. Activation of Th1 lymphocytes by antigen presenting cells produce INF-γ -and IL-2 and 12, which stimulate thyrocytes and retroorbital cells to secrete chemokines (CXCL10, CXCL9, and CXCL11). Chemokines bind and activate the CXCR3 receptor on Th1 cells, further enhancing IFN-γ and ILs secretion. APC, antigen presenting cells; IFΝ-γ, interferon gamma; IL-2, interleukin 2; IL-12, interleukin-12; CXCR3, C-X-C Motif Chemokine Receptor 3. In Hashimoto thyroiditis, the humoral immune response is characterized by the presence of autoantibodies to TPO or Tg and is related to thyroid lymphocytic infiltration. These autoantibodies are themselves cytotoxic or may affect antigen processing or presentation to T cells. Th1 cells are the predominant T cell clones found in patients with Hashimoto thyroiditis: they promote apoptosis of thyrocytes through secretion of IL-12, TNF-α, and INF-γ, which activate cytotoxic T lymphocytes and macrophages ( 18 ). In addition, the Toll-like receptor-3 protein is overexpressed in human thyrocytes surrounded by immune cells in all patients with
