Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


INF-γ, which activate cytotoxic T lymphocytes and macrophages ( 18 ). In addition, the Toll-like receptor-3 protein is overexpressed in human thyrocytes surrounded by immune cells in all patients with Hashimoto thyroiditis, but not in Graves’ disease or in euthyroid individuals ( 17 ). In patients with Graves’ disease, the predominant antibodies are directed against the TSHR. T cells are activated through the presentation of TSHR peptides and, in turn, trigger B-cells and plasma cells that infiltrate the thyroid to produce autoantibodies directed against the TSHR. Activity of B-cells and plasma cells is also regulated by liver-produced insulin growth factor 1 (IGF1). In contrast to TPO and Tg, TSHR is widely expressed in extrathyroidal tissues and cells, including lymphocytes, adipose tissue, and fibroblasts. In consequence, the presence of TSHR antibodies contributes to the extrathyroidal manifestations of Graves’ disease, such as Graves ophthalmopathy, Graves dermopathy, and Graves-associated thymus hyperplasia ( 19 ). Particularly in Graves ophthalmopathy, the TSHR autoantigen is presented by macrophages and B cells recruited to the orbit ( 20 ). Activated T cells, in turn, initiate an immunological attack on the orbital fibroblasts expressing TSHR. In response to the cytokines released by Th cells, orbital fibroblasts and adipocytes —both expressing TSHR— produce and deposit large amounts of glycosaminoglycans (e.g., hyaluronan), leading to increased osmotic pressure and water uptake, swelling of the extraorbital muscles, and increased accumulation of orbital adipose tissue. The process is enhanced by the IGF1/IGF1R signaling pathway in fibroblasts and adipocytes, as well as the crosstalk between TSHR and IGF1R intracellular signaling ( 21 ). A similar molecular pathophysiology may underlie Graves dermopathy ( 19 ). NON-CODING RNAs In recent years, non-coding RNAs, which are known to modulate gene transcription at the post-transcriptional level, have attracted a great deal of attention as potential biomarkers in various endocrine diseases. Although the study of microRNAs and circular RNAs is still in its infancy, these newly discovered non-coding, single-stranded RNA molecules have been implicated in the development and progression of AITDs. A cluster of biomarkers consisting of miR-205/miR-20a-3p/miR-375/miR-296/miR-451/miR-500a/miR-326 has been reported to be differentially expressed in patients with Hashimoto thyroiditis ( 22 , 23 ). Similarly, multi-miRNA-based biomarkers, such as miR-762/miR-144-3p or miR-210/miR-155/miR-146, were differentially expressed in the serum of patients with Graves’ disease compared to healthy individuals. These dysregulated miRNAs can target key genes involved in the immune response and thyroid function. Regarding their prognostic role, higher miR-21-5p
