Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


of patients with Graves’ disease compared to healthy individuals. These dysregulated miRNAs can target key genes involved in the immune response and thyroid function. Regarding their prognostic role, higher miR-21-5p expression is associated with a worse prognosis for patients with Graves’ disease, whereas impaired expression of miR-155 correlates with the size of the goiter ( 22 , 24 ). Further understanding of the role of miRNAs in AITDs could provide valuable insights into disease mechanisms and potentially identify novel therapeutic targets. Data on other non-coding RNAs (such as long-noncoding RNAs and circular RNAs) are scarcer. Impaired expression of n335641, TCONS-00022357-xloc-010919, and n337845 was found in B cells of patients with Graves’ disease ( 25 ), while altered expression of 627 circRNAs in PBMCs of patients with Hashimoto thyroiditis has been tested for their potential prognostic value ( 26 ). GUT MICROBIOME Emerging evidence suggests that the composition and function of the gut microbiome may be involved in AITDs. The gut microbiome refers to the complex community of microorganisms residing in the gastrointestinal tract, which plays a vital role in various aspects of human health, such as prevention of intestinal colonization by pathogenic bacteria, fermentation/degradation of food debris, and production of nutrients. Studies have indicated that alterations in the gut microbiome can influence immune responses and contribute to the development of autoimmune diseases ( 7 ). In this context, dysbiosis, or an imbalance in the gut microbiota, has been observed in patients with Hashimoto thyroiditis and Graves’ disease, thus distinguishing them from healthy controls, while it was associated with the stage of disease, the level of thyroid autoantibodies, and the response to therapy. Targeting the microbiome through dietary interventions or probiotics may represent a promising potential therapeutic avenue. It is therefore of interest to note that in hypothyroid patients treated with LT4, symbiotic supplementation for 8 weeks resulted in decrease of TSH concentration and LT4 dose ( 27 ). Moreover, the results of a large clinical study, INDIGO, reported a significant effect of LAB4 probiotics on the gut microbiota composition of patients with Graves’ disease and a temporary reduction in the serum level of IgG and IgA antibodies ( 28 ). Further research involving patients from different populations is required to fully understand the relationship between the gut microbiome and AITDs and to explore potential strategies for intervention. Postpartum Thyroiditis Postpartum thyroiditis may occur up to 12 months after delivery. Usually
