Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


fully understand the relationship between the gut microbiome and AITDs and to explore potential strategies for intervention. Postpartum Thyroiditis Postpartum thyroiditis may occur up to 12 months after delivery. Usually it presents as transient hyperthyroidism (median time of onset, 13 weeks post-delivery), followed by transient hypothyroidism (median time of onset, 19 weeks post-delivery). In the majority of patients, restoration of normal thyroid function occurs. Pregnancy triggers hormonal changes and immune system alterations, such as a shift from Th1 to Th2 cytokine production followed by a "rebound" shift back to Th1 after delivery, and fluctuations in transforming growth factor-beta1 TGF-β1) serum levels ( 29 , 30 ). Anti-TPO and anti-Tg antibodies are found in almost all patients with postpartum thyroiditis. Notably, up to 50% of women who had anti-TPO antibodies at the end of the first trimester of gestation (i.e., before thyroid antibody titers start to decline during pregnancy) developed postpartum thyroiditis. Furthermore, there is evidence that the anti-TPO antibody titer at 16 weeks of gestation is related to the severity of postpartum thyroiditis ( 31 ), while activation of the complement is also involved in the pathogenesis ( 23 ). Euthyroid Sick Syndrome Euthyroid sick syndrome (ESS) is a condition characterized by alterations in thyroid hormone levels despite normal thyroid gland function. The characteristic laboratory abnormalities of the ESS include low T3 and/or fT3, elevated reverse T3 (rT3), normal or low TSH, and normal or low serum T4 or fT4 concentrations. Clinical conditions that trigger the development of ESS include systemic inflammation, myocardial infarction, starvation, sepsis, surgery, trauma, chronic degenerative diseases, malignancy, and every other condition associated with severe illness. During illness or periods of severe physiological stress, the immune system releases various proinflammatory cytokines, such as in IL-6, TNF-α, IL-1β, IFN-γ, and TGF-β2. These cytokines disrupt the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis and interfere with the normal synthesis, secretion, and metabolism of thyroid hormones ( Figure 3 ), while the more severe the illness, the more extensive the hormonal alterations. Figure 3. Secretion of proinflammatory cytokines during severe illness or stress inhibits the activity of hepatic deiodinase type 1- suppressing the peripheral conversion of T4 to T3. They also suppress intrathyroidal hormone synthesis, TRH release and TSH secretion from the pituitary. IL-6, interleukin-6; IL-1, interleukin-1; TNF-α, tumor necrosis factor alpha; INF-γ, interferon gamma; TGF-β, tumor growth factor beta; TG, thyroglobulin; NIS, sodium/iodide symporter; TSH, thyroid stimulating hormone; TRH, Thyrotropin-releasing hormone. Proinflammatory cytokines
