Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


interleukin-6; IL-1, interleukin-1; TNF-α, tumor necrosis factor alpha; INF-γ, interferon gamma; TGF-β, tumor growth factor beta; TG, thyroglobulin; NIS, sodium/iodide symporter; TSH, thyroid stimulating hormone; TRH, Thyrotropin-releasing hormone. Proinflammatory cytokines suppress the peripheral conversion of T4 to T3, resulting in low T3 levels and increase rT3 levels, by inhibiting the activity of hepatic deiodinase type 1, which promotes conversion of T4 to T3 and of rT3 to diiodothyronine ( 32 ). They also suppress TRH release and inhibit TSH response to TRH stimulation, leading to a decrease in TSH levels. Thus, the cause of the decreased T3 concentration in ESS is decreased T3 production, whereas the cause of the increased rT3 concentration is the result of impaired degradation. Prolonged and severe illness is marked by a decrease in circulating total T4 along with low T3 and high rT3, with very low T4 levels displaying a poor prognosis and having been associated with an increased mortality rate ( 32 ). In addition, cytokines reduce iodine uptake by inhibiting sodium-iodine symporter protein expression ( 25 - 27 ), and decrease thyrocyte growth ( 33 ), iodide organification ( 34 , 35 ), and thyroglobulin synthesis ( 36 , 37 ). The central role of cytokines in the pathophysiology of ESS has been further elucidated in studies involving cytokine administration to humans. TNF-α administration in healthy volunteers caused a decrease in serum T3 and an increase in serum rT3 concentration ( 38 ). Unlike IL-6, serum TNF-α levels did not correlate with any of the typical thyroid parameters, such as low T3, increased rT3, or decreased TSH levels seen in ESS ( 39 , 40 ), suggesting that the changes of thyroid hormone profile following TNF-α administration might be indirect (i.e., through TNF-α increase in circulating IL-6 levels). Furthermore, both IL-6 and TNF-α can upregulate type 2 deiodinase in the anterior pituitary, affecting TSH release and contributing to the development of the non-thyroidal illness syndrome ( 41 , 42 ). Leptin, a hormone primarily known for its role in regulating appetite and energy balance, has also been implicated in the development of EES. During acute illness or chronic inflammation, leptin levels are usually elevated. A link between leptin and the proinflammatory cytokines TNF-α and IL-6 in chronic inflammatory diseases, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( 43 ) and ankylosing spondylitis ( 44 ), respectively, has also been proposed previously. The primary effect
