Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


and IL-6 in chronic inflammatory diseases, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( 43 ) and ankylosing spondylitis ( 44 ), respectively, has also been proposed previously. The primary effect exerted by leptin on the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis is alteration of the setpoint for feedback sensitivity of hypophysiotropic TRH-producing neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus to thyroid hormones (mainly T3) by lowering of the setpoint when leptin levels are suppressed during fasting ( 45 ). Two anatomically distinct and functionally antagonistic populations of neurons in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus, α-melanocortin-stimulating hormone (α-MSH)-producing neurons that co-express cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript and neuropeptide Y (NPY)-producing neurons that co-express agouti-related peptide (AGRP), are responsible for the effects of leptin on hypophysiotropic TRH. It has also been proposed that leptin directly affects hypophysiotropic TRH neurons ( 46 ). Leptin has been found to inhibit the conversion of T4 to T3 in peripheral tissues and increase the activity of the enzyme type 3 deiodinase, which converts T4 to rT3. These data suggest that leptin can disturb thyroid function in seriously ill patients via two different independent mechanisms (cytokine-dependent and directly). Amiodarone-Induced Thyroid Disease Amiodarone, a benzofuran derivative with a similar structure to that of thyroid hormones, is a highly effective antiarrhythmic agent widely used in the treatment of various types of tachyarrhythmias (supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias). Amiodarone contains two iodine atoms per molecule, which is approximately 37.5% iodine by molecular weight ( 47 ). Treatment with amiodarone may be related to an increase in lymphocyte subsets leading to an exacerbation of pre-existing autoimmunity ( 48 , 49 ). The relative proportion of patients developing either thyrotoxicosis or hypothyroidism depends on the iodine content of the local diet and pre-existing thyroid autoimmunity. In relatively iodine-replete areas, approximately 25% of patients with amiodarone-induced thyroid dysfunction become thyrotoxic, accounting for approximately 3% of amiodarone-treated individuals ( 50 ). Amiodarone-induced hypothyroidism is attributed to an increased susceptibility to the inhibitory effect of iodide on thyroid hormone synthesis and/or to a failure to escape the Wolff-Chaikoff effect ( 49 ). Hashimoto thyroiditis is the most common risk factor for amiodarone-induced hypothyroidism and it is considered the most likely reason for the female preponderance of this clinical entity ( 51 ). Female patients with positive anti-TPO and anti-Tg autoantibodies have a relative risk of 13.5% for developing amiodarone-induced hypothyroidism compared to men without thyroid autoantibodies ( 20 ).
