Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


( 51 ). Female patients with positive anti-TPO and anti-Tg autoantibodies have a relative risk of 13.5% for developing amiodarone-induced hypothyroidism compared to men without thyroid autoantibodies ( 20 ). The pathogenesis of amiodarone-induced thyrotoxicosis is complex, although two distinct forms, type 1 and type 2, are recognized. Type 1 develops in patients with latent thyroid disease, predominantly nodular goiter, in whom the amiodarone iodine load triggers increased synthesis of thyroid hormones. Type 2 is the result of a destructive thyroiditis in a previously normal gland, with leakage of preformed thyroid hormones despite a reduction in hormone synthesis ( 47 , 50 , 52 , 53 ). Differentiating between the two types of amiodarone-induced thyrotoxicosis is an essential step in their management, as treatment of each type is different ( 50 ). Type 1 usually responds to thionamide therapy, which blocks hormone synthesis, and perchlorate, which blocks active transport of iodine into the thyroid, whereas type 2 responds to high-dose glucocorticoids ( 50 , 53 - 55 ). Nevertheless, several studies now suggest that these two types should be treated concomitantly; thus, currently, patients with amiodarone-induced thyrotoxicosis receive both antithyroid drugs and prednisolone. In cases resistant to medical treatment and/or in patients with severe cardiac diseases who cannot interrupt amiodarone or require quick amiodarone reintroduction, total thyroidectomy may be offered after rapid correction of thyrotoxicosis following combination treatment with thionamides, KClO4, glucocorticoids, and a short course of iopanoic acid ( 56 ). Thyroid Cancer Thyroid cancer is the most common endocrine cancer, the incidence of which has steadily increased over the past few decades ( 57 ). The association of chronic inflammation induced by Hashimoto thyroiditis and thyroid cancer has been long recognized ( 58 ). However, the immune response triggered against thyroid cancer and AITDs differs significantly. In thyroid cancer, the immune response is more tolerant and allows tumor growth, whereas in AITDs, the response is more aggressive, triggering cell destruction and reduction of the function of the gland ( 59 ). Hashimoto thyroiditis is considered both a risk factor for the development of thyroid cancer ( 60 ) and a favorable prognostic factor due to chronic lymphocytic infiltration, which can downregulate tumor aggressiveness ( 60 , 61 ). In Graves’ disease, the presence of a strong humoral immune response appears to be protective against thyroid cancer. Patients with increased anti-TPO and anti-Tg levels show lower distant metastasis rates
