Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


In Graves’ disease, the presence of a strong humoral immune response appears to be protective against thyroid cancer. Patients with increased anti-TPO and anti-Tg levels show lower distant metastasis rates than patients without thyroid autoantibodies ( 62 , 63 ), suggesting their potentially protective role ( 59 ). Immune infiltrates in the tumor microenvironment differ between the different thyroid neoplasm subtypes ( Figure 4 ). In general, differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC) has a higher number of tumor-associated lymphocytes and regulatory T cells (Tregs), while anaplastic thyroid cancer (ATC) and medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) display a high density of tumor-associated macrophages ( 64 ). The number of tumor-associated macrophages has been associated with dedifferentiation, lymph node metastases, and reduced survival ( 65 ). It is important to note, however, that most of the studies analyzing the immune milieu of DTC have used papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) tumor samples ( 66 - 69 ). Myeloid-derived suppressor cells are associated with aggressive characteristics of differentiated thyroid cancer and are related to poor prognosis ( 65 ). Figure 4. Immune infiltrates differ in different types of thyroid cancer [Modified by Garcia-Alvarez et al, ( 70 )]. TAM, tumor-associated macrophages; MDSC, myeloid-derived suppressor cell. The dendritic cells, which play a critical role in antigen presentation, are increased in PTC, while neutrophils are found in more aggressive thyroid cancers (such as poorly differentiated or anaplastic). In addition, natural killer cells that play an important role in immunosurveillance are also increased in PTC and are negatively correlated with tumor stage, while lymphocytic infiltration is associated with better overall survival and low recurrence rate ( 71 , 72 ). Cytokines, which may be produced by thyroid follicular cells and by immune cells infiltrating thyroid tumors, are also related to tumor development. IL-1 and IL-6 stimulate thyroid cell proliferation and tumor growth, while TGF-β, which is a suppressive cytokine, is overexpressed in aggressive cancers ( 73 ). In addition, multiple chemokines may be secreted by thyroid cancer or immune cells and affect chemiotaxis, angiogenesis, and lymphangiogenesis ( 73 ). Immunomodulatory proteins, such as programmed death-ligand 1 (PDL1), cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4), T cell immunoglobulin and mucin-domain containing-3 (TIM-3), lymphocyte activation gene-3 (LAG-3), and T cell immunoglobulin and ITIM domain (TIGIT), which are considered major immune coinhibitory receptors and promising immunotherapeutic targets in cancer treatment, are also expressed in thyroid cancer, being associated with more aggressive tumor characteristics and
