Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


domain (TIGIT), which are considered major immune coinhibitory receptors and promising immunotherapeutic targets in cancer treatment, are also expressed in thyroid cancer, being associated with more aggressive tumor characteristics and a poor prognosis ( 64 ). Programmed death-ligand 1 staining by immunohistochemistry has shown higher expression in ATC than in other subtypes ( 70 ). Six cohort studies have been published to-date reporting positive PD-L1 expression, varying between 22% and 65%, this being higher compared to that detected in DTC and poorly differentiated thyroid cancer ( 74 - 79 ). TIM-3 expression was observed in 48% of patients with MTC, and in the majority of cases (84.4%) its expression was restricted to tumor cells ( 80 ). Other coinhibitory receptors, such as LAG-3 and T cell TIGIT, were observed in a lesser percentage of cases (approximately 3%) ( 80 ). Nevertheless, results from clinical trials with immunotherapy as monotherapy or combinations have shown limited efficacy ( 70 ). In one phase Ib KEYNOTE-028 trial assessing the efficacy of pembrolizumab in patients with PD-L1+ (membranous staining on ≥1%) locally advanced or metastatic follicular or papillary thyroid cancer, pembrolizumab achieved an objective response rate of 9% and a median progression-free survival of 7 months ( 81 ). Several clinical trials further investigating the efficacy of combination therapy of immune checkpoint inhibitors are currently ongoing. IMMUNE SYSTEM AND DIABETES MELLITUS The immune system plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of both type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Diabetes type 1, which is immune-mediated in more than 95% of cases, is an organ-specific autoimmune disease characterized by lymphocytic infiltration and inflammation that leads to pancreatic β-cell destruction and absolute insulin deficiency ( 82 ). The immune system’s attack on pancreatic β-cells is usually triggered by a number of factors, including genetic predisposition and environmental triggers such as viral infections (e.g., Coxsackie B4, mumps, and rubella) or dietary compounds (e.g., cow’s milk) ( 82 ). The process involves the activation of immune cells, particularly T cells, which recognize self-autoantigens in pancreatic β-cells and initiate an immune response. On the other hand, in type 2 diabetes, the immune system also plays a different role from that in DM1. Chronic low-grade inflammation, often associated with obesity, leads to immune cell activation and the release of proinflammatory cytokines. These cytokines interfere with the normal functioning of insulin and promote insulin resistance. Macrophages infiltrate adipose tissue and release
