Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


leads to immune cell activation and the release of proinflammatory cytokines. These cytokines interfere with the normal functioning of insulin and promote insulin resistance. Macrophages infiltrate adipose tissue and release inflammatory molecules, further exacerbating insulin resistance with increasing adiposity. The immune system, thus, contributes to the development and progression of insulin resistance and eventually promotes the onset of DM2. Understanding the intricate relations between the immune system and diabetes pathogenesis is essential for the development of effective treatments and interventions for the management of both types of diabetes. Diabetes Type 1 The susceptibility to develop DM1 is associated with multiple alleles of the major histocompatibility complex MHC I and II locus. More than 90% of patients with DM1 express either HLA DR3, DQ2 or DR4, or DQ8 ( 83 ), whereas HLA haplotype DR2, DQ6 is protective against DM1 development. The primary pathological presentation of DM1 is inflammation of the pancreatic islets, also known as insulitis, caused by infiltration of immune cells, including CD4 and CD8 T cells along with B cells ( 84 - 86 ). Although the initial events triggering autoreactive responses remain unclear, presentation of pancreatic islet autoantigens by the associated MHC class II molecules contribute to priming and expansion of pathogenic T cells. CD4 T helper cells are required for the development of the autoimmune process in the pancreatic islets, while CD8 cytotoxic T cells are the cells responsible for β-cell destruction ( Figure 5 ). T cell receptors recognize peptides bound to MHC molecules on the surface of antigen-presenting cells (B-cells, dendritic cells, and macrophages). Each T cell then generates a unique receptor for the recognition of an autoantigen presented in the MHC molecule. The interaction between T cell receptor/autoantigen/MHC leads to activation of the T cells. Figure 5. T cell mediated destruction of β- cells in diabetes type 1. CD4+ effector T cells recognize an insulin or islet peptide presented by diabetes-risk conferring HLA-DQ8 or DR4 on APCs, migrate to the pancreas and promote pancreatic β-cell destruction. Inside the pancreatic islets CD8+ effector T cells recognize islet antigens presented by HLA-A2 leading to the destruction of the β-cells. [Modified by Mitchel et al ( 87 )]. TCR, T cell receptor; APC, antigen presenting cell; HLA-A2, human leukocyte antigen-A2. Three different mechanisms have been proposed to explain T cell activation in DM1. One mechanism is thought to involve molecular mimicry-activated T cell proliferation. The hypothesis
