Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


HLA-A2, human leukocyte antigen-A2. Three different mechanisms have been proposed to explain T cell activation in DM1. One mechanism is thought to involve molecular mimicry-activated T cell proliferation. The hypothesis for this mechanism is based on the assumption that epitopes of proteins expressed by infectious agents can be shared by unrelated molecules encoded by host genes ( 88 ). A second mechanism that may trigger molecular mimicry-activated T cell proliferation is “bystander” T cell proliferation. This mechanism involves the stimulation of non-antigen-specific T cells by various cytokines during infection, simply because they are in the area. The cytokines thought to be involved in this nonspecific stimulation are IFN-α and IFN-β ( 89 ). The 3rd mechanism might involve a superantigen-mediated T cell proliferation mechanism: this theory proposes that autoreactive T cells can be inappropriately primed to react against self-structures through an encounter with a superantigen ( 90 ). Multiple autoantigens in the pancreatic islets have been identified, including non-specific islet cell autoantigens (ICA), insulin, glutamic acid decarboxylase 65 (GAD65), insulinoma antigen-2 (IA-2), heat shock protein (HSP), islet-specific glucose-6-phosphatase catalytic subunit-related protein (IGRP), imogen-38, zinc transporter-8 (ZnT8), and the most recently identified pancreatic duodenal homeobox factor 1 (PDX1), chromogranin A (CHGA), and islet amyloid polypeptide (IAPP) ( 91 ). Autoantibodies against these autoantigens may be detected long before the onset of hyperglycemia and usually decline during the course of the disease ( 92 ). Most patients diagnosed with DM1 have circulating islet cell autoantibodies directed against pancreatic islet autoantigens. However, although the detection of autoantibodies may be useful for DM1 diagnosis and prediction, it is the cellular immune system that eventually infiltrates the pancreatic islets and causes β-cell destruction. In turn, further β-cell destruction leads to more self-antigen presentation and ensuing amplification of the immune response ( 82 , 93 , 94 ). Among several proinflammatory cytokines, IL-21, produced by CD8 T cells, is required for the development of DM1, while TNF-α may also be involved ( 95 , 96 ). IL-6 plays an important role in the pathogenesis of vitiligo-associated DM1 ( 97 ). In contrast, in vivo experiments with non-obese diabetic mice have shown that IL-4, produced by Th2 cells, may be protective against developing diabetes ( 95 , 96 , 98 , 99 ). Understanding both the pathophysiology and the regulatory mechanisms involved in DM1 is a critical step towards the development of antigen-specific, β-cell-directed, immunomodulatory or cellular
