Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


96 , 98 , 99 ). Understanding both the pathophysiology and the regulatory mechanisms involved in DM1 is a critical step towards the development of antigen-specific, β-cell-directed, immunomodulatory or cellular treatment modalities ( 100 ). Investigations into the efficacy and safety of various immunotherapeutic strategies against the development of DM1 have been carried out in recent clinical trials and are still ongoing in current trials ( 101 ). Among them, T cell-directed therapies that aim at a favorable balance between effector T cell depletion and regulatory T cell preservation have shown the most promising results. Teplizumab, an anti-CD3-directed monoclonal antibody, was the first immunomodulatory agent to demonstrate a significant delay in disease progression in high-risk individuals before clinical onset ( 102 ) and has recently (November 17, 2022) been approved by the FDA as the first disease-modifying therapy for DM1 in adults and in children aged 8 years and older. The Enigma of Pancreatic α-Cell Resistance in Diabetes Mellitus Type 1 Although both insulin-producing β-cells and glucagon-producing α-cells of the pancreatic islets share a similar embryonic origin and are directly exposed to the deleterious immune signals in DM1, it appears that the immune system selectively destroys β-cells, while α-cells survive even in long-term DM1 ( 103 ). α-Cells are located in close proximity to β-cells in human pancreatic islets ( 104 ), creating a closed communication loop that regulates their function and secretory capacity ( 105 ). Dysfunction of α-cells plays a significant role in the pathogenesis of both types of diabetes ( 106 ). It has long been proposed that the reduced functional β-cell mass in DM1 and the consequent hypoglycemia were the key mechanisms indirectly inducing dysfunction of α-cells in diabetes ( 107 ). Advanced molecular technology of the last decade has, however, challenged this notion, showing that dysfunction of α-cells in diabetes is not secondary to β-cell pathology but is instead directly immune-induced ( 108 - 110 ). Despite this dysfunction, α-cells exhibit a remarkable autoimmune resistance that enables them to survive over β-cells in long-standing diabetes ( 103 , 111 ). Recent studies using single-cell RNA sequencing ( 109 , 112 ) have demonstrated important differences between these two cell types in terms of expression of: i) anti-apoptotic genes, ii) endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress-related genes, III) innate immune response genes, and iv) antiviral response genes, all of which render α-cells less immunogenic and more resistant to
