Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


i) anti-apoptotic genes, ii) endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress-related genes, III) innate immune response genes, and iv) antiviral response genes, all of which render α-cells less immunogenic and more resistant to viral infections and ER stress ( 113 ). In addition, CD8+ T cells invading the islets in DM1 are reactive to preproinsulin but not to glucagon. Furthermore, although β-cells are essential to life (neither humans nor animal models can survive without them), mice with 98% α-cell ablation retain near-normal glucose homeostasis ( 114 ): this points to the knowledge gap we have, from an evolutionary point of view, regarding the question of why β-cells are more fragile than α-cells. Certainly, greater understanding of the underlying mechanisms responsible for the autoimmune resistance of α-cells is critical since it is likely to reveal intracellular pathways amenable to therapeutic interventions that would increase the resistance of the β-cells themselves to the immune attack of the host’s immune system. Diabetes Type 2 DM2 accounts for 90% of cases of diabetes worldwide ( 115 ). The increasing prevalence of DM2 around the world has been largely attributed to an unhealthy lifestyle and resultant development of obesity and overweight ( 116 ). Obesity is strongly related to DM2 mainly through inducing insulin resistance in the insulin sensitive tissues in the periphery. The concept that a smoldering inflammatory process plays an important part in the pathogenesis of DM2 ( 117 ) has attracted much attention and is supported by evidence of inflammation in islets, adipose tissue, liver, and muscle that can provoke insulin resistance and β-cell dysfunction ( 118 - 120 ). Adipose tissue is characterized by infiltration by macrophages and other immune cells that produce cytokines and chemokines and contribute to the development of local and systemic chronic low-grade inflammation, this inflammatory milieu being the link between obesity, insulin resistance, and diabetes mellitus ( 121 , 122 ). Earlier in vivo studies demonstrated that levels of TNF-α ( 123 - 125 ), IL-6, C-reactive protein, plasminogen activator inhibitor, and other inflammation mediators were elevated in adipose tissue and plasma of obese mice ( 126 , 127 ). It was also observed that these inflammatory mediators, together with saturated free fatty acids and reactive oxygen species (ROS), inhibited serine phosphorylation of the insulin receptor substrates (IRS-1 and 2) ( 128 - 130 ) in insulin sensitive tissues, such as adipose tissue and the liver ( 131 ),
