Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


inhibited serine phosphorylation of the insulin receptor substrates (IRS-1 and 2) ( 128 - 130 ) in insulin sensitive tissues, such as adipose tissue and the liver ( 131 ), promoting insulin resistance ( Figure 6 ). TNF-α is associated with increased release of free fatty acids by adipose tissue and leads to impaired insulin secretion and signaling ( 123 , 132 ). Figure 6. Insulin resistance and inflammation in diabetes type 2. Insulin binds to insulin receptor (IR) in insulin sensitive tissues, and autophosphorylates tyrosine molecules of IRS-1 and -2 substrates. In the presence of obesity, and hyperlipidemia, the influx of free fatty acids, inflammatory cytokines and glucose activates IKKβ and JNK, which are the mediators for stress and inflammatory. In turn IKKβ and JNK inhibit tyrosine phosphorylation of IRS1 and 2 and promote transcriptional activation of genes related to inflammatory and stress responses resulting in insulin resistance. [Modified by Berbudi et al ( 133 )]. IRS 1 -2, insulin receptor substrates; ER, Endoplasmic reticulum; IKKβ, inhibitory kappa B kinase β; JNK1 and c-Jun N-terminal kinase I. In line with these early in vivo studies, studies in humans have shown that elevated levels of i) nonspecific indicators of inflammation, such as white cell count, fibrinogen, and CRP levels ( 134 - 136 ), ii) markers of reduced fibrinolysis, such as plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1), and tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), iii) von Willebrand factor (vWf), which is a marker of endothelial injury, and iv) early markers of inflammation, such as monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1), IL-8, and interferon-γ-inducible protein-10 ( 137 ), were predictive of DM2 development. Furthermore, CRP and/or IL-6 were associated with the incidence of DM2 independently of adiposity or insulin resistance ( 136 , 138 , 139 ). Visceral adipose tissue appears to be a major source of circulating IL-6 in humans, and obese people with insulin resistance display high levels of plasma IL-6 concentration, also predictive of DM2 development ( 113 ). TNF-α is also increased in obese individuals with insulin resistance ( 124 , 140 ) and it plays a major role in the pathogenesis of obesity-linked DM2 ( 141 ). At the cellular level, chronic exposure of adipocytes to low doses of TNF-α led to a dramatic decrease in insulin-stimulated auto-phosphorylation of the IRS 1-2 ( 142 ). Treatment of cultured murine adipocytes with TNF-α induced serine phosphorylation of IRS-1 and convert IRS-1 into an
