Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


a dramatic decrease in insulin-stimulated auto-phosphorylation of the IRS 1-2 ( 142 ). Treatment of cultured murine adipocytes with TNF-α induced serine phosphorylation of IRS-1 and convert IRS-1 into an inhibitor of IR tyrosine kinase activity in vitro. TNF-α has also been shown to downregulate glucose transporter GLUT4 mRNA levels in adipocyte and myocyte cultures as well ( 125 , 143 , 144 ). Oxidative stress, as a result of increased cytokine levels in DM2, is also thought to play an important role in activating inflammatory genes ( 145 , 146 ) ( Figure 6 ). It is possible that oxidative stress markers do not adequately reflect the impact of increased ROS on β-cells or insulin signaling, while inflammatory, procoagulant or endothelial dysfunction markers are more specific to the pathophysiology of hyperglycemia ( 145 , 146 ). Hasnain et al. showed that islet-endogenous and exogenous IL-22 suppressed oxidative and ER stress caused by cytokines or glucolipotoxicity in mouse and human β-cells by regulating oxidative stress pathways. In obese mice, antibody neutralization of IL-23 or IL-24 partially reduced β-cell ER stress and improved glucose tolerance, whereas IL-22 administration modulated oxidative stress regulatory genes in islets, suppressed ER stress and inflammation, promoted secretion of high-quality efficacious insulin, and fully restored glucose homeostasis, followed by reinstitution of insulin sensitivity ( 147 ). The chemokine system is also associated with obesity and insulin resistance. MCP-1, which acts on monocytes, macrophages, T cells and NK cells, is increased in obese compared to lean subjects and is related to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and other lipid overload states ( 148 - 153 ). A short-term program of 4-month lifestyle modification significantly decreases MCP-1 levels, with favorable effects on the glycemic and lipid profile ( 151 ). Collectively, these findings supported the investigation of new therapeutic approaches that target inflammation to ameliorate diabetes and its complications. Regarding the latter, it is important to note that multiple sources of evidence support a pathogenic connection between rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and the mechanisms of DM2, via formation of a vicious circle that is perpetuated by impaired glucose metabolism and inflammation. In this context, ongoing clinical studies have shown that the inhibition of interleukin IL-1 and IL-6 may allow the treatment of RA and concomitant T2D at the same time ( 154 ). Treatment with anakinra, a recombinant form of human IL-1 receptor antagonist that works as a competitive inhibitor of
