Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


leukocyte recruitment inhibition ( 173 , 174 ), ii) defective pathogen recognition ( 175 ), iii) dysfunction of neutrophils ( 176 - 178 ), macrophages resulting in impairment of phagocytosis ( 179 ), iv) functional defects in natural killer cells ( 180 ), and v) dysfunction of complement activation ( 181 ). OSTEOPOROSIS AND THE IMMUNE SYSTEM Osteoporosis is a clinical condition characterized by low bone mass and impaired bone microarchitecture associated with an increased risk of fragility fractures. Growing evidence of the last few decades has demonstrated the effect of the immune system on bone metabolism, leading to the emergence of the new field of osteoimmunology ( 182 - 185 ) and immunology of osteoporosis (named as immunoporosis) ( 184 - 188 ). States of immune dysfunction such as immunodeficiency, inflammatory diseases, or immune response to infections are associated with increased osteoclastic bone resorption and, therefore, increased bone loss and increased fracture risk. Bone Remodeling and Bone Cells Bone remodeling is a dynamic and continuous process that is responsible for the maintenance of skeletal health throughout life. It involves three consecutive phases: i) osteoclast-mediated bone resorption; ii) the reversal phase, during which mesenchymal derived osteoblasts are recruited to the bone site of bone resorption; and iii) osteoblast-mediated bone formation. The two processes of bone resorption and bone formation are tightly coupled and under control of the matrix-embedded osteocytes, capable of sensing and integrating mechanical and chemical signals from their environment to regulate bone formation and resorption at the bone surfaces. Osteoclasts originate from the same myeloid precursor that derives macrophage and dendritic cells and are specialized in bone degradation ( 186 ). Osteoblasts are the main bone-forming cells and are derived from mesenchymal stem cells. Osteoclast formation and differentiation is regulated by macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) and the receptor activator of nuclear factor-kB (RANK) ligand (RANKL) produced by osteoblasts and osteocytes ( 189 , 190 ). Osteocytes are a significant source of RANKL and its decoy receptor, osteoprotegerin (OPG), which binds to RANKL, preventing its interaction with RANK, while they also secrete the Wnt signaling inhibitor sclerostin, which regulates bone formation ( 189 ). RANKL is additionally expressed by fibroblasts and immune cells, including antigen-stimulated T cells and dendritic cells ( 191 - 193 ), while OPG is also produced by B lymphocytes and dendritic cells ( 194 ). Inflammatory Diseases Activated T cells increase the production of TNF-α
