Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


cells ( 191 - 193 ), while OPG is also produced by B lymphocytes and dendritic cells ( 194 ). Inflammatory Diseases Activated T cells increase the production of TNF-α and RANKL and stimulate osteoclastogenesis during inflammation ( 182 - 185 , 192 - 195 ). Multiple cytokines may promote osteoclastogenesis mainly by regulating the RANK/RANKL/OPG axis. TNF-α, IL-1, IL-6, IL-7, IL-11, Il-17, and IL-23 promote osteoclast differentiation, while IFN-α, IFN-γ, IL-3, IL-4, IL-10, IL-27, and IL-33 are considered anti-osteoclastogenic cytokines that protect bone integrity ( 195 ). Th17 cells are considered an osteoclastogenic subset of T cells as they enhance osteoclastogenesis by secreting IL-1, IL-6, Il-17, RANKL, TNF-α, and IFN-γ. Activation of Th2 leads to enhanced production of PTH and promotes the anabolic activity of osteoblasts in several inflammatory states. Furthermore, Th2 lymphocytes are associated with a low RANKL/OPG ratio and inhibition of bone loss ( 196 ). In addition, β-cells produce RANKL and OPG and may influence bone formation and absorption, while it has been observed that in HIV infected patients, there is an altered β-cell RANKL/OPG ratio that is inversely correlated with BMD ( 197 ). Interleukin 6, produced by both stromal and osteoblastic cells ( 198 ) in response to stimulation by systemic hormones such as PTH, PTH-related peptide (PTH-rP), thyroid hormones, and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 and other cytokines (i.e., TGF-β, IL-1, and TNF-α), plays a major role in osteoclast development and function. Increased IL-6 levels contribute significantly to the abnormal bone resorption observed in patients with multiple myeloma ( 199 ), Paget’s disease of bone ( 200 ), rheumatoid arthritis ( 201 ), and Langerhans cell histiocytosis ( 202 ). Effects of increased osteoclast-induced bone resorption are not solely attributable to IL-6, but to all IL-6 family cytokines ( 203 ). TNF-α has also been shown to induce bone resorption and plays an important part in inflammatory bone diseases ( 192 ). TNF-α promotes RANKL expression in osteoclast precursors and the formation of multinucleated osteoclasts in the presence of M-CSF. Furthermore, TNF-α increases RANKL and M-CSF expression in osteoblasts, stromal cells, and T lymphocytes, while RANKL can also enhance TNF-α mediated osteoclastogenesis ( 195 ). IL-1β increases RANKL expression and stimulates osteoclast formation and bone resorption while also promoting TNF-α induced osteoclastogenesis ( 204 , 205 ). Postmenopausal Osteoporosis Estrogen deficiency is a state of increased bone remodeling associated with an increased rate of bone resorption
