Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


while also promoting TNF-α induced osteoclastogenesis ( 204 , 205 ). Postmenopausal Osteoporosis Estrogen deficiency is a state of increased bone remodeling associated with an increased rate of bone resorption relative to bone formation, resulting in net bone loss. It has been shown that estrogen deficiency-induced bone loss has a complex mechanism mainly involving the immune system rather than a direct effect of estrogen on bone cells ( 206 ). Estrogen loss during menopause is associated with an expansion of T and B lymphocytes ( 207 , 208 ) leading to increased production of RANKL ( 209 ). In addition, an increased level of proinflammatory cytokines, including TNF-a and IL-1b, is observed in postmenopausal women ( 210 , 211 ). In addition, B lymphocytes may partially contribute to trabecular bone loss in postmenopausal osteoporosis ( 212 ). In the absence of estrogens, dendritic cells live longer, increasing their expression of IL-7 and IL-15. In turn, IL-7 and IL-15 induce IL-17 and TNF-a production in a subset of memory T cells, independent of antigen activation ( 213 ). These proinflammatory cytokines contribute to inflammation-induced bone loss in postmenopausal osteoporosis by activating low-grade inflammation. In contrast, Treg cells have a bone-protective role in postmenopausal osteoporosis ( 210 ). However, it has been shown that Th17/Treg balance is disturbed in estrogen deficiency. Treg cells lose their immunosuppressive function and convert to Th17 cells, which explains the imbalance of Th17/Treg in postmenopausal osteoporosis ( 214 ). Senile Osteoporosis Senile osteoporosis, on the other hand, is a low-bone turnover disease with decreased bone resorption and significantly reduced bone formation ( 215 ), which commonly occurs in older people, above 65, and affects both males and females. In recent years, it was demonstrated that aging is usually accompanied by systemic low-grade chronic inflammation and enhanced inflammatory mediators, such as IL-6 and TNF-a ( 216 ). A recent study found that senescent immune cells, such as macrophages and neutrophils, accumulate in bone marrow during aging in rats and mice ( 217 ). The senescent macrophages and neutrophils repress osteogenesis by promoting bone marrow mesenchymal stromal cell adipogenesis. In addition to directly inhibiting osteogenesis, the senescent immune cells contribute to chronic inflammation, thus leading to inflammatory bone resorption ( 217 ). Aging can tilt the balance of Th1/Th2 toward Th2 cells, resulting in an increased inflammatory response ( 218 ) and low-level chronic inflammation, ultimately leading to continuous
