Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


( 217 ). Aging can tilt the balance of Th1/Th2 toward Th2 cells, resulting in an increased inflammatory response ( 218 ) and low-level chronic inflammation, ultimately leading to continuous bone loss. Thyrotoxicosis-Induced Osteoporosis IL-6 and IL-8 play a major role in thyrotoxicosis-induced osteoporosis and are increased in patients with thyrotoxicosis due to Graves’ disease or toxic multinodular goiter ( 219 ). In addition, patients with thyroid carcinoma on TSH suppressive therapy have significantly increased circulating levels of IL-6 and IL-8 compared to controls ( 219 ), which are tightly associated with serum T3 and fT4 concentrations. Both IL-6 and IL-8 have also been shown to be released by human bone marrow stromal cell cultures containing osteoblast progenitor cells in response to T3 ( 196 ). TNF-α elevations due to low TSH signaling in human hyperthyroidism also contribute to the bone loss that has traditionally been attributed solely to high thyroid hormone levels ( 220 ). Hyperthyroid mice lacking TSHR had greater bone resorption than hyperthyroid wild-type mice, demonstrating that the absence of TSH signaling contributes to low bone mass ( 221 ) in the hyperthyroid state. Primary Hyperparathyroidism-Induced Osteoporosis Bone resorption in primary hyperparathyroidism (PHP) also appears to be related to immune system effects. Circulating levels of IL-6 and TNF-α, which are significantly increased in patients with PHP, are strongly correlated with biochemical markers of resorption, returning to normal after successful parathyroidectomy ( 222 ). The hypothesis that IL-6 mediates the catabolic effects of parathyroid hormone (PTH) on the skeleton has been further strengthened by the finding that neutralizing IL-6 in vivo attenuates PTH-induced bone resorption in mice, while the resorptive response to PTH was also reduced in IL-6 knockout mice ( 223 ). Furthermore, it has been observed that transplantation of parathyroid from humans with hyperparathyroidism to mice lacking T cells was not associated with bone loss, suggesting a possible role of T lymphocytes in PTH-related osteoporosis ( 224 ). A direct action of PTH on T lymphocytes may also contribute, as deletion of the PTH receptor from T cells failed to induce bone loss ( 225 ). It has been proposed that PTH action on T cells results in secretion of TNF-α and, in combination with RANKL increase and OPG suppression, guides their differentiation to Th17 subsets, with subsequent IL-17 secretion and further RANKL amplification ( 226 ). Drug-Induced Osteoporosis The immune cells are also involved in
