Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


increase and OPG suppression, guides their differentiation to Th17 subsets, with subsequent IL-17 secretion and further RANKL amplification ( 226 ). Drug-Induced Osteoporosis The immune cells are also involved in drug-induced osteoporosis, such as glucocorticoid and chemotherapy-induced osteoporosis. A recent study demonstrated that glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis could not be induced in T cell-deficient mice, while re-establishment was found to be possible by transferring splenic T cells from wild-type mice ( 227 ). Cyclophosphamide, is a chemotherapy drug that causes immunosuppression and is associated with increased risk of osteoporosis ( 228 - 230 ). By improving the functional status of immune cells in an immunosuppressive mouse model induced by cyclophosphamide, bone loss was dramatically reduced ( 231 ), pointing to the possible contribution of immune cells in cyclophosphamide-induced osteoporosis. EFFECTS OF THE IMMUNE SYSTEM ON THE STRESS SYSTEM The Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal (HPA) Axis The relations between the immune and the stress systems are complex and bidirectional, denoting that while stress can affect immune function, immune responses can also influence stress levels through various ways and mechanisms. INFLAMMATION During acute inflammation, the immune system is activated in response to infection or injury and releases proinflammatory cytokines and other inflammation-related factors into the central nervous system (CNS), plasma, and endocrine glands. Inflammatory cytokines, such as TNF-α, IL-1, and IL-6, produced by a variety of cells, including monocytes, macrophages, astrocytes, endothelial cells, and fibroblasts, activate the HPA axis leading to an increase of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) and, finally, glucocorticoids ( 38 , 184 ). In turn, increased circulating levels of glucocorticoids exert suppressive effects on the inflammatory reaction, controlling the immune response and helping the organism to reach its prior healthy homeostasis ( 232 ). Similarly, in acute stress, the amplitude and synchronization of CRH secretory pulses is increased, and this is reflected in the levels of ACTH and cortisol in the systemic circulation ( 233 ). The proinflammatory cytokine IL-1, especially its β form, is probably the most important molecule capable of modulating cerebral functions during systemic and localized inflammation. Systemic IL-1β injection activates the neurons involved in the control of autonomic functions, and neutralizing antibodies or IL-1 receptor antagonists are capable of preventing numerous responses during inflammatory stimuli ( 234 ). Similarly to IL-1β, intravenous IL-6 stimulates the hypothalamic-pituitary unit, leading to the secretion of cortisol by the adrenal glands and subsequent termination of the inflammatory cascade ( 235 ). All
