Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


Similarly to IL-1β, intravenous IL-6 stimulates the hypothalamic-pituitary unit, leading to the secretion of cortisol by the adrenal glands and subsequent termination of the inflammatory cascade ( 235 ). All three inflammatory cytokines (IL-1, IL-6, and TNF-α) have the capacity to activate the HPA-axis, but it appears that IL-6 is the most critical component of this cascade. Studies in rats have demonstrated that immunoneutralization of IL-6 abolishes the effects of the other two cytokines on the HPA-axis ( 236 ). TNF-α and IL-1, on the other hand, stimulate the production of IL-6, which in turn stimulates the HPA-axis. The final end-product of HPA activation, glucocorticoids, inhibit IL-6 secretion at the transcriptional level through interaction of the ligand-activated glucocorticoid receptor with nuclear factor-kappa B, creating a negative feedback loop. In this way, IL-6 stimulates glucocorticoid release to control inflammation, and glucocorticoids subsequently inhibit IL-6 release through a negative feedback loop preventing uncontrolled and potentially harmful sequalae of inflammatory mechanisms, including tissue damage ( 237 , 238 ). In an older study involving patients with Cushing disease studied before and after transsphenoidal adenectomy, plasma IL-6 concentration was increased when patients were hypocortisolemic, experiencing symptoms of glucocorticoid deficiency, as part of the “steroid withdrawal syndrome” (i.e., pyrexia, headache, anorexia, nausea, fatigue, malaise, arthralgias, myalgias, and somnolence of variable degree). Notably, IL-6 levels did not increase in patients who did not become hypocortisolemic after surgery, while following glucocorticoid replacement, a dramatic decrease of IL-6 levels concomitantly with relief of the observed symptoms was reported ( 239 ). While acute stimulation with IL-6 activates the HPA axis mainly through the hypothalamic CRH neurons, chronic exposure to IL-6 may also directly stimulate the pituitary corticotropic cells and the adrenal cells via CRH receptor-independent mechanisms ( 240 ). In vivo experiments have shown a stimulatory effect of IL-6 on cortisol production by the adrenal cortex in the absence of CRH and subsequent activation of the HPA axis ( 240 ) in cytomegalovirus-infected mice ( 241 ), as well as in murine colitis ( 242 ). In addition, experiments in mice deficient in CRH (CRH KO) and deficient in both CRH and IL-6 (CRH KO)/IL-6 KO) have demonstrated that IL-6 during prolonged immunological challenge may surpass CRH in augmentation of adrenal function ( 240 ). Protein expression of IL-6 and IL-6 receptor has been detected in primary cultures of human adrenocortical cells depleted of macrophages (CD68-positive cells), predominantly
