Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


augmentation of adrenal function ( 240 ). Protein expression of IL-6 and IL-6 receptor has been detected in primary cultures of human adrenocortical cells depleted of macrophages (CD68-positive cells), predominantly in the zona reticularis but also in the zona fasciculata and in single cells within the zona glomerulosa and the medulla ( 243 ). Moreover, IL-6 was able to induce adrenal steroidogenesis in vitro in a time- and dose-dependent manner in the absence of macrophages, suggesting that IL-6 may be a long-term stimulator of steroidogenesis but with no acute effects ( 243 ). In humans, IL-6 may stimulate cortisol release directly at the level of the adrenal gland in long-term stress situations ( 244 ), and the same may also apply in chronic inflammatory diseases, although direct evidence is still lacking ( 245 ). In a recent clinical study, increased daily, and especially evening, saliva cortisol secretion, in the context of the acute viral infection COVID-19, appeared to be mostly driven by hypersecretion of IL-6, independently of ACTH ( 246 ). However, the hypothesis that IL-6 may partially replace ACTH when there is an acute requirement for increased cortisol secretion has yet to be tested. PROLONGED OR CHRONIC STRESS AND INFLAMMATION Acute versus chronic stress and inflammation are distinct conditions that exert extremely different effects on the immune system, each altering its function in a distinct manner. Chronic stress is associated with a blunted circadian cortisol rhythm, a suppressed inflammatory response, and a shift from Th1 to Th 2 and a Th reg to Th 17 immunity. It has clearly been shown that in chronic stress, endogenous glucocorticoids fail to terminate the stress response and, in fact, cause body composition changes reminiscent of those in hypercortisolism, such as visceral adiposity, sarcopenia, and osteoporosis ( 247 - 249 ). On the other hand, following a period of intense stress, there may be glucocorticoid-induced suppression of the HPA axis ( 238 ). In this case, long-term “inadequate” cortisol secretion may unleash its inhibitory effect on immune system activation, resulting in immune dysregulation and expression of sickness-syndrome manifestations. In this case, the post-stress sustained HPA axis suppression and hypocortisolism is reminiscent of the clinical picture of the intrinsic hypocortisolemia of primary adrenal insufficiency (Addison’s disease), associated with immune perturbations due to failure of cortisol to appropriately suppress the increased secretion of proinflammatory cytokines ( 239 , 250 ). The subsequent protracted lack of
