Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


(Addison’s disease), associated with immune perturbations due to failure of cortisol to appropriately suppress the increased secretion of proinflammatory cytokines ( 239 , 250 ). The subsequent protracted lack of axis recovery due to a post-illness state of hypocortisolism in probably predisposed individuals may explain the underlying pathophysiologic mechanisms responsible for some post-viral infection sickness syndromes ( 232 , 251 ), such as long COVID syndrome ( 252 ). AUTOIMMUNE DISORDERS In some cases, chronic stress can contribute to the development or exacerbation of autoimmune disorders. Without appropriate cortisol regulation in cases of chronic stress and chronic inflammation, the organism fails to downregulate inflammatory processes, contributing to a vicious cycle where stress, inflammation, and compromised HPA axis function may result in the development of chronic immune-mediated inflammatory diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis. Stress can potentially trigger or worsen these conditions by dysregulating the immune response. Cortisol diurnal secretion displays a circadian rhythm in healthy individuals, with the highest levels in the morning and a gradual decline throughout the day, reaching the lowest levels around midnight ( 253 ). During acute stress ( 254 - 256 ) or infection ( 237 , 257 ), the rhythm is disturbed and the afternoon and/or midnight cortisol levels do not drop. A disturbed circadian cortisol rhythm with abnormally high afternoon and night cortisol levels was found in patients with even mild or moderate COVID-19 compared to healthy controls ( 246 ). However, although not systematically studied, the adrenal response to chronic versus acute exposure to proinflammatory cytokines appears to follow a different pattern. In patients with rheumatoid arthritis, symptoms follow circadian rhythms with impaired function due to pain and joint stiffness being most severe in the early morning ( 258 , 259 ) because of increased proinflammatory cytokines, such as TNF-a and IL-6, that occur during late night hours ( 260 , 261 ). This explains the inverse relation between diurnal variation of circulating IL-6 and glucocorticoid levels ( 262 ). Increased endogenous nocturnal secretion of cortisol could alleviate these morning symptoms, but this is not the case in most patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( 263 - 270 ). To clarify this issue, several studies have been carried out reporting that the optimal time for delivery of glucocorticoid treatment would be during the night in order to target the effects of nocturnal proinflammatory stimuli ( 271 - 274 ). PSYCHOLOGICAL WELL-BEING The immune system
