Immune System Effects on the Endocrine System
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cells, thyroid, il-, immune, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, pmc, diabetes, patients, cell, bone


for delivery of glucocorticoid treatment would be during the night in order to target the effects of nocturnal proinflammatory stimuli ( 271 - 274 ). PSYCHOLOGICAL WELL-BEING The immune system also plays a role in maintaining overall psychological well-being. Chronic stress and its impact on the immune system can increase susceptibility to mental health problems such as anxiety and depression. Conversely, psychological well-being can improve the human body’s immune responses, enhance resistance to diseases (including infectious diseases), and improve mental health ( 275 , 276 ). Changes in psychological status of patients with Alzheimer’s induced significant differences in their immune response ( 277 ). In addition, long-term practice of meditation was shown to decrease stress reactivity and exert a favorable therapeutic effect in chronic inflammatory conditions characterized by neurogenic inflammation ( 278 ), while joyful activities such as singing were able to boost the immune response in cancer patients and family members ( 279 ). ADRENAL MEDULLA The chromaffin cells of the adrenal medulla play a role in stress response by secreting catecholamines and various biologically active peptides ( 238 ). As the stress response starts, rapidly augmented secretion of norepinephrine and epinephrine is initiated, followed by activation of the HPA axis and increased release of CRH and ACTH and secretion of glucocorticoids ( 280 ). CRH and norepinephrine stimulate the secretion of each other through CRH-R1 and α1-noradrenergic receptors, respectively ( 281 ). Cytokines TNF-α, IL-1, and IFN-γ act directly on chromaffin cells ( 282 - 285 ). It has also been demonstrated that cytokines regulate the secretion of various peptides that are co-secreted with catecholamines, such as vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), galanin and secretogranin II, enkephalin and neuropeptide Y ( 283 , 285 ). IL-6 directly modulates the secretion of catecholamines and neuropeptides by chromaffin cells and therefore influences the adrenal stress response. It has been hypothesized that medullary peptides may serve as paracrine modulators of glucocorticoid production ( 286 ). It has also been shown that IL-6 increases intracellular Ca2+ concentration and induces catecholamine secretion in rat carotid body glomus cells, a finding which has finally confirmed the relations between IL-6 and catecholamine secretion ( 287 ). Furthermore, IL-10 is a critical target downstream of epinephrine and norepinephrine which limits inflammation ( 288 ). On the other hand, norepinephrine may act directly on macrophages and dendritic cells to suppress inflammatory cytokine secretion through primarily the β2-adrenergic receptors
