Novel treatment (new drug/intervention; established drug/procedure in new situation)
KEYWORDS: oesophageal, patient, perforation, treatment, tissue, glue, tissue glue, tisseel, use, figure, case, bmj, perforations, management, patients


Novel treatment (new drug/intervention; established drug/procedure in new situation) Case report Tissue glue: a potential role in the management of intraoperative oesophageal perforation Sushil Rodrigues Ranjan,1 Samit Majumdar,2 Jaiganesh Manickavasagam,3,4 Susanne Flach5 of Dundee, Dundee, UK An 85- year- old man suffering from oropharyngeal An 85- year-o ld man with diabetes presenting with cricopharyngeal spasm underwent endoscopic stapling diagnosed with a small pharyngeal pouch along 3Department of of the pouch under general anaesthesia. During the with associated significant cricopharyngeal muscle Otorhinolaryngology, Ninewells procedure, an iatrogenic perforation of the oesophagus spasm. The patient was initially treated conser- 4Tayside Academic Science was noticed. After considering several options, 5 mL vatively for a few years and had an unsuccessful Dundee, UK intraoperatively. The patient was started on intravenous 18 months prior. He was fully assessed at Ninew- Munich, Germany contrast swallow procedure. At this point he was division of the bar, were discussed. considered safe for oral intake. Correspondence to Jaiganesh Manickavasagam; INVESTIGATIONS jaiganesh. manickavasagam@ nhs. net Preoperative investigations BACKGROUND The patient underwent barium swallow/video fluo- Accepted 9 June 2020 As many as 70% of oesophageal perforations roscopy which showed severe spasm of the crico- have been reported to be due to iatrogenic pharyngeus muscle. The patient also had prior CT causes.1 2 The oesophageal wall, being weakest scan to assess the thickness of the oesophageal wall. at the pharyngo- oesophageal junction, may also This showed that the wall was not thinned out due contribute an additional risk of perforation during to previous stapling. pharyngeal pouch operations and other endo- scopic procedures at this site.2 This potentially life- threatening complication does not have any DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS universally accepted intraoperative gold standard Possible differential diagnoses for this patient may treatment option. Currently, some authors have fall under two subcategories of dysphagia causes: argued the benefit of non- operative treatments neuromuscular and obstructive pathology. A poten- in a carefully selected small cohort of patients; tial neuromuscular cause would be cricopharyn- geal achalasia, while relevant obstructive causes however, the majority of patients will undergo operative management.3 include cervical oesophageal stricture and upper Possible surgical options include oesophageal repair and closure using tissue flaps, and oesopha- geal resection especially in patients with a diseased oesophagus.4 5 Some of the non- operative manage- ment options include nasogastric feeding with supportive treatment, removable oesophageal stents and closure with metallic clips. Despite the variety of management options, treatment failure remains
