Novel treatment (new drug/intervention; established drug/procedure in new situation)
KEYWORDS: oesophageal, patient, perforation, treatment, tissue, glue, tissue glue, tisseel, use, figure, case, bmj, perforations, management, patients


of the non- operative manage- ment options include nasogastric feeding with supportive treatment, removable oesophageal stents and closure with metallic clips. Despite the variety of management options, treatment failure remains significant for both operative and non-o perative cases. For example, with surgical © BMJ Publishing Group repair, 30% of patients have been reported to have Limited 2020. No commercial ongoing leakage. One of the biggest determinants re- use. See rights and of reducing the mortality of patients with oesopha- permissions. Published by BMJ. geal perforation is early detection and treatment.2 6 To cite: Ranjan SR, Although iatrogenic perforations noted immedi- Majumdar S, ately during endoscopic instrumentation has been Manickavasagam J, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2020;13:e232568. associated with better outcomes, a treatment tech- Figure 1 Oesophageal bar. The endoscopic view shows doi:- nique that could be just as quick may be able to an oesophageal bar with prominent cricopharyngeus 232568 reinforce that advantage. prestapling. Ranjan SR, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2020;13:e232568. doi: 1 Novel treatment (new drug/intervention; established drug/procedure in new situation) Figure 2 Obliteration of the oesophageal bar. The figure shows successful obliteration of the oesophageal bar poststapling. Figure 4 Defect after the application of Tisseel. The figure shows an oesophageal cancer as these may manifest with similar dysphagic endoscopic view of the previous pharyngo- oesophageal defect (as seen symptoms that the patient initially presented with.7 in figure 3) after Tisseel sealant was applied. TREATMENT The patient was not very keen to receive botox injections as it Treatment by external surgical approach could have been an only offered temporary remedy, thus opting for surgical divi- option, but this would have resulted in surgical excision and sion of the cricopharyngeal bar. Intraoperatively a small pouch closure of the leak area with additional risk. This option would with hypertrophy of the pharyngeus muscle was identified (as have needed the patient to be kept NBM for at least 7–10 days. shown in figure 1). The bar was divided using an Ethicon Endo- It was agreed by two operating surgeons that tissue glue was stapler, the primary aim of the operation being to divide the the best option and 2 mL of Tisseel tissue glue was applied to the entire length of the circular fibres of the cricopharyngeus. This area of defect using a long laparoscopic applicator needle (see was successfully achieved (as shown in figure 2) but resulted in a figure
