Novel treatment (new drug/intervention; established drug/procedure in new situation)
KEYWORDS: oesophageal, patient, perforation, treatment, tissue, glue, tissue glue, tisseel, use, figure, case, bmj, perforations, management, patients


the circular fibres of the cricopharyngeus. This area of defect using a long laparoscopic applicator needle (see was successfully achieved (as shown in figure 2) but resulted in a figure 4). The patient was started on intravenous co- amoxiclav, 1.5 cm × 2.5 cm diamond- shaped perforation at the pharyngo- kept NBM and fed through a nasogastric tube. oesophageal junction (as shown in figure 3). Three possible treatment options were considered for OUTCOME AND FOLLOW-UP resolution: On day 2 postprocedure the patient underwent a planned ► Surgical repair. CT scan of the neck. On day 4 the patient had a gastrografin ► Supportive treatment keeping the patient nil by mouth contrast swallow procedure. These investigations confirmed the (NBM) and enabling spontaneous healing. absence of mediastinal collection and/or leakage of contrast. At ► Tissue glue (eg, Tisseel) to seal the perforation. this point, it was deemed safe for the patient to commence oral intake and he was subsequently discharged. DISCUSSION According to the manufacturer’s instructions, Tisseel is intended to be used for two main purposes. It can serve as an adjunct to haemostasis when conventional surgical techniques such as suturing or cautery are ineffective or impractical. Another specific indication for Tisseel is as an adjunct to techniques used to prevent or seal a leakage in colonic anastomosis. However, it has been shown to be useful in a variety of medical specialties ranging from neurosurgery to general surgery.8–10 For example, Tisseel has been noted to be useful to prevent cerebrospinal fluid leaks after craniotomies and to minimise leaks after gastrojejunal anastomosis in Roux-e n- Y gastric bypass surgeries.10 11 Figure 3 Pharyngo- oesophageal junction defect. The figure shows an endoscopic view of a diamond- shaped defect noticed at the pharyngo- oesophageal junction poststapling. Figure 5 Management protocol. 2 Ranjan SR, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2020;13:e232568. doi: Novel treatment (new drug/intervention; established drug/procedure in new situation) With regard to oesophageal perforations, at least two case closure.20 It was not used for this patient as after factoring both reports have noted successful outcomes following the use of cost and efficacy (over-t he- scope suturing is expensive), the tissue glue sealants.12 13 As described earlier, one of the biggest approach of using tissue glue was deemed adequate. However, determinants in reducing mortality associated with oesophageal if available and warranted, an over-t he- scope suturing device perforation is the combination of early detection and effective
