Novel treatment (new drug/intervention; established drug/procedure in new situation)
KEYWORDS: oesophageal, patient, perforation, treatment, tissue, glue, tissue glue, tisseel, use, figure, case, bmj, perforations, management, patients


was deemed adequate. However, determinants in reducing mortality associated with oesophageal if available and warranted, an over-t he- scope suturing device perforation is the combination of early detection and effective may possibly be the best endoscopic perforation repair option treatment.2 6 Tissue glue can be administered quickly and has in terms of efficacy.20 been shown to be an effective sealant in multiple cases. Based on these properties and favourable patient outcome as mentioned Learning points before, we propose that tissue glue (eg, Tisseel) should be consid- ered as a possible alternative intervention for repair of oesoph- ► Tissue glue could be considered an alternative method for ageal perforations. The algorithm of steps taken for this specific sealing oesophageal perforation, especially in patients who patient is shown in figure 5. require or would benefit from conservative management. It is also noteworthy that the patient was a type II diabetic. ► In the case of its use, we would suggest considering the Despite the condition being associated with poor healing, the algorithm stated in the Discussion section. outcome of this patient may add weight to the tissue glue’s effec- ► Further long- term outcome data will be needed for validation. tiveness in similar situations.14 An observation to be considered here is that it is possible Contributors SRR contributed to the write- up of the case report. JM and SM aided the perforation could have been closed by spontaneous healing with the acquisition and interpretation of the patient case details and subsequently completely unaided by the tissue glue. The size of perforation helped with their proof- reading skills and approval of the case report’s final version. has also been noted to affect the success rate of healing (the SF contributed with her proof- reading skills and approval of the case report’s final dimension of this patient’s perforation was 1.5 cm by 2.5 cm).12 version. Hence, more evidence is needed to investigate the efficacy of Funding The authors have not declared a specific grant for this research from any funding agency in the public, commercial or not- for- profit sectors. tissue glue with perforations of other sizes. Tissue glue’s effec- tiveness may also be questionable if a perforation is accompanied Competing interests None declared. by underlying pathology, such as oesophageal infection or malig- Patient consent for publication Obtained. nancy.13 15 Therefore, it would be advisable that clinicians take Provenance and peer review Not commissioned;
