AmericanJournalofPathology,Vol.159,No.4,October2001
KEYWORDS: expression, cid, tumors, gene, genes, tumor, colon, gene expression, lung, figure, primary, profiles, ovarian, expressed, using


cells) were selected for RNA and washed again with 6(cid:2) SSPE. The arrays were isolation. All grades of differentiation were exhibited by scanned using the GeneArray scanner (Affymetrix). Im- thetumors. ageanalysiswasperformedwithGeneChipsoftware(Af- fymetrix). RNA Isolation Statistical Analysis Single isolates of tumor samples were homogenized in thepresenceofTrizolreagent(LifeTechnologies,Gaith- The HuGeneFL chip consists of 7129 probe sets, each ing to manufacturer’s procedures. RNA samples were sistsof20perfectlycomplementary25baselongprobes furtherpurifiedusingRNeasyspincolumns(Qiagen,Va- aswellas20mismatchprobesthatareidenticalexcept lencia, CA) and used to prepare cRNA probes. RNA for an altered central base. We subtract the mismatch Lung,Colon,andOvaryAdenocarcinomaExpressionProfiles 1233 AJPOctober2001,Vol.159,No.4 probevaluesfromtheperfectmatchvaluesandaverage Louis, MO), anti-human muscle actin (HHF35, 1:100, the middle 50% of these differences as the expression DAKO Protease 2 pretreatment; DAKO) and anti-c-KIT measureforthatprobeset. (1:100,citratebufferpretreatment;DAKO). Aquantilenormalizationprocedurewasusedtoadjust for differences in the probe intensity distribution across different chips. We applied a monotone linear spline to eachchipthatmappedquantiles0.02upto0.98(inincre- Results mentsof0.02)exactlytothecorrespondingmedianquan- tiles for all 154 samples. Then, the transform log(100 (cid:3) Gene Expression Profiles Distinguish Lung, max(X(cid:3)100;0))wasappliedtothedatafromeachchip. Colon, and Ovary Adenocarcinomas and Webuiltaclassifieroutofour154trainingsamplesas Identify Differentially Expressed Genes follows. We selected N markers from each of the three tumorclasses,giving3Nmarkersinall(arangeofvalues Comprehensive gene expression profiles of 57 lung, 51 for N was considered, as discussed in the Results sec- colon,and46ovaryprimarycarcinomasweregenerated tion). To classify a new sample of unknown tumor type, using high-density oligonucleotide arrays with 7129 we compute the correlation coefficient between the 3N probesets,whichintotalinterrogatedsome6800genes. markersontheunidentifiedsampleandthesamemark- Toprovideavisualassessmentofrelationshipsbetween ersoneachofthe154trainingsamples.Theclassiden- the tumors based on gene expression, we considered tities of the five training samples having the greatest each sample to be represented by a point in a 7129 correlationwiththeunclassifiedsamplearethenconsid- multidimensionalspace,witheachcoordinategivenbya ered. If three or more of these samples belong to a geneexpressionlevel.Severalviewsofthissetofpoints common class, then this is the predicted class for the were generated using principal component analysis unclassifiedsample.Otherwise,thepredictionisconsid- (PCA),whichlocatesthetwo-dimensionalviewsthatcap- ered to be indeterminate. This strategy is known in the turethegreatestamountofvariabilityinthedata.Wenote classification literature as “five-nearest neighbors with thattheseviewswerebasedsolelyonaggregateexpres- majorityvoting.”3 sion variation and no references to the tissue classifica- Weusedacross-validationproceduretoestimatethe tions were made. We generated four views in all, by error rate of our classifier. In the generic procedure, we stratifyingthegenesintofourquartersofequalsize,and setasideasinglevalidationsample,leaving153samples thenapplyingPCAtothemeasurementsineachquarter to train a classifier, as described above. Note that com- separately (Figure 1). The strata were formed based on paredtotheclassifierthatwouldbeusedinpractice,this the average expression level of each transcript across newclassifierwilluseaslightlydifferentsetofmarkersas the 154 samples; the first stratum contained the 25% of wellashavingonefewertrainingsample.Moreover,this transcriptswiththeleastaverageabundance,thesecond classifierdoesnothaveaccesstotheexpressionvalues stratumcontainedthenext25%ofthegenes,andsoon. ortissuetypeofthesingleheld-outsample.Wethenuse The views determined by PCA (Figure 1) indicated thisclassifiertopredicttheclassoftheheld-outsample, substantial differences in gene expression between the and record whether this prediction is correct. This pro- three tumor types
