Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


ABSTRACT Fibromyalgia is a clinical entity characterized by the combination of chronic widespread pain and other non-pain symptoms, including fatigue, poor sleep, and cognitive disturbances, which can exhibit symptom variation not only between different patients, but also in the same patient during the course of the disease. These symptoms are relatively common and non-specific. They can be encountered in other disorders that may overlap with fibromyalgia, often without having clear boundaries, while their nature makes them difficult to be objectively defined and quantified. These issues have led to significant controversy over the definition and the diagnostic criteria of fibromyalgia. It has been suggested that the markers of physical and psychological distress have a continuous distribution in the general population with fibromyalgia patients being at the extreme end of this continuum. Genetic predisposition in combination with environmental factors, are responsible for each individual’s position in this this distribution. In recent years more knowledge has been obtained to better understand the environmental factors that seem to be important in triggering fibromyalgia. Most of them act as stressors superimposed onto a deranged stress-response system leading to dys-regulation of the nociceptive system and the appearance of clinical symptoms. The aim of the therapy is to relieve pain and motivate the patients to become more physically active using a multimodal individualized therapeutic strategy that includes education, exercise, cognitive-behavioral approaches and medications. The response to current therapeutic modalities varies significantly, with some patients responding adequately, while others do not seem to experience any long-term benefit. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Fibromyalgia is a clinical entity characterized by the combination of ill-defined symptoms including chronic widespread pain, with concomitant fatigue, sleeping disorders, and cognitive disturbances ( 1 ). The severity of these symptoms can vary significantly during the course of the disease. Fibromyalgia has been described as an arbitrarily created syndrome that lies at the extreme end of the spectrum of poly-symptomatic distress ( 2 ). The term poly-symptomatic was used to emphasize the variety of multiple different symptoms that can be found in fibromyalgia patients, while the distress can have a physical and/or a psychological component. This exact nature of fibromyalgia makes it difficult to be clearly defined, often overlapping with disorders that are characterized by similar symptoms. It is important to note that fibromyalgia is not an exclusion diagnosis as it can
