Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


difficult to be clearly defined, often overlapping with disorders that are characterized by similar symptoms. It is important to note that fibromyalgia is not an exclusion diagnosis as it can co-exist with other clinical conditions ( 3 ). CLINICAL FEATURES The main presenting complains of patients with fibromyalgia include chronic widespread pain (also called multisite pain), fatigue, and poor sleep. Usually the pain is initially localized, but eventually it involves many muscle groups. It is characterized as persistent with varying intensity, while it can often be described as a sensation of burning, gnawing soreness, stiffness, or aching. Excessive sensitivity to normally painful stimuli, such as pressure or heat (hyperalgesia) and painful sensation to normally non-painful stimuli, such as touch (allodynia) are significant features of fibromyalgia. Often patients complain of swollen joints and paresthesias without though the presence of any objective clinical findings during physical examination. Pain is often aggravated by cold and humid weather, poor sleep, physical and mental stress. Additionally the patients may have a variety of less well understood pain symptoms, including abdominal pain, chest wall pain, symptoms suggestive of irritable bowel syndrome, pelvic pain, and bladder symptoms of frequency and urgency suggestive of interstitial cystitis ( 4 – 9 ). Fatigue is present in almost all patients with fibromyalgia, while many complain of non-refreshing sleep, frequent awakening during the night, and difficulty falling back to sleep. Sleep apnea and nocturnal myoclonus can also be present along with a sensation of light-headedness, dizziness, and faintness. In addition, cognitive difficulties such as short-term memory loss, groping for words and poor vocabulary, are common among patients with fibromyalgia. Mood disturbances, including depression, anxiety and heightened somatic concern, may often also occur. Headaches, either muscular or migraine type, are also commonly present ( 6 , 7 ). Other often co-existing conditions include multiple chemical sensitivity, “allergic” symptoms, ocular dryness, palpitations, dyspnea, vulvodynia, dysmenorrhea, premenstrual syndrome, sexual dysfunction, weight fluctuations, night sweats, dysphagia, restless leg syndrome, temporomandibular joint pain, chronic fatigue syndrome (systemic exertion intolerance disease), Raynaud`s phenomenon, autonomic dysfunction, and dysgeusia ( 6 , 8 , 9 ). These conditions cannot be used to support the diagnosis of fibromyalgia. Approximately 40% of fibromyalgia patients have accompanying depression at the time of diagnosis, while 60% of patients have a lifetime history of depression. In addition, an anxiety disorder is present in 30% of the cases at the time of diagnosis while the
