Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


diagnosis, while 60% of patients have a lifetime history of depression. In addition, an anxiety disorder is present in 30% of the cases at the time of diagnosis while the lifetime prevalence of an anxiety disorder in fibromyalgia patients is approximately 60% ( 10 – 14 ). The levels of depression and anxiety in patients with fibromyalgia seem to be associated with the degree of cognitive impairment, as shown in a meta-analysis of 23 case-control studies ( 15 ). Based on the coexistence of depression and anxiety, fibromyalgia patients can be divided into 2 major groups. The first group comprises of patients without coexisting mood disorders, while the second of patients with concomitant depressive mood, often in combination with anxiety. According to the results of a study that intended to subgroup fibromyalgia patients based on: 1) mood status (evaluated by the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale for depression and the State-Trait Personality Inventory for symptoms of trait-related anxiety), 2) cognition (by the catastrophizing and control of pain subscales of the Coping Strategies Questionnaire), and 3) hyperalgesia/tenderness (by dolorimetry and random pressure-pain applied at suprathreshold values), it was noted that fibromyalgia patients with depressive mood and anxiety are also ‘catastrophizing’. This term is used to indicate that such patients have a very negative, pessimistic view of what their pain is and what is causing, while they have no sense that they can control their pain. On the contrary fibromyalgia patients who are neither depressed nor anxious and therefore do not catastrophize, have a moderate sense that they can control their pain. These patients can be further divided into 2 subgroups based on the degree of hyperalgesia/tenderness, the first subgroup comprises of patients with high hyperalgesia/tenderness, while the second one of patients with moderate hyperalgesia/tenderness ( 11 ). In addition, it has been proposed that depressed fibromyalgia patients can also be divided into 2 subgroups, in the first one depression is a co-morbid condition, while in the second depression is the cause of fibromyalgia ( 16 ). All these fibromyalgia subgroups are illustrated in Figure 1 . In another study fibromyalgia patients were classified as dysfunctional, inter-personally distressed, or adaptive copers, based on their responses to the Multidimensional Pain Inventory. The dysfunctional patients experienced more pain behaviors and overt expressions of pain, distress, and suffering, such as slowed movement, bracing, limping, and grimacing compared to the inter-personally distressed or the adaptive
