Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


dysfunctional patients experienced more pain behaviors and overt expressions of pain, distress, and suffering, such as slowed movement, bracing, limping, and grimacing compared to the inter-personally distressed or the adaptive copers ( 17 ). It is of interest that up to 25% of patients correctly diagnosed with a systemic rheumatic disease (e.g. rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus) will also fulfill the classification criteria for fibromyalgia ( 18 ). This is also the case for many patients who experience persistent various forms of pain (including widespread myalgias, arthralgias, and headache), fatigue, neurocognitive dysfunction, and sleep disturbances after an infection with Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) that caused a mild to moderate coronavirus disease 2019 (long COVID) ( 19 , 20 ). The most commonly encountered comorbid conditions in fibromyalgia patients are shown in Table 1 . Table 1. The Most Commonly Encountered Co-Morbid Conditions in Fibromyalgia View in own window Sleep disorders Non restorative sleep (alpha-delta sleep anomaly) Sleep apnea Restless leg syndrome Nocturnal myoclonus Chronic fatigue syndrome (systemic exertion intolerance disease) Psychiatric disorders Anxiety disorders Depression Obsessive compulsive disorder Headache Tension type headache Migraine Irritable bowel syndrome Musculofascial pain syndrome Temporomandibular disorders Interstitial cystitis Dysmenorrhea Premenstrual syndrome Non-cardiac chest pain Raynaud’s phenomenon Systemic autoimmune diseases Rheumatoid arthritis Systematic lupus erythematosus Sjögren’s syndrome Ankylosing spondylitis and other seronegative spondylarthritis Polymyalgia rheumatica Long COVID ASSESSMENT Fibromyalgia is a chronic illness, with a variety of symptoms that can change during the course of the disease and after treatment. Therefore, its core symptoms should be evaluated both in clinical practice and in treatment trials. A working group within OMERACT (Outcome Measures in Rheumatology) reached a consensus regarding the domains that need to be assessed in clinical trials for fibromyalgia, using Delphi exercises within patients and expert clinicians ( 21 ). The fibromyalgia core symptom domains include pain intensity, tenderness, fatigue, sleep disturbance, multidimensional function (including health related quality of life and physical function), patient global impression of change, cognitive dysfunction, and depression. However at the present time, there is no consensus on how to evaluate these domains, in order to quantify fibromyalgia disease activity state and/or response ( 22 ). Pain intensity can be assessed using visual analog scales. It has been proposed to use the wording “please rate your pain by circling on the number that best describes your pain on average” and has anchors that vary from “no pain” to
