Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


proposed to use the wording “please rate your pain by circling on the number that best describes your pain on average” and has anchors that vary from “no pain” to “pain as bad as you can imagine” ( 23 ). Tenderness can be measured by evaluating the alteration of the severity of pain at the tender points, using visual or analog scales, but not by the change in their number. The change in the number of tender points is poorly correlated with improvement in fibromyalgia treatment trials. It has been noted that the tender points measure the combination of tenderness and distress an individual has, rendering them inadequate for the evaluation of tenderness per se ( 24 ). Fatigue can be evaluated by the Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS), which measures the functional outcomes related to fatigue ( 25 ). It has been shown that FSS has the most robust psychometric properties of 19 reviewed fatigue measures, while it had the best ability to act as an outcome measure sensitive to change with treatment, in chronically ill patients ( 26 ). Other instruments that have been used to assess fatigue in fibromyalgia patients include the Multidimensional Fatigue Index and the Multidimensional Assessment of Fatigue. Sleep disturbance in fibromyalgia patients has been evaluated by the Medical Outcome Studies (MOS) sleep scale, the Functional Outcomes of Sleep Questionnaire (FOSQ), and the Jenkins Sleep Scale (JSS). Of these instruments MOS sleep scale lacks validity to assess changes in sleep symptoms in fibromyalgia treatment trials, FOSQ has not been adequately validated in fibromyalgia patients, while JSS has been criticized for possible high-recall bias, since it requires the patients to rate the frequency of their symptoms over a period of a month ( 23 ). Multidimensional function , including health related quality of life and physical function, can be evaluated using the fibromyalgia impact questionnaire (FIQ). This represents a useful tool in assessing functional abilities in daily life and measures patient status, progress and outcomes. FIQ is self-administered and is highly sensitive to changes during the course of the disease. However, its functional items are orientated toward high levels of disability, resulting in a possible floor effect, while its physical function items are addressed to women living in affluent countries, generating gender and ethnic bias. To address these issues the Revised Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQR) was developed, having modified physical function questions and including questions on
