Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


living in affluent countries, generating gender and ethnic bias. To address these issues the Revised Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQR) was developed, having modified physical function questions and including questions on memory, tenderness, balance and environmental sensitivity, while keeping questions that evaluate overall impact and symptoms ( 27 ). Other tools for assessing overall function and quality of life include the Health Assessment Questionnaire, the Symptom Interpretation Questionnaire, the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index, the Patient Global Impression of Change scale (PGIC), and psychometric scales ( 28 ). Patient global impression of change can be evaluated by the Patient Global Impression of Change scale (PGIC), as recommended by the Initiative on Methods, Measurement, and Pain Assessment in Clinical Trials (IMMPACT) ( 29 ). Cognitive dysfunction can be evaluated by the Multiple Ability Self-report Questionnaire (MASQ), which is a self-report questionnaire measuring language, visuoperception, verbal memory and attention ( 30 ). However self-assessment is poorly correlated with objective measures of cognitive function and has poor discriminating ability for patients with mild cognitive impairment ( 31 ). Depression can be evaluated using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) depression subscale (HADS-D). The use of the original Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) as well as the current BDI-II, should be avoided, since they tend to overestimate the presence of major depressive disorder in fibromyalgia patients by evaluating a number of non-depressive symptoms, which are often encountered in fibromyalgia ( 23 ). DIAGNOSIS As already mentioned, fibromyalgia is characterized by symptoms that can vary in number and intensity not only between different patients, but also in the same patient during the course of the disease. These symptoms are also common in other disorders that can overlap with fibromyalgia, often without having clear boundaries. Additionally, the nature of the symptoms of fibromyalgia makes them difficult to be objectively defined and measured. All these issues have led to significant controversy over the definition and diagnosis of fibromyalgia. The clinical entity of fibromyalgia was first described in 1904, under the term “fibrositis”, after focusing on clinical evidence of muscle sensitivity ( 32 ). It was not until 1977 that specific criteria for the diagnosis of fibromyalgia were introduced ( 33 ). Since then a number of different criteria have been proposed, based on a combination of tender point examination and the presence of symptoms. In 1986 a committee of the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) started
