Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


different criteria have been proposed, based on a combination of tender point examination and the presence of symptoms. In 1986 a committee of the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) started a multicenter study, trying to provide a definition of fibromyalgia and establish classification criteria ( 34 ). In 2013, the Analgesic, Anesthetic, and Addiction Clinical Trial Translations Innovations Opportunities and Networks (ACTTION) public-private partnership with the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and American Pain Society (APS) initiated the ACTTION-APS Pain Taxonomy (AAPT) in an attempt to develop a diagnostic system that would be clinically useful and consistent across chronic pain disorders, including fibromyalgia ( 35 ). In clinical practice either the 2016 revision of the 2010/2011 fibromyalgia diagnostic criteria or the AAPT criteria can be used to help physicians to diagnose fibromyalgia ( 36 ). However, these criteria should be viewed as an aid and not as a gold standard for diagnosing fibromyalgia in clinical practice. Good clinical judgment is necessary to interpret the findings of physical examination and to assess psychological factors and associated comorbidities so as to correctly identify the patients with fibromyalgia ( 37 ). Relevant social, personal and family history can be helpful in establishing the diagnosis of fibromyalgia, since there is evidence that the symptoms of fibromyalgia can appear after a physical or emotional trauma, a medical illness, or a surgical operation, while a family history of fibromyalgia, makes the diagnosis of fibromyalgia more likely ( 38 ). 1990 ACR Classification Criteria In 1990 the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) committee established criteria for the classification of fibromyalgia. According to these criteria fibromyalgia is defined as chronic widespread pain involving both sides of the body, above and below the waist, as well as the whole length of the spine, and excessive tenderness in the pressure of 11 of 18 specific muscle-tendon sites (9 pairs of tender points). The locations of the tender points are described in Figure 2 and Table 2 . Pressure equivalent of 4 kg/cm is applied to these points using the pulp of the thumb or the first two or three fingers. This can be accurately measured with a dolorimeter or it can be estimated, since 4 kg/cm is the pressure needed to be applied so as to whiten the examiner’s fingernail bed. These criteria specifically state that fibromyalgia is not an exclusionary diagnosis ( 34 ). Table 2. Description of
