Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


needed to be applied so as to whiten the examiner’s fingernail bed. These criteria specifically state that fibromyalgia is not an exclusionary diagnosis ( 34 ). Table 2. Description of the Location of Fibromyalgia Tender Points View in own window Occiput: at the insertions of one or more of the following muscles: trapezius, sternocleidomastoid, splenius capitus, semispinalis capitus Trapezius: at the midpoint of the upper border Supraspinatus: above the scapular spine near the medial border Gluteal: at the upper outer quadrant of the buttocks at the anterior edge of the gluteus maximus Low cervical: at the anterior aspect of the interspaces between the transverse processes of C5–C7 Second rib: just lateral to the second costochondral junctions Lateral epicondyle: 2 cm distal to the lateral epicondyle Greater trochanter: posterior to the greater trochanteric prominence Knee: at the medial fat pad proximal to the joint line The tender points, which are examined in fibromyalgia, are not just areas that the patient feels pain. They are points that fibromyalgia patients are relatively more tender, compared to normal individuals, when pressure is applied on them. But fibromyalgia patients are more tender wherever you apply pressure, not only to some of these 18 specific tender points, including areas previously considered to be “control points” ( 39 ). There is evidence that these tender points are areas that everyone is generally more tender. In contrast, fibromyalgia patients are more tender not only to pressure but to other stimuli such as heat, cold and other sensory stimuli, most probably due to decreased pain threshold. The number of tender points an individual has is highly correlated with distress, as defined by the presence of anxiety, depression, sleep disturbance, fatigue and global severity. Tender points have been described as “a sedimentation rate of distress”. Consequently tender points measure the combination of tenderness and distress an individual has ( 24 ). The use of the 1990 ACR classification criteria in clinical practice is surrounded by substantial controversy. Tender points were introduced as an objective physical finding. However, if the physician who performs the physical examination is not experienced enough, tender point counting is impossible to be performed accurately. Most of the physicians examining fibromyalgia patients did not know how to carry out the tender point examination. Consequently, tender point count was not routinely performed, and when performed it was performed inaccurately ( 40 ). Another shortcoming of the tender point
