Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


carry out the tender point examination. Consequently, tender point count was not routinely performed, and when performed it was performed inaccurately ( 40 ). Another shortcoming of the tender point counting is that it is not as objective as it was initially considered, since the physician can be biased by the patient’s interview that precedes the physical examination. These issues lead to a low inter-examiner reliability of the tender point count ( 41 ). Other more sophisticated measures of assessing tenderness, such as applying stimuli randomly, when the individual cannot anticipate what the next stimulus is going to be, are equally abnormal in fibromyalgia patients, but do not correlate with distress ( 39 ). These methods require special training and are more time consuming than the trigger point count. Other alternative assessment methods include functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and nociceptive flexion reflex (NFR) testing, which documents abnormal pain processing in fibromyalgia. Functional MRI demonstrates similar brain activation in regions involved in pain processing in fibromyalgia patients and normal individuals. However fibromyalgia patients have increased pain sensitivity and brain activation during comparable stimulus ( 42 ). Nociceptive flexion reflexes are sensory-motor responses elicited by electrical noxious stimuli, which involve activation of spinal and supraspinal neuronal circuits, providing an objective and quantitative assessment of the function of the pain-control system. It has been demonstrated that the NFR threshold in patients with fibromyalgia is significantly decreased compared with that in controls ( 43 ). Of these methods fMRI is expensive and complex compared to NFR testing that appears to be more easily accessible and convenient, since standard electromyographic equipment can be used. This test also seems to eliminate subjective bias and dissimulation ( 44 ). The 1990 ACR classification criteria, define fibromyalgia in terms of pain rather than its other features. However, patients with fibromyalgia apart from tenderness and pain, also have a number of other somatic symptoms. Although non-pain symptoms are important, there is no evidence to support the notion that they are more important than hyperalgesia and allodynia, which are key symptoms of fibromyalgia ( 44 ). Many clinicians with experience in fibromyalgia did not feel that the 1990 ACR classification criteria were sufficiently reliable for the diagnosis of fibromyalgia in clinical practice and were considering other aspects of the disease in an attempt to reach a more accurate diagnosis ( 38 ). 2010 ACR Preliminary Diagnostic Criteria To address
