Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


in clinical practice and were considering other aspects of the disease in an attempt to reach a more accurate diagnosis ( 38 ). 2010 ACR Preliminary Diagnostic Criteria To address the aforementioned issues the ACR in 2010 proposed the preliminary diagnostic criteria for fibromyalgia (Table 3), that were not meant to replace the 1990 ACR classification criteria, but to represent an alternative simple and easy method of diagnosis in clinical practice ( 45 ). These diagnostic criteria do not require a tender point count. Instead, they rely only on symptoms for the diagnosis of fibromyalgia. They introduced the widespread pain index (WPI), which counts the areas that the patient feels pain during one week preceding the examination, and the symptom severity (SS) scale, which describes the severity of fatigue, unrefreshing sleep, cognitive problems, and a number of associated somatic fibromyalgia symptoms. These symptoms need to be assessed and rated by a physician, therefore the 2010 ACR preliminary diagnostic criteria are in-adequate for patient self-diagnosis. Two more conditions need to be fulfilled so as to diagnose fibromyalgia. The symptoms need to be present at a similar level for at least 3 months while alternate disorders that would otherwise explain the pain need to be excluded (Table 3). The authors of the 2010 ACR preliminary diagnostic criteria have clarified that the latter condition does not mean that fibromyalgia is an exclusion diagnosis according to these criteria. The diagnosis of fibromyalgia should not be made only when there is not another disease that could explain the pain that would otherwise be attributed to fibromyalgia. It should be noted that rheumatic diseases usually do not cause pain that can be confused with fibromyalgia ( 3 ). Table 3. 2010 ACR Preliminary Diagnostic Criteria View in own window Criteria: A patient satisfies diagnostic criteria for fibromyalgia if the following 3 conditions are met: 1) Widespread pain index (WPI) ≥7 and symptom severity (SS) scale score ≥5 or Widespread pain index (WPI) 3-6 and symptom severity (SS) scale score ≥9. 2) Symptoms have been present at a similar level for at least 3 months. 3) The patient does not have a disorder that would otherwise explain the pain. Ascertainment: 1) WPI Note the number of areas in which the patient has had pain over the last week. In how many areas has the patient had pain? (Score will be between 0 and 19) -Neck -Upper arm,
