Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


in patients who do not have sufficient tender points according to the 1990 criteria. The introduction of the 2010 ACR preliminary diagnostic criteria was surrounded by controversy too. In particular, they have been criticized for being completely symptom focused, ill-defined, and lucking some mechanistic features of fibromyalgia, such as hyperalgesia, central sensitization and dysfunctional pain modulation ( 54 ). Additionally, these diagnostic criteria are based on the subjective assessment of the patient’s somatic symptoms by the physician, adding ambiguity and influencing repeatability among different physicians ( 55 ). A self-reported version of the 2010 ACR preliminary diagnostic criteria was developed in 2011, so as to be used in survey research, and not in clinical practice ( 56 ). These criteria are known as the modified 2010 ACR preliminary diagnostic criteria or the 2011 ACR survey criteria. They introduced the fibromyalgia severity (FS) score (originally called fibromyalgianess scale) which is the sum of the self-reported WPI and SS score. This score can be used as an approximate measure of the severity of fibromyalgia. The FS score has also been called polysymptomatic distress (PSD) scale. It has been proposed that the markers of physical and psychological distress have a continuous distribution in the general population with fibromyalgia patients being at the extreme end of this distribution ( 57 ). The PSD scale could be useful to define the position of each individual in this continuum, without having to differentiate between patients with fibromyalgia and those without, as this distinction can sometimes be unclear if not arbitrary ( 58 ). 2016 Revisions to the 2010/2011 Fibromyalgia Diagnostic Criteria A limitation of the WPI is the fact that it counts the number of painful areas without considering their distribution in the body. Patients with regional pain disorders can fulfill the 2010 ACR preliminary diagnostic criteria since pain can be located in 3 or more areas in the same region ( 59 ). To overcome this issue the 2016 revision of the diagnostic criteria require the pain to be generalized (multisite pain). The areas WPI assesses are divided in 5 regions ( Table 4 ) and the diagnosis of fibromyalgia requires the distribution of pain in 4 out of 5 regions ( 60 ). The jaw, the chest and the abdomen area are problematic when they are used to define a region. In this way they are excluded from the definition of generalized pain (
