Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


jaw, the chest and the abdomen area are problematic when they are used to define a region. In this way they are excluded from the definition of generalized pain ( 61 ). Since pain needs to be located in at least 4 areas according to the 2016 revision, the previous criterion for diagnosis, WPI of 3-6 and SS scale score ≥9 was changed to WPI of 4-6 and SS scale score ≥9. The 2010 and 2011 ACR preliminary diagnostic criteria are extremely similar. Their difference is that the 2010 criteria are physician-based and can be used in clinical practice for the diagnosis of fibromyalgia, while the 2011 criteria are self-reported and can be used only in survey research. According to the 2010 criteria the SS scale assesses a wide range of somatic symptoms, which makes them impractical for use in questionnaires. With the 2016 revision the assessment of somatic symptoms that is included in the SS scale is limited to headaches, pain and cramps in the lower abdomen and depression. In this way, there is no longer need for different criteria for clinical practice and for survey research. The same criteria can be used in both settings having 2 different methods of administration. One prerequisite for diagnosis of fibromyalgia according to the 2010 ACR preliminary diagnostic criteria is the patient not to have a condition that would otherwise explain the pain. The authors of these criteria clarified that this does not mean that the diagnosis of fibromyalgia is an exclusion diagnosis. However, this phrasing was not considered clear enough and caused significant misunderstanding. In this way this criterion was removed in the 2016 revision. The diagnosis of fibromyalgia can be valid even if there is another condition that can cause the pain that is attributed to fibromyalgia. According to this definition fibromyalgia can coexist with other clinically significant conditions that can cause pain. Table 4. 2016 Revisions to the 2010/2011 Fibromyalgia Diagnostic Criteria View in own window Criteria: A patient satisfies diagnostic criteria for fibromyalgia if the following 3 conditions are met: 1) Widespread pain index (WPI) ≥7 and symptom severity (SS) scale score ≥5 or Widespread pain index (WPI) 4-6 and symptom severity (SS) scale score ≥9. 2) Generalized pain: Pain must be present in at least 4 of 5 regions. Jaw, chest, and abdominal pain are not included in generalized pain definition. 3) Symptoms have been generally for
