Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


to the ACR criteria as they require the pain to be generalized (multisite), require the presence of non-pain symptoms and require the symptoms to be present for at least 3 months ( Table 5 ). These diagnostic criteria are more simple than the ACR criteria and they can be easily implemented in primary clinical practice, but some of their aspects have been criticized ( 63 ). According to the AAPT criteria the head, the abdomen and the chest are included in the areas that are assessed for the presence of generalized musculoskeletal pain. However, these regions are problematic since pain originating from the teeth, the heart and the bowel can be referred to these areas. Additionally, the AAPT criteria do not have the ability to quantify the severity of fibromyalgia as, apart from the generalized pain, they only assess the presence or absence of the 2 most common non-pain symptoms of fibromyalgia, abolishing all other somatic symptoms. Compared with the 2016 ACR diagnostic criteria, individuals with less symptom severity and fewer pain sites can be classified as fibromyalgia patients, when the AAPT diagnostic criteria are used ( 64 ). Table 5. AAPT Diagnostic Criteria View in own window Criteria: Multisite pain defined as 6 or more pain sites from a total of 9 possible sites: - Head - Left arm - Right arm - Chest - Abdomen - Upper back and spine - Lower back and spine, including buttocks - Left leg - Right leg Moderate to severe sleep problems or fatigue Multisite pain plus fatigue or sleep problems must have been present for at least 3 months NOTE. The presence of another pain disorder or related symptoms does not rule out a diagnosis of fibromyalgia. However, a clinical assessment is recommended to evaluate for any condition that could fully account for the patient’s symptoms or contribute to the severity of the symptoms. EPIDEMIOLOGY The prevalence of fibromyalgia depends on the criteria used to define it. Most studies use either the 1990 ACR classification criteria or the modified 2010 ACR preliminary diagnostic criteria (2011 ACR survey criteria) and the prevalence varies between 2-4% ( 65 ). Using the 2016 ACR diagnostic criteria the prevalence of fibromyalgia in the general population is 3-4% while with the AAPT diagnostic criteria the prevalence of fibromyalgia is 73% higher, ranging from 5% to 7% ( 64 ). In the general population the prevalence increases
