Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


is 3-4% while with the AAPT diagnostic criteria the prevalence of fibromyalgia is 73% higher, ranging from 5% to 7% ( 64 ). In the general population the prevalence increases with age from 2% at the age of 20 to 8% at age of 70. Fibromyalgia appears more often in relatives of patients suffering from fibromyalgia ( 66 ), whereas there is a significant difference on the women to men ratio depending on the criteria used to define fibromyalgia. When the 1990 ACR classification criteria are used the women to men ratio is 7:1 while when the 2011 ACR survey criteria are used, that do not use the tender point count, the ratio ranges from 4:1 to 1:1 ( 58 , 67 – 69 ). Using the 2016 ACR or the AAPT diagnostic criteria there is no statistically significant difference in the prevalence of fibromyalgia between women and men ( 64 ). DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS Several conditions can mimic or overlap with fibromyalgia. In order to reach a differential diagnosis, careful history taking should be followed by a thorough physical examination. Careful neurologic and musculoskeletal examination needs to be performed in all fibromyalgia patients in order to exclude the presence of such conditions. Mood and functional impairment should also be evaluated. This can be easily performed using simple self-administered questionnaires. Patients with obvious mood disturbances should have a formal evaluation by a mental health professional. Baseline blood tests should be limited to a complete blood count, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, a comprehensive metabolic panel, and thyroid function tests. These tests are usually normal in fibromyalgia patients. Consequently, the identification of abnormalities in any of these examinations might suggest that a different condition is present. Additional tests are not recommended for a diagnosis, unless they are clinically indicated. The disorders that can mimic and/or overlap with fibromyalgia and the characteristic clinical features which differentiate them from fibromyalgia are described in Table 6. The clinical features of fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue syndrome (systemic exertion intolerance disease), depression, migraine, and irritable bowel syndrome often overlap being so interchangeable that some authors consider that these conditions should be approached as a “spectrum” of associated disorders ( 10 ). They are also considered as part of the spectrum of post-traumatic stress disorder ( 70 , 71 ). Table 1. Disorders that can Mimic and/or Overlap with Fibromyalgia Along with Characteristic Clinical Features that Differentiate Them from Fibromyalgia View
