Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


of post-traumatic stress disorder ( 70 , 71 ). Table 1. Disorders that can Mimic and/or Overlap with Fibromyalgia Along with Characteristic Clinical Features that Differentiate Them from Fibromyalgia View in own window Disorders Differentiating clinical features Rheumatoid arthritis, Systematic Lupus Erythematosus, Sjögren’s syndrome Characteristic synovitis and systemic features of connective tissue disease, apart from musculoskeletal pain, fatigue, Raynaud phenomenon, dry eyes and dry mouth, are usually not features of fibromyalgia. Routine serologic tests are not recommended because of low positive predictive value. Ankylosing spondylitis, other inflammatory back conditions Generally, there is normal spinal motion in fibromyalgia. Characteristic radiologic features of these disorders are not present in fibromyalgia. Polymyalgia rheumatica Tender points are not always present in polymyalgia rheumatica. Stiffness is more prominent than pain in polymyalgia rheumatica. Most patients with polymyalgia rheumatica have increased erythrocyte sedimentation rate, while it is normal in fibromyalgia. Patients with polymyalgia rheumatica respond extremely well to modest doses of corticosteroids, in contrast to fibromyalgia patients. Inflammatory myositis, metabolic myopathies Myositis and myopathies can cause muscle weakness and muscle fatigue, but they are not usually associated with diffuse pain. Patients with myositis or myopathies have abnormal muscle enzyme tests and specific histopathologic findings on muscle biopsy, in contrast to fibromyalgia patients (muscle biopsy should be limited to cases that there is clinical evidence suggestive of myositis or myopathy). Statin myopathy Statin myopathy symptoms are limited to muscle weakness and pain without other symptoms associated with fibromyalgia. Statin myopathy pain is temporally associated with statin therapy. Statin myopathy can be associated with abnormal muscle enzyme tests. Infection: chronic viral infection (e.g., infectious mononucleosis, HIV, HTLV, HBV, HCV, Lyme disease), long COVID In fibromyalgia patients there is no objective evidence of inflammation or organ system dysfunction Hypothyroidism Although thyroid autoantibodies are common in fibromyalgia patients, thyroid function tests are usually normal. Hyperparathyroidism Hypercalcemia is not present in fibromyalgia. Cushing’s syndrome Cushing’s syndrome is associated with muscle weakness rather than pain. The characteristic facial and skin signs of Cushing’s syndrome are not present in fibromyalgia. Adrenal insufficiency Adrenal insufficiency causes severe exhaustion, while it is not typically associated with chronic widespread pain. Hypophosphatasia Most hypophosphatasia patients have low alkaline phosphatase Neurologic diseases: peripheral neuropathies, cervical radiculopathy, entrapment syndromes (e.g., carpal tunnel syndrome), multiple sclerosis, myasthenia gravis Multiple sclerosis and myasthenia gravis are associated with post-exercise muscle and generalized fatigue, but not with widespread pain. Thorough neurologic examination can
