Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


included in the criteria for diagnosis of chronic fatigue syndrome Psychiatric disorders: depression, anxiety disorders, posttraumatic stress disorder In fibromyalgia patients with a concurrent psychiatric disorder, the attribution of symptoms to fibromyalgia or the psychiatric disorder is not always possible. Sleep disorders: obstructive sleep apnea, restless legs syndrome, periodic limb movement disorders Detail history can identify the majority of the primary sleep disorders. Chronic widespread pain is uncommon in primary sleep disorders. Irritable bowel syndrome According to the 2009 American College of Gastroenterology recommendations for the diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome, it is defined by abdominal pain or discomfort that occurs in association with altered bowel habits over a period of at least three months ( 74 ). Temporomandibular disorders Temporomandibular disorders are characterized by recurrent facial/jaw pain and/or limitation in jaw opening occurring in the past six months. Tension – Migraine headache Tension – migraine headache is characterized by recurrent headaches (at least five for migraine, at least 10 for tension-type) lasting 30 minutes. Interstitial cystitis According to the American Urological Association guidelines interstitial cystitis is defined as an unpleasant sensation (pain, pressure, discomfort) perceived to be related to the urinary bladder, associated with lower urinary tract symptoms of more than six weeks duration, in the absence of infection or other identifiable causes ( 75 ). HIV: human immunodeficiency virus, HTLV: human T-lymphotropic virus, HBV: hepatitis B virus, HCV: hepatitis C virus, COVID: coronavirus disease. PATHOPHYSIOLOGICAL MECHANISMS Pain sensitivity in the population occurs over a wide continuum, forming a classic bell-shaped curve, just like any other physiologic variable. Genetic predisposition in combination with environmental factors, determine the place that each individual takes in this continuum. People who are placed in the right end of this curve are very sensitive to pain and they can probably develop pain even without having any inflammation or damage in the peripheral tissues. This pain can be either regional or widespread ( 39 ). In the past fibromyalgia was thought to be a primary muscle disease. However, controlled studies found no evidence of significant pathologic or biochemical muscle abnormalities that can be the cause of chronic widespread pain and tenderness. Most investigators believe that any muscle pathology is secondary to chronic pain and inactivity, rather than primary in nature ( 76 – 79 ). Current research suggests that altered central nervous system (CNS) physiology might underlie the symptoms of fibromyalgia. Abnormal central sensory processing
