Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


rather than primary in nature ( 76 – 79 ). Current research suggests that altered central nervous system (CNS) physiology might underlie the symptoms of fibromyalgia. Abnormal central sensory processing of pain signals seems to play a significant role in the pathogenesis of fibromyalgia. This dysregulation of the nociceptive system can arise from a combination of interactions between neurotransmitters, cytokines, hormones, the autonomic nervous system, behavioral constructs, and external stressors. Abnormalities in Sensory Processing Fibromyalgia overlaps with several other similar syndromes including chronic fatigue syndrome (systemic exertion intolerance disease) and myophasial pain syndrome (Table 6). It has been proposed that these disorders should be considered as members of the central sensitivity syndromes ( Table 7 ). These similar and overlapping syndromes are bound by the common mechanism of central sensitization that involves hyper-excitement of the second-order neurons, especially the wide-dynamic-range neurons (WDR) in the dorsal horns of the spinal cord, by various synaptic and neurotransmitter/neuromodulator activities ( 6 ). Central sensitization is clinically and physiologically characterized by hyperalgesia, allodynia, expansion of the receptive field (pain expanding beyond the area of the peripheral nerve supply, after the application of a nociceptive stimulus), prolonged electrophysiological discharge, and an after-stimulus unpleasant quality of the pain (e.g., burning, throbbing, tingling or numbness). Parallel to central sensitization, temporal summation takes place in the second-order neurons. It is characterized by a progressive increase in electrical discharges (and consequently increase in the perceived intensity of pain) in response to repetitive short noxious stimuli. Temporal summation involves the production of second pain, which is described as dull or burning, and leaves an after-stimulus unpleasant sensation ( 80 ). Table 7. Central Sensitivity Syndromes View in own window Fibromyalgia Chronic fatigue syndrome (systemic exertion intolerance disease) Irritable bowel syndrome Tension type headaches Migraine Temporomandibular disorder Myophasial pain syndrome Restless leg syndrome Periodic limb movements in sleep Primary dysmenorrhea Interstitial cystitis Posttraumatic stress disorder N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are mostly responsible for escalation of hyperexcitability of the second-order nociceptive neurons. The role of the major neurotransmitters of the nociceptive system that participate in signal conduction at the level of the spinal cord is briefly illustrated in Figure 3 ( 6 ). The second-order neurons have ascending projections to the thalamus, hypothalamus, the limbic system and the somatosensory cortex. These supraspinal structures are involved in the sensory, evaluative and affective dimensions of pain (e.g., unpleasantness, emotional reaction). Several descending pathways from the
