Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


the limbic system and the somatosensory cortex. These supraspinal structures are involved in the sensory, evaluative and affective dimensions of pain (e.g., unpleasantness, emotional reaction). Several descending pathways from the cortico-reticular system, locus ceruleus, hypothalamus, brain stem, and local spinal cord interneurons terminate to the dorsal horn cells. These pathways utilize neurotransmitters that include serotonin (5-HT), norepinephrine, γ-amino-butyric acid (GABA), enkephalins and adenosine ( 6 ). This descending system, once thought to be predominantly inhibitory, is now known to have a facilitatory potential ( 81 ). Evidence suggests that the 5-HT 3 receptor has a facilitatory function, while the 5H-T 1A receptor is inhibitory. The ascending and descending pathways should not be considered as dichotomous in function. They are interactive and their functions are bidirectional. Both pathways can either facilitate or inhibit pain, depending on the site of action and the neurotransmitters that are used ( 6 ). The dysregulation of the nociceptive system, either at the level of the dorsal horns of the spinal cord, or at the level of the ascending and descending pathways, can lead to its hyper-excitability. In other words, it can lead to central sensitization. Several factors may amplify and sustain central sensitization through interactive and synergistic actions. These factors are summarized in Table 8 ( 80 ). Central sensitization can become self-sustained, even when the event that triggered it no longer exists, due to long-term CNS plasticity. Table 8. Factors that may Amplify and Sustain Central Sensitization View in own window Genetics Sympathetic over-activity Endocrine dysfunctions Viral infection Peripheral nociception generators (e.g., arthritis) Poor sleep Environmental stimuli (e.g., weather, noise, chemicals) Psychological distress (e.g., adverse childhood experience) Neuroimaging studies provide moderate evidence for structural changes in the brain of patients with fibromyalgia. Gray matter volume appears to be reduced in areas related with pain processing, such as the cingulate, the insular, and the prefrontal cortices ( 82 ). Functional MRI studies reveal alterations in the functional connectivity of brain areas responsible for pain processing and provide support of functional dysregulation of the ascending and descending pain pathways in fibromyalgia patients ( 82 – 85 ). Additionally, alterations in neuronal activity between the ventral and the dorsal spinal cord have been demonstrated in fibromyalgia patients ( 86 ). Although nearly all of the research on sensory processing in fibromyalgia has focused on the processing of pain, there are some data suggesting a more generalized disturbance
