Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


( 86 ). Although nearly all of the research on sensory processing in fibromyalgia has focused on the processing of pain, there are some data suggesting a more generalized disturbance in sensory processing. There is evidence that fibromyalgia patients have a hypersensitivity to unpleasant stimuli of other sensory systems. For example, many patients experience reduced tolerance to loud noises, bright lights, odors, drugs, and chemicals ( 87 , 88 ). Neurotransmitters The levels of Substance P (SP) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in patients with fibromyalgia are significantly increased compared to normal individuals, whereas CSF levels of serotonin metabolites are decreased, as are metabolites of dopamine and norepinephrine ( 89 ). The first direct evidence that fibromyalgia patients may have abnormal dopamine response to pain originated from positron emission tomography (PET) competitive binding studies using the D 2 /D 3 receptor antagonist [ 11 C] raclopride. It was shown that dopamine is released in response to tonic toxic noxious muscle stimulation, but not after non-painful muscle stimulation in healthy human subjects. In contrast the dopamine response in fibromyalgia patients did not differ between painful and non-painful muscle stimulation ( 87 ). There are indications that disturbances of the opioidergic system occur in fibromyalgia patients, as there is an up-regulation of opioid receptors in the periphery, with a reduction of the brain opioid receptors ( 90 , 91 ). This implies an increased baseline endogenous opioidergic activity. Opioids can activate glial cells, via a non-stereoselective activation of toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4). Glial cells in turn can mediate pain by releasing neuroexcitatory, pro-inflammatory products ( 92 ). In a study where fibromyalgia patients were evaluated for cortical excitability and intracortical modulation using transcranial magnetic stimulation of the motor cortex, it was shown that there were deficits in intracortical modulation of GABAergic and glutamatergic mechanisms ( 93 ). Diminished inhibitory neurotransmission resulting from lower concentrations of GABA within the right anterior insula of patients with fibromyalgia was documented using proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( 94 ). Evidence for enhanced glutaminergic neurotransmission in fibromyalgia patients is derived from studies that used magnetic resonance spectroscopy. It was shown that fibromyalgia patients have significantly higher levels of glutamine within the posterior insula and in the right amygdala ( 95 , 96 ). The levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, which is involved in neuronal survival and synaptic plasticity of the central and peripheral nervous system, have been
