Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


amygdala ( 95 , 96 ). The levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, which is involved in neuronal survival and synaptic plasticity of the central and peripheral nervous system, have been found to be increased both in the brain and in the plasma of fibromyalgia patients ( 97 ). Cytokines Although fibromyalgia is not considered an inflammatory disorder, the interaction of immunological mechanisms with pain physiology, has led to the identification of alterations in the levels of various cytokines ( 98 ). However, it is not clear whether cytokine changes are the cause of pain in these patients, or just its consequence. The serum levels of interleukin 1 receptor antibody (IL-1Ra), IL-6, and IL-8, and the plasma levels of IL-8 are higher in fibromyalgia patients, compared to controls ( 99 ). Inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1β, IL-6 and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα) have been detected in skin biopsies taken from fibromyalgia patients, possibly indicating an element of neurogenic inflammation ( 100 ). Lower levels of the anti-inflammatory cytokines IL-4 and IL-10 have been reported in fibromyalgia patients compared to healthy controls ( 101 , 102 ). However, the interpretation of cytokine levels is not always easy. Most cytokines are expressed in low levels and a sensitive bioassay is needed for their detection. Consequently, a negative result can merely be the ramification of a not sensitive enough method. Additionally, cytokine levels can be vigorously influenced by a number of factors, including circadian rhythmicity, physical activity, and co-morbid conditions, including depression. Inflammatory cytokines like IL-1β, IL-6 and TNFα can elicit pain, induce hyperalgesia and they are associated with neuropathic pain ( 103 ), although they do not appear to be involved in “normal” pain. Although serum cytokines do pass the blood brain barrier the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines by immune cells in the body leads, in turn, to release of pro-inflammatory cytokines by glial cells within the brain and spinal cord ( 104 ).Inflammatory cytokines like IL-1β, IL-6 and TNFα can also cause activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis alone, or in synergy with each other. There is evidence to suggest that IL-6, which is the main endocrine cytokine, plays the most significant role in the immune stimulation of the axis, especially in chronic inflammatory stress ( 105 ). IL-6 can stimulate the hypothalamic secretion of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and arginine vasopressin (AVP), leading to the increase of serum adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)
