Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


in chronic inflammatory stress ( 105 ). IL-6 can stimulate the hypothalamic secretion of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and arginine vasopressin (AVP), leading to the increase of serum adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and cortisol levels ( 106 ). Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal Axis There is substantial data supporting an abnormal function of the HPA axis in fibromyalgia. However, the results from studies on the HPA axis function in fibromyalgia patients are relatively heterogeneous and partially contradictory ( 107 ). The 24-hour urinary free cortisol (UFC) has been found to be reduced or normal ( 108 ). Findings regarding alterations in diurnal variation of cortisol secretion are also inconsistent. Although normal diurnal patterns of ACTH and cortisol have been reported, there is data demonstrating flattened cortisol diurnal rhythm with normal morning peak and higher evening cortisol, levels ( 109 ). It has been demonstrated that there is a significant decrease in the rate of decline from acrophase (peak) to nadir for diurnal cortisol levels in fibromyalgia patients, compared to controls, while there is no change in the ACTH to cortisol ratio ( 108 ). This implies a decreased ability of the HPA axis to return to baseline after a physiologic stimulation by meals, several other activities or even pain ( 108 ). Decreased morning cortisol release and reduced frequency of cortisol pulses over 24 hours have also been reported. There is evidence to suggest that the reduced cortisol release in fibromyalgia patients is associated with depressive symptoms and experiences of childhood trauma ( 109 ). In line with studies suggesting reduced adrenal output in fibromyalgia patients, reduced cortisol secretion has been reported in response to pharmacological challenge with synthetic ACTH 1-24 and insulin tolerance test ( 109 ). Patients with fibromyalgia exhibit increased ACTH, but normal cortisol response to CRH stimulation, compared to controls. This finding suggests a sensitization of the pituitary in combination with a degree of adrenal insufficiency ( 109 ). Arginine vasopressin (AVP), an ACTH secretagogue, has been found to be more increased in response to the postural challenge test in fibromyalgia patients, compared to controls ( 110 ). Alterations in the feedback regulation of HPA axis have also been reported in fibromyalgia patients, using the overnight dexamethasone suppression test (DST). Increased rates of non-suppression following the standard (1 mg) DST have been reported in fibromyalgia patients, compared to controls, but this finding was difficult to be interpreted as it was associated with
