Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


of non-suppression following the standard (1 mg) DST have been reported in fibromyalgia patients, compared to controls, but this finding was difficult to be interpreted as it was associated with depression. Interestingly, other studies have revealed lower rates of non-suppression in fibromyalgia patients ( 111 ). There are indications that there is a dissociation between total and free cortisol levels in fibromyalgia patients, with normal salivary and plasma free cortisol despite diminished total cortisol levels. One possible explanation of this finding is a reduced concentration of the glucocorticoid binding globulin (CBG). Reduced levels of CBG have been reported in fibromyalgia patients compared to controls. It is of particular interest that chronic social stress might result in reduced CBG levels, whereas IL-6 and IL-1β that can also inhibit the production of CBG may contribute further ( 109 ). Apart from HPA axis abnormalities in fibromyalgia patients, abnormal levels of growth hormone have also been found in some, but not all reports ( 112 ). On the other hand the levels of sex hormones have not been clearly shown to differ between female fibromyalgia patients and controls ( 113 ). Autonomic Nervous System Sympathetic hyperactivity, often associated with sympathetic hypo-activity in response to stressors, or parasympathetic underactivity has been described in fibromyalgia. Attenuated sympathetic and parasympathetic activity was demonstrated in a study where fibromyalgia patients and healthy controls were assessed for 24 hours in a controlled hospital setting, including relaxation, a test with prolonged mental stress and sleep. The urinary catecholamine levels were found to be lower in fibromyalgia patients compared to controls. Patients with fibromyalgia had significantly lower adrenaline levels during the night and the second day of the study, and significantly lower dopamine levels during the first day, the night, and the second day. Furthermore, heart rate during relaxation and sleep was significantly higher in patients than in controls ( 114 ). In another study, plasma catecholamines, ACTH, and cortisol levels were reduced in 16 fibromyalgia patients compared to 16 healthy controls while performing static knee extension until exhaustion ( 115 ). Nocturnal heart rate variability indices have been shown to be significantly different in fibromyalgia women compared to healthy individuals, indicating a sympathetic predominance ( 116 ). In addition, orthostatic hypotension and increased pain in response to tilt table test have been described along with increased resting supine heart rate and decreased heart rate variability ( 117 , 118
