Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


orthostatic hypotension and increased pain in response to tilt table test have been described along with increased resting supine heart rate and decreased heart rate variability ( 117 , 118 ). IL-6 administration causes exaggerated norepinephrine responses and increases in heart rate, as well as delayed ACTH release, suggesting an incapacitated stress-regulating system ( 119 ). In-vitro testing of beta adrenergic receptor mediated cyclic AMP generation has revealed decreased responsiveness to beta-adrenergic stimulation ( 120 ). Overall, it has been suggested that sympathetic dysfunction can not only cause diffuse pain, but also contribute to other symptoms like sleep disturbances, due to sustained nocturnal sympathetic activity, and fatigue, due to deranged sympathetic response to stress ( 6 ). Psychological, Cognitive, and Behavioral Factors Pain apart from a sensory-discriminative dimension, which includes the location and the intensity of pain, has a very significant psychological component. This includes the affective dimension of pain, the emotional valance of pain in other words, as well as attention and cognitive aspects, which are based on CNS mechanisms. Emotion and selective attention can enhance pain perception, with the involvement of the descending pathways that have a facilitatory effect on the spinal cord dorsal horn neurons ( 80 ). Catastrophizing has been shown to be related to decreased pain threshold and tolerance to heat stimuli in fibromyalgia patients. However there is a subgroup of fibromyalgia patients that is very tender, despite the fact that they do not catastrophize and they have a moderate control over their pain ( 11 ). A fMRI study has shown that although depression is associated with the magnitude of neuronal activation in brain regions that process the affective-motivational dimension of pain, neither the extent of depression nor the presence of comorbid major depression modulated the sensory-discriminative aspects of pain processing in fibromyalgia patients ( 121 ). Catastrophizing, has been associated with increased activity in brain areas related to anticipation, attention and the emotional aspects of pain, as shown by fMRI in response to pressure stimuli. This study also revealed an association between catastrophizing and increased activity in the secondary somatosensory cortex, indicating that the way patients think about their pain might actually influence its sensory processing ( 80 ). Genetic Predisposition It is currently well established that familial aggregation is a characteristic of fibromyalgia. First degree relatives of fibromyalgia patients are 8.5 times more likely to have fibromyalgia than relatives of patients with
