Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


currently well established that familial aggregation is a characteristic of fibromyalgia. First degree relatives of fibromyalgia patients are 8.5 times more likely to have fibromyalgia than relatives of patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( 12 ). As with other complex and multifactorial syndromes, the occurrence of familial aggregation in the case of fibromyalgia does not necessarily imply a genetic basis. Shared environmental factors and learned patterns of behavior that may evolve within families are equally valid targets of investigation. Genome-wide association studies have shown significant differences in allele frequencies between fibromyalgia patients and controls. However many of the results are inconsistent, without being replicated. Additionally the small sample size of these studies limits the genetic variants that can be identified only to those with large effects ( 122 – 126 ). The coexistence of other comorbidities in fibromyalgia patients further obscures these results. In a large scale genome-wide association study of 26,749 individuals the overall estimated heritability of fibromyalgia was 14%. There was a significant difference between age groups, with the heritability in individuals less than 50 years of age to be 23.5%, while in those over 60 years of age it was only 7.5% ( 126 ). Although no specific candidate gene has been identified, the following genes have been associated with fibromyalgia: SEROTONIN TRANSPORTER (5-HTT) GENE An increased frequency of the S/S genotype of the 5-HTT gene has been found in fibromyalgia patients compared to controls ( 127 , 128 ). However this putative association may be limited to patients with concomitant affective disorders, since it was not confirmed in fibromyalgia patients without depression or anxiety ( 129 ). D 4 RECEPTOR GENE Polymorphisms affecting the number of repeats in the third cytoplasmic loop of the dopamine D 4 receptor gene have been shown to be significantly decreased in frequency in fibromyalgia patients ( 130 ). CATECHOL-O-METHYL TRANSFERASE (COMT) GENE The homozygous low activity (met/met) and the heterozygous low activity (val/met) COMT genotypes occur more often in fibromyalgia patients than in controls, whereas the homozygous high activity (val/val) genotype is less frequent ( 131 ). However in a meta-analysis COMT gene val(158)met polymorphism was not associated with an increased risk for fibromyalgia ( 132 ). The met/met genotype has been associated with greater fibromyalgia illness severity across the domains of pain, fatigue, sleep disturbance, and psychological distress, while fibromyalgia patients with the met/met polymorphism experienced a greater decline in
