Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


been associated with greater fibromyalgia illness severity across the domains of pain, fatigue, sleep disturbance, and psychological distress, while fibromyalgia patients with the met/met polymorphism experienced a greater decline in exhibiting a positive attitude on days when pain was elevated than did patients with the val/met or val/val genotype ( 133 ). OPIOID RECEPTOR μ 1 GENE (OPRM1) The 118G allele frequency has been described to be significantly lower in patients with fibromyalgia than in the control group ( 134 ). ADRENERGIC RECEPTOR GENES The presence fibromyalgia and its symptom severity is associated with various adrenergic receptor gene polymorphisms ( 135 ). Other genes associated with the regulation of nociceptive and analgesic neuronal pathways Specific variants of trace amine-associated receptor 1 (TAAR1) gene, regulator of G-protein signaling 4 (RGS4) gene, cannabinoid receptor 1 (CNR1) gene, and glutamate receptor, ionotrophic, AMPA 4 (GRIA4) gene, have been associated with fibromyalgia ( 123 ). External Stressors Almost all diseases are caused by a combination of genetic predisposition and the effect of environmental factors. We are now beginning to better understand the environmental factors that seem to be important in triggering fibromyalgia. Most of them act as “stressors” that when superimposed onto a deranged stress-response system can lead to the dysregulation of the nociceptive system. PERIPHERAL PAIN SYNDROME Pain due to damage or inflammation of peripheral tissues may trigger fibromyalgia. Additionally, small fiber neuropathy can be associated with fibromyalgia ( 136 – 138 ). Chronic localized – regional pain can lead to central sensitization and pain dis-inhibition, causing pain hypersensitivity and widespread pain. Systematic autoimmune diseases can be associated with fibromyalgia too. Approximately 20-25% of patients with rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus and ankylosing spondylitis, have co-morbid fibromyalgia ( 18 ). In such cases, it is important to realize that many symptoms may be attributed to fibromyalgia rather than the underlying disorder. This recognition has significant clinical implications. INFECTIONS Various infections have been linked to the development of fibromyalgia and chronic fatigue syndrome (systemic exertion intolerance disease). Epstein-Barr virus, parvovirus, Lyme disease, Q fever, HIV and hepatitis C virus (HCV), have been suggested as triggers of fibromyalgia or chronic fatigue syndrome (systemic exertion intolerance disease), but more robust evidence is needed. The role of vaccination in precipitating fibromyalgia and related syndromes is still not clear ( 139 , 140 ). PHYSICAL TRAUMA Various forms of physical trauma have been considered as culprits of triggering
