Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


vaccination in precipitating fibromyalgia and related syndromes is still not clear ( 139 , 140 ). PHYSICAL TRAUMA Various forms of physical trauma have been considered as culprits of triggering the pathogenesis of fibromyalgia. Many patients report the initiation or the exacerbation of their symptoms after a traumatic event such as whiplash injury, while increased rates of fibromyalgia have been demonstrated among patients undergoing cervical trauma during motor vehicle accidents ( 141 , 142 ). PSYCHOLOGICAL DISTRESS It has been considered that psychological factors that give rise to chronic stress may initiate the chain of events that leads to fibromyalgia. The chronic stress can be a result of the accumulation of daily stress events. Emotional stress, catastrophic events such as war, job loss, marital discord and excess family responsibilities such as caring for sick elders, have been implicated as triggers of fibromyalgia ( 143 ). However the data that supports the notion that psychological stress and distress directly causes fibromyalgia is rather weak ( 39 ). MANAGEMENT The treatment of fibromyalgia is challenging because of our limited understanding of its pathogenesis and the poor response of patients to conventional pain treatments. The aim of the therapy is to relieve pain and increase function using a multimodal individualized therapeutic strategy which, in most cases, includes pharmacologic and non-pharmacologic interventions. Current clinical-based evidence supports the use of a multimodal program that includes education, exercise, cognitive-behavioral approaches and medications. The treatment should be individualized based on the symptoms, the comorbidities and the preferences of the patient, who should be encouraged to participate in the decision-making process of selecting the optimal therapies ( 144 , 145 ). Coexisting disorders are common in fibromyalgia patients. Their identification and effective treatment can have beneficial effects on fibromyalgia symptoms. It is also important to assure that adequate adherence to both pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatment is maintained, so as to achieve the optimal benefit from these treatments. Non-Pharmacological Management PATIENT EDUCATION The first step should be the education of the patient. The patients with fibromyalgia need to understand their illness before any treatment modality is used ( 146 ). Providing a diagnosis, “labeling” the patient with fibromyalgia, may have beneficial effects. It has been shown that fewer symptoms and an improvement in health status is noted after the patients are informed of their diagnosis ( 147 , 148 ). The physician should clarify that fibromyalgia is a real
