Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


and an improvement in health status is noted after the patients are informed of their diagnosis ( 147 , 148 ). The physician should clarify that fibromyalgia is a real illness and the symptoms the patient experiences are not imaginary. The role of neurotransmitters and neuromodulators in pain perception, fatigue, abnormal sleep and mood disturbances should be discussed, so as the patient to understand the rationale of the pharmacologic therapy, especially when antidepressant drugs are used. The significance of good sleep hygiene should be reviewed and poor sleep habits should be addressed. Fibromyalgia patients who are overweight or obese should be informed for the adverse effect of increase body mass index to fibromyalgia symptoms and quality of life ( 149 ). For these patients weight reduction should be encouraged. The patient also needs to acknowledge that fibromyalgia is a chronic relapsing condition without though being life-threatening nor deforming. EXERCISE Another potent non-pharmacological treatment for fibromyalgia is exercise. It has been reported that an exercise program incorporating aerobic, strengthening, and flexibility elements can lead to greater benefits than a relaxation program. Exercise in fibromyalgia patients should have two major components: strengthening to increase soft-tissue length and joint mobility, and aerobic conditioning to increase fitness and function, reduce fibromyalgia symptoms and improve quality of life ( 144 , 150 – 153 ). Exercise should be of low impact and of sufficient intensity so as to be able to change aerobic capacity ( 28 ). Successful interventions include fast walking, biking, swimming, water aerobics, tai chi, and yoga. Land and aquatic training appears to be equally beneficial ( 154 ). An improvement in the severity of fibromyalgia symptoms has also been achieved with web-based exercise programs ( 155 ). A gradual incremental increase in physical activity should be encouraged as it is common for fibromyalgia patients to initially perceive an aggravation of their pain and fatigue at the beginning of a training program. It has been suggested that in the presence of exercise-induced pain, the intensity and duration of exercise should be reduced, while its frequency should be maintained, so as to avoid any further decrease in exercise tolerance ( 144 ). The type and intensity of the exercise program should be individualized and should be based upon patient preference and the presence of any other cardiovascular, pulmonary, or musculoskeletal comorbidities. COGNITIVE-BEHAVIORAL APPROACHES One of the goals of the management should be to
