Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


and should be based upon patient preference and the presence of any other cardiovascular, pulmonary, or musculoskeletal comorbidities. COGNITIVE-BEHAVIORAL APPROACHES One of the goals of the management should be to help patients understand the effect of thoughts, beliefs and expectations on their symptoms. This can help them to abolish the perception of helplessness and the catastrophizing thoughts that can adversely influence their condition. Patients with greater self-efficacy are more likely to have a good response to treatment programs and experience better outcomes. The beneficial effect of cognitive-behavioral therapies in fibromyalgia patients with anxiety and depression disorders is limited to a reduction of negative mood, while the rest of the patients also demonstrate a reduction of pain and fatigue. Psychologically based interventions, have been proven to be useful when they are compared to no treatment or treatment other than aerobic exercise ( 156 ). In a 2021 systematic review and meta-analysis there was high quality evidence that cognitive-behavioral therapy can significantly reduce the pain intensity in fibromyalgia patients for 3 months ( 157 ). Preliminary data from functional MRI studies suggest that cognitive-behavioral therapies have the ability to restore the alterations in the functional connectivity of brain areas responsible for pain processing observed in fibromyalgia patients ( 158 , 159 ). COMPLEMENTARY AND ALTERNATIVE APPROACHES Acupuncture Acupuncture is the insertion of needles in the human body. There are different styles of acupuncture depending on the location and the depth the needles are inserted. The inserted needles can be stimulated by heat, electrical current (electro-acupuncture), mechanical pressure (acupressure), or laser (laser acupuncture). The most common type of acupuncture involves skin penetration without stimulation (manual acupuncture). Sham or fake acupuncture is a research tool to control the effects of real acupuncture. It can involve skin contact with the needles without actual penetration or needle insertion in areas other than the ones usually targeted. In a high quality meta-analysis it was demonstrated that the effects of manual acupuncture on pain, sleep quality and global well-being did not differ significantly from the effects of sham acupuncture. On the contrary electro-acupuncture significantly reduced pain, fatigue, and stiffness, while it improved sleep quality and global well-being when compared to sham acupuncture. Additionally, electro-acupuncture significantly improved pain, stiffness, and global well-being when compared to non-acupuncture. The beneficial effects of acupuncture could be observed at 1 month after treatment, but they were not maintained at 6-7 months ( 160
