Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


and global well-being when compared to non-acupuncture. The beneficial effects of acupuncture could be observed at 1 month after treatment, but they were not maintained at 6-7 months ( 160 ). Other The effectiveness of meditative movement therapies (qigong, yoga, tai chi) on sleep and fatigue improvement and of hydrotherapy on pain reduction has been supported by some studies ( 161 , 162 ). A number of other modalities has also been utilized for the treatment of fibromyalgia including biofeedback, chiropractic therapy, massage therapy, hypnotherapy, guided imagery, electrothermal therapy, phototherapeutic therapy, music therapy, journaling / storytelling, static magnet therapy, transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation, and transcranial direct current stimulation. However there are no well-designed studies to advocate their general use ( 145 ). Pharmacologic Treatment A wide range of drugs has been used in the treatment of fibromyalgia including antidepressants, sedatives, muscle relaxants and antiepileptic drugs. The choice of medication is influenced by patient preference; prominence of particular symptoms, including fatigue, insomnia, and depression; potential adverse effects; patient tolerance of individual medications; cost and regulatory limitations on prescription choice ( 163 , 164 ). Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and opioids, although often prescribed for fibromyalgia, are not an effective form of treatment ( 39 , 165 ). However analgesics and anti-inflammatory medications can be useful in case of coexisting conditions that cause regional pain, like arthritis, which can aggravate or trigger the fibromyalgia symptoms. Regarding opioids, with the exception of tramadol, apart from not being effective for the treatment of fibromyalgia symptoms, their long-term use also curries a dose-dependent risk for serious adverse effects, including overdose, abuse, fractures, myocardial infarction and sexual dysfunction ( 166 ). Additionally opioids in fibromyalgia patients can reduce the effectiveness of psychological therapy ( 167 ), while their long-term use can cause sleep disturbances ( 168 ). Patients should be informed that for most pharmacologic therapies several weeks may be needed until they experience a benefit. Initially a single drug should be administered. However, in the case of non-responsiveness combination therapy should be considered. Since therapeutic responses are rarely durable, physicians should not be surprised when the initial efficacy of a medication is abolished. Successful treatment of fibromyalgia may require regular reassessment and possible rotation or combination of medications ( 169 ). Adequate dose prescription and patient adherence are significant for the effectiveness and tolerability of pharmacologic treatment ( 170 ). The doses of the most commonly
