Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


of medications ( 169 ). Adequate dose prescription and patient adherence are significant for the effectiveness and tolerability of pharmacologic treatment ( 170 ). The doses of the most commonly used medications with strong and moderate evidence of effectiveness are shown in Table 9. ANTIDEPRESSANTS Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs) TCAs are often used as initial treatment for fibromyalgia. Their analgesic effect is independent of their antidepressant action and is thought to be mediated by inhibition of norepinephrine (rather than serotonin) reuptake at spinal dorsal horn synapses, with secondary activity at the sodium channels. The most widely studied drugs of this group are amitriptyline and cyclobenzaprine . They should be administered at lower doses than those required for the treatment of depression, a few hours before bedtime, and their dose should be escalated very slowly. A clinically important improvement is observed in 25-45% of patients treated with TCAs compared to 20% in those taking placebo ( 171 – 175 ). However their use is limited by the fact that they are ineffective or intolerable in 60-70% of patients ( 144 ), while their efficacy may decrease over time ( 171 , 176 ). Amitriptyline is more efficient compared to the serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors duloxetine and milnacipran in reducing pain, sleep disturbance, and fatigue, without differences in acceptability, as it was shown in a systematic review and meta-analysis ( 177 ). In a 2022 network meta-analysis comparing amitriptyline, duloxetine and pregabalin it was shown that treatment with amitriptyline 25 mg was superior to duloxetine and pregabalin for the reduction of pain intensity for at least 50% ( 178 ). The combination of 20 mg of fluoxetine in the morning with 25 mg of amitriptyline at bedtime has been shown to be more effective than either medication alone ( 179 ). Side effects of amitriptyline include dry mouth, constipation, fluid retention, weight gain, difficulty in concentrating and possibly cardiotoxicity. Cyclobenzaprine has a similar tricyclic structure and presumed mode of action with amitriptyline in fibromyalgia, but is thought to have minimal antidepressant effect ( 163 ). A meta-analysis of five placebo-controlled trials has revealed improvement of the global functioning, with a similar effect size as this reported for amitriptyline. The group that received cyclobenzaprine had a significant decrease in pain for 4 weeks, compared to those treated with placebo, but the decrease in pain was not significantly different after 8 and 12 weeks. Sleep was
