Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


a significant decrease in pain for 4 weeks, compared to those treated with placebo, but the decrease in pain was not significantly different after 8 and 12 weeks. Sleep was improved at all time points in both cyclobenzaprine and placebo groups, while no effect was noted on fatigue ( 171 – 173 ). It has been demonstrated that the use of very low-dose cyclobenzaprine (1 to 4 mg at bedtime) can improve the symptoms of fibromyalgia, including pain, fatigue, and depression, compared to symptoms at baseline and to placebo. Significantly more patients who received the very low-dose of cyclobenzaprine experienced improved restorative sleep, based upon analysis of cyclic alternating pattern of sleep by electroencephalography. The increase in nights with improved sleep by this measure correlated with improvements in fatigue and depression ( 180 ). Desipramine has fewer anticholinergic and sedative effects than other TCAs, which can make it a possible alternative, although its efficacy is not well studied in fibromyalgia. Serotonin-Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors (SNRIs) SNRIs are similar to TCAs in their ability to inhibit the reuptake of both serotonin and norepinephrine, but they differ from TCAs in being devoid of significant activity at other receptor systems, resulting in diminished side effects and increased tolerance. Venlafaxine, duloxetine and milnacipran have been shown to be effective in diminishing fibromyalgia symptoms ( 147 , 181 , 182 ). These drugs can be used in fibromyalgia patients who do not respond to a trial of low-dose TCAs or who have intolerable side effects. They can also be administered as an alternative to amitriptyline for initial therapy especially for patients with significant fatigue or depression. Of these medications duloxetine and milnacipran are better studied and they are preferred to be administered to patients with fibromyalgia. There are more limited data regarding the efficacy of venlafaxine for fibromyalgia, while withdrawal symptoms if a dose is missed occur more often, because of the short half-life of this medication ( 183 ). A meta-analysis has shown that fibromyalgia patients treated with duloxetine at 60mg daily are more likely to have more than 50% reduction in pain, compared to patients taking placebo ( 184 ). However, duloxetine at 30mg daily does not significantly reduce pain ( 185 ). The efficacy of duloxetine can be maintained at 3 and 6 months of treatment ( 186 ). In a 2018 systematic review and meta-analysis it was shown that duloxetine and milnacipran
