Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


efficacy of duloxetine can be maintained at 3 and 6 months of treatment ( 186 ). In a 2018 systematic review and meta-analysis it was shown that duloxetine and milnacipran were not superior to placebo in the frequency of pain relief of at least 50%, but there was a benefit in reducing the pain at least by 30% and in the patient's global impression to be much or very much improved. Additionally, there was not a significant difference in the reduction of fatigue, in the reduction of sleep problems, nor in the improvement of health-related quality of life ( 187 ). Another meta-analysis has shown that duloxetine , pregabalin and milnacipran were superior to placebo for pain relief, while duloxetine and pregabalin were superior to milnacipran . These drugs also differed in their effects on sleep disturbances, depression and fatigue ( 188 ). A fMRI study in fibromyalgia patients treated with milnacipran and placebo demonstrated that pain reduction with milnacipran treatment was associated with decreased functional connectivity between the insular cortex and the rostral part of the anterior cingulate cortex as well as the periaqueductal gray, while these changes were not demonstrated with the placebo ( 189 ). Regarding their side effects, headaches and nausea are more common with duloxetine and milnacipran treatment, while diarrhea is more common with duloxetine treatment. Other side effects related to SNRIs include dry mouth, constipation, somnolence, dizziness and insomnia ( 188 ). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Monoamine oxidase inhibitors block the catabolism of serotonin, increasing its levels in the brain. It has been indicated that pirlindole and moclobemide have a significant beneficial effect on pain, without a significant effect on sleep nor fatigue. Their use for the treatment of fibromyalgia patients is limited ( 190 ). ANTICONVULSANTS Antiepileptic medications useful for the treatment of fibromyalgia patients include pregabalin and gabapentin . Both of these medications are structurally related to GABA and they bind with high affinity to the alpha2-delta subunit site of cellular voltage-dependent calcium channels. Although their exact mechanism of action is unknown their therapeutic effects can be mediated by blocking the release of various neurotransmitters. They can be used in cases where other medications initially administered to the fibromyalgia patients become intolerable or ineffective, or as the initial treatment for patients with significant sleep disturbance in addition to pain. Pregabalin has been reported to be efficient against pain, sleep disturbances and fatigue in
