Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


ineffective, or as the initial treatment for patients with significant sleep disturbance in addition to pain. Pregabalin has been reported to be efficient against pain, sleep disturbances and fatigue in fibromyalgia. In a recent meta-analysis a reduction of at least 50% in pain intensity was found in 22-24% of patients taking pregabalin 300-600 mg per day, approximately 9% higher compared to the placebo group. A reduction in pain intensity of at least 30% was found in 39-43% of patients on pregabalin 300-600 mg per day, compared to 28% of patients taking placebo ( 191 ). In addition to pain, pregabalin at doses 300-600 mg per day can improve sleep and patient function, as it is demonstrated in a 2018 review of clinical trials, meta-analyses, combination studies and post-hoc analyses ( 192 ). The improvement in pain and sleep can be apparent as early as 1-2 days after the onset of treatment ( 193 ). In a 2022 network meta-analysis it was shown that treatment with pregabalin 450 mg per day was superior to duloxetine 30 mg for the reduction of pain intensity of at least 30% ( 178 ). A randomized placebo-controlled neuroimaging study demonstrated that the reduction in pain intensity from pregabalin was associated with a reduction in connectivity between the posterior insula and the default mode network (DMN) and that pregabalin but not placebo can reduce the response of the DMN to experimental pain ( 194 ). It is of interest that baseline patterns of brain connectivity have been used in a machine-learning model to successfully distinguish fibromyalgia patients who have a favourable response to pain intensity after the treatment with milnacipran from those who achieve a reduction of pain intensity after the treatment with pregabalin ( 195 ). Common side effects of pregabalin include somnolence, dizziness, weight gain and peripheral oedema. Discontinuation due to side effects is approximately 10% higher in patients treated with pregabalin compared to placebo, while discontinuation due to inefficiency of treatment is 6% lower ( 191 ). The intensity of adverse effects and the frequency of discontinuation of the treatment due to adverse effects is dose dependent. It is important for pregabalin to be titrated to the maximally tolerated therapeutic dose for each patient ( 192 ). Gabapentin has been shown to be efficient in treating fibromyalgia associated pain, while it was well tolerated ( 196 ). Side effects include dizziness, sedation, lightheadedness,
