Fibromyalgia
KEYWORDS: fibromyalgia, pain, patients, pubmed, criteria, fibromyalgia patients, symptoms, syndrome, fatigue, arthritis, treatment, sleep, chronic, free, clinical


patient ( 192 ). Gabapentin has been shown to be efficient in treating fibromyalgia associated pain, while it was well tolerated ( 196 ). Side effects include dizziness, sedation, lightheadedness, and weight gain. Its efficacy and tolerability is not well studied in fibromyalgia patients, however it can be considered as an acceptable alternative in case pregabalin cannot be administered due to its cost or due to regulatory limitations ( 197 ). SEDATIVE HYPNOTIC AGENTS Zopiclone and zolpidem have been used in fibromyalgia. It has been suggested that they can improve the sleep and perhaps fatigue, without any significant effects on pain ( 144 ). Sodium oxibate , a precursor of GABA with powerful sedative properties has been shown to improve pain, fatigue and sleep architecture in fibromyalgia ( 198 ). However, in view of safety concerns the European Medicines Agency and the US Food and Drug Administration have not approved it for use in fibromyalgia patients. TRAMADOL Tramadol has multiple analgesic effects, since it inhibits norepinephrine and serotonin reuptake, and its major metabolite binds weakly to opioid μ receptors ( 144 ). The use of tramadol (with or without acetaminophen) is both effective and well tolerated for the management of pain in fibromyalgia ( 199 , 200 ). There are some concerns regarding the long-term potential of abuse of tramadol, although the risk is less than that of more potent narcotic analgesics that have also been used in fibromyalgia. Table 2. The Doses of the Most Commonly used Medications with Strong and Moderate Evidence of Effectiveness in Fibromyalgia View in own window Drugs Doses Tricyclic antidepressants Amitriptyline Start 5-10 mg at bedtime, increase up to 25-50 mg Cyclobenzaprine Start 10 mg at bedtime, increase up to 30-40mg, decrease to 5mg if 10mg too sedating Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors Duloxetine Start 10-15mg twice daily, gradually increased to 30 mg twice daily Milnacipran Start 12.5mg in the morning, gradually increase to 50mg twice daily Venlafaxine 167 mg per day Anticonvulsants Gabapentin Start 100mg at bedtime, increase to 1200-2400 mg per day Pregabalin Start 25-50mg at bedtime, increase to 300-450 mg/day Other Tramadol 37.5 mg four times daily CONCLUSION Fibromyalgia is a common disease that is often underdiagnosed. Genetic predisposition, in combination with exposure to external stressors may lead to dysregulation of the nociceptive system and to the appearance of clinical symptoms. Fibromyalgia patients do not form a homogenous group with some patients responding
