Palpitations
KEYWORDS: palpitations, patients, heart, atrial, ventricular, tachycardia, cardiac, cause, syndrome, arrhythmias, symptoms, medications, rhythm, rate, disease


Palpitations are the perception of cardiac activity. They are often described as a fluttering, racing, or skipping sensation. They are common; some patients find them unpleasant and alarming. Palpitations can occur in the absence of heart disease or can result from life-threatening heart disorders. The key to diagnosis and treatment is to “capture” the rhythm on ECG and make careful observations during the palpitations. Pathophysiology of Palpitations The mechanisms responsible for the sensation of palpitations are unknown. Ordinarily, sinus rhythm at a normal rate is not perceived, and palpitations thus usually reflect changes in cardiac rate or rhythm. In all cases, it is the abnormal movement of the heart within the chest that is felt. In cases of isolated extrasystoles, the patient may actually perceive the augmented postextrasystolic beat as the “skipped” beat rather than the premature beat itself, probably because the extrasystole blocks the next sinus beat and allows longer ventricular filling and thus a higher stroke volume. The clinical perception of cardiac phenomena is highly variable. Some patients are aware of virtually every premature ventricular beat, but others are unaware of even complex atrial or ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Awareness is heightened in patients who are sedentary, anxious, or depressed and reduced in those who are active and happy. In some cases, palpitations are perceived in the absence of any abnormal cardiac activity. Etiology of Palpitations Some patients simply have heightened awareness of normal cardiac activity, particularly when exercise, febrile illness, or anxiety increases heart rate. However, diligent evaluation for arrhythmia as the cause of palpitations is warranted. Arrhythmias range from benign to life threatening. The most common arrhythmias include Premature atrial contractions (PACs) Premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) Both of these arrhythmias usually are harmless. Other common arrhythmias include Paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT) Atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia Atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter Ventricular tachycardia Bradyarrhythmias rarely cause patients to sense palpitations, although some patients are aware of the slow rate. Causes of arrhythmias Some arrhythmias (eg, PACs, PVCs, PSVT) often occur spontaneously in patients without serious underlying disorders, but others are often caused by a serious cardiac disorder. Serious cardiac causes include myocardial ischemia or other myocardial disorders, congenital heart disease (eg, Brugada syndrome, arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, Wolf-Parkinson-White syndrome), valvular heart disease, and conduction system disturbances (eg, disturbances that cause bradycardia or heart block). Patients with orthostatic hypotension commonly sense palpitations caused by sinus tachycardia
