Palpitations
KEYWORDS: palpitations, patients, heart, atrial, ventricular, tachycardia, cardiac, cause, syndrome, arrhythmias, symptoms, medications, rhythm, rate, disease


drinks), alcohol, and tobacco use should be determined. Physical examination The general examination should note whether an anxious demeanor or psychomotor agitation is present. Vital signs are reviewed for fever, hypertension, hypotension, tachycardia, bradycardia, tachypnea, and low oxygen saturation. Orthostatic changes in blood pressure (BP) and heart rate should be measured. Examination of the head and neck should note any abnormality or dyssynchrony of the jugular pulse waves compared with the carotid pulse or auscultated heart rhythm and findings of hyperthyroidism, such as thyroid enlargement or tenderness and exophthalmos. The conjunctivae, palmar creases, and buccal mucosa should be inspected for pallor. Cardiac auscultation should note the rate and regularity of the rhythm as well as any murmurs or extra heart sounds that might indicate underlying valvular or structural heart disease. Neurologic examination should note whether resting tremors or brisk reflexes are present (suggesting excess sympathetic stimulation). An abnormal neurologic finding suggests that seizures rather than a cardiac disorder may be the cause if syncope is one of the symptoms. Red flags Certain findings suggest a more serious etiology: Light-headedness or syncope (particularly if injury occurs as a result of syncope) Chest pain Dyspnea New onset of irregularly irregular heart rhythm Heart rate >120 beats/minute or < 45 beats/minute while at rest Significant underlying heart disease Family history of recurrent syncope or sudden death Exercise-induced palpitations or, particularly, exercise-induced syncope Interpretation of findings History (see table Suggestive Historical Findings in Patients With Palpitations) and, to a lesser extent, physical examination provide clues to the diagnosis. Palpation of the arterial pulse and cardiac auscultation may reveal a rhythm disturbance. However, the examination is not always diagnostic of a specific rhythm, except when it identifies the unique irregular irregularity of some cases of rapid atrial fibrillation, the regular irregularity of coupled atrial or ventricular extrasystoles, the regular tachycardia at 150 beats/minute of PSVT, and the regular bradycardia of < 35 beats/minute of complete atrioventricular block. Careful examination of the jugular venous pulse waves simultaneously with cardiac auscultation and palpation of the carotid artery allows evaluation of atrial rhythm through jugular waves while the auscultated sounds or the pulse in the carotids are the product of ventricular contraction. Thyroid enlargement or tenderness with exophthalmos suggests thyrotoxicosis. Marked hypertension and regular tachycardia are consistent with pheochromocytoma. TABLE Suggestive Historical Findings in Patients With Palpitations Finding Possible Cause Occasional skipped beats PACs, PVCs Rapid, regular palpitations
