Fibrous Dysplasia
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, fibrous, dysplasia, fibrous dysplasia, lesions, treatment, pain, free, article pubmed, article, free article, pmc, pmc free, patients


growth hormone excess, hypercortisolism, and fibroblast growth factor-23 (FGF23)-mediated hypophosphatemia. The combination of FD and/or any of these extraskeletal features is termed McCune-Albright syndrome (MAS). PATHOGENESIS FD/MAS results from post zygotic somatic activating (gain-of-function) mutations in GNAS , which encodes the cyclic AMP pathway-associated G-protein, G s α. GNAS mutations in FD/MAS are known to occur at one of two amino acid residues: Arg201 (>95% of reported cases) [ 1 ] or Gln227 (<5%) [ 2 ]. These mutations disrupt the intrinsic GTPase activity of G s α, causing constitutive activation of adenylyl cyclase and inappropriate cyclic AMP signaling. Involvement of the skin, bone, and endocrine systems is consistent with a mutational event early in embryogenesis, occurring prior to derivation of the 3 germ layers. The phenotype in individuals with FD/MAS is thus the result of the distribution of tissues containing the GNAS mutation, and the role played by G s α signaling in those tissues. This mosaicism is reflected in the clinical features of FD/MAS, including the distinctive appearance of café-au-lait macules which follow developmental lines of Blaschko ( Fig 1A ), the patchy bone disease ( Fig 1B ) with extreme variability between individuals, and the lack of any reported cases of vertical transmission [ 3 ]. The pathogenesis of FD results from replacement of normal bone and bone marrow by fibro-osseous lesions. Histologically lesions are comprised of skeletal progenitor cells, which proliferate in the multipotent state without the expected differentiation into osteoblast, adipocyte, and hematopoietic-supporting cell lines. Skeletal progenitor cell proliferation and abnormal bone formation result in the characteristic histologic features of FD, including marrow fibrosis, abnormally-shaped trabeculae, and abnormal skeletal matrix formation [ 4 ] ( Fig 2 ). Also characteristic is skeletal undermineralization with prominent osteoid, due in part to increased production of FGF23 by FD cells [ 5 , 6 ]. Figure 1. Clinical and radiographic features of fibrous dysplasia/McCune-Albright syndrome. A. Fibrous dysplasia involving the lower extremities has resulted in a windswept deformity and impaired ambulation. Note the café-au-lait macules (white arrowheads) on the posterior trunk with characteristic jagged borders and location respecting the midline of the body. B. Technetium-99 bone scan shows patchy tracer uptake in affected areas in the skull and limbs (black arrows). C. Radiograph of a patient with axial fibrous dysplasia resulting in severe thoracolumbar scoliosis. Figure 2. Histopathologic features of fibrous dysplasia. Hematoxylin-eosin stained sections in low (A)
