Fibrous Dysplasia
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, fibrous, dysplasia, fibrous dysplasia, lesions, treatment, pain, free, article pubmed, article, free article, pmc, pmc free, patients


limbs (black arrows). C. Radiograph of a patient with axial fibrous dysplasia resulting in severe thoracolumbar scoliosis. Figure 2. Histopathologic features of fibrous dysplasia. Hematoxylin-eosin stained sections in low (A) and high power (B) show irregular, discontinuous trabeculae (b) within a fibrous stroma (ft), demonstrating the typical “discontinuous pattern. Goldner’s trichrome stained sections in low (C) and high power (D) reveal osteomalacic changes including excess osteoid (asterisks) and severe undermineralization of the dysplastic bone. CLINICAL FEATURES The clinical features in individuals with FD are variable depending upon the location and extent of skeletal lesions. The most commonly involved areas are the proximal femurs and skull base; however, any combination of affected bones is possible. FD in the appendicular skeleton often presents with fractures, limp, and/or pain. Recurrent fractures and FD expansion may lead to deformity with pain and loss of ambulation ( Fig 1A ). In the craniofacial area FD may present with facial asymmetry or a painless “lump” in the skull. Progressive expansion of craniofacial lesions may rarely lead to functional deficits including vision loss, malocclusion, and obstruction of the nasal and otic canals. Rarely, cranial base deformities may lead to serious neurologic complications [ 7 ]. Axial FD commonly leads to scoliosis, which in rare cases may be progressive and potentially fatal [ 8-10 ] ( Fig 1C ). Radiographic features of FD also vary depending upon location. In the appendicular skeleton lesions appear radiolucent with cortical thinning and a characteristic “ground glass” appearance ( Fig 3A ). Craniofacial FD may appear sclerotic on radiographs, while computed tomography shows expansile lesions with a homogeneous “ground glass” appearance ( Fig 3B ). In older individuals craniofacial FD may appear more heterogeneous with focal cystic and sclerotic areas ( Fig 3C ). Figure 3. Radiographic appearance of fibrous dysplasia (FD). A. Extensive FD involvement of the bilateral femurs in an 11-year-old girl demonstrates the characteristic radiographic findings, including the homogeneous “ground glass” appearance, diffuse cortical thinning, and coxa vara (“shepherd’s crook”) deformities (white arrows). B. Computed tomography images of craniofacial FD from a 10-year-old girl demonstrate the typical homogeneous, “ground glass” appearance. White arrows indicate the optic nerves, which are encased in FD. C. Computed tomography images from the same patient at age 19 years demonstrates typical age-related changes, including the development of mixed solid and radiolucent, cystic-appearing lesions. As is typical in FD, this patient has had persistently normal
