Fibrous Dysplasia
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, fibrous, dysplasia, fibrous dysplasia, lesions, treatment, pain, free, article pubmed, article, free article, pmc, pmc free, patients


patient at age 19 years demonstrates typical age-related changes, including the development of mixed solid and radiolucent, cystic-appearing lesions. As is typical in FD, this patient has had persistently normal vision despite encasement of the optic nerves. The natural course of FD is to progress during childhood and adolescence. Patients have grossly normal skeletal development in utero, without obvious features of bone disease at birth. Skeletal lesions appear during the first several years of life and expand during linear growth. The majority of FD lesions are apparent by age 10 years, typically with no new clinically significant lesions occurring after age 15 years [ 11 ]. FD lesions typically become less active in adulthood, which is mirrored histologically by age-dependent apoptosis of GNAS mutation-bearing cells in older patients [ 12 ], and biochemically by a progressive decline in bone turnover markers over time [ 13 ]. Malignant transformation occurs rarely in FD, consistent with the slight increased oncogenic potential associated with GNAS mutations [ 14 ]. Malignancies appear to be more common in patients exposed to ionizing radiation, including those receiving pituitary radiation for treatment of growth hormone excess [ 15 , 16 ]. Clinicians should be alerted to the possibility of malignant transformation in lesions that are rapidly expanding or show signs of cortical disruption on radiographs. Another potential complication of FD is aneurysmal bone cysts, which typically present with acute onset of expansion and localized pain. These lesions may progress rapidly, and frequently require urgent surgical treatment. EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT FD is typically diagnosed based on clinical and radiologic evaluation. All patients with FD should undergo a complete skeletal evaluation at the time of diagnosis to determine the extent of the disease. This is best accomplished with technetium-99 scintigraphy or 18 F-NaF PET/CT imaging to identify the areas of involvement, followed by radiographs of affected areas to better visualize lesions anatomically. The differential diagnosis in patients with FD/MAS is variable depending upon the clinical presentation. Patients with prominent skin findings may be misdiagnosed with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF-1), which also presents with café-au-lait macules and skeletal abnormalities. The location and distribution of skin lesions in NF-1 includes multiple smooth-bordered macules, which are generally distinct from the jagged bordered lesions in MAS that typically respect the midline of the body. Skeletal findings in NF-1 are less common and include tibial pseudoarthroses and kyphoscoliosis. There are multiple types of fibro-osseous
