Fibrous Dysplasia
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, fibrous, dysplasia, fibrous dysplasia, lesions, treatment, pain, free, article pubmed, article, free article, pmc, pmc free, patients


lesions in MAS that typically respect the midline of the body. Skeletal findings in NF-1 are less common and include tibial pseudoarthroses and kyphoscoliosis. There are multiple types of fibro-osseous lesions with similar radiographic and histologic features to FD, including ossifying fibromas, osteofibrous dysplasia, and giant cell tumors of bone [ 17 , 18 ]. These lesions are generally solitary and not associated with extraskeletal features. The utility of molecular testing for diagnostic purposes should be considered on a case-by-case basis. GNAS mutation detection is highly variable depending upon the level of mosaicism and the sensitivity of the sequencing technique [ 1 , 19 ]. In patients with monostotic FD and no additional features of MAS, mutation testing may be helpful in distinguishing FD from other fibro-osseous skeletal lesions. In patients with polyostotic disease and/or typical extraskeletal features of MAS, mutation testing is not required to establish the diagnosis, and is unlikely to inform clinical management. Management in FD is focused on treating endocrinopathies, preventing fractures, optimizing function, and treating pain. There are currently no medical therapies which are capable of altering the disease course. Orthopedic surgery is an important component of management however, practitioners should be aware that techniques used in other skeletal disorders may be unsuccessful in FD. In particular bone grafting, curettage, and external fixation are commonly used techniques that were previously considered standard in FD, but are now known to be frequently ineffective [ 20 ]. Diagnosis and treatment of scoliosis is extremely important, as it may be rapidly progressive and lead to fatal respiratory compromise. Surgical fusion has been shown to be effective in treating FD patients with progressive scoliosis [ 13 ]. Surgical management of craniofacial FD lesions should similarly be approached cautiously, as complete resection is typically not possible, and partially resected lesions frequently regrow post-operatively [ 21 ]. Optic canal involvement is common but only rarely leads to vision loss ( Fig 3 ). Conservative management of optic canal FD has been shown to be superior in asymptomatic patients; prophylactic decompression without objective evidence of optic neuropathy may lead to vision loss and is contraindicated [ 22 ]. All patients with craniofacial FD should undergo baseline and yearly ophthalmologic, otolaryngologic, and audiologic evaluations. Patients with FD involving the skull base should also be undergo screening imaging for cranial base deformities around skull age, and should be evaluated regularly for associated neurologic symptoms
