Fibrous Dysplasia
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, fibrous, dysplasia, fibrous dysplasia, lesions, treatment, pain, free, article pubmed, article, free article, pmc, pmc free, patients


evaluations. Patients with FD involving the skull base should also be undergo screening imaging for cranial base deformities around skull age, and should be evaluated regularly for associated neurologic symptoms [ 7 ]. Evaluation and treatment for extraskeletal features of MAS is an important component of clinical management in FD. Patients should undergo a staging workup at the time of diagnosis, including complete history and physical examination, review of growth curves, biochemical testing for endocrinopathies, and ultrasonography of the thyroid and testes [ 23 ]. Hyperthyroidism may have a deleterious effect on bone density, increasing the risk of skeletal deformities in patients with FD [ 7 , 10 ]. Hyperthyroidism is treated with anti-thyroidal drugs and thyroidectomy [ 23 ]. Peripheral precocious puberty results in increased linear growth and premature epiphyseal maturation, which may compromise final adult height. Symptoms are generally well-controlled with the aromatase inhibitor letrozole in girls, which may be used in combination with a testosterone blocker in boys, as well as leuprolide in children with co-existent central precocious puberty [ 24-26 ]. Growth hormone excess has been shown to increase FD expansion, particularly in the craniofacial region, leading to an increased risk of macrocephaly and vision loss [ 27 , 28 ]. This risk may be partially ameliorated with early diagnosis and treatment [ 29 ]. Therapeutic options include somatostatin analogues and pegvisomant, with total hypophysectomy generally reserved for refractory cases [ 30 ]. FGF23-mediated hypophosphatemia may have a significant impact on disease severity in FD. Although urinary phosphate wasting is common in FD patients, frank hypophosphatemia occurs less frequently due to a compensatory increase in cleavage of FGF23 into its inactive fragments [ 31 ]. The degree of FGF23 overproduction appears to be related to overall disease burden, with frank hypophosphatemia occurring more frequently in individuals with greater amounts of FD. The course of FGF23-mediated hypophosphatemia in any individual may therefore be variable, with low phosphate levels “unmasked” during periods of rapid growth or disease progression. Hypophosphatemia may also potentially normalize as growth and disease activity wanes. In addition to the classic rachitic findings of growth deceleration and long bone deformities, FD patients with uncontrolled hypophosphatemia are also at higher risk for fractures [ 32 ], deformities [ 7 , 10 ] and bone pain [ 33 ]. Treatment is similar to other disorders of FGF23 excess, and includes oral phosphorus and calcitriol. Bone pain is
