Fibrous Dysplasia
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, fibrous, dysplasia, fibrous dysplasia, lesions, treatment, pain, free, article pubmed, article, free article, pmc, pmc free, patients


deformities [ 7 , 10 ] and bone pain [ 33 ]. Treatment is similar to other disorders of FGF23 excess, and includes oral phosphorus and calcitriol. Bone pain is a common feature of FD, and pain management is an important component of clinical care. The pathophysiology of FD-related bone pain is not well-understood [ 34 ], and there does not appear to be a clear relationship between pain and overall FD burden [ 33 ]. The prevalence and severity of pain is generally greater in adults, however pain is frequently unrecognized and untreated in children [ 33 ]. In patients who present with pain, it is important to exclude acute injury, impending fracture, or other causes that may require orthopedic intervention. Patients should also be evaluated and treated for hypophosphatemia, in which pain is frequently the presenting symptom. In the absence of structural or metabolic causes, a reasonable management strategy for bone pain is to use a step-wise approach, starting with conservative measures such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications, rest, and application of heat or cold packs. In pain not responsive to conservative measures, intravenous bisphosphonates such as zoledronic acid or pamidronate may be helpful. In general, these should be administered based on symptoms rather than a set schedule, using the lowest effective dose and interval. A number of reports have investigated the efficacy of bisphosphonates, medications which increase bone density by inhibiting bone-resorbing osteoclasts, as a potential treatment for FD. Early uncontrolled case series reported subjective improvements in pain and variable effects on the radiographic appearance of FD lesions [ 35-37 ]. A placebo-controlled trial of the oral bisphosphonate alendronate showed no effects on pain or FD lesion appearance [ 38 ]. Retrospective analyses have demonstrated that bisphosphonates do not appear to prevent progression of FD lesions in children [ 13 ], and do not appear to prevent progression of spinal deformity in patients with scoliosis [ 10 ]. Concerningly, osteonecrosis of the jaw has been reported in patients with FD, with a prevalence of 5.4% in one series [ 39 ]. The role of bisphosphonates in FD management has not been fully elucidated; however, at present there is little evidence to support any effect of bisphosphonates on FD quality or lesion expansion, and the author recommends their use be limited to treatment of bone pain. FUTURE DIRECTIONS Current therapeutic options for treatment of FD are inadequate, and there
