NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, liver, agents, statins, acid, elevations, lowering, used, hypercholesterolemia, liver injury, therapy, niacin, injury, bile, drugs


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Antilipemic Agents. [Updated 2019 Jun 4]. Bookshelf URL: Antilipemic Agents Updated: June 4, 2019. OVERVIEW The lipid lowering agents are used to treat hypercholesterolemia and dyslipidemias. These agents are some of the most frequently used medications in the United States. They are typically used long term and often in combination. The major effects of the lipid lowering drugs are in the lowering of serum low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels which are believed to predispose to atherosclerosis and its complications, acute myocardial infarction, cerebrovascular ischemic stroke and peripheral vascular disease. Some of these agents also lower triglyceride levels and others may raise high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels which are believed to be protective against atherosclerosis. The medications for dyslipidemia can be grouped into five categories: fibrates, bile acid resins, hydroxymethylglutaryl co-enzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (known collectively as statins), proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) inhibitors and miscellaneous agents. The bile acid resins or sequestrants are the oldest and safest lipid lowering agents, but are less potent than other classes now available and are not always well tolerated. The bile acid sequestrants are highly positively charged and bind to the negatively charged bile acids in the intestine, inhibiting their lipid solubilizing activity and thus reducing cholesterol absorption. They also inhibit the reabsorption of bile acids (absorption of which is typically 95%) and thus cause a contraction of the bile acid pool, which leads to increased bile acid synthesis that competes with cholesterol synthesis in the liver; this may also contribute to a lowering of cholesterol. Three bile acid sequestrants are available in the United States: cholestyramine (Questran: 1973), colestipol (Colestid: 1977) and colesevelam (Welchol: 2000). These agents are also used for therapy of pruritus for their activity in lowering the “pruritogens” that accumulate in cholestatic forms of liver disease. The bile acid resins are not absorbed and have not been linked to instances of clinically apparent liver injury. Nevertheless, some bile acid resins have been found to cause mild serum aminotransferase elevations, usually within the first months of starting therapy and without symptoms or serum bilirubin or alkaline phosphatase elevations. These serum enzyme elevations have been described most frequently after cholestyramine therapy. Fibrates are fibric acid derivative agents and are used to lower plasma lipids and particularly triglyceride levels. Their mechanism of action
