NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, liver, agents, statins, acid, elevations, lowering, used, hypercholesterolemia, liver injury, therapy, niacin, injury, bile, drugs


elevations have been described most frequently after cholestyramine therapy. Fibrates are fibric acid derivative agents and are used to lower plasma lipids and particularly triglyceride levels. Their mechanism of action is believed to be via activation of the hepatic peroxisome proliferator activated receptors (PPARs), which regulate gene transcription of enzymes involved in lipid synthesis and secretion. Thre e fibrates have been available and used in the United States: gemfibrozil (Lopid: 1981), fenofibrate (Lifibra, Tricor, Antara, Lipofen, Trigilde: 1993), and clofibrate (Abitrate, Atromid-S: withdrawn 2002). All three have been associated with mild-to-moderate serum aminotransferase elevations during therapy that are typically transient, asymptomatic and may resolve even with continuation. Clofibrate has been withdrawn from use because of its side effects and lack of long term effect in reducing cardiovascular mortality. Gemfibrozil and fenofibrate remain in wide scale use. Fenofibrate has been most convincingly linked to cases of clinically apparent liver injury, which can be severe and prolonged and lead to chronic liver disease and cirrhosis. 2 LiverTox The hydroxymethylglutaryl co-enzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) are the most potent, best tolerated and most widely used cholesterol lowering agents and represent some of the most commonly prescribed medications in the United States. HMG-CoA reductase is the rate limiting step in cholesterol synthesis by the liver and inhibition of its activity causes a significant decrease in total and LDL cholesterol levels. The statins also have minor effects on triglyceride or HDL levels. Seven statins are available in the United States: lovastatin (Mevacor: 1987), pravastatin (Pravachol: 1991), simvastatin (Zocor: 1991), fluvastatin (Lescol: 1993), atorvastatin (Lipitor: 1996), rosuvastatin (Crestor: 2003) and pitavastatin (Levalo: 2009). All of the statins have been associated with mild-to-moderate serum aminotransferase elevations during therapy that are typically transient, asymptomatic and may resolve even with continuation. All have also been associated with rare instances of clinically apparent acute liver injury. Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) inhibitors are a new class of agents to treat hypercholesterolemia, which were first introduced in 2015. PCSK9 is a circulating serine protease that decreases the activity of the LDL cholesterol receptor in the liver. Blocking this receptor by circulating PCSK9 causes a decrease in the uptake of LDL cholesterol particles, resulting in an increase in LDL cholesterol in the blood. Inhibition of the activity of this protein should therefore cause a decrease in total and LDL cholesterol. Two human monoclonal antibodies to PCSK9 were developed and approved
