NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, liver, agents, statins, acid, elevations, lowering, used, hypercholesterolemia, liver injury, therapy, niacin, injury, bile, drugs


in the blood. Inhibition of the activity of this protein should therefore cause a decrease in total and LDL cholesterol. Two human monoclonal antibodies to PCSK9 were developed and approved for use in the United States in 2015: alirocumab (Praluent) and evolocumab (Repatha). Treatment with these monoclonal antibodies has been shown to decrease LDL cholesterol by 50% or more in patients who have familial hypercholesterolemia (homozygotes and heterozygotes) as well as in patients who are resistant or intolerant of standard lipid lowering medications, such as the statins. The anti-PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies are typically given subcutaneously every 2 or 4 weeks. Initially, their use was limited to patients with severe hypercholesterolemia that could not be satisfactorily controlled with statins. Recently, however, they have been shown to decrease the frequency of cardiovascular events and their use is likely to expand in the future. Neither of the monoclonal anti-PCSK9 agents have been linked to episodes of clinically apparent liver injury. The miscellaneous medications used for hypercholesterolemia or dyslipidemia include niacin, omega-3 fatty acids, ezetimibe, mipomersen and lomitapide. Niacin is a water soluble B vitamin (vitamin B3, nicotinic acid), but when used to treat dyslipidemia, it is given in doses far in excess of the minimal requirements as a vitamin. Niacin acts by reducing triglyceride synthesis via inhibition of synthesis and esterification of free fatty acids. Niacin favorably affects all aspects of dyslipidemia and is the most potent agent available for increasing HLD cholesterol levels. Niacin is available in multiple generic forms and as a combination with various statins (lovastatin: Advicor and simvastatin: Simcor). High doses of niacin are associated with a high rate of acute liver injury particularly if taken as slow release forms. Omega-3 fatty acids are essential polyunsaturated fatty acids that have several functions in normal metabolism counter as nutritional supplements in support of general health. High doses of omega-3 fatty acids can lower serum triglyceride levels and several formulations have been developed as prescription medications for therapy of severe hypertriglyceridemia including omega-3 acid ethyl esters , icosapent ethyl (Vascepa, 2012) and omega-3 carboxylic acids (Epanova, 2014). These agents have occasionally been associated with transient and mild serum enzyme elevations during treatment but have not been linked to cases of clinically apparent liver injury. Ezetimibe (Zetia: 1999) is a lipid lowering agent that acts by inhibition of cholesterol absorption, via binding to the intestinal protein known as Neiman Pick C1 like
