NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, liver, agents, statins, acid, elevations, lowering, used, hypercholesterolemia, liver injury, therapy, niacin, injury, bile, drugs


apparent liver injury. Ezetimibe (Zetia: 1999) is a lipid lowering agent that acts by inhibition of cholesterol absorption, via binding to the intestinal protein known as Neiman Pick C1 like protein 1, the major cholesterol transport protein in the intestine. Inhibition of cholesterol absorption is usually followed by an increase in hepatic cholesterol synthesis, which can be blocked by HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. For these reasons, ezetimibe is usually used in conjunction with statins and it is often used in fixed combinations (Vytorin). Ezetimibe has been linked to a low Antilipemic Agents 3 rate of mild-to-moderate serum aminotransferase elevations during therapy and rare instances of clinically apparent acute liver injury. Two new agents became available in 2013 for therapy of homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, a rare but severe inborn error of metabolism marked by high levels of low density lipoprotein cholesterol and childhood onset of complications of atherosclerosis. Mipomersen (Kynamro) is an antisense oligonucleotide that binds to the mRNA that encodes apolipoprotein B. Lomitapide (Juxtapid) is an inhibitor of microsomal triglyceride transport protein which blocks production of apolipoprotein B containing lipoproteins in the liver and intestine. Both agents can lower serum cholesterol levels by 25% to 30% in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia; however, both are hepatotoxic and their use is restricted. Both mipomersen and lomitapide can cause serum aminotransferase elevations and hepatic steatosis and thus may induce or exacerbate nonalcoholic fatty liver. The following medications for dyslipidemia and hypercholesterolemia are discussed individually in LiverTox: • Bile Acid Resins/Sequestrants ⚬ Cholestyramine ⚬ Colesevelam ⚬ Colestipol • Fibrates ⚬ Clofibrate ⚬ Fenofibrate ⚬ Gemfibrozil • Monoclonal Antibodies ⚬ Alirocumab (Anti-PCSK9) ⚬ Evinacumab (Anti-ANGPTL3) ⚬ Evolocumab (Anti-PCSK9) • Niacin (Nicotinic Acid) • Omega-3 Fatty Acids, ⚬ Icosapent Ethyl ⚬ Omega-3 Acid Ethyl Esters ⚬ Omega-3 Carboxylic Acids • Statins ⚬ Atorvastatin ⚬ Fluvastatin ⚬ Lovastatin ⚬ Pitavastatin ⚬ Pravastatin ⚬ Rosuvastatin ⚬ Simvastatin • Miscellaneous ⚬ Bempedoic Acid ⚬ Ezetimibe ⚬ Inclisiran ⚬ Lomitapide ⚬ Mipomersen ⚬ Resmetirom SELECTED REFERENCES References updated: 04 June 2019 4 LiverTox Zimmerman HJ. Drugs used in the treatment of hypercholesterolemia and hyperlipidemia. In, Zimmerman HJ. Hepatotoxicity: the adverse effects of drugs and other chemicals on the liver. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1999, pp. 660-2. (Expert review of hepatotoxicity published in 1999; mentions that the statins have dose related hepatic effects in guinea pigs and rabbits and transient elevations in aminotransferases occur in 1-5% of humans treated; several cases of
