W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


W J G World Journal of Gastroenterology Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2025 July 21; 31(27): 107138 DOI: ISSN 1007-9327 (print) ISSN 2219-2840 (online) EXPERT CONSENSUS First regional consensus on the management of Helicobacter pylori infection in the Middle East Ala I Sharara, Fahad I Alsohaibani, Ahmad Alsaegh, Khalid Al Ejji, Sameer Al Awadhi, Peter Malfertheiner, Sherif A Karam, Talal Al-Taweel Beirut 961, Lebanon and hepatology Center, Riyadh 11239, Saudi Arabia Unsolicited article; Externally peer reviewed. Ahmad Alsaegh, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Salmaniya Medical Complex, Manama 2904, Bahrain Peer-review model: Single blind Khalid Al Ejji, Ambulatory Care Center, Hamad Medical Corporation, Doha 3050, Qatar Peer-review report’s classification A, Grade A, Grade A, Grade B, Emirates Grade B 81377, Germany B, Grade B, Grade B, Grade B Creativity or Innovation: Grade A, Grade B, Grade B, Grade B, Grade Governorate 12511, Egypt B, Grade B B, Grade B Co-first authors: Ala I Sharara and Fahad I Alsohaibani. P-Reviewer: Babani SA; Wang Z; Ying GH Revised: April 16, 2025 Abstract Processing time: 127 Days and 8.9 Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori), a widespread gram-negative bacterium that colo- Hours nizes the stomach, causes chronic gastritis, which may progress to peptic ulcer, mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma, and gastric cancer. H. pylori infection affects over 50% of people in developing countries and 10%-20% in developed countries. The Kyoto consensus classifies H. pylori gastritis as an infectious disease in the International Classification of Disease 11th Revision. The Maastricht/Florence consensus recommends treatment for all infected indi- viduals, introducing a shift in the management strategies. The prevalence of H. pylori infection is high in the Middle East, with infection rates of 40%-70% and WJG 1 July 21, 2025 Volume 31 Issue 27 Sharara AI et al. Middle East H. pylori management regional consensus 85%-90% being reported among children and adults, respectively. The increasing resistance to antibiotics, including macrolides and fluoroquinolones, is a major challenge in the management of H. pylori. Clarithromycin resistance, which is associated with reduced effectiveness of standard triple therapy regimens, leading to higher rates of treatment failure, impacts the eradication rates. This emphasizes the need for routine antibiotic suscept- ibility testing at the national level, the use of alternative therapies, including new molecular methods, and antibiotic stewardship. An online panel of experts from the Middle East, along with an international expert, developed this consensus to provide comprehensive guidelines on the diagnosis, treatment, prevention, and
