W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


the 11th Revision of the International Classification of Disease, The prevalence of H. pylori infection in the Middle East, with infection rates ranging from 40%-70% among children and 85%-90% among adults, is consistent with that observed in other developing regions. However, the specific prevalence rates in the region are highly variable, with prevalence rates of 55.5%, 52.0%-68.3%, 40.0%-70.0%, 40.9%, and 64.3%-78.4% being reported in Bahrain, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) , respectively. Notably, the prevalence rate of H. pylori infection is 42.6% among patients with dyspepsia in Kuwait (Figure 1). Studies conducted in countries such as Egypt, Iran, Oman, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, and Yemen have revealed that the infection rates among patients with gastritis and peptic ulcer are similar to those reported in Europe, the United States, and Africa. The growing resistance of H. pylori to standard antibiotic therapies, such as clarithromycin, metronidazole, and levofloxacin, presents a significant challenge. This resistance is particularly problematic in the Middle East where treatment regimens often vary and consensus on management strategies is lacking. This consensus report aimed to offer optimal recommendations for the diagnosis and clinical management of H. pylori infection in the Middle East. By comparing the existing international guidelines with the specific needs and practices in the region, the expert panel aimed to identify commonalities and differences and to develop regionally tailored recommendations that can address the unique challenges faced in this context. Notably, gastroenterology experts from Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Kuwait, Qatar, Bahrain, and Lebanon came together to develop comprehensive practice guidelines to address this issue, given the lack of consensus on H. pylori management in WJG 2 July 21, 2025 Volume 31 Issue 27 Sharara AI et al. Middle East H. pylori management regional consensus Figure 1 Regional prevalence of Helicobacter pylori (studies are highly variable in terms of diagnostic method use, setting and study population, and year of study). various Middle Eastern countries. These experts aimed to establish clear and actionable recommendations tailored to the unique context of the Middle East through the thorough review of local, regional, and global literature on the management of H. pylori infection. These guidelines aimed to address the requirement for improved antibiotic susceptibility testing, enhanced antibiotic stewardship, and careful selection of first line and rescue therapies. Notably, the consensus emphasized the importance of appropriate diagnostic testing and effective prevention strategies for the complications associated with H.
