W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


stewardship, and careful selection of first line and rescue therapies. Notably, the consensus emphasized the importance of appropriate diagnostic testing and effective prevention strategies for the complications associated with H. pylori infection, including gastric cancer. Furthermore, these guidelines highlighted the importance of conducting further studies on the impact of H. pylori infection and its treatment on the gut microbiota, acknowledging the emerging role of the gut microbiome in overall health. A panel of experts was set up to address the key clinical issues and challenges affecting the management of H. pylori infection in the Middle East. Their collective expertise, along with the regional insights in the context of currently available evidence, were instrumental in the formulation of these guidelines. This consensus report provided comprehensive regional guidelines for the management of H. pylori infection and its clinical manifestations in the Middle East in addition to encouraging further research in this field. The topics were selected in accordance with the Maastricht VI consensus report to address the indications, associations, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of gastric cancer as well as the association between H. pylori infection and the gut microbiota. WJG 3 July 21, 2025 Volume 31 Issue 27 Sharara AI et al. Middle East H. pylori management regional consensus METHODOLOGY Selection of the consensus group A panel comprising six experts from Bahrain, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, UAE, and Kuwait and an international expert from Germany was formed. This group provided a broad representation of perspectives and expertise. Panel These experts are considered key opinion leaders in the field across the Middle East. A senior European professor with expertise in consensus methodology moderated the process to ensure neutrality and methodological rigor. Identification of areas of clinical importance The identification of the key clinical areas requiring consensus was the initial step of developing these guidelines. A systematic review of the literature was conducted to gather the latest and most robust evidence supporting each statement. Draft statements were formulated based on the findings of these reviews. A comprehensive literature search was conducted to guide the development of the guidelines with all authors actively engaging in writing and reviewing the content. International guidelines and consensus documents were reviewed to help fill the gaps in local and regional data. This approach ensured the formulation of evidence-based guidelines tailored to meet the specific needs and practices of the region. Delphi questionnaire and voting process The Delphi method is
