W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation categories are defined as follows: Quality of evidence: (1) High quality: Further research is very unlikely to alter confidence in the estimated effect; (2) Moderate quality: Further research may significantly impact confidence in the estimate and could change it; (3) Low quality: Further research is likely to have a significant effect on confidence in the estimate and is likely to change it; and (4) Very low quality: The estimate of effect is highly uncertain. Strength of recommendation: (1) Strong recommendation: A strong endorsement either for or against the use of an intervention; and (2) Weak recommendation: A weak endorsement either for or against the use of an intervention. Table 1 summarizes all the statements, indicating their corresponding levels of evidence and strengths of recom- mendation. WJG 4 July 21, 2025 Volume 31 Issue 27 Sharara AI et al. Middle East H. pylori management regional consensus Table 1 Statements, level of evidence, and strength of recommendation1 Grading Agreement Chapter 1: Clinical indications and relevance of H. pylori Statement 1 A1 100 H. pylori is a gastric pathogen. H. pylori gastritis is an infectious disease Statement 2 A1 100 Test-and-treat is an appropriate strategy for uninvestigated dyspepsia Statement 3 A1 100 Overall, H. pylori eradication is superior to placebo or acid suppressive therapy for long-term relief of dyspepsia; however, the magnitude of the benefit is small Statement 4 B2 85.71 The diagnosis of H. pylori gastritis must be excluded before a reliable diagnosis of functional dyspepsia is made Statement 5 A1 100 The use of aspirin or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug increases the risk of peptic ulcer disease and its complications in patients with H. pylori infection Statement 6 A1 85.71 H. pylori testing and treatment are advisable for high-risk patients receiving long-term aspirin therapy. H. pylori testing and treatment are advisable for treatment-naïve patients commencing long-term nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug therapy. Those at high-risk may require additional PPI therapy Statement 7 A1 85.71 Long-term treatment with PPIs alters the topography of H. pylori gastritis Statement 8 A1 100 H. pylori eradication should be considered in long-term PPI users Statement 9 A1 100 H. pylori eradication is recommended for the management of patients with unexplained IDA, ITP, and vitamin B12 deficiency Statement 10 A1 85.71 H. pylori eradication is the first-line treatment for localized low-grade gastric MALT lymphoma. H. pylori eradication therapy is also recommended for cases without evidence
