W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


B12 deficiency Statement 10 A1 85.71 H. pylori eradication is the first-line treatment for localized low-grade gastric MALT lymphoma. H. pylori eradication therapy is also recommended for cases without evidence of H. pylori infection and may provide benefit even to those with advanced- stage disease Statement 11 D2 100 H. pylori has been positively and negatively associated with extra-gastroduodenal disorders. However, the causality of these associations has not been definitively proven Chapter 2: Diagnostic approaches and methods for H. pylori Statement 1 A1 100 Non-invasive testing for H. pylori infection is recommended in patients with dyspepsia aged < 60 years with no specific risk and no alarming symptoms Statement 2 B1 100 Upper GI endoscopy is required in patients with dyspepsia aged > 60 years. Functional serology may be considered a complementary diagnostic tool Statement 3 A2 100 When endoscopy is indicated it should: (1) Apply the best available technologies; and (2) Include biopsy sampling. Biopsy samples obtained in accordance with validated protocols should result in both etiological diagnosis and gastritis staging. Any focal lesions should be additionally sampled Statement 4 A1 100 UBT remains an important tool for diagnosing H. pylori infection before and after eradication therapy. Citric acid is an essential component of the protocol Statement 5 A1 100 Monoclonal stool antigen test is an appropriate test before and after H. pylori treatment Statement 6 A1 100 Molecular methods (in particular, real time-PCR, whole genome sequencing, and digital PCR) facilitate the detection of H. pylori mutations associated with resistance to clarithromycin and levofloxacin Statement 7 A1 100 No antibiotics or bismuth should be used in the short-term post-eradication (4-6 weeks) follow-up period to permit optimum testing for H. pylori. PPIs should be stopped 14 days before testing Statement 8 A1 85.71 Tests for serum IgG antibodies against H. pylori can serve as a screening test in specific clinical situations Statement 9 A1 85.71 The histological assessment of atrophy should result in conclusive gastritis staging (OLGA/OLGIM), which consistently ranks the patient-specific cancer risk. Histological staging makes intestinal metaplasia subtyping clinically redundant Chapter 3: Treatment strategies for H. pylori Statement 1 C1 100 Antimicrobial resistance deserves high consideration in the Middle East owing to frequent improper and overuse of antibiotics Statement 2 B1 100 Single capsule bismuth quadruple therapy is the first-line treatment recommended in areas with high (> 15%) or unknown clarithromycin resistance if individual suscept- ibility testing is
