W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


treatment with clarithromycin-containing triple therapy or non-BQTs and second-line treatment with single capsule BQT. BQT with different antibiotics, rifabutin-containing rescue therapy, or high-dose PPI-amoxicillin dual therapy should be considered in areas with high fluoroquinolone resistance Statement 15 B2 100 Single capsule BQT is recommended after the failure of first-line treatment with clarithromycin-containing triple therapy or non-BQTs, and second-line treatment with fluoroquinolone-containing therapy. High-dose PPI-amoxicillin dual or a rifabutin- containing regimen could be considered if single capsule BQT is not available Statement 16 C2 85.71 The use of clarithromycin-based triple or quadruple therapy is recommended after the failure of first-line treatment with single capsule BQT and second-line treatment with fluoroquinolone-containing therapy only in areas with low clarithromycin resistance (< 15%). Otherwise, high-dose PPI-amoxicillin dual therapy, a rifabutin-containing regimen, or a combination of bismuth with different antibiotics should be used Statement 17 C2 85.71 Single capsule BQT should be recommended as the first-line treatment in patients with proven penicillin allergy. Single capsule BQT (if not previously prescribed) and fluoroquinolone-containing regimens may represent empirical second-line rescue options Chapter 4: H. pylori and gastric cancer prevention Statement 1 A1 85.71 H. pylori infection plays an etiological role in a subset of adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal junction zone Statement 2 A1 100 H. pylori eradication: (1) Eliminates the active inflammatory response in chronic active non-atrophic gastritis; and (2) Prevents further progression to atrophy and intestinal metaplasia in chronic non-atrophic gastritis Statement 3 A1 100 H. pylori eradication may reverse gastric atrophy and intestinal metaplasia to some extent. It may also halt the progression of chronic atrophic gastritis to neoplastic lesions in a subset of patients Statement 4 A1 85.71 H. pylori eradication is most effective in preventing gastric cancer before the development of severe chronic atrophic gastritis Statement 5 A1 85.71 Diagnostic tests used to screen H. pylori infection for the purpose of gastric cancer prevention should preferably be non-invasive Statement 6 A1 85.71 Compared with younger individuals, asymptomatic individuals aged > 60 years are considered vulnerable and at increased risk of gastric cancer WJG 6 July 21, 2025 Volume 31 Issue 27 Sharara AI et al. Middle East H. pylori management regional consensus Statement 7 B1 100 Follow-up at regular intervals and the use of endoscopic biopsy protocols is mandatory in patients with severe atrophic gastritis (OLGA 3/4) Statement 8 A1 100 Eradication of H. pylori is mandatory to reduce the risk of metachronous
