W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


of endoscopic biopsy protocols is mandatory in patients with severe atrophic gastritis (OLGA 3/4) Statement 8 A1 100 Eradication of H. pylori is mandatory to reduce the risk of metachronous gastric cancer after curative endoscopic resection or gastric subtotal resection of early gastric cancer Chapter 5: H. pylori drug resistance and the gut microbiota Statement 1 B2 85.71 Antibiotic treatment for other reasons might select resistant H. pylori strains 1Proton pump inhibitor, bismuth, tetracycline, and metronidazole prescribed separately is not a Food and Drug Administration-approved treatment regimen. However, Pylera®, a combination product containing bismuth subcitrate, tetracycline, and metronidazole combined with a proton pump inhibitor for 10 days, is a Food and Drug Administration-approved treatment regimen. H. pylori: Helicobacter pylori; PPI: Proton pump inhibitor; IDA: Iron deficiency anemia; ITP: Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura; MALT: Mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue; OLGA/OLGIM: Operative link on gastric atrophy/operative link on gastric intestinal metaplasia; BQT: Bismuth quadruple therapy; GI: Gastrointestinal; UBT: Urea breath test. CHAPTER 1: CLINICAL INDICATIONS AND ASSOCIATIONS OF H. PYLORI Statement 1: H. pylori is a bacterium that colonizes the stomach and can cause disease. Gastritis due to H. pylori is classified as an infection Agreement 100% grade: A1: The presence of H. pylori, a gastric pathogen that causes gastritis, in the gastric mucosa triggers chronic active inflammation characterized by the infiltration of neutrophils and mononuclear cells, an effect that is absent in the absence of the bacteria. According to Koch’s postulates, H. pylori was identified earlier as a pathogen. Eradication of H. pylori may restore the gastric mucosa, preventing the progression of mucosal lesions, alleviating symptoms, reducing the incidence of complications, and lowering the risk of gastric cancer, even in asymptomatic individuals. However, chronic changes and intestinal metaplasia (IM) may persist despite successful eradication. Notably, a type of gastritis similar to H. pylori-induced gastritis that occurs without H. pylori infection Statement 2: The test-and-treat approach is suitable for managing uninvestigated dyspepsia Agreement 100% grade: A1: The test-and-treat strategy is an effective approach for managing uninvestigated dyspepsia, especially in younger patients without alarming symptoms. This approach involves non-invasive testing of patients with dyspeptic symptoms, followed by treatment if H. pylori infection is confirmed. This approach differs from the more invasive scope-and-treat strategy requiring upper gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopy. The test-and-treat approach can resolve the majority of peptic ulcer cases and help prevent the development of serious complications associated with H. pylori gastritis, even in patients without
