W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


(GI) endoscopy. The test-and-treat approach can resolve the majority of peptic ulcer cases and help prevent the development of serious complications associated with H. pylori gastritis, even in patients without visible mucosal lesions. Previous studies have indicated that the efficacy of this strategy is equivalent to that of empirical proton pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy for short-term symptom relief, with H. pylori eradication offering long-lasting benefits. Endoscopy offers a slight improvement in detection rates; however, its high cost limits its use to patients aged ≥ 60 years, those with alarming features, and those unresponsive to initial treatments. Statement 3: Although H. pylori eradication provides better long-term dyspepsia relief than placebo or acid Agreement 100% grade: A1: Compared with placebo or acid-suppressive therapy, H. pylori eradication offers greater long-term relief for dyspepsia; however, the benefit is modest. Trials excluding H. pylori eradication have not been conducted since the adoption of the test-and-treat strategy for dyspepsia in the early 2000s owing to ethical concerns. A recent meta-analysis involving 29 randomized control trials revealed that eradication therapy is more effective for symptom cure and improvement in patients positive for H. pylori with functional dyspepsia (FD). The test-and-treat approach was ranked as the most effective strategy for managing uninvestigated dyspepsia, especially for patients positive for H. pylori, in a network meta-analysis. However, long-term studies have reported mixed results, with some studies reporting no significant difference between those treated for H. pylori and controls in terms of dyspepsia symptoms. PPIs are more effective than H. pylori eradication in the management of dyspepsia linked to acid reflux, indicating that the benefits of eradication are more specific to non-reflux-related dyspepsia. Statement 4: FD should only be diagnosed after confirming the absence of H. pylori gastritis Agreement 85.71% grade: B2: The diagnosis of H. pylori gastritis must be excluded before diagnosing FD, particularly in patients with dyspepsia who are H. pylori-positive with no other endoscopic pathologies. Sustained symptom relief following eradication therapy indicates that symptoms were attributable to H. pylori gastritis[28-31]. However, persistence of symptoms despite successful eradication indicates the diagnosis of FD. Thus, the diagnosis of H. pylori gastritis must be ruled out before diagnosing FD. Some patients attribute their symptoms to stress rather than H. pylori. This makes treatment outcomes less predictable, thereby complicating the decision-making process regarding treatment guidelines. WJG 7 July 21, 2025 Volume 31 Issue 27 Sharara AI et al. Middle East H. pylori
