W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


makes treatment outcomes less predictable, thereby complicating the decision-making process regarding treatment guidelines. WJG 7 July 21, 2025 Volume 31 Issue 27 Sharara AI et al. Middle East H. pylori management regional consensus Statement 5: Aspirin and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug use elevates the risk of peptic ulcers and related complications in individuals infected with H. pylori Agreement 100% grade: A1: The use of aspirin or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) elevates the risk of peptic ulcers and related complications in individuals with H. pylori. NSAIDs, aspirin, and H. pylori independently increase the risk of gastric and duodenal ulcers and related complications. The majority of studies indicate that compared with individuals not infected with H. pylori, patients with H. pylori infection who receive NSAIDs, cyclo- oxygenase-2 inhibitors, or aspirin are at a higher risk of developing peptic ulcer and its complications. A combined or greater risk is observed in cases with concomitant H. pylori infection and NSAID or aspirin use, exceeding the risk of each factor alone[34-36]. Statement 6: Patients who are high-risk on long-term aspirin and patients who are treatment-naïve starting long-term NSAIDs should undergo H. pylori testing and treatment with PPIs added for high-risk cases Agreement 85.71% grade: A1: H. pylori testing and treatment are recommended in patients who are high risk commencing long-term NSAID therapy or already receiving long-term aspirin. Clinical trials primarily focus on H. pylori eradication in patients who used NSAIDs, showing reduced peptic ulcer risk for those commencing NSAID therapy. However, the advantage is less certain for individuals on long-term NSAID therapy. Patients who are high-risk, partic- ularly those with a history of peptic ulcer, may benefit from PPI therapy to further reduce the risk of recurrence while taking NSAIDs. In patients using low-dose aspirin, H. pylori infection raises the risk of peptic ulcers and bleeding; eradication of the infection can help decrease this risk. However, the widespread use of low-dose aspirin makes universal H. pylori testing and treatment less practical. Therefore, H. pylori testing and treatment should be considered for patients who are high-risk receiving aspirin, especially those with a history of peptic ulcer, along with additional PPI therapy[34- 36]. Age > 65 years, a history of peptic ulcers, use of high-dose NSAIDs, and concomitant use of antiplatelets, antico- agulants, or high dose corticosteroids are risk factors for ulcer-related complications. Statement 7: Prolonged PPI use modifies the distribution of H. pylori-associated gastritis Agreement 85.71% grade:
