W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


use of antiplatelets, antico- agulants, or high dose corticosteroids are risk factors for ulcer-related complications. Statement 7: Prolonged PPI use modifies the distribution of H. pylori-associated gastritis Agreement 85.71% grade: A1: Long-term administration of PPIs reduces gastric acid secretion, leading to hypergast- rinemia. The prevalence of enterochromaffin-like cell hyperplasia in the gastric corpus in patients who are positive for H. pylori is 2.5-fold higher than that in patients without infection who use PPIs. Prolonged PPI therapy results in gastritis extending from the antrum to the corpus, significantly increasing the risk of body atrophic gastritis, with an odds ratio of 11.5 for atrophy in patients who are positive for H. pylori. The mean corpus atrophy score in patients who are positive for H. pylori on PPIs is two to three times higher than that in those in individuals without infection. These changes, mainly observed in Europe and the United States, indicate the increased risk of gastric cancer in patients who are positive for H. pylori owing to the association with gastric mucosal atrophy. Confounding factors, such as the reason for PPI use and unknown H. pylori status, complicate these findings. PPI-induced hypochlorhydria or parietal cell loss from conditions such as H. pylori-related atrophy may also alter the non-H. pylori gastric microbiome. Further studies must aim to understand how the microbiome changes and gastritis topography contributes to gastric mucosal atrophy and preneoplasia in patients with persistent H. pylori infection. Statement 8: Eradication of H. pylori should be considered in patients on prolonged PPI therapy Agreement 100% grade: A1: Eradicating H. pylori in long-term PPI users is advantageous as the prolonged administration of PPI can shift the antrum-predominant pattern of gastritis to a corpus-predominant pattern and elevated gastrin levels. H. pylori eradication improves gastritis in these patients[38-40,42-44] and is particularly recommended for those receiving long-term PPI therapy owing to the potential risks associated with persistent infection. Notably, H. pylori eradication does not appear to increase the risk of esophageal adenocarcinoma. Statement 9: Treating H. pylori is recommended in cases of unexplained iron deficiency anemia, idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura, and vitamin B12 deficiency Agreement 100% grade: A1: Eradicating H. pylori is recommended for managing patients with unexplained iron deficiency anemia (IDA), idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), and vitamin B12 deficiency. Eradication can improve IDA and ITP; however, results may vary. Eradication enhances anemia and hemoglobin levels in patients with IDA, especially in those with moderate to
