W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


and vitamin B12 deficiency. Eradication can improve IDA and ITP; however, results may vary. Eradication enhances anemia and hemoglobin levels in patients with IDA, especially in those with moderate to severe anemia, with significant benefits being observed in children. The guidelines recommend H. pylori eradication for the management of recurrent unexplained IDA, especially when upper GI and colonoscopy results are normal[46-48]. Eradication is beneficial in adults with ITP as it can increase the platelet counts and response rates, particularly in those with atrophic gastritis and high H. pylori prevalence. Evidence for improving vitamin B12 deficiency is less clear; however, addressing H. pylori infection can be beneficial for these conditions[49-51]. Statement 10: First-line therapy for localized low-grade gastric MALT lymphoma is H. pylori eradication, which may also benefit patients without detectable infection and some with advanced disease Agreement 85.71% grade: A1: H. pylori eradication, the first-line treatment and standard of care for localized low-grade gastric MALT lymphoma, yields long-term remission rates of 70%-80%. However, patients with the 11:18 translo- cation may not respond to this therapy. Endoscopic follow-up conducted every 3-6 months enables the monitoring of disease regression and screening for premalignant conditions due to the heightened risk of gastric adenocarcinoma. The WJG 8 July 21, 2025 Volume 31 Issue 27 Sharara AI et al. Middle East H. pylori management regional consensus latest guidelines from the European Society for Medical Oncology advise comprehensive H. pylori testing using serological, stool, and breath tests if the tissue results are negative. Ensuring eradication and considering second-line treatments is necessary if the infection persists. Complete endoscopic remission may require > 1 year; nevertheless, up to 30% of H. pylori-negative cases may achieve a complete response rate following eradication therapy. The European Society for Medical Oncology guidelines recommend evaluating regression 3-6 months post-eradication before exploring treatments such as radiation or chemotherapy. These guidelines now recommend H. pylori eradication for all cases of gastric marginal zone B-cell lymphoma irrespective of the stage, owing to occasional responses in dissem- inated cases. In contrast to gastric adenocarcinoma, specific H. pylori gene products have not been linked to the development of lymphoma. Statement 11: H. pylori has been linked to both increased and decreased risks of extra-gastroduodenal conditions, though causality remains unproven Agreement 100% grade: D2: H. pylori has been linked to various extra-gastroduodenal conditions, including cardio- vascular diseases, metabolic disorders, neurodegenerative diseases as well as conditions such as migraine,
