W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


remains unproven Agreement 100% grade: D2: H. pylori has been linked to various extra-gastroduodenal conditions, including cardio- vascular diseases, metabolic disorders, neurodegenerative diseases as well as conditions such as migraine, chronic urticaria, and rosacea. Nevertheless, definitive causal relationships remain unclear, with conflicting evidence[58-60]. The decreasing H. pylori infection rates in some countries have been associated with the increased incidences of asthma, atopic conditions, obesity, and inflammatory bowel disease. Although H. pylori has been linked to several diseases, its role in these conditions is not fully established. Thus, eradication based solely on these associations is not justified[58,61-63]. CHAPTER 2: DIAGNOSTIC APPROACHES AND METHODS FOR H. PYLORI Statement 1: Patients with dyspepsia under 60 without alarm symptoms should undergo non-invasive H. pylori testing Agreement 100% grade: A1: Non-invasive testing for H. pylori infection is recommended for patients with dyspepsia aged < 60 years without alarming symptoms or specific risks. The 13C urea breath test (UBT), stool antigen test (SAT), and serological test for IgG antibodies against H. pylori exhibit high sensitivity and specificity. However, IgG antibody tests cannot differentiate between current and past infections, making them unsuitable for verifying eradication success. These tests have certain limitations, particularly in areas with low H. pylori prevalence where false positives are more likely. Thus, confirmatory tests are necessary. Although the typical age threshold for such testing is 60 years, it can vary between 45 and 55 years depending on regional differences in the risk of gastric cancer. Statement 2: Patients with dyspepsia over 60 require upper GI endoscopy with functional serology as an optional adjunct Agreement 100% grade: B1: An upper GI endoscopy is crucial for accurate diagnosis in patients with dyspepsia aged > 60 years. Functional serology can offer complementary insights. New-onset dyspepsia in younger individuals warrants attention despite the global decline in gastric cancer rates as 5% of cases of gastric cancer occur in patients aged < 40 years . The age group of 50-60 years presents a gray zone influenced by regional differences where gastric cancer can develop earlier. Thus, a comprehensive evaluation considering the regional risk factors for gastric cancer is essential for patients in this age bracket. The likelihood of gastric cancer increases with age; consequently, upper GI endoscopy is particularly recommended for patients aged > 60 years, especially in the presence of additional risk factors. Functional serology, including tests for pepsinogen I–II and gastrin 17, yields valuable supplementary diagnostic
