W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


particularly recommended for patients aged > 60 years, especially in the presence of additional risk factors. Functional serology, including tests for pepsinogen I–II and gastrin 17, yields valuable supplementary diagnostic information. With a 96% accuracy rate and a 98% negative predictive value, functional serology facilitates highly accurate non-invasive assessment of corpus atrophy. Statement 3: Endoscopy should: (1) Use optimal technologies; and (2) Include biopsies following validated protocols for diagnosis and staging, with additional sampling of focal lesions Agreement 100% grade: A2: Endoscopy, when indicated, should be performed utilizing the best available technologies and include biopsy sampling per the Sydney protocol. Gastric endoscopy, coupled with biopsy sampling, is the most accurate, sensitive, and specific diagnostic method for patients with alarming gastroesophageal symptoms[67-69]. High- resolution endoscopy, enhanced by virtual chromoendoscopy after proper training, provides a reliable assessment of inflammatory lesions, mucosal atrophy, and focal abnormalities, thereby enhancing diagnostic performance[70-74]. including mucosal washing, sufficient inspection time, endoscopic evaluation of all gastric mucosa regions (oxyntic vs antral), and photographic documentation. At least two samples must be acquired from both functional compartments, antrum and fundus, and submitted in separate containers. A biopsy from the incisura further completes the biopsy collection for histological staging of gastritis, including the operative link on gastric atrophy (OLGA) and operative link on gastric IM (OLGIM). Additional tissue samples should be taken to evaluate H. pylori status. Focal lesions that may contain dysplasia should be identified and submitted separately for microscopic analysis and potential endoscopic submucosal dissection. Statement 4: The UBT is key for H. pylori diagnosis pretreatment and post-treatment with citric acid as part of the protocol Agreement 100% grade: A1: Notably, 13C-UBT is widely utilized for diagnosing H. pylori infection and verifying its WJG 9 July 21, 2025 Volume 31 Issue 27 Sharara AI et al. Middle East H. pylori management regional consensus eradication post-treatment. Given its ability to enhance accuracy and sensitivity, citric acid (CA) plays a crucial role in this procedure. CA delays gastric emptying, optimizes the distribution of the substrate within the stomach, and prolongs its interaction with H. pylori urease. CA is preferred over other test meals such as semi-liquid or semi-fatty acid meals, apple juice, or orange juice as it is more cost-effective and palatable when sweeteners are added. Incor- porating CA into the test meal significantly enhances the sensitivity of the 13C-UBT, especially in populations with gastric atrophy, making it a preferred choice
