W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


palatable when sweeteners are added. Incor- porating CA into the test meal significantly enhances the sensitivity of the 13C-UBT, especially in populations with gastric atrophy, making it a preferred choice for reliable diagnostic outcomes[79-82]. Statement 5: The monoclonal SAT is reliable for H. pylori detection before and after therapy Agreement 100% grade: A1: The detection of H. pylori-specific antigens in stool samples represents a convenient and non- invasive diagnostic method suitable for pretreatment and post-treatment evaluation. H. pylori releases bacterial antigens into the stool. Thus, SAT can effectively detect active infection[80-82]. Polyclonal antisera was used in these tests originally; however, modern SATs utilizing monoclonal antibodies have exhibited superior performance in comparative studies. SATs are available as enzyme immunoassay kits for laboratory use and rapid immunochromatography tests for near-patient testing. Laboratory-based enzyme immunoassays have generally outperformed rapid tests in comparative studies, and the sensitivity can vary widely among different rapid test options; nevertheless, rapid teristics of each test when interpreting the results. Statement 6: Molecular techniques (e.g., reverse transcription PCR, whole genome sequencing, digital PCR) help identify H. pylori resistance mutations to clarithromycin and levofloxacin Agreement: 100% grade: A1: Over the past decades the prevalence of antibiotic resistance in H. pylori has gradually increased. Traditional phenotypical methods such as agar dilution testing, which require bacterial culture, remain the gold standard for antibiotic susceptibility testing but are time-consuming and labor-intensive. Molecular techniques such as real-time PCR using gastric tissue or stool, whole genome sequencing, and digital PCR meet the requirement for faster and culture-independent methods. These methods can detect specific mutations associated with antibiotic resistance, particularly clarithromycin and levofloxacin resistance. Clarithromycin resistance, primarily caused by mutations in the 23S rRNA gene (e.g. A2143G, A2142G, and A2142C), is well-characterized and can be accurately predicted using PCR or sequencing. Levofloxacin resistance is predominantly caused by mutations in the gyrA gene; thus, PCR-based tests are effective in predicting quinolone resistance. However, predicting resistance to metro- nidazole is more complex due to multiple genetic factors affecting susceptibility, including mutations in the rdxA gene. Molecular methods exhibit varying accuracy in predicting resistance across different antibiotics, with promising advancements being observed in whole genome sequencing to improve prediction accuracy, especially for antibiotics such as metronidazole and amoxicillin where multiple genetic mutations may contribute to resistance[91-94]. Statement 7: Antibiotics, bismuth, and PPIs should be stopped for 4-6 weeks and 14 days, respectively, before post- eradication testing Agreement 100% grade:
