W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


(per- protocol) in Saudi Arabia. Availability issues may limit access to BQT in some regions despite its efficacy. Non-bismuth concomitant quadruple therapy can be considered if BQT is unavailable; however, its eradication rates are lower, and it may contribute to broader AMR. This therapy yields better outcomes than sequential therapy, partic- ularly in patients with clarithromycin resistance, but increases exposure to unnecessary antibiotics. Concomitant therapy is less effective in areas with high dual resistance to clarithromycin and metronidazole with a success rate of 79%[104, 107]. Alternative treatment strategies such as high-dose PPI-amoxicillin dual therapy or rifabutin triple therapy may be considered; however, the use of rifabutin must be studied further owing to its potential adverse effects[108-110]. BQT remains the preferred option where available, owing to its high success rates and fewer issues with resistance. Single-capsule BQT, which simplifies BQT into a single capsule, further reduces the pill burden, thereby increasing settings, with a favorable safety profile. The effectiveness of single-capsule BQT as both a first-line and rescue therapy was shown to be optimal in the largest study conducted to date. Compliance was closely associated with treatment effectiveness. Thus, local success rates must be regularly monitored to ensure the selected treatment remains effective. Data regarding H. pylori resistance to antimicrobials in most Middle Eastern countries is lacking. Thus, regular monitoring of local success rates and resistance patterns plays a crucial role in ensuring the continued effectiveness of the selected treatment (Figure 2). Statement 3: Single-capsule BQT should be administered for 10 days Agreement 100% grade: D2: The optimal duration for administering single-capsule BQT is typically 10 days. Traditional bismuth regimens are generally administered for 14 days; however, single capsule formulations yield effective results with a 10-day course. The latest clinical guideline from the American College of Gastroenterology on the treatment of H. pylori infection indicates that the administration of single-capsule BQT for 10 days is an FDA-approved treatment regimen. Notably, prescribing the individual components of BQT separately is not approved by the FDA. Thus, the treatment duration must be extended to 14 days to improve adherence and ensure effectiveness when using separate components. Bismuth salts, which act locally against H. pylori through complex and unclear mechanisms, are not associated with resistance. Bismuth subcitrate and bismuth subsalicylate are commercially available; however, head-to-head comparisons are lacking. Both agents have been deemed safe and were well-tolerated in various studies. Shorter duration of BQT administration,
