W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


Bismuth subcitrate and bismuth subsalicylate are commercially available; however, head-to-head comparisons are lacking. Both agents have been deemed safe and were well-tolerated in various studies. Shorter duration of BQT administration, such as 1-7 days, is less effective than the 10-14-day regimen. The longer duration regimen consistently achieves eradication rates of ≥ 85%, even in areas with high metronidazole resistance. Notably, recent analyses have reinforced the effectiveness of a 10-day course with a single-capsule formulation, demonstrating eradication rates of approximately 90% for first-line therapy and slightly lower rates for subsequent lines of treatment despite the presence of metronidazole resistance. The Hp-EuReg study, which included over 2000 cases across several European countries, reported eradication rates of > 90% and excellent compliance for a 10-day single-capsule regimen. The ideal duration for BQT remains debatable; however, current evidence suggests that a 10-day treatment regimen with a single-capsule BQT is effective and well- tolerated in diverse settings. Nevertheless, extending the duration to 14 days may improve compliance and treatment WJG 11 July 21, 2025 Volume 31 Issue 27 Sharara AI et al. Middle East H. pylori management regional consensus Figure 2 Algorithm for empirical Helicobacter pylori eradication if individual antibiotic susceptibility testing is not available. 1High-dose proton pump inhibitor (PPI) or potassium-competitive acid blocker (vonoprazan where available) plus amoxicillin may be another option. 2Bismuth Quadruple Single Capsule. Bismuth Quadruple Single Capsule: PPI; bismuth, tetracycline; and metronidazole. Clarithromycin triple: PPI; clarithromycin; and amoxicillin. It is only used if proven effective locally or if clarithromycin sensitivity is known. Non-bismuth quadruple (concomitant): PPI; clarithromycin; amoxicillin; and metronidazole. Levofloxacin quadruple: PPI; levofloxacin; amoxicillin; and bismuth. Levofloxacin triple: The same but without bismuth. In cases of high fluoroquinolone resistance (> 15%), the combination of bismuth with other antibiotics, high-dose PPI-amoxicillin dual, or rifabutin, may be an option. BQT: Bismuth quadruple therapy; HDDT: High dose dual therapy; P-CAB: Potassium-competitive acid blockers; PPI: Proton pump inhibitor. outcomes when using separate components of BQT. Statement 4: Concomitant therapy (PPI + amoxicillin + clarithromycin + metronidazole) is preferred over sequential/hybrid regimens due to better efficacy and simplicity Agreement 85.71% grade: B1: Concomitant therapy comprising a PPI, amoxicillin, clarithromycin, and metronidazole administered concurrently should be the preferred choice when selecting a non-BQT treatment strategy. This recommendation stems from its simplicity and proven reproducible effectiveness compared with that of sequential and hybrid therapies. Non-BQTs, including sequential, concomitant, and hybrid approaches, are effective against WJG 12 July
