W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


recommendation stems from its simplicity and proven reproducible effectiveness compared with that of sequential and hybrid therapies. Non-BQTs, including sequential, concomitant, and hybrid approaches, are effective against WJG 12 July 21, 2025 Volume 31 Issue 27 Sharara AI et al. Middle East H. pylori management regional consensus susceptible H. pylori strains. Moreover, they are particularly beneficial in settings with high rates of clarithromycin resistance (> 15%) or unknown susceptibility profiles. However, non-BQTs involve the administration of at least one unnecessary antibiotic, which can be avoided if susceptibility profiles are known. Given that they require switching medications midway through the treatment course, sequential and hybrid therapies are more complex and increase the risk of prescription errors, thereby reducing patient compliance. Concomitant therapy has superior efficacy over sequential therapy, with an odds ratio of 1.49 (95%CI: 1.21–1.85) and consistently higher eradication rates[117-122]. Concomitant therapy for 14 days yields eradication rates of > 90%, comparable with those of BQT. In contrast sequential and hybrid therapies often result in lower success rates and increased complexity. Concomitant therapy may be associated with a slightly higher rate of adverse events than hybrid therapy; however, these differences are generally minor (risk difference = 0.03; 95%CI: 0.00–0.06)[123,125-127]. Thus, given its higher efficacy, fewer complications, and simpler regimen, concomitant therapy is recommended over sequential and hybrid therapies in the absence of BQT. Statement 5: Non-BQT should be administered for 14 days Agreement 100% grade: D2: Given its proven effectiveness in eradicating H. pylori, the recommended duration for non- BQT concomitant therapy is 14 days. This duration ensures extended antibiotic exposure, which is crucial for overcoming bacterial resistance and achieving high eradication rates. Notably, 14-day regimens yield success rates of > 90%, indicating their reliability in treating infections, especially in regions with high resistance. Despite potential concerns regarding patient compliance, this timeframe balances efficacy and safety, thereby offering optimal treatment outcomes. Statement 6: In areas with low clarithromycin resistance, single-capsule BQT or clarithromycin triple therapy may be first-line if locally effective Agreement 100% grade: B1: First-line empirical treatment in regions with low clarithromycin resistance may comprise single-capsule BQT or clarithromycin-containing triple therapy, provided these regimens are locally effective. Single- capsule BQT offers a high eradication rate with a simplified dosing regimen. Clarithromycin-containing triple therapy is effective in regions with minimal clarithromycin resistance. As emphasized in the Practice Guidelines for the Mana- gement of H. pylori Infection by the Saudi H.
