W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


regimen. Clarithromycin-containing triple therapy is effective in regions with minimal clarithromycin resistance. As emphasized in the Practice Guidelines for the Mana- gement of H. pylori Infection by the Saudi H. pylori Working Group, a study conducted in Saudi Arabia reported an eradication rate of 87.8% following the administration of single-capsule BQT with PPI for 10 days in a per-protocol analysis. Previous treatment failure had no effect on treatment response. This rate is higher than that obtained with standard triple therapy in Saudi Arabia. The eradication rates achieved with single-capsule BQT in Kuwait were higher than those achieved with clarithromycin. Another study conducted in the UAE in 2019 assessed different treatment regimens among 239 patients. Single-capsule BQT achieved the highest overall eradication rate of 88% in this study, with other regimens, such as sequential therapy (62%), amoxicillin + clarithromycin + PPI (60%), and amoxicillin + levofloxacin + PPI (48%), demonstrating lower success rates. Statement 7: PPI-clarithromycin-based triple therapy should be administered for 14 days Agreement 100% grade: B1: Recent evaluations and expert consensus have consistently recommended continuing PPI- clarithromycin-based triple therapy, including amoxicillin or metronidazole, for 14 days. Although extensive audits, such as the Hp-EuReg analysis of over 21000 first-line H. pylori treatments across 27 European countries, have highlighted that the regimen comprising PPI, amoxicillin, and clarithromycin (PAC) was predominant, its usage has decreased over time. Notably, 14-day, 10-day, and 7-day courses of PAC resulted in modified intention-to-treat eradication rates of 86.2%, 82.7%, and 84.2%, respectively. Further updates involving nearly 30000 treatments confirmed these findings, revealing that the 14-day PAC course achieved an eradication rate of 87%, while shorter durations yielded lower rates. The efficacy of the 14-day regimen remains robust unless local clarithromycin resistance rates surpass 15%; shorter courses may be less effective in such cases. Saudi Arabia has a high resistance rate; thus, regimens of shorter duration are not recommended as standard therapy. PPI–amoxicillin–metronidazole-based regimens have shown variable eradication rates depending on metronidazole resistance, with 14-day schedules demonstrating some ability to counteract resistance effects. In summary, the 14-day duration is optimal for achieving high eradication rates with PPI-clarithromycin-based triple therapy, unless local data suggest otherwise. Statement 8: High-dose twice-daily PPI boosts triple therapy efficacy, though its benefit in quadruple therapy is uncertain Agreement 100% grade: C2: The effectiveness of triple therapy for H. pylori can be enhanced by administering PPIs twice daily as higher doses of these antisecretory drugs
