W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


therapy is uncertain Agreement 100% grade: C2: The effectiveness of triple therapy for H. pylori can be enhanced by administering PPIs twice daily as higher doses of these antisecretory drugs significantly increase the intragastric pH. This change in pH improves the delivery, stability, and activity of antibiotics such as clarithromycin, amoxicillin, and metronidazole, making H. pylori more susceptible to treatment. This effect is particularly notable in extensive metabolizers of PPIs. High-dose PPI, defined as 40 mg of omeprazole or an equivalent dosage of another PPI, has been documented to improve the eradication rates in triple therapies. However, whether high-dose PPI has a similar impact on the efficacy of quadruple therapies remains unclear. Higher PPI doses may enhance the effectiveness of non-BQT (concomitant or sequential therapy) and triple therapy plus bismuth; however, the evidence is inconsistent and limited. The eradication efficacy of quadruple therapies such as BQT remains largely unaffected by variations in the PPI dosage. Nonetheless, the administration of large doses of PPIs such as lansoprazole or esomeprazole can maintain adequate gastric acid suppression, which is crucial for achieving effective eradication with amoxicillin alone[108,130-132]. WJG 13 July 21, 2025 Volume 31 Issue 27 Sharara AI et al. Middle East H. pylori management regional consensus Statement 9: Potassium-competitive acid blocker-based regimens: (1) Match or exceed PPI triple therapy efficacy for first/second-line treatment; and (2) Perform better against resistant infections Agreement 85.71% grade: B2: Potassium-competitive acid blockers (P-CABs) offer distinct advantages over conventional PPI-based therapies for H. pylori eradication. The superior acid suppression achieved by P-CABs is particularly beneficial as achieving a pH of 6-7 over a 24-h period is crucial for optimal bacterial eradication. Traditional PPIs often fail to maintain this level of acid suppression throughout the day. In contrast P-CABs provide a more consistent and effective inhibition of gastric acid production. This characteristic makes P-CABs, such as vonoprazan and its successors in development, more effective in combination therapies, particularly in patients with AMR. Vonoprazan-based triple therapies outperform standard PPI-based regimens in first-line and second-line treatment settings with notably high success rates being observed even in patients with clarithromycin-resistant H. pylori strains . Vonoprazan-based therapies were superior to PPI-based therapies in a previous meta-analysis with a more recent review confirming these findings, thereby highlighting its enhanced efficacy in resistant cases. Exploratory trials have demonstrated promising results for dual therapy involving vonoprazan and amoxicillin with eradication rates of 63%-100% and particularly high
