W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


findings, thereby highlighting its enhanced efficacy in resistant cases. Exploratory trials have demonstrated promising results for dual therapy involving vonoprazan and amoxicillin with eradication rates of 63%-100% and particularly high success rates in clarithromycin-resistant infections. Initial studies were primarily conducted in East Asia; however, research in North American and European contexts has also yielded results comparable with those of PPI-based treatments. Nevertheless, the eradication rate did not exceed 90% . Ongoing research into dose adjustments and comparative trials in Western countries will further refine these therapies, thereby simplifying treatment regimens and addressing global resistance challenges effectively. Statement 10: Empiric second-line and rescue therapies should be tailored to local resistance patterns and eradication success rates Agreement 85.71% grade: D2: Treatment decisions must be based on local resistance patterns and eradication rates to optimize the success of second line and rescue therapies for H. pylori. Antimicrobial susceptibility testing guides therapy by tailoring antibiotic use and minimizing the risk of developing further resistance. However, traditional susceptibility tests necessitate invasive endoscopy, which is costly and not universally accessible. Furthermore, culturing H. pylori is often challenging, with success rates dropping to < 80% in patients who failed to respond to previous eradication attempts. Molecular tests offer a solution by detecting resistance without the requirement for endoscopy. Commercially available kits can identify resistance to clarithromycin and levofloxacin. Nevertheless, current evidence comparing tailored therapy to empirical approaches remains inconclusive despite these advances. A clear benefit of suscept- ibility-guided therapy over empirical methods has not been consistently demonstrated with similar eradication rates being observed in patients who failed to respond to multiple treatment strategies. The Hp-EuReg study revealed that empirical second-line therapies can achieve eradication rates of > 90%, highlighting the importance of monitoring local resistance patterns and eradication success. Empirical therapies guided by local data will remain a practical approach until susceptibility testing becomes more routine and accessible. Further studies must be conducted to further evaluate the efficacy of tailored therapies compared with that of empirical treatments for H. pylori eradication. Statement 11: After BQT failure fluoroquinolone-containing quadruple (or triple) therapy or high-dose PPI-amoxicillin therapy may be recommended Agreement 100% grade: C2: A clarithromycin-based regimen may not be feasible in clarithromycin high resistance areas. High-dose PPI-amoxicillin dual therapy can be an effective alternative, given its ability to overcome resistance against clarithromycin and metronidazole. Compared with lower dosing schedules, high-dose PPI-amoxicillin therapy achieves higher eradication rates, especially when
