W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


therapy can be an effective alternative, given its ability to overcome resistance against clarithromycin and metronidazole. Compared with lower dosing schedules, high-dose PPI-amoxicillin therapy achieves higher eradication rates, especially when administered four times daily. Alternatives such as rifabutin combined with other antibiotics may also be considered in regions with high fluoroquinolone resistance. Thus, the selection of an appropriate therapy based on local resistance patterns and treatment history is crucial for optimizing eradication outcomes. Statement 12: Post PPI-clarithromycin-amoxicillin triple therapy failure, single-capsule BQT or high-dose PPI- amoxicillin are recommended Agreement 100% grade: C2: Clarithromycin resistance must be considered in cases wherein PPI-clarithromycin- amoxicillin triple therapy fails; thus, repeating the same regimen would be unsuitable. A pooled analysis of eight studies revealed that repeated clarithromycin-based treatments yielded a low eradication rate of just 46%. Single-capsule BQT or high-dose PPI-amoxicillin dual therapy should be recommended as second-line options if a first-line eradication attempt with this triple therapy fails. Singlecapsule BQT yielded a significant eradication rate of 90.9% and 94.6% in the clarithromycin-resistant and clarith- romycin-susceptible groups, respectively (per protocol arm). The efficacy of BQT as a second-line treatment is well- documented, especially in areas with high clarithromycin resistance. Notably, optimal eradication rates (≥ 90%) were obtained with BQT in the Hp-EuReg study, making it a pivotal choice for second-line therapy, particularly in regions with high resistance to quinolones and clarithromycin. High-dose PPI-amoxicillin dual therapy, with an eradication rate of 81%, may be an effective second-line option. This regimen can overcome resistance to clarithromycin and metronidazole. Therapies involving vonoprazan, a P-CAB, in combination with amoxicillin have also exhibited high efficacy. WJG 14 July 21, 2025 Volume 31 Issue 27 Sharara AI et al. Middle East H. pylori management regional consensus The use of PPI-clarithromycin-amoxicillin triple therapy as a second-line treatment is not advisable in Qatar, given the high rates of clarithromycin resistance. Treatment decisions must be made based on local resistance patterns to ensure efficacy. Regimens containing fluoroquinolone while effective are associated with serious adverse effects. These regimens must be used only if the benefits outweigh the risks, particularly in areas with significant resistance. Therefore, BQT and high-dose PPI-amoxicillin dual therapy are preferred as second-line options, tailored to the resistance profile in the region. In summary single-capsule BQT and high-dose PPI-amoxicillin dual therapy are recommended second-line treatments following the failure of PPI-clarithromycin-amoxicillin triple therapy. The choice of treatment is guided by local resistance patterns
