W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


In summary single-capsule BQT and high-dose PPI-amoxicillin dual therapy are recommended second-line treatments following the failure of PPI-clarithromycin-amoxicillin triple therapy. The choice of treatment is guided by local resistance patterns and eradication rates. Statement 13: After non-BQT failure, options include single-capsule BQT, fluoroquinolone therapy, or possibly high- dose PPI-amoxicillin Agreement 85.71% grade: C2: Finding an effective empirical rescue treatment becomes challenging following the failure of a non-BQT, which often includes a PPI, amoxicillin, clarithromycin, and a nitroimidazole. The treatment options are limited since these patients have already received key antibiotics such as clarithromycin, amoxicillin, and metronidazole. Single-capsule BQT is an effective second-line treatment. A triple or quadruple regimen containing fluoroquinolone may also be effective with eradication rates exceeding 90% in some studies[158-162]. However, fluoroquinolone resistance can significantly reduce its efficacy. The addition of bismuth to a levofloxacin-based regimen can enhance effectiveness in such cases. A quadruple regimen of PPI, amoxicillin, levofloxacin, and bismuth has exhibited promising results in overcoming levofloxacin resistance. High-dose PPI-amoxicillin dual therapy, which has demonstrated an eradication rate of 81% as a second-line or further-line treatment, is another viable option comparable with other recommended therapies. Statement 14: Fluoroquinolone regimens follow clarithromycin/non-BQT and BQT failures, except in high-resistance areas where rifabutin or modified BQT are preferred Agreement 100% grade: B2: After the failure of first-line treatment with clarithromycin-containing triple therapy or non- BQT regimens and second-line treatment with single-capsule BQT, a fluoroquinolone-containing regimen is recommended. For third-line therapy, a combination of a PPI, amoxicillin, and a third-generation quinolone, such as levofloxacin or moxifloxacin, is suggested by the Maastricht V Consensus Conference and has exhibited efficacy in several previous studies[153,163-165]. The addition of bismuth to this levofloxacin-containing regimen may further enhance its efficacy, especially in cases with levofloxacin resistance. However, the increase in the resistance to quinolones owing to specific gyrA mutations has impacted the success of these therapies in recent years. Novel treatment strategies such as sitafloxacin, a fourth-generation quinolone, and vonoprazan, a novel P-CAB, have been introduced to improve the effectiveness of quinolone-based treatments. In regions with high fluoroquinolone resistance, al- ternative strategies should be considered, including BQT with different antibiotics, rifabutin-based rescue therapy, or high-dose PPI-amoxicillin dual therapy. Statement 15: Following failure of first-line clarithromycin-based triple or non-BQT, and second-line fluoroquinolone- containing regimens, single-capsule BQT is the preferred option. If unavailable, alternatives include high-dose PPI- amoxicillin dual therapy or a rifabutin-based regimen Agreement 100% grade: B2:
