W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


or non-BQT, and second-line fluoroquinolone- containing regimens, single-capsule BQT is the preferred option. If unavailable, alternatives include high-dose PPI- amoxicillin dual therapy or a rifabutin-based regimen Agreement 100% grade: B2: Single capsule BQT is recommended following the failure of first-line treatment with clarith- romycin-containing triple therapy or non-BQT regimens as well as second-line treatment with fluoroquinolone- containing therapy. Clarithromycin and fluoroquinolone resistance have no effect on BQT, which includes bismuth, metronidazole, and tetracycline combined with a PPI. Thus, it is a successful third-line eradication option. Alternative strategies such as high-dose PPI-amoxicillin dual therapy or a rifabutin-containing regimen should be considered effective rescue therapies if single-capsule BQT is unavailable[169-172]. Statement 16: Clarithromycin-based triple or quadruple therapy is recommended only in regions with low clarithromycin resistance (< 15%) following failure of first-line single-capsule BQT and second-line fluoroquinolone regimens. In areas with higher resistance, preferred options include high-dose PPI-amoxicillin dual therapy, a rifabutin-based regimen, or bismuth combined with alternative antibiotics Agreement 85.71% grade: C2: Clarithromycin-based triple or quadruple therapy is recommended after the failure of first- line treatment with single capsule BQT and second-line treatment with fluoroquinolone-containing therapy only in areas with low clarithromycin resistance (< 15%). The use of clarithromycin may be effective as it has not been used previously in these areas. However, alternative treatment strategies, such as high-dose PPI-amoxicillin dual therapy, a rifabutin- containing regimen, or a combination of bismuth with previously unused antibiotics, must be considered in areas with high clarithromycin resistance. Given the low resistance rates and optimized treatment duration, rifabutin- based therapies are particularly effective. Cumulative effectiveness with several consecutive rescue therapies, including rifabutin as a third-line option, can achieve eradication rates of nearly 100%. WJG 15 July 21, 2025 Volume 31 Issue 27 Sharara AI et al. Middle East H. pylori management regional consensus Statement 17: For patients allergic to penicillin, the recommended first-line is single-capsule BQT; second-line options include repeat BQT or fluoroquinolone regimens Agreement 85.71% grade: C2: The eradication of H. pylori infection in patients with penicillin allergy, which affects about 5%-10% of individuals, poses a significant challenge. True immune-mediated hypersensitivity is not observed in most patients with a penicillin allergy. Negative allergy test results can facilitate the use of penicillin in these patients to receive the most effective therapy. Single-capsule BQT is recommended as a first-line treatment in such cases, especially in regions with high clarithromycin and/or metronidazole resistance. BQT should be considered
