W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


to receive the most effective therapy. Single-capsule BQT is recommended as a first-line treatment in such cases, especially in regions with high clarithromycin and/or metronidazole resistance. BQT should be considered an empirical second- line option along with fluoroquinolone-containing regimens despite the risk of acquired resistance to quinolones, if it has not been used previously. For patients with a penicillin allergy who fail to respond to initial PPI-clarithromycin- metronidazole triple therapy, adding bismuth to the treatment regimen or increasing antisecretory potency using a P- CAB such as vonoprazan are viable strategies. Similarly, substituting amoxicillin with cefuroxime or using regimens containing sitafloxacin or semi-synthetic tetracyclines such as doxycycline or minocycline can enhance eradication success . CHAPTER 4: H. PYLORI AND GASTRIC CANCER PREVENTION Statement 1: H. pylori contributes to some gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinomas Agreement 85.71% grade: A1: H. pylori infection plays a significant etiological role in a subset of adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal junction (GOJ) zone. The International Agency of Research on Cancer classification deemed GOJ cancer a separate entity; however, it is now considered a type of esophageal cancer. The term cardia gastric cancer is no longer used owing to the limited presence of genuine cardiac mucosa, which if present is confined to a very narrow area within 5 mm from the GOJ. Cardia gastric cancer is currently classified as GOJ cancer or as proximal gastric cancer depending on the location of the tumor relative to the GOJ. H. pylori is a key risk factor for proximal gastric cancer; consistent with the concept of GOJ zone cancer, which comprises adenocarcinomas occurring 1 cm proximally and 1 cm distally to the GOJ, clarifying the pathogenic mechanisms in this region. The two primary factors contributing to GOJ adenocarcinoma are inflammation caused by gastroduodenal reflux and inflammation of junctional gastric mucosa, including cardiac-type mucosa, largely due to H. pylori infection[181-184]. Statement 2: Eradication: (1) Resolves inflammation in active non-atrophic gastritis; and (2) Halts progression to atrophy/IM Agreement 100% grade: A1: The eradication of H. pylori results in the removal of the active inflammatory response characterized by neutrophil infiltration in chronic non-atrophic gastritis, particularly in the antrum and corpus. Eradication therapy reverses neutrophil infiltration within a period of 2 weeks; however, mild chronic inflammation with lymphocyte infiltration may persist for up to a year. The eradication of H. pylori is closely associated with the normalization of the surface epithelium and a reduction in inflammatory activity.
