W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


lymphocyte infiltration may persist for up to a year. The eradication of H. pylori is closely associated with the normalization of the surface epithelium and a reduction in inflammatory activity. Successful eradication restores gastric mucosa to its normal state in most patients with non-atrophic gastritis. Furthermore, it prevents further progression to atrophy and IM. Notably, studies such as those conducted on the Matsu Islands demonstrated that the eradication of H. pylori can significantly reduce the risk of progression to gastric atrophy with a notable prevention rate of 77.2%. Statement 3: Eradication may partially reverse atrophy/metaplasia and stop progression to neoplasia in some cases Agreement 100% grade: A1: The eradication of H. pylori has a beneficial effect on gastric atrophy and to a lesser extent on IM. Eradication therapy significantly reduces gastric atrophy; however, its effect on reversing IM is more limited and gradual. Improvements in gastric mucosal atrophy can be observed from 6 months to 6 years after treatment, with partial reversal of IM being observed in specific regions such as the lesser curvature of the corpus. Long-term follow-up studies, including large population-based trials and mass eradication programs, have revealed a decrease in the presence and severity of atrophic gastritis and IM over time. The eradication of H. pylori has been associated with a notable reduction in the risk of gastric cancer, with reductions of 53% and 50%-52% being observed in patients undergoing mass eradication and patients with early-stage gastric cancer or premalignant lesions, respectively. These findings highlight the potential of H. pylori eradication in some patients to halt the pro- gression of chronic atrophic gastritis to neoplastic lesions. Statement 4: Cancer prevention is most effective when eradication occurs before severe atrophy develops Agreement 85.71% grade: A1: The eradication of H. pylori is most effective in preventing gastric cancer when performed before the onset of severe chronic atrophic gastritis. Patients without any precancerous lesions such as gastric atrophy, IM, or dysplasia at the beginning of the study did not develop gastric cancer over a 7.5-year follow-up period following H. pylori eradication in a previous study. This led to the development of the concept of a “point of no return”, suggesting that eradication may become less effective following the appearance of advanced precancerous changes. Recent analyses using machine learning have identified age and presence of IM as key factors predicting the risk of cancer post-eradication. Severe atrophy identified through endoscopic criteria
