W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


advanced precancerous changes. Recent analyses using machine learning have identified age and presence of IM as key factors predicting the risk of cancer post-eradication. Severe atrophy identified through endoscopic criteria has also been associated with an increased risk of cancer post-eradication. Preneoplastic changes may be partially reversed following the eradication of H. pylori; however, severe atrophic gastritis does not progress to cancer in the majority of patients. Nonetheless, endoscopic monitoring is crucial in this population, and future advances in molecular gastritis characterization may WJG 16 July 21, 2025 Volume 31 Issue 27 Sharara AI et al. Middle East H. pylori management regional consensus enhance the ability to identify patients who would benefit from eradication and those who remain at risk. Statement 5: Non-invasive tests are preferred for H. pylori screening in cancer prevention Agreement 85.71% grade: A1: The use of non-invasive diagnostic methods is generally preferred while screening for H. pylori infection in the context of gastric cancer prevention. Tests such as UBT offer accuracy comparable with that of invasive procedures requiring endoscopy and biopsy. Although more precise invasive tests are more expensive. Furthermore, they are associated with potential risks related to the endoscopic procedure. Consequently, the use of non-invasive options is favored during the mass screening of individuals at average risk. Individuals at a higher risk of developing gastric cancer, such as those with a family history of the disease, should undergo endoscopic examination to rule out pre-existing gastric cancer or precancerous lesions. Statement 6: Asymptomatic patients over 60 have higher gastric cancer risks than younger individuals Agreement 85.71% grade: A1: Compared with their younger counterparts, individuals aged ≥ 60 years are at a higher risk of developing gastric cancer even when asymptomatic. The rate of gastric cancer increases significantly after the age of 60 years among individuals in the Middle East. Given that these countries report incidence rates of > 20 cases per 100000 at age 40, individuals aged ≥ 50 are deemed to be at elevated risk. Consequently, asymptomatic adults aged > 60 years must be prioritized while screening for gastric cancer and implementing preventive measures owing to their increased vulnerability to the disease. Statement 7: Patients with severe atrophy (OLGA 3/4) require regular endoscopic follow-up with biopsies Agreement 100% grade: B1: Patients with severe atrophic gastritis, classified as OLGA stages III or IV, must be regularly followed up using endoscopic biopsy. The staging system for atrophic
