W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


biopsies Agreement 100% grade: B1: Patients with severe atrophic gastritis, classified as OLGA stages III or IV, must be regularly followed up using endoscopic biopsy. The staging system for atrophic gastritis assesses the risk of gastric cancer by categorizing the severity of mucosal atrophy, thereby guiding tailored endoscopic surveillance protocols that prevent the incidence of secondary cancer. The eradication of H. pylori can lead to partial regression of atrophic gastritis and IM; however, it does not eliminate the risk of cancer in advanced stages. High-resolution endoscopy with advanced imaging techniques is recommended to detect small neoplastic lesions and ensure thorough evaluation[106, 206]. The European management of epithelial precancerous conditions and lesions of the stomach (MAPS II) guidelines recommend conducting high-quality endoscopic evaluation every 3 years to monitor and manage the risk of cancer in patients with advanced atrophic gastritis. Statement 8: H. pylori must be eradicated post-resection of early gastric cancer to prevent recurrence Agreement 100% grade: A1: H. pylori must be eradicated to mitigate the risk of developing metachronous gastric cancer following curative endoscopic resection or subtotal gastric resection for early gastric cancer. The eradication of H. pylori results in a significant reduction in the likelihood of subsequent malignancies. A notable reduction in the risk of metachronous cancer risk with an odds ratio of 0.392 was observed in a meta-analysis encompassing five studies. A recent randomized controlled trial involving 396 patients further substantiated these findings by demonstrating a reduction in the incidence of metachronous cancer compared with that in the placebo group following eradication therapy (hazard ratio of 0.50). A meta-analysis of 11 cohort studies and 3 randomized control trials confirmed that the eradication of H. pylori reduced the risk of metachronous gastric cancer by approximately 35%. Eradication helps prevent the development of new cancers; however, it does not eliminate the risk, particularly in patients with atrophic gastritis and IM. Thus, endoscopic surveillance must be continued to monitor these high-risk individuals. CHAPTER 5: H. PYLORI RESISTANCE AND THE GUT MICROBIOTA Statement 1: Antibiotics used for non-H. pylori infections can promote resistant strains Agreement 85.71% grade: B2: Antibiotic use for the management of various infections may inadvertently select H. pylori strains that are resistant to treatment. Resistance to amoxicillin has not been observed in H. pylori strains despite prolonged use; however, this does not indicate that other antibiotics are as benign. Higher usage of macrolides and quinolones increased the resistance
