W J G World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pylori, therapy, eradication, resistance, treatment, statement, gastric, patients, bqt, grade, cancer, rates, infection, risk, consensus


not been observed in H. pylori strains despite prolonged use; however, this does not indicate that other antibiotics are as benign. Higher usage of macrolides and quinolones increased the resistance of H. pylori to these antibiotics. The rising resistance rates following ineffective H. pylori eradication treatments with quinolones, macrolides, and metronidazole across various patient cohorts further indicate this trend. However, prospective research on the effect of cumulative antibiotic use on H. pylori resistance over time is lacking. DISCUSSION This consensus focused on the clinically relevant aspects of H. pylori management and made key recommendations and considerations, including reusing the gastric biopsies from rapid urease test for PCR-based molecular testing to confirm infection and detect resistance without necessitating additional biopsies, thereby offering a cost-effective approach. Though its practical implementation varies, clarithromycin susceptibility testing is recommended before initiating therapy to prevent resistance and to optimize treatment. Follow-up endoscopy is generally unnecessary for low-stage gastritis post-eradication, unless specific risk factors are present. Routine susceptibility testing is encouraged to improve antibiotic stewardship; however, its feasibility depends on logistical and economic factors. H. pylori infection remains the WJG 17 July 21, 2025 Volume 31 Issue 27 Sharara AI et al. Middle East H. pylori management regional consensus primary cause of gastric adenocarcinoma, highlighting the importance of targeted eradication efforts. Confirmatory tests such as UBT or SAT must be conducted following serological detection to ensure accurate diagnosis before treatment. Asymptomatic individuals aged ≥ 45 years with a family history of gastric cancer must be encouraged to undergo H. pylori testing. Eradication therapy can foster resistant gut microbiota strains. The use of certain probiotics may alleviate GI side effects; however, their effectiveness varies. These considerations emphasize the requirement for implementing a comprehensive and individualized approach to H. pylori management. While these guidelines aim to standardize and optimize the management of H. pylori across the Middle East, several limitations and challenges must be acknowledged. First, the availability of reliable data across countries remains limited, with antibiotic resistance surveillance being inconsistent and many regions lacking centralized reporting systems. As a result, empirical treatment often remains the only practical option, particularly in the absence of routine susceptibility testing. Resource constraints also pose a significant barrier as advanced therapies like BQT (e.g., Pylera®) are not widely accessible across all levels of care. For instance, Pylera® may be available in main hospitals in Kuwait but remains unavailable in primary care settings, forcing
