J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2006) 13:2–6
KEYWORDS: guidelines, ati, wit, pancreatitis, acute, management, acute pancreatitis, eit, sti, wit eit, evidence, management acute, group, society, recommendation


J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2006) 13:2–6 DOI JPN Guidelines for the management of acute pancreatitis: cutting-edge information Tadahiro Takada1,*, Yoshifumi Kawarada2, Koichi Hirata3, Toshihiko Mayumi4, Masahiro Yoshida1, Miho Sekimoto5, Masahiko Hirota6, Yasutoshi Kimura3, Kazunori Takeda7, Shuji Isaji8, Masaru Koizumi9, Makoto Otsuki10,**, and Seiki Matsuno11,*** Kitakyushu, Japan Abstract (1960–2004) search and discussed the available literature on The JPN Guidelines for the Management of Acute acute pancreatitis (limited to human pancreatitis). The Work- Pancreatitis are organized under the subject headings: epide- ing Group held many general discussions in order to reach a miology, diagnosis, management strategy, severity assessment consensus on the content of the Guidelines. After producing a and transfer criteria, management of gallstone pancreatitis, draft, the Publishing Committee of the JPN Guidelines for the nonsurgical management, and surgical management. The Management of Acute Pancreatitis posted it on a website and Guidelines contain cutting-edge information on each of these asked for comments and criticisms. Subsequently, a final ver- subjects, as well as a section on the Japanese medical insur- sion of the Guidelines was published in Japanese in 2003. The ance system which provides information that should prove Publishing Committee is now making the Guidelines available useful to physicians in other countries. The quality of the to a much wider readership by bringing out an English evidence was evaluated by the evidence-based classification version. method used at the Cochrane Library. The levels of recom- mendation of the individual management methods contained Key words EBM · Acute pancreatitis · Gallstone pancreati- in the Guidelines were determined on the basis of the evalua- tis · Pancreatitis epidemiology · Pancreatitis etiology tion of evidence by the consensus of the members of the Working Group (see below). The Japanese Society for Ab- dominal Emergency Medicine, the Japan Pancreas Society, and the Research Group for Intractable Diseases and Refrac- Introduction tory Pancreatic Diseases (which is sponsored by the Japanese to produce the JPN Guidelines for the Management of Acute by specialists in surgery, internal medicine, and emer- Pancreatitis. A Working Group of 20 physicians specializing gency medicine but also by general physicians, gastro- in pancreatic diseases and emergency medicine investigated enterologists, and general surgeons. Consequently, the and analyzed 14821 cases retrieved by means of a Medline Guidelines have been prepared in order to help these physicians to diagnose acute pancreatitis accurately and to manage patients by means of an appropriate treat- Offprint requests to: T. Takada ment
