J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2006) 13:2–6
KEYWORDS: guidelines, ati, wit, pancreatitis, acute, management, acute pancreatitis, eit, sti, wit eit, evidence, management acute, group, society, recommendation


have been prepared in order to help these physicians to diagnose acute pancreatitis accurately and to manage patients by means of an appropriate treat- Offprint requests to: T. Takada ment policy, thus improving survival rates. According to *President, Japanese Society of Emergency Abdominal the available literature, the mortality rate for patients Medicine; President, Japanese Society of Hepato- with severe acute pancreatitis ranged between 30% and Biliary-Pancreatic Surgery; President, Asian-Pacific 21.4% from 1987 to 1999. Which cases are likely to be Hepato-Pancreato-Biliary Association fatal? Which categories of morbidity are likely to **Chairman, Intractable Pancreatic Disease Investiga- become more severe? And under what circumstances tion and Research Group of the Japanese Ministry of should patients be transferred to a special hospital? ***President, Japan Pancreas Society these and other questions. T. Takada et al.: Cutting-edge guidelines for management of acute pancreatitis 3 Several sets of evidence-based guidelines for the ists from the Japanese Society of Abdominal Emer- management of acute pancreatitis have been published; gency Medicine, who searched the available documents those of the Atlanta Symposium of 1992,1 the United and evaluated the evidence they found there5. Follow- Kingdom Guidelines of 1998,2 and the Santorini Con- ing this process, a Guidelines Investigation Committee sensus Conference of 19993 are representative. How- — consisting of members of the Working Group, the ever, they were based on the evidence available at the Japan Pancreas Society, and the Research Group for time, and the validity of any set of guidelines is short- Intractable Diseases and Refractory Pancreatic Dis- lived and guidelines need to be revised every 2 years.1 eases — was formed to examine the draft Guidelines. Indeed, new evidence is reported almost daily, and In addition to the Investigation Committee, an Evalu- guidelines for management in clinical settings are ation Committee — whose members were drawn from changing nearly as fast, thanks to the remarkable ad- the Japanese Society of Abdominal Emergency Medi- developed in recent years. The International Associa- Welfare, and several external institutions — was formed tion of Pancreatology guidelines4 were most recently to critique the Guidelines whenever necessary. published in 2002, but they are concerned solely with the surgical management of acute pancreatitis. Defining and extending the search of the literature The Guidelines Publishing Committee very much hopes that this publication will help clinicians world- Works were selected as follows. Using “pancreatitis” as wide to become familiar with the Guidelines, and the the
