J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2006) 13:2–6
KEYWORDS: guidelines, ati, wit, pancreatitis, acute, management, acute pancreatitis, eit, sti, wit eit, evidence, management acute, group, society, recommendation


Publishing Committee very much hopes that this publication will help clinicians world- Works were selected as follows. Using “pancreatitis” as wide to become familiar with the Guidelines, and the the key search word, a MeSH-based exploration of the Committee hopes that those professionals will offer Ovid Medline database (1960–2004) yielded approxi- their comments and criticisms once they have had the mately 28000 items under the headings “pancreatitis”, opportunity to compare them with the guidelines in use “acute necrotizing pancreatitis,” and “alcoholic pancre- in their own countries. atitis.” The items were then screened to confine the entries to those related to human pancreatitis. This yielded 14821 items in English, and after examination of Purpose of the Guidelines all the titles and abstracts, 1348 were selected, and a careful examination of the full texts was conducted. The mortality rate among patients with severe acute Other sources quoted in these selected works, together agnostic criteria, methods of severity assessment, and as reports prepared by the Research Group, were in- new treatments have been used at a number of institu- cluded in the examination. tions. However, there are inter-institutional differences in the ways in which the disease is managed, due to the Categories of evidence and the grading of lack of evidence-based guidelines. recommendations In view of this situation, the Guidelines have been formulated with the aim of providing practical manage- The evidence obtained from each reference item was ment guidelines to clinicians engaged in the manage- evaluated in accordance with the scientific classification ment of acute pancreatitis. The Working Group has method used at the Cochrane Library (Table 1),6 and striven to ensure that the Guidelines will help general the quality of evidence for each parameter associated clinicians not only to assess the severity of acute pancre- with the diagnosis and treatment of acute pancreatitis atitis promptly but also to manage the disease appropri- was determined. The relevant terms used are explained ately and efficiently. The Guidelines should also help the footnote of Table 1.6 Based on the results obtained patients, their families, and the general public to acquire from these procedures, recommendation grades of A to better knowledge of acute pancreatitis, and thereby E, were determined according to the definitions shown lead to a better standard of medical management based in Table 2, and these recommendation grades are men- on mutual understanding between those who provide tioned, as required, in the text
