CASE REPORT J Nepal Med Assoc 2022;60(253):817-20
KEYWORDS: foreign, ingestion, case, patient, perforation, abdominal, body, foreign body, foreign bodies, bodies, history, magnet, report, day, vomiting


CASE REPORT J Nepal Med Assoc 2022;60(253):817-20 CC CC BY BY doi: Intestinal Perforation with Ingestion of Blunt Foreign Bodies: A Case Report Lok Bahadur Kathayat,1 Anup Chalise,1 Jemesh Singh Maharjan,1 Jasmine Bajracharya,2 Ritesh Shrestha2 ABSTRACT Foreign body ingestions are fairly common and present with obvious symptoms. Certain foreign bodies, like button batteries and magnets, are rarely ingested, but carry with them the extremely dangerous risk of bowel wall necrosis, intestinal perforation and fistula formation. Suspected cases of such ingestions require a high index of suspicion and any delay should be avoided once a diagnosis is made. Herein, we report a case of a 7-year-old male patient who presented with abdominal pain and vomiting following similar foreign body ingestion, which resulted in multiple small bowel perforations. The foreign body was removed by a laparotomy, and the affected bowel segments were resected and anastomosed. The patient made an uneventful recovery and was discharged after 5 days. Keywords: case reports; foreign bodies; ingestion; intestinal perforation; magnets. INTRODUCTION The ingestion of foreign bodies is common in children, radiating, and lacking any aggravating or relieving with the ingestion of magnetic objects a rarity, with an factors. The boy had two episodes of non-bilious, non- expected incidence of around 3.06 cases per 100000 blood stained vomiting which contained food particles. children per year.1 However, this number has been However, the child had been passing stool and flatus growing owing to the increase in magnetic toys. and had no other complaints at the presentation. The Single magnet ingestion could behave like any other mother initially claimed that the boy had swallowed foreign body ingestion, but the risk of perforation a single foreign body, which was an elliptical object increases tremendously when more than one magnet measuring around 2 x 1 cm. His past medical history, is ingested and crosses the pylorus. When the family history, drug history, and psychosocial history magnetic poles align, they could hold the bowel wall were insignificant. in between them leading to tissue ischemia, pressure On examination, his vitals were within normal limits. necrosis, intestinal perforation, and fistula formation.2 Per abdominal examination as well as digital rectal We report a case of ingestion of two foreign bodies. examination were unremarkable. An abdominal Initially, although the history of ingestion was known, X-ray (erect and supine) was sent which revealed not the type of foreign body swallowed was unknown. only one but two elliptical
