CASE REPORT J Nepal Med Assoc 2022;60(253):817-20
KEYWORDS: foreign, ingestion, case, patient, perforation, abdominal, body, foreign body, foreign bodies, bodies, history, magnet, report, day, vomiting


0.5 x 0.5 cm2. The second perforation was at 160 cm distal to the DJ flexure measuring around 1 x 1 cm2. The third perforation was at 30 cm proximal to the ileocecal junction measuring around 0.5 x 0.5 cm2. The foreign bodies were two elongated objects measuring 2.5 x 0.5 Figure 2. X-ray abdomen showing free gas under the cm2 just distal to the first and third perforation (Figure ameasuring ~2 x 1 cm. 3). Figure 3. Enterotomy to remove the magnets. Peritoneal lavage was done and the first magnet was removed via an enterotomy as the resection margins were healthy, while the second magnet was extracted with wedge resection. An anastomosis was created for this segment, while the primary repair was done for the first and the third perforations. These were very strong magnets. A drain was placed in the subhepatic space, and another one was placed in the pelvis. Post-operatively, he had 818 JNMA I VOL 60 I ISSUE 253 I SEPTEMBER 2022 Free Full Text Articles are Available at www.jnma.com.np Kathayat et al. Intestinal Perforation with Ingestion of Blunt Foreign Bodies: A Case Report an uneventful recovery. Drains were removed on the multiple magnets, which held true for our case.16 third postoperative day when he was started on liquids Studies have also shown that conservative management and he had passed stool and flatus. He was discharged could be considered in cases of single magnet ingestion but endoscopic removal should be performed without and uneventful recovery. Six months post-discharge, delay if more than one magnet is ingested and has not the patient is doing well. crossed the pylorus of the stomach. When magnets DISCUSSION cross the pylorus, surgical intervention is a must even if the patient is asymptomatic.16 In our case, initially the Foreign body ingestion is a common, potentially type of object swallowed was not known, so once the patient was symptomatic a laparotomy with resection between 6 months to 3 years of age. Cases reported in and anastomosis was required. Had the nature of the the literature have shown that the patients commonly object swallowed been clearer earlier on, this would presented with either a history of known ingestion have led to a different management path, and probably or complaints of abdominal pain and nausea with or a different outcome. without vomiting.3,4 The patient reported in our case belonged to a higher age group.3-8 This
