Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


ABSTRACT Despite the health consequences of osteoporosis and the availability of effective treatments, it is under-diagnosed and under-treated. For example, although 90% of patients with hip fractures have osteoporosis, in 2007 only 20% of patients with fragility fractures were evaluated and treated. In a retrospective study of patients with hip fractures, less than 15% of subjects were diagnosed and less than 13% were treated with medications for osteoporosis, including calcium and vitamin D. Fracture patients require evaluation of secondary causes and treatment of osteoporosis to help prevent subsequent fractures. The preceding chapters summarize the pathogenesis and the clinical evaluation of osteoporosis. This chapter will review established therapeutic options and new approaches for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis. Strategies include both lifestyle and medical approaches to enhance bone strength. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Osteoporosis is a major growing global health problem, resulting in 200 million osteoporotic fractures worldwide each year ( 1 , 2 ). Characterized by reduced bone mass and architectural deterioration, it leads to an increased risk of fragility fractures often occurring with minimal trauma such as falling from a standing height. These fractures rise exponentially with advancing age and most commonly involve the spine, hip or distal forearm. An estimated 1 in 2 women and 1 in 4 men aged 50 years and older will suffer a fragility fracture in their remaining lifetime. Hip fractures are the most serious of these fractures, given the high rates of morbidity and mortality. Approximately 50% of patients who sustain a hip fracture lose the ability to walk independently and 12-24% of women suffering a hip fracture die within the 1 st year, compared to 33% of men ( 3-5 ). Vertebral compression fractures are the most common osteoporotic fractures, but they are often asymptomatic and found incidentally on imaging done for other reasons. Vertebral fractures are, however, associated with high rates of morbidity involving height loss, kyphosis, restrictive lung disease, back pain, and functional impairment. Vertebral fractures are associated with a 5-fold increased risk of future vertebral fractures and a 2 to 3-fold risk of other fragility fractures. Although there are very effective treatments to reduce fracture risk, only 30% of patients with fragility fractures have a bone density test and/or are treated for their underlying osteoporosis. There are currently critically needed national and international efforts
