Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


fracture risk, only 30% of patients with fragility fractures have a bone density test and/or are treated for their underlying osteoporosis. There are currently critically needed national and international efforts to improve fracture care and bone health in women and men. Identification of osteoporosis at the time of a hip, spine, or other fragility fracture is imperative so that patients with fragility fractures can be evaluated for secondary causes of osteoporosis and treated with osteoporosis medications for their underlying bone disease. The preceding chapters summarize the pathogenesis and the clinical evaluation of osteoporosis. This chapter will focus on reviewing established therapeutic options and new approaches for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis. Strategies include both lifestyle and medical approaches to enhance bone strength and reduce fractures. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Bone is a dynamic organ with continuous remodeling occurring as osteoclasts resorb bone and osteoblasts form new bone. Among the key regulators of this process is the receptor activator of nuclear factor-kappa B (RANK)/RANK ligand (RANKL)/osteoprotegerin (OPG) system. Interaction between RANKL, produced by the osteoblast lineage, and RANK receptor stimulates osteoclastic differentiation and activity; OPG, made by osteoblasts, is an endogenous decoy receptor that binds with RANKL, inhibiting bone resorption. In addition, the Wnt signaling pathway is involved in activation of transcription of genes that direct the differentiation and proliferation of osteoblasts. In the skeletal life cycle, there is acquisition of peak bone mass during adolescence and young adulthood. For women, bone loss is accelerated surrounding the time of menopause with decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) of approximately 2-3%/year. With advancing age, the decline in BMD occurs at a slower rate of approximately 0.1 to 0.5% per year in women and men. DIAGNOSIS BMD testing is typically measured in the proximal femur and lumbar spine, though the distal radius should be measured in patients with hyperparathyroidism or in those in whom the other major sites cannot be adequately assessed. Each SD below peak bone mass represents approximately 2-fold increase in fracture risk. Osteopenia is present when the BMD is between 1.0 and 2.5 SDs below bone density of young healthy individuals. More than 50% of fragility fractures occur in these patients ( 6 ). Osteoporosis is defined as a BMD≤-2.5 SDs of young normal, healthy individuals. Vertebral imaging by DXA or X-ray is useful for identification of spinal fractures that frequently are not clinically evident. The Bone Health and Osteoporosis Foundation (BHOF,
