Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


IgA level for celiac sprue), infiltrative diseases (serum tryptase for mastocytosis), neoplastic (serum and urine protein electrophoresis), or excess glucocorticoid (cortisol levels, dexamethasone suppression test for Cushing’s syndrome). To quantify an individual’s absolute fracture risk, the World Health Organization (WHO) developed the FRAX ® calculator ( http://www.shef.ac.uk/FRAX ), an integrative measure of various risk factors and femoral neck bone mineral density. In addition to BMD, the following risk factors are included - ethnicity, age, BMI, prior fracture history (designated as a previous fracture in adult life that occurred spontaneously or a fracture arising from trauma, which in a healthy individual would not have resulted in a fracture), glucocorticoid use, excessive alcohol (≥3 units per day), smoking, rheumatoid arthritis, and certain secondary causes of osteoporosis. These secondary causes include Type 1 diabetes, osteogenesis imperfecta, long-standing hyperthyroidism, hypogonadism, premature menopause, malnutrition, malabsorption, or liver disease. If the 10-year absolute fracture risk is ≥3% for hip fractures or ≥20% for other major osteoporotic fractures , pharmacologic therapy should be considered ( 7 ). The FRAX ® calculator should be utilized in postmenopausal woman ≥ 40 years and men ≥ 50 years with osteopenia. Although there are data analyzing the use of FRAX ® in patients who have been treated with osteoporosis medications, its use is not currently validated for patients currently or formerly treated with pharmacotherapy for osteoporosis. Additionally, the FDA has approved the use of trabecular bone score (TBS), a structural measure derived from spinal bone density images that is associated with bone microarchitecture and fracture risk. Combining TBS and the FRAX score may increased the predictive value of the absolute fracture risk assessment ( 8 ). Although the FRAX ® calculator has greatly enhanced treatment of osteopenic women and men at risk for fractures, certain risk factors predictive of fracture risk are not accurately measured in this calculator. Patients on chronic glucocorticoids may warrant treatment earlier or at a lower threshold than determined by FRAX ® ; further, this tool does not include current or cumulative glucocorticoid doses or duration of treatment ( 9 ). Also, of note, spine BMD is not included in the algorithm. Once an initial bone density is measured, a follow-up BMD should be done 1-2 years after the initial screening depending on whether pharmacologic therapy was initiated. Biochemical bone turnover markers, collagen breakdown products, (e.g., N-telopeptide, C-telopeptide) may be helpful in select patients as an indicator
