Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


after the initial screening depending on whether pharmacologic therapy was initiated. Biochemical bone turnover markers, collagen breakdown products, (e.g., N-telopeptide, C-telopeptide) may be helpful in select patients as an indicator of skeletal remodeling or to determine patient’s adherence to treatment. EXERCISE While pharmacological therapies are a major focus of this chapter, exercise and strategies to strengthen muscles and prevent falls are important components of osteoporosis care. Skeletal loading and mechanical loads from muscle forces have important effects on bone strength ( 10 ). Meta-analyses and clinical investigations have shown that exercise produces modest increases in BMD often ranging between 1% and 3% ( 11 ). Physical activity helps to maximize BMD during adolescence and young adulthood, diminish bone loss during aging, and improve stability and strength to minimize falls and fractures in the elderly ( 11-14 ). However, these benefits come from slow skeletal adaptations to training over time. Because it takes three to four months to complete the bone remodeling cycle of bone resorption, formation, and mineralization, a minimum of at least six to eight months of an exercise intervention is likely required to achieve a change in bone mass that is quantifiable ( 15 , 16 ). The benefits of exercise are lost when people stop exercising, therefore lifelong physical activity at all ages is strongly endorsed by the BHOF. Exercise recommendations generally should include weight-bearing, muscle-strengthening, and balance training exercises for 30 minutes 5 days per week or 75 minutes twice weekly, often consistent with other general health recommendations. Weight-bearing exercises are activities that make the body move against gravity such as walking, jogging, dancing, tennis, and Tai Chi. To protect the spine in patients with low spinal bone density, maintaining a straight spine and avoiding arching and twisting are generally recommended. CALCIUM Adequate calcium intake is essential to prevent calcium mobilization from the bone where 99% of calcium is stored. The effects of calcium supplementation on bone depend on age, menopausal status, calcium intake, and vitamin D sufficiency. Increased calcium intake is necessary during acquisition of peak bone mass and with advancing age. Calcium has modest effects on bone density ( 17 ). It is ineffective or minimally effective for prevention of bone loss in women within five years of menopause when there may be predominant effects of estrogen deficiency and other hormonal changes. The Institute of Medicine's recommendations for daily calcium intake that meet the
