Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


within five years of menopause when there may be predominant effects of estrogen deficiency and other hormonal changes. The Institute of Medicine's recommendations for daily calcium intake that meet the requirements of 97% of the population are shown in Table 2 ( 18 ). Unless a patient has an underlying disorder of calcium homeostasis, the upper limit of safety is considered 2,500 mg for adults aged 19 to 50 years and 2,000 mg for those >50 years ( 19 ). As maximum absorption of elemental calcium is about 500 to 600 mg at once, calcium intakes need to be divided into multiple doses throughout the day. Table 2. Recommended Daily Elemental Calcium Intake (Adapted from 2011 IOM Report) View in own window 9-18 years Lactating Women 1,300 mg Women 19-50 years, Men 19-70 years 1,000 mg Women > 50 years, Men > 70 years 1,200 mg Obtaining calcium through the diet is preferred. While dairy products contain the largest amount of endogenous calcium, many foods including juices, cereals, and cereal bars, may contain added calcium. An 8-ounce glass of milk or calcium-supplemented orange juice contains ~300 mg of elemental calcium, calcium-supplemented soy and almond milk contains ~450 mg, one ounce (or 1 cubic inch) of cheese contains ~200 mg, and certain cereals contain as much as 1000 mg. It is important for physicians to calculate the dietary calcium intake. Resources helpful for patients to calculate their calcium intake include the U.S. dairy council of California website, http://www.healthyeating.org/Healthy-Eating/Healthy-Eating-Tools/Calcium-Quiz.aspx?action=quiz , the International Osteoporosis Foundation website, https://www.iofbonehealth.org/calcium-calculator , and the NOF Clinical Guide also available on the website https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00198-021-05900-y ( 7 ). The former allows patients to check off the type and quantity of calcium-containing foods they usually consume and then calculates total daily calcium, with suggestions on how to increase calcium intake to recommended levels. The latter provides an easy tool to calculate calcium intakes from calcium-rich, dietary sources. Supplemental calcium should be used if an individual’s dietary calcium intake does not meet the recommended daily calcium intake. Calcium carbonate contains 40% of elemental calcium and is a commonly used calcium supplement (e.g., Tums™, Oscal™, Caltrate™, and generic preparations). Calcium carbonate should be taken with food because patients with achlorhydria (or those on proton pump inhibitors chronically) cannot absorb this calcium salt well on an empty stomach ( 20 ). Adverse effects of calcium carbonate may include bloating and constipation. Calcium citrate
