Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


on proton pump inhibitors chronically) cannot absorb this calcium salt well on an empty stomach ( 20 ). Adverse effects of calcium carbonate may include bloating and constipation. Calcium citrate (e.g., Citracal™), which contains 24% elemental calcium, is more bioavailable than calcium carbonate, can be taken while fasting and as a result is the formulation suggested when patients are on proton pump inhibitors chronically. There have been a number of concerns related to the use of supplemental calcium and the risk of kidney stones and cardiovascular disease. Data from epidemiologic research and clinical trials suggest that vitamin D reduces the incidence of fractures and may also prevent falls and declining physical function, yet the available data are not consistent ( 21 ). Data from the Women’s Health Initiative (WHI) calcium and vitamin D clinical trial (CT) of supplemental calcium (1000 mg daily) plus vitamin D (400 IU daily) versus placebo in 36,282 women showed a 17% increased risk of developing renal stones in those assigned calcium plus vitamin D. However, among those compliant with the calcium plus vitamin D regimen versus placebo, there was a 29% reduced risk of hip fracture over seven years ( 22 ). Some evidence suggests that calcium supplements but generally not dietary calcium may be associated with vascular calcifications and an increased risk for myocardial infarction ( 23 ). In a prospective study in the National Institutes of Health AARP Diet and Health Study of 388,229 women and men in whom baseline calcium intakes were ascertained after an average of 12 years of follow-up, supplemental but not dietary calcium intakes were associated with excess cardiovascular death in men but not women; adverse cardiovascular effects were only observed among smokers ( 23 ) ( 24 ). An analysis of the WHI randomized placebo-controlled calcium and vitamin D trial (CT) and the WHI prospective observational study (OS) showed that in the CT, in postmenopausal women who did not take supplemental calcium and vitamin D at baseline, supplemental calcium (1000 mg/day) and vitamin D (400 IU/D) versus placebo for ≥ 5years was associated with a 38% reduction in the risk of hip fracture. In a combined analysis of data from the CT and OS, supplemental calcium and vitamin D reduced the risk of a hip fracture by 35%. In these subset analyses of the large WHI, it is important to note that there were no adverse effects of
