Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


D reduced the risk of a hip fracture by 35%. In these subset analyses of the large WHI, it is important to note that there were no adverse effects of supplemental calcium plus vitamin D on risks of myocardial infarction, stroke, or other cardiovascular disease ( 25 ). Although additional analyses are ongoing, calcium intakes within the ranges recommended by the IOM appear not to increase cardiovascular risk. Recently, however, the United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommended against supplemental calcium (≤1000 mg/day) and low-dose vitamin D (≤400 IU/D) in healthy postmenopausal women due to lack of evidence of benefit in fracture reduction and evidence for increased risk of kidney stones. Thus, the risk of renal stones with calcium supplementation needs to be balanced with fracture reduction. These recommendations did not apply to adults with osteoporosis or vitamin D deficiency ( 22 , 26 ). VITAMIN D Vitamin D insufficiency and deficiency is a common problem in many individuals. Individuals at increased risk for low vitamin D levels include the elderly and those with low vitamin D intake, malabsorption, inadequate sunlight exposure, use of sunblock, dark skin pigment, obesity, chronic kidney disease, and use of medications that increase the metabolism of vitamin D. Vitamin D deficiency and insufficiency are common in adults with hip fractures ( 30 , 31 ). Vitamin D deficiency can lead to reduced calcium absorption, secondary hyperparathyroidism, and increased risk of fractures ( 30 , 32-34 ). Mild vitamin D insufficiency may not cause symptoms, but contributes to low bone mass. Severe vitamin D deficiency causes osteomalacia. In addition, although more data are needed, vitamin D deficiency has been associated with proximal muscle weakness, impaired physical performance, increased risk of falls, and possibly increased risks of some cancers (including colorectal, breast among others) ( 19 , 35-41 ). Deficient levels of vitamin D are generally defined as a 25-(OH) vitamin D <20 ng/ml, relative insufficiency as 21 to 29 ng/ml, and sufficient levels of vitamin D to prevent the rise in parathyroid hormone levels as a 25-(OH) vitamin D ≥ 30 to 32 ng/ml ( 42 ). The National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) report showed that 32% of Americans have vitamin D deficiency ( 43 ). Sources of dietary intake of vitamin D are limited and these include vitamin D-fortified milk and some soy milks (100 IU/glass), certain cereals, egg yolk, and oily
