Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


differing recommendations regarding the optimal 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25-OHD) level for bone health with the IOM committee recommending a 25-OH D level ≥20-29 ng/mL while several other societies recommend a 25-OHD level ≥30 ng/mL ( 44 , 45 ). In the presence of vitamin D deficiency, it is safe to normalize vitamin D levels to a 25-(OH)D level of 30 ng/ml to prevent the compensatory rise in parathyroid hormone (PTH) level ( 33 , 47 ). This may be done in a variety of ways. High doses of vitamin D may be needed [e.g., 50,000 IU of D 2 (ergocalciferol) or equivalent dose of D 3 (cholecalciferol) weekly for 8 weeks or according to the 25-hydroxyvitamin D level] ( 45 ). Individuals with malabsorption often require very high doses of supplemental vitamin D, and may benefit from evaluation by a bone specialist. TREATMENT AND/OR PREVENTION OF OSTEOPOROSIS There are effective therapies for osteoporosis and promising therapeutics under development. The antiresorptive therapies that reduce bone turnover include: bisphosphonates; estrogen or hormone therapy, estrogen agonists/antagonists [selective estrogen-receptor modulators (SERMs)]; calcitonin; and denosumab, a human monoclonal antibody to RANK-ligand. At present there are two FDA-approved anabolic or bone forming osteoporosis therapy, teriparatide [PTH ( 1 - 34 )] and abaloparatide. Romosozumab is a monoclonal antibody to sclerostin and stimulates bone formation and inhibits bone resorption. In selection of the optimal therapy for a given individual, it is important to consider patient preference, cost, mode of administration, duration of treatment, and the effects of a treatment on reduction of spine, hip and other non-spine fractures. Tables 4 and 5 lists the currently available osteoporosis drugs approved by the FDA, their dosage, indication, and general efficacy for fracture reduction. HORMONE REPLACEMENT THERAPY In postmenopausal women, it is well known that estrogen therapy (ET) and hormone therapy [estrogen plus progesterone (HT)] prevent bone loss and increase BMD through interaction with estrogen receptors on bone cells, activation of tissue-specific genes and proteins, and/or a reduction in cytokines that stimulate osteoclast function ( 51-54 ). In addition to the bone density benefit, the Women’s Health Initiative (WHI) did show that HT resulted in a 34% reduction in the risk of hip fractures and clinical spine fractures ( 55 ). However, the risks – increases in breast cancer, coronary heart disease (CHD), pulmonary embolism (PE), and stroke, outweighed the benefits. In addition, after cessation of ET or HT, the benefit
