Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


However, the risks – increases in breast cancer, coronary heart disease (CHD), pulmonary embolism (PE), and stroke, outweighed the benefits. In addition, after cessation of ET or HT, the benefit of fracture reduction is not sustained ( 56 , 57 ). Although data from the WHI show that ET and HT reduce fractures, ET and HT are FDA-approved for the prevention of fractures but not for the treatment of osteoporosis ( 55 , 58 ). Data has shown potential cardiovascular safety with use of ET in early menopause, though this remains controversial (the “critical window” hypothesis) ( 59-61 ). Unlike oral estrogens, in postmenopausal women transdermal estrogens do not adversely affect clotting factors, and are therefore preferred. Transdermal estrogens prevent bone loss and are available in low doses (e.g., 0.014 to 0.0375 mg daily patch applied 2x/week). In women with premature or early menopause, hormone replacement can be considered until the natural age of menopause (51.3 years) ( 62 ). Before estrogen is prescribed, the benefits versus the risks of cardiovascular disease, stroke, and breast cancer should be reviewed. When prescribing estrogen, the FDA recommends the following: consider all non-estrogen preparations first for osteoporosis prevention; use the lowest dose of HT/ET for the shortest time interval to achieve therapeutic goals; and prescribe HT/ET when benefits outweigh risks in a given woman. Estrogen Agonist/Antagonists Estrogen Selective agonists/antagonists previously classified as selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) are a class of drugs that bind to estrogen receptors and can selectively function as agonists or antagonists in different tissues. Raloxifene (Evista™) is Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis. Raloxifene was also approved by the FDA in 2007 for reduction in the risk of invasive breast cancer in post-menopausal women with osteoporosis and postmenopausal women at high risk for invasive breast cancer. The Multiple Outcomes of Raloxifene Evaluation (MORE) study was a randomized clinical trial of the effects of raloxifene versus placebo on bone density and fractures in 7,705 postmenopausal women (mean age of 67 years) with osteoporosis. Compared with placebo, raloxifene treatment for three years increased BMD of the spine by 2.6% and of the femoral neck by 2.1%. Over three years, raloxifene reduced spine fractures by 55% in women without prevalent vertebral fractures and by 30% in women with more than one prevalent vertebral fracture ( 63 ). Raloxifene therapy did not lead to a reduction
