Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


55% in women without prevalent vertebral fractures and by 30% in women with more than one prevalent vertebral fracture ( 63 ). Raloxifene therapy did not lead to a reduction in hip or wrist fractures, which was further confirmed in the Continuing Outcomes Relevant to Evista (CORE) trial ( 64 ). Additional benefits of raloxifene include the reduction in invasive breast cancer risk and mild decreases in LDL-cholesterol, with no effect on the risk of cardiovascular disease. The side effects of raloxifene include an increase in deep venous thrombosis similar to use of estrogen, along with a small increase in hot flashes and leg cramps, and a small increased risk of fatal stroke in the Raloxifene Use for the Heart (RUTH trial). Tamoxifen, a SERM used for the prevention and treatment of estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer, has estrogen-like effects in bone. It also stimulates the endometrium and can result in uterine hyperplasia or malignancy ( 65 ). Bazedoxifene, lasofoxifene, and arzoxifene are third-generation SERMs, none of which appear to cause endometrial hyperplasia ( 66 , 67 ). In a study of 7492 postmenopausal women with osteoporosis, women who received bazedoxifene (20 mg or 40 mg daily) compared with placebo had a lower incidence of new vertebral fractures, but not non-spine fractures ( 68 ). In a 7-year phase III, placebo-controlled study of 7492 women with osteoporosis , bazodoxifene versus placebo resulted in a 36.5% (40 mg daily dose) and 30.4% (20 mg daily dose) reduction in morphogenic spine fractures and no effect of overall incidence of nonvertebral fractures ( 69 ). In October, 2013, a combination of conjugated estrogens plus bazedoxifene (Duavee TM ) was FDA-approved for the treatment of moderate-severe vasomotor symptoms related to menopause and to prevent osteoporosis after menopause. At present raloxifene and bazodoxifene, are the only estrogen agonist/antagonist that are FDA-approved for prevention (raloxifene and bazodoxifene) and treatment (raloxifene only) of osteoporosis. Table 4. Effects of FDA-Approved Hormonal Osteoporosis Therapies on Fractures View in own window Drug Most Common Dosage Fracture Risk Reduction FDA Indications* Estrogen Therapy (ET) Hormone Therapy (HT) Many oral and transdermal preparations Spine, total hip PMO-Prevention Selective Estrogen Receptor Modulators Raloxifene 60 mg PO once daily Spine PMO - Prevention & Treatment; Reduce risk of invasive breast cancer in patients with osteoporosis and increased risk of breast cancer. Basodoxifene + conjugated estrogens 20 mg/0.45 mg PO once daily Spine PMO- Prevention PMO:
