Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


Reduce risk of invasive breast cancer in patients with osteoporosis and increased risk of breast cancer. Basodoxifene + conjugated estrogens 20 mg/0.45 mg PO once daily Spine PMO- Prevention PMO: postmenopausal osteoporosis; GIO: Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis CALCITONIN Calcitonin is a 32-amino acid peptide produced by the parafollicular cells of the thyroid that inhibits bone resorption through direct effects on the osteoclasts. Calcitonin is a highly conserved protein, with human and salmon calcitonin differing by only one amino acid. Injectable salmon calcitonin was approved by the FDA in 1984 for the treatment of osteoporosis, although current use is limited because of the availability of other more effective medications for the treatment of osteoporosis. Calcitonin nasal spray (Miacalcin™ and Fortical™ 200 IU daily) is a form of calcitonin ( 70 ) approved by the FDA for the treatment of osteoporosis in women more than five years past menopause. Although studies have shown calcitonin nasal spray to decrease spine fractures, there is no effect on the prevention of hip and other non-spine fractures. Current and future use of calcitonin for osteoporosis has been limited, however, because of data analyses showing a potential increased risk of cancers, particularly liver cancer with calcitonin use, though this remains controversial ( 71 ). An FDA review found no causal relationship between calcitonin use and cancer but cautioned that physicians should evaluate the potential benefit to relative risk of calcitonin use in patients. BISPHOSPHONATES Bisphosphonates are analogs of pyrophosphate that inhibit bone turnover and because of their phosphorous-carbon-phosphorous structure are resistant to hydrolysis. They have a strong affinity for calcium crystals and bind avidly to the surface of bone. Bisphosphonates suppress bone resorption and interrupt osteoclast activity directly through several mechanisms including inhibition of acid production, lysosomal enzymes, and the mevalonate pathway ( 72-74 ) and indirectly through their effects on osteoblasts and macrophages. They also inhibit osteoclast recruitment and induce osteoclast apoptosis. Thus, through various mechanisms, bisphosphonates reduce the depth of resorption pits (thereby producing positive bone balance at individual bone remodeling units) and decrease the formation of new bone remodeling units. Pharmacodynamics Oral bisphosphonates are poorly absorbed. Less than 3% is absorbed in the fasting state, and absorption is significantly reduced if these drugs are taken with food, calcium, or beverages other than water. The skeleton rapidly takes up approximately half of the absorbed bisphosphonate, and the remainder is excreted unchanged by the kidney within hours. The
