Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


food, calcium, or beverages other than water. The skeleton rapidly takes up approximately half of the absorbed bisphosphonate, and the remainder is excreted unchanged by the kidney within hours. The drug remains at the bone surface for several weeks before becoming embedded in bone, where it is biologically inert. The embedded drug then remains in bone for many years and is slowly released, although the skeletal retention varies among bisphosphonates. Potency and side effects of the bisphosphonates vary according to the side chains ( 75 , 76 ). Effective Therapies for Osteoporosis Alendronate (Fosamax™), risedronate (Actonel™, Atelvia™), ibandronate (Boniva™), and zoledronic acid (Reclast™) are all FDA approved for osteoporosis prevention and/or treatment. Their indication and specific fracture benefits on fracture reduction are shown in Table 5 . It is important to select an osteoporosis medication that reduces spine, hip and non-spine fractures, especially in high-risk individuals. Since around 50% of patients discontinue bisphosphonates within 1 year of treatment, it is essential to review compliance and adherence with patients. Of the approved bisphosphonates, Alendronate, Risedronate, and Zoledronic acid are now generic, making them affordable options for patients. ALENDRONATE Several longitudinal studies have shown that oral alendronate increases BMD and decreases the risk of osteoporotic fractures, and can be used for primary and secondary prevention. In a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials published between 1966 and 2007, the efficacy of alendronate in the primary and secondary prevention of osteoporotic fractures in postmenopausal women was evaluated ( 77 ). Eleven studies were selected, including three primary prevention studies ( 78-80 ) and eight secondary prevention studies involving women with low BMD on DXA and/or high prevalence of vertebral fracture ( 81-88 ). A total of 12,068 women received at least one year of oral alendronate (6543 women) or placebo (5525 women). Three trials, including the largest secondary prevention trial, Fracture Intervention Trial (FIT), used an initial daily dose of 5 mg and then switched to 10 mg for the remaining study duration. Other studies used 5 mg, 10 mg, or 20 mg of alendronate daily. The length of follow-up ranged from one to four years, and the mean ages were 53 to 78 years. With alendronate 10 mg daily for secondary prevention, there was a significant 45% relative risk reduction (RRR) in vertebral fractures, 23% RRR in non-vertebral fractures, and 53% RRR in hip fractures. For primary prevention, the RRR was only significant
