Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


was a significant 45% relative risk reduction (RRR) in vertebral fractures, 23% RRR in non-vertebral fractures, and 53% RRR in hip fractures. For primary prevention, the RRR was only significant for vertebral fractures (45%). No statistically significant differences in adverse events were found in any included study. The prevalence of osteoporosis is lower in men than in women. It is estimated that one out of two women and one out of four men over age 50 will develop an osteoporotic fracture ( 89 ). Several longitudinal studies have evaluated the efficacy of treatment interventions on bone in osteoporotic men. Orwoll et al. enrolled 241 men with a femoral neck T score of ≤ -2 with a lumbar spine T score ≤ -1 or a history of osteoporotic fracture and a femoral neck T score ≤ -1. Compared with placebo, alendronate significantly increased BMD at each site and decreased markers of bone turnover over two years. From baseline, alendronate increased BMD by 3.1% in the total hip and by 7.1% in the lumbar spine and decreased urinary N-telopeptides by 59% and bone-specific alkaline phosphatase by 38%. The incidence of vertebral fractures was 7.1% in the placebo group versus 0.8% in the alendronate group; there was insufficient power to assess the effects of alendronate on non-vertebral fractures ( 90 ). Similar results were seen in a smaller study of hypogonadism-induced osteoporosis, indicating no difference in the skeletal response to alendronate in the presence of hypogonadism. Alendronate is also effective in the treatment of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis. In glucocorticoid-treated men and women, alendronate resulted in increases in BMD ( 91 , 92 ) and decreases in incidence of radiographic vertebral fractures at two years (6.8% vs. 0.7%) ( 92 ). Data show that weekly alendronate (70 mg) is effective and well tolerated, and this dosage has become the standard of care for use of this oral bisphosphonate. Alendronate is suitable for weekly dosing because of its long skeletal retention. It is often the first line treatment that is cost-effective as a generic preparation. Long-term treatment with alendronate has beneficial effects on BMD. Bone et al. showed that spine BMD continued to rise in small increments during 10 years of treatment. Femoral neck and trochanter BMD increased during the first three years and then remained stable ( 93 , 94 ). In an extension of FIT, the FIT Long-term Extension (FLEX) trial, 1099 women who
