Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


BMD increased during the first three years and then remained stable ( 93 , 94 ). In an extension of FIT, the FIT Long-term Extension (FLEX) trial, 1099 women who had received alendronate (5 mg daily for two years and 10 mg daily thereafter) were again randomized to receive either 5 or 10 mg alendronate daily or placebo for five more years. With a pooled analysis of the alendronate doses, after five years, the alendronate-treated subjects had significantly better BMD changes at the total hip, femoral neck, lumbar spine, total body, and forearm. These changes included less loss of BMD at the total hip (placebo 3.38% decrease, pooled alendronate 1.02% decrease) and more gain in BMD at the lumbar spine (placebo 1.52% increase, pooled alendronate 5.26% increase). Subjects on placebo had increases in bone turnover markers compared with alendronate users. Alendronate users had lower risk of clinically recognized vertebral fractures, but the cumulative risk of nonvertebral fractures was not significantly different between the alendronate-treated women and those who received placebo. The authors concluded that for many women the discontinuation of alendronate for up to five years did not appear to significantly increase fracture risk, but women at high risk of vertebral fractures with a history of spinal fracture and a BMD T-score of -2 or less as well as those with osteoporosis according to BMD testing (T-score less than -2.5) after 5 years of treatment may benefit from continued alendronate use ( 95 , 96 ). This trial has limitations because patients with severe osteoporosis were excluded from enrollment, while those with osteopenia were included. There was an uncontrolled phase between FIT completion and FLEX enrollment. There was also a high dropout rate, limiting statistical power ( 97 ). As summarized below in the section on a bisphosphonate holiday, with these limitations, risk of fracture versus benefit of continuing treatment should be individualized. RISEDRONATE Risedronate increases BMD and decreases fracture risk among postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. Harris et al. reported data on 2,458 postmenopausal women with established osteoporosis (subjects had either two or more vertebral fractures or one vertebral fracture and lumbar spine T score of -2 or less) and who were randomized to risedronate (5 mg daily) or placebo. Over three years, risedronate increased lumbar spine BMD by 5.4% and femoral neck BMD by 1.6%. Risedronate decreased the risk of new vertebral fractures by 41% and decreased the risk
