Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


Over three years, risedronate increased lumbar spine BMD by 5.4% and femoral neck BMD by 1.6%. Risedronate decreased the risk of new vertebral fractures by 41% and decreased the risk of non-vertebral fractures by 39% at three years ( 98 ). Reginster et al. showed in osteoporotic women that risedronate reduced spine fractures within the first year of treatment ( 99 ). Risedronate therapy also reduces fracture risk in men ( 100 ), and is effective in the prevention and treatment of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis in men and women ( 101 ). Weekly risedronate (35 mg) preparation used clinically is effective and well tolerated ( 102-104 ). Brown et al. randomized 1,468 women to daily or weekly risedronate. The increase in lumbar spine BMD at one year was similar between groups. Weekly risedronate was well tolerated, and the occurrence of adverse events was similar in daily and weekly treatment groups ( 102 ). A weekly preparation of risedronate that can be taken after breakfast is also available for clinical use. Monthly dosing of risedronate is available (150 mg once a month). Both monthly dosing regimens were shown to be non-inferior in efficacy and safety to the 5 mg daily regimen at one year ( 105 , 106 ). Thus, monthly risedronate provides alternative regimen for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis. A formulation that can be taken with food is also available. ZOLEDRONIC ACID Zoledronic acid, an intravenous bisphosphonate, has been FDA approved for years for the treatment of hypercalcemia of malignancy, multiple myeloma, and bone metastases from solid tumors. In August 2007, zoledronic acid (Reclast®) became the second intravenous bisphosphonate after ibandronate (Boniva®) to be FDA approved for treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis. It is considerably more potent than other available bisphosphonates. Thus, small doses and longer dosing intervals may be used ( 107 ). Reid et al. showed that zoledronic acid (4 mg annually) increases BMD and decreases markers of bone turnover in postmenopausal women. In the Health Outcomes and Reduced Incidence with Zoledronic Acid Once Yearly (HORIZON) study, a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of 7765 post-menopausal women with osteoporosis were randomly assigned to receive a single 15-minute infusion of 5 mg of zoledronic acid or placebo at baseline, at 12 months, and at 24 months. The patients were followed over 36 months. In addition to positive effects on BMD and reduction in bone turnover biomarkers, treatment with zoledronic acid was
