Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


months, and at 24 months. The patients were followed over 36 months. In addition to positive effects on BMD and reduction in bone turnover biomarkers, treatment with zoledronic acid was associated with 70% RRR in morphogenic vertebral fractures and 41% RRR in hip fractures compared with placebo ( 108 ). Nonvertebral fractures, clinical fractures, and clinical vertebral fractures were reduced by 25%, 33%, and 77%, respectively. While adverse events, including change in renal function, were similar in both study groups, serious atrial fibrillation (AF) occurred slightly more frequently in the zoledronic acid group in the 3-year but not the 6-year data ( 108 ). Further analysis of the trial data and possible risk factors for rare AF are presented below under Adverse Effects ( 109 ). In a study in 9355 women randomized to zoledronic acid versus placebo, zoledronic acid resulted in an early reduction in clinical fractures at one year that persisted for 3 years ( 110 ). Zoledronic acid is also effective in decreasing fracture risk in men ( 111 ). In Horizon Recurrent Fracture trial, a double-blind, placebo-controlled study in adults with hip fractures, zoledronic acid versus placebo administered two weeks to 90 days post-surgical repair resulted in a 35% reduction in new clinical fractures and a 28% reduction in mortality ( 112 ). In a sub-sample analysis of this multi-national study, vitamin D deficiency was common and the median 25(OH)D level was only 14.7 ng/ml in these hip fracture study participants ( 113 ). Most study participants received 50,000 to 125,000 IU vitamin D at least two weeks prior to the zoledronic acid infusion. Once yearly infusion of zoledronic acid administered 2 weeks to 3 months after a hip fracture and after vitamin D supplementation, therefore, produced a decrease in clinical fractures and evidence of improved survival. Zoledronic acid is only FDA-approved therapy to reduce clinical fracture risk in adults with new hip fractures and provides skeletal protection for hip fracture patients as a once a year dosing. Zoledronic acid administered every 18 months for 6 years also decreased fracture incidence in women with low bone mass ( 197 ) OTHER BISPHOSPHONATES Ibandronate (oral and IV) is FDA-approved for the prevention and treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis. In the larger clinical trial, it increased bone density and decreased vertebral fractures with both an oral daily regimen (2.5 mg daily) and an intermittent regimen (20 mg every other
