Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


In the larger clinical trial, it increased bone density and decreased vertebral fractures with both an oral daily regimen (2.5 mg daily) and an intermittent regimen (20 mg every other day for 12 doses every three months, 150 mg monthly) without reduction in hip fractures ( 114-116 ). Thus, unlike other bisphosphonates, ibandronate was not effective in decreasing non-spine fractures. Pamidronate is not FDA approved for use in osteoporosis; however, it is occasionally used “off-label” for patients in patients with esophageal abnormalities (i.e., stricture or achalasia), organ transplants, or osteogenesis imperfecta. In adults, usually 30 to 60 mg is infused over two to four hours every three months. Pamidronate has been shown to increase BMD, but no fracture data are available ( 117-121 ). Adverse Effects GI EFFECTS In general, the bisphosphonates are safe medications. Studies showing the long-term safety of alendronate, risedronate, and zoledronic acid are available for up to 10, 7, and 6 years respectively. Oral bisphosphonates are associated with some GI symptoms, and rare cases of severe esophagitis have been reported with alendronate, although reports are not consistent. However, Lanza et al. carried out a placebo-controlled endoscopic study in 277 subjects and found that the incidence of upper GI symptoms and endoscopic lesions was similar in the placebo and weekly alendronate groups ( 122 ). While in controlled trials the incidence of GI adverse effects did not differ in alendronate versus placebo groups, in clinical practice some patients discontinue bisphosphonates because of adverse GI experiences. Because of the risk of esophagitis, alendronate is contraindicated for patients with esophageal abnormalities that delay esophageal emptying such as stricture or achalasia, and both alendronate and risedronate should not be used in patients who are unable to stand or sit upright for at least 30 minutes after drug administration because of increased risk of adverse esophageal effects. ATYPICAL FEMUR FRACTURES There has been concern over long-term bisphosphonate use and the reported risk of atypical femur fractures (AFF). AFF are thought to be stress or insufficiency fractures, caused by anti-resorptive-mediated suppression of intracortical remodeling, though the definite pathogenesis remains unclear. The absolute risk of AFF for patients taking bisphosphonates ranges from 3.2 to 50 per 100,000 person-years, but the risk with long-term bisphosphonate use is higher, ~100 per 100,000 person-years. The Second Task Force of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research (ASBMR) has defined AFF for case recognition. AFF must
