Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


bisphosphonate use is higher, ~100 per 100,000 person-years. The Second Task Force of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research (ASBMR) has defined AFF for case recognition. AFF must be located along the femoral diaphysis distal to the lesser trochanter and proximal to the supracondylar flare, and satisfy 4/5 major features: 1) the fracture is associated with minimal or no trauma, 2) the fracture line originates at the lateral cortex and is substantially transverse in its orientation (but can also be oblique as it progresses medially), 3) a complex fracture extends through both cortices and may have medial spike; or an incomplete fracture involves the lateral cortex, 4) the fracture is noncomminuted or minimally comminuted, and/or 5) localized periosteal or endosteal thickening of the lateral cortex is present at the fracture site (“beaking” or “flaring”). Other common features (minor features) include generalized increase in thickness of the femoral diaphyses, prodromal symptom of dull or aching pain in the groin or thigh, bilateral incomplete or complete femoral diaphysis fractures, and delayed fracture healing, though these are not required for case definition. Risk factors include use of bisphosphonates for >3-5 years, low vitamin D levels, and use of glucocorticoids ( 123 ). The consensus has been that the number of fractures prevented far exceeds the number of AFF occurring as a result of bisphosphonate therapy, though further data is needed to guide decision-making around AFF risk. Management of AFF recommended by the ASBMR task force includes surgical management with intramedullary fixation nailing or plating if the fracture is complete or incomplete accompanied by pain, with discontinuation of anti-resorptives, and adequate calcium and vitamin D intake. If the fracture is incomplete and pain is minimal, a trial of conservative management may be considered with use of crutches for 2-3 months, though there is a risk of progression to complete fracture with this method. In addition, obtaining X-ray imaging of the contralateral femur is recommended by the FDA, as ~28% of AFF also affect the contralateral leg. AFF noted on X-ray imaging should be followed by higher-order imaging, such as MRI or CT ( 123 ). Lastly, teriparatide may be considered in those who do not heal with other therapy ( 124 ). OSTEONECROSIS OF THE JAW Bisphosphonate-associated osteonecrosis of the jaws (ONJ) has also drawn attention even though this is a rare occurrence in patients treated with antiresorptive therapies. The International Task
