Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


OSTEONECROSIS OF THE JAW Bisphosphonate-associated osteonecrosis of the jaws (ONJ) has also drawn attention even though this is a rare occurrence in patients treated with antiresorptive therapies. The International Task Force on Osteonecrosis of the Jaw defines ONJ as exposed bone in the maxillofacial region that does not heal within 8 weeks after identification by a health care provider, with prior exposure to an antiresorptive agent, and no history of radiation to the craniofacial region ( 125 ). It has been hypothesized that ONJ is the result of bone remodeling suppression combined with additional factors such as dental intervention or infection ( 126 ). Although very rare, it is more common after dental procedures such as tooth extraction. In 2005, the FDA requested that all oral and IV bisphosphonates include a class “precaution” labeling for ONJ. There have been no cases reported in randomized, placebo-controlled trials of alendronate, risedronate, or ibandronate. However, in a 2006 Medline review, 368 published cases were found, 94% of which involved patients receiving intravenous bisphosphonates, 85% of which involved patients with multiple myeloma or metastatic cancer. Only 4% of patients had osteoporosis and data suggests a time- and dose-dependent effect. 60% of reported cases of ONJ occurred after dentoalveolar surgery for infections (tooth extractions), and the remaining 40% were likely related to infection, denture trauma, or other oral trauma ( 127 ). Based on both published and unpublished data, the risk of ONJ associated with oral bisphosphonate treatment for osteoporosis is low, estimated between one in 10,000 and less than one in 100,000 patient-treatment years ( 128 ). Some experts have suggested stopping bisphosphonates during a time before and after-invasive dental procedures. The American Dental Association 2011 Recommendations indicate that for patients receiving bisphosphonate therapy, the risk of developing osteonecrosis of the jaw is low and that for dental care they do not currently recommend stopping bisphosphonates ( 129 , 130 ). The American Dental Association does recommend maintenance of good dental hygiene and routine dental care. The International Task Force on Osteonecrosis of the Jaw in 2015 reported an incidence of ONJ of 0.001% to 0.01% in osteoporosis patients, which is slightly higher than the incidence in the general population (<0.001%). Risk factors for ONJ included glucocorticoid use, maxillary or mandibular bone surgery, poor oral hygiene, chronic inflammation, diabetes mellitus, ill-fitting dentures, as well as other drugs such as antiangiogenic agents. Incidence is greater
