Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


ONJ included glucocorticoid use, maxillary or mandibular bone surgery, poor oral hygiene, chronic inflammation, diabetes mellitus, ill-fitting dentures, as well as other drugs such as antiangiogenic agents. Incidence is greater in the oncology population (1-15%), who are receiving significantly more frequent and higher doses of anti-resorptives than the osteoporotic population. The task force recommended prevention of ONJ by eliminating or stabilizing oral disease prior to initiation of antiresorptive therapy, and considering the withholding of antiresorptive therapy in those at high risk for ONJ, such as cancer patients receiving bisphosphonates or denosumab and following extensive oral surgery until the surgical site heals with mature mucosal coverage ( 125 ). In a 2022 update by the American Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons’ Position Paper on Medication-Related Osteonecrosis of the Jaws (MRONJ), the risk of MRONJ in osteoporotic patients treated with bisphosphonates was 0.02 to 0.05 percent, compared to 0 to 0.02 percent with placebo ( 198 ). ATRIAL FIBRILLATION In the HORIZON trial, serious atrial fibrillation (AF) was seen more frequently in patients who received IV zoledronic acid (50 subjects, 1.5%) than in those who received placebo (20 subjects 0.5%) ( 108 ). Significant risk factors were active tachyarrhythmia, congestive heart failure, previous bisphosphonate use, and advanced age ( 109 ). In a review of the results from FIT, there were more serious AF cases in the alendronate group (N=47 subjects, 1.5%) than in the placebo group (N=31 subjects, 1.0%), but these differences were not significant ( 131 ). These findings raised concern about a risk of AF with bisphosphonate use. In a case-control study published in 2008, researchers found more AF subjects than controls had ever used alendronate (n=47, 6.5% versus n=40, 4.1%) ( 132 ). A review of data from multiple trials did not find an association between risedronate use and AF ( 133 ). It is unclear how bisphosphonates may increase the risk of AF. Hypotheses include the release of inflammatory cytokines when IV bisphosphonates are administered, calcium shifts that can occur with IV and potent oral bisphosphonates, and relative binding affinity of the various bisphosphonates to bone. Both cytokines and calcium shifts may increase the risk of AF. The FDA released a review of spontaneous post-marketing reports of AF associated with oral and IV bisphosphonates and did not identify a risk of AF ( 134 , 135 ). The FDA continues to monitor such reports. Post-Hip Fracture
