Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


of AF associated with oral and IV bisphosphonates and did not identify a risk of AF ( 134 , 135 ). The FDA continues to monitor such reports. Post-Hip Fracture Care Given the high rates of morbidity and mortality, particularly within the first-year post-fracture, hip fractures are the most serious of the osteoporotic fractures. There is a high prevalence of low vitamin D levels among hip fracture patients that warrants correction at the time of fracture ( 30 , 31 ). Nationally and internationally there is a large gap in fracture care and only 20% of fracture patients are evaluated and treated for their underlying osteoporosis. A fracture liaison service that identifies patients with fractures and initiates bone density testing and treatment has been very effective in reducing costs and improving post-fracture care ( 136-139 ). At Brigham and Women’s Hospital (BWH) Endocrinologists and members of the Department of Orthopedic Surgery have worked together since 2004 to implement a hospital-based approach to advance fracture care and reverse the high prevalence of vitamin D deficiency among hip fracture patient using the electronic health record ( 140 ). This inter-disciplinary fracture pathway for hip fracture patients called the Brigham Fracture Intervention Team Initiative or “B-Fit ® ” includes testing of 25(OH)D, calcium, and creatinine levels on admission to the hospital, administration of one dose of 50,000 units of vitamin D, daily supplemental calcium and vitamin D, and an Endocrinology evaluation. Outpatient care coordination between endocrinologists and Orthopedic Surgeons include assessment for secondary causes of osteoporosis, bone density testing, and pharmacological intervention to reduce subsequent fractures (7, 140-142 ). Many national organizations are seeking to bring together stakeholders and improve patient care so patients with fragility fractures are evaluated and treated for their underlying osteoporosis ( 7 ). Other Precautions Bisphosphonates are excreted by the kidneys and should not be used for patients with severe renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance < 35ml/min, Creatinine clearance <30 ml/min for Ibandronate). Studies in cancer patients, in whom cumulative doses are several-fold higher than in osteoporosis patients, show that age, concomitant non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug use, prior pamidronate use, history of hypercalcemia, renal disease, hypertension, and smoking are risk factors for renal failure ( 143 , 144 ). Approximately 20% to 30% of subjects treated initially with intravenous administration of pamidronate or zoledronic acid ( 108 , 145 ) may develop an acute-phase reactions (e.g. fever, malaise, myalgia), which
