Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


20% to 30% of subjects treated initially with intravenous administration of pamidronate or zoledronic acid ( 108 , 145 ) may develop an acute-phase reactions (e.g. fever, malaise, myalgia), which is typically less severe with subsequent infusions. Patients should be hydrated and often are premedicated with acetaminophen; symptoms are usually mild and transient. Hypocalcemia may occur, but this is usually mild and asymptomatic. To avert marked hypocalcemia, it is important to ensure that the patient is vitamin D sufficient, which according to the authors’ practices, can best be achieved by checking a 25-hydroxy vitamin D level prior to each infusion. In addition, calcium and creatinine levels should be tested before each intravenous bisphosphonate treatment. Bisphosphonate Holiday Bisphosphonates have robust effects on fracture reduction when used for 3-5 years. There are concerns about the long-term use. According to the 2011 FDA review as summarized in the New England Journal of Medicine ( 146 ) there is no global regulatory restriction on duration of use. Post-hoc analyses of data from the FIT and FLEX studies for alendronate (up to 10 years of alendronate therapy) and the randomized extension to the HORIZON-Pivotal Fracture Trial (up to 6 years of zoledronic acid therapy) provide some guidance in these important clinical decisions ( 96 , 147 ). According to the available data, alendronate and zoledronic acid may be discontinued in patients at low risk of fracture after 5 or 3 years of therapy, respectively. In the FLEX trial, continuation of alendronate to 10 years duration of therapy did reduce non-vertebral fractures in those with FN T-scores <-2.5 assessed at year 5, but not in those with T-scores >-2.0 at year 5 ( 96 ). In the HORIZON extension trial, stopping Zoledronic acid after 3 years duration of therapy did not significantly increase the risk of subsequent fracture in those with T-score >-2.5, no recent fractures, and no greater than 1 risk factor( 148 ). The subgroups of patients who might benefit from continued therapy without holiday at 5 (oral) or 3 (IV) years of therapy include those with T-score <-2.5 at the hip, recent fracture on therapy, and prevalent spine fractures. Otherwise, annual evaluation while on holiday to assess each individuals fracture risk is recommended, in order to decide when to resume therapy ( 149 ). High risk individuals may benefit from use of an alternative treatment such as teriparatide or in some instances, raloxifene,
