Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


in order to decide when to resume therapy ( 149 ). High risk individuals may benefit from use of an alternative treatment such as teriparatide or in some instances, raloxifene, during the time of bisphosphonate holiday. Ongoing evaluation of patients on a bisphosphonate holiday is important to reduce the risk of subsequent fractures ( 95 , 96 , 146 , 147 , 150 ). The ASBMR Task Force for managing osteoporosis in patients on long-term bisphosphonate therapy included consideration of continuing therapy in any patients with history of hip, spine, or multiple other osteoporosis fractures before or during therapy, those with hip BMD T-score<=2.5 after treatment, or high fracture risk ( 151 ). However, these approaches do not replace clinical judgment. Drug Administration Oral bisphosphonates should be taken in the morning with water on an empty stomach. Because oral bisphosphonates are poorly absorbed, patients should wait at least 30 minutes before ingesting other beverages, food, or medications. To help patients avoid esophageal irritation, they are instructed to swallow oral bisphosphonates with six to eight ounces of water and to remain upright for at least 30 minutes and until they have had their first meal of the day ( 152 ). Intravenous preparations must be infused slowly to avoid renal toxicity. When choosing an oral bisphosphonate and in the absence of contraindications, alendronate is often selected as initial therapy because of its efficacy in reduction of spine and non-spine fractures and its availability as a low cost, generic preparation. In addition to alendronate, risedronate has been on the market for more than 10 years and has favorable safety profiles when used in the indicated populations. While oral ibandronate is popular for its monthly dosing schedule, ibandronate reduces the incidence of spine but not non-spine fractures. In addition, ibandronate’s IV dosing is more expensive and requires more frequent dosing than the once-yearly, zoledronic acid. Thus, it has a limited role in osteoporosis treatment. In patients who are unable to comply with the administration requirements of the oral agents, and in those who experience intolerable GI effects, intravenous zoledronic acid is an effective therapy to reduce spine and non-spine fractures. Like alendronate and risedronate, it reduces the incidence of vertebral and nonvertebral fractures. Zoledronic acid (5 mg infusion once a year) should also be considered in patients with a recent hip fracture after two weeks to 90 days. A post-hoc analysis suggested a
