Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


Zoledronic acid (5 mg infusion once a year) should also be considered in patients with a recent hip fracture after two weeks to 90 days. A post-hoc analysis suggested a superior bone density response when zoledronic acid was administered 4-6 weeks after a hip fracture than at the earlier time points ( 153 ). Vitamin D deficiency should be optimally corrected prior to use of zoledronic acid. DENOSUMAB Denosumab is the first FDA-approved human monoclonal antibody that binds to the receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa B ligand (RANKL), an important regulator of bone remodeling. RANKL is secreted by osteoblast precursors and binds to its receptor, RANK, located on osteoclasts. Osteoprotegrin is an endogenous cytokine and decoy receptor that binds RANKL and inhibits osteoclast activation ( 154 ). The binding of RANKL to RANK promotes osteoclast proliferation, differentiation, activation, and survival. Denosumab inhibits RANKL and osteoclastogenesis and markedly reduces bone resorption. Fracture Data Denosumab is administered for osteoporosis treatment as a subcutaneous injection of 60 mg every 6 months. In its pivotal phase III randomized placebo-controlled study of 7868 osteoporotic women ages 60-90 years (FREEDOM), denosumab compared with placebo given twice yearly for 3 years was associated with a relative decrease in the risk of vertebral, hip, and nonvertebral fractures by 68%, 40%, and 20% respectively ( 155 ). In the extension of this trial, denosumab use for up to 10 years was associated with cumulative BMD gains of 21.7% at the lumbar spine and 9.2% at the total hip. Persistent reductions of bone turnover markers and fracture incidence was also noted, with a positive safety profile with up to 10 years of continued use ( 199 ). Drug Administration Denosumab may have advantages over current osteoporosis therapies: infrequent dosing (every six months), and rapid, effective, but reversible antiresorptive activity; drug adherence is, however, important to prevent the increase in bone turnover markers after 6 months of therapy. Adverse Effects Adverse effects of densoumab include hypocalcemia, nausea, musculoskeletal pain, serious skin infections (small risk), infections, dermatologic reactions, and cystitis. Infection risk has been a concern based on RANKL inhibition of non-skeletal immune cells causing theoretical immune suppression. The initial FREEDOM trial showed slightly higher infection rates (3 cases in densoumab arm vs. 0 cases in placebo arm of endocarditis, 0.4% risk in densoumab arm vs. <0.1% in placebo arm of severe skin events) while the extension trial showed no increased
