Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


arm vs. 0 cases in placebo arm of endocarditis, 0.4% risk in densoumab arm vs. <0.1% in placebo arm of severe skin events) while the extension trial showed no increased risk of infection compared to placebo. Furthermore, a meta-analysis failed to show an increased risk of serious infections with denosumab use ( 157 ). Given the unclear infection risk, its use in immunocompromised patients should be cautious. In addition, very rare osteonecrosis of the jaw and atypical femur fractures have occurred with denosumab use (similar to bisphosphonates). Stopping denosumab therapy has been shown to result in bone loss and, in some instances, spine fractures ( 200 ). Therefore, unlike bisphosphonates, a treatment holiday is not recommended. The FDA recommends initiation of antiresorptive therapy and a number of treatment regimens are undergoing evaluation in an effort to prevent this bone loss. PARATHYROID HORMONE Anabolic Action on Bone Animal studies show that PTH is capable of both anabolic and catabolic actions on bone. PTH stimulates both bone formation and bone resorption; the net effect on BMD depends on the balance between these two processes ( 160 ). A continuous infusion of PTH increases both formation and resorption and leads to bone breakdown ( 160 , 161 ). However, intermittent exposure preferentially increases formation, thereby producing an anabolic effect on bone ( 160 , 162 , 163 ). Therefore, PTH can increase or decrease BMD depending on the pattern of exposure. Dosing PTH in a manner leading to stimulation of bone formation before causing bone resorption has become known as maximizing the “anabolic window” of PTH ( 164 ). Cellular Mechanisms PTH acts directly on osteoblasts and cells of the osteoblast lineage. PTH promotes differentiation of pre-osteoblasts to osteoblasts ( 161 ) and inhibits osteoblast apoptosis, thereby increasing the number of active osteoblasts ( 165 ). Furthermore, PTH triggers the production of several growth factors in bone cells, including insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) ( 161 , 166 ). Teriparatide In 2002, the FDA approved teriparatide (Forteo™), injectable recombinant human PTH ( 1 - 34 ), for the treatment of men and postmenopausal women with osteoporosis who are at high risk for fracture (see Table 5 ). The biologically active fragment PTH ( 1 - 34 ) has properties similar to the full-length molecule PTH ( 1 - 84 ), which is approved for use in Europe. Antiresorptive agents, such as bisphosphonates, increase
