Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


by 4.18%. New vertebral fracture incidence was 0.6% with abaloparatide versus 4.2% with placebo (86% relative risk reduction, p<0.001). There was a 43% relative risk reduction of non-vertebral fracture with abaloparatide, which just met statistical significance, P=0.049. Combination Therapy of Teriparatide and Bisphosphonates or Denosumab The effects of concurrent or sequential therapy with PTH and antiresorptive agents have been studied. Black et al. compared the effects of PTH ( 1 - 84 ), alendronate, or both in combination in postmenopausal women ( 168 ). At one year, spine DXA had increased in all three groups. There was no difference in spine DXA between the PTH group and the combination group. However, the PTH group had a significantly greater increase in volumetric BMD of the spine on quantitative CT than the alendronate and combination groups. Finkelstein et al. also carried out a study in men ( 169 ). PTH ( 1 - 34 ) was started at 6 months, and all three groups were followed for 30 months. Spine BMD as measured by both DXA and quantitative CT increased to a greater degree in the PTH group than in the alendronate and combination groups. Thus, these studies show no evidence of synergy between PTH and alendronate. Furthermore, alendronate administered prior to teriparatide may impair the anabolic activity of PTH. It is hypothesized that PTH is less effective when bone turnover is suppressed. While concurrent treatment with PTH and alendronate does not appear to be additive, bisphosphonate therapy initiated immediately upon completion of PTH course is beneficial. Rittmaster et al. demonstrated that PTH followed by alendronate produces progressive increases in BMD. In this study, 66 postmenopausal women were randomized to either 50 µg of recombinant human PTH ( 1 - 84 ) daily or placebo for the first year, and then all subjects were treated with alendronate on an open label extension for the second year. During the first year, the PTH group gained 4.3% BMD at the lumbar spine while the placebo group gained 1.3%. During the second year, the PTH group gained 6.3% BMD at the lumbar spine while the placebo group gained 5.7%. Thus, subjects previously treated with PTH continued to gain BMD with subsequent alendronate therapy ( 158 ). Black et al. extended their trial mentioned above ( 168 ). Post-menopausal women who had received PTH ( 1 - 84 ) in year one were randomly assigned to
