Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


). Black et al. extended their trial mentioned above ( 168 ). Post-menopausal women who had received PTH ( 1 - 84 ) in year one were randomly assigned to an additional year of placebo (n = 60) or alendronate (n = 59). Over two years, alendronate after PTH ( 1 - 84 ) led to significant increases in BMD compared to placebo after PTH ( 1 - 84 ), most notable at trabecular bone areas of the spine as assessed by quantitative CT [31% increase in alendronate after PTH ( 1 - 84 ) group versus14% increase in placebo after alendronate group]. Significant BMD loss was seen in year two in the placebo after PTH ( 1 - 84 )group ( 170 ). Kurland et al. reported similar findings in men ( 171 ). Twenty-one men were followed for up to two years after discontinuing PTH ( 1 - 34 ). Those who were treated with a bisphosphonate immediately upon completion of the PTH gained an additional 8.9% BMD at the lumbar spine at two years, while the men who did not go on bisphosphonate therapy lost 3.7% BMD at the lumbar spine at one year. These studies support the immediate use of bisphosphonates upon completion of the recommended 24-month course of PTH therapy to consolidate the increases in bone density. The Denosumab and Teriparatide Administration (DATA) trial investigated the combination of denosumab and teriparatide vs. monotherapy for 2 years. Combination therapy of daily teriparatide and denosumab every 6 months showed increases in spine and hip bone density greater than either drug alone ( 172 ).In the absence of fracture outcomes, the role of combination teriparatide and denosumab therapy in osteoporosis remains to be determined, but this regimen may be a therapeutic option in patients with severe osteoporosis or in those who have failed conventional therapy. In the DATA-Switch study, an extension of the DATA trial, subjects who were on denosumab only were switched to teriparatide, and those on teriparatide only were switch to denosumab; the former group were found to have bone loss, whereas the latter group have continued BMD increase ( 173 ). This may indicate that the choice of initial and subsequent osteoporosis treatment is an important consideration. In an overlap study of teriparatide with alendronate added to teriparatide after 9 months, found a greater increase in BMD with overlap compared to teriparatide alone ( 174
