Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


important consideration. In an overlap study of teriparatide with alendronate added to teriparatide after 9 months, found a greater increase in BMD with overlap compared to teriparatide alone ( 174 ). These findings may be due to a “reopening” of the anabolic window described with teriparatide use. Of note, fracture data is not available. Adverse Effects In general, teriparatide and abaloparatide, injections are well tolerated and have been safely used for a decade ( 175 ). PTH is cleared from the circulation within four hours of subcutaneous administration. A daily injection is necessary and transient redness at the injection site has been noted. Headache and nausea occur in less than 10% of subjects receiving a daily dose of teriparatide 20 µg. Mild, early, transient hypercalcemia can occur, but severe hypercalcemia is rare. Prior to starting a PTH or PTH-rp analog, it is suggested to obtain serum calcium, alkaline phosphatase, parathyroid hormone, 25-hydroxyvitamin D, and creatinine levels. Routine monitoring of serum calcium levels while on PTH or PTH-rp is not recommended by the manufacturer, though may be considered. Increases in urinary calcium (by 30 mg per day) and serum uric acid concentrations (by 13%) are seen but do not appear to have clinical consequences. Fisher 344 rats treated with nearly life-long daily teriparatide or abaloparatide have an increased risk of osteosarcoma. Upon approval of teriparatide in 2002, the FDA placed a black box warning about osteosarcoma in rodents treated with teriparatide and the manufacturer has warned against using teriparatide in the following settings: Paget's disease or unexplained elevations of alkaline phosphatase, open epiphyses in children or young adults, bone metastases, prior radiation therapy involving the skeleton, metabolic bone disease other than osteoporosis, and hypercalcemia. As summarized by Cipriani et al in 2013, there have been 3 reported cases of osteosarcoma in adults treated with PTH ( 1 - 34 ), which does not appear to be greater than the prevalence of osteosarcoma in the population ( 175 ). In the Osteosarcoma Surveillance Study, a 15-year surveillance study with 7 years of follow-up, there has not been evidence of a causal relationship between use of teriparatide and risk of osteosarcoma in humans. Among the 1448 cases of osteosarcoma, no patient in this study had been previously treated with teriparatide ( 176 ). In 2021, the FDA removed the black box warning for teriparatide based on 18 years of post-marketing surveillance using case-finding
