Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


study had been previously treated with teriparatide ( 176 ). In 2021, the FDA removed the black box warning for teriparatide based on 18 years of post-marketing surveillance using case-finding studies, which ruled out any but a small potential increase in risk of osteosarcoma in humans with the drug. The FDA no longer limits the lifetime use to a total of 2 years and longer use can be considered in patients at high fracture risk. The black box warning was also removed for abaloparatide, however, use is limited to 2 years in patient’s lifetime until more data is available. Use of teriparatide and abaloparatide, however, should be avoided in patients at risk for osteosarcoma (e.g., younger patients with open epiphyses or those with a history of skeletal malignancies, unexplained alkaline phosphatase, Paget’s disease of bone or radiation therapy to bone). Off Label Uses Teriparatide has been used off-label for numerous reasons, including improvement of bone healing with atypical femur fractures, and for treatment of vertebral fracture pain and fracture healing. More clinical data is needed in these areas. A systemic review of teriparatide use for healing of bisphosphonate-related AFF found anecdotal evidence of beneficial effects on fracture healing, noting the need for prospective data ( 124 ). In a small study of 34 patients with acute vertebral fractures given teriparatide vs. risedronate, those who received Teriparatide had lower rates of vertebral collapse, though had no significant difference in back pain scores ( 177 ). Drug Administration Teriparatide is supplied in a disposable pen device for subcutaneous injection into the thigh or abdomen. The pen requires refrigeration between uses. The recommended dosage is 20 µg once a day for two years, though its lifetime use may be extended beyond this in certain clinical situations (such as if a patient remains at or returns to a high risk of fracture). Abaloparatide is also supplied in a disposable pen device for subcutaneous injection into the thigh or abdomen, and can be stored at room temperature after first use for up to 30 days. The recommendation dosage is 80 µg once daily for no more than two years. ROMOSOZUMAB Romosozumab is a monoclonal antibody to sclerostin, a potent inhibitor of osteoblast differentiation and bone formation by way of Wnt signaling inhibition. Animal studies show that blocking the effect of sclerosin was associated with large increases in bone mass. In phase II trials, romosozumab administration
