Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


formation by way of Wnt signaling inhibition. Animal studies show that blocking the effect of sclerosin was associated with large increases in bone mass. In phase II trials, romosozumab administration shows increased BMD at the spine of 11.3%, as well as increased bone formation and decreased bone resorption ( 193 ). A dual effect of transiently increasing markers of bone formation (P1NP) while simultaneously lowering marker of bone resorption (CTX) was also demonstrated in the phase II trial. Fracture Data In its pivotal phase III trial ( 203 ) of 7180 women with osteoporosis, romosozumab reduced incidence of vertebral fractures compared to placebo by 73% at 12 months, and 75% at 24-months after transition to denosumab at 12 months. Non-vertebral fracture reduction was not demonstrated. In the ARCH trial ( 204 ), 4093 women with severe osteoporosis were randomized to Romosozumab or alendronate for 12 months. Incidence of new vertebral fractures was 4% with Romosozumab vs. 6.3% with alendronate (risk ratio 0.63, p=0.003). Changes in bone density were greater with Romosozumab compared to alendronate, 13.7% vs. 5% increase in lumbar BMD, and 6.2% vs. 2.8% increase in total hip BMD was demonstrated, respectively. In extension data, preservation of BMD accrual was achieved with transition to alendronate for up to 36 months based on trial duration. Adverse Effects Romosozumab has been associated with hypersensitivity reactions such as angioedema and urticaria. The most common side effects were arthralgia and headache (>5%). Cases of ONJ and AFF have been reported. Upon approval by the FDA in 2019, a black box warning was applied regarding a potential risk of heart attack, stroke, and cardiovascular death. In the ARCH trial, there was a higher rate of major adverse cardiac events (MACE), a composite endpoint of cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, and nonfatal stroke. However, in post-hoc pooled analysis by the TIMI Group of both FRAME and ARCH data, a significantly high rate of cardiovascular event was not demonstrated. The Endocrine Society advises that women at high risk for cardiovascular disease or stroke should not be considered romosozumab pending further studies on its cardiovascular risk ( 201 ). GLUCOCORTICOID-INDUCED OSTEOPOROSIS Glucocorticoid induced osteoporosis (GIO) affects the spine greater than other sites. The 2010 American College of Rheumatology (ACR) guidelines can be used to help clinicians determine appropriate therapeutic options in those on glucocorticoid therapy ( 181 ). Epidemiological data has consistently shown that those taking glucocorticoids
