Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


Rheumatology (ACR) guidelines can be used to help clinicians determine appropriate therapeutic options in those on glucocorticoid therapy ( 181 ). Epidemiological data has consistently shown that those taking glucocorticoids have fractures at higher T-scores. Glucocorticoids not only increase bone resorption, but also reduce bone formation. Thus, there are two important steps for targeted intervention—bisphosphonates and teriparatide, respectively. Rapid bone loss is prevalent in the first 6-12 months of glucocorticoid therapy; however, the increased fracture risk is already present within 3 months of initiating glucocorticoids. Thus, bone protection therapy should be started, at the onset, if the duration of glucocorticoids is anticipated to be 3 months or longer. For postmenopausal women and men over age 50, treatment for GIO is determined based on whether the patient’s risk for fracture—using FRAX® and clinical judgment—is low (<10%), moderate (10-20%), or high (>20%). For those taking prednisone dose >7.5 mg/day, the FDA has approved the following bisphosphonates—Risedronate, Alendronate, Zoledronate—and the anabolic agent, Teriparatide, for the treatment of GIO. In a 3-year randomized trial evaluating the prevention and treatment of GIO, teriparatide was statistically superior to alendronate in preventing BMD declines at the spine and hip ( 182 ). Table 5. Effects of FDA-Approved Osteoporosis Therapies on Fractures View in own window Most Common Dosage Fracture Risk Reduction FDA Indications* Alendronate 70 mg PO weekly Spine, non-spine, hip PMO Treatment and Prevention in women, Treatment of osteoporosis in men, GIO treatment. Ibandronate 150 mg PO monthly; 3 mg IV every 3 months Spine PMO Treatment and Prevention in women. Risedronate 35 mg PO weekly; 150 mg PO monthly Spine, non-spine, hip PMO Treatment and Prevention in women, Treatment of osteoporosis in men, GIO treatment. Zoledronic Acid (ZA) 5 mg IV / year (Treatment) 5 mg every other year (Prevention) Spine, non-spine, hip PMO Treatment and Prevention in women, Treatment of osteoporosis in men, GIO treatment RANKL inhibitor Denosumab 60 mg SC every 6 months Spine, non-Spine, hip PMO-Treatment in women and men at high fracture risk; PTH - Teriparatide (PTH 1-34) 20 mcg SC daily (for maximum of 2 years) Spine, non-Spine PMO and GIO Treatment in women and men at high risk of fracture PTH- Abaloparatide (PTH-rp 1-34) 80 mcg SC daily (for maximum of 2 years) Spine, non-spine PMO treatment in women at high risk of fracture Anti-Sclerostin Antibody- Romosozumab 210 mcg SC monthly (for maximum of 12 months) Spine, non-spine PMO
