Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


maximum of 2 years) Spine, non-spine PMO treatment in women at high risk of fracture Anti-Sclerostin Antibody- Romosozumab 210 mcg SC monthly (for maximum of 12 months) Spine, non-spine PMO treatment in women at high risk of fracture PMO: postmenopausal osteoporosis; GIO: Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis CONSIDERATIONS REGARDING SELECTION OF ANTI-FRACTURE TREATMENT When approaching a patient at high risk for fracture, several considerations may help guide the initial treatment selection. Anabolic agents (i.e., romosozumab, abaloparatide, or teriparatide) should be considered as first-line agents In patients deemed “very high risk” for fracture. This may include patients with very low T-scores <-3.0 at the lumbar spine or hip, recent fragility fracture, multiple risk factors for fractures or fractures while on approved osteoporosis therapy or intolerance to osteoporosis therapies. If anabolic treatment is contraindicated or not available for a patient, a parental anti-resorptive agent should be considered. Denosumab can also increase bone density and reduce fracture risk in women and men at high risk for fracture. Denosumab is FDA approved to treat glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis in men and women at high risk for fracture, in women at high fracture risk on adjuvant aromatase inhibitor therapy for breast cancer, and in men treated with androgen deprivation for prostate cancer. In patients with advanced chronic kidney disease, treatment options can be limited. Bisphosphonates are generally contraindicated in those with eGFR <30-35. Denosumab (Prolia) is the preferred agent for those with more advanced kidney disease, given lack of direct renal toxicity and renal metabolism compared to bisphosphonates. However, it is important to note that though denosumab has been shown to improve bone mineral density in those with advanced renal disease, there is little evidence of fracture reduction in this population. Since patients with CKD may have several different types of metabolic bone diseases including osteoporosis, use of denosumab should be approached with caution given the increased complexity of bone disease in these patients. It is important to note that when selecting an anabolic agent or denosumab, a plan for the next agent in their treatment sequence should be considered at the onset. Anabolic agents are approved for 1-2 years of use, thereafter their effects wane. At present use of teriparatide can be used for more than a total of 2 years in patients at high risk of fracture. Anti-resorptive agents should ideally be given after completion of a course of anabolic in order to prevent the bone loss that
