Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


2 years in patients at high risk of fracture. Anti-resorptive agents should ideally be given after completion of a course of anabolic in order to prevent the bone loss that occurs with discontinuation of these therapies. Regarding denosumab, this is approved for 5-10 years of continuous use, but at the point when denosumab is discontinued, it must be followed at the time of first missed dose or just after with an alternative anti-resorptive to prevent rapid rebound bone loss and spine fractures. Ongoing research is assessing different approaches to prevent the bone loss associated with the discontinuation of denosumab. In patients with intolerance or a renal contraindication to using bisphosphonates, the options for the treatment sequence must be taken into account and discussed with the patient as part of shared-decision making. Zoledronic acid is an appropriate first-line option for several different patient scenarios. As mentioned in the Zoledronic acid (ZA) section above, it is the optimal choice in patients post-hip fracture given the benefit in morbidity and mortality in this setting. ZA should also be considered in patients at high fracture risk who have upper gastrointestinal/esophageal disease, or significant malabsorption (i.e. post-gastric bypass surgery), as oral bisphosphonates may be associated with increased risk of GI intolerance or poor absorption and efficacy, respectively. In patients with compliance difficulties or major transportation concerns, zoledronic acid may also be optimal given its infrequent and flexible dosing (once yearly, though less frequently may also be appropriate in select patients). This is in contrast to denosumab, which requires strict adherence to an every 6 month schedule of injections in order to avoid the consequence of rebound bone loss if doses are missed or significantly delayed. Lastly, raloxifene may be considered in patients within 10 years of menopause, who are at high fracture risk at the spine, and high risk for breast cancer based on familial history. Otherwise, an oral bisphosphonate (e.g., alendronate or risedronate) or intravenous bisphosphonate or denosumab is preferred over raloxifene as these therapies have been shown to reduce spine and non-spine fractures. Clinical guides from the Bone Health and Osteoporosis Foundation ( 7 ), American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists/American College of Endocrinology ( 205 ), and the Endocrine Society ( 201 ) provide more detailed information on the management of osteoporosis in high- risk patients. TREATMENT GAP IN OSTEOPOROSIS THERAPY Despite having highly effective and well-tolerated available therapeutics for the treatment and
