Osteoporosis: Prevention and Treatment
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, osteoporosis, fracture, fractures, risk, women, treatment, patients, alendronate, vitamin, years, calcium, trial, postmenopausal


provide more detailed information on the management of osteoporosis in high- risk patients. TREATMENT GAP IN OSTEOPOROSIS THERAPY Despite having highly effective and well-tolerated available therapeutics for the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis, the rate of treatment of at-risk patients is much lower than desired. Based on prescription databases, bisphosphonate use declined by greater than 50% between 2008 and 2012 ( 183 ). In addition, the use of bisphosphonates among those with hip fractures declined from 15% in 2004 to only 3% in 2013, which is concerning given the high risk for future fracture in the setting of hip fracture ( 139 ). This decline in use temporally coincides with FDA warnings regarding potential risks related to anti-resorptive use, such as rare atypical femur fracture and osteonecrosis of the jaw, though the FDA has not restricted their use based on these risks ( 184 ). It is clear that many patients who would benefit from osteoporosis treatment are not receiving it, and this is a major concern for those who treat osteoporosis. Providers must be able to hold thorough and honest discussions with patients regarding the benefits and risks of osteoporosis treatment options in order for patients to accept and comply with needed treatment. CONCLUSION Osteoporosis is a major public health problem that affects approximately 50% of women and 25% of men aged 50 years and older and fractures increase exponentially with advancing age. At present, a number of safe and very effective osteoporosis therapies are available. Antiresorptive agents, such as the bisphosphonates, raloxifene, estrogen (not approved for treatment) and denosumab increase bone density and reduce fractures. Teriparatide, abaloparatide, and romosozumab are anabolic therapies and their treatment effects are best consolidated with an inhibitor of bone resorption such as a bisphosphonate or denosumab. A comprehensive review of the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis is summarized in the 2022 Bone Health and Osteoporosis Foundation Clinician’s Guide ( 7 ). A multifaceted approach including calcium and vitamin D, exercise, pharmacologic therapy, and fall prevention strategies can reduce the risk of fractures and promote independent healthy lives in older men and women. ACKOWLEDGEMENTS We wish to acknowledge Anjali Grover, MD, Kara Mikulec, MD and Kathryn E. Ackerman, MD, MPH, and thank them for their past contributions to the Endotext chapter and Jill MacLeod for her assistance in preparation of this review. REFERENCES 1. Cooper C, Campion G, Melton LJ 3rd. Hip fractures in
