Update on Pancreatic Transplantation in the Management of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: transplantation, pancreas, pubmed, diabetes, patients, transplant, diabetic, pancreas transplantation, kidney, ptx, type, recipients, renal, spk, graft


selected patients, islet cell transplantation may achieve insulin-independence rates similar to those of PTx ( 6 ). Unfortunately, PTx is not indicated in all insulin-dependent patients with diabetes because of the initial risk associated with surgery ( 7 ) and the need for life-long immunosuppression ( 8 ). In the appropriate recipient, however, PTx prolongs survival, especially when associated with kidney transplantation ( 9 , 10 ), restores near-normal metabolic control ( 11 - 14 ), improves the course of secondary complications of diabetes ( 11 , 12 , 15 - 26 ) and dramatically improves quality of life ( 27 ). PTx includes several approaches. In the most common scenario a pancreas allograft is transplanted simultaneously with a kidney in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes and end stage diabetic nephropathy (simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplantation; SPK). Grafts are typically obtained from a single deceased donor. Alternatively, a cadaver pancreas can be transplanted simultaneously with a living donor kidney (SCPLK) ( 28 ), or a segmental pancreas graft and a kidney graft can be donated from the same live donor (SLPK) ( 29 ). The pancreas can also be transplanted alone (PTA), in pre-uremic recipients, or after a successful kidney transplant (PAK), in post-uremic recipients. When the pancreas is transplanted without a kidney from the same donor, the graft is considered to be solitary because renal function cannot be used to anticipate rejection in the pancreas (so called “sentinel kidney” function) ( 30 ). In rare circumstances the pancreas is transplanted in the setting of multivisceral organ transplantation ( 31 ). This type of PTx is not considered in this review, since it is not performed in the typical recipient with diabetes to primarily reverse diabetes, but rather for technical reasons in the context of a multiorgan graft required to address specific, and rare, conditions requiring this extreme type of transplantation. THE BURDEN OF DIABETES Thanks to the availability of exogenous insulin therapy, Type 1 diabetes has changed from an immediately fatal disease to a chronic disease. Sub-optimal metabolic control, coupled with genetic predisposition ( 32 - 34 ), can lead to the development of severe secondary complications many years after the diagnosis of diabetes. These complications are associated with significant morbidity and reduce life expectancy of affected individuals. Patients with diabetes who have poor metabolic control despite intensive insulin therapy and/or who develop progressive secondary complications can benefit from PTx as near-physiologic
