Update on Pancreatic Transplantation in the Management of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: transplantation, pancreas, pubmed, diabetes, patients, transplant, diabetic, pancreas transplantation, kidney, ptx, type, recipients, renal, spk, graft


reduce life expectancy of affected individuals. Patients with diabetes who have poor metabolic control despite intensive insulin therapy and/or who develop progressive secondary complications can benefit from PTx as near-physiologic metabolism is re-established. These complications include: retinopathy, nephropathy, neuropathy, and cardiovascular disease. Diabetic nephropathy is the leading indication to PTx, as either SPK or PAK. Diabetes mellitus is a group of metabolic diseases characterized by hyperglycemia resulting from defects in insulin secretion, insulin action, or both ( 35 ). Diabetes mellitus can be classified into four types: type 1 (resulting from autoimmune destruction of beta-cells, and accounting for 5-10% of all cases), type 2 (caused by relative insulin deficiency in the setting of insulin resistance, typically associated with obesity, and representing some 90% of the cases), gestational diabetes (first diagnosed during pregnancy), and a heterogeneous group identified as “other specific types” ( 35 ). In nearly all countries diabetes has a high, and continuously growing, prevalence ( 36 , 37 ). In Western countries, these figures are mainly due to changes in life style, including diet high in saturated fats and decreased physical activity, eventually leading to obesity. Regarding type 1 diabetes, which accounts for most potential recipients of PTx, the prevalence of the disease in the United States is estimated to be 1,250,000 persons, with an annual incidence of 35,000 new cases ( 38 ). Diabetes causes significant morbidity and increases mortality in affected individuals ( 35 , 39 ). The risk of heart disease and stroke is increased 3 to 5-fold, and 50-70% of patients with diabetes die of these events. Fifteen years after the onset of diabetes, diabetic retinopathy is present in the majority of patients. Eventually, 20-30% of patients with diabetes will develop severe visual impairment over the years. Reduction in the incidence of diabetic nephropathy among patients with type 1 diabetes, by approximately 10%, was overcompensated by a 20% increase in the incidence of this complication in patients with type 2 diabetes, leading to a net increase of the prevalence of diabetic nephropathy among dialyzed patients and confirming diabetic nephropathy as the leading cause of end-stage renal failure ( 39 ). Incidence of end-stage renal disease in patients with diabetes is higher compared to the patients without diabetes, with a relative risk of 6.2 in the white population and 62.0 among Native Americans. Diabetic neuropathy, in its several forms, affects up to 50% of people
