Update on Pancreatic Transplantation in the Management of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: transplantation, pancreas, pubmed, diabetes, patients, transplant, diabetic, pancreas transplantation, kidney, ptx, type, recipients, renal, spk, graft


patients without diabetes, with a relative risk of 6.2 in the white population and 62.0 among Native Americans. Diabetic neuropathy, in its several forms, affects up to 50% of people with diabetes. In combination with reduced blood flow, neuropathy in the feet increases up to 25-fold the chance of foot ulcers and of several fold eventual limb amputation ( 40 ). TREATMENT GOALS IN DIABETES There is a large amount of evidence recommending that glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) should be maintained below 7.0% to reduce the incidence of microvascular disease ( 35 , 41 ). However, the effects of intensive diabetes management on the occurrence of macrovascular complications remains somewhat elusive, tending to be more evident in type 1 diabetes ( 42 ), as compared with type 2 diabetes ( 43 , 44 ). More stringent metabolic control (e.g., HbA1c 6.0–6.5%), when achieved without significant hypoglycemia or other adverse effects of treatment, can be preferred in patients with short disease duration, long life expectancy, and without significant cerebrovascular disease ( 41 ). On the other hand, less tight metabolic control (e.g., HbA1c 7.5–8.0%) can be accepted in patients at risk of severe hypoglycemia and/or with limited life expectancy, advanced vascular complications, or extensive comorbid conditions ( 41 ). INDICATIONS FOR PANCREAS TRANSPLANTATION AND CANDIDATE SELECTION PTx is performed to restore an endogenous source of servoregulated insulin production in beta-cell penic patients with diabetes. In technically successful PTx, restoration of beta-cell mass is consistently and reproducibly expected to induce insulin-independence, although at the price of significant surgical morbidity and life-long immunosuppression ( 2 , 45 ). In most patients with diabetes there is a clear advantage in receiving a pancreas graft, when also a kidney graft is needed to reverse end-stage renal failure. Moreover, PTx is indicated in selected patients with complicated and/or labile diabetes, when the risk of surgery and immunosuppression is surpassed by the ongoing risk of ineffective insulin therapy ( 2 , 45 , 46 ). Based on these principles, the prototype recipient for PTx is a patient with type 1 diabetes without detectable c-peptide, poor metabolic control and/or progressive secondary complications of diabetes. However, selected patients with type 2 diabetes with high insulin needs, low to mild insulin resistance, and non- or mildly obese, may achieve insulin-independence after PTx and enjoy results similar to those of patients with type 1 diabetes ( 2 , 45 , 46 ).
