Update on Pancreatic Transplantation in the Management of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: transplantation, pancreas, pubmed, diabetes, patients, transplant, diabetic, pancreas transplantation, kidney, ptx, type, recipients, renal, spk, graft


resistance, and non- or mildly obese, may achieve insulin-independence after PTx and enjoy results similar to those of patients with type 1 diabetes ( 2 , 45 , 46 ). Since failure of conventional, insulin-based, therapy is required to become eligible for PTx, most recipients have a 20- to 25-year history of diabetes. By this time, most recipients have developed end-stage nephropathy and also require a kidney transplant. Ideally, these patients should receive an SPK transplant because diabetic nephropathy is associated with high mortality rate, and 75% of insulin-dependent patients with diabetes do not survive longer than 5 years with dialysis ( 47 - 49 ). SPK improves patient survival versus either dialysis or deceased donor kidney transplantation ( 9 , 10 , 50 ). In fragile recipients deemed not suitable for SPK, renal transplantation from a live donor is an attractive possibility either as definitive treatment or as a bridge to PAK. Actually, live donor renal transplantation may be worthily pursed also in patients otherwise eligible for SPK because of organ shortage ( 2 , 45 , 46 ). SCPLK provides an additional transplant opportunity, since it still exploits the benefits of live donation for the kidney but does not require the sequential PAK to correct the diabetes. The main disadvantages of SCPLK are the fact that the pancreas is a solitary graft, and that live renal donation cannot be programmed as it has to be performed when the deceased donor pancreas graft becomes available. To do so, three surgical teams have to work simultaneously (one for the deceased donor, one for the live donor, and one for the transplant) making organization and coordination quite complex ( 28 ). Considering that correction of uremia is key in these patients ( 10 ), but that ideal donors suitable for SPK are becoming extremely rare ( 51 ), when a deceased donor is available a kidney alone transplantation (KTA) should be considered as a valid alternative to leaving the patient with end-stage renal disease while waiting for a SPK donor, who may never become actually available. After KTA, PAK could allow correction of diabetes, thus preventing recurrence of diabetic nephropathy in the renal graft in the long-term period. Paradoxically, surgical complications associated with PAK could jeopardize renal function in the short-term period making the indication for PAK a matter of debate especially in terms of baseline renal function. Although there is
