Update on Pancreatic Transplantation in the Management of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: transplantation, pancreas, pubmed, diabetes, patients, transplant, diabetic, pancreas transplantation, kidney, ptx, type, recipients, renal, spk, graft


associated with PAK could jeopardize renal function in the short-term period making the indication for PAK a matter of debate especially in terms of baseline renal function. Although there is no agreed cut-off of renal function to safely proceed with PAK, a stable renal function with a creatinine clearance of at least 60 ml/min/1.73 m 2 , and a negative urine analysis are all considered important criteria ( 2 , 46 , 52 ). According to the American Diabetes Association, PTA may be an option in selected patients with diabetes who have recurrent hypoglycemia unawareness, and/or have medical or psychological problems with insulin therapy ( 52 ). Normal or near-normal renal function is also required because the anticipated long-term beneficial effects of sustained insulin-independence on diabetic nephropathy may be surpassed by accelerated deterioration of renal function caused mostly by the nephrotoxic effects of immunosuppressants ( 22 , 50 , 53 ). Additional evidence shows that also patients with progressive complications (i.e., reversible nephropathy, progressive retinopathy, and severe neuropathy) may improve significantly with PTA ( 13 , 20 ). Although the impact of PTA on patient survival is still debated ( 54 , 55 ), in suitable recipients, PTA improves the course of diabetic retinopathy ( 18 ), diabetic neuropathy ( 13 ), and diabetic nephropathy ( 22 , 50 , 53 ), and reduces the level of cardiovascular risk ( 13 , 15 ). Each patient eligible for PTx is, by definition, at high risk for cardiovascular disease, making cardiac and vascular work up key in this transplant population. In recipients of solitary pancreas grafts (PAK and PTA) accurate estimate of renal function is also mandatory, as the risk of renal dysfunction/failure is reduced when the GFR is ≥ 60-70 mL/min ( 56 ). The decision to pursue a solitary PTx should hence be well balanced against the inherent risks of PTx. On the contrary, insulin-dependent patients with diabetes have in SPK their ideal treatment modality. The evaluation process in these patients should explore all possible venues to permit transplantation because continued dialysis is associated with short survival. Unfortunately, many patients are already too sick when they are first referred for transplantation and cannot be offered the chance of SPK. Although type-2 diabetes is often characterized by obesity and peripheral insulin resistance, recent studies have demonstrated that the old paradigm is no longer generally applicable. Several studies showed improved glycemic
