Update on Pancreatic Transplantation in the Management of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: transplantation, pancreas, pubmed, diabetes, patients, transplant, diabetic, pancreas transplantation, kidney, ptx, type, recipients, renal, spk, graft


are historical, such as limited referral of potential recipients ( 51 ), and incomplete procurement of pancreas grafts from otherwise suitable donors ( 59 ). Other factors, however, are newer and less correctable with educational or training programs for healthcare professionals ( 60 ). These factors include the progressive ageing of donor population ( 61 ), the increasing number of obese donors ( 62 ), and the growing proportion of cerebrovascular accidents as a cause of brain death ( 61 ). The combination of these epidemiologic factors makes the “ideal” pancreas donor (age ≤ 40 years, low BMI, death due to trauma, short stay in the intensive care unit, and hemodynamic stability without, or with low dose, vasoactive amines) extremely rare ( 63 ). These factors, along with the duration of cold graft storage, are summarized in the Pancreas Donor Risk Index ( 63 ). This index, conceived to optimize the use of all grafts suitable for PTx, has instead promoted additional donor selection and further reduced the number of PTx ( 64 ). Although it is known that PTx can be pursued using marginal donors with good results ( 65 , 66 ), most centers are not willing to accept this type of donor, as their use may be associated with higher rates of early graft failure. IMPACT OF COVID-19 PANDEMIC ON PANCREAS TRANSPLANTATION The global coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus reduced the worldwide transplant activity due to the overload of the health system and concern for patient safety. Since the first few months of the pandemic, the transplant community worked on characterizing infection, morbidity, and mortality from COVID-19 in the transplanted or waitlisted patient comparing outcomes to the general population. According to a worldwide survey, pancreas transplant activity declined shortly after the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic because of both a reduction in patient referrals and utilization of deceased donors ( 67 ). There are limited clinical data on COVID-19 in PTx recipients, including a few case reports ( 68 , 69 ) and small series ( 70 - 73 ). As detailed in a recent review, COVID-19 in PTX recipients was mostly managed by reduction of immunosuppression with withdrawal of antimetabolites. Despite lower immunosuppression, the risk of rejection and graft loss does not appear to be clearly increased ( 74 ). PANCREAS TRANSPLANTATION FROM DONORS AFTER CARDIAC DEATH Shortage of suitable brain-dead
