Update on Pancreatic Transplantation in the Management of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: transplantation, pancreas, pubmed, diabetes, patients, transplant, diabetic, pancreas transplantation, kidney, ptx, type, recipients, renal, spk, graft


lower immunosuppression, the risk of rejection and graft loss does not appear to be clearly increased ( 74 ). PANCREAS TRANSPLANTATION FROM DONORS AFTER CARDIAC DEATH Shortage of suitable brain-dead donors (DBD), has forced the transplant community to explore the venue of donation after cardiac death (DCD). Based on Maastricht criteria ( 64 ) there are four categories of DCD donors. PTx is pursued in type 3 DCD donors, also known as controlled DCD donors. In this category of donors, cardiac arrest is awaited following withdrawal of ventilatory support in patients with fatal brain injuries who are not expected to progress to brain death ( 64 ). The use of this type of donors is associated with high organizational needs and may be influenced by national attitudes and regulations ( 65 ), but the results of PTx are quite encouraging making this source of grafts worth of further exploration ( 75 - 78 ). In a recent systematic review and meta-analysis, Shahrestani and Co-workers identified 18 studies on PTx from DCD donors. No difference was noted in allograft survival (hazard ratio, 0.98; 95% confidence interval [95% CI], 0.74-1.31; p= 0.92), and recipient survival up to 10 years after PTx between DBD and DCD donors (hazard ratio, 1.31; 95% CI, 0.62-2.78; p= 0.47). The odds ratio for vascular thrombosis was 1.67 times higher in PTx from DCD organs (95% CI, 1.04-2.67; p= 0.006), but this difference was not evident in PTx from a subgroup of DCD who were treated with heparin ( 78 ). GRAFT PROCUREMENT, PRESERVATION, AND TRANSPLANTATION TECHNIQUES The history of pancreas transplantation has been shaped by developments in surgical techniques ( 7 ) and advancements in immunosuppressive regimens ( 79 ). It is now accepted that pancreas grafts are composed by the entire gland with an attached duodenal segment and that the organs are procured with minimal dissection in the donor during the heart beating period. A single arterial conduit is prepared at the back-table, usually by anastomosing the peripheral branches of a Y-shaped donor iliac graft to the cut ends of the superior mesenteric and splenic arteries ( 80 ). In rare circumstances, a segmental pancreas graft made of the body and tail of the gland, can be transplanted. This type of graft is used when there are concerns on perfusion of the pancreatic head/duodenum to allow PTx in otherwise “difficult to transplant” recipients, such as patients
