Update on Pancreatic Transplantation in the Management of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: transplantation, pancreas, pubmed, diabetes, patients, transplant, diabetic, pancreas transplantation, kidney, ptx, type, recipients, renal, spk, graft


be transplanted. This type of graft is used when there are concerns on perfusion of the pancreatic head/duodenum to allow PTx in otherwise “difficult to transplant” recipients, such as patients with high immunization titers. A segmental pancreas graft is also used from live donors ( 29 ). Pancreas grafts are highly sensitive to ischemia-reperfusion injury ( 63 ). Despite the incidence of surgical complications not significantly increasing until 20 hours of preservation ( 81 ), most centers now prefer to maintain the period of cold storage to ≤ 12 hours ( 82 ). At the moment, the gold standard for pancreas graft preservation is static cold storage using the University of Wisconsin solution ( 83 ). When the period of cold storage is not exceedingly long also Celsior ( 84 ) and histidine-tryptophan-ketoglutarate ( 85 ) can be accepted. The use of histidine-tryptophan-ketoglutarate has been associated with higher rates of graft pancreatitis ( 86 ). Reduction of perfusion volumes are thought to prevent these complications. IGL-1 in a newer preservation solution, but data on PTx are yet scarce ( 87 ). As with other organs, machine perfusion is being explored also for pancreas allografts. The potential of this innovative preservation strategy in PTx remains to be established ( 88 ). Regarding transplantation techniques, it is quite surprising that none was clearly shown to be superior over the other procedures ( 89 ). Despite this, some surgical techniques have become very popular and are currently considered standard procedures for PTx. The main variations in PTx technique regard the site for venous drainage (either systemic or portal) and the site for exocrine drainage (either urinary or enteric). In enterically drained grafts other major variations are the use of a Roux-en-Y isolated loop or the creation of a direct anastomosis between the donor duodenum and the recipient small bowel ( 90 ), duodenum ( 91 - 94 ), or stomach ( 95 ). The combination of systemic venous effluent and enteric exocrine drainage is currently prevalent ( 7 ) as the alleged metabolic and immunologic advantages of portal venous drainage have not been unambiguously proven ( 96 ). Bladder drainage along with the inclusion in the graft of a duodenal segment (97 PTx is not employed very frequently at the present time because of frequent urologic and metabolic complications. The greatest innovation in surgical technique is the description of laparoscopic, robotic-assisted, PTx. The
