Update on Pancreatic Transplantation in the Management of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: transplantation, pancreas, pubmed, diabetes, patients, transplant, diabetic, pancreas transplantation, kidney, ptx, type, recipients, renal, spk, graft


is not employed very frequently at the present time because of frequent urologic and metabolic complications. The greatest innovation in surgical technique is the description of laparoscopic, robotic-assisted, PTx. The initial experience by Boggi et al ( 98 , 99 ) was recently duplicated at the University of Illinois at Chicago ( 100 ). This makes PTx a minimally invasive procedure and is associated with obvious advantages but has high organizational needs, and requires surgeon and team training in advanced robotic procedures. IMMUNOSUPPRESSIVE PROTOCOLS Current state-of-the art immunosuppression in PTx was recently reported in a review article ( 101 ) and practice recommendations were provided by the proceedings of the first world consensus conference on pancreas transplantation (WCCPTx) ( 102 - 103 ). Although the immunologic outcome of PTx has improved over the years, rejection still occurs quite frequently (from 20-30% in SPK to around 40% in PTA) ( 104 ). Accordingly, the use of T-cell depleting antibody induction is still preferred in some 90% of recipients, while an anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibody alone is used in the remaining 10%. In last two decades, maintenance immunosuppression regimens have employed tacrolimus and mycophenolate in over 80% of the patients ( 105 - 106 ). The use of cyclosporine and/or mammalian target of rapamycin has been mostly considered in the setting of switching in case of documented side effects related to the standard regimen ( 107 ) Steroids may be withdrawn or minimized to avoid their side effects, including the risk of glucose intolerance ( 108 - 109 ). The recent evidence that development of donor specific antibodies occurs in PTx and is associated with worse immunologic outcome, further compounds the field and could require the adoption of newer protocols for the treatment of antibody-mediated rejection such as a combination of anti CD20, intravenous immunoglobulins, and protease inhibitors ( 110 ). Early experiences suggest that switch from calcineurin inhibitors to belatacept, a T-cell co-stimulation blocker used to prevent acute rejection in adult renal transplant recipients, may reduce nephrotoxicity without evidence of increased risk of kidney or pancreas rejection ( 111 , 112 ). Belatacept may represent an important strategy for preservation of renal and pancreatic function after SPK transplantation, either as first-line or rescue therapy. A trial in primary SPK transplantation ( NCT01790594 ), using belatacept for induction and for maintenance, in combination with mycophenolate mofetil and low dose calcineurin inhibitors, with early
