Update on Pancreatic Transplantation in the Management of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: transplantation, pancreas, pubmed, diabetes, patients, transplant, diabetic, pancreas transplantation, kidney, ptx, type, recipients, renal, spk, graft


rescue therapy. A trial in primary SPK transplantation ( NCT01790594 ), using belatacept for induction and for maintenance, in combination with mycophenolate mofetil and low dose calcineurin inhibitors, with early steroid withdrawal, was recently completed. According to a recent review no major improvement in immunosuppressive regimens used for PTx was achieved during the last 20 years. Most PTx patients receive induction with depleting antibodies and maintenance with a combination of a calcineurin inhibitor (with tacrolimus being more prevalent than cyclosporine) plus mycophenolate and steroid maintenance. Newer drug combinations and well-designed prospective studies are needed to further improve the outcome of PTx ( 101 ). POST-TRANSPLANT COMPLICATIONS PTx carries the highest risk of post-transplant complications among all solid organ transplants, as a consequence of the medical complexity of recipients with diabetes and the susceptibility of pancreas allografts to develop vascular thrombosis and pancreatitis. Occurrence of post-operative complications reduces the rate of graft survival, with allograft pancreatectomy being required in some 5% of PTx recipients, but does not affect patient survival ( 113 ). Life-threatening complications still occur in approximately 3% of recipients, mostly because of development of an arterial pseudoaneurysm or an arteroenteric fistula ( 114 ). In the long–term, malignancies as well as bacterial, viral, and fungal infections remain a significant cause of mortality and morbidity ( 114 ). Among a cohort of 360 SPK transplants, overall 5-year patient survival was 84%, but 25 recipients (6.9%) developed malignant tumors. Almost one-fourth of the cancers were skin tumors and 5 patients developed post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorders (PTLD) ( 106 ). According to the SRTR/Annual Data Report the cumulative incidence of PTLD at 4 years is 2.3% after PTA, 0.9% after SPK, and 1.1% after PAK. The higher frequency of PTLD in PTA patients is likely related to their increased immunosuppression and higher rates of acute rejection ( 104 , 116 , 117 ). The incidence of other cancers is 3- to 4-fold higher compared with the background population ( 115 ). PATIENT AND GRAFT SURVIVAL According to the International Pancreas Transplant Registry, 5- and 10-year graft function rates in 21,383 PTx, performed from 1984 to 2009, are 73 and 56%, respectively, for SPK; 64 and 38%, respectively, for PAK; and 53 and 36%, respectively, for PTA ( 1 ). Cardiovascular and/or cerebrovascular events are the leading cause of recipient death either short- (<3 months post-transplant) and long-term (>1-year post-transplant) ( 118 ).
