Update on Pancreatic Transplantation in the Management of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: transplantation, pancreas, pubmed, diabetes, patients, transplant, diabetic, pancreas transplantation, kidney, ptx, type, recipients, renal, spk, graft


1-year post-transplant. The longest pancreas graft survival time, by category, has been 26 years (SPK), 24 years (PAK) and 23 years (PTA) ( 124 ). The leading cause of pancreas loss is rejection ( 125 , 126 ). Autoimmunity is also increasingly recognized as a cause of graft failure ( 127 , 128 ). The diagnosis of pancreatic rejection is based on laboratory markers and imaging techniques, but core biopsy remains the final diagnostic tool. In SPK, a rise in serum creatinine can be a surrogate for pancreas rejection suspicion; however, discordant kidney and pancreas rejection have been described ( 129 ). An increase in serum amylase and lipase, although not specific, can be an initial sign of pancreatic immune-activation. Hyperglycemia occurs only in cases of severe beta-cell dysfunction or destruction, and therefore it is a late marker of rejection. Guidelines for the diagnosis of PTx rejection have been recently updated with major implementation for the identification of antibody mediated rejection ( 130 ). Pancreatic antibody mediated rejection is a combination of serological and immunohistological findings consisting of donor specific antibody detection, morphological evidence of microvascular injury, and C4d staining in interacinar capillaries. The newest Banff schema recognizes different patterns of immunoactivation, including the recurrence of autoimmune diabetes that is characterized by insulitis and/or selective beta-cell destruction. Among the different causes of graft loss, recent studies have proven that despite immunosuppression, the recurrence of autoimmune disease is not a rare event ( 129 ). Historical experience with segmental PTx in identical twins showed that, without immunosuppression, autoimmune destruction of beta cells occurs early after PTx ( 131 ). Immunosuppression prevents such recurrence in most, but not in all, patients ( 127 ). Graft failure of any organ has a negative impact on patient survival. In recipients of SPK, kidney graft loss increases the relative risk of death by a factor of 17.6 and pancreas graft loss by a factor of 3.1. In recipients of PAK, kidney graft loss increases the relative risk of death by a factor of 4.3 and pancreas graft loss by a factor of 4.1. In recipients of PTA, pancreas graft loss increases the relative risk of death by a factor of 4.1 ( 132 ). EFFECTS OF PANCREAS TRANSPLANTATION ON ACUTE DIABETES COMPLICATIONS The excess mortality seen in type 1 diabetes is largely related to diabetes and its comorbidities. Acute complications are represented by hyperglycemic syndromes
