Update on Pancreatic Transplantation in the Management of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: transplantation, pancreas, pubmed, diabetes, patients, transplant, diabetic, pancreas transplantation, kidney, ptx, type, recipients, renal, spk, graft


OF PANCREAS TRANSPLANTATION ON ACUTE DIABETES COMPLICATIONS The excess mortality seen in type 1 diabetes is largely related to diabetes and its comorbidities. Acute complications are represented by hyperglycemic syndromes (most commonly ketoacidosis, less frequently the hyperosmolar syndrome) and hypoglycemia induced by exogenous insulin therapy. They contribute to 80% of all early (<10-year diabetes duration) deaths, and for a 15% of deaths thereafter. Most early acute deaths result from diabetic ketoacidosis (often at diabetes onset or after an acute illness), whereas later acute deaths tend to result from hypoglycemic episodes ( 133 , 134 ). Successful PTx restores a regulated endogenous insulin production and eliminates the need for exogenous insulin administration. As such, no acute diabetic complication is seen in patients with fully functioning pancreatic graft. In addition, PTx improves hypoglycemia counter-regulation, by improving catecholamine and glucagon responses to glucose lowering. These improvements are stable and long-lasting, and have been shown up to 19 years from the grafting ( 135 ). Recently, the use of beta cell replacement therapy has been discussed for patient with problematic hypoglycemia, defined as two or more episodes per year of severe hypoglycemia or as one episode associated with impaired awareness of hypoglycemia ( 136 ). In such cases, if appropriate educational and technological interventions are not sufficient to improve the condition, PTx is indicated ( 136 ). It is therefore reasonable to consider PTx in patients with type 1 diabetes who are at proven risk for serious episodes of insulin-induced hypoglycemia and who demonstrate refractoriness to conventional medical management ( 135 , 136 ). EFFECTS OF PANCREAS TRANSPLANTATION ON CHRONIC DIABETES COMPLICATIONS Chronic diabetes complications are a major burden of the disease, dramatically contributing to deterioration of quality of life and reduced survival in the population with type 1 diabetes ( 137 ). They can be broadly separated into two categories: microvascular and macrovascular. The first ones are due to damage of small vessels involving eyes, kidneys and nerves, while the others are related to damage in larger blood vessels. Diabetic Retinopathy Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is the most common, highly specific microvascular complication of diabetes, with prevalence strongly related to duration of diabetes and the levels of glycemic control. Numerous studies have been performed to elucidate the role of PTx on the clinical course of this complication. Initial work ( 138 , 139 ) found that SPK with subsequent normalization of blood glucose concentrations
