Update on Pancreatic Transplantation in the Management of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: transplantation, pancreas, pubmed, diabetes, patients, transplant, diabetic, pancreas transplantation, kidney, ptx, type, recipients, renal, spk, graft


to elucidate the role of PTx on the clinical course of this complication. Initial work ( 138 , 139 ) found that SPK with subsequent normalization of blood glucose concentrations did not play a role in preventing or reversing retinal damage, but more recent studies support the view that PTx has beneficial effects. In a study conducted on 48 successful SPK, a careful eye examination was performed before and up to 60 months after grafting, with standardized classification of DR ( 19 ). The results showed, compared with a group of non-transplanted, matched patients with type 1 diabetes, that SPK recipients had a significantly higher rate of improvement or stabilization of the retinal lesions, depending on the severity of retinopathy at the time of transplantation. A report describing 112 patients with functioning SPK showed an improvement and/or stabilization in 73.5% patients with non-proliferative retinopathy, with an important decrease in the number or ophthalmologic procedures after a period of 4 years ( 140 ). Regarding the role of PTA, the course of DR was studied prospectively in PTA recipients and in non-transplanted patients with type 1 diabetes, with a follow-up of almost 3 years ( 18 ). The PTA and non-PTA groups consisted respectively of 33 (follow-up: 30 +/- 11 months) and 35 patients (follow-up: 28 +/- 10 months). Best corrected visual acuity, slit lamp examination, intraocular pressure measurement, ophthalmoscopy, retinal photographs, and in selected cases angiography were performed by the authors. At baseline, 9% of PTA and 6% of non-PTA patients had no diabetic retinopathy, 24 and 29% had non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR), whereas 67 and 66% had laser-treated and/or proliferative diabetic retinopathy (LT/PDR), respectively. No new case of diabetic retinopathy occurred in either group during follow-up. In the NPDR PTA group, 50% of patients improved by one grading, and 50% showed no change. In the LT/PDR PTA, stabilization was observed in 86% of cases, whereas worsening of retinopathy occurred in 14% of patients. In the NPDR non-PTA group, diabetic retinopathy improved in 20% of patients, remained unchanged in 10%, and worsened in the remaining 70%. In the LT/PDR non-PTA group, retinopathy did not change in 43% and deteriorated in 57% of patients. Overall, the percentage of patients with improved or stabilized diabetic retinopathy was significantly higher in the PTA group ( 18 ). Therefore, although cases of early deterioration of diabetic retinopathy have been reported after pancreas transplantation (
