Update on Pancreatic Transplantation in the Management of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: transplantation, pancreas, pubmed, diabetes, patients, transplant, diabetic, pancreas transplantation, kidney, ptx, type, recipients, renal, spk, graft


or stabilized diabetic retinopathy was significantly higher in the PTA group ( 18 ). Therefore, although cases of early deterioration of diabetic retinopathy have been reported after pancreas transplantation ( 141 ), current evidence indicates delay of development and/or increased rate of stabilization of this complication following functioning pancreatic graft ( 142 , 143 ). Diabetic Kidney Disease Type 1 diabetes mellitus patients present a high risk of developing renal complications. Diabetic kidney disease, or CKD attributed to diabetes, occurs in 20 – 40% of patients with diabetes and is the leading cause of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) ( 144 ). Progression to ESRD in this patient population has important prognostic implications ( 48 , 145 ) and proves to be resistant to most nephroprotective therapeutic measures ( 146 ). As discussed above, simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplantation (SPK) in T1D patients is associated with improved patient survival compared to solitary cadaveric renal transplantation ( 10 , 121 , 147 , 148 ). Regarding the survival of the grafted kidney, the SPK approach generally guarantees better results compared with the cadaveric donor kidney only transplant. In long-term results (>10 years), the kidney graft survival rate in SPK is equal or better compared to that observed with a living donor solitary renal transplantation ( 149 ). Successful long-term normoglycemia as obtained by a functioning pancreas can also prevent recurrence of diabetic glomerulopathy in the kidney graft, as shown histologically by comparing renal biopsies from SPK or PAK versus kidney transplant alone (follow-up 1 to 6 years, approximately). In addition, SPK has been reported to be associated with better creatinine levels and reduced urinary albumin excretion in SPK patients, compared to kidney alone grafted individuals ( 150 ). Along similar lines, in patients with type 1 diabetes and long-term normoglycemia after successful SPK transplantation, kidney graft ultrastructure and function were better preserved compared with LDK transplantation alone ( 151 ). Altogether, the available information indicates that pancreas transplantation plays a role in protecting the grafted kidney and preventing the recurrence of diabetic nephropathy in renal allografts. In the case of PTA, the effects on the native kidneys are not fully established yet. Currently available immunosuppressive drugs are nephrotoxic, and this places pancreas transplantation recipients, like other solid organ recipients ( 152 ), at risk for post-transplant nephropathy ( 153 , 154 ). Gruessner et al. ( 155 ) showed that a serum creatinine level
