Update on Pancreatic Transplantation in the Management of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: transplantation, pancreas, pubmed, diabetes, patients, transplant, diabetic, pancreas transplantation, kidney, ptx, type, recipients, renal, spk, graft


diabetic nephropathy after pancreas transplantation has also been characterized histologically ( 158 - 160 ). Fioretto et al. ( 161 ) performed protocol biopsies in patients who had received a successful PTA and found that, whereas 5 years after transplant the histologic lesions of diabetic nephropathy were unaffected, at 10 years reversal of diabetic glomerular and tubular lesions was evident. The histologic reversibility of diabetic nephropathy was previously shown in the case of transplantation of human cadaveric kidneys into recipients without diabetes ( 162 , 163 ) and is supported by the current favorable outcome of deceased diabetic donor kidneys ( 164 ). Of interest, a recent study has shown that mortality in PTA recipients who develop ESRD is similar to that found in type 1 diabetic patients on dialysis ( 165 ). Therefore, current evidence indicates that normoglycemia ensuing after successful pancreas transplantation prevents and may even reverse diabetic nephropathy lesions in native kidneys and kidney grafts. This has to be balanced with the potential nephrotoxic effects of immunosuppression. Diabetic Neuropathy Diabetic neuropathy affects approximately 50% of T1D patients and is associated with reduced survival ( 166 , 167 ). All types of pancreas transplantation may have beneficial effects on diabetic neuropathy (sensory, motor, and autonomic) ( 168 - 172 ). Navarro et al. ( 171 ) compared the course of diabetic neuropathy in 115 patients with a functioning pancreas transplantation (31 SPK, 31 PAK, 43 PTA without and 10 PTA with subsequent kidney transplantation) and 92 control patients over 10 years of follow-up. Using clinical examination, nerve conduction studies, and autonomic function tests, the authors found significant improvements in the transplanted groups (similar across the different subgroups) ( 171 ). Allen et al. demonstrated a gradual, sustained, and late improvement in nerve action potential amplitudes, consistent with axonal regeneration and partial reversal of diabetic neuropathy, in SPK recipients. Two distinct patterns of neurological recovery were analyzed: conduction velocity improved in a biphasic pattern, with a rapid initial recovery followed by subsequent stabilization. In contrast, the recovery of nerve monophasic amplitude continued to improve for up to 8 years ( 170 ). Similarly, we found a significant improvement in Michigan Neuropathy Screening Instrument scores ( 173 ), vibration perception thresholds, nerve conduction studies, and autonomic function tests in a series of PTA patients with long-term follow-up ( 13 , 20 ). The beneficial effects of pancreas transplantation on cardiac
