Update on Pancreatic Transplantation in the Management of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: transplantation, pancreas, pubmed, diabetes, patients, transplant, diabetic, pancreas transplantation, kidney, ptx, type, recipients, renal, spk, graft


thresholds, nerve conduction studies, and autonomic function tests in a series of PTA patients with long-term follow-up ( 13 , 20 ). The beneficial effects of pancreas transplantation on cardiac autonomic neuropathy were also reported by Cashion et al. ( 174 ) using 24 h heart rate variability monitoring. However, spectral analysis of heart rate variation was performed by Boucek et al. ( 175 ), but without significant findings. Interestingly, Martinenghi et al. ( 172 ) monitored nerve conduction velocities in five patients who underwent SPK, reporting a significant improvement which was strictly dependent on pancreas graft function. Nerve regeneration is defective in patients with diabetes ( 166 ). In a case report, Beggs et al. ( 176 ) performed sequential sural nerve biopsies after PTA and found histologic evidence of nerve regeneration. Quantification of nerve fiber density in skin biopsies ( 177 - 179 ) or in gastric mucosal biopsies obtained during endoscopy ( 180 ) is an interesting tool to assess diabetic neuropathy. However, Boucek et al. ( 181 , 182 ) did not find any significant improvement in intraepidermal nerve fiber density after pancreas transplantation. In contrast, Mehra et al. used corneal confocal microscopy, a noninvasive and well validated imaging technique ( 183 , 184 ), and were able to find significant small nerve fiber repair within 6 months after pancreas transplantation. These latter findings have been recently confirmed ( 26 ). Lately, it has been observed that successful pancreas transplantation improved cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy ( 185 ). However, the impact of pancreas transplantation on late, serious autonomic neurological complications (gastroparesis, bladder dysfunction) is still unsettled. Cardiovascular Disease Patients with diabetes present an increased risk for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, mainly due to diffuse coronary atherosclerosis and diabetic cardiomyopathy ( 132 ). After SPK, cardiovascular events remain a primary cause of morbidity and mortality ( 186 ), both in the immediate postoperative period ( 187 ) and in the long term ( 188 ). Preoperative cardiovascular assessment is mandatory to select patients who may maximally benefit from transplantation ( 189 , 190 ), which could also include myocardial perfusion scintigraphy ( 191 ). In SPK recipients, improvement in macrovascular disease (including cerebral vasculopathy and morphology) and cardiac function has been generally observed. A retrospective study of cardiovascular outcomes after SPK and cadaveric kidney-alone transplantation ( 192 ) showed cardiovascular death rate (acute myocardial infarction, acute heart failure,
