Update on Pancreatic Transplantation in the Management of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: transplantation, pancreas, pubmed, diabetes, patients, transplant, diabetic, pancreas transplantation, kidney, ptx, type, recipients, renal, spk, graft


function has been generally observed. A retrospective study of cardiovascular outcomes after SPK and cadaveric kidney-alone transplantation ( 192 ) showed cardiovascular death rate (acute myocardial infarction, acute heart failure, lethal arrhythmias, acute pulmonary edema) of 7.6% in SPK, 20.0% in kidney alone and 16.1% in dialyzed patients. In the same study, SPK was associated with improved left ventricular ejection fraction, left ventricular diastolic function, blood pressure, peak filling rate to peak ejection rate ratio and endothelial dependent dilation of the brachial artery ( 193 , 194 ). A study by Biesenbach et al compared SPK and KTA: after 10 years from the procedure, in the SPK group the authors showed a significant lower frequency of vascular complications which included myocardial infarction (16% vs. 50%), stroke (16% vs. 40%) and amputations (16% vs. 30%). In addition, when the cardiovascular outcomes after SPK or living donor kidney-alone transplantation were compared, it was found that SPK was associated with reduced long-term cardiovascular mortality especially in a long term follow up ( 195 ). Less information is available regarding the effects of PTA on the cardiovascular system. In a single center experience with 71 consecutive PTA followed for 5 years, clinical cardiac evaluation and doppler echocardiographic examinations were performed. The authors observed that left ventricular ejection fraction increased significantly, and several parameters of diastolic function improved ( 13 ). Most of these findings were confirmed after 8 years from transplant ( 11 ). As for the effects of PTx on the peripheral arteries, the available information suggests that this type of transplantation neither aggravates nor improves peripheral vascular disease events or progression ( 196 ). However, some authors have reported that SPK is protective against atherosclerotic risk factor and progression, prothrombotic state, endothelial function and carotid intima media thickness independent of significant changes in other risk factor ( 197 ). FIRST WORLD CONSENSUS CONFERENCE ON PANCREAS TRANSPLANTATION The first WCCPTx was held in Pisa (Italy) October 18-19, 2019. Based on the analysis and discussion of 597 studies, an independent jury provided 49 jury deliberations concerning the impact of pancreas transplantation on the treatment of patients with diabetes, using the Zurich-Danish model, while a group of 51 experts, from 17 countries and 5 continents, provided 110 recommendations for the practice of PTx. Consensus was reached after two online Delphi rounds with a final voting at the consensus conference on Pisa. Each recommendation received a
