Medications for Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, diuretics, blockers, ace, angiotensin, receptor, effects, inhibitors, ace inhibitors, angiotensin receptor, heart, adverse, table, used


The treatment of hypertension involves lifestyle modifications (eg, dietary modification, weight loss, exercise), alone or in combination with medications. The decision to treat with medication is based on the blood pressure (BP) level, the presence of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) or its risk factors, and other considerations. A number of medication classes are effective for initial and subsequent management of hypertension (1): Diuretics Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors Angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) Calcium channel blockers Direct renin inhibitors Beta-blockers Alpha adrenergic modifiers Direct vasodilators Selection and use of medications in the treatment of stable hypertension is discussed elsewhere. For treatment of hypertensive emergencies, see table Parenteral Medications for Hypertensive Emergencies. (See also Hypertension and Hypertensive Emergencies.) General medication reference 1. Writing Committee Members*, Jones DW, Ferdinand KC, et al. 2025 AHA/ACC/AANP/AAPA/ABC/ACCP/ACPM/AGS/AMA/ASPC/NMA/PCNA/SGIM Guideline for the Prevention, Detection, Evaluation and Management of High Blood Pressure in Adults: A Report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Joint Committee on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Hypertension. 2025;82(10):e212-e316. doi:10.1161/HYP.0000000000000249 Diuretics for Hypertension Main classes of diuretics used for hypertension (see table Oral Diuretics for Hypertension) are Thiazide diuretics Potassium-sparing diuretics Loop diuretics Diuretics modestly reduce plasma volume and reduce vascular resistance, possibly via shifts in sodium from intracellular to extracellular loci. Thiazide-type diuretics (thiazide diuretics and thiazide-like diuretics) are most commonly used. Chlorthalidone and indapamide, thiazide-like diuretics, are preferred over hydrochlorothiazide because of their higher potency (1) and longer duration of action. However, one retrospective analysis from The Diuretic Comparison Project (2), and another pragmatic trial conducted in Veterans (3) demonstrated that chlorthalidone, despite its greater potency, did not have an advantage over hydrochlorothiazide in reducing cardiovascular or kidney disease progression events. Although thiazide diuretics had been thought to be ineffective in patients with stage 4 chronic kidney disease, chlorthalidone has been shown to be effective in improving blood pressure in patients with glomerular filtration rates < 30 mL/minute (4). In addition to other antihypertensive effects, thiazide diuretics cause a small amount of vasodilation when intravascular volume is normal. In a few patients, thiazide-type diuretics can increase serum cholesterol slightly (mostly low-density lipoprotein cholesterol) and also increase triglyceride levels, although these effects may not persist > 1 year (5). The increase is apparent within 4 weeks of treatment and can be ameliorated by a low-fat diet. The possibility of a slight increase in lipid levels does not contraindicate diuretic use in patients with dyslipidemia. Potassium-sparing
