Medications for Hypertension
KEYWORDS: patients, hypertension, diuretics, blockers, ace, angiotensin, receptor, effects, inhibitors, ace inhibitors, angiotensin receptor, heart, adverse, table, used


in patients who have hypovolemia, severe heart failure, severe bilateral renal artery stenosis, or severe stenosis in the artery to a solitary kidney. Thiazide-type diuretics enhance the antihypertensive activity of ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers more than that of other classes of antihypertensives (4, 5). Spironolactone and eplerenone also appear to enhance the effect of ACE inhibitors. TABLE Oral Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme (ACE) Inhibitors and Angiotensin II Receptor Blockers (ARBs) for Hypertension Medication Selected Adverse Effects 5/13 Medication Selected Adverse Effects ACE inhibitors* Benazepril Rash, cough, angioedema, hyperkalemia (particularly in patients with renal Captopril insufficiency or taking nonsteroidal anti- inflammatory drugs, potassium-sparing Enalapril diuretics, or potassium supplements), Fosinopril dysgeusia, reversible acute kidney injury if stenosis affecting one or both kidneys Lisinopril threatens renal function, proteinuria Perindopril (rare at recommended doses), neutropenia (rare), hypotension with Quinapril initiation of treatment (particularly in patients with high plasma renin activity Ramipril or with hypovolemia due to diuretics or Trandolapril other conditions) ARBs Azilsartan Candesartan Dizziness, angioedema (very rare); Irbesartan theoretically, same adverse effects as Losartan ACE inhibitors on renal function (except proteinuria and neutropenia), serum Olmesartan potassium, and blood pressure Telmisartan Valsartan * All ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers are contraindicated in pregnancy (can cause injury or death to the developing fetus). Angiotensin II Receptor Blockers for Hypertension Angiotensin II receptor blockers (see table Oral ACE Inhibitors and Angiotensin II Receptor Blockers for Hypertension) block angiotensin II receptors and therefore interfere with the renin-angiotensin system. Angiotensin II receptor blockers and ACE inhibitors are equally effective as antihypertensives. Angiotensin II receptor blockers may provide added benefits via tissue ACE blockade. The 2 classes have the same beneficial effects in patients with left ventricular failure or with nephropathy due to type 1 diabetes. An angiotensin II receptor blocker should not be used together with an ACE inhibitor, but when used with a beta-blocker may reduce the hospitalization rate for patients with heart failure. Angiotensin II receptor blockers may be safely used in anyone with an estimated GFR > 30 mL/minute to reduce cardiovascular risk and kidney disease progression. Incidence of adverse events is low; angioedema occurs but much less frequently than with ACE inhibitors. Precautions for use of angiotensin II receptor blockers in patients with renovascular hypertension, hypovolemia, and severe heart failure are the same as those for ACE inhibitors (see table Oral ACE Inhibitors and Angiotensin II Receptor Blockers for Hypertension). Angiotensin
