Chapter 42: Health Insurance and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: health, diabetes, insurance, health insurance, age, adults, years, age years, coverage, adults age, private, insurance coverage, data, care, prevalence


utilization, better diabetes control, and less morbidity. Adults with diabetes age <65 years who had health insurance more often reported seeing a doctor in the past year (87.9%), including eye (58.5%) and foot (19.4%) specialists, compared to their counterparts without insurance (69.6%, 24.4%, 6.9%, respectively). In addition, those with insurance more often visited a regular doctor’s office and less frequently went to a clinic or health center for care compared to those without insurance. For adults age <65 years with diabetes, control of hemoglobin A1c, blood pressure, and cholesterol was better among those with insurance compared to those without insurance. Furthermore, adults age 18–64 years with diabetes who have health insurance were more likely to report having hypertension (65.2%) or heart disease (23.2%) compared to those without insurance (55.3% and 13.5%, respectively). Finally, the proportion of income spent on private insurance premiums and family medical care was inversely associated with family income, regardless of age or diabetes status. SOURCES AND LIMITATIONS OF DATA ON HEALTH INSURANCE Information on health insurance is available in several national probability samples in the United States. The majority of this chapter utilizes data from the National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) 2009 (1,2). The NHIS is a cross-sectional household interview survey that uses a multistage area probability design and has been conducted continuously since 1957. Participants are asked detailed questions about diabetes and health insur­ ance coverage. Diabetes is determined if participants answer “yes” to the following question: “(If female, other than during pregnancy) Have you ever been told by a doctor or health professional that you have diabetes or sugar diabetes?” Health insurance questions include items on type and source of coverage, reasons for no health insurance, and health care costs. Although the health insurance questions in NHIS are comprehensive, a limita­ tion is that the data are self-reported; however, participants were encouraged to bring their health insurance cards to the interview. In addition, a considerable proportion of participants were unaware of private insurance premiums costs; estimates for the proportion of income spent on premiums or family medical care should be interpreted with caution. The National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) is another cross-sectional national probability sample that has been conducted continuously since 1999 (3) and in certain years prior to 1999. Participants self-report diabetes status, health insurance coverage, and information on health care utilization. An advantage of the NHANES is that the survey
