Chapter 42: Health Insurance and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: health, diabetes, insurance, health insurance, age, adults, years, age years, coverage, adults age, private, insurance coverage, data, care, prevalence


(3) and in certain years prior to 1999. Participants self-report diabetes status, health insurance coverage, and information on health care utilization. An advantage of the NHANES is that the survey includes a physical exam where Received in final form September 18, 2014. 42–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition laboratory measures are collected. Thus, the NHANES has diabetes-related clinical information, such as glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c) levels, cholesterol, and blood pressure. The Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (MEPS) 2008 contains national data on the specific health services that the U.S. population uses, the frequency of use, the cost of services, and the expected sources of payment for services (4). The household component collects data from a sample of families and individuals who participated in the prior year’s NHIS, including demographic information, health conditions, use of medical services, access to care, health insurance coverage, income, and employment. Data from the household component are supplemented with information from the participants’ medical provider, including information on charges and expected sources of payment. For the data presented in this chapter, expected sources of payment were determined for medical services used by persons with diabetes. The National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey (NAMCS) 2008 is a national survey designed to collect information about the provision and use of ambulatory medical care services in the United States (5). The data are based on a sample of visits to nonfederal-employed, office-based physicians who are primarily engaged in direct patient care. Similarly, the National Hospital Ambulatory Medical Care Survey (NHAMCS) 2008 is designed to collect data on the utilization and provision of ambulatory care services in emergency and outpatient departments. Data are collected from a national sample of non institutional general and short-stay hospitals. Both surveys are based on visits to health care providers and include information on costs and sources of payment for care. For data presented in this chapter, expected sources of payment were determined for persons with a diagnosis of diabetes. The majority of NHIS 2009 data presented in this chapter are from a previously published paper (2) or are expanded analyses from this paper that were completed specifically for Diabetes in America, 3rd edition. All completely new analyses for this chapter are noted in the text. HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE AND TYPES OF COVERAGE PREVALENCE OF HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE BY AGE Data from the NHIS 2009 indicate that 90.1% of all adults with diabetes had some type of health
