Chapter 42: Health Insurance and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: health, diabetes, insurance, health insurance, age, adults, years, age years, coverage, adults age, private, insurance coverage, data, care, prevalence


insurance additionally had Medicare coverage (89.4%); 6.1% had private insurance and an additional two plans. FIGURE 42.12. Prevalence of Medicare Parts Among Adults Age ≥65 Years, by Diabetes Status, U.S., 2009 Data are self-reported. Error bars represent 95% confidence intervals. * Part A: hospital insurance; Part B: medical insurance; Part D: prescription drug coverage. SOURCE: National Health Interview Survey 2009 FIGURE 42.13. Prevalence of Combinations of Health Insurance Plan(s) Among Adults With Diabetes and Medicare, by Age, U.S., 2009 Data are self-reported. Error bars represent 95% confidence intervals. SOURCE: National Health Interview Survey 2009 FIGURE 42.14. Prevalence of Combinations of Health Insurance Plan(s) Among Adults With Diabetes and Private Insurance, by Age, U.S., 2009 Data are self-reported. Error bars represent 95% confidence intervals. SOURCE: National Health Interview Survey 2009 42–10 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition HEALTH INSURANCE AND DIABETES CARE IMPORTANCE OF HEALTH INSURANCE FOR QUALITY OF DIABETES CARE Successful control of diabetes and its asso­ ciated complications is affected by several different facets of health care, including health care utilization, availability of medical supplies, access to prescription medica­ tion, and education on how to manage diabetes; all of these factors are tightly related to health insurance coverage. Diabetes usually requires that patients take some form of medication. Patients may use insulin, oral glucose medication, insulin and oral agents, and/or lipid-low­ ering and antihypertensive medications, as described in Chapter 39 Medication Use and Self-Care Practices in Persons With Diabetes. Data from the NHIS 2009 indicate that more adults age 18–64 years with diabetes who had health insurance were taking insulin (27.1%) or diabetes pills (70.1%) compared to their counterparts without health insurance (19.7% and 64.8%, respectively); these differences could be attributed to medication costs or frequency of seeing a physician (6). The dosages of these medications should be monitored regularly by a physician for optimum treatment and to avoid medica­ tion side-effects; thus, patients need to have regular doctor’s visits. In addition, persons with diabetes often need glucose monitors and glucose test strips, which are costly materials, espe­ cially when uninsured. Finally, diabetes patients need proper instruction and education from providers in order to successfully control their diabetes. In a new analysis conducted for Diabetes in America, data from the NHANES 2007– 2010 show that more adults with health insurance regularly checked their blood sugar (56.4%) compared to those without insurance (33.1%), which suggests that those with insurance are more
