J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2006) 13:56–60
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, acute, ercp, endoscopic, patients, treatment, surgery, acute pancreatitis, gallstone, biliary, gallstone pancreatitis, cholecystectomy, guidelines, group, laparoscopic


J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2006) 13:56–60 DOI JPN Guidelines for the management of acute pancreatitis: treatment of gallstone-induced acute pancreatitis Yasutoshi Kimura1, Tadahiro Takada2,*, Yoshifumi Kawarada3, Koichi Hirata1, Toshihiko Mayumi4, Masahiro Yoshida2, Miho Sekimoto5, Masahiko Hirota6, Kazunori Takeda7, Shuji Isaji8, Masaru Koizumi9, Katsusuke Satake10, Makoto Otsuki11,**, and Seiki Matsuno12,*** Kitakyushu, Japan Abstract Clinical questions Gallstones, along with alcohol, are one of the primary etio- logical factors of acute pancreatitis, and knowledge of the CQ1. Is an emergency endoscopy approach etiology as well as the diagnosis and management of gall- beneficial in the treatment of gallstone- stones, is crucial for managing acute pancreatitis. Because of induced acute pancreatitis? this, evidence regarding the management of gallstone-induced CQ2. Is one-stage cholecystectomy followed by pancreatitis in Japan was collected, and recommendation lev- common bile duct (CBD) clearance safer and els were established by comparing current clinical practices more effective than endoscopic procedures? with optimal clinical practices. The JPN Guidelines for man- CQ3. When should laparoscopic cholecystectomy be aging gallstone-induced acute pancreatitis recommend two procedures: (1) an urgent endoscopic procedure should be undertaken in patients with gallstone pancre- performed in patients in whom biliary duct obstruction is atitis? suspected and in patients complicated by cholangitis (Recom- mendation A); and (2) after the attack of gallstone pancreati- tis has subsided, a laparoscopic cholecystectomy should be performed during the same hospital stay (Recommendation Introduction B). Research on the pathophysiology of acute pancreatitis Key words Gallstone pancreatitis · Emergency endoscopy · has advanced dramatically during the past 20 years, and, Laparoscopic cholecystectomy as the number of randomized controlled studies (RCTs) of severe acute pancreatitis has steadily increased, mainly in the United States and Europe, evidence- based management has come to be demanded for acute Offprint requests to: Y. Kimura pancreatitis. In Japan, three institutions — the Japanese *President, Japanese Society of Emergency Abdominal Society for Abdominal Emergency Medicine, the Japan Medicine; President, Japanese Society of Hepato- Pancreas Society, and the Research Group for Intrac- Biliary-Pancreatic Surgery; President, Asian-Pacific table Diseases and Refractory Pancreatic Diseases, **Chairman, Intractable Pancreatic Disease Investiga- Labour, and Welfare — collaborated to publish tion and Research Group of the Japanese Ministry of “Evidence-based clinical practice guidelines for acute ***President, Japan Pancreas Society latest evidence in relation to gallstone pancreatitis and Y. Kimura et al.: Treatment of gallstone-induced acute pancreatitis in the Japanese Guidelines 57 presents these guidelines (the JPN Guidelines) for the cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) followed
