J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2006) 13:56–60
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, acute, ercp, endoscopic, patients, treatment, surgery, acute pancreatitis, gallstone, biliary, gallstone pancreatitis, cholecystectomy, guidelines, group, laparoscopic


relation to gallstone pancreatitis and Y. Kimura et al.: Treatment of gallstone-induced acute pancreatitis in the Japanese Guidelines 57 presents these guidelines (the JPN Guidelines) for the cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) followed by ES treatment of gallstone-induced acute pancreatitis, citing (ERCP/ES group) and 374 patients treated conserva- the relevant Recommendations. tively (conservative treatment group). The analysis led to the conclusion that the ERCP/ES group had lower incidences of morbidity and mortality (Table 1), but Management of bile duct stones in gallstone- because pancreatitis patients with treated by ERCP or associated acute pancreatitis ES alone have never been analyzed, it remains unclear whether ERCP or ES is more useful. endoscopy approach beneficial in the treatment of data stratified by severity indicate that ERCP/ES is not gallstone-induced acute pancreatitis? very useful in patients with mild pancreatitis (Table 2), and a report expressing a negative opinion in regard to An emergency endoscopy approach is beneficial in early endoscopic treatment (Level 1b)5 excluded pa- patients with acute pancreatitis in whom bile duct tients with jaundice from the analysis, and the percent- obstruction is suspected or there are complications age of subjects with gallstone pancreatitis was only from cholangitis (Recommendation A) 19%. It is concluded from these reports that urgent Emergency endoscopic approaches to the management ERCP/ES is useful only in severe gallstone pancreatitis. of bile duct stones in gallstone-associated acute However, there are differences in severity assess- pancreatitis include endoscopic sphincterotomy (ES), ment, particularly of severe cases, between Japan and endoscopic papillary balloon dilation (EPBD), endo- Western countries, and no convincing evidence sup- scopic nasobiliary drainage (ENBD), and stenting. porting the application of emergency ERCP/ES in pa- Those procedures are performed to remove gallstones tients with severe cases has been established in Japan. It and to drain the bile duct, which mostly results in is currently thought that the indications for emergency relieving the obstruction of the pancreatic duct. The ERCP/ES should be restricted to patients suspected of endoscopic approach seems to be most beneficial in having prolonged biliary duct obstruction, as mani- those patients with acute pancreatitis suspected of fested by the occurrence or exacerbation of jaundice, having concomitant gallstones complicated with the and to patients complicated by cholangitis. Various occurrence or exacerbation of jaundice, and in patients other techniques besides ERCP/ES are used for biliary complicated by cholangitis. The decision whether or not drainage and are generally accepted in Japan. A report, to perform
