J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg (2006) 13:56–60
KEYWORDS: pancreatitis, acute, ercp, endoscopic, patients, treatment, surgery, acute pancreatitis, gallstone, biliary, gallstone pancreatitis, cholecystectomy, guidelines, group, laparoscopic


ERCP/ES2,3 has com- are: pletely changed the options available for the manage- 1. ERCP/ES prior to surgery, and LC after diagnosing ment of gallstone pancreatitis and has dramatically and removing CBD stones. In some patients, reduced the need for performing surgery in the acute removal of CBD stones by ERCP/ES after LC. stage. 2. Intraoperative cholangiography (IOC) during LC, There are two options in regard to delayed surgery: and conversion to the open method when CBD (i) surgery during the same hospital stay as that stones are present. for the initial treatment, and (ii) surgery during re- 3. IOC during LC, and when CBD stones are present, hospitalization after a sufficient recovery period. Be- the addition of ES during or followed by LC. cause the rate of recurrence of pancreatitis during the 4. LC, and laparoscopic choledochotomy/lithotripsy recovery period after discharge is 32% to 61% (Level when CBD stones are discovered by IOC. 3b),13–15 patients with mild uncomplicated gallstone pan- creatitis should undergo biliary tract exploration and Procedure (1) has become increasingly popular in cholecystectomy after the symptoms have been allevi- Japan. However, opinions differ concerning the applica- ated. Whenever possible, even patients with severe dis- tion of ERCP in all patients with gallstone-associated ease should undergo surgery during the same hospital pancreatitis. Some surgeons argue that ERCP should be stay as that for the initial treatment. performed only when choledocholithiasis is suspected Laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC) has been in- on the basis of blood studies and other diagnostic imag- creasingly used to treat gallstone pancreatitis over the ing, or when it is diagnosed during IOC (Level 1b– past 10 years. According to prospective cohort studies 2b).21,22 The risk inherent in ERCP should be noted, reported to date (Levels 1b–2c),16–21 LC was associated particularly in patients with acute pancreatitis (Level with a completion rate of 94.5% (range, 79% to 100%), 2b).23 It may be possible to substitute IOC for preopera- a complication (morbidity) rate of 5.5% (range, 0% to tive ERCP as a standard method to confirm those pa- 10%), and a mortality rate of 0.4% (range, 0% to 2.5%; tients who are less likely to have choledocholithiasis, if Table 3), implying that LC resulted in performance the surgeons in charge of this procedure have sufficient equal to or better than that of laparotomy. Based on experience and technique to perform IOC successfully. these results, the use of LC in mild
