Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


ABSTRACT Thyroid ultrasonography (US) is the most common, extremely useful, safe, and cost-effective way to image the thyroid gland and its pathology. US has largely replaced the need for thyroid scintigraphy except to detect iodine-avid thyroid metastases after thyroidectomy and to identify hyper-functioning (toxic) thyroid nodules. This chapter reviews the literature; discusses the science and method of performing US; examines it’s clinical utility to assess thyroid goiters, nodules, cancers, post-operative remnants, cervical lymph nodes, and metastases; presents it’s practical value to enhance US-guided aspiration biopsy of thyroid lesions (FNA); and endorses it’s importance in medical education. US reveals, with good sensitivity but only fair specificity very important and diagnostically useful clues to the clinician and surgeon about the likelihood that a thyroid nodule is malignant. Color flow Doppler enhancement of the US images, that delineates the vasculature, is essential. Comprehensive understanding of the local anatomy, the specific disease process, technical skill and experience are essential for proper interpretation of the US images. Features that favor the presence of a malignant nodule include decreased echogenicity, microcalcifications, central hypervascularity, irregular margins, an incomplete halo, a tall rather than wide shape (larger in the anteroposterior axis compared to the horizontal axis, the nodule is growing in one direction and not growing concentrically), documented enlargement of the solid portion of the nodule and associated lymphadenopathy. Several of these attributes enhance the diagnostic probability. The patient’s history, physical examination, and comorbidities refine the diagnosis. FNA and cytological examination of thyroid nodules and adenopathy in adults, children, and adolescents has become a major, specific, and highly diagnostic tool that is safe and inexpensive. In addition, the aspirate may be analyzed by biochemical measurements and especially by evolving molecular genetic methods. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Ultrasonography (US) is the most common and most useful way to image the thyroid gland and its pathology, as recognized in guidelines for managing thyroid disorders published by the American Thyroid Association ( 1 ) and other authoritative bodies. In addition to facilitating the diagnosis of clinically apparent nodules, the widespread use of US has resulted in uncovering a multitude of clinically imperceptible thyroid nodules, the overwhelming majority of which are benign. The high sensitivity for nodules but inadequate specificity for cancer has posed a management and economic problem. This chapter will address the method and utility of
