Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


of which are benign. The high sensitivity for nodules but inadequate specificity for cancer has posed a management and economic problem. This chapter will address the method and utility of clinically effective thyroid US to assess the likelihood of cancer, to enhance fine needle aspiration biopsy and cytology (FNA), to facilitate other thyroid diagnoses, and to teach thyroidology. Previously, imaging of the thyroid required scintiscanning to provide a map of those areas of the thyroid that accumulate and process radioactive iodine or other nucleotides. The major premise of thyroid scanning was that thyroid cancers concentrate less radioactive iodine than healthy tissue and therefore provided triage in the selection for thyroid surgery. Unfortunately, however, since benign nodules also concentrate radioactive iodine poorly, the selection process is too inefficient to be cost-effective. Although, scintiscanning remains of primary importance in patients who are hyperthyroid or for detection of iodine-avid tissue after thyroidectomy for thyroid cancer, US has largely replaced nuclear scanning for the majority of patients because of its higher resolution, superior correlation of true thyroid dimensions with the image, smaller expense, greater simplicity, and lack of need for radioisotope administration. The other imaging methods, computerized tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and 18F-FDG positron emission tomography (PET) are more costly than US, are not as efficient in detecting small lesions, and are best used selectively when US is inadequate to elucidate a clinical problem ( 2 , 3 ). As with any test, US should be used to refine a differential diagnosis only when it is needed to answer a specific diagnostic question that has been raised by the clinical history and physical examination ( 4 ). Its use as a screening tool for thyroid nodules and lesions such as Hashimoto’s disease is debatable. The US image must be integrated into patient management and correlated precisely with the other data. A technique has been reported that helps the clinician to interpret thyroid scintigrams of goiters and non-functioning nodules by assembling scintiscans and US side-by-side as one composite image ( 2 ). As an example of the utility of this protocol, sometimes it is difficult to correlate an ultrasound image and a scintigram. For instance, in a goiter, a small “cold” region may not be distinctive on the US examination. Thus, it may be unclear exactly where to insert a biopsy needle to obtain cytology of the nodule (that could be neoplastic) rather
