Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


not be distinctive on the US examination. Thus, it may be unclear exactly where to insert a biopsy needle to obtain cytology of the nodule (that could be neoplastic) rather than sampling the rest of the goiter (that usually is benign). In such cases, it is useful to display the two different kinds of images side-by-side or superimposed. Medical testing must be cost-effective. There is documentation that in a hospital or emergency department setting, the expense of thyroid ultrasound is quite low ( 5 ). Although sonography can supply very important and clinically useful clues about the nature of a thyroid lesion, it does not reliably differentiate benign lesions and cancer. However, it can help significantly. US can: 1. Depict accurately the anatomy of the neck in the thyroid region, 2. Help the student and clinician to learn thyroid palpation, 3. Elucidate cryptic findings on physical examination, 4. Assess the comparative size of nodules, lymph nodes, or goiters in patients who are under observation or therapy, 5. Detect a non-palpable thyroid lesion in a patient who was exposed to therapeutic irradiation, 6. Give very important and clinically useful clues about the likelihood of malignancy, 7. Identify the solid component of a complex nodule, 8. Guide and facilitate fine needle aspiration biopsy of a nodule, 9. Evaluate for recurrence of a thyroid mass after surgery, 10. Monitor thyroid cancer patients for residual disease or early evidence of reappearance of malignancy in the thyroid bed or lymphadenopathy, 11. Identify patients who have ultrasonic thyroid patterns that suggest diagnoses such as thyroiditis. 12. Perhaps refine the management of patients on therapy such as antithyroid drugs, 13. Facilitate delivery of medication or physical high-energy therapy precisely into a lesion and spare the surrounding tissue, 14. Monitor in utero the fetal thyroid for size, ultrasonic texture, and vascularity, 15. Scrutinize the neonatal thyroid for size and location, 16. Screen the thyroid during epidemiologic investigation in the field. TECHNICAL ASPECTS Sonography depicts the internal structure of the thyroid gland and the regional anatomy and pathology without using ionizing radiation or iodine containing contrast medium ( 6 , 7 ). Rather, high frequency sound waves in the megahertz range (ultrasound), are used to produce an image. The procedure is safe, does not cause damage to tissue and is less costly than any other imaging procedure. The patient remains comfortable during the test, which typically takes only a
