Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


procedure is safe, does not cause damage to tissue and is less costly than any other imaging procedure. The patient remains comfortable during the test, which typically takes only a few minutes unless there is a need to evaluate the lateral neck, does not require discontinuation of any medication, or preparation of the patient. The procedure is usually done with the patient reclining with the neck hyperextended but it can be done in the seated position. A probe that contains a piezoelectric crystal called a transducer is applied to the neck but since air does not transmit ultrasound, it must be coupled to the skin with a liquid medium or a gel. This instrument rapidly alternates as the generator of the ultrasound and the receiver of the signal that has been reflected by internal tissues. The signal is organized electronically into numerous shades of gray and is processed electronically to produce an image instantaneously (real-time). Although each image is a static picture, rapid sequential frames are processed electronically to depict motion. Two-dimensional images have been standard and 3-dimentional images are an improvement in certain circumstances ( 8 ). There is considerable potential for improving ultrasound images of the thyroid by using ultrasound contrast agents. These experimental materials include gas-filled micro-bubbles with a mean diameter less than that of a red blood corpuscle and Levovist, an agent consisting of granules that are composed of 99.9% galactose and 0.1% palmitic acid. They are injected intravenously, enhance the echogenicity of the blood, and increase the signal to noise ratio ( 9 , 10 ). Contrast-enhanced thyroid US features such as heterogeneous enhancement, slow ”wash in”, ill-defined enhancement of the border a the nodule, and fast “wash out” seem to be associated with increased association with malignancy ( 11 ). Dynamic information such as blood flow can be added to the standard US signal by employing a physics principle called the Doppler effect. The frequency of a sound wave increases when it approaches a listener (the ear or, in the case of ultrasonography, a transducer) and decreases as it departs. The Doppler signals, which are superimposed on real time gray scale images, are extremely bright in black and white images and may be color coded to reveal the velocity (frequency shift) and direction of blood flow (phase shift) as well as the degree of vascularity of an organ ( 12 , 13 ). Flow
