Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


coded to reveal the velocity (frequency shift) and direction of blood flow (phase shift) as well as the degree of vascularity of an organ ( 12 , 13 ). Flow in one direction is made red and in the opposite direction, blue. The shade and intensity of color can correlate with the velocity of flow. Thus, in general terms, venous and arterial flow can be depicted by assuming that flow in these two kinds of blood vessels is parallel, but in opposite directions. Since portions of blood vessels may be tortuous, modifying orientation to the probe, different colors are displayed within the same blood vessel even if the true direction of blood flow has not changed. Thus, an analysis of flow characteristics requires careful observations and cautious interpretations. The absence of flow in a fluid-filled structure can differentiate a cystic structure and a blood vessel. Blood flow within anatomic structures can also be depicted by non-Doppler technology. This technique is called B-flow ultrasonic imaging (BFI). It is accomplished by transmitting precisely separated adjacent ultrasound beams and analyzing with a computer, the reflected echo pairs ( 14 ). Various anatomic features and tissues result in different ultrasound characteristics ( 2 , 6 ). The air-filled trachea does not transmit the ultrasound. Calcified tissues such as bone and sometimes cartilage and calcific deposits in other anatomic structures block the passage of ultrasound resulting in a very bright signal and a linear echo-free shadow distally. Most tissues transmit the ultrasound to varying degrees and interfaces between tissues reflect portions of the sound waves. Fluid-filled structures have a uniform echo-free appearance whereas fleshy structures and organs have a ground glass appearance that may be uniform or heterogeneous depending on the characteristics of the structure. The depth penetration and resolving power of ultrasound depends greatly on frequency ( 7 ). Depth penetration is inversely related and spatial resolution is directly related to the frequency of the ultrasound. For thyroid, a frequency of 7.5 to 10 - 15 megahertz is generally optimal for all but the largest goiters. Using these frequencies, nodules as small as two to three millimeters can be identified. Performance and interpretation of thyroid sonograms are quite subjective and reflect probabilities, not certainty. Both overaggressive and excessively timid interpretation can be misleading. Routine protocols for sonography are not always optimal. Although some technologists become extremely proficient after specific training and experience, supervision and
