Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


Both overaggressive and excessively timid interpretation can be misleading. Routine protocols for sonography are not always optimal. Although some technologists become extremely proficient after specific training and experience, supervision and participation by a knowledgeable and interested physician-sonographer is usually required to obtain a precise and pertinent answer to a specific problem that has been posed by the clinician. For instance, one group has reported accurate, surgically proven preoperative identification of non-recurrent inferior laryngeal nerves ( 15 ). It is not that the ultrasound images depict an inferior laryngeal nerve. Rather, the diagnosis is suggested when, while performing the sonogram, the surgeon asks a specific, direct question about the anatomic region where the nerve should be located. Thereafter, a series of images are obtained with and without Doppler interrogation that reveal the presence of a small, linear structure that, on Doppler interrogation, is associated with blood vessels, allowing a probable answer to the inquiry. The surgeon is then in a position to operate, minimizing the risk of adverse consequences. Standard sonographic reports may provide considerable information about major anatomic features, but are suboptimal unless the specific clinical concern is explored and answered. Indeed, because some radiologists may not address the clinical issue adequately, and for convenience, numerous thyroidologists and surgeons perform their own ultrasound examinations, in their office or clinic (point of service). However, it is essential that non-dedicated ultrasonographers have state-of-the-art equipment (might not be cost-effective) and that they are willing to expend a considerable amount of time for a complete study, in particular if there is a need to evaluate the lateral neck compartments. Technical ingenuity, electronic enhancements such as Doppler capability, and even artistry are frequently required. Special maneuvers, various degrees of hyperextension of the neck, swallowing to facilitate elevation of the lower portions of the thyroid gland above the clavicles, swallowing water to identify the esophagus, and a Valsalva maneuver to distend the jugular veins may enhance the value of the images. Nevertheless, sonography is rather difficult to interpret in the upper portion of the jugular region and in the areas adjacent to the trachea. Aiming the transducer obliquely may permit exploration of the region behind the trachea. Sonography is generally not useful below the clavicles. To orient the imager, it can be useful to survey the entire neck and thyroid gland with a low-energy transducer before proceeding to 10-15 megahertz equipment. Protocols have been devised to
