Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


orient the imager, it can be useful to survey the entire neck and thyroid gland with a low-energy transducer before proceeding to 10-15 megahertz equipment. Protocols have been devised to assemble a montage of images to encompass an unusually large lobe or goiter. For an overview, panoramic ultrasound, which is a variation of conventional ultrasound allows one to produce images with a large anatomic field of view, displaying both lobes of the thyroid gland on a single image ( 16 ). There may be considerable differences between sonographers in estimating the size of large goiters or nodules ( 17 ). One investigation has reported that curved-array transducers may avoid significant inter-observer variation that may occur when linear-array equipment is employed, especially when the gland is very large ( 18 ). The inter-observer variation may be almost 50% even among experienced ultrasonographers, because it is difficult to reproduce a two-dimensional image plane for multiple studies ( 19 ). Accuracy in volume estimation becomes most important when one uses ultrasound measurements to calculate an isotope dose or to compare changes over time in the size of a nodule or a goiter. Indeed, it has been suggested even for well-defined nodules, a change of less than 1 cm in size should not be accepted as a real change ( 17 ). The important aspect is that the clinician must be guided by the constellation of risk factors, local anatomy, and intervening events, when making a management decision. Stability of size is one factor, but not a major one. Using planimetry from three-dimensional images reportedly has lower intra-observer variability (3.4%) and higher repeatability (96.5%) than the standard ellipsoid model for nodules and lobes, with 14.4% variability and 84.8% repeatability (p < 0.001) ( 20 ). Importantly, for autonomous nodules, US-evidence of growth does not indicate a likelihood of malignancy. Rather, it usually reflects cystic or hemorrhagic degeneration, which correlates well with prior experience by pathologists and the literature. In contrast, growth of a non-functional follicular adenoma can be of concern and the lesion needs to be carefully evaluated for other suspicious signs ( 21 ). There may be imperfect concordance between the ultrasonic dimensions of large thyroid nodules compared with intraoperative findings ( 22 ). SONOGRAPHY OF THE NORMAL THYROID AND ITS REGION The anterior neck is depicted rather well with standard gray scale sonography ( Figure 1 ). The thyroid gland is slightly
