Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


). SONOGRAPHY OF THE NORMAL THYROID AND ITS REGION The anterior neck is depicted rather well with standard gray scale sonography ( Figure 1 ). The thyroid gland is slightly more echo-dense than the adjacent structures because of its high iodine content. It has a homogenous ground glass appearance. Each lobe has a smooth globular-shaped contour and is no more than 3 - 4 centimeters in height, 1 - 1.5 cm in width, and 1 centimeter in depth. The isthmus is identified, anterior to the trachea as a uniform structure that is approximately 0.5 cm in height and 2 - 3 mm in depth. The pyramidal lobe is not seen unless it is significantly enlarged. In the female, the upper pole of each thyroid lobe may be seen at the level of the thyroid cartilage, whereas it is lower in the male. The surrounding muscles are of lower echogenicity than the thyroid and tissue planes between muscles are usually identifiable. The air-filled trachea does not transmit the ultrasound. Only the anterior portions of the cartilaginous rings are represented by dense, bright echoes. The carotid artery and other blood vessels are echo-free unless they are calcified. The jugular vein is usually in a collapsed condition and it distends with a Valsalva maneuver. There are frequently 1-2 mm echo-free zones on the surface and within the thyroid gland that represent blood vessels. The vascular nature of all of these echo-less areas can be demonstrated by color Doppler imaging to differentiate them from cystic structures ( 12 , 13 ). Lymph nodes may be observed. Nerves are generally not seen. However, a keen understanding of the local anatomy may permit critical interpretation of a series of gray scale US and Doppler images to gain useful insights into the probable presence or absence of an expected neurovascular bundle. Meticulous preoperative analysis that may include lymph node mapping can benefit surgical management ( 15 ). The parathyroid glands are observed only when they are enlarged and are less dense ultrasonically than thyroid tissue because of the absence of iodine. The esophagus may be demonstrated behind the medial part of the left thyroid lobe, especially if a sip of water distends it ( Figure 2 ). Figure 1. Sonogram of the neck in the transverse plane showing a normal right thyroid lobe and isthmus. L = small thyroid lobe in a patient who is taking suppressive
