Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


Figure 1. Sonogram of the neck in the transverse plane showing a normal right thyroid lobe and isthmus. L = small thyroid lobe in a patient who is taking suppressive amounts of L-thyroxine, I = isthmus, T = tracheal ring (the dense white arc represents calcification, distal to it reflects artifact), C = carotid artery (note the enhanced echoes deep to the fluid-filled blood vessel), J = jugular vein, S = sternocleidomastoid muscle, m = strap muscle. Figure 2. Sonogram of the left lobe of the thyroid gland in the transverse plane showing a rounded lobe of a goiter. L = enlarged lobe, I = widened isthmus, T = trachea, C = carotid artery (note the enhanced echoes deep to the fluid-filled blood vessel), J = jugular vein, S = sternocleidomastoid muscle, m = strap muscles, E = esophagus. GENERAL THOUGHTS ABOUT SONOGRAPHY Thyroid US may play a useful role in the management of patients even when the thyroid examination is normal but it is debatable if the procedure is cost-effective as a screening test ( 1 ). Many thyroidologists/endocrinologists advocate routine use of US at the time of physical examination to discover subclinical, non-palpable thyroid abnormalities, which will be discussed presently, and to enhance the sensitivity and accuracy of palpation. This practice is called “point of service” US. Whether US is performed at the point of service or in an US laboratory by ultrasonographers/radiologists, it is important to employ thyroid sonography selectively to supplement or confirm a physical examination especially when clinical perception is confused by obesity, great muscularity, distortion by abnormal adjacent structures, tortuous regional blood vessels, a prominent thyroid cartilage, metastatic tumor, lymphadenopathy, or prior surgery. In practice, US may be used to supplement an examination when there is uncertainty about the palpation. It is important, however, to comprehend that the optimal clinical value of US depends on the quality of the examination, including the experience of the examiner and the characteristics of the equipment. Grossly misleading results may occur with quick, incomplete studies, insensitive US machines or substandard interpretations. “Routine” sonography in a medical office, clinic or in a radiology facility by an incompletely trained clinician or general radiologist can be misleading. Without study, training and practice, there are likely to be unacceptable results and adverse outcomes. Furthermore, the efficacy of US when performed in sub-optimal conditions has yet to be critically examined. In the academic
