Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


practice, there are likely to be unacceptable results and adverse outcomes. Furthermore, the efficacy of US when performed in sub-optimal conditions has yet to be critically examined. In the academic situation, sonography is useful to teach palpation of the thyroid gland. There are claims that US can offer insights into thyroid function. For instance, among 4649 randomly selected adult subjects one investigation found that there was correlation between thyroid hypoechogenicity and higher than average levels of serum TSH, even in subjects without overt thyroid disease ( 23 ). One group reported TSH elevations in 26 patients with autoimmune thyroiditis when there was a well-defined, approximately 10 mm triangular area of low echogenicity, between the lateral margin of one or both thyroid lobes, the medial wall of the carotid artery, and, posteriorly, the pre-vertebral muscles. Euthyroid patients ( 71 ) with thyroiditis and controls ( 154 ) did not demonstrate a hypoechoic “triangle” ( 24 ). In contrast, the question arises how accurately a normal thyroid sonogram will predict normal thyroid function? In one study of normal-appearing US, TSH was normal in 41/48 (85.4%) subjects but was elevated in 7 individuals (14.6%) (p<0.001) and anti-thyroid antibodies were detected in 5 patients (10.4%) ( 25 ). Therefore, a normal sonogram does not preclude hypothyroidism or Hashimoto’s thyroiditis. SONOGRAPHY USED TO FACILITATE AN UNCONVENTIONAL SURGICAL APPROACH TO THYROIDECTOMY OR REMOVAL OF METASTASES US maybe used to guide a surgeon who performs a trans-axillary or sub-mammary approach to thyroidectomy, thereby avoiding a neck scar. Retro-pharyngeal thyroid metastases can be managed via trans-oral robotic and surgeon-performed US to localize and excise lymphadenopathy ( 26 ). SONOGRAPHY IN THE PATIENT WITH AN ENLARGED THYROID GLAND (GOITER) Thyroid sonography probably is not cost-effective in evaluating the average patient with thyroid enlargement. Since thyroid goiters are common and rarely associated with malignancy, there is little useful purpose to sonographic documentation of the size, shape, or uniformity of a goiter. However, US may be used in a goiter to identify non-palpable thyroid nodules for biopsy, or those that have enlarged or become harder. Importantly, US permits one to characterize nodules and estimate the risk of malignancy. The value of aspirating a selected nodule in a goiter is under current scrutiny. At this time, the data seems persuasive that the incidence of cancer in a particular nodule in a goiter is independent of the number of sonographically identified nodules, in
