Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


scrutiny. At this time, the data seems persuasive that the incidence of cancer in a particular nodule in a goiter is independent of the number of sonographically identified nodules, in distinction to prior belief. Therefore, this practice seems worthwhile ( 27 , 28 ). At times, it will be useful to know the ultrasonic appearance of a dominant nodule in a goiter, a tender spot, a region of focal hardness because it might give a clue about pathology ( Figure 2 ) ( 1 ). For example, sonography can identify one region in a goiter whose echo pattern is distinct from the rest of the goiter suggesting a second type of pathology, especially if the region is surrounded by an incomplete and irregular sonolucent rim, has punctate microcalcifications, or Doppler examination reveals internal vascularity. The significance of these ultrasonic features will be discussed below. Among the lesions that have been demonstrated in goiters using US are neoplasms and lymphoma. Other uses of sonography in goitrous patients include: differentiation of thyroid enlargement from adipose tissue or muscle, identifying a large unilateral mass in distinction to an asymmetric goiter, confirming substernal extension, providing the correct interpretation to varying clinical impressions among several examiners, and objectively documenting volume changes in response to suppressive therapy with thyroid hormone, which may be particularly useful information when patients change physicians. An interesting public health use of US in underdeveloped countries has been to objectively identify goiter as a screen for iodine deficiency. Furthermore, in the epidemiological setting, with proper ultrasound equipment, assessment of thyroid volume and prevalence of thyroid nodules, but not echogenicity or echographic pattern, are comparable among different observers ( 29 ). Sonography is useful to monitor patients undergoing long-term treatment with lithium for bipolar, major depressive, and schizoaffective disease. Their total thyroid volume in one investigation was significantly greater (23.7 ml vs. 13.6 ml) in the lithium-treated group ( 30 ) than among controls (96 sex- and age-matched control subjects). Furthermore, US detects thyroid enlargement with greater accuracy and sensitivity than palpation ( 31 ). SONOGRAPHY WITH THYROIDITIS AUTONOMOUS NODULES, AND GRAVES' DISEASE Routine sonography can be useful in distinguishing thyroiditis or Graves' disease, but it is uncertain whether this is cost-effective. Several publications have shown that the ultrasound pattern correlates with the presence of autoimmune thyroid disease and can predict thyroid dysfunction as will be discussed below ( 32 ). In subacute
