Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


publications have shown that the ultrasound pattern correlates with the presence of autoimmune thyroid disease and can predict thyroid dysfunction as will be discussed below ( 32 ). In subacute thyroiditis, the severely inflamed thyroid reflects very low intensity echoes, which is generally not seen with any other thyroid disorder ( 33 ). In the inflamed portions of the thyroid gland there is no increased vascular flow pattern on Doppler examination. The non-involved regions demonstrate normal vascularity and hemodynamics. In the recovery phase of subacute thyroiditis, the thyroid regains isoechogenicity and a Doppler study may show slightly increased vascularity ( 33-37 ). Hashimoto's thyroiditis and Graves' disease show moderately heterogeneous, reduced echogenicity ( 38-43 ). The diagnostic precision of this US pattern was compared to that of anti-thyroid peroxidase antibody (TPOAb) concentrations in 451 ambulatory patients with unknown thyroid status, excluding those with suspected hyperthyroidism or on drugs known to cause hypothyroidism. There was high intra-observer and inter-observer agreement on the abnormal thyroid ultrasound patterns, which were judged highly indicative of autoimmune thyroiditis and allowed the detection of thyroid dysfunction by other means with 96% probability ( 44 ). It has been reported that among 55 patients with hyperthyroidism (29 Graves' disease and 26 toxic nodules), color flow Doppler examination was useful to differentiate the etiology. Increased blood flow was successful in differentiating untreated Graves' disease from Hashimoto’s thyroiditis, both of which had similar gray scale findings (p < 0.001), and from controls (p < 0.001). “Hot”, autonomous nodules could also be differentiated from “cold” nodules because of more prominent vascular patterns and significantly higher peak systolic velocity values (p < 0.001) ( 45 ). The gray-scale US features of nontoxic autonomous nodules are similar to those of toxic autonomous nodules ( 46 ). Investigation of patients with postpartum thyroiditis who had both high levels of antithyroid peroxidase antibody and a hypoechogenic thyroid gland also had a high risk of long-term thyroid dysfunction ( 47 ). In 119 patients with postpartum thyroiditis and 97 normal postpartum women as the control group, thyroid hypoechogenecity was present in 98.5% of patients and 7% of the control group (p <0.001). Initially, mean thyroid volume in the patients with thyroiditis was 77% greater than in the control group. After remission, mean thyroid volume decreased by 25% in the thyroiditis patients. Twelve months after delivery, hypoechogenicity persisted in 4 patients ( 48 ). It has
