Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


in the control group. After remission, mean thyroid volume decreased by 25% in the thyroiditis patients. Twelve months after delivery, hypoechogenicity persisted in 4 patients ( 48 ). It has been reported that in children US findings of Hashimoto’s thyroiditis are present in only a third at the time of diagnosis and half of the Hashimoto’s children with normal initial thyroid sonography develop changes within 7 months. In some cases, characteristic Hashimoto’s findings may not develop for over 4 years ( 49 ). Especially in Graves' disease, color Doppler imaging of the thyroid can demonstrate diffuse hyperemia of the thyroid gland ( 50 ) that has been called a "thyroid inferno" ( 51 ). In patients with amiodarone-induced thyrotoxicosis, Doppler flow sonography has been reported to differentiate two types of disorder with implications for therapy ( 52-56 ). Patients with moderate to high vascular flow had underlying thyroid disease, such as latent Graves' disease or nodular goiter. The latter are at risk of amiodarone-induced thyrotoxicosis type I (AIT I), which is caused by the organification of the high amounts of iodine in amiodarone. In contrast, AIT II is caused by a destructive thyroiditis caused by the drug and there is typically no demonstrable vascular flow. The clinical value of this observation is that the Type II patients seem to respond to treatment with glucocorticoids. In contrast, AIT I patients tend to respond to a combined regimen with methimazole and potassium perchlorate ( 52 ). Although this conclusion was originally based on a small number of patients, the observations were confirmed in a retrospective case-note audit of 37 patients ( 53 ). Interestingly, in that study, euthyroid amiodarone-treated patients failed to show hyperactive flow ( 52 ). In another investigation, looking at the data from the perspective of patients who had been treated for amiodarone-induced thyrotoxicosis, in a retrospective study of 24 patients, responsiveness to prednisolone correlated poorly with the absence of enhanced blood flow in the thyroid glands, but the presence of enhanced flow appeared to correlate with non-response to prednisolone ( 55 ). Interleukin 6 (IL-6) levels correlated with the ultrasound classification in one study ( 52 ), but not in another ( 53 ). A report has successfully validated excessive mean peak systolic velocity of the superior thyroidal artery in Graves’ disease but not in patients with destructive thyroiditis ( 57 ). An important application of standard US
