Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


validated excessive mean peak systolic velocity of the superior thyroidal artery in Graves’ disease but not in patients with destructive thyroiditis ( 57 ). An important application of standard US in patients with thyroiditis or Graves' disease is to assess those thyroid glands that have focal firm consistency or are enlarged or painful for coincidental tumor or lymphoma ( 1 ). In one report, patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis had sonography to detect nodules and then had ultrasound-guided aspiration biopsy to elucidate the nature of the lesion. Two of 24 patients (8.3%) had papillary thyroid cancer ( 58 ). In patients with thyrotoxicosis, US can assess the size of the thyroid gland to facilitate I-131 dosimetry. The size of each lobe is measured in the sagittal and transverse planes to provide the length (L), anterior-posterior depth (D), and transverse width (W), respectively. The volume of each lobe is calculated using the formula for a prolate ellipse: (volume = 0.5 {L x D x W}). 3D echography may improve the accuracy of assessment of thyroid volume ( 20 ). Doppler sonography may become a useful tool for the clinical endocrinologist in the management of patients with Graves’ disease if observations are confirmed in large populations. It has been suggested that color-flow mapping of the thyroid gland may have a role in the selection of an optimal dose of methimazole needed to maintain a euthyroid state in patients with Graves' disease ( 59 ). Another study has characterized Doppler ultrasound data from patients with Graves' disease, Hashimoto's disease, and goiter to obtain a "hemodynamic index" to ascertain when antithyroid drugs should be withdrawn or ablative therapy given in patients with Graves' disease. The hemodynamics in the thyroid was significantly different between untreated thyrotoxic and medically well-controlled patients but there were no significant differences between untreated or medically poorly controlled patients. It would be interesting to ascertain whether the hemodynamics permit an identification of a subset of well-controlled patients who will relapse after a course of therapy ( 60 ). Furthermore, Doppler sonography has provided data from 40 patients with Graves' disease showing significantly increased thyroid blood flow in euthyroid patients who presented early in relapse after withdrawal of antithyroid drug therapy when compared with 16 age-matched normal control subjects. Conversely, there were no significant differences in euthyroid patients who remained in remission when compared with normal controls ( 61 ). The value of
