Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


with 16 age-matched normal control subjects. Conversely, there were no significant differences in euthyroid patients who remained in remission when compared with normal controls ( 61 ). The value of quantifying thyroid blood flow at the time of diagnosis has been assessed in 24 patients with Graves' disease, using percutaneous spectral Doppler recordings from the thyroid arteries, in an attempt to predict the likelihood of remission following withdrawal of antithyroid drug therapy. The mean duration of treatment was 14 months and follow-up in 13 women was at least 18 months (range: 18 - 39 months) after antithyroid drug withdrawal. Mean peak systolic velocity and volume flow rate values as well as thyroid volume measured at the time of diagnosis were significantly higher (139 cm/s, SD 46; 195 ml/min, SD 170; 52 ml, SD 18) in patients who relapsed after drug treatment compared with patients in remission (71 cm/s, SD 27; 67 ml/min, SD 61; 25 ml, SD 13) ( 62 ). Thyroid hypoechogenicity at onset of Graves’ disease is probably not a reliable prognostic index of relapse after medical treatment. However, the absence of thyroid hypoechogenicity after methimazole treatment seems to be a favorable prognosticator of remission ( 63 ). In another investigation, Doppler ultrasound determined increased peak systolic velocity in the inferior thyroid artery in untreated hyperthyroid patients with Graves' disease was significantly and positively associated with the maintenance dose of methimazole needed to keep TSH normal ( 64 ). Normoechoic Graves' hyperthyroid glands seem to be more resistant to therapy with I-131 than hypoechoic thyroids ( 65 ). Another example of the value of Doppler ultrasound relates to the administration of iodide solutions that have been used traditionally prior to thyroid surgery for Graves' disease because it was thought that they reduce the vascularity of the thyroid gland. Doppler echography has demonstrated a significant decrease in thyroid vascularity in patients with Graves' disease after seven days of Lugol's solution, confirming the rationale of this form of treatment ( 66 ). Preoperative treatment with Lugol’s solution decreased the rate of thyroid blood flow and vascularity, as assessed by Doppler evaluation. Lugol’s solution also decreased intraoperative blood loss during thyroidectomy in another investigation ( 67 ). In contrast, US has also shown that preoperative iodide may increase the size of the thyroid gland, which could complicate surgery when a Graves’ thyroid is very large before the Lugol’s solution is administered
