Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


also shown that preoperative iodide may increase the size of the thyroid gland, which could complicate surgery when a Graves’ thyroid is very large before the Lugol’s solution is administered ( 68 ). Doppler examination has been used trans-vaginally in pregnant women with Graves’ disease to depict and assess the size of the fetal thyroid gland. Clinical benefits might include facilitating adjustment of the mother’s dose of antithyroid drug and anticipating or preventing fetal and neonatal hypothyroidism. The authors suggested that when reduction of the medication does not result in decrease in the size of the fetal goiter, trans-placental passage of thyroid stimulating immunoglobulin should be suspected ( 69 ). SONOGRAPHY OF LYMPHOMA In the author’s experience, the value of US to predict lymphoma is very limited. However, the sonographic patterns of thyroid lymphoma have been classified into three types based on internal echoes within the suspected lesion, the border of the lesion, and the intensity of the echoes behind (deep to) the lesion. The echoes behind the lesion in each type of lymphoma are increased, presumably because of enhanced transmission of the ultrasound through the lesion. In the nodular type of lymphoma, the internal echoes within a nodule are uniform and hypoechoic (may be sufficiently hypoechoic to be pseudocystic). The border between lymphoma and non-lymphomatous tissue is well-defined and the borderline is described as “broccoli-like or coastline-like” irregularity. In the diffuse type of lymphoma internal echoes are also exceedingly hypoechoic but the border between lymphoma and non-lymphomatous tissues is not distinct. It is difficult to differentiate the diffuse type lymphoma from chronic thyroiditis. The mixed type lymphoma shows multiple, patchy hypoechoic lesions, each with enhanced posterior echoes ( 70 ). SONOGRAPHY OF THE THYROID NODULE The most frequent use of US is to refine the diagnosis of a thyroid nodule. US can identify thyroid nodules, even when they are too small to palpate. Sonography can demonstrate nodules that have an enhanced risk of malignancy with the best sensitivity of any non-invasive technique, but with only fair specificity. In addition, FNA of thyroid nodules should be performed under US guidance whenever possible. Thyroid nodules can be identified by sonography because they distort the uniform shape or echo pattern of the thyroid gland. Thyroid nodules may be large or small. They may distort the surrounding thyroid architecture or may dwell within a lobe and be unobtrusive. They may be solid tissue
