Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


thyroid gland. Thyroid nodules may be large or small. They may distort the surrounding thyroid architecture or may dwell within a lobe and be unobtrusive. They may be solid tissue or consist of solid areas interspersed with echo-free zones that represent fluid-filled hemorrhagic or straw-colored degenerative zones ( Figure 3 ). A smooth, globular area without echoes generally represents an epithelial-lined cyst, which is a rare benign lesion ( Figure 4 ) ( 71 ). Most thyroid nodules have a less dense ultrasound appearance than normal thyroid tissue and some are more echo-dense ( 6 ). A sonolucent rim, which is called a halo, may be present around a nodule. A halo represents a capsule or another interface, such as inflammation or edema, segregating the nodule and the rest of the gland. Doppler technique may demonstrate increased vascularity within a nodule or in a halo ( Figure 5 ) ( 12 ). “Nodules” are not a single disease but are a manifestation of different diseases including adenomas, carcinomas, inflammations, cysts, fibrotic areas, vascular regions, and accumulations of colloid. Figure 3. Sonograms showing longitudinal (left panel) and transverse (right panel) images of the left lobe containing a degenerated thyroid nodule. Note the thick wall and irregularity. N = nodule, H = hemorrhagic degenerated region. Figure 4. The left panel shows an anterior scintiscan of a euthyroid patient who had a firm nodule in the left thyroid lobe. The nodule is "cold". * * * = nodule. The right panel shows a sonogram of the neck in the longitudinal plane revealing that the nodule is a smooth-walled cystic structure without internal echoes. between the + + symbols. Note the dark dense echoes distal to the cyst. C = cyst, L = thyroid lobe. Figure 5. Sonogram of the neck in the longitudinal plane showing a hypoechogenic nodule that was surrounded by an echo free rim, called a halo. Doppler examination demonstrates great vascularity in the halo, identified as bright spots. Small blood vessels are also seen elsewhere. N = nodule, L = heterogeneous thyroid lobe, m = muscle. The ultrasonic appearance of a thyroid nodule does not reliably differentiate a benign thyroid lesion and cancer ( 1 , 6 ) but it does offer strong clues that help the clinician in the process of triage. Nevertheless, sonography cannot identify a specific kind of tumor such as a Hürthle cell lesion ( 72
