Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


does offer strong clues that help the clinician in the process of triage. Nevertheless, sonography cannot identify a specific kind of tumor such as a Hürthle cell lesion ( 72 ). The most reliable sonographic indicator that a nodule is malignant is observing vascular invasion by tumor, which is rarely seen. However, there are distinctions in echo-density, calcifications, distortions of the rim, and vascularity that favor a benign or malignant diagnosis ( 73 , 74 ). These characteristics are summarized in Tables 1 & 2 . But it is important to understand that the features described reflect statistical probabilities and not dependable criteria. Table 1. Ultrasound Characteristics Associated with an Increased Thyroid Cancer Risk View in own window 1. Hypoechoic 2. Microcalcifications 3. Central vascularity 4. Irregular margins 5. Incomplete halo 6. Taller-than-wide 7. Significant enlargement of a nodule Table 2. Ultrasound Characteristics Associated with a Low Thyroid Cancer Risk View in own window 1. Hyperechoic 2. Large, coarse calcifications (except medullary thyroid cancer) 3. Peripheral vascularity 4. No hyper-vascular center 5. Spongiform appearance (puff pastry appearance) 6. Comet-tail shadowing An important aspect is that single or even a few US features may be inadequate to select some nodules for FNA or to reliably assess the risk of thyroid cancer. In contrast, selections based on multiple characteristics that are associated with elevated cancer risk are more dependable indicators of probable malignancy. Nevertheless, certain single features should prompt for FNA including microcalcifications, a taller-than-wide shape, or irregular margins. Absence of elasticity-will probably identify nodules with a clinically meaningful increased, perhaps even high risk for malignancy ( 75 ). ECHOGENICITY: Thyroid malignancies tend to be hypoechoic when compared with the rest of the thyroid ( 71 , 76-79 ). Since many benign thyroid nodules, which are far more common than malignancies, are also hypoechoic, this finding is not particularly useful except that it is reasonably safe to conclude that hyper-dense nodules are probably not cancerous. One group of investigators has concluded that hyperechogenic lesions occurring in thyroiditis-affected thyroid glands bear no-clinical relevance. Therefore, they advocate that aspiration biopsy of these nodules is not advisable ( 80 ) and many clinicians follow that practice. CALCIFICATIONS: The presence of calcification is also not a straightforward diagnostic aid. Microcalcifications are relatively more common in malignant than in benign lesions and may represent psammoma bodies. Microcalcifications have been reported as demonstrating a 95.2% specificity for thyroid
