Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


straightforward diagnostic aid. Microcalcifications are relatively more common in malignant than in benign lesions and may represent psammoma bodies. Microcalcifications have been reported as demonstrating a 95.2% specificity for thyroid cancer, but a low sensitivity of 59.3% and a diagnostic accuracy of 83.8% ( 77 ). B-flow ultrasonic imaging may be particularly sensitive in detecting microcalcifications by demonstrating “twinkling” in some nodules ( 14 ). However, large coarse calcifications and calcifications along the rim of nodule are common in all types of nodules and reflect previous hemorrhage and degenerative changes. Thus, since some cancers may have been chronic and have undergone degenerative change, they may demonstrate peripheral or coarse internal calcification. Therefore, diagnostic FNA biopsy may be appropriate even when there are large, coarse, or eggshell calcifications to avoid missing a cancer ( 79 ). Indeed, in one investigation, among 64 thyroid nodules with peripheral calcifications 19 (30%) were benign, and 45 (70%) were malignant. Interruption and thickening of peripheral calcifications and decreased internal echogenicity of a thyroid nodule with peripheral calcifications were associated with malignancy in this study ( 81 ). In our estimation, considerably more than 30% of such nodules are benign; thyroid calcifications that are greater than pin-point size provides little practical help in identifying cancer in the individual patient. In one study, the highest incidence of calcification was found in thyroid cancer (54%), followed by multinodular goiter (40%), solitary nodular goiter (14%), and follicular adenomas (12%). The authors reported that calcifications in a "solitary" nodule in a person younger than 40 years should raise a strong suspicion of malignancy: relative cancer risk of 3.8 versus 2.5 in patients older than 40 years ( 82 ). In contrast to the prior statements, it is important to note that large calcifications are seen with increased frequency in medullary thyroid carcinoma ( 83 ). HALO: A halo around the nodule may be seen with benign or malignant conditions. It suggests that there is an acoustic interface around the nodule that does not reflect the ultrasound. It implies that there are two different types of histology in the region: the nodule and the surrounding thyroid ( 6 , 71 , 84 ). Some observers have suggested that cancer should be suspected when the periphery of a halo has a blurred appearance. We have not found that characteristic reliable. Since adenomas are more common than carcinomas, the finding of a halo
