Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


suspected when the periphery of a halo has a blurred appearance. We have not found that characteristic reliable. Since adenomas are more common than carcinomas, the finding of a halo is, in our opinion, more often seen with adenomas than carcinomas. NODULE BORDER: There have been investigations of a possible correlation between the degree of definition of the border of a nodule and the likelihood of malignancy and even of the predictability of aggressive characteristics of a papillary cancer. In one series of 155 cases, poor definition of a nodule’s edge was observed in 21.5% of patients, all of whom showed worse disease-free survival (p = 0.0477) than those with a well-defined edge. Furthermore, this finding was directly linked to US-diagnosed lateral node metastasis (p = 0.0001) ( 85 ). Ultra-high frequency thyroid ultrasound (12–18 MHz) may reveal jagged edges and lobulated borders in 1 to 3 cm thyroid nodules. These findings have been reported to correlate with papillary thyroid cancer with a sensitivity of about 60 to 70% ( 86 ). HEMODYNAMIC CHARACTERISTICS: Increased blood flow in the central part of a nodule is more likely associated with cancer than when the vascularity is along the periphery. An analysis of the hemodynamic characteristics of a nodule by high resolution pulsed and power Doppler ultrasonography also may offer valuable preoperative diagnostic insights. For example, one study of 25 follicular adenomas and 10 follicular carcinomas compared the vascular pattern and the velocimetric parameters (such as peak systolic velocity), end-diastolic velocity, pulsatility index or resistance index. Eight of 10 patients with follicular carcinomas showed moderate increase of intra-nodular vascularity using “Power Doppler”. In contrast, the 21 out of 25 follicular adenomas showed only a peripheral rim of color flow. Furthermore, the velocimetric analyses were significantly higher in the patients with cancer than those with adenomas ( 80 ). Bayes' mathematical theorem has been used to evaluate the cancer diagnostic value of enhanced intranodular blood flow by Doppler analysis in determining the probability of cancer in thyroid nodules that demonstrate follicular cytology. The sensitivity of enhanced intranodular flow by Doppler analysis for detection of thyroid carcinoma was 80%-86% and the specificity of indicating cancer ranged from 85% to 89%. In contrast, the probability that a nodule is thyroid cancer before a Doppler test was estimated at 12%-14%. After Doppler examination, the probability of thyroid cancer increased to nearly 50% in the presence of
