Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


that a nodule is thyroid cancer before a Doppler test was estimated at 12%-14%. After Doppler examination, the probability of thyroid cancer increased to nearly 50% in the presence of intranodular flow but declined to 3% when there was no central intranodular flow ( 87 ). In one investigation of 230 patients, 203 of whom were treated surgically, the addition of color flow Doppler imaging to conventional sonography increased the screening sensitivity and accuracy in identifying 36 malignant thyroid nodules from 71.9% to 83.3% ( 88 ). Thus, Doppler ultrasound may be a particularly useful predictor of the risk of malignancy in thyroid nodules ( 89 ). Doppler sonography employing ultrasound contrast medium may further enhance the diagnosis of thyroid cancer. In one investigation, carcinomas showed a significantly earlier arrival time of Levovist in the nodule than nodular hyperplastic benign nodules or adenomas ( 90 ). SHAPE: There have been observations that some cancers tend to have a non-globular, “tall” shape, as if growing in one plane (i.e. the depth of the nodule is larger than the width in the horizontal plane). Nodules that are tall rather than wide should be viewed with considerable suspicion. This observation has recently been validated in 500 patients with thyroid microcarcinomas ( 91 ). CYSTIC SPACES: Especially large benign or malignant thyroid nodules tend to undergo hemorrhagic or cystic degenerative changes. It has been reported that features associated with cancer in a cystic thyroid nodule include more than 50% solid tissue, eccentricity of the cystic space, and micro-calcifications ( 92 ). MISCELLANEOUS CHARACTERISTICS: Ultrasonographers have observed that colloid nodules, which are benign with high probability, have a more or less characteristic appearance of a “stack of pancakes”, “puff pastry like a Napoleon”, or sponge. In one publication, among 201 nodules, no malignancies were found when the US appearance was greater than 75% “sponge-like” (spongiform) ( 93 ). There may be a small, echogenic, bright spot with “comet-tail shadowing” associated with colloid that must be differentiated from a pin-point bright spot. There seems to be triage-merit to these characteristics, which will require critical scrutiny. Furthermore, it is important to be aware that a cancer may co-occur in an otherwise nodular or colloid goiter. This issue will be further discussed below in the section on thyroid biopsy. To summarize, the cancer-predictive value of ultrasonic characteristics varies considerably but is acceptable when multiple characteristics are considered together.
