Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


has a very limited ability to predict postoperative staging. In one study, the sensitivity of depicting metastases to lymph nodes was 36.7%, invasion of the muscles 77.8%, trachea involvement 42.9%, and esophagus 28.6% ( 97 ). Postoperatively, sonographic features of nodules in a thyroid bed cannot reliably distinguish recurrent thyroid cancer and benign thyroid remnants ( 98 ). However, in remnants, increased vascularity, and microcalcifications of a lesion that is larger than 6 mm in size should be viewed with suspicion. Perhaps more objective, computerized triage of ultrasound features of thyroid nodules will become possible. In one investigation an artificial neural network and binary logistic regression was significantly better than two experienced radiologists in distinguishing benign and malignant thyroid nodules based on 8 ultrasonographic parameters: size, shape, margin, echogenicity, cystic change, microcalcification, macrocalcification, and halo. The study included 109 pathologically proven thyroid lesions (49 malignant and 60 benign) in 96 patients ( 99 ). It is important to note that there may be significant inter-observer variation in interpretation. The inter-observer variation in the interpretation of thyroid ultrasonograms among 4 experienced readers reviewing 144 patients, varied according to the characteristic examined. Echogenicity showed slight agreement (kappa = 0.34); composition, margin, calcification, and final assessment had fair agreement (kappa = 0.59, 0.42, 0.58, and 0.54, respectively); shape and vascularity showed substantial agreement (kappa = 0.61 and 0.64, respectively). Intra-observer variability showed better agreement (kappa > 0.61). For the four radiologists, the overall sensitivity was 88.2%, specificity 78.7%, positive predictive value 76.2%, negative predictive value 89.6%, and accuracy 82.8% ( 100 ). There have been investigations into the differences in the biologic behavior of thyroid cancer based on preoperative US features. One study in patients with follicular variant of papillary thyroid cancer showed more aggressive cancer behavior when there were preoperative US characteristics that suggested malignancy when compared with those without such features ( 101 ). In children, there is no consensus about the value of US characteristics as predictors of malignancy. One group is not enthusiastic ( 102 ). Another group of investigators who also did molecular genetics on aspirated thyroid nodules offered a more positive view ( 103 ). SONOGRAPHY OF A PALPABLE DOMINANT NODULE IN AN ENLARGED OR NODULAR THYROID We now know that a so-called “solitary nodule” in an otherwise normal thyroid gland often is a nodule in a gland that has sub-clinical nodules (see below). Even more frequently,
