Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


We now know that a so-called “solitary nodule” in an otherwise normal thyroid gland often is a nodule in a gland that has sub-clinical nodules (see below). Even more frequently, clinicians encounter patients with a “dominant” nodule in an enlarged or nodular thyroid. It is generally agreed that for a dominant thyroid nodule FNA is the best test to assess malignancy. Furthermore, a diagnostic strategy using initial FNA was found to be more cost-effective than starting with ultrasonography or scintigraphy ( 104 ). Evidence is mounting in support of US for patients with palpable uninodular thyroid disease and goiter because non-palpable nodules are common and a few of these are cancerous. In many countries, US is being employed more often than previously especially when palpation is uncertain or skills are tentative. US has been reported to provide information to the clinician that importantly alters management in 63% (109/173) of patients who were referred to a tertiary endocrine group. Sonography showed an indication for needle aspiration or demonstrated that the procedure is not necessary. Among 114 patients who were referred because of a solitary thyroid nodule, US detected additional nonpalpable thyroid nodules that were at least 1 cm in diameter in 27 patients and no nodules in 23 subjects. Thus, among 50 patients US lead to an almost equal number of additional aspirations or no biopsy. Among 59 patients who were referred because of goiter, US showed no nodule in 20, thus avoiding biopsy, and revealed nodules at least 1 cm in diameter in 39 patients that required aspiration ( 27 ). THE NON-PALPABLE THYROID NODULE OR INCIDENTALOMA Sonography demonstrates micronodules (incidentalomas) of the thyroid that are less than 1 cm in diameter, non-palpable, common, and of questionable clinical significance ( 105 ) ( Figure 6 ). Whereas palpable thyroid nodules occur in 1.5 - 6.4% of the general population ( 106 ), the incidence of non-palpable nodules is at least ten fold greater when the population is screened by US ( 107 ). Non-palpable nodules increase with age to involve approximately 50% of older adults, especially women. The risk of malignancy among palpable nodules is approximately 10% and in micronodules had been thought to be considerably smaller ( 108 ). However, investigations reported a similar incidence of cancer in palpable and non-palpable thyroid nodules ( 109-111 ). One study actually reported a higher incidence of malignancy among incidentally discovered nodules
