Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


However, investigations reported a similar incidence of cancer in palpable and non-palpable thyroid nodules ( 109-111 ). One study actually reported a higher incidence of malignancy among incidentally discovered nodules than among clinically detected lesions ( 112 ). However, most microcarcinomas are clinically indolent. Yet, among 317 incidentalomas that were aspirated from 267 patients the rate of malignancy was 12% in a retrospective analysis. In addition, in this subgroup, 69% (25/36) of patients had either extra-thyroidal extension or regional node involvement and 39% had multifocal tumors at surgery, suggesting that the small size alone does not guarantee a low risk in incidentally found thyroid cancers ( 113 ). Therefore, the clinical impact of incidentalomas is quite small but they cannot be ignored. Rather, they should be monitored at intervals with US for suspicious characteristics, size, adenopathy, other clinical features, and - perhaps – a thyroglobulin measurement. How useful are the sonographic characteristics of non-palpable nodules as an index of malignancy? Some insight to this question has been gained from a study performed on 16,352 self-referred patients in a health care center. Among 1,325 non-palpable thyroid nodules in 1,009 patients, marked hypoechogenicity, an irregular shape, a taller-than-wide shape, a well-defined spiculated margin, microcalcification, and an entirely solid nature were significant predictors for malignancy (P < .05) ( 114 ). Figure 6. Sonograms of the right thyroid lobe in the longitudinal plane showing a 2.7 x 3.2 mm hypoechoic nodule that is delineated in the lower panel by the xx and ++ symbols. Note the linear hypoechoic structure below that (arrow). In the upper panel the bright structure is a Doppler signal and indicates a blood vessel below the nodule. The nodule is not vascular. Non-palpable nodules or those that have escaped detection on examination are often discovered incidental to imaging of the neck for vascular or neurological reasons. They may be discovered during upper GI endoscopy ( 115 ). These thyroid lesions should be managed like other “Incidentalomas”, with observation, dedicated thyroid US, aspiration biopsy, or even surgery, as indicated by the data and mature judgment. This opinion is supported by an investigation in which thyroid nodules were found in 9.4% ( 116 ) of 2,004 consecutive patients undergoing carotid duplex ultrasonography. There was high correlation of the nodules with standard thyroid ultrasonography (presence of nodules, 97% (64 of 66) and size, r = 0.95, P<.001). Twenty-one (32%) of the nodules
