Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


FNA was done on 5 mm or smaller nodules, surgical confirmation was obtained in 62 nodules and there were 34 (55%) true positives, 0 (0%) false positives, 23 (37%) true negatives, and five (8%) false negative results for malignancy (sensitivity 87%, specificity 100%, positive predictive value 100%, negative predictive value 82%, accuracy 92%, false positive rate 0%, and false negative rate 8%) ( 120 ). However, considering the minimal clinical impact of thyroid microcarcinomas, the clinical value of aspirating nodules this small is uncertain. Importantly, the American Thyroid Association guidelines recommend avoiding cytological evaluation of nodules less than 1 cm in size ( 1 ). A selected, population base study of 485 thyroid nodules suggested that this advice would not miss any thyroid cancers with high risk features ( 121 ). US has changed our clinical perception of what is a normal thyroid gland and has advanced medical practice. Current high-resolution ultrasonography of the thyroid has permitted the clinical detection of nodules that are as small as 2 mm. It frequently demonstrates that what appears to be a normal gland, actually contains a non-palpable nodule or is a subclinical nodular goiter ( 78 , 108 ). It may show that a solitary nodule on palpation really is a clinically palpable nodule in a gland that is subclinically multinodular. Pathologists have long known about the ubiquitous nature of thyroid micronodules and the relative frequency of occult thyroid carcinomas, which are rarely of clinical consequence. Now the clinician is often confronted with the challenge that micronodules are discovered as a consequence of investigations for orthopedic, neurological, vascular pathology or other pathologies, or together with a palpable thyroid nodule. As a rule, their discovery often results in needless expense, concern, and therapy because it is not known which of the myriad nodules that have been revealed is, or will progress to become a cancer with clinical impact. It remains for future investigation to determine the appropriate management for micronodules. Because it is rare for one of these lesions to represent an occult thyroid cancer and rarer still for one to become a clinically significant malignancy, non-selective surgery, which has an exceedingly small yield of cancer and is not risk-free, seems ill advised. Also inappropriate is dismissal of the problem as unimportant. Rather, to this author, periodic sonographic reassessment for possible growth of the nodule or change in characteristics appears preferable. The role of
