Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


inappropriate is dismissal of the problem as unimportant. Rather, to this author, periodic sonographic reassessment for possible growth of the nodule or change in characteristics appears preferable. The role of ultrasound guided needle biopsy in the management of these patients, especially when there is a history of exposure to therapeutic x-ray will be discussed below. Not all "incidentalomas" in the neck are thyroid in origin. Parathyroid adenomas have been observed within the thyroid gland or in the usual parathyroid anatomic location when ultrasonography was performed to evaluate thyroid nodules ( 122 , 123 ). An example of a misidentified lesion that demonstrates the extent of the lack of specificity of a “sonographic nodule” is an esophageal tumor that was erroneously characterized as thyroid ( 124 ). SONOGRAPHY OF LYMPHADENOPATHY Even in a patient with thyroid cancer, enlarged benign thyroid lymph nodes are more common than malignant ones. Nevertheless, US may be useful to diagnose and if appropriate, periodically reassess lymphadenopathy in the patient with a history of thyroid cancer, or if there is a history of exposure to therapeutic radiation in childhood or adolescence. A high-resolution ultrasound system equipped with a high-energy linear probe, a 12 -15 MHz transducer, B-Mode and Doppler capability, experience, and diligence are required to detect lymphadenopathy. Normal Lymph Nodes Normal lymph nodes are depicted by sonography as approximately 1 X 3 mm, well-defined, elliptical, uniform structures that are slightly less echo-dense than normal thyroid tissue and that have an echo-dense central hilum. Lymphadenopathy that is reactive to infection may be larger but the lymph nodes tend to maintain an oval shape; in contrast, malignant nodes more often have a "plump" rounded shape ( 125 ) ( Figures 7 , 8 ). Figure 7. Sonogram in the longitudinal plane of the left side of the neck after thyroidectomy showing a small, elliptical benign appearing lymph node in the jugular region. It is delineated by the xx and ++ symbols. Figure 8. Sonogram in the transverse plane after thyroidectomy for cancer, from a muscular man. There was no palpable mass. The image shows a rounded lymph node that was cancer. C=carotid artery, m=muscle, ++ marks the node. Especially in children, inflammatory lymphadenopathy is common, which may complicate a search for cancerous nodes. Tuberculous cervical lymphadenitis can mimic metastatic lymph nodes from papillary thyroid carcinoma ( 126 ). Indeed, especially in a region where tuberculosis is endemic, even
