Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


a search for cancerous nodes. Tuberculous cervical lymphadenitis can mimic metastatic lymph nodes from papillary thyroid carcinoma ( 126 ). Indeed, especially in a region where tuberculosis is endemic, even when a patient is known to have papillary thyroid cancer, adenopathy reportedly is more commonly due to tuberculosis than to thyroid cancer ( 127 ). A source of confusion in diagnosing lymphadenopathy especially in the elderly and obese subjects is fatty change in a node that may mimic a macro-metastasis at palpation. US can offer useful insight. In one study, of 110 selected patients with a total of 247 nodes, the central “fatty”, hyperechoic hilum was quite large, extending more than one third of the transverse diameter. The ratio of the long to short axes of the node and the parenchyma to fat (P:F) were obtained. Differences between mean P:F ratio in diabetic and nondiabetic patients were significant (p=0.045). The mean P:F ratio was negatively related to body mass index (BMI) (r=0.62, p=0.015) and age (r=0.54, p=0.024). All of the nodes examined with a mean P:F ratio ≤ 1.2 ( 58 ) were found in patients older than 72 years and with a BMI higher than 27.8 ( 30 ). Characteristics of Malignant Lymphadenopathy There are ultrasonic characteristics of lymphadenopathy that correlate in a clinically useful fashion with metastases from thyroid cancer. The features that correlate most highly include microcalcifications, a spherical shape, a large cystic space, loss of the hilum, and neo-vascularization that is characterized by blood vessels penetrating the node from its periphery rather than its hilum. The results of investigations are reasonably confirmatory. In one study of 19 patients who were referred for lymph node dissection, 578 nodes were removed, 103 of which were ultrasonically detected. The authors analyzed only the 56 nodes (28 benign and 28 malignant) that were unequivocally matched for US and pathology. The authors reported that the major criteria of malignancy were: cystic appearance, hyperechoic punctations, loss of hilum, and peripheral vascularization. If there was only cystic appearance or hyperechoic punctations, the risk of malignancy was lower but still suspicious of malignancy. They were of the opinion that nodes with “a hyperechoic hilum should be considered as benign, that peripheral vascularization has the best sensitivity-specificity compromise, and that round shape, hypoechogenicity, and the loss of hilum taken as single criterion are not specific enough to suspect malignancy” . The reported sensitivity and specificity
