Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


have a high resistive index (mean 0.92) while reactive nodes have a considerably lower value (<0.6) ( 134 ). Another investigator reported that metastatic nodes from papillary carcinoma frequently demonstrate prominent hilar vascularity similar to reactive nodes ( 135 ). Among abnormal nodes that had cystic spaces, one study showed a high likelihood of papillary thyroid cancer as assessed by FNA. Cystic changes were not seen in 43 of 63 pathologic nodes that were either metastatic from other malignancies (22 patients) or benign reactive lymphadenopathy (21 patients) ( 136 ). Since cystic spaces due to necrotic material may be seen in tuberculous nodes, caution is warranted when one interprets the clinical meaning of this finding. An important diagnostic aspect of cystic masses that are lateral to the thyroid is demonstrated by one report that showed that among 37 adults (age 16-59 years), 10.8% of cervical cysts were lymphatic metastases from occult thyroid carcinoma ( 137 ). Others have reported similar observations and the point has been made that in younger patients, the lymph nodes might appear purely cystic, thereby mimicking branchial cysts ( 138 ). In some studies, the addition of CT of the neck to US was found to be slightly superior to sonography alone for the detection of metastatic papillary thyroid cancer lymph nodes in the lateral compartment of the neck but not in the central compartment ( 139 ). Another investigation suggested that high-resolution ultrasound is accurate in preoperative evaluation for extra-thyroidal tumor extension and lateral lymph node metastasis. In contrast however, in this study, CT had greater sensitivity than ultrasound alone in the detection of central lymph node metastases ( 140 ). In patients with suspected recurrent thyroid cancer, however, a combination of diagnostic techniques maybe necessary to differentiate a true recurrence and noncancerous images, called cryptic findings ( 141 ). Fused I-131 whole body scan SPECT when coupled with CT or PET can elucidate the nature of such images. Many of these findings prove to be inflammatory in nature, thereby avoiding unnecessary treatment with I-131 ( 142 ). Precisely directed US has been reported to enhance the specificity while maintaining sensitivity, especially in the neck and superior mediastinum ( 143 ). Cytological, immunocytological, and biochemical (thyroglobulin) analysis of enlarged cervical lymph nodes, using the ultrasound-guided aspiration biopsy technique described below, can differentiate thyroid cancer metastases and inflammatory lymphadenopathy ( 144 ). It is important to
