Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


or _____images? Technically comparable? _____Yes _____ No Compare characteristics of lobes Compare characteristics of nodules Compare characteristics of nodes * Enhanced risk of thyroid cancer It is both logical and useful to separate a report into: 1) a brief statement of the reason for the US in the context of the history including pathology if any, 2) an objective narration of the findings, which represents the anatomy as defined by ultrasound, and 3) a brief, subjective, summary and conclusion or opinion. Mixing concepts 2 and 3 can be confusing to the clinician by mistaking what the interpreter sees in distinction to what he/she thinks, which may lead to variance in management. There have been several attempts to codify thyroid ultrasound reports and stratify cancer-risk. An example is the Thyroid Imaging Reporting and Data Systems (TIRADS). One of them has, for example, been correlated with needle-biopsy results in 1959 thyroid nodules. The classifications were expressed as 1-5 with the following percentages of malignancy: TIRADS 2 (0% malignancy), TIRADS 3 (<5% malignancy), TIRADS 4 (5-80% malignancy), and TIRADS 5 (>80% malignancy). In a sample of 1097 nodules (benign: 703; follicular lesions: 238; and carcinoma: 156), the sensitivity specificity positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and accuracy were 88, 49, 49, 88, and 94%, respectively. The major problems of this approach are that the classifications are subjective and, as we shall see below, environmental and other factors may influence ultrasound appearance of nodules. Nevertheless, uniform, reproducible, and relevant reporting should facilitate clinical management and help the clinician to select nodules for aspiration biopsy, surgery or observation ( 145 ). In one investigation, the American College of Radiology TIRADS structured reporting improved the “quality” of thyroid ultrasound reports. The authors reported an improved description of features that were predictors of malignancy. In addition, there was an increased number of definitive management recommendations that resulted in reducing the number of biopsies. In this author’s opinion, the value of management advice and reduced biopsies based on image appearance alone needs to be established on more firm evidence than is currently available ( 146 , 147 ). Attempts are in progress to unify thyroid ultrasound reporting features and recommendations, as well as the various TIRADS systems, across the various medical specialty societies and also internationally ( 148 ). Several novel computer-based approaches taking advantage of developments in artificial intelligence for malignancy risk assessment of thyroid nodules in
