Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


the various medical specialty societies and also internationally ( 148 ). Several novel computer-based approaches taking advantage of developments in artificial intelligence for malignancy risk assessment of thyroid nodules in ultrasound images have been suggested. Local echogenic variance and boundary features are utilized to incorporate information associated with local echo distribution. Analysis of variance is performed utilizing feature vectors derived from all combinations of the characteristics under study. The classification results are evaluated with the use of receiver operating characteristics that are capable of discriminating between medium-risk and high-risk nodules ( 149 ). This promising field Is it in its infancy. SONOGRAPHY IN THE PATIENT WITH A HISTORY OF HEAD AND NECK THERAPEUTIC IRRADIATION IN YOUTH In the patient with a history of therapeutic irradiation to the head and neck in youth, the thyroid cancer risk may be as high as 30%. Since thyroid nodules may be detected with ultrasound before they become large enough to be palpable, sonography has been employed to screen irradiated people for tiny nodules. This selection process is quite inefficient because in the process, many more benign nodules are found than malignant ones. Furthermore, as has been observed after the nuclear event in Fukushima, Japan, the detected papillary microcarcinomas tend to be indolent ( 150 ). Consequently, some clinicians prefer not to detect micronodules contending that they are clinically irrelevant. In contrast, the author prefers to obtain a potentially useful baseline sonogram, but not to act on the presence of a micronodule unless a repeat sonogram after an interval of time demonstrates its growth or other circumstances that heighten the suspicion of malignancy. It is this author’s practice to obtain a thyroglobulin level when a micronodule is detected and again a year later in order to assess whether it has risen significantly. However, this conjecture and its validity have not been studied rigorously. SONOGRAPHY TO MONITOR CHANGES IN THYROID OR NODULE SIZE Changes in the size of a nodule may be clinically important, but difficult to perceive clinically. However, sonography can accurately and objectively assess changes in the volume of thyroid nodule(s) and the thyroid gland over a period of time. This is especially important during the course of therapy with thyroid hormone, in patients with a history of exposure to therapeutic irradiation, and when there is a history of thyroid cancer. Interval studies on such patients may be performed without discontinuing thyroid suppressive therapy,
