Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


with a history of exposure to therapeutic irradiation, and when there is a history of thyroid cancer. Interval studies on such patients may be performed without discontinuing thyroid suppressive therapy, administering recombinant human TSH, or any preparation of the patient. Consequently, it is a simple matter to compare serial records, which may lead to changes in thyroid management earlier than palpation alone would warrant. Furthermore, since most patients tend to change doctors and residence over a period of years, an objective assessment of the size and volume of the thyroid gland or nodules will greatly facilitate the continuity of care. Caution is warranted in interpreting the meaning of changes in the volume of thyroid nodules shortly after fine-needle aspiration has been performed. Bi-directional volume changes after the biopsy have been reported ( 151 ). Therefore, it is appropriate to assess nodule size at least weeks after FNA. For the same reason, to assess nodule size after a period of observation or suppressive therapy, the US should be done before another FNA is performed. A Downside to Serial Sonography to Monitor Changes in Thyroid or Nodule Size/Volume Although it makes intuitive sense to repeat sonograms at some interval to detect early evidence of growth or malignant change, there is a downside to this practice too. There is indication that frequent screening with serial neck US is more likely to identify false positive abnormalities rather than significant disease. Therefore, coupling repeat US with clinically suspicious events or examination is warranted ( 152 ). SONOGRAPHY IN THE PATIENT WHO HAD THYROID CANCER Sonography has become a most useful imaging procedure in patients who have had either partial or complete thyroidectomy ( Figure 8 ) ( 153 ). Sonography is done without interrupting the therapy with thyroid hormone, which is used universally in the thyroid cancer patient. One study, in which 110 patients who had partial or total thyroidectomy for thyroid cancer were examined every 1-2 years, showed that ultrasonography is the most sensitive and important way to image postsurgical recurrences of thyroid carcinomas and lymphadenopathy in the neck ( 154 ). This observation is most important because recurrence in the neck is by far the most common location of reappearance of thyroid cancer. The authors suggest routine use of US in these patients. Furthermore, a five-year observational study of 80 patients investigated the optimal initial follow-up strategy for patients who had near total
