Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


The authors suggest routine use of US in these patients. Furthermore, a five-year observational study of 80 patients investigated the optimal initial follow-up strategy for patients who had near total thyroidectomy for papillary thyroid microcarcinomas ( 155 ). Sonography identified lymph node metastases not only in two thyroglobulin-positive patients but also in one thyroglobulin-negative patient. Importantly, after observation for 32 +/- 13 months after surgery, all US node-negative patients had undetectable thyroglobulin levels while on suppressive therapy and US remained negative. In contrast, whole body scanning showed no “pathological” uptake in any patient and was essentially useless, probably because differentiation of postoperative gland-remnants and tumor was not possible. Yet, radioiodine uptake in the region of the thyroid bed did correlate with recombinant human TSH (rhTSH)-stimulated thyroglobulin levels: 1 ng/ml or less in 45 patients without uptake and more than 1 ng/ml in 35 patients with uptake (r = 0.40, P < 0.0001). The authors concluded that in their population, the thyroglobulin probably derived mainly from small normal tissue remnants rather than cancer. Therefore, they contend that mild elevations of thyroglobulin are also of limited diagnostic value. Sonography can detect post-operative thyroid remnants in the thyroid bed and thyroglossal region even when surgeons report a total thyroidectomy. One investigation found US remnants in 34 of 102 cases ( 156 ). This author believes that the frequency of remnants is highly experience- and surgeon-dependent. It is important to appreciate that sonography may yield clinically erroneous or misleading results if it is performed during the initial several months following the surgery. During this time there may be abundant lymph nodes and heterogeneous, sono-dense regions that probably reflect postoperative changes such as edema and inflammation. Sonography may serve to uncover unsuspected disease. After less than total thyroidectomy, sonography will detect nodules in the thyroid remnant, post-operative thyroid bed or in the contra-lateral thyroid lobe, which could be benign tissue or tumor. After total thyroidectomy but not following partial thyroidectomy, nodules and adenopathy are more likely to represent cancer when the concentration of thyroglobulin is elevated. Sonography may detect this disease even before it has grown sufficiently large to be palpable. In patients in whom thyroid carcinoma has been diagnosed as the result of metastases to bone, lung or cervical nodes, sonography can detect an occult thyroid primary cancer even if the thyroid gland is normal to palpation. One investigation has shown that rhTSH-stimulated serum
