Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


to bone, lung or cervical nodes, sonography can detect an occult thyroid primary cancer even if the thyroid gland is normal to palpation. One investigation has shown that rhTSH-stimulated serum thyroglobulin measurements combined with neck ultrasonography has the highest sensitivity in monitoring differentiated thyroid carcinoma in children, and many investigators believe in adults also ( 157 ). One group of investigators has reported that even when thyroglobulin levels remain low or undetectable after stimulation with rhTSH, sonography may identify lymph node metastases from thyroid cancer ( 158 ). It may be difficult to differentiate a suture granuloma from recurrent thyroid cancer. A case report demonstrated a nodule that mimicked recurrent thyroid cancer on sonography and 2-{fluorine-18}-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography, but the diagnosis of a suture granuloma was confirmed by a US-guided fine needle aspiration biopsy ( 159 ). The ultrasonic appearance of suture granulomas includes echogenic foci larger than 1 mm in diameter (p<0.05) that are paired (p<0.05), and usually are clustered centrally or on near the middle of the nodule, unlike those in recurrent carcinomas (p<0.05) ( 160 ). US is useful in the operating room during surgery. Intra-operative ultrasonography may enhance the ability to locate and resect recurrent thyroid cancer that does not accumulate radioactive iodine. Experience in seven patients suggests that sonography was particularly helpful after external beam radiotherapy to identify tumor nodules of 20 mm or less that were invasive or adherent to the airway ( 161 ). One investigation reported that intra-operative ultrasound performed by the surgeon influenced the management in 57 percent (41/72) of patients by identifying non-palpable adenopathy ( 162 ). However, one wonders if resection of non-palpable or even larger deposits of differentiated thyroid cancer will affect outcomes since historically even bilateral radical neck dissection was not associated with enhanced results when compared with thyroidectomy alone. Nevertheless, excision of non-palpable nodules that are in proximity to a vital structure could be palliative if the cancer is removed before it invades. In this author’s opinion intra-operative US could become standard to look for and remove undetected nodes after the surgeon has completed a thyroidectomy for cancer, even after a compartmental node dissection, before “closing”. Preoperative sonography in the cancer patient may be associated with decreased recurrences. One group of investigators studied 275 patients who underwent pre-operative US and had a median follow-up of 41 months. They reported that patients who have had recurrence
