Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


with decreased recurrences. One group of investigators studied 275 patients who underwent pre-operative US and had a median follow-up of 41 months. They reported that patients who have had recurrence of papillary thyroid cancer were at an increased risk for subsequent recurrence of the tumor in the neck. US before the initial operation and followed by compartment-oriented surgery based on the US was related to decreased subsequent recurrence rates ( 162 ). With respect to the lateral compartment of the neck, preoperative US is an excellent predictor of outcome for disease-free interval. Furthermore, a surgical approach based on preoperative US provides excellent long-term regional control ( 163 ). SONOGRAPHY IN CONJUNCTION WITH NEEDLE BIOPSY Fine needle aspiration biopsy of thyroid nodules and adenopathy in adults, children, and adolescents has become a major diagnostic tool that is safe and inexpensive ( 133 , 164-169 ). Major untoward effects are very uncommon and include bleeding (especially in patients who use anticoagulants or antiplatelet agents or those who have a bleeding diathesis), hoarseness, and infection. Many authorities, however, contend that it is reasonably safe to continue anticoagulants, including the newer novel agents, in patients who been taking these medications when performing an FNA ( 170 ). Having seen a few patients who have experienced excessive bleeding as a result of FNA while using aspirin or anticoagulants, it is this author’s practice to discontinue any agent that interferes with coagulation of blood prior to performing and FNA. Actually, there have been very occasional reports of fatal cervical hemorrhage related to FNA ( 171 ). Furthermore, even if there is no increased risk of significant hemorrhage due to FNA, the specimen maybe diluted by unnecessarily abundant red blood cells, complicating cytological interpretation. Seeding the needle track with thyroid cancer is a remote consideration ( 172 , 173 ). Indications The major indications for ultrasound-guided FNA are summarized in Tables 4 and 5 . Ultrasound has made placement of the needle more accurate especially for small or complex nodules or nodes. Cytopathological interpretation is usually clinically satisfactory and promises to improve with tissue marker analysis of specimens ( 174 ). However, the accuracy of the puncture varies considerably depending on factors that are related not only to the operator and the cytologist, but also to the patient. The latter conditions include the size, homogeneity and vascularity of the nodule or node, its location in the neck,
