Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


to the operator and the cytologist, but also to the patient. The latter conditions include the size, homogeneity and vascularity of the nodule or node, its location in the neck, sampling errors, and the habitus of the patient. These issues affect biopsy technique. Table 4. Needle Biopsy with Ultrasound Guidance is Generally Reserved For: View in own window 1. A small nodule in an obese, muscular, or large framed patient. 2. Nodules that are barely palpable or non-palpable 3. Nodule size less than one centimeter. 4. A nodule that is located in the posterior portions of the thyroid gland. 5. A dominant or suspicious nodule within a goiter. 6. All nodules that yielded non-diagnostic results on a free-hand biopsy. 7. Complex degenerated nodules if a prior biopsy without ultrasound guidance has not been diagnostic. 8. Incidentalomas that have been detected ultrasonically in patients with high risk factors for thyroid cancer such as exposure to therapeutic x-ray. 9. Small lymphadenopathy. Table 5. Features That Warrant Percutaneous Fine-Needle Aspiration Biopsy of a “Solitary” Nodule or a “Special” Nodule in A Goiter View in own window 1. Clinical Features a. History of head and neck irradiation in youth b. Family history of medullary (or signs & symptoms) or less so papillary thyroid cancer c. Unusual firmness without calcification d. Growth of nodule especially during suppressive therapy e. Lymphadenopathy 2. Ultrasonic Features (at least two “suspicious” ultrasound features) a. Hypoechoic nodules with one or more of the following i. Irregular margins ii. Enhanced intranodular vascular spots (central vascularity) iii. Microcalcifications (punctate calcifications) iv. Blurred margins v. Taller-than-wide nodule shape vi. Enlargement of a nodule when compared to prior examination b. Lymphadenopathy (palpable or ultrasonographic) 3. In a goiter, biopsy the nodule that has “suspicious” ultrasonographic features rather than the largest nodule. 4. The size or number of nodules in a gland does not correlate with risk factors Methods Thyroid nodules or lymph nodes that are palpable are often biopsied directly. In some cases, correlation of the palpable anatomy with a sonographic film or screen image may be useful. In such cases, for small, complex, or deep nodules, or when a palpation-guided biopsy has resulted in an insufficient specimen, ultrasound-guided fine needle biopsy is employed ( 27 , 175 ), but with added cost ($289 by one estimate ( 176 ) and some inconvenience. Direct, real-time ultrasound guidance improves accuracy in puncturing the nodule. Ultrasound-guided
