Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


( 27 , 175 ), but with added cost ($289 by one estimate ( 176 ) and some inconvenience. Direct, real-time ultrasound guidance improves accuracy in puncturing the nodule. Ultrasound-guided biopsy is always required for impalpable incidentalomas and even then, it is difficult to reliably sample lesions smaller than 10 mm, as discussed previously. Two methods for ultrasound-guided needle biopsy have been suggested: 1) A sonographer manipulates the transducer to locate the nodule and a second physician inserts the needle under direct vision. With practice, the assistance of a second operator is usually not required. 2) A special clamp is used to hold the transducer and fix the direction of insertion of the needle. Both require hand-eye coordination and experience is necessary to identify the spot on the skin over the target nodule to insert the needle. In our practice a dimple is produced on the skin with a blunt 1 mm wooden dowel directly over the nodule as the transducer identifies it. We have not found it appropriate to employ a "permanent marker" for this purpose, as has been suggested ( 177 ). Furthermore, this author finds the holder cumbersome and restrictive and prefers the free hand approach. With the free-hand method, the needle may be inserted parallel to, or at an angle to the ultrasound beam and at a short distance from the transducer, aiming at the nodule. The parallel approach may be technically challenging but is "comforting" to the operator because the image of the needle shaft may be viewed as it traverses the neck and into the nodule. Nevertheless, many experienced operators prefer an oblique to a perpendicular approach because of its simplicity and relatively fewer complications. The needle shaft is not imaged with this technique but its tip is seen as a very bright spot when it crosses the plane of the scan. The tip of the needle must be within the nodule during aspiration. However, even with ultrasound guidance, it is rather difficult to be certain that the tip of the needle is actually within a small nodule at the instant of aspiration, particularly if it is less than 7 or 8 mm in diameter ( Figure 9 ). Figure 9. Sonogram from an ultrasound guided fine needle aspiration biopsy showing a hypoechoic small nodule. The bright spot (above the arrows) is the tip of the needle within the nodule at the instant of
