Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


ultrasound guided fine needle aspiration biopsy showing a hypoechoic small nodule. The bright spot (above the arrows) is the tip of the needle within the nodule at the instant of aspiration. N=nodule. Employing Doppler technique to identify and avoid puncturing blood vessels in the region of a nodule provides a distinct advantage of ultrasound-guided aspiration over palpation-guided biopsy. This precaution reduces the amount of blood in the aspirate and facilitates interpretation of the cytology ( 178 ). The same purpose is served by discontinuing antiplatelet and anticoagulant medication prior to a biopsy. Samples of thyroid nodules and adenopathy may be obtained in either of two ways. One may aspirate the material with a syringe, employing a to and fro motion to produce a large quantity that frequently contains excessive blood, and complicates cytological examination. This author prefers the capillary technique that is done with a 25 or smaller gauge needle (without a syringe) using minimal trauma. The utility of a 27-gauge needle has been validated ( 179 ). Capillary action achieves a small, concentrated sample that remains in the needle shaft. The specimen is then expelled with an air-filled syringe quickly and gently on to a microscope slide ( 180 ). The diagnostic accuracy of the two methods is equivalent ( 181 ). One group has reported that the non-aspiration technique produces specimens of better quality and reduces inadequate results ( 182 ). In this author’s experience, the capillary action aspiration method results in a superior cytological yield and the syringe/larger needle aspiration should be reserved for low-yield or fibrotic lesions. Microscopic assessment of aspirates onsite for adequate cells by a cytologist at the time of the biopsy significantly reduces the number of non-diagnostic reports especially when the operator is not optimally experienced ( 183 ). It is likely that on-site assessment of cytopathologic adequacy of aspirates would help reduce the costs of needle biopsy, reportedly, by as much as 35.5%, by reducing unsatisfactory specimens that are sent to off-site cytologists ( 184 ). Furthermore, in some centers cytologists actually do the aspirations ( 185 ). Ultrasound-guided FNA is an accurate method for identifying suspected recurrence of thyroid cancer in enlarged lymph nodes or in the thyroid bed. Specimens Obtaining material that is sufficient for a reliable cytological diagnosis involves competing realities. It is often necessary to do multiple punctures of a thyroid nodule to obtain enough cells even when
