Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


material that is sufficient for a reliable cytological diagnosis involves competing realities. It is often necessary to do multiple punctures of a thyroid nodule to obtain enough cells even when ultrasound guided aspiration is employed. Yet, the first puncture is likely to be associated with less blood than subsequent samplings and may therefore be the best one for the cytologist to interpret. Especially for small nodules and those that are very vascular, gentle technique and point of service examination of the aspirate with a microscope to assess adequacy are important factors. In some cases when a hematoma has been produced it may be prudent to delay completing the aspiration until another day when the blood has been resorbed. Furthermore, especially when there are only a few benign-looking cells, the clinician should not be convinced that a nodule has been sampled adequately. Rather, a repeat biopsy after an interval of time may be prudent. In contrast, high suspicion is warranted when there are even a few cells that have features that are associated with malignancy. Sometimes cytology cannot suitably assess the pathological potential of a nodule. Such nodules are referred to as Atypia of Unknown Significance (AUS) or Follicular Lesions of Unknown Significance (FLUS), which will be discussed elsewhere. Caution is appropriate in accepting a report of negative cytology when the aspiration was done because a nodule grew during the course of suppressive therapy. Occasionally, when the specimen is inadequate, a better specimen maybe obtained with a needle with a larger lumen ( 186 ). Effectiveness One investigation retrospectively evaluated the effectiveness of ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration, in 37 patients previously treated for thyroid cancer, in identifying as cancer those cervical nodules that were suspicious of recurrence. There were 29 true positives, 6 true negatives, 1 false negative, and 1 inadequate biopsy. Therefore, US-guided biopsy had a sensitivity of 96.7%, a specificity of 100%, and an overall accuracy of 97.2% in detecting recurrence ( 187 ). Caution with Respect to Negative Cytology in Children and Adults When the US is Suspicious In a retrospective investigation of 35 children and adolescents, the global accuracy of FNA was 83%, with a sensitivity of 75%, and a specificity of 94%. Fourteen FNAs suggested malignancy (40%), only 1 of which was a false positive (7%). In significant contrast, 5 of the 21 FNAs suggesting benign lesions were false negatives (24%). These 5 cases had US findings
