Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


only 1 of which was a false positive (7%). In significant contrast, 5 of the 21 FNAs suggesting benign lesions were false negatives (24%). These 5 cases had US findings suggestive of malignancy ( 188 ). Thus, a cautious approach is warranted especially in children when US findings suggest malignancy even if the cytology is benign. In the postoperative thyroid bed, ultrasound-guided FNA may be particularly useful. In one series, among 21 cases there were 15 recurrent cancers, 5 benign nodules such as a parathyroid gland or regenerated normal thyroid, and 1 false positive ( 189 ). There is limited ability to reliably aspirate and accurately diagnose a non-palpable nodule or node even with ultrasound-guidance ( 190 ). Ultrasound-guided cytological diagnosis of non-palpable nodules depends on the size of the lesion. One study suggested that the diagnostic yield of aspirating incidentally discovered, non-palpable 10 mm or larger thyroid nodules was high ( 99 ). Another study found that sampling of material that is adequate for cytological analysis was 64% for a 0.7-cm lesion and it increased to 86.7% when a nodule was 1.1 cm. For nodules that are 1 cm or smaller, the sensitivity was 35.8% and false-negative results were seen in 49.3% ( 108 ). In contrast, similar success has been reported in aspirating nodules that were 4 to 10 mm in size when compared with larger ones ( 191 ). We have had mixed diagnostic success in sampling nodules or nodes as small as 5 mm. A few micro-cancers have been discovered in this way. The cost-effectiveness of aspirating nodules this small is uncertain considering the small (if any) clinical significance of thyroid microcarcinomas. We biopsy small lymph nodes that are “plump”. Generally, the width/depth must be almost 1 cm to yield adequate cells. The cancer-predictive value of measuring thyroglobulin in the wash-out obtained from a cell-poor aspirate of nodes has been mentioned. Assaying thyroglobulin in aspirates from a thyroid nodule is not useful as an index of malignancy. Suspicious Nodules in Goiters It has been reported from a goiter zone in Italy that as many as 52% of histological malignant nodules in goiters were found only with the aid of ultrasound-guided FNAB. Therefore, the authors concluded that ultrasound-guided aspiration should be used in areas where multinodular goiter is endemic to assess nodules that are deemed suspicious by virtue of a hypoechoic pattern, a "blurred halo", micro-calcifications, or
