Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


most likely to be hypoechoic and solid, and have microcalcifications, irregular borders, or central blood flow. Since 125 (31%) of nodules met those criteria, biopsies could be avoided in 69 percent of nodules, incurring a risk of missing 13 percent of the cancers ( 111 ). It would appear that that no single parameter satisfactorily identifies the subset of patients whose nodule should be subjected to biopsy. In one investigation of 6,136 nodules in 4,495 patients, the best compromise between missing cancers and cost-benefit was achieved with at least two “suspicious” ultrasound features. The most useful were nodule shape (taller-than-wide), microcalcifications, blurred margins, and a hypoechoic pattern ( 195 ). Enhanced intranodular blood flow on Doppler examination also was reported as a helpful criterion ( 81 ). Another investigation of 1,141 nodules reported that logistic regression analysis showed that the size of the nodule affected the utility of ultrasonic characteristics of nodules in assessing cancer risk and selection for needle biopsy. In nodules smaller than 15 mm in size, hypoechogenicity (odds ratios, OR: 3.18), microcalcifications (OR: 19.12), solitary occurrence (OR: 3.29) and height-to-width ratio ≥1 (OR: 8.57) were independent risk factors for malignancy. The authors concluded that all lesions presenting at least one of the above-mentioned features should be biopsied (sensitivity 98%, specificity 44%). With nodules larger than 1.5 cm, the mentioned selection criteria were less sensitive than for smaller nodules. Useful features included, hypoechogenicity, taller than wide or microcalcifications (sensitivity 84%, specificity 72%) ( 196 ). It is difficult to decide which nodule in a multinodular goiter to biopsy. Guidelines include selection by size, the ultrasound characteristics mentioned above, and most importantly nodules that are clinically suspicious. Perhaps one may be reassured that the pathology is likely benign when there are very many nodules in a goiter rather than a few. In one investigation of thyroid nodules that underwent ultra-sound-guided FNA, the authors found that the cancer risk is similar for patients with one or two nodules (over 1 cm) and decreases with three or more thyroid nodules ( 197 ). It is particularly difficult to effectively select nodules for biopsy in an endemic goiter zone where nodules are ubiquitous. In one investigation in an iodine deficient region, a numeric score was assigned to nodules based on ultrasonic high-risk of cancer. Among 2,642 consecutive patients (3,645 nodules), nodules with a score of over 5.5 out of 10 had a
