Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


numeric score was assigned to nodules based on ultrasonic high-risk of cancer. Among 2,642 consecutive patients (3,645 nodules), nodules with a score of over 5.5 out of 10 had a 66% sensitivity and a 76% specificity for cancer, which was much higher than for those with lower scores. The data strongly facilitated the decision of which nodules to biopsy ( 94 ). Combining the results of cytology and the tumor marker thyroglobulin after a patient has had a total thyroidectomy may enhance the accuracy of either single predictor of residual/recurrent thyroid cancer. One investigation reported that among 340 consecutive patients with differentiated thyroid carcinoma, who had been treated with near-total thyroidectomy, 131-I thyroid ablation, and TSH suppressive doses of L-thyroxine, rhTSH-stimulated thyroglobulin alone had a diagnostic sensitivity of 85% for detecting active disease and a negative predictive value of 98.2%. After adding the results of neck ultrasound, the sensitivity increased to 96.3%, and the negative predictive value to 99.5% ( 198 ). However, in one study, US and FNA did not seem useful to detect recurrent papillary thyroid cancer when the serum thyroglobulin level was undetectable ( 199 ). One should be somewhat more suspicious that an incidentaloma could be cancerous when the patient has another non-thyroid cancer. In one investigation of 41 patients who had another cancer and who had an incidentally discovered thyroid nodule, surgical pathology revealed 4 papillary thyroid cancers, 4 microscopic papillary thyroid cancers, 2 metastatic cancers, and 7 benign lesions ( 200 ). Not Biopsying Nodules that are Not Likely Malignant by US Criteria Several studies have recognized sonographic morphological patterns that correlate with benign thyroid disease. The authors advise not biopsying these nodules or goiters in the interest of cost-effectiveness ( 201-203 ). In one study, 650 patients were identified for whom both a pathology report and ultrasound images were available. From an alphabetized list, the first 500 nodules were reviewed retrospectively. Most of the diagnoses were based on cytological rather than histological findings. Four patterns associated with benign disease were identified and seemingly attributed to colloid: spongiform configuration, cyst (cystic), a “giraffe pattern” (light blocks separated by black bands), and diffuse hyperechogenicity ( 201 ). One characteristic has borne the test of time: thyroid cancer is rarely if ever hyperechogenic. It is useful to know that one group has reported that not performing a biopsy on nodules less than 5 mm in size
