Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


thyroid cancer is rarely if ever hyperechogenic. It is useful to know that one group has reported that not performing a biopsy on nodules less than 5 mm in size seemed safe because when they underwent later surgery because of a 2 or 3 mm enlargement, there was no evidence of distant metastases or fatalities ( 204 ). The rationale supplied by the authors ( 201 , 204 ) for not biopsying these nodules is that fewer biopsies, will lead to less delay of “necessary” biopsies and less false-positives. This author completely agrees with not biopsying non-suspicious nodules unless there are other factors that indicate cancer-risk. Fortunately, small low risk nodules generally do not adversely affect quality of life or survival. However, the practical outcome of this “leave the nodule alone” philosophy may result in a mind-set that, in this author’s opinion, should be avoided. The difference between focusing clinical attention on biopsying suspicious nodules and confidently dismissing nodules that “can be left alone” may result in a difference in the risk of missing a cancer. The outcome of the difference is similar to misjudging that a dog may bite , and giving it wide berth to avoid getting bitten, and mistaking that a dog does not bite and getting mauled. Thus, I feel that we should not use tentative data from limited investigation to make a pivotal decision not to biopsy certain thyroid nodules and selection against surgery. A simple, logical, safe, inexpensive, and more reliable clinical attitude is employing sonography to enhance the efficiency and accuracy of biopsying ultrasonically suspicious nodules and nodules that have clinical or historical features that are associated with higher than average cancer-risk, and paying reasonable but not invasive attention to the rest of the nodules and the gland as a whole. If the pattern approach to selecting nodules not to biopsy is employed by ultrasonographers, they should be cognizant that cancerous thyroid nodules in a radiation-exposed population may often not exhibit the classic ultrasonic features of malignancy. Rather, benign characteristics are more often encountered. Therefore in this setting especially, benign-looking nodules should be biopsied and not “left alone” ( 205 ). Repeat Aspiration Biopsy in Patients with a Previously Benign Result There is no consensus about how often FNA should be repeated after previous aspirations have indicated benign disease. Considerations that enter the decision include periodic US, historical risk factors, changes in physical
