Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


no consensus about how often FNA should be repeated after previous aspirations have indicated benign disease. Considerations that enter the decision include periodic US, historical risk factors, changes in physical examination, and even the patient’s or the physician’s level of anxiety. It seems reasonable that growth of the volume of the nodule, the emergence of adenopathy, or symptoms that suggest pressure on cervical structures such as hoarseness or dysphasia should be viewed with suspicion. Sometimes the observations of an ENT consultant may influence management. In this author’s experience routine re-aspiration rarely results in a discovery of malignancy. In a retrospective review of records of patients seen at the Mayo Clinic between January 2003 and December 2013 of 334 nodules with benign FNA, 85.3% were benign, 7.2% suspicious, 5.7% non-diagnostic, and 1.8% malignant. Importantly, the repeat FNA altered clinical management in only 9.5% of cases ( 206 ). Non-Cytologic Examination of Aspirates Ultrasound-guided aspiration can facilitate biochemical analysis. Needle washings of adenopathy (not applicable to thyroid nodules) may contain Tg, revealing papillary thyroid cancer even when there are insufficient or inadequate cells. It is noteworthy that assay of Tg in tissue is reportedly not effected by serum anti-thyroglobulin antibodies ( 207 ). Furthermore, the aspirate of nodules or lymph nodes may contain calcitonin in medullary cancer, a tumor marker such as galectin-3 ( 208 ) in papillary thyroid cancer, or lead to a non-neoplastic diagnosis such as tuberculosis ( 209 ) or amyloidosis ( 210 ). One anticipates that one day aspirates may be studied routinely for biochemical products, sub-cellular components, and, bacteriologic, fungal, or viral material. Examination for molecular genetic tumor markers will be discussed elsewhere. Core Biopsy There is also interest in sonographically-guided core biopsy of thyroid nodules. One group has concluded that percutaneous acquisition of tissue for histological rather than cytological evaluation is an accurate and safe alternative to aspiration biopsy in the assessment of thyroid nodules ( 211 ). However, one needs to be aware that there may be greater risk from core biopsy, including an occasional fatal case, in contrast to fine needle aspiration biopsy ( 170 ). Other investigators have reported on the use of an ultrasound-guided special compound needle that can accomplish both aspiration and core biopsy and suggest its use when prior aspiration has been unsuccessful ( 212 ). SONOGRAPHY BY THE THYROID SURGEON Although preoperative thyroid ultrasonography is not essential for successful
