Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


and core biopsy and suggest its use when prior aspiration has been unsuccessful ( 212 ). SONOGRAPHY BY THE THYROID SURGEON Although preoperative thyroid ultrasonography is not essential for successful surgery, many surgeons have come to recognize that it may be useful to identify pre-operatively suspicious lymph nodes in patients with biopsy-proven papillary thyroid cancer. Indeed, respected surgical authorities assert that ultrasound is an essential modality in the evaluation of thyroid malignancy and that surgeon-performed ultrasound has proved invaluable in the preoperative, intraoperative and postoperative setting ( 213-215 ). It has become increasingly popular for surgeons personally to perform a pre-operative sonogram since metastatic disease may not be clinically apparent to them intra-operatively. Preoperative identification of metastatic disease by cervical ultrasound may result in altering the surgical approach in as many as 40 percent of patients ( 27 , 28 , 97 , 192 , 216 , 217 ). Furthermore, pre-operative thyroid ultrasonography followed by compartment-oriented surgery may decrease recurrence rates in patients if performed before their primary operation ( 162 ). It is noteworthy that ultrasound guided FNA for thyroid nodules has been incorporated into some general surgery residency programs. ( 218 ). Preoperative Labeling Lymph Nodes or Intraoperative US may Facilitate Intraoperative Identification and Removal of Adenopathy It may be difficult for a surgeon to identify at surgery a small node that was discovered by preoperative ultrasonography. Insertion of a hook 20-gauge needle into a US-suspicious lymph node pre-operatively facilitates identification and removal of the pathological lesion ( 219-221 ). Alternatively, pre-incision, ultrasound-guided injection of blue dye into abnormal lymph nodes was very useful in the re-operative neck to facilitate their safe and efficient removal in one study ( 222 ). Other investigations have employed ultrasound-guided, preoperative injection of charcoal suspensions to tattoo the lesion. The rate of success is reportedly as high as 84-96% in small studies. However, in 1 case the charcoal was found several centimeters away from the lesion, tattooing a lesion behind a large blood vessel has not been achieved, and in 2 of 55 patients a charcoal dot remained in the skin after the procedure. There were no reported serious adverse effects ( 223 , 224 ). In strong contrast to this approach, other surgeons eschew selective removal of nodes in favor of classical compartmental dissection. Intraoperative sonography may be very useful ( 161 , 225 , 226 ). In 26 of 31
