Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


other surgeons eschew selective removal of nodes in favor of classical compartmental dissection. Intraoperative sonography may be very useful ( 161 , 225 , 226 ). In 26 of 31 patients with papillary thyroid cancer who had preoperative sonographic identification of adenopathy, intraoperative palpation did not locate adenopathy but intraoperative ultrasonography located and facilitated removal of the lesions (smaller than 10 mm in diameter) in all patients ( 225 ). A method that may help find a thyroid sentinel node preoperatively has been reported in a porcine experimental model. US contrast agent and methylene blue dye were injected trans-cutaneously into the thyroid glands of pigs and draining lymphatic channels and sentinel lymph nodes were identified ultrasonically. Subsequently, a sentinel node biopsy was conducted; bilateral neck and upper mediastinal dissection was performed. The lympho-sonography of the thyroid gland in this porcine model correlated well with blue dye-guided sentinel node surgical biopsy. If applied to humans, this technique might potentially enable a detailed analysis of thyroidal lymphatic drainage and enhance thyroid cancer surgery ( 227 ). SONOGRAPHY IN CONJUNCTION WITH PERCUTANEOUS THERAPEUTIC INTERVENTION After an aspiration and cytology have demonstrated that a nodule is benign, ultrasound-guided puncture of a nodule may have a role in therapy to deliver medication or other therapy precisely into the lesion and to spare the surrounding tissue. Percutaneous injection of ethanol has been used to reduce the function of autonomous thyroid nodules ( 228 ). One investigation has observed 34 patients, for up to three years, who had percutaneous ethanol injection of autonomous thyroid nodules. The patients required 1-11 sessions of 3-14 ml of ethanol injection (total amount of ethanol per patient: 20-125 ml). The authors report recovery of extra-nodular uptake on isotope scan and normalization of TSH levels within 3 months from the end of the treatment in 30/34 patients and an average reduction in nodule volume of 62.9%. 4/34 patients were refractory to the treatment, 3 of whom had had nodule volumes > 60 ml. There were no recurrences during 6 to 36 months of observation ( 229 ). Another study examined 20 patients with autonomous thyroid nodules for 763 +/- 452 days after ethanol injection. A mean of 2.85 +/- 1.1 injections per patient, and a mean volume of 4.63 ml of ethanol were required (nodule volume-dependent). After a mean time of 50 +/- 23 days TSH normalized and was maintained in 16 patients
