Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


and a mean volume of 4.63 ml of ethanol were required (nodule volume-dependent). After a mean time of 50 +/- 23 days TSH normalized and was maintained in 16 patients (80%), whose nodular volume reduced 60.8%. Four patients (20%) did not completely respond to the treatment ( 230 ). Less impressive but “clinically acceptable” results have also been observed in a study that reported a "complete cure" in only 22 of 42 patients (52%), mainly in small nodules, and little or no hormonal response in 4 patients (9%). However, nodule volume decreased in all cases and there were no recurrences or serious adverse effects ( 231 ). In the reported series, "mild to moderate" local pain often occurred after the injections and lasted a day or two. Local hematomas were seen. Major complications like permanent dysphonia or vascular thrombosis seem to be very uncommon. However, transient paralysis of the recurrent laryngeal nerve may occur. Thus this technique may be an option for large, but not very large autonomous nodules that cannot or should not be treated surgically or with I-131 ( 232 ). Percutaneous injection of ethanol has also been used to treat toxic nodular goiter ( 231 , 233 ) and thyroid masses that are recurrent after non-toxic nodular goiters have been treated surgically ( 233 ), with results that are similar to those described above. Recurrent cysts, and cystic spaces in a degenerated solid lesion have been obliterated in this fashion ( 234 , 235 ). Perhaps the procedure will have use in cosmetically unacceptable or very large structures. Prospective studies will be required to ascertain if ultrasound-guided placement of medication will reduce the intensity or duration of pain after the injection and improve success over palpation-directed injection. Sonographically guided percutaneous ethanol injection is a treatment option for patients with cervical nodal metastases from papillary thyroid cancer that are not amenable to further surgical or radioiodine therapy. In a study of 21 metastatic nodes in 14 patients, all treated lymph nodes decreased in volume, some impressively. No major complications occurred in this series ( 116 ). Yet, in other studies severe untoward effects have been reported including necrosis of the larynx and adjacent skin due to ethyl alcohol ( 236 ). It seems that this option may be palliative when there are large nodes that threaten to impact on surrounding structures. However, since ethanol-treated nodes may increase in
