Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


1 month and to 4.5±9.8 ml at the last month ( 241 ). The thyroid function tests improved significantly and 35 of the hot nodules became cold or normal when followed by scintigraphy, and 9 had a decreased uptake. There were no major complications. Several studies have shown that radiofrequency ablation may be an alternative to active surveillance for papillary thyroid microcarcinomas (PTMC). For example, in a study involving 107 patients, the mean volume reduction ratio at 18 months was 0.999 ± 0.002 (range: 0.992-1) at 12 months ( 242 ). Thyroid function tests remained normal, and there was no tumor regrowth, local recurrence, or distant metastases during follow-up visits. In an Korean study with 152 biopsy-proven PTMCs from 133 patients complete disappearance was found in 91.4% (139/152) of ablated tumors (mean follow-up 39 months) ( 243 ). All patients were either of high surgical risk or refused to undergo surgery. In the 13 tumors that did not show complete disappearance, none of the PTMC showed regrowth of the residual ablated lesion during the follow-up period, and there were no local recurrences, lymph node or distant metastases in any of the patients. The complication rate was 3% (4/133), including one voice change. SONOGRAPHY TO DISCOVER PELVIC THYROID TISSUE Trans-vaginal and trans-abdominal pelvic sonography has been employed to identify a 16 cm mass in the right adnexa that was a cystic teratoma, a struma ovarii, containing a 5 mm focus of papillary cancer within the thyroid tissue ( 244 ). SONOGRAPHY OF THE FETAL THYROID Ultrasonography in pregnancy can be become a helpful tool to assess thyroid status in utero . Gestational age-dependent and age-independent nomograms for fetal thyroid size have been developed by performing ultrasonograms in 200 fetuses between 16 and 37 weeks of gestation ( 245 ). Fetal hyperthyroidism can be detected by the presence of increased blood flow within a goiter in contrast to peripheral vascularity when goiters are associated with hypothyroidism ( 246 ). Fetal goiters and hypothyroidism have been studied, and successful treatment has been reported ( 247 ). It is thought that intrauterine recognition and treatment of congenital goitrous hypothyroidism may reduce obstetric complications and improve the prognosis for normal growth and mental development of affected fetuses. One report cited a fetal goiter diagnosed at 29 weeks of gestation during routine ultrasound examination. Fetal blood sampling performed at this time documented fetal hypothyroidism and treatment
