Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


affected fetuses. One report cited a fetal goiter diagnosed at 29 weeks of gestation during routine ultrasound examination. Fetal blood sampling performed at this time documented fetal hypothyroidism and treatment was given using a series of intra-amniotic injections of tri-iodothyronine and subsequently, thyroxine. Following birth, neonatal serum TSH levels were within the reference range ( 248 ). A case of fetal goitrous hypothyroidism associated with high-output cardiac failure was diagnosed at 32 weeks of gestation based on ultrasound examination. The fetus' thyroid function was examined by amniocentesis and cordocentesis. The fetus was treated by injection of L-thyroxine into the amniotic fluid at 33 weeks of gestation. Thereafter, the goiter decreased in size, and the high-output cardiac failure improved ( 249 ). Similarly, fetal goiter and hypothyroidism that resulted from the treatment of maternal Graves’ disease with propylthiouracil was diagnosed with trans-vaginal US and treated by levothyroxine injection into the amniotic fluid. Successful ultrasound-facilitated treatment of fetal goitrous hypothyroidism has been reported in 12 cases ( 250 ). Assessing the fetal thyroid size ultrasonically may also be beneficial in adjusting the dose of antithyroid drug in mothers with Graves’ disease and in preventing fetal and neonatal goiter and hypothyroidism, as discussed before ( 67 ). In addition, determining fetal thyroid size with ultrasonography in mothers with a history of Graves' disease has been reported to facilitate achieving normal fetal thyroid function ( 251 ). SONOGRAPHY OF THE THYROID IN THE NEWBORN There are several uses of ultrasonography in newborn infants. Normative data in 100 (49 male) healthy term Scottish neonates showed a mean thyroid length of 1.94 cm (SD 0.24, range 0.9-2.5), width of 0.88 cm (SD 0.16, range 0.5-1.4), depth of 0.96 cm (SD 0.17, range 0.6-2.0), and volume of 0.81 ml (SD 0.24, range 0.3-1.7) ( 252 ). There was considerable variation (-0.8 to + 0.7 ml) between the two lobes in individual babies. Another investigation revealed that the ratio of thyroid width to tracheal width is a simple, practical parameter for estimating the size of the thyroid gland in neonates and small children ( 253 ). In permanent primary congenital hypothyroidism, ultrasonography has been reported to identify 66 instances where the thyroid gland was not located in the usual anatomical position and hemiagenesis in one case. The diagnosis was confirmed by scintigraphy. The authors concluded that sonography might be used as the first imaging tool in patients with
