Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


usual anatomical position and hemiagenesis in one case. The diagnosis was confirmed by scintigraphy. The authors concluded that sonography might be used as the first imaging tool in patients with congenital hypothyroidism, but scintigraphy should be used to distinguish agenesis from ectopia ( 254 ). EPIDEMIOLOGICAL USE OF ULTRASONOGRAPHY Ultrasonography has been used effectively even in the field in undeveloped areas to evaluate thyroid anatomy and size in iodine-deficient regions or to search for cancer in radiation-exposed populations. Inter-observer agreement on estimates of thyroid volume has been good in epidemiologic studies but agreement on echogenicity has been poor ( 29 ). One study has revealed that in the Chernobyl population thyroid cancers often exhibit benign ultrasound characteristics, that malignant features are uncommonly encountered, and as many nodules as is feasible should be biopsied ( 205 ). Correlation of age, body size and thyroid volume in endemic goiter areas have been reported ( 255 ). Data for thyroid volumes that are specific to a geographic region, iodine status, sex, and pubertal stage may be more appropriate than a single age-specific international reference ( 256 , 257 ). Systematic ultrasound screening has been found useful in Belarus for the early detection of thyroid carcinoma in children 4-14 years of age who were exposed to radioactive fallout due to the Chernobyl accident ( 258 ). After the nuclear accident in the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant, large-scale ultrasound screening has been implemented (for review see ( 259 )). This led to a high rate of detection of thyroid cancer in younger individuals within the studied cohort of approximately 300,000 subjects in Fukushima prefecture. This observation resulted in significant concerns in the population because it was felt that these cancers might have been caused by radiation. The current evidence indicates, however, that these findings are largely explained by the effect of screening. Ultrasonography has also shown that the prevalence of thyroid cancer has not increased in a population exposed to the accidental release of I-131 in Hanford, Washington during 1944-1957 ( 260 ). Ultrasonography has also been used to monitor thyroid nodule development among workers in nuclear power plants ( 261 ). The value of ultrasonographic mass screening to uncover thyroid carcinoma depends on the cancer-risk status of the population. In a population with average cancer risk the value of screening is controversial because of the presumed low benefit/cost of the screening as contrasted
