Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


the cancer-risk status of the population. In a population with average cancer risk the value of screening is controversial because of the presumed low benefit/cost of the screening as contrasted with subsequent discovery of the small number of tumors that will progress to palpable, clinical, but low-virulence tumor. One group studied 1401 women who were scheduled to undergo a breast examination. Thyroid nodules were detected in 25.2% and thyroid cancer in 2.6% of all subjects. The size of the tumors was significantly smaller in the ultrasound-studied group than that of a clinically detected cancer group (P < 0.05) ( 262 ). Another group studied thyroid sonography in 5549 patients who were undergoing breast sonography. Forty-two (0.76%) thyroid cancers were found; all were papillary carcinomas. The incidence of thyroid cancer was significantly higher in the group with breast cancer than in the group who did not have breast cancer ( 37 ). In contrast, epidemiologic investigation of the long-term risk of developing thyroid cancer has been useful in a population with a higher risk of cancer such as irradiated people. In a prospective ultrasound examination of 2637 atomic-bomb survivors the hazard ratio for cancer development was significantly high at 23.6 (95% confidence interval, 7.6-72.8) and even higher, 40.2 (95%, confidence interval, 9.4-173.0) in 31 people who initially had cytologically benign solid nodules. The hazard ratio was only 2.7 (95% confidence interval, 0.3-22.2) in 121 subjects who had thyroid “cysts”. Importantly, sex, age, TSH level, thyroglobulin level, radiation dose, nodule volume, and increase in nodule volume did not predict cancer development in the solid nodule group but sonography did reveal the risk of cancer ( 263 ). ELASTOGRAPHY Ultrasonography can estimate the rigidity or stiffness of tissue, which is called elastography. The deformability of a tissue may be assessed from a change in Doppler signal in response to externally applied pressure or vibrations, or by tracking shear wave propagation. This phenomenon may correlate with palpable consistency and cytology of a nodule or goiter. The technique may enhance the cancer-predictive value of sonography of non-cystic non-calcified thyroid nodules ( 75 , 264-267 ). However, it is premature to judge the clinical value of the test and the literature contains controversial data. One retrospective investigation revealed that among 16 malignant and 20 benign thyroid nodules elastography correlated with FNA in a sensitivity of 100% and specificity of 75.6% in detecting malignant thyroid nodules (
