Ultrasonography of the Thyroid
KEYWORDS: thyroid, nodules, patients, pubmed, cancer, nodule, ultrasound, journal, thyroid nodules, sonography, biopsy, thyroid cancer, nodes, ultrasonography, american


investigation revealed that among 16 malignant and 20 benign thyroid nodules elastography correlated with FNA in a sensitivity of 100% and specificity of 75.6% in detecting malignant thyroid nodules ( 267 ). Other investigators reported that elastography is not able to select cancers among follicular lesions of indeterminate significance ( 268 ). Elastography was not very useful in detecting thyroid cancer in patients affected by Hashimoto’s thyroiditis ( 269 ). Elastography may be useful in the diagnosis of inflammatory conditions of the thyroid like sub-acute thyroiditis ( 270 ). OTHER USES OF ULTRASONOGRAPHY There have been other novel and inventive applications of ultrasound to thyroidology and the list grows. Just as medical practices have evolved as a result of sonography, surgical techniques may change as well, as was discussed previously. Intra-operative diagnostic sonography is already used in the patient with thyroid cancer and one suspects that it will impact favorably on surgical methods, complications and outcome. Another example of the potential is a recent report that used ultrasonography to demonstrate that routine insertion of drains into the thyroid bed to prevent formation of hematoma or seroma following thyroid surgery may not be necessary. The authors contended that not draining the wound did not adversely influence the volume of the sequestered fluid (p = 0.313) and actually was beneficial by reducing morbidity and decreasing hospital stay (p = 0.007) ( 271 ). Thyroid sonography may also be useful before neck surgery for non-thyroid disease. In a retrospective study of 1200 consecutive patients who were treated surgically for primary head and neck tumors and who had routine preoperative neck ultrasound by the surgeon, 47%, (477/1195) of the patients had coexisting thyroid disease. Preoperative fine-needle biopsy of sonographically detected thyroid nodules was performed in 20%, which was cost-effective in limiting concomitant thyroid surgery to fewer patients (6%; 21/350) ( 272 ). Ultrasonic energy can be used therapeutically to destroy tissue, as discussed previously, and also to activate mechanical equipment. An example of the latter is ultrasonically activated shears for thyroidectomy that have been reported not to increase complications, shorten operative time, improve cosmetic results, and reduce the patient’s pain, without greater expense than conventional methods ( 273 ). An ultrasonically activated scalpel significantly improved bleeding control during thyroid resections and may also be beneficial with respect to cost containment by reducing operative time ( 274 ). Ultrasound-guided percutaneous interventional procedures to deliver medications,
