Bükülmez et al. BMC Complementary Medicine and Therapies (2025) 25:5 BMC Complementary
KEYWORDS: herbal, children, parents, functional, used, use, supplements, tea, disorders, gastrointestinal, study, herbs, herbal tea, herbal supplements, gastrointestinal disorders


feel they have control over their own included in the study. At the time of data collection, a past started with trial and error or observation of the clinic and 255 patients with FGID who were followed up environment, but today we know that they have proven by a pediatric gastroenterologist were admitted to the ucts produced from these plants in a controlled and agreed to participate in the study. Data were collected standardized manner, which are scientifically proven face-to-face using a form created by the researchers. to be beneficial, should only be used with the advice of Before data collection, parents were informed about the or regain health. Unconscious use of herbs should be avoided to protect against possible harmful effects of Data collection tools herbs (chemicals in their composition, production in The questionnaire consists of three parts. All forms were unsuitable environments, interactions, etc.) [12–14]. In created by the researchers. The first questionnaire form to solve gastrointestinal problems is becoming increas- questions for parents who agreed to participate in the ingly important. As parents look for alternative and natu- study. In the second questionnaire form, a section on the ral remedies, it is becoming very important to explore of determination of gastrointestinal disorders was created herbal supplements. The increasing use of natural prod- according to the classification of functional and func- ucts may highlight the need for more research and guid- tional gastrointestinal disorders for children based on ance in these areas. Therefore, parental preferences can ROME IV criteria (Drossman, 2016) using the relevant be an important indicator for the development of better literature. In this section, 7 diagnoses for infants, 4 diag- understanding, treatment, and prevention strategies in noses for toddlers and 12 diagnoses for children over 4 the health sector. years of age were presented and parents were asked to Therefore, it is of great importance to identify herbal mark the diagnosis their children received according supplements and food supplements used in childhood. to their age group. In the third questionnaire form, the In this study, it was aimed to determine the use of herbal names of the 20 most commonly used herbs in gastroin- supplements by parents for the treatment of gastro intes- testinal disorders were given by reviewing the literature. tinal problems in their children on the basis of evidence- In this section, a table was prepared to determine the based use of medicinal
