Bükülmez et al. BMC Complementary Medicine and Therapies (2025) 25:5 BMC Complementary
KEYWORDS: herbal, children, parents, functional, used, use, supplements, tea, disorders, gastrointestinal, study, herbs, herbal tea, herbal supplements, gastrointestinal disorders


were given by reviewing the literature. tinal problems in their children on the basis of evidence- In this section, a table was prepared to determine the based use of medicinal plants, as well as to determine the herbal supplements used by the parents. A survey form types of these supplements. has been prepared for use in this study. This form has not been used in any other study before (See the supplemen- Materials and methods tary file). The selected herbal supplements are products were sought to the questions determined in order to the relevant literature. This information was obtained determine the herbs and herbal supplements that parents from databases such as PubMed and Google Scholar. frequently use to cope with gastro-intestinal problems of their children with Functional Gastrointestinal Disor- ders (FGID). For this purpose, answers to the following research questions were sought: Inclusion criteria adolescence (> 4 years). 33.3% of parents reported using ginger for their children who were in infancy and expe- 1. Parents participating in the study must have riencing infantile regurgitation. For infants with persis- a medical diagnosis confirming their child’s tent vomiting, 33.3% of parents reported using “fennel” gastrointestinal disorders. and 33.3% reported using “ginger”. 29.4% of parents used 2. Parents must be willing to share their experiences “fennel” for infantile colic. Among parents whose chil- with using herbal supplements. dren had “functional diarrhea”, 28.5% used “turmeric”. 3. The children of the participating parents must be For “dyskinesia” in infancy, 35% of parents reported using between the ages of 0 and 18. “spearmint”. Most of the supplements used by parents for their children were given as “herbal tea”. They stated that Exclusion criteria they gave olive oil to their children orally with a teaspoon. Ginger and turmeric powder was preferred to be mixed 1. Parents who have chosen to use only herbal with honey in older children, while it was preferred to supplements instead of medical treatment for their be given as tea with hot water in children under 4 years child’s gastrointestinal disorders have been excluded. of age. It was stated that “black cumin oil” was admin- 2. Parents who do not have sufficient knowledge about istered by giving 1–2 drops orally. Other herbs such as the efficacy or safety of herbal supplements have “fennel”, “spearmint”, “cumin”, “common lady’s mantle”, been excluded from the study. “chamomile”, “thyme” was brewed in hot water and used as
