Bükülmez et al. BMC Complementary Medicine and Therapies (2025) 25:5 BMC Complementary
KEYWORDS: herbal, children, parents, functional, used, use, supplements, tea, disorders, gastrointestinal, study, herbs, herbal tea, herbal supplements, gastrointestinal disorders


as the efficacy or safety of herbal supplements have “fennel”, “spearmint”, “cumin”, “common lady’s mantle”, been excluded from the study. “chamomile”, “thyme” was brewed in hot water and used as tea (infusion). Parents reported applying “cantoron oil” Data analysis by massaging the baby’s abdomen. Details of other pre- Statistical analyses were performed using the SPSS (IBM ferred herbs FGID in infancy and childhood are shown SPSS Statistics 24) package program. Frequency tables in Table 4. and descriptive statistics were used to interpret the findings. Parents’ preferred herbs for children with functional gastrointestinal disorders in children and adolescents Ethical considerations The most preferred herb by parents for their children This study was approved by the Afyonkarahisar Health with FGID (children and adolescents) was spearmint Sciences University Clinical Research Ethics Commit- (28.9%). " Spearmint " was the most preferred herb for tee (2021/6) and a written consent form was furnished complaints such as persistent vomiting, nausea and vom- to respondents for review and signature before starting iting, functional dyspepsia, irritable bowel syndrome, interviews. All participants have given informed consent. abdominal migraine and other abdominal pain, and con- Before data collection, parents were informed about the stipation. The parents stated that they applied spearmint, study and informed consent was obtained. chamomile, cumin, fennel, lemon balm, sage, cinnamon, milk thistle, marshmallow, senna, linden, thyme, echi- Results nacea, immortelle, licorice and apricot as tea. Olive oil Descriptive characteristics of the participants and banana were consumed orally, while castor oil and A total of 216 parents of children with FGID participated St. John’s Worth oil were applied by massaging the abdo- in the study. 79.2% of the participants were mothers and men. Ginger and turmeric were mixed with honey and 42.1% had children between 5 and 10 years of age. 80.6% black cumin seed was given orally as oil to older children of the participants did not have a child with a chronic (adolescents). Parents’ preferred herbs for children with disease and 50% of these participants were from families functional gastrointestinal disorders in children and ado- with two children. 57.9% of the participants (125 people) lescents are given in Table 5. reported that their child had previously used supple- Discussion ments with herbal ingredients. 40% of the participants stated that they used herbs or herbal supplements on the Gastro-intestinal problems experienced during child- recommendation of a herbalist. Participants who used hood can be challenging and reduce
