Bükülmez et al. BMC Complementary Medicine and Therapies (2025) 25:5 BMC Complementary
KEYWORDS: herbal, children, parents, functional, used, use, supplements, tea, disorders, gastrointestinal, study, herbs, herbal tea, herbal supplements, gastrointestinal disorders


a major problem; therefore, it is in treating intestinal disorders . important to highlight the need for authentic herbal In a study conducted in Indonesia, parents used a products to ensure their quality and effectiveness. mixture of guava leaves, turmeric, and black tea for tra- Parents should understand how critical it is to seek ditional diarrhea treatment, aligning with the use of tur- professional advice when using herbal supplements. This meric in our study . Turmeric, particularly its active is necessary to minimize risks related to both safety and component curcumin, is known for its anti-inflammatory efficacy. Professional guidance is crucial for the correct properties and potential benefits in managing inflam- use of herbal products and for preventing potential side matory bowel diseases, although its safety for children effects. Therefore, clearly highlighting the role of profes- remains uncertain [37–41]. Peppermint tea was used by sional guidance in the use of herbal supplements and the 43.75% of parents for cyclic vomiting syndrome, func- protective measures it provide will help parents make tional nausea, irritable bowel syndrome, abdominal informed and safe decisions. migraine, functional abdominal pain, and functional con- Investigating the long-term effects of herbal supple- stipation. Despite the lack of clinical studies on pepper- ment use in children or exploring methods for healthcare mint tea’s use for these conditions, it is known to aid in providers to educate parents more effectively could con- gastrointestinal disorders . Spearmint was tribute to a better understanding of this area. also commonly used, with no prior studies specifically Abbreviations documenting its use for these conditions, making this ROME-IV The Rome IV criteria system was developed to classify the study novel in recording its application. For functional functional gastrointestinal disorders based on their clinical symptoms dyspepsia, both mint and fennel were used, with fennel EMA European Medicines Agency shown to have a carminative effect [44–46]. Experimen- ESCOP European Scientific Cooperative for Phytomedicines tal studies have validated fennel’s effectiveness, and both FGID Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders CAM Complementary and Alternative Medicine fennel and peppermint are recognized for treating gas- trointestinal issues . Chamomile and spearmint Supplementary Information were used for fecal incontinence, with chamomile recog- The online version contains supplementary material available at h t t p s : / / d o i . o r nized by the FDA as generally safe but occasionally caus- g / 1 0 . 1 1 8 6 / s
