Bükülmez et al. BMC Complementary Medicine and Therapies (2025) 25:5 BMC Complementary
KEYWORDS: herbal, children, parents, functional, used, use, supplements, tea, disorders, gastrointestinal, study, herbs, herbal tea, herbal supplements, gastrointestinal disorders


: / / d o i . o r nized by the FDA as generally safe but occasionally caus- g / 1 0 . 1 1 8 6 / s 1 2 9 0 6 - 0 2 4 - 0 4 7 3 3 - 6 . ing allergic reactions . Despite limited data on chamomile’s safety for infants, it is traditionally used for Supplementary Material 1 gastrointestinal relief . All supplements used for aero- phagia have known therapeutic effects, though safety and Acknowledgements efficacy data for children are limited. Not applicable. Conclusion Author contributions Concept – AB, AK, MTB; Design – AB, AK, MTB; Supervision – AB, AK; Resources Little is known about the use, benefits, and risks of herbs –AB, MTB; Materials – AN, AK; Data Collection and/or Processing – AB, AK, MTB; and herbal supplements in the pediatric population. The Analysis and/or Interpretation – AB, AK, MTB; Search – AB, AK, MTB; Writing Manuscript – AB, AK; Critical Review – AB, AK, MTB. use of herbs and herbal supplements is a cause for con- cern, as there is not yet clear and accurate information on Funding the use of herbal supplements in children. In this study, This research received no specific grant from any funding agency in the public. 57.9% of parents reported that they preferred herbs or herbal supplements for their children. However, 40% of Data availability the participants stated that they used herbs on the recom- The data supporting the conclusions of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request. mendation of herbalists. As a result of this study, it was revealed that parents are inclined to use herbs or herbal Declarations supplements, need education on the use of these supple- ments, and need access to the right herb and reliable sup- Ethical approval plements derived from the right herb. In this direction, Ethics committee approval was received for this study from the ethics parents should be trained on the supply and use of herbs. 2021, Decision No. 2021/6). All methods were carried out in accordance with The risk of herbs or herbal supplements interacting with Declaration of Helsinki. Before data collection, parents were informed about medicines used by children is also a worrying issue. For the study and informed consent was obtained. this reason, parents should use herbs and herbal supple- Consent for publication other healthcare professional. The use of
