Athlete’s Heart
KEYWORDS: heart, athlete, cardiomyopathy, athlete heart, exercise, ecg, ventricular, cardiac, changes, left, blood, pressure, stress, diastolic, blood pressure


a fourth heart sound (S4) is almost always abnormal in an athlete. Diagnosis of Athlete’s Heart Clinical evaluation Usually ECG Sometimes echocardiography Rarely, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging Rarely, stress testing Findings are typically detected during routine screening or during evaluation of unrelated symptoms. Most athletes do not require extensive testing, although ECG is often warranted. If symptoms suggest a cardiac disorder (eg, palpitations, chest pain), ECG, echocardiography, and exercise stress testing are done. Athlete's heart is a diagnosis of exclusion; it must be distinguished from disorders that cause similar findings but are life threatening (eg, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, dilated cardiomyopathy, ischemic heart disease [eg, coronary artery disease], arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy—[1]). Cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging may be helpful when findings from other diagnostic modalities are inconclusive. Sometimes a trial of deconditioning is required to differentiate athlete's heart from cardiomyopathy. ECG Numerous changes in rhythm and ECG morphology can occur; they correlate poorly with level of training and cardiovascular performance. The most common ECG finding is 2/7 Sinus bradycardia Rarely, heart rate is < 40 beats/minute. Sinus arrhythmia often accompanies the slow heart rate. Resting bradycardia may also predispose to Atrial or ventricular ectopy (including couplets and bursts of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia); pauses after ectopic beats do not exceed 4 seconds Wandering atrial (supraventricular) pacemaker Other ECG findings that may occur include First-degree atrioventricular (AV) block (in up to one-third of athletes) Second-degree AV block (mainly type I); this finding occurs during rest and disappears with exercise High-voltage QRS with inferolateral T-wave changes (reflecting LV hypertrophy) Deep anterolateral T-wave inversion Incomplete right bundle branch block However, third-degree AV block is abnormal and should be investigated thoroughly. These ECG and rhythm changes have not been associated with adverse clinical events, suggesting that various arrhythmias are not abnormal in athletes. The arrhythmias are usually abolished or substantially reduced after a relatively brief period of deconditioning. Echocardiography Echocardiography can usually distinguish athlete’s heart from cardiomyopathies (see table Features Distinguishing Athlete's Heart From Cardiomyopathy), but the distinction is not always clear because there is a continuum from physiologic to pathologic cardiac enlargement. The zone of overlap between athlete’s heart and cardiomyopathy is left ventricular septal thickness: In males, 13 to 15 mm In females, 11 to 13 mm In this overlap area, the presence of mitral valve systolic anterior motion strongly suggests hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Also, diastolic indexes may be abnormal in cardiomyopathy but are usually
