Athlete’s Heart
KEYWORDS: heart, athlete, cardiomyopathy, athlete heart, exercise, ecg, ventricular, cardiac, changes, left, blood, pressure, stress, diastolic, blood pressure


to 13 mm In this overlap area, the presence of mitral valve systolic anterior motion strongly suggests hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Also, diastolic indexes may be abnormal in cardiomyopathy but are usually normal in athlete's heart. In general, echocardiographic changes correlate poorly with level of training and cardiovascular performance. Trace mitral regurgitation and tricuspid regurgitation are commonly detected. Of note, reduction of physical training will result in regression of cardiac enlargement in patients with athlete's heart but not in those with cardiomyopathy. Exercise echocardiography may help to differentiate athlete's heart from dilated cardiomyopathy. In one study, a change during exercise in left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) ≤ 11% and a peak LVEF ≤ 63% during exercise predicted dilated cardiomyopathy with a sensitivity of 85.7% and specificity of 92% (2). 3/7 Cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging Although confirmation in large studies is pending, data so far suggest that CMR may also help differentiate athlete's heart from cardiomyopathy. In hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (3), CMR may identify focal hypertrophy not identified on the echocardiogram, particularly in the apex, anterior free wall, and posterior septum. Delayed imaging after injection of contrast may show a typical pattern of mid-wall fibrosis in some patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, particularly in left ventricular wall segments that exhibit maximal hypertrophy. However, this finding is absent in up to 60% of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Delayed enhancement on CMR is also evident in nonischemic dilated cardiomyopathy and may help differentiate dilated cardiomyopathy from athlete's heart. However, the finding is absent in 68% of patients with genetically proven dilated cardiomyopathy. T1 and T2 mapping, extracellular volume quantification, late gadolinium enhancement, deformation imaging and diffusion tensor imaging are all promising techniques to differentiate between athlete's heart and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Further studies are required to better determine the ability of these techniques to detect hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in athletes (4, 5). Although exercise capacity as measured by stress testing does not differentiate between athlete's heart and dilated cardiomyopathy, reduced cardiac contractile reserve with exercise observed on CMR imaging may be useful in establishing a diagnosis of dilated cardiomyopathy in an athlete. Stress testing During exercise stress testing, heart rate remains lower than normal at submaximal stress and increases appropriately and comparably to heart rate in nonathletes at maximal stress; it rapidly recovers after exercise. Blood pressure response is normal if: Systolic blood pressure increases Diastolic blood pressure falls Mean blood pressure stays relatively constant Many resting ECG
