Athlete’s Heart
KEYWORDS: heart, athlete, cardiomyopathy, athlete heart, exercise, ecg, ventricular, cardiac, changes, left, blood, pressure, stress, diastolic, blood pressure


maximal stress; it rapidly recovers after exercise. Blood pressure response is normal if: Systolic blood pressure increases Diastolic blood pressure falls Mean blood pressure stays relatively constant Many resting ECG changes decrease or disappear during exercise; this finding is unique to athlete's heart, distinguishing it from pathologic conditions. However, pseudonormalization of T-wave inversions could reflect myocardial ischemia and thus warrants further investigation in older athletes. Also, a normal exercise stress test result does not rule out a cardiomyopathy. TABLE Features Distinguishing Athlete's Heart From Cardiomyopathy Feature Athlete’s Heart Cardiomyopathy In males, < 13 mm In males, > 15 mm Left ventricular septal thickness* In females, < 11 mm In females, > 13 mm Left ventricular end- < 60 mm > 70 mm 4/7 Feature Athlete’s Heart Cardiomyopathy diastolic diameter† Diastolic function Normal (E:A ratio > 1‡) Abnormal (E:A ratio < 1) Asymmetric (in Septal hypertrophy Symmetric hypertrophic cardiomyopathy) Family history None May be present Blood pressure response Normal or reduced systolic Normal to exercise blood pressure response Left ventricular No left ventricular Deconditioning hypertrophy regression hypertrophy regression * A value of 13 to 15 mm in men and 11 to 13 mm in women is indeterminate. † A value of 60 to 70 mm is indeterminate. ‡ E:A ratio = ratio of early to late atrial transmitral flow velocity. Treatment of Athlete’s Heart Possibly a period of deconditioning to monitor LV regression No treatment is required, although 3 months of deconditioning may be needed to monitor LV regression as a way of distinguishing this syndrome from cardiomyopathy. Such deconditioning can greatly interfere with an athlete’s life and may meet with resistance. Prognosis for Athlete’s Heart Although gross structural changes resemble those in some cardiac disorders, generally no adverse effects are apparent. However, numerous studies have found an increased risk of developing atrial fibrillation in patients who participate in endurance and mixed sports (1). Athletes younger than 55 years are at higher risk (2). The dose of exercise at which the risk increases has not been documented in high quality studies. In most cases, structural changes and bradycardia regress with detraining, although up to 20% of elite athletes have residual chamber enlargement, raising questions, in the absence of long-term data, about whether athlete’s heart is truly benign. Prognosis references 1. La Gerche A, Wasfy MM, Brosnan MJ, et al: The Athlete's Heart—Challenges and Controversies: JACC Focus Seminar 4/4. J Am Coll
