Miriti et al. BMC Microbiology (2023) 23:172 BMC Microbiology
KEYWORDS: respiratory, bacterial, infections, study, isolates, resistance, patients, bacteria, respiratory infections, antimicrobial, reported, respiratory tract, tract, years, samples


in this article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication waiver ( applies to the data made available in this article, unless otherwise stated in a credit line to the data. ceftazidime, piperacillin-tazobactam and cephalexin. Therefore need for a continuous surveillance of antimicrobial resistance in management of respiratory infections in the study area. Keywords Prevalence, Antimicrobial susceptibility, Respiratory infections, Bacteria isolates, Antibiotics Introduction Therefore, constant monitoring and surveillance of Respiratory tract infections are termed as the infectious resistance pattern of respiratory bacterial pathogens to diseases of the respiratory tract and are the leading ill- antimicrobial agents will not only guide the physician in nesses globally .These infections are classified as upper the management of these infection but also helps in the and lower respiratory tract infections and are the leading evaluation of these infections . This study was con- cause of morbidity and mortality especially in developing ducted to determine the presence of bacterial respiratory countries. Respiratory infections are the leading cause of infections, number of people infected and antimicrobial Respiratory infections impose a serious financial burden are minimal reports on the presence of bacterial respi- to the economy due to loss of productivity and cost of ratory infections, number of people infected and the antimicrobial agents prescribed by physician even when antimicrobial susceptibility pattern among outpatients bacteria are not the main cause of respiratory infections presenting with respiratory tract infections in Meru . Teaching and Referral, Meru County. The commonly known respiratory bacteria pathogens Materials and methods are Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae, influenzae. Resistance to antibiotics is a global challenge cross sectional study was carried out between the month to the health sectors especially in Kenya. This has been of April 2017 and August 2018. A total of 384 outpatients attributed to the emergence of mutant bacteria strains. aged 5 years and above with symptoms of respiratory Respiratory bacterial pathogens that are associated with infections were randomly sampled from the outpatient include Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Streptoococcus pneu- Kenya as a representative of the population of interest. moniae and Mycobacterium tuberculosis . Bacteria may acquire resistance to antibiotics through the following Inclusion criteria Patients with respiratory clinical
