Miriti et al. BMC Microbiology (2023) 23:172 BMC Microbiology
KEYWORDS: respiratory, bacterial, infections, study, isolates, resistance, patients, bacteria, respiratory infections, antimicrobial, reported, respiratory tract, tract, years, samples


pneu- Kenya as a representative of the population of interest. moniae and Mycobacterium tuberculosis . Bacteria may acquire resistance to antibiotics through the following Inclusion criteria Patients with respiratory clinical pre- mechanisms; active efflux of the antibiotics, decreased sentation who consented to participate in the study and permeability of the cell membrane, modification of drug those who had not taken antibiotics for a week prior to target or inactivation of the antibiotics . Factors that sampling. are attributed to the development of resistance bacteria include poor usage of antimicrobial agents, transmis- Exclusion criteria Children aged below 5 years, outpa- care workers to patients and from patients to health care all inpatients and those whose sputum smears were posi- workers and poor guidelines in the administration of tive for acid fast bacilli were excluded from the study. antimicrobial agents . In developing countries such as Kenya, treatment of Sample size and sampling technique respiratory infections is done empirically and this may be The sample size was determined using single proportion due to expensive laboratory services and time as some of formula, the tests takes time before the results are out. This has led to emergence of resistance bacterial pathogens in treat- n = Z² P (1- P) ment of respiratory infections which is a serious problem Ɛ² in the health sector. Resistance to antimicrobial agents has led to therapeutical failure of empirical treatment . Considering that z = 1.96 for 95% confidence interval Various research that have been done shows that a bet- corresponding to 5% significance level, n = estimated ter understanding of the resistance mechanism in respi- sample size while p = prevalence of the patients (if not ratory pathogens and correct diagnosis of the etiological known = 50%) and margin of error 5% (d = 0.05). agents of respiratory infections leads to better patient’s resistance . 0.05² Antimicrobial susceptibility testing Purposive sampling technique was used to select 384 Antibiotic susceptibility testing was carried out using participant for the study. Kirby diffusion method on Muller Hinton agar (Oxoid) following Clinical and Laboratory Standard Institute Ethics approval and consent to participate recommendation . Based on CLSI (2019) guidelines The study obtained ethical approval from Kenyatta Uni- the antimicrobial agents used for Gram positive bacteria versity Ethics Review Committee (KUERC) (KU/R/ were; amoxicillin (30 µg), gentamicin (10 µg), cefuroxime COMM/51/470) and from the ethics committees of Meru (30 µg), ampicillin (10
