Miriti et al. BMC Microbiology (2023) 23:172 BMC Microbiology
KEYWORDS: respiratory, bacterial, infections, study, isolates, resistance, patients, bacteria, respiratory infections, antimicrobial, reported, respiratory tract, tract, years, samples


for Gram positive bacteria versity Ethics Review Committee (KUERC) (KU/R/ were; amoxicillin (30 µg), gentamicin (10 µg), cefuroxime COMM/51/470) and from the ethics committees of Meru (30 µg), ampicillin (10 µg), amikacin (30 µg), cephalexin Teaching and Referral Hospital (MRU/MED/GEN/R.14). (30 µg) and ceftazidime (30 µg) while for Gram nega- Informed written consent was obtained from the partici- tive bacteria were; cefuroxime (30 µg), amikacin (30 µg), pants. The study methods were carried out in accordance piperacillin/tazobactam (110 µg), ampicillin (10 µg), gen- with relevant guidelines and regulations. tamicin (10 µg), ciprofloxacin (5 µg), amoxicillin (30 µg) and ceftazidime (30 µg). The plates were incubated at Sample collection and laboratory processing 37 °C for 16 to 18 h and the diameters of the zone of Sputum samples were collected into a clean wide inhibition were measured in millimeters. Staphylococ- mouthed container which was well labelled. All patients cus aureus ATCC 25,923 was used as quality control were guided on how to collect the sputum aseptically for Gram positive bacteria while Escherichia coli ATCC and take them to the laboratory immediately for analy- 25,922 was used for Gram negative bacteria . sis. Throat samples were collected using a sterile cotton swab moistened in saline water. This was done by a quali- Statistical analysis fied medical officer. The samples were transported imme- Data collected was analysed using Statistical Pack- diately into the microbiology laboratory at the hospital age for Social Sciences version 25. The results obtained for analysis. Sputum samples that were viscous, mucoid were presented in descriptive statistics using tables and or purulent were considered suitable for analysis. Gram percentages. Fisher’s exact test was used for statistical stain smears were carried out for both samples and were analysis of the positive cases according to patients’ char- examined microscopically. Ziehl Neelsen staining was acteristics. One way Analysis of variance (ANOVA) was done only for sputum samples so that the samples found used to determine statistical difference between mean of to be positive for acid fast bacilli were not analysed. resistant Gram positive and Gram negative bacterial iso- lates to antibiotics. Statistical analysis was done at 95% Bacterial isolation confidence level and P < 0.05 was considered significant. Mucopurulent part of the sputum was inoculated onto Results sterile blood agar and MacConkey agar using streak method and incubated aerobically at 37 °C for 16 to 20 h. Study subjects Throat swab samples were
