Miriti et al. BMC Microbiology (2023) 23:172 BMC Microbiology
KEYWORDS: respiratory, bacterial, infections, study, isolates, resistance, patients, bacteria, respiratory infections, antimicrobial, reported, respiratory tract, tract, years, samples


Gram positive bacteria 40.6% and mixed infections Total 175 94(53.7%) 81(46.3%) 2.3%. These findings are contrary to a study done in Kenya that reported high prevalence of Gram positive bacteria . However other related studies done else- . This is explained by the high number of positive cul- where have reported a high prevalence of Gram negative tures obtained from male patients. bacteria [23–25]. From this study, more bacterial patho- Resistance of respiratory bacterial pathogens to com- gens were isolated from sputum samples than throat monly used antibiotics has increased at an alarming rate swab. This was similar to a previous study in China making it difficult for clinicians to treat respiratory infec- that reported more bacterial pathogens in cases of lower tions. This has led to emergence of infections caused by respiratory tract infections. The reason for this may be antimicrobial resistant bacteria associated with increased upper respiratory tract secretions. The most common loss of life . isolate was Pseudomonas species which was comparable Among the tested antibiotics in the study, highest resis- to the observation documented in other studies . tance rate was reported in amoxicillin and ampicillin. Previous studies done in Kenya have reported Strepto- Resistance levels were also noted in other antibiotics such coccus pneumoniae to be the most prevalent bacteria as ciprofloxacin, ceftazidime, piperacillin-tazobactam isolate . Other bacteria isolates obtained in this and cephalexin. A study conducted in Kenya reported a study include Staphylococcus aureus (22.2%), Klebsiella resistance prevalence of 72.0% to amoxicillin by Gram species (19.8%), Streptococcus pyogenes (14.8%), Strep- negative bacilli . A study conducted in Iran reported tococcus pneumoniae 12.3% and mixed isolates (2.3%). resistance to the same class of antimicrobial agents . Similar results were reported in Nigeria . The find- Imani reported a high level of microbial resistance ings of this study are in contrast to those that were con- to ampicillin. However, very low and in some cases no ducted in Nigeria and India where Klebsiella resistance rates were recorded for gentamicin, amikacin species was identified as the most prevalent isolate. This and cefuroxime. This observation concurs with previous is because Pseudomonas species are widely found in the studies conducted in India and Ethiopia that reported a environment and spread easily through air droplets and high rate of susceptibility to gentamicin and cephalospo- prevalence of 2.3% of mixed isolates obtained in the study administered intramuscular or intravenous injections was
