Miriti et al. BMC Microbiology (2023) 23:172 BMC Microbiology
KEYWORDS: respiratory, bacterial, infections, study, isolates, resistance, patients, bacteria, respiratory infections, antimicrobial, reported, respiratory tract, tract, years, samples


spread easily through air droplets and high rate of susceptibility to gentamicin and cephalospo- prevalence of 2.3% of mixed isolates obtained in the study administered intramuscular or intravenous injections was contrary to a related study carried out in Turkey that hence they are less abused. reported a prevalence of 11.2% of mixed isolates . In this study, among the isolated pathogens, the Gram Among the mixed isolates, Staphylococcus aureus were negative Pseudomonas species was found to be the most the most common isolates. This was similar to a previous resistant isolate to most of the tested antimicrobial study in Iran that recorded Staphylococcus aureus as the agents. This is similar to what was observed in Kenyatta gens . microbial resistance in Pseudomonas species could be Incidences of bacterial respiratory infections were attributed to its mechanisms of mutation and secretion more prevalent in age group 25–34 53(30.3%). A study of enzymes that inactivates the antibiotics. conducted in Kenya reported higher cases of bacterial Our study recorded MDR rate of 46.3% which lower acute respiratory infections in age groups 17–50 years than what has been reported previously in Ethiopian . Similarly, a related study in Nigeria reported more studies Arba Minch and Jimma 60.3% and 62.7% cases of lower respiratory tract infections among patients respectively. However it is higher than what was reported aged between 21 and 40 years . Age group above 65 in South Ethiopia 33.1%. The discrepancy may be years had the least number of infections. This was similar due to use of different antibiotics and bacterial isolates. to a related study done in Kenya that reported low inci- The high rate of resistance to tested antibiotics in our dences of respiratory infections in patients aged above work is of great concern. This could be associated with 56 years . However, a study conducted in Pakistan indiscriminate use of the antimicrobial agents, commu- reported more infections in age group above 60 years. nity acquired resistance, inadequate infections control The low rate of infections recorded in patients above 65 measures and spread of multidrug resistant isolates in the years could be due to the few number of patients in this population . Pseudomonas spp. was the isolate with age group who participated in the study. Patients above the highest rate of MDR 59.4% followed by Klebsiella 65 years are elderly hence less mobile minimizing the spp. 55.6%, Staphylococcus aureus 55.1%
