Miriti et al. BMC Microbiology (2023) 23:172 BMC Microbiology
KEYWORDS: respiratory, bacterial, infections, study, isolates, resistance, patients, bacteria, respiratory infections, antimicrobial, reported, respiratory tract, tract, years, samples


who participated in the study. Patients above the highest rate of MDR 59.4% followed by Klebsiella 65 years are elderly hence less mobile minimizing the spp. 55.6%, Staphylococcus aureus 55.1% and Streptococ- chances of exposing them to risk factors of respiratory cus pneumoniae 38.9%. A similar study in South Ethiopia infections. reported MDR in Staphylococcus aureus 57.1%, Klebsiella Similar to previous studies, majority of the patients pneumoniae 33.3% . were males accounting for 71.4% . This is contrary to previous related study in Kenya that reported higher cases of respiratory infections in females than in males Consent for publication Conclusion Not applicable. The rate of bacterial respiratory infections among antibi- Competing interests otic naive outpatients visiting Meru Teaching and Refer- The authors declare that they have no competing interests. associated with respiratory infections; Pseudomonas Author details 1Department of Biochemistry, Microbiology and Biotechnology, Kenyatta species, Klebsiella species, Staphylococcus aureus, Strep- tococcus pyogenes, and Streptococcus pneumoniae. Nev- resistance to at least more than two commonly used anti- biotics like amoxicillin, ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, ceftazi- dime, piperacillin-tazobactam and cephalexin The results from this study shows high level of antibiotic resistance hence need for culture and susceptibility test for proper References 1. Mirsaeidi M, Motahari H, Taghizadeh Khames M, Sharifi A, Campes M, Schrauf- management of respiratory infections in the study area. nagel DE. Climate change and respiratory infections. Ann of Am Thorac Soc. This will curb the emergence and spread of resistance 2016;13(8):1223–30. strains. The findings of this study will help the clinicians 2. Bipin P, Nitiben T, Sonaliya KN. A study on prevalence of acute respiratory tract infection in under five year children in urban and rural communities of in the treatment and management of respiratory infec- Ahmedabad District, Gujarat. Natl j community med. 2011;2(2):255–9. tions in Meru Teaching and Referral Hospital. 3. Ministry of Health. (2018). Government scales up child health interventions. Limitation 4. Siddalingappa CM, Kalpana l, Sagar P, Vasudha TK, Acharya A. Sensitivity pat- tern of bacteria causing respiratory tract infections in a tertiary care center. 1. This study did not include the inpatients as the Int J Basic Clin Pharmacol. 2013;2(5):590–5. study population because majority of them were on 5. Shah S, Ullah B, Basit A, Begum A, Tabassum A, Zafar S et al. (2016). Prevalence and susceptibility patterns of bacteria causing respiratory tract infections in antibiotics. North Waziristan, Pakistan. Pak J Pharm Sci. 2016;29(2):701-6 2. Most of the
