Endovascular insertion of an intrasaccular wire-mesh blood-flow disruption device for intracranial aneurysms
KEYWORDS: aneurysm, aneurysms, device, intracranial, procedure, committee, intracranial aneurysms, blood, rupture, current, people, catheter, evidence, vessel, embolisation


the femoral artery and advanced into the cerebral circulation under X-ray guidance. A second, smaller catheter is put inside the first and is inserted into the aneurysm. A basket-like device made of fine wire mesh is then pushed through the second catheter and placed into the aneurysm sac. The mesh device covers the aneurysm neck and obstructs blood flow into the aneurysm sac, creating blood stasis and promoting endothelial growth across the neck of the aneurysm. The appropriate device size is selected according to the aneurysm width and height. 2.5 The aim is to prevent the aneurysm from rupturing or to stop further bleeding from an aneurysm that has already ruptured. 3 Committee considerations The evidence 3.1 To inform the committee, NICE did a rapid review of the published literature on the efficacy and safety of this procedure. This comprised a comprehensive literature search and detailed review of the evidence from 13 sources, which was discussed by the committee. The evidence included 1 systematic review, 2 non-randomised comparative studies, 9 case series and 1 case report, and is presented in table 2 of the interventional procedures overview. Other relevant literature is in the appendix of the overview. 3.2 The specialist advisers and the committee considered the key efficacy outcomes to be: device implantation success rate, use of adjuvant devices, angiographic aneurysm occlusion rates, Modified Rankin Scale (mRS) score and quality of life. 3.3 The specialist advisers and the committee considered the key safety outcomes to be: intraprocedural rupture of aneurysm, other vascular damage, thromboembolic complications including device embolisation and aneurysm rebleeding. 3.4 Eight commentaries from patients who had experience of this procedure were received, which were discussed by the committee.
