Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


ABSTRACT This chapter summarizes the intimate relationship between the hypothalamus and the anterior pituitary with respect to the secretion of ACTH and GH from the physiological viewpoint. Other chapters in Endotext cover the hormones prolactin, LH, FSH, TSH and the posterior pituitary. Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and growth hormone (GH) are both peptide hormones secreted from the anterior pituitary. ACTH is derived from cleavage of the precursor hormone pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) by prohormone convertase enzymes. Classically, it activates the production and release of cortisol from the zona fasciculata of the adrenal cortex via the melanocortin receptor MC2R. The major hypophysiotropic factor controlling ACTH expression and secretion is corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), in conjunction with arginine vasopressin (AVP). Key physiological features of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis are discussed, including the ultradian pulsatility of CRH, AVP and ACTH secretion, the circadian pattern of secretion, the negative feedback of cortisol on the HPA axis, the stress response, and the effects of aging and gender. GH is secreted mainly by somatotrophs in the anterior pituitary, but it is also expressed in other parts of the brain. Similarly, to ACTH, the release of GH is pulsatile with diurnal variation, under a negative feedback auto-regulatory loop, and can be affected by various factors. Activities that affect secretion of GH include sleep and exercise, and physical stresses such as fasting and hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, hypovolemic shock, and surgery. GH secretion demonstrates differences between the sexes, with male ‘pulsatile’ secretion versus female ‘continuous’ secretion. In addition, the level of secretion also declines with age, a phenomenon termed the ‘somatopause’. All these are discussed in detail in this chapter. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . THE HYPOTHALAMO-PITUITARY INTERFACE The hypothalamus and pituitary serve as the body’s primary interface between the nervous system and the endocrine system. This interface takes the form of: Amplification from femto ( 10 - 15 ) and pico ( 10 - 12 )-molar concentrations of hypophysiotropic hormones to nano ( 10 - 9 ) molar concentrations of pituitary hormones. Temporal smoothing from ultradian pulsed secretion of hypophysiotropic hormones to circadian rhythms of pituitary hormone secretion ( 1 ). The function of this interface is modified by feedback , usually negative, via the nervous system and via the endocrine system. REGULATION OF ACTH Cells of Origin ACTH is released from corticotrophs in the human pituitary, constituting 15-20% of the
