Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


usually negative, via the nervous system and via the endocrine system. REGULATION OF ACTH Cells of Origin ACTH is released from corticotrophs in the human pituitary, constituting 15-20% of the cells of the anterior pituitary (see Endotext chapter- Development and Microscopic Anatomy of the Pituitary Gland). They are distributed in the median wedge, anteriorly and laterally, and posteriorly adjacent to the pars nervosa. These cells are characteristically identified from their basophil staining and PAS-positivity due to the high glycoprotein content of the N-terminal glycopeptide of pro-opiomelanocortin ( vide infra ), as well as ACTH immunopositivity. Scattered ACTH-positive cells are also present in the human homologue of the intermediate lobe. Some of these appear to extend into the posterior pituitary, the so-called “basophilic invasion” ( 2 ). ACTH/POMC POMC GENE STRUCTURE ACTH is derived from a 266 amino acid precursor, pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC: Figure 1 ). POMC is encoded by a single-copy gene on chromosome 2p23.3 over 8 kb ( 3 ). It contains a 5′ promoter and three exons. Apart from the hydrophobic signal peptide and 18 amino acids of the N-terminal glycopeptide, the rest of POMC is encoded by the 833 bp exon 3. Figure 1. POMC and its derivatives. POMC PROMOTER The promoter of POMC has most extensively been studied in rodents ( 4 ). Common transcription elements such as a TATA box, a CCAAT box, and an AP-1 site are found within the promoter ( 5 , 6 ). Corticotroph and melanotroph-specific transcription of POMC appears to be dependent on a CANNTG element motif synergistically binding corticotroph upstream transcription element-binding (CUTE) proteins ( 7 ). These include neurogenic differentiation 1 factor (NeuroD1) ( 8 ), pituitary homeobox 1 (Pitx1 or Ptx1) ( 9 ), and Tpit ( 10 , 11 ). NeuroD1 is a member of the NeuroD family and forms heterodimers with other basic-helix-loop-helix (bHLH) proteins, activating transcription of genes that contain an E-box, in this case POMC. This highly restricted pattern of expression in the nervous and endocrine systems is important during development. NeuroD1 is expressed in corticotrophs but not melanotrophs, thus indicating that there are some differences between the operations of the transcriptional mechanisms of these two POMC-expressing cell types ( 8 ). Tpit is a transcription factor of the T-box family and it plays an important role in late-stage cell determination of corticotrophs and melanotrophs ( 10 ). Pitx1 is a homeoprotein belonging to
