Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


a transcription factor of the T-box family and it plays an important role in late-stage cell determination of corticotrophs and melanotrophs ( 10 ). Pitx1 is a homeoprotein belonging to a class of transcription factors that are involved in organogenesis and cell differentiation. Both Tpit and Pitx1 bind to their respective responsive elements and are involved in controlling the late differentiation of POMC gene expression, maintaining a basal level of POMC transcription and participating in hormone-induced POMC expression ( 12 ). To summarize the respective roles of the CUTE proteins, Pitx1 confers pituitary specificity in the broadest sense, Tpit confers the POMC lineage identity common to corticotrophs and melanotrophs, whereas NeuroD1 expression confers corticotroph identity ( 4 ). However, CUTE proteins are not the only method by which POMC expression is differentiated between corticotrophs and melanotrophs. The Pax7 transcription factor has been shown to be a key determinant of melanotroph identity, and it works by remodeling chromatin prior to Tpit expression, opening key areas of chromatin to allow Tpit and other transcription factors access to enhancers, resulting in melanotroph specification ( 13 ). Ikaros transcription factors, which had previously been characterized as being essential for B and T cell development, have been demonstrated to bind and regulate the POMC gene in mice. Moreover, Ikaros knockout mice demonstrate impaired corticotroph development in their pituitaries, as well as reduced circulating ACTH, MSH, and corticosterone levels ( 14 ), suggesting a role in corticotroph development. POMC transcription is positively regulated by corticotrophin releasing hormone (CRH). CRH acts via its G-protein coupled receptor to activate adenylate cyclase, increase intracellular cAMP and stimulate protein kinase-A ( 15 ). Transcription stimulation is mediated by an upstream element (PCRH-RE) binding a novel transcription factor (PCRH-REB) containing protein kinase-A phosphorylation sites ( 16 ). CRH also stimulates the transcription of c-Fos, FosB and JunB, as well as binding to the POMC AP-1 site ( 17 ). Another secondary messenger pathway that controls POMC expression involves intracellular Ca 2+ ions ( 18 ). Both cAMP and intracellular Ca 2+ pathways cross-talk with each other ( 19 ). These findings further support the importance of cAMP and Ca 2+ in the intracellular signaling of corticotrophs and melanotrophs. Interestingly, there is a remarkable absence of cAMP-responsive elements (CRE) and Ca 2+ responsive elements (CaRE) in the promoter region of POMC despite the demonstrated importance of cAMP and Ca 2+ in the
