Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


a remarkable absence of cAMP-responsive elements (CRE) and Ca 2+ responsive elements (CaRE) in the promoter region of POMC despite the demonstrated importance of cAMP and Ca 2+ in the intracellular signaling of corticotrophs and melanotrophs. Other, more indirect strategies have evolved to translate cAMP signals into changes in POMC gene expression involving a CREB/c-Fos/AP-1 signaling cascade activating POMC transcription via an activator protein-1 (AP-1) site in exon 1. Similarly, intracellular Ca 2+ may signal via the Ca 2+ binding repressor DREAM (downstream response element-antagonist modulator) and modulation of c-Fos expression ( 20 ). CRH also activates POMC expression through a Nur response element which binds the related orphan nuclear receptors Nur77, Nurr1, and NOR1 ( 21 ). The pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP) also stimulates cAMP synthesis and POMC transcription, presumably through a common pathway with CRH ( 22 ). The effect of Nuclear transcription factor kappa B (NF-κB) on POMC expression is unclear. Although NF-κB is mostly associated with an activation of gene expression, it has been shown to inhibit POMC gene expression by binding to the promoter region ( 23 ). In keeping with this finding, CRH treatment blocks this binding, leading to an increase in POMC expression. On the contrary, it has also been shown that more pertinent high glucose (metabolic stress condition) elevates POMC transcription in AtT-20 cells through, or at least in part, the NF-κB responsive element and AP-1 sites ( 24 ). POMC mRNA transcription in corticotrophs is negatively regulated by glucocorticoids ( 25 ), although glucocorticoids increase expression of POMC in the hypothalamus ( 26 ). The inhibitory effect of glucocorticoids on corticotroph POMC expression appears, in the rat POMC promoter, to be dependent on a glucocorticoid response element partially overlapping the CCAAT box ( 27 ). The element binds the glucocorticoid receptor as a homodimer plus a monomer on the other side of the DNA helix ( 28 ). Glucocorticoid regulation of corticotroph POMC transcription is also indirectly mediated via other mechanisms such as down-regulation of c-jun expression and direct protein-protein mediated inhibition of CRH-induced AP-1 binding ( 29 ), inhibition of CRH receptor transcription ( 30 ), inhibition of CRH/cAMP induced activation of Tpit/Pitx1, inhibition of CRH action via the Nur response element ( 12 ), and suppression of NeuroD1 expression which in turn inhibits the positive NeuroD1/E-box interaction in the POMC promoter ( 31 ). There are also some
