Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


Nur response element ( 12 ), and suppression of NeuroD1 expression which in turn inhibits the positive NeuroD1/E-box interaction in the POMC promoter ( 31 ). There are also some other nuclear receptors and respective ligands that show potential roles in POMC regulation. All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), a stereoisomeric form of retinoic acid, has been shown to inhibit POMC transactivation and ACTH secretion in murine corticotroph tumor AtT20 cells via inhibition of AP-1 and Nur transcriptional activities ( 32 ). Mutations in the retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptors (ROR) also result in enhanced corticosterone secretion and ACTH response as well as a lack of diurnal variation compared to wild-type mice ( 33 ). As for the thyroid hormone and its receptor, there appears to be no reported direct interaction with the POMC promoter, although POMC -/- animals are known to display primary hyperthyroidism ( 34 ). More studies are needed to elucidate the potential roles of different nuclear receptors and ligands in POMC regulation. It is also important to note that most of these studies were conducted using tumor cells or in vitro models, as some of the global knockout models can be lethal or difficult. Leukemia Inhibitory Factor (LIF), a pro-inflammatory cytokine expressed in corticotrophs, has also been shown to stimulate POMC transcription via activation of the Jak-STAT pathway ( 35 , 36 ). This stimulation is synergistic with CRH. Deletional analysis of the POMC promoter has identified a LIF-responsive region from –407 to –301. A STAT binding site that stimulates POMC transcription and which partly overlaps with the Nur response element has been identified within the POMC promoter ( 37 ). This pathway might form an interface between the immune system and regulation of the pituitary-adrenal axis, particularly during chronic inflammation, where pro-inflammatory cytokines such as LIF might stimulate STAT3 expression and therefore POMC transcription ( 38 ). Another interface between the immune system and POMC expression involves Toll-like receptor (most likely TLR4) recognition of lipopolysaccharide, which is a component of the bacterial cell wall. This appears to act via activation of c-Fos and AP-1 expression ( 39 ). The POMC promoter sits within a CpG island, defined as the regions in the genome which the G and C content exceed 50%. These genomic regions are important controllers of gene expression as hypermethylation of the cytosine leads to silencing of gene expression via remodeling of the chromatin structure
