Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


C content exceed 50%. These genomic regions are important controllers of gene expression as hypermethylation of the cytosine leads to silencing of gene expression via remodeling of the chromatin structure to favor heterochromatinization ( 40 ). Hypermethylation of the POMC promoter leads to repression of POMC expression in non-expressing tissues. In contrast, hypomethylation leads to de-repression of the POMC promoter in POMC expressing tissues (e.g. corticotrophs). Notably, a small cell lung carcinoma cell line, which expresses POMC and ACTH, possesses a hypomethylated POMC promoter, suggesting that ectopic ACTH secretion by tumors may be due to hypomethylation at a relatively early stage in carcinogenesis ( 41 ). BIOGENESIS OF ACTH Prohormone convertase enzymes PC1 and PC2 process POMC at pairs of basic residues (Lys-Lys or Lys-Arg). This generates ACTH, the N-terminal glycopeptide, joining peptide, and beta-lipotropin (beta-LPH) ( Figure 1 ). ACTH can be further processed to generate alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) and corticotropin-like intermediate lobe peptide (CLIP), whereas beta-LPH can be processed to generate gamma-LPH and beta-endorphin ( 42 ). In corticotrophs, POMC is mainly processed to the N-terminal glycopeptide, joining peptide, ACTH, and beta-LPH; smaller amounts of the other peptides are present ( 43 ). Other post-translational modifications include glycosylation of the N-terminal glycopeptide ( 44 ), C-terminal amidation of N-terminal glycopeptide, joining peptide and alpha-MSH ( 45 , 46 ), and N-terminal acetylation of ACTH, alpha-MSH and beta-endorphin ( 47 , 48 ). HYPOPHYSIOTROPIC HORMONES AFFECTING ACTH RELEASE Corticotropin Releasing Hormone (CRH) This 41 amino acid neuropeptide ( 49 ) is derived from a 196-amino acid prohormone ( 50 ). CRH is likely to be involved in all the three types of stress responses: behavioral, autonomic and hormonal. CRH immunoreactivity is mainly found in the paraventricular nuclei (PVN) of the hypothalamus, often co-localized with AVP ( 51 ). CRH is part of a family of neuropeptides together with the urocortins 1, 2 and 3 ( 52 ). CRH binds to G-protein coupled seven-transmembrane domain receptors ( 53 , 54 ), which are classically coupled to adenylate cyclase via Gs, stimulating cAMP synthesis and PK-A activity. However, it is increasingly clear that CRH receptors also couple to Gi (inhibiting adenylate cyclase) and Gq (stimulating phospholipase C, the processing of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate into inositol trisphosphate and diacylglycerol and intracellular Ca 2+ release), as well as the recruitment of beta-arrestins which counter-regulate CRH-R function via G-protein decoupling and receptor internalization/desensitization (
