Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate into inositol trisphosphate and diacylglycerol and intracellular Ca 2+ release), as well as the recruitment of beta-arrestins which counter-regulate CRH-R function via G-protein decoupling and receptor internalization/desensitization ( 52 ). To date, two CRH receptor genes have been identified in humans. CRH-R1 mediates the action of CRH at corticotrophs by binding to CRH; it also binds urocortin 1. CRH-R1 is most extensively expressed in the CNS. CRH-R2 binds to all three urocortins, while binding CRH at a far lower affinity ( 52 ). CRH-R2 is predominantly expressed in the heart and has profound effects on the regulation of the cardiovascular system and blood pressure ( 55 , 56 ). Besides stimulating POMC transcription and ACTH biogenesis, CRH stimulates the release of ACTH from corticortophs via CRH-R1 leading to a biphasic response with the fast release of a pre-synthesized pool of ACTH, and the slower and sustained release of newly-synthesized ACTH ( 57 ). Figure 2 describes the stimulation of ACTH release by CRH ( 58 ). It is clear that CRH and CRH-R1 is the ‘main line’ of the HPA axis with major defects in this axis with CRH ( 59 ) and CRH-R1 knockout ( 60 ). Although urocortin 1 can also activate CRH-R1, urocortin 1 knockout mice appear to have normal HPA axis function, suggesting that urocortin 1 does not have a significant regulatory role on the axis ( 61 ). Indeed, knocking out all three urocortins does not have any major effect on basal corticosterone levels ( 62 ) although female urocortin 2 knockout mice exhibit a more subtle dysregulation with elevated basal ACTH and corticosterone secretion which is modulated by their estrogen status ( 63 ). Figure 2. Diagram showing the release of ACTH from corticotroph cells. CRH binds to a particular receptor that leads to activation of cAMP. The rise in cAMP inhibits TREK-1, thus leading to the depolarization of the cell and subsequently influx of calcium via VGCC. The rise in intracellular calcium leads to the exocytosis and release of ACTH. CRH secretion is also regulated by other neurotransmitters and cytokines. These include acetylcholine, norepinephrine/noradrenaline, histamine, serotonin, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), interleukin-1beta, and tumor necrosis factor. All of these factors increase hypothalamic CRH expression, except for GABA which is inhibitory. Arginine Vasopressin (AVP ) In the anterior pituitary, AVP principally binds to the seven-transmembrane domain V1b receptor, also known as the V3 receptor
