Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


expression, except for GABA which is inhibitory. Arginine Vasopressin (AVP ) In the anterior pituitary, AVP principally binds to the seven-transmembrane domain V1b receptor, also known as the V3 receptor ( 64 ). The receptor is coupled to phospholipase C, phosphatidyl inositol generation, and activation of protein kinase-C ( 65 , 66 ) and not via adenylate cyclase and cAMP ( 15 ). AVP stimulates ACTH release weakly by itself, but synergizes with the effects of CRH on ACTH release ( 67 ). Downregulation of protein kinase C by phorbol ester treatment abolishes the synergistic effect of AVP on ACTH release by CRH ( 68 ). AVP does not stimulate POMC transcription either by itself or in synergism with CRH ( 69 ). Between the two neuropeptide effects on ACTH release, CRH is the more dominant effect although there is some residual HPA axis activation in female CRH knockout mice ( 59 ). The association between AVP and ACTH release suggests that measurement of AVP levels might be useful for assessing anterior pituitary function. However, direct measurement of plasma AVP is technically difficult due to its small molecular size and binding to platelets. Copeptin is a 39-amino acid glycosylated peptide which is derived from the C-terminal part of the AVP precursor at an equimolar amount to AVP. It remains stable for several days at room temperature in serum or plasma, and its measurement is reliable and reproducible, making it a biomarker of AVP release ( 70 ). The copeptin increment during glucagon stimulation testing correlates well with the ACTH increment in healthy controls, but not in patients with pituitary disease ( 71 ). Interestingly, there appears to be a sexual dimorphism in terms of the correlation between copeptin and ACTH/cortisol release under the conditions of insulin tolerance testing, with a positive correlation observed in women but no significant correlation in men, i.e. copeptin cannot be used as a universal marker of HPA axis stimulation ( 72 ). Other Influences on ACTH Release Glucocorticoids rapidly travel through circulation to inhibit the HPA axis at the level of the hypothalamus (release of CRH) ( 73-76 ) and anterior pituitary (release of ACTH) ( 77 , 78 ) when synthesized. There is an inherent short delay in this dynamic relationship between the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal system but nevertheless it is one of the main influences on ACTH release. The mineralocorticoid system has always been closely
