Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


inherent short delay in this dynamic relationship between the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal system but nevertheless it is one of the main influences on ACTH release. The mineralocorticoid system has always been closely linked to the glucocorticoid system. The endogenous glucocorticoids bind to the mineralocorticoid receptors with a 10-fold greater affinity than to the glucocorticoid receptors ( 79-81 ). The mineralocorticoid receptors have a more restricted expression profile throughout the body, with notably high levels of expression in the kidney and adipose tissue, although it is also expressed in certain parts of the brain ( 82 ). Administration of mineralocorticoid antagonists intracerebroventricularly or intrahippocampal infusion have been shown to increase the basal HPA axis activity as well as potentiate the initial rise of ACTH in response to stress ( 83 , 84 ). Oxytocin and AVP have been co-localized to the PVN and supraoptic nuclei of the hypothalamus ( 85 ). Oxytocin controversially inhibits ACTH release in man ( 86-88 ) by competing for AVP receptor binding ( 89 ), but its more dominant effect seems to be a potentiation of the effects of CRH on ACTH release ( 90 , 91 ). Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and its relative, peptide histidine isoleucine (PHI), have been shown to activate ACTH secretion ( 92 ). This is most probably mediated indirectly via CRH ( 93 ). Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) 1-28 has been localized to the PVN and supraoptic nuclei ( 94 ). In healthy males, infusion of ANP 1-28 was reported to attenuate the ACTH release induced by CRH ( 95 , 96 ), but this only occurs under highly specific conditions and is not readily reproducible. In physiological doses, ANP 1-28 does not appear to affect CRH-stimulated ACTH release ( 97 ). Opiates and opioid peptides inhibit ACTH release ( 98 ). There does not seem to be a direct action at the pituitary level. It is likely that these act by modifying release of CRH at the hypothalamic level ( 99 ). Opiate receptor antagonists such as naloxone or naltrexone cause ACTH release by blocking tonic inhibition by endogenous opioid peptides ( 100 ). The endocannabinoid system has recently appeared as a key player in regulating the baseline tone and stimulated peaks of ACTH release. The seven-transmembrane cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1) is found on corticotrophs, and the endocannabinoids anandamide and 2-arachidonoylglycerol can be detected in normal pituitaries ( 101 ).
