Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


peaks of ACTH release. The seven-transmembrane cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1) is found on corticotrophs, and the endocannabinoids anandamide and 2-arachidonoylglycerol can be detected in normal pituitaries ( 101 ). Antagonism of CB1 causes a dose-dependent rise in corticosterone levels in mice ( 102 ). CB1 -/- knockout mice demonstrate higher corticosterone levels compared to wild-type CB1 +/+ littermates, although the circadian rhythm is preserved. Treatment of the CB1 -/- mice with low-dose dexamethasone did not significantly suppress their corticosterone levels and surprisingly caused a paradoxical rise in ACTH levels when compared to the wild-type, although high-dose dexamethasone suppressed corticosterone and ACTH to the same degree in both CB1 -/- and CB1 +/+ mice. These CB1 -/- mice have: ( 1 ) higher CRH mRNA expression in the PVN; ( 2 ) lower glucocorticoid receptor mRNA expression in the CA1 hippocampal region, but not in the dentate gyrus or the PVN; ( 3 ) significantly higher baseline ACTH secretion from primary pituitary cell cultures as well as augmented ACTH responses to stimulation with CRH or forskolin ( 103 ). It has also been known for some time that the administration of the cannabinoid agonist delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) for 14 days suppresses the cortisol response to hypoglycemia in normal humans ( 104 ). Thus, the endocannabinoids appear to negatively regulate basal and stimulated ACTH release at multiple levels of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis. Catecholamines act centrally via alpha 1 -adrenergic receptors to stimulate CRH release. Peripheral catecholamines do not affect ACTH release at the level of the pituitary in humans ( 105 ). Nitric oxide (NO) and carbon monoxide negatively modulate the HPA axis by reducing CRH release, at least in vitro ( 106 , 107 ). Endotoxin administered into isolated rat hypothalamus led to generation of NO and CO, which subsequently led to significant decrease in CRH and vasopressin secretion ( 107 ). GH secretagogues such as ghrelin and the synthetic GH secretagogue hexarelin stimulate ACTH release, probably via stimulating AVP release with a much lesser effect on CRH ( 108-111 ). GH-releasing peptide-2 (GHRP-2) has also been shown to cause ACTH release in humans ( 112 , 113 ). GH releasing hormone (GHRH) has been shown to potentiate the ACTH and cortisol response to insulin-induced hypoglycemia, but not to potentiate the ACTH and cortisol response after administration of CRH/AVP ( 114 ). Obestatin , a 23 amino acid amidated peptide, is
