Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


cortisol response to insulin-induced hypoglycemia, but not to potentiate the ACTH and cortisol response after administration of CRH/AVP ( 114 ). Obestatin , a 23 amino acid amidated peptide, is derived from preproghrelin, which is the same precursor as ghrelin ( Figure 3 ). Obestatin is found to suppress food intake and have opposing metabolic effects to ghrelin when administered intraperitoneally in mice ( 115 ). An early study showed that intravenous or intracerebroventricular obestatin had no effects on pituitary hormone release (GH, prolactin, ACTH and TSH) in male rats ( 116 ), consistent with the fact that the obestatin receptor GPR39 is not expressed in the pituitary ( 115 , 117 , 118 ). A study in mice and non-human primates (baboon) again showed no effects of obestatin on prolactin, LH, FSH and TSH expression and release. However, obestatin was shown to stimulate POMC expression and ACTH release in vitro and in vivo , and in this study the authors found GPR39 expression in pituitary tissue and primary pituitary cell cultures, contrary to the above-mentioned studies. This effect was mediated by the adenylyl cyclase and MAPK pathways. The increase in ACTH release was also associated with an increase in pituitary CRH receptor expression. Interestingly, obestatin did not inhibit the stimulatory effect of ghrelin on ACTH release ( 119 ). Therefore, the effects of obestatin on pituitary hormone secretions remain controversial. Figure 3. Schematic diagram showing the synthesis of ghrelin and obestatin from the same precursor, preproghrelin. Preproghrelin is a 117 amino acid precursor encoded at chromosome 3. Cleavage of this protein leads to the production of ghrelin, a 28 amino acid peptide, and obestatin, a 23 amino acid protein. Ghrelin can be present as both des-acyl- and acyl-ghrelin (figure modified from ( 291 )). Angiotensin II (Ang II) is able to stimulate ACTH release in vitro from pituitary cells ( 120 ). Central Ang II is likely to stimulate CRH release via its receptors in the median eminence, as passive immunization with anti-CRH can abolish the effect of Ang II ( 121 ). Intracerebroventricular Ang II can stimulate ACTH release in rats ( 122 ) and is able to stimulate the synthesis of CRH and POMC mRNA ( 123 ). Conversely, blockade of Ang II subtype 1 (AT1) receptors with candesartan is able to decrease the CRH, ACTH, and cortisol response to isolation stress in rats ( 124 ,
