Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


). Conversely, blockade of Ang II subtype 1 (AT1) receptors with candesartan is able to decrease the CRH, ACTH, and cortisol response to isolation stress in rats ( 124 , 125 ). There is some controversy as to whether peripheral Ang II can modulate ACTH secretion. It is likely that the ACTH rise seen after Ang II infusion into rats is mediated via circumventricular organ stimulation, as blockade of Ang II effects on the circumventricular organs with simultaneous infusion of saralasin blocks this rise ( 122 ). In vitro studies have shown an inhibitory effect of somatostatin on ACTH release in AtT-20 pituitary cell lines from rats, which is mediated via somatostatin receptor (SSTR) subtypes 2 and 5 ( 126 ). This inhibitory effect is dependent on the absence of glucocorticoids in the culture medium, but is more prominent when somatostatin analogues targeting SSTR 5 are used ( 127 , 128 ). In rodents, pasireotide, a somatostatin analogue capable of activating SSTRs 1, 2, 3, and 5, is capable of inhibiting CRH-stimulated ACTH release in contrast to octreotide (selective for SSTRs 2 and 5), which was less efficacious ( 129 ). Early in vivo studies in humans showed no effect of somatostatin on basal or CRH-stimulated ACTH release ( 130 ), although somatostatin does decrease basal secretion in the context of Addison’s disease ( 131 ). It is unlikely, therefore, that somatostatin itself is an inhibitor of ACTH release in normal human physiology. Corticotroph adenomas express the somatostatin receptor (SSTR) subtype 5 ( 132 ) and ACTH secretion from cultured corticotroph adenomas is inhibited by pasireotide ( 133 ). This is the basis for the use of pasireotide to treat Cushing’s disease ( 134 ). Octreotide is clinically ineffective in this context ( 135 ), but may be effective if glucocorticoids are lowered. The role of TRH in ACTH release is in dispute. Although there is evidence that prepro-TRH 178-199 can inhibit both basal and CRH-stimulated ACTH release in AtT-20 cell lines and rat anterior pituitary cells ( 136 , 137 ), other investigators have not been able to confirm this ( 138 ). There has also been another study showing that TRH is able to induce ACTH release from AtT-20/NYU-1 cells ( 139 ), but no in vivo studies exist to substantiate a physiological role. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) is a macrophage-derived pleiotropic cytokine that has been shown to
