Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


AtT-20/NYU-1 cells ( 139 ), but no in vivo studies exist to substantiate a physiological role. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) is a macrophage-derived pleiotropic cytokine that has been shown to stimulate plasma ACTH and corticosterone secretion in a dose-dependent manner ( 140 ). The primary site of action of TNFalpha effect on the HPA axis is likely to be on hypothalamic CRH-secreting neurons. The effects are abolished with CRH antiserum treatment, thus suggesting that CRH is a major mediator of the HPA axis response to TNFalpha. Interleukins IL-1, IL-6 and possibly IL-2 appear to stimulate ACTH release ( 141-143 ). There seem to be multiple mechanisms for interleukins to stimulate ACTH release, but most of the acute effects of these agents are almost certainly via the hypothalamus ( 144 ). Leukemia Inhibitory Factor is able to stimulate POMC synthesis, as noted above. Endothelial Growth Factor (EGF) is a pituitary cell growth factor that is previously known to induce production of prolactin ( 145 ). Both EGF and its receptor (EGFR) are expressed in normal pituitary tissue ( 146 ). More recently, EGF has been found to regulate the transcription of POMC and production of ACTH ( 147-149 ). The mechanism behind this is still unclear, although mutations in ubiquitin-specific protease 8 ( USP8 ), a deubiquitinase enzyme with various targets including EGFR, leading to hyperactivation of this enzyme and subsequent increased EGFR deubiquitination and recirculation to the cell surface, enhance the release of ACTH ( 147 , 150 ). A significant percentage of corticotroph adenomas harbor somatic mutations in USP8, and a germline mutation case have also been described and can develop Cushing’s disease ( 147 , 150 , 151 ). These findings further provide evidence that EGF and EGFR can regulate production of ACTH. PHYSIOLOGY OF ACTH RELEASE Pulsatility of ACTH Release Frequent sampling of ACTH with deconvolution analysis reveals that it is secreted in pulses from the corticotroph with 40 pulses ± 1.5 measured per 24 hours, on analysis of 10-minute sampling data. These pulses temporally correlate with the pulsed secretion of cortisol, allowing for a 15 minute delay in secretion, and correlate in amplitude ( 152 ). Pulse concordance has been measured at 47% (ACTH to cortisol) and 60% (cortisol to ACTH) in one study ( 153 ), and 90% (ACTH to cortisol) in another ( 154 ). Although the pulsatility of ACTH secretion may result from
