Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


and 60% (cortisol to ACTH) in one study ( 153 ), and 90% (ACTH to cortisol) in another ( 154 ). Although the pulsatility of ACTH secretion may result from pulsatile CRH release, there is evidence that isolated human pituitaries intrinsically release ACTH in a pulsatile fashion ( 155 ). In addition, studies in rats have shown that constant CRH infusion still resulted in oscillations of ACTH and glucocorticoid release ( 156 ). However, the pulsatile activities of ACTH and glucocorticoid are entirely dependent on the level, rather than the pattern, of CRH secretion ( 156 ). The pulsatile release of ACTH induces pulses of glucocorticoid secretion. In rats with HPA axis suppression, constant infusion of ACTH did not induce pulsatile glucocorticoid secretion ( 157 ). It was shown in vitro using ZF cell lines that constant ACTH treatment led to larger increase in pCREB and steroidogenic gene transcription at the start of treatment but the cells became unresponsive to the stimuli over time ( 158 ). The responsiveness of cells to the ACTH treatment could only be maintained with pulsatile ACTH treatment, further supporting the importance of pulsatile release of ACTH physiologically. Recent developments in automated sampling of blood ( 159 ) and tissue interstitial fluid via microdialysis ( 160 ) have also uncovered the ultradian rhythms in plasma ACTH which correlate well with plasma and tissue steroid (cortisol and cortisone) concentrations, indicating that the ultradian rhythms in blood ACTH and cortisol/cortisone translate well to tissue exposure to these steroids. Circadian Rhythm In parallel with cortisol, ACTH levels vary in an endogenous circadian rhythm, reaching a peak between 06.00-09.00h, declining through the day to a nadir between 23.00h-02.00h, and beginning to rise again at about 02.00-03.00h. An increase in ACTH pulse amplitude rather than frequency is responsible for this rhythm ( 152 ). The circadian rhythm in glucocorticoid secretion is a key mechanism for re-entraining behavior in the face of external perturbations such as an abrupt phase shift of light conditions, i.e. a model of ‘jet lag’ ( 161 ). The circadian rhythm is mediated via a master oscillator in the supra-chiasmatic nucleus (SCN). A lesion in the SCN eliminates the glucocorticoid circadian rhythm ( 162 ). An autoregulatory negative transcription-translation loop feedback system involving cyclical synthesis of the period proteins Per1-3, Clock/BMAL1, and Cry1/2 acts as the basic molecular oscillator, where the Clock/BMAL1 heterodimer acts to activate the
