Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


negative transcription-translation loop feedback system involving cyclical synthesis of the period proteins Per1-3, Clock/BMAL1, and Cry1/2 acts as the basic molecular oscillator, where the Clock/BMAL1 heterodimer acts to activate the transcription of Per and Cry proteins (the so-called ‘positive limb’). In turn, the Per and Cry proteins complex together, translocate back into the nucleus and inhibit Clock/BMAL1-mediated transcription (the so-called ‘negative limb’). The system is reset by phosphorylation, ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of the Per/Cry repressor complexes ( 163 , 164 ). Entrainment of the oscillator is achieved by light input from the retina, mediated via the retino-hypothalamic tract. Light-activated transcription of immediate-early genes such as c-fos and JunB ( 165 , 166 ) causes activation of PER1 gene transcription as well as modification of the acetylation pattern of histone tails. The latter are implicated in the control of chromatin structure and accessibility of genes to transcription ( 167 ). The impact of a period protein gene deletion on circulating glucocorticoids depends on which side of the clock feedback loop is affected ( 164 ). Knockout mice with mutations in the components of positive limb of the oscillator ( Clock or BMAL1 ) suffer from hypocortisolism and lose circadian cyclicity ( 168 , 169 ). The deletion of Per2 , which affects the negative limb of the oscillator, also results in hypocortisolism ( 170 ). However, Cry1 knockout (also affecting the negative limb) leads to hypercortisolism ( 171 , 172 ). Is a circadian rhythm in CRH secretion responsible for the ACTH rhythm? Although there is a report of a circadian rhythm in CRH secretion ( 173 ), and in situ hybridization studies show that there is a circadian rhythm in CRH expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus ( 174 ), other reports do not confirm this ( 175 ). Moreover, the circadian rhythm persists despite a continuous infusion of CRH, suggesting that other factors are responsible for the modulation of ACTH pulses ( 176 ). The most likely alternative candidate is AVP: immunocytochemical studies show a circadian rhythm in AVP expression ( 177 ) and Clock knockout mice show a loss of the circadian rhythm in AVP RNA expression in the SCN ( 178 ). In addition, metyrapone and CRH infusion in normal individuals showed a persistence of the HPA circadian rhythm, thus further supporting the role of AVP in regulating ACTH rhythm ( 176 ). However, rhythmic HPA axis
