Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


infusion in normal individuals showed a persistence of the HPA circadian rhythm, thus further supporting the role of AVP in regulating ACTH rhythm ( 176 ). However, rhythmic HPA axis activity is not the be-all and end-all of the circadian rhythm of glucocorticoid release. For example, the adrenal rhythm of cortisol secretion persists after hypophysectomy ( 179 ). Indeed, light pulses can induce glucocorticoid secretion independent of ACTH secretion. This HPA axis-independent pathway is mediated by the sympathetic nervous system innervation of the adrenals ( 180 ). The adrenal glands also possess an independent circadian oscillator: oscillatory Clock/BMAL1, Per1-3 and Cry1 expression is seen in the outer adrenal cortex (zona glomerulosa and zona fasciculata). This adrenal circadian clock appears to ‘gate’ the response to ACTH, i.e. it defines a time window during which ACTH is most able to stimulate glucocorticoid secretion ( 181 ). Exogenous ACTH is capable of phase-dependently resetting glucocorticoid rhythms ( 182 ), suggesting that the adrenal circadian clock can be entrained by the ACTH rhythm. This illustrates a general principle of circadian system organization, namely that there is a hierarchical system with the SCN master clock entraining and coordinating peripheral and non-SCN tissue clocks via endocrine and neuronal signals. Stress Stress, both physical and psychological, induces the release of ACTH and cortisol, particularly via CRH and AVP ( 183 , 184 ), and increases the turnover of these neurohypophysiotropic factors by increasing the transcription of CRH and AVP ( 185 ). During acute stress, an immediate activation of the autonomic nervous system takes place, followed by a delayed response via the HPA axis-mediated release of glucocorticoids ( 164 ). During the initial stage, there is an immediate increase of catecholamines via activation of the sympathetic preganglionic neurons in the spinal cord, which in turn stimulates adrenal medulla production of catecholamines via splanchnic nerve innervation. The catecholamines released will also collectively affect peripheral effector organs where they are translated into the classical fight-or-flight response. The delayed response of stress involves activation of the HPA axis, leading to an increase in glucocorticoid level, which in turn can terminate the effects of the sympathetic response together with the reflex parasympathetic activation. It is important to note that this neurohormonal stress response has an additional endocrine leg in the form of glucagon: together, one of the important effects of this trio is to enhance the release of glucose, amino acids
