Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


stress response has an additional endocrine leg in the form of glucagon: together, one of the important effects of this trio is to enhance the release of glucose, amino acids and fatty acids, a coordinated catabolic response to stress ( 186 ). Stress paradigms studied in humans include hypoglycemia during the insulin tolerance test ( Figure 4 ), and venipuncture ( 187 ). Elective surgery has also long been used as a paradigm of the stress response in humans ( 188-190 ): the magnitude of cortisol rise correlates positively with the severity of surgery ( 191 ). Experimentally, other stress paradigms such as hemorrhage, oxidative stress, intraperitoneal hypertonic saline, restraint/immobilization, foot shock, forced swimming, or shaking are used to study the stress responses in animals. Importantly, different stress paradigms can have differential effects on CRH and AVP. In situ hybridization with intronic and exonic probes can be used to study the transcription of heterogenous nuclear RNA (hnRNA), followed by its processing (including splicing, capping and polyadenylation) to messenger RNA (mRNA) within 1-2 hours. CRH and AVP hnRNA levels in rats subjected to restraint show significant increases at 1 and 2 hours after the induction of stress, followed by significant increases in mRNA levels at 4 hours ( 192 ). In contrast, intraperitoneal hypertonic saline causes a rapid 8.6-fold increase in CRH hnRNA and mRNA within 15 minutes, returning to basal levels by 1 hour. AVP hnRNA responses are slower, peaking at 11.5-fold increase by 2 hours, followed by a prolonged elevation of AVP mRNA levels from 4 hours onwards ( 193 ). As previously noted, serum copeptin can be used as a more stable biomarker of AVP secretion and copeptin increments correlate well with cortisol secretion in a glucagon stimulation test paradigm ( 71 ), but exhibit a sexual dimorphism in the context of the insulin tolerance test ( 72 ). Figure 4. Typical response to hypoglycemia (≤2.2 mmol/l) induced by 0.15 U/kg Actrapid i.v. in a normal subject. Peak cortisol is ≥550 nmol/l. Various stressors are known to stimulate oxytocin release which in turn, at least acutely, appears to potentiate CRH-induced ACTH secretion and therefore cortisol release ( 90 ). There are also roles for endogenous nitric oxide (NO) and carbon monoxide (CO) in modulating the ACTH response to stress ( 194 ). Neuronal NO synthase co-localizes with AVP and to some extent CRH in paraventricular neurons ( 195
