Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


and carbon monoxide (CO) in modulating the ACTH response to stress ( 194 ). Neuronal NO synthase co-localizes with AVP and to some extent CRH in paraventricular neurons ( 195 , 196 ). Knockout mice lacking wild-type and neuronal NO synthase have much reduced quantities of POMC immunoreactivity in their arcuate nuclei and pituitaries compared to wild-type mice ( 195 , 197 ). In general, inflammatory stressors appear to activate an endogenous inhibitory pathway, whereby NO and CO attenuate the stimulated secretion of CRH and AVP. These effects can also be seen in terms of circulating AVP. However, the regulation of the pituitary-adrenal axis by other stressors may involve an activating role for these gaseous neurotransmitters. CRH-R2, as noted above, binds the urocortins 1, 2 and 3, and appears to mediate a down-regulatory role in the HPA response to stress: knockout mice exhibit a ‘hypersensitive’ acute ACTH and corticosterone response ( 198 ) and a defective recovery from stress with a slower drop in corticosterone ( 199 ). Repetitive stress causes variable effects, enhancement or desensitization, on ACTH responses, depending on the stress paradigm involved. This appears to be positively correlated with changes in AVP binding to V1b receptors, reflecting changes in the number of binding sites and not their affinities. It is at present unclear whether this is due to changes in transcription of the V1b gene, alterations in mRNA stability, translational control or recruitment of receptors from intercellular pools ( 200 ). With chronic stress, oxytocin is thought to have a longer term stress-antagonistic function, partially via cortisol-mediated negative feedback on CRH, partially via GABAergic inhibition of CRH neuron function and partially via a direct inhibitory effect of oxytocin on CRH expression ( 90 ). As noted above, circadian rhythms in adrenal ACTH responsiveness, controlled by local oscillator circuits, gate’ the glucocorticoid output in response to a certain level of ACTH. In the case of stress, this leads to markedly different glucocorticoid responses depending on when (during the active or inactive phase) the experimental stress is applied to experimental animals. Moreover, the timing of repetitive stress application can lead to differences in the behavioral and metabolic responses to repetitive/chronic stress. Lastly, it is also known that stress can influence clock function at the level of the SCN and also at the level of the adrenal circadian oscillator leading to phase shifts ( 164 ). In humans, stressors such
