Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


influence clock function at the level of the SCN and also at the level of the adrenal circadian oscillator leading to phase shifts ( 164 ). In humans, stressors such as illness leads to abolition of the diurnal variation of cortisol, which appears to be ACTH independent ( 201 , 202 ). This change in the diurnal regulation of cortisol secretion is linked to regulation of immune responses which is likely to be adaptive in the acute context, but which may be maladaptive with chronic stress ( 203 ). FEEDBACK REGULATION OF THE HPA AXIS Glucocorticoid feedback occurs at multiple levels: at the pituitary, at the hypothalamus, and most importantly, centrally at the level of the hippocampus, which contains the highest concentration of glucocorticoid receptors in the central nervous system. Multiple effects mediate this feedback ( Figure 5 ), including: inhibition of CRH and AVP synthesis and release in the PVN ( 204 , 205 ). inhibition of POMC transcription (as outlined above). inhibition of ACTH release induced by CRH and AVP ( 206 ). Figure 5. Regulation of ACTH. Green arrows denote stimulatory influences, red arrows denote inhibitory influences. Fast feedback occurs within seconds to minutes and involves inhibition of ACTH release by the corticosteroids, mediated through the glucocorticoid receptor (GR). For example, an injection of prednisolone inhibits ovine CRH-stimulated ACTH release within 20 minutes ( 207 ). In vitro this appears to involve inhibition of CRH-stimulated ACTH release, and CRH release, but basal secretion is not affected. Protein synthesis is not required, implying that the glucocorticoid effect is non-genomic ( 208 , 209 ). Cell membrane-associated GR has recently been shown to directly mediate fast feedback inhibition by inhibition of Src phosphorylation in corticotrophs ( 210 ), but other work implicates the GC-induced secretion of annexin 1/lipocortin1 from folliculostellate cells as a paracrine mechanism for inhibition of ACTH release ( 211 ). In addition, receptors for ACTH (MC2R) are present in normal corticotrophs, allowing ‘ultra-fast’ feedback regulation of the HPA axis ( 212 ). The receptor expression is lost in the corticotroph adenomas of patients with Cushing’s disease, which could be the potential mechanism of resistance to feedback of the HPA axis seen in these patients ( 212 ). Intermediate feedback occurs within 4 hours’ time frame and involves inhibition of CRH synthesis and release from CRH neurons, not affecting ACTH synthesis ( 209 ). However, it is
