Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


). Intermediate feedback occurs within 4 hours’ time frame and involves inhibition of CRH synthesis and release from CRH neurons, not affecting ACTH synthesis ( 209 ). However, it is thought that this is a relatively minor contributor to negative feedback ( 73 ). Slow feedback occurs over longer timeframes and involves inhibition of POMC transcription ( 209 ), via GR antagonism of Nur response element activation of POMC transcription by CRH. The molecular mechanism involves a GR-dependent recruitment of the histone deacetylase HDAC2 to a trans-repressor complex with Brg1, histone H4 deacetylation, and chromatin remodeling ( 213 , 214 ). There is evidence that ACTH can inhibit CRH synthesis in the context of elevated CRH levels due to Addison’s disease or hypopituitarism, although not in the context of normal human subjects ( 215 ). Immunohistochemical studies of the paraventricular nuclei in adrenalectomized or hypophysectomized rats show a reduction of CRH and AVP positive cells when these rats are given ACTH infusions ( 216 ). Glucocorticoids have also been shown to control the cell cycle in corticotrophs. This occurs via feedback repression of the positive cell-cycle regulators L-Myc, N-Myc, and E2F2, plus activation of the negative cell-cycle regulators Gadd45β, GADD45γ, and Cables1. In this way, glucocorticoids negatively regulate corticotroph proliferation, a key influence which appears to be lost in corticotroph adenomas ( 217 ). Eating Cortisol is well known to rise after eating ( 218 , 219 ). This rise is provoked by two mechanisms: (i) by direct stimulation of the HPA axis; and (ii) via regeneration of cortisone to cortisol by stimulation of 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11βHSD1) ( 220 ). The postprandial rise in cortisol has been shown to be mediated via increased pituitary ACTH secretion, which is in turn is modulated by central stimulant alpha-1 adrenoreceptors ( 221 ). The cortisol response to food is also enhanced in obese subjects compared to normal BMI individuals ( 222 ). There also appear to be key differences between the effects of individual macronutrients, where carbohydrates lead to equal stimulation of the HPA axis and 11βHSD1, and where fat and protein led to greater stimulation of the HPA axis compared to 11βHSD1. Direct intravenous infusion of macronutrients such as Intralipid and amino acids does not stimulate cortisol secretion ( 223 , 224 ). The most likely candidates for the factors that mediate stimulation of the HPA axis after eating are
