Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


and amino acids does not stimulate cortisol secretion ( 223 , 224 ). The most likely candidates for the factors that mediate stimulation of the HPA axis after eating are the gut hormones which are released in response to enteral nutrients. For example, glucagon-like peptide-1 7-36 (GLP-1 7-36 ) has been shown to stimulate cortisol and ACTH secretion, suggesting a direct effect on the hypothalamus/pituitary ( 225-227 ). Gastric inhibitory peptide (GIP), however, has not been shown to stimulate cortisol secretion except in the special case of ectopic GIP receptors in bilateral adrenal hyperplasia, causing food-stimulated Cushing’s syndrome ( 228 ). 11βHSD1 activity appears to be inhibited by GIP ( 229 ), therefore suggesting the GIP is not a key player in mediating the post-prandial rise in cortisol. Although ghrelin has been shown to increase cortisol secretion when given in infusion ( 108-110 ), ghrelin is suppressed after eating, making it an unlikely mediator of the post-prandial cortisol response. AGING OF THE HPA AXIS Studies in humans and experimental animals have shown evidence that hyperactivity of the HPA axis contributes to neuronal and peripheral deterioration associated with aging ( 230 , 231 ). Hyperactivity of the HPA axis can be caused by stress and is necessary as part of physiological adaptation. However, there must be mechanisms to limit the response to stress, especially during chronic stress, in order to avoid the damaging effects of prolonged exposure to stress hormones such as CRH and corticosterone. High basal levels of glucocorticoids and loss of circadian rhythm have been associated with greater cognitive decline at a given age ( 232 ). Aging is associated with high basal levels of circulating corticosteroids, although there is not always a correlation between plasma ACTH and corticosteroids ( 233-235 ). In addition, there is also an alteration to the circadian rhythm of the HPA axis, as demonstrated by studies using a feeding-associated circadian rhythm paradigm. It was found that it took 1 week for young rats and 3 weeks for older rats to entrain the secretion of corticosterone in response to a restricted feeding schedule where they were fed for 2 hours per day. After the rats were shifted to a different pattern of feeding, the entrained circadian rhythm of corticosterone secretion persisted much longer in young rats than in older rats. This suggests that the aged HPA axis appears to take longer to adjust to changes
