Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


circadian rhythm of corticosterone secretion persisted much longer in young rats than in older rats. This suggests that the aged HPA axis appears to take longer to adjust to changes in circadian rhythm, but such adjustments do not ‘stick’ as well as compared to the younger HPA axis ( 236 , 237 ). When the expression of CRH in the SCN was examined using in situ hybridization, younger 3-4-month-old Sprague-Dawley rats exposed to light from 04.00h to 18.00h have a clear diurnal rhythm with higher expression seen in samples taken at 03.00h versus 23.00h. This rhythm was lost in older 17-20 month old rats with equal expression seen in samples from 03.00h and 23.00h ( 174 ). Fetal grafts containing the SCN have been shown to restore the circadian rhythm in old Sprague-Dawley rats, thereby suggesting that the altered diurnal variation of HPA axis probably involves alterations in the function of the suprachiasmatic nuclei ( 238 ). Aging is also associated with an increase in expression of 11βHSD1 both in brain and peripheral tissues ( 239 , 240 ). Such changes could conceivably expose tissues to elevated levels of glucocorticoids and contribute to the aging process. The effects of aging on CRH regulation and whether CRH influences the course of aging are still unclear. Studies have reported increased, unchanged, or reduced hypothalamic CRH release and expression during aging ( 232 ). GENDER DIFFERENCES IN HPA AXIS REGULATION Endogenous glucocorticoid responses to stress are significantly elevated (in an estrogen-dependent fashion) in females as compared with males ( 241-244 ). This estrogen dependence is likely mediated through estrogen-response elements within the promoter regions of CRH ( 245 ). As previously noted, there is also a sexual differential in the relationship between AVP release and the ACTH/cortisol response during insulin tolerance testing where the serum levels of copeptin (as a marker of AVP release) positively correlate with ACTH/cortisol release in women but not men ( 72 ). However, the sexual dimorphism of the stress response is not seen with exercise-induced stress ( 246 ) nor acute psychological stress ( 247 ). PSYCHONEUROENDOCRINOLOGY OF HPA The link between the HPA axis and psychophysiopathology has long been speculated ( 248 ). Neuropsychological disturbances are well observed in humans and study models with abnormal or aberrant HPA axis. Depression is associated with increased inflammation and given that HPA axis is strictly implicated in inflammation, it is
