Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


observed in humans and study models with abnormal or aberrant HPA axis. Depression is associated with increased inflammation and given that HPA axis is strictly implicated in inflammation, it is hypothesized that alteration in HPA axis is associated with increase in pro-inflammatory cytokines causing depression, at least with a subgroup of individuals with depression ( 249 ). In depression, it is hypothesized that the regulation of ACTH and cortisol secretory activity are altered, along with impaired corticosteroid receptor signaling ( 250 , 251 ). Dysregulation of the HPA axis contributes to suppression of transcription of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) gene, thereby reducing the synthesis and secretion of BDNF protein, a nerve growth factor family ( 252 ). This leads to neurodegenerative changes, most prominently in hippocampus, observed in depression. Chronic excess of cortisol in the brain may also lead to serotonin deficiency due to decreased availability of tryptophan, the substrate for serotonin production, and reduction of density and reactivity of serotonin receptors ( 252 ). The use of antidepressants targeting this aspect of neurotransmission has shown to normalize the activity of HPA axis, decreasing the levels of CRH and consequently also ACTH and cortisol ( 252 ). Some depressed patients were also reported to have enlarged adrenal glands ( 253 , 254 ) and impaired negative feedback with the hypercortisolemia, thereby suggesting that the level of impairment is at the glucocorticoid receptor-dependent negative feedback, either centrally or at the level of pituitary ( 255 , 256 ). However, when a study looking at 24-hour automated blood cortisol sampling study in depressed premenopausal women was conducted, it found only 6 patients (24%) of a cohort of 25 to have hypercortisolemia ( 257 ). This suggests that not all depressed patients will have hypercortisolemia as the main feature of dysregulation of HPA axis. The impairment of the negative feedback was hypothesized to be due to the diminished sensitivity of the glucocorticoid receptors (the ‘glucocorticoid resistance’ theory) secondary to reduced receptor function and expression, shown in large number of experimental, biological and molecular studies ( 258 ). In bipolar disorder, an increase in cortisol secretion may be seen in the manic phase ( 259 ). Interestingly, a weaker cortisol awakening response is observed in patients with depression, mania and partial remission against those of healthy control subjects ( 260 ), thereby indicating dysregulation of HPA axis in bipolar disorder subjects. In schizophrenia,
