Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


observed in patients with depression, mania and partial remission against those of healthy control subjects ( 260 ), thereby indicating dysregulation of HPA axis in bipolar disorder subjects. In schizophrenia, individuals who developed or at risk of developing psychosis have been observed to have elevated levels of cortisol measured upon waking up ( 261 , 262 ). The disturbance is more pronounced in individuals not treated with antipsychotic medications. Elevated cortisol levels appear to be correlated with the risk of a first psychotic episode ( 263 ), but symptom severity is only correlated with cortisol levels during the initial phase of psychosis ( 264-266 ). REGULATION OF GH RELEASE Somatotroph Development and Differentiation Somatotrophs make up approximately 50% of the cell population of the anterior pituitary and generally are concentrated in the lateral wings of the pituitary gland. These cells are characteristically acidophilic, polyhedral and immunopositive for GH and Pit-1. A smaller number of such cells are mammo-somatotrophs, i.e. immunopositive for GH and prolactin ( 267 ). During the process of cell differentiation in the Rathke’s pouch primordium, a cascade of transcription factors is activated to specify anterior pituitary cell types. The two factors particularly involved in differentiation of the lactotroph, somatotroph, and thyrotroph lineages are Prop-1 (Prophet of Pit-1) and Pit-1, also known as GHF-1 and Pou1f1. Prop-1 is a paired-like homeodomain transcription factor; mutations in this gene cause combined GH, prolactin, and TSH deficiency. Mutations of Prop-1 will also give abnormalities of gonadotroph function and, occasionally, corticotroph reserve. Interestingly, these deficiencies are often progressive over time. Pit-1 is part of the POU homeodomain family of transcription factors that includes unc-86, Oct-1, and Oct-2 ( 268 ). Pit-1 is a key transcription factor that activates GH gene transcription in the somatotroph ( vide infra ). The transcription factor Foxo1 (forkhead box transcription factor) is expressed in 40% of somatotrophs. Foxo1 is involved in the development of various other tissues slow-twitch muscle fibers, bone and pancreas, and a global knockout is lethal. A pituitary-specific knockout of Foxo1 causes a delay in the terminal differentiation of somatotrophs but does not affect commitment of pituitary progenitor cells to the somatotroph lineage ( 269 ). Foxo1 exerts its effect via stimulation of NeuroD4 expression which is also important to the terminal differentiation of somatotrophs ( 270 ). Growth Hormone (GH) GH GENOMIC LOCUS Human GH was first isolated in 1956 ( 271 )
