Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


of two DNase-I hypersensitive regions (HS), specifically HG-I site, 14.5 and 30 kb upstream of GH1 appears to be required for pituitary-specific GH1 expression ( 293 ). This region, which also binds Pit-1 ( 294 ), activates histone acetyltransferase, which controls chromatin structure and the accessibility of the GH locus to transcription factors ( 295 , 296 ). The acetylated histone domain potentiates GH transcription and, more recently, HS-I was also shown to be crucial for establishing a domain of non-coding polymerase II transcription necessary for gene activation ( 297 ). Pit-1 is mainly expressed in the pituitary somatotrophs, but it has also notably been demonstrated to be expressed in extrapituitary tissues. Pit-1 regulates local GH expression in the mammary gland and may be involved in mammary development and possibly the pathogenesis of breast carcinoma ( 298 ). GROWTH HORMONE STRUCTURE This is a 191 amino acid single chain polypeptide hormone that occurs in various modified forms in the circulation. During spontaneous pulses of secretion, the majority full-length isoform of 22 kDa makes up 73%, the alternatively spliced 20 kDa isoform contributes 16%, while the ‘acidic’ desamido and N-alpha acylated isoforms make up 10%. During basal secretion between pulses other forms (30 kDa, 16 kDa and 12 kDa) can also be identified which consist of immunoreactive fragments of GH ( 299-301 ). Higher molecular weight forms of GH exist in the circulation, representing GH bound to growth hormone binding proteins (GHBP) ( 302 ). The high-affinity GHBP consists of the extracellular domain of the hepatic GH receptor, and this binds the 22 kDa GH isoform preferentially ( 303 ). This high-affinity GHBP is released into circulation by proteolytic processing of the GH receptor by the metalloprotease TACE/ADAM-17 ( 304 ). The low-affinity GHBP binds the 20 kDa isoform preferentially ( 305 ). Binding of GH to GHBP prolongs the circulation time of GH as the complex is not filtered by the glomeruli ( 300 ). GH/GHBP interactions may also compete for GH binding to its surface receptors ( 306 ). GH is also expressed in other areas of the brain, such as the cortex, hippocampus, cortex, caudate nucleus, and retinal areas ( 307 ), as is the GH receptor, IGF-1, and the IGF-1 receptor, where it is thought that these mediate neuroprotective and regenerative functions ( 308 ). HYPOPHYSIOTROPIC HORMONES AFFECTING GH RELEASE GHRH GHRH was originally isolated from a
