Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


pituitaries has shown that SSTR 2 is present from 13 weeks gestation, mainly on thyrotrophs and gonadotrophs. SSTR 5 is mainly found on somatotrophs and develops relatively late in gestation at 35-38 weeks of gestation, suggesting that SSTR 2 regulates TSH, LH and FSH whereas SSTR 5 regulates GH ( 327 ). The somatostatin receptors couple to various 2 nd messenger systems such as adenylate cyclase, protein phosphatases, phospholipase C, cGMP dependent protein kinases, potassium, and calcium ion channels ( 328 ). Ghrelin Ghrelin is an orexigenic (appetite-stimulatory) peptide that was isolated from stomach and can stimulate the release of GH. It is derived from preproghrelin, a 117 amino acid peptide, by cleavage and n-octanoylation at the third residue to give a 28 amino acid active peptide ( Figure 3 and Figure 6 ). Ghrelin is the endogenous ligand of the GH secretagogue receptor (GHS-R) 1a, another member of the seven-transmembrane receptor family G-protein coupled to the phospholipase C-phosphoinositide pathway ( 329 , 330 ). This variant of GHS-R has been shown to transduce the GH-releasing effect of synthetic growth hormone secretagogues (GHSs) as well as ghrelin and also plays a role in neuroendocrine and appetite-stimulating activities centrally. Both ghrelin and GHS-R1a have corresponding widespread tissue expression ( 331 ). The other GHS-R variant, GHS-R1b, is a 289 amino acid G-protein coupled receptor with five transmembrane domains. The biological function of GHS-R1b is unclear. It has widespread expression throughout the body ( 331 ) but does not bind to ghrelin or other GHSs. However, it was shown to have counter-regulatory attenuating role on GHS-R1a signaling, possibly via the formation of heterodimers with GHS-R1a ( 332 ). The majority of circulating ghrelin exists as the des-octanoylated (des-acyl) form: octanoylated ghrelin constitutes approximately 1.8% of the total amount of circulating ghrelin ( 333 ). Octanoylation appears to be essential for GH secretagogue activity, as des-acyl ghrelin is inactive for GH release ( 329 ). The enzyme that octanoylates ghrelin has recently been identified as ghrelin O-acyltransferase (GOAT) ( 334 ). GOAT is a porcupine-like enzyme belonging to the super-family of membrane-bound O-acyltransferase 4 (MBOAT4) and has widespread tissue expression corresponding to ghrelin ( 335 ). Historically, the earliest GH secretagogues discovered such as GHRP-1, GHRP-2, GHRP-6, and hexarelin were synthetic and derived from the enkephalins ( 336 ). In the circulation, ghrelin appears to be bound to a subfraction of HDL particles
