Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


as GHRP-1, GHRP-2, GHRP-6, and hexarelin were synthetic and derived from the enkephalins ( 336 ). In the circulation, ghrelin appears to be bound to a subfraction of HDL particles containing clusterin and the A-esterase paraoxonase. It has been suggested that paraoxonase may be responsible for catalyzing the conversion of ghrelin to des-acyl ghrelin ( 337 ). However, inhibition of paraoxonase in human serum does not inhibit the de-acylation of ghrelin, and there is a negative correlation in these sera between the paraoxonase activity and ghrelin degradation. Instead, it is more likely that butyrylcholinesterase and other B-esterases are responsible for this activity ( 338 ). Ghrelin is present in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus and in the anterior pituitary ( 339 ). Immunofluorescence studies show that ghrelin is localized in somatotrophs, thyrotrophs, and lactotrophs, but not in corticotrophs or gonadotrophs, suggesting that ghrelin may be acting in a paracrine fashion in the anterior pituitary ( 340 ). It stimulates GH release in vitro directly from somatotrophs ( 329 ) and also when infused in vivo , although the latter action appears to require the participation of an intact GHRH system ( 319 ). Ghrelin stimulates GH secretion in a synergistic fashion when co-infused with GHRH ( 110 ). Both GHS and ghrelin have been shown to stimulate the release of GH in a dose-related pattern which is more marked in humans than in animals ( 341 , 342 ). Besides its GH releasing activity, ghrelin has orexigenic activity ( 343 , 344 ), and stimulates insulin secretion ( 345 ), ACTH and prolactin release ( 346 ). Knocking out the preproghrelin gene in mice does not seem to affect their size, growth rate, food intake, body composition, and reproduction, indicating that proghrelin products (acyl- or desacyl-ghrelin, obestatin) are not dominantly and critically involved in mouse viability, appetite regulation, and fertility ( 347 ), although subtle reductions in the amplitude of secretory GH peaks can be detected in these knockout mice during their youth: these differences recede with aging ( 348 ). Ghrelin null mice show an increased utilization of fat as an energy substrate when placed on a high-fat diet, which may indicate that ghrelin is involved in modulating the use of metabolic substrates ( 349 ). GHS-R knockout mice have the same food intake and body composition as their wild-type littermates, although their body weight is decreased in
