Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


the use of metabolic substrates ( 349 ). GHS-R knockout mice have the same food intake and body composition as their wild-type littermates, although their body weight is decreased in comparison. However, treatment of GHS-R null mice with ghrelin does not stimulate GH release or food intake, confirming that these properties of ghrelin are mediated through the GHS-R ( 350 ). Although it is clear that acyl-ghrelin activates GH secretion when injected into mice and men, the specific contribution of acyl-ghrelin to physiological pulsatile GH release is less clear. This question has been studied by knocking out GOAT: these mice showed an overall decline in the amount of GH release compared to age matched wild-type mice. The alteration of the GH release observed did not coincide with alterations in the pituitary GH content and GHRH, somatostatin, neuropeptide Y, or GHS-R mRNA expression. However, an increase in pulse number and greater irregularity of GH pulses was observed in these mice. Although other mutations that cause derangement of GH secretion have been previously associated with the ‘feminization’ of the expression of GH-dependent sexually divergent liver genes in male animals, there was no evidence of this in the Goat -/- mice. An increase in IGF-1 in the circulation, in the liver and also in the muscle was observed in the Goat -/- mice, either as a result of the disordered GH pulse pattern, or because there was a failure of the elevated IGF-1 levels to feedback on GH release. Overall, the data suggest that acyl-ghrelin has a regulatory role in the patterning of GH secretion, but the absence of acyl-ghrelin does not fatally knock out GH production ( 351 ). To complicate things further, des-acyl ghrelin may have biological effects of its own. It has been shown to inhibit apoptosis and cell death in primary cardiomyocyte and endothelial cell cultures ( 352 ), to have varying effects on the proliferation of various prostate carcinoma cell lines ( 353 ), to inhibit isoproterenol-induced lipolysis in rat adipocyte cultures ( 354 ), and to induce hypotension and bradycardia when injected into the nucleus tractus solitarii of rats ( 355 ). More controversially, intracerebroventricular or peripherally administered des-acyl ghrelin causes a decrease in food consumption in fasted mice and inhibits gastric emptying. Des-acyl ghrelin overexpression in transgenic mice causes a decrease in body weight, food intake, fat pad mass weight, and decreased linear growth compared to
