Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


fasted mice and inhibits gastric emptying. Des-acyl ghrelin overexpression in transgenic mice causes a decrease in body weight, food intake, fat pad mass weight, and decreased linear growth compared to normal littermates ( 356 ). These observations were not replicated by other researchers, who found no effect of des-acyl ghrelin on feeding ( 357 ). The effects of des-acyl ghrelin appear not to be mediated via the type 1a or 1b GHS-R ( 352-354 ). The effects of peripherally administered des-acyl ghrelin on stomach motility can be inhibited by intracerebrovascular CRH receptor type 2 antagonists, suggesting that CRH receptor type 2 is involved, but there is no direct evidence that des-acyl ghrelin binds this receptor ( 358 ) As noted above, the GH-stimulatory actions of ghrelin in vivo seem to require an intact GHRH system, as immunoneutralization of GHRH blocks ghrelin-induced GH secretion ( 319 ). The actions of GH secretagogues are blocked by hypothalamo-pituitary disconnection, which suggests that in vivo ghrelin’s stimulatory actions are indirect and mediated by GHRH ( 359 ). However, GHRH cannot be the sole mediator of ghrelin’s actions as the GH response to ghrelin is greater than that to GHRH ( 360 ), and, as noted above, ghrelin synergistically potentiates GH release by a maximal dose of GHRH ( 110 ). There is no evidence to suggest that ghrelin decreases somatostatinergic tone as immunoneutralization of somatostatin does not block ghrelin’s ability to release GH ( 319 ). There may therefore be another mediator, the so-called ‘U’ factor, released by ghrelin, which causes GH secretion ( 361 ). Macimorelin (also known as Ghryelin) is an orally available ghrelin receptor (GHSR) agonist which is now validated for stimulation testing for GH reserve ( 362 ). LEAP2 Liver-expressed antimicrobial peptide 2 (LEAP2) has recently been discovered as an endogenous antagonist to GHSR ( 363 ). It is produced in the small intestines, mainly in the jejunum ( 363 ). Level of LEAP2 declines with fasting, as opposed to the level of ghrelin which goes up ( 363 , 364 ). In addition, the expression of LEAP2 is significantly upregulated following bariatric surgery, which is currently the most effective treatment for obesity ( 363 ). In vivo studies have shown that LEAP2 is capable of inhibiting the effects of ghrelin on GH secretion and food intake ( 363 ). LEAP2 is also shown to bind to GHSR in a
