Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


shown that LEAP2 is capable of inhibiting the effects of ghrelin on GH secretion and food intake ( 363 ). LEAP2 is also shown to bind to GHSR in a non-competitive manner to ghrelin, thereby suggesting the presence of an allosteric site on the receptor ( 363 ). Obestatin As mentioned earlier, the effects of obestatin on pituitary hormones release remain controversial. Initial study has shown that intravenous or intracerebrovascular treatment of obestatin did not affect the release of growth hormone in male rats ( 116 ). However, a more recent study has shown that obestatin treatment inhibits both basal and ghrelin-induced GH release and expression, both in vitro and in vivo in non-human primates and in mice ( 119 ). This inhibitory effect is mediated by the adenylyl-cyclase and MAPK pathways. Obestatin treatment causes a reduction in Pit-1 and GHRH-R mRNA levels in the pituitary as well as a decrease in hypothalamic GHRH and ghrelin expression. Obestatin also reduces the expression of pituitary somatostatin receptors, namely SSTR subtypes 1 and 2 ( 119 ). OTHER INFLUENCES ON GROWTH HORMONE RELEASE Glucocorticoids and Sex Hormones Glucocorticoid treatment has a biphasic effect on GH secretion: an initial acute stimulation in 3 hours, followed by suppression within 12 hours ( 365 , 366 ). The latter is the clinically important effect, as excess endogenous and exogenous glucocorticoids are well known to suppress growth in children ( 367 ). The inhibitory effect of glucocorticoids on GH release is possibly mediated by increase in expression of somatostatin ( 368 ). Sex hormones are also involved in regulating GH release particularly during puberty and also later in life. They affect GH release by acting at hypothalamic, pituitary, and peripheral levels. Both estrogen and testosterone increase GH secretion in humans by amplifying secretory burst mass and reduce the orderliness of GH secretion ( 369 ). Estrogen affects GH secretion mainly by interacting with the estrogen receptor-alpha expressed in the GHRH neurons and in the GH-secreting pituitary cells. The stimulatory effects of estrogen on GH secretion are possibly mediated by the release of GHRH and/or by enhancing the sensitivity to ghrelin released from the hypothalamus ( 370 ). Estrogen increases the irregularity in pulsatility and lowers total and free IGF-1. Although estrogen increases the secretion of GH, it is also known to counter-regulate itself by reducing GH sensitivity in the liver and other peripheral organs, hence decreasing
