Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


and free IGF-1. Although estrogen increases the secretion of GH, it is also known to counter-regulate itself by reducing GH sensitivity in the liver and other peripheral organs, hence decreasing the secretion of IGF-1. The mechanism of this effect is via upregulating the SOCS-2 protein which in turn inhibits the JAK1-STAT5 signal transduction pathway of the GHR ( 371 ). GH deficient patients started on estrogen therapy therefore require a higher dose of GH replacement therapy to achieve a particular target IGF-1 level ( 372 ). The route of estrogen replacement is an important influence on GH requirement and those on oral estrogen are clearly more GH resistant than women using transdermal preparations ( 373 , 374 ). Testosterone, on the other hand, increases basal GH secretion and IGF-1 concentrations, thus relieving the negative feedback on GH secretion ( 369 ). Leptin Leptin is a 167 amino acid anorexigenic peptide primarily produced by white adipose tissue ( 375 ), regulates body fat mass ( 376 ) by feedback inhibition of the appetite centers of the hypothalamus ( 377 ). Leptin and its receptor have been detected both by RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry in surgical pituitary adenoma specimens and in normal pituitary tissue ( 378 , 379 ). However, pituitary adenoma cells in culture do not secrete GH in response to leptin treatment ( 379 , 380 ). Leptin increases GH secretion in the short term, mainly via an increase in GHRH secretion and decrease in somatostatin expression. In the long term, it leads to a decrease in GH secretion, probably reducing GHRH sensitivity ( 381 ). In obese subjects, in whom which plasma leptin levels are persistently elevated, GH secretion and responsiveness are reduced in both animals and humans ( 382 ). However, if leptin-deficient obese subjects are studied in parallel with sex and BMI-matched leptin-replete obese subjects, it is found that their GH responses to GHRH and GHRP-6 are equally blunted suggesting that the leptin is not influential in mediating the hyposomatotropinism of obesity ( 383 ). IGSF1 IGSF1 (X-linked immunoglobulin superfamily, member 1) gene encodes a transmembrane immunoglobulin superfamily glycoprotein that is highly expressed in the Rathke’s pouch, adult anterior pituitary cells, and the hypothalamus. Loss of function mutations in IGSF1 result in a variable spectrum of anterior pituitary dysfunction, including central hypothyroidism and hypoprolactinemia ( 384 , 385 ). More recently, effects of IGSF1 deficiency on somatroph function
