Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


in IGSF1 result in a variable spectrum of anterior pituitary dysfunction, including central hypothyroidism and hypoprolactinemia ( 384 , 385 ). More recently, effects of IGSF1 deficiency on somatroph function were characterized in adult males harboring hemizygous IGSF1 loss-of-function mutations and Igsf1- deficient mice ( 386 ). It was shown that IGFS1-deficient patients develop acromegaloid facial features accompanied by elevated IGF-1 concentrations and GH profile. Similar biochemical profiles were also observed in the male Igsf1- deficient mice. The exact mechanism of how IGSF1 regulates or influence GH secretion has not been elucidated. Kisspeptin Kisspeptin is a peptide hormone that binds to the G-protein coupled receptor GPR54. Although it was originally characterized as a ‘metastasis suppressor’ gene, its most well-characterized role is in stimulating the secretion of GnRH from GnRH neurons, in turn leading to gonadotrophin production from pituitary gonadotrophs. In addition to this, kisspeptin stimulates GH release from somatotrophs ( 387 , 388 ). These positive effects of kisspeptin are seen when given in vivo to cows or sheep ( 389 ), but so far have not been seen when given intravenously in small studies in human volunteers ( 390 ), although this may be because the GH stimulatory effects are only observed with central administration. Catecholamines In general, alpha-adrenergic pathways stimulate GH secretion, by stimulation of GHRH release and inhibition of somatostatinergic tone, while beta-adrenergic pathways inhibit secretion by increasing somatostatin release ( 391 , 392 ). The alpha 2 -adrenoceptor agonist clonidine can therefore be used as a provocative test of GH secretion ( 393 , 394 ) although clinical experience suggests that this is an unreliable stimulatory test for GH secretion in practice. L-dopa stimulates GH secretion; however, this action does not appear to be mediated via dopamine receptors as specific blockade of these receptors with pimozide does not alter the GH response to L-dopa ( 395 ). Instead, L-dopa’s effects appear to depend on conversion to noradrenaline or adrenaline, as alpha-adrenoceptor blockade with phentolamine disrupts the GH response to L-dopa ( 396 ). Acetylcholine Muscarinic pathways are known to stimulate GH secretion, probably by modulating somatostatinergic tone ( 397 ). Pyridostigmine, an indirect agonist which blocks acetylcholinesterase, increases the 24 hour secretion of GH by selectively increasing GH pulse mass ( 398 ). On the other hand, the muscarinic antagonist atropine is able to blunt the GH release associated with slow wave sleep ( 399 )
