Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


increasing GH pulse mass ( 398 ). On the other hand, the muscarinic antagonist atropine is able to blunt the GH release associated with slow wave sleep ( 399 ) and that associated with GHRH administration ( 400 ). Passive immunization with anti-somatostatin antibodies abolishes the pyridostigmine induced rise in GH in rats, but not immunization with anti-GHRH antibodies, supporting the central role of somatostatinergic tone in mediating this response ( 401 ). Dopamine Continuous infusion of dopamine into normal healthy men leads to an increase in mean GH secretion comparable to that observed with GHRH. When given together, dopamine and GHRH have additive effects on GH secretion, and similarly the dopamine agonist bromocriptine augments the effects of GHRH ( 402 ). Endogenous Opioids Endorphins and enkephalins are able to stimulate GH secretion in man ( 403 ), and blockade with opiate antagonists can attenuate the GH response to exercise ( 404 ). Passive immunization against GHRH in rats inhibits GH release in response to an enkephalin analogue, which argues for stimulation of GHRH in response to these compounds ( 405 ). In keeping with this, a recent study demonstrated close juxtapositions between the enkephalinergic/ endorphinergic/ dynorphinergic axonal varicosities and GHRH-immunoreactive perikarya in the human hypothalamus ( 406 ). Morphologically, the majority of contacts between the GHRH perikarya and endogenous opiates were enkephalinergic while only few dynorphin- and endorphin-GHRH interactions were detected. Enkephalinergic-GHRH interactions and fibers are known to be densely populated in the infundibular nucleus and anterior periventricular area, thereby suggesting that enkephalin regulates not only the activity of GHRH- but also somatostatin-synthesizing neurons ( 407 ). The balance between the activation of GHRH and somatostatin neuronal systems may determine if enkephalin stimulates or inhibits or has no effect on pituitary GH secretion. Unfortunately, the study was unable to detect the presence of synapses between the enkephalinergic/ endorphinergic/ dynorphinergic and GHRH neurons because the immunocytochemistry was carried out under light microscope. Electron microscopy was not applied in the study due to the long post-mortem period. Nevertheless, these findings demonstrated the presence of intimate associations between the endogenous opioid and GHRH systems in the human hypothalamus, as well as indicated the significant differences between the regulatory roles of endogenous opioids on growth in humans. Stimulation of GHRH by endorphins and enkephalins cannot be the only mechanism increasing GH release, however, as the met-enkephalin analogue DAMME is able to increase GH
