Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


on growth in humans. Stimulation of GHRH by endorphins and enkephalins cannot be the only mechanism increasing GH release, however, as the met-enkephalin analogue DAMME is able to increase GH release over and above the levels released during maximal stimulation by a GHRH analogue ( 408 ). It is possible that the actions of endogenous opioids occur via an interaction with the GHS-R, as the original GH secretagogues characterized were derived from the enkephalins ( 336 ). Endocannabinoids As with ACTH/cortisol, the endocannabinoids may also influence the release of GH. Somatotroph cells bear the CB1 receptor ( 101 ). The administration of THC for 14 days suppresses GH secretion in response to hypoglycemia in healthy human subjects ( 104 ). Oddly enough, THC and anandamide appear to have opposing effects on GH levels in ovariectomized rats: THC increases and anandamide decreases GH secretion in this context ( 409 ). However, the treatment of anterior pituitary cells in primary culture with THC does not seem to influence the release of GH and prolactin to GHRH and TRH, suggesting that the effects of THC are mediated via the hypothalamus and not directly on the anterior pituitary ( 410 ), perhaps by stimulating somatostatin release ( 411 ). Ghrelin and the Endocannabinoid System Ghrelin and the endocannabinoid system interact in a bidirectional fashion. The intraperitoneal administration of cannabinoids results in increased plasma ghrelin levels and stomach ghrelin expression in rats ( 412 ) and CB1 receptor antagonism with rimonabant reduces ghrelin levels ( 413 ), suggesting that the orexigenic effects of cannabinoids may also be connected to an increase in ghrelin secretion from the gastric X/A-like cells. The effects of ghrelin on appetite were also abolished in CB1 knockout or in the presence of the CB1 antagonist rimonabant ( 414-416 ). In addition, the effects of cannabinoids are also abolished in the absence of the ghrelin receptor GHS-R1a ( 417 ). These findings confirm that both ghrelin and cannabinoid signaling pathways have to intact to mediate the effects of these two systems on appetite. Interestingly, in vivo and in vitro GH release is intact in response to ghrelin in CB1-knockout animals ( 415 ). These findings are intriguing because they suggest that the effects of ghrelin on GH release are somehow modulated differently at the receptor-binding stage of the pathway compared to its orexigenic and metabolic effects. Moreover, it has also been proposed
