Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


effects of ghrelin on GH release are somehow modulated differently at the receptor-binding stage of the pathway compared to its orexigenic and metabolic effects. Moreover, it has also been proposed that the bidirectional relationship of the ghrelin and endocannabinoid system might be potentially mediated by the interaction (e.g. heterodimerization) between GHS-R1a and CB1 receptors ( 417 ). However, further molecular and functional studies are needed to elucidate the exact mechanism of interaction between these two systems. Free Fatty Acids The negative feedback regulation of plasma free fatty acids on growth hormone secretion has long been studied ( 418 ). Low free fatty acids have been shown to stimulate GH release, although there is a lag period between these two phenomena. Similarly, high plasma levels of free fatty acids have been shown to stimulate splanchnic somatostatin, thereby affecting GH secretion ( 419 ). Studies on both hypothalamic and cortical cell cultures have shown marked decrease in somatostatin mRNA levels when both the neuronal cells are treated with free fatty acids, thereby indicating the possible role for free fatty acids in the regulation of the GH secretion centrally ( 420 ). Other Neuropeptides and Factors Affecting GH Secretion Many neuropeptides, including the ones in the following paragraphs, have been shown to influence GH secretion in various contexts. For the most part, however, their physiological role in man is not well characterized. Infusion of galanin , a 29 amino acid peptide originally isolated from the small intestine, causes stimulation of GH secretion when infused alone and also enhances GHRH-stimulated GH secretion ( 421 ). Calcitonin , the 32 amino acid peptide secreted from the C cells of the thyroid gland, appears to inhibit the stimulated secretion of GH by GHRH, arginine, and insulin-induced hypoglycemia ( 422 , 423 ). Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is an orexigenic peptide that has been shown to inhibit GH secretion in rats ( 424-426 ), from human somatotroph tumor cells in culture ( 427 ), and from rat hypothalamic explants ( 428 ). When infused into patients with prolactin-secreting pituitary adenomas, 9 out of 15 patients showed a paradoxical rise in GH levels ( 429 ). However, when infused into healthy young men overnight, NPY did not have any significant effect on GH secretion ( 430 ). Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) is a hypothalamic C-terminally amidated 38 residue peptide hormone originally characterized on the basis of its ability
