Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


significant effect on GH secretion ( 430 ). Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) is a hypothalamic C-terminally amidated 38 residue peptide hormone originally characterized on the basis of its ability to stimulate cAMP accumulation from anterior pituitary cells ( 431 ). In rats, PACAP stimulates GH release from pituitary cell lines and also when infused in vivo ( 432-434 ). When infused into human volunteers, however, GH levels do not appear to be affected ( 435 ). Klotho, a transmembrane protein that is classically known for its ‘co-receptor’ activity with fibroblast growth hormone receptors, has recently been characterized as a possible secretagogue for GH. Although it is usually attached to membranes, the extracellular region can be shed from the cell surface, and there is some evidence for endocrine activity. Klotho knockout mice exhibit reduced growth in the context of a ‘early aging’ phenotype, and histopathological examination of their somatotrophs demonstrate reduced numbers of secretory granules. Klotho treatment of somatotrophs in vitro has been demonstrated to increase GH secretion, but at present its physiological role is yet to be fully elucidated ( 436 ). GPR101 , an orphan GPCR that is constitutively coupled to G s , has been shown to induce GH secretion through the activation of protein kinase A and protein kinase C in the G s and G q /11 pathways ( 437 ). Transgenic mice with overexpression of pituitary-specific Gpr101 develops gigantism phenotype and has hypersecretion of GH, in the absence of pituitary hyperplasia or tumorigenesis, thereby indicating that the role of Gpr101 in the pituitary enhances secretion rather than enhancing proliferation ( 437 ). In humans, duplication of the GPR101 gene and thus, overexpression of GPR101, leads to a severe form of pituitary gigantism known as X-linked acrogigantism (X-LAG) ( 438-441 ). X-LAG is characterized by infant-onset somatotroph tumors or hyperplasia with high levels of GH and in most cases prolactin as well. Nesfatins , and nesfatin-like-peptides, are hypothalamic and brainstem peptides speculated to be involved in energy homeostasis ( 442 ). They have been shown to inhibit GH release in mammalian somatotroph cell lines ( 443 ). Both of these peptides bind to the membrane of the GH3 cells, thereby indicating the possibility of a GPCR-mediated action ( 443 ). Interestingly, their effects on GH synthesis seem to be concentration-dependent, as low and high concentrations of nesfatins downregulate the expression of GH mRNA, while medium
