Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


GPCR-mediated action ( 443 ). Interestingly, their effects on GH synthesis seem to be concentration-dependent, as low and high concentrations of nesfatins downregulate the expression of GH mRNA, while medium concentrations of nesfatins does not produce this effect ( 443 ). Their physiological significance in humans has not yet been established. FEEDBACK LOOPS OF GH SECRETION Multiple negative feedback loops exist to autoregulate the GH axis ( Figure 7 ). Somatostatin auto-inhibits its own secretion ( 444 ). GHRH auto-inhibits its own secretion by stimulating somatostatin release ( 445 ). GH auto-regulates its own secretion in short term by stimulating somatostatin release and inhibiting GHRH-stimulated GH release ( 446-448 ). There is also a negative feedback on stomach ghrelin release by GH ( 449 ). More recently, it is demonstrated that in long-term feedback situation, the inhibition of GH release is most likely due to feedback inhibition by IGF-1 ( 450 ). IGF-1 , whose production is stimulated by GH, inhibits GH release in a biphasic manner: ( 1 ) by stimulating hypothalamic somatostatin release early, and ( 2 ) by inhibiting GH release after 24 hours, probably by inhibiting GH mRNA transcription ( 451 , 452 ). Interestingly, IGF-1 infusion suppresses GHRH-induced GH release in males but not in females, suggesting a sexually dimorphic effect ( 450 ). Figure 7. Regulation of GH. Green arrows denote stimulatory influences, red arrows denote inhibitory influences. PHYSIOLOGY OF GH SECRETION Pulsatility of GH Secretion The secretory pattern of GH was first elucidated in rats ( 453 ). Circulating GH levels are pulsatile, with high peaks separated by valleys where the GH is undetectable by conventional RIAs or IRMAs ( Figure 8 ). The recent development of sensitive chemiluminescent assays for GH with high frequency sampling and deconvolution analysis has allowed the detailed study of GH secretion. This shows that there are detectable levels of basal GH secretion in the ‘valleys’ ( 454 ). On average, there are 10 pulses of GH secretion per day lasting a mean of 96.4 mins with 128 mins between each pulse ( 455 ). The diurnal secretory pattern of GH in human is fully developed after puberty, demonstrating a major peak at late night/early morning which is associated with NREM (slow wave)-sleep, and a number of peaks during the light hours of the day, but with quite large individual difference ( 456 ). Figure 8. Pulsatility of
