Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


associated with NREM (slow wave)-sleep, and a number of peaks during the light hours of the day, but with quite large individual difference ( 456 ). Figure 8. Pulsatility of circulating GH levels in adult men and women. There is a dynamic interplay of pulsatile GHRH and somatostatin secretion: Via crosstalk : GHRH neurons receive inhibitory inputs from somatostatin neurons, whilst somatostatin neurons receive direct stimulatory inputs from GHRH neurons Via synergistic actions on somatotrophs : Pre-exposure to somatostatin enhances GHRH-stimulated secretion of GH ( 457 ). Further studies in animals have revealed that somatotropin releasing inhibiting factor regulates the magnitude of the troughs of GH as well as the amplitude of the peaks, whereas GHRH functions as the main regulator of the pulsatile pattern ( 450 , 458 , 459 ). Interestingly, continuous GHRH administration in human volunteers does not affect the pulsatility of GH secretion ( 460 ). Moreover, patients with an inactivating mutation of the GHRH receptor continue to show pulsatile GH secretion, suggesting that somatostatin pulsatility is sufficient to determine GH pulsatility ( 461 ). These observations suggest that the mechanisms involved in humans may differ from the animal models. GH and Sexual Dimorphism The technical developments in sensitive detection of GH and deconvolution analysis referred to above have elucidated differences in secretion between men and women. Women have higher mean GH levels throughout the day than men due to higher incremental and maximal GH peak amplitudes ( Figure 8 ), but show no significant difference in GH half-life, interpulse times, or pulse frequency ( 462 ). The higher basal GH levels may underlie the higher nadir GH levels seen in normal women after GH suppression with oral glucose ( 463 ). Recent evidence suggests that there are sexual differences in the expression of somatostatin and somatostatin receptor subtypes in the rat pituitary, which would clearly cause differences in the physiological regulation of GH release ( 464 ). Differences in GH secretion patterns between the sexes, with male ‘pulsatile’ secretion versus female ‘continuous’ secretion, can cause different patterns of gene activation in target tissues, e.g. induction of linear growth patterns, gain of body weight, induction of liver enzymes and STAT 5b signaling pathway activity ( 465 ). GH and Aging GH and IGF-1 levels are known to decline continuously with age and to very low levels in those aged ≥60 years ( 466 ). This phenomenon,
