Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


). GH and Aging GH and IGF-1 levels are known to decline continuously with age and to very low levels in those aged ≥60 years ( 466 ). This phenomenon, known as the ‘somatopause’, is also seen in other mammals and has led to the speculation that GH treatment can be a potent anti-aging therapy ( 467 ). Conversely, decreased GH/IGF-1 signaling has also been shown to extend longevity in a wide variety of species such as worms, fruit flies, mice, and yeast ( 468 ), thus raising the question of whether decreased activity of the GH/IGF-1 axis might be beneficial for human longevity. Somatopause might therefore be nature’s way of sustaining the aging individual ( 469 ). It is also suggested that the anorexia associated with aging is due to the decline in the level of acylated ghrelin in older adults. This is supported by a recent study that showed an age-dependent decline in both circulating acyl-ghrelin and growth hormone levels in older adults (aged 62-74 years, BMI range 20.9-29 kg/m 2 ) compared to young adults (aged 18-28 years, BMI range 20.6-26.2 kg/m 2 ) ( 470 ). By estimating the correlations between amplitudes of individual GH secretory events and the average acyl-ghrelin concentration in the 60-minute interval preceding each GH burst, the ghrelin/GH association was more than 3-fold lower in the older group compared with the young adults, thus suggesting that with normal aging, endogenous acyl-ghrelin levels are less tightly linked to GH regulation. In addition, ghrelin mimetics have also been shown to be a potential treatment for the musculoskeletal impairment associated with aging ( 471 ). Sleep The secretion rate of GH shows a circadian pattern, with peak rates measured during sleep. These are approximately triple the daytime rate ( 472 ). GH secretion is especially associated with slow wave sleep (SWS – stages 3 and 4) ( 473 ). Deep sleep is also shown to enhance the activity of GH axis and has an inhibitory effect on cortisol levels ( 474 ). The decline in GH secretion during aging is paralleled by the decreasing proportion of time spent in SWS, although it is unclear which is cause and which is effect ( 475 ). In early data from a clinical trial, GH deficient patients have increased sleep fragmentation and decreased total sleep time, and it is conjectured that such alterations in sleep patterns may be
