Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


early data from a clinical trial, GH deficient patients have increased sleep fragmentation and decreased total sleep time, and it is conjectured that such alterations in sleep patterns may be responsible for excessive daytime sleepiness in such patients ( 476 ). Sleep deprivation, in the laboratory or due to travel causing ‘jet lag’, causes two alterations in the GH secretory pattern: the magnitude of secretory spikes is augmented: the return to pre-travel levels takes at least 11 days and is slower to recover after westward travel. The major pulse of GH secretion occurring in early sleep is also shifted to late sleep ( 477 ). It is also noted that the GH pulses are more equally distributed throughout 24 hours of sleep deprivation compared to a night-time sleep condition, with large individual pulses occurring during the day ( 478 ). Administration of a GHRH antagonist reduces nocturnal GH pulsatility by 75% ( 479 ). Normal subjects remain sensitive to GHRH boluses during the night, however, and the lowering of somatostatinergic tone during the night may be responsible for the increase in GH secretion rate ( 480 ). Recent work, however, has also demonstrated that ghrelin levels rise through the night in lean men ( 481 ). It is likely, therefore, that a combination of increased GHRH, decreased somatostatin and increased ghrelin levels underlie the circadian variation in GH secretion. Administration of GHRH augments increased nocturnal GH release and promotes SWS. Somatostatin does not change nocturnal GH release, and does not affect the proportion of SWS, but may increase rapid eye movement (REM) sleep density ( 482 ). Ghrelin has been shown to promote slow wave sleep at the expense of REM sleep, accompanied by an increase in GH and prolactin release when administered exogenously ( 483 ). Exercise Exercise is a powerful stimulus to secretion of GH ( 484 ), which occurs by about 15 min from the start of exercise ( 485 ). The kinetics may vary between subjects, an effect which is likely to be related to differences in age, sex and body composition ( 486 ). Ten minutes of high-intensity exercise is required to stimulate a significant rise in GH ( 487 ). Anaerobic exercise causes a larger release of GH than aerobic exercise of the same duration ( 488 ). Acetylcholine, adrenaline, noradrenaline, and endogenous opioids have been implicated in exercise-induced GH release ( 397 ).
