Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


larger release of GH than aerobic exercise of the same duration ( 488 ). Acetylcholine, adrenaline, noradrenaline, and endogenous opioids have been implicated in exercise-induced GH release ( 397 ). However, ghrelin levels do not rise in acute exercise, indicating that ghrelin may not have a role to play in exercise-induced GH release ( 489 ). Recent evidence also indicates that exercise enhances SWS and thus leads to increase in GH release as well as brain-derived neutrotrophic factors (BDNF) and IGF-1 gene expression and protein levels ( 490 , 491 ). This is thought to improve learning and memory performance, especially in the elderly ( 490 , 491 ). Sleep-deprived individuals seem to have a larger exercise-induced GH response, although the reason behind this is still unclear ( 492 ). Hypoglycemia Insulin-induced hypoglycemia is another powerful stimulus to GH secretion ( Figure 9 ) ( 493 , 494 ). The peak GH levels achieved during insulin stress testing correlate well with those achieved during slow wave sleep ( 495 ). The hypoglycemic response is mediated by alpha 2 -adrenergic receptors ( 496 ) to cause inhibition of somatostatin release ( 397 ), although other evidence argues for a role of stimulated GHRH release, as a GHRH receptor antagonist significantly suppressed hypoglycemic GH release ( 497 ). Ghrelin is unlikely to be involved in the GH response to insulin-induced hypoglycemia as circulating ghrelin levels are suppressed by the insulin bolus ( 498 ). Figure 9. Normal response of GH to insulin-induced hypoglycemia (≤2.2 mmol/l). Peak GH secreted is ≥6.66 µg/L. Other Stressors Other physical stresses such as hypovolemic shock ( 499 ) and elective surgery ( 500 ) cause increased GH release; alpha-adrenergic dependent mechanisms are thought to underly this, as blockade with phentolamine inhibits the response ( 500 ). Hyperglycemia In contrast to hypoglycemia, ingestion of an oral glucose load causes an initial suppression of plasma GH levels for 1-3 hours ( Figure 10 ), followed by a rise in GH concentrations at 3-5 hours ( 501 ). The initial suppression could be mediated by increased somatostatin release as pyridostigmine, a postulated inhibitor of somatostatin release, blocks this suppression ( 502 ). Circulating ghrelin levels also fall following ingestion of glucose ( 503 ). The GH response to ghrelin and GHRH infusions is blunted by oral glucose, an effect that is probably mediated by somatostatin ( 504 ). The later
