Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


glucose ( 503 ). The GH response to ghrelin and GHRH infusions is blunted by oral glucose, an effect that is probably mediated by somatostatin ( 504 ). The later rise in GH levels is postulated to be due to a decline in somatostatinergic tone plus a reciprocal increase in GHRH, leading to a ‘rebound’ rise ( 397 ). Figure 10. GH response to 75g oral glucose in 8 non-acromegalic, non-diabetic women, given at time 0. Error bars denote SD. Note the high variability of the baseline GH level due to the pulsatile nature of GH secretion. GH levels fall to <0.4 µg/L at 120 minutes. In type I diabetes mellitus, GH dynamics are disordered, with elevated 24 hour release of GH ( 505 ). Deconvolution analysis shows that GH pulse frequencies and maximal amplitudes are increased. The latter is accounted for by higher ‘valley’ levels ( 506 ). Better glycemic control appears to normalize these disordered dynamics ( 507 ). The pathophysiological mechanism appears to involve reduced somatostatinergic tone ( 397 ). There is conflicting evidence for increased, decreased, or normal GH dynamics in type II diabetics. It is likely that this reflects two factors acting in opposite directions: ( 1 ) the confounding factor of obesity in these patients, which leads to hyposecretion of GH; and ( 2 ) the hyperglycemia, which leads to hypersecretion ( 397 ). Dietary Restriction and Fasting Dietary restriction and fasting lead to a significant increase in pituitary secretion of GH ( 508 ). A 5-day fast in normal healthy men resulted in a significant increase in the pulse frequency as well as pulse amplitude of GH release. This was coupled with a decrease in expression and secretion of IGF-1, which could explain the lack of feedback inhibitory effect on pituitary GH secretion in the fasting state. Obesity and Malnutrition Chronic malnutrition states such as marasmus and kwashiorkor cause a rise in GH levels ( 509 ). On the other hand, obesity is known to be associated with lower GH levels, partially due to decreased levels of GH binding protein and partially due to decreased frequency of GH pulses ( 510 ). Visceral adiposity, as assessed by CT scanning and dual energy X-ray absorptiometry, seems to be especially important, and correlates negatively with mean 24 hour GH concentrations ( 511 ). The mechanism of decreased GH release in obesity has been ascribed to
