Normal Physiology of ACTH and GH Release in the Hypothalamus and Anterior Pituitary in Man
KEYWORDS: pubmed, secretion, acth, release, pituitary, hormone, expression, ghrelin, crh, response, gene, cortisol, receptor, free, levels


absorptiometry, seems to be especially important, and correlates negatively with mean 24 hour GH concentrations ( 511 ). The mechanism of decreased GH release in obesity has been ascribed to increased somatostatinergic tone, as pyridostigmine is able to reverse this, to some extent, by suppressing somatostatin release ( 512-514 ). However, this cannot be the full explanation, as pyridostigmine is not able to fully reverse the hyposomatotropinism of obesity, even when combined with GHRH and the GH secretagogue GHRP-6 ( 515 ). The fasting induced elevation in secretion of GH is blunted in obesity ( 516 , 517 ). Nevertheless, fasting in obese volunteers still induces an appreciable increase in GH secretion, with accompanying increase in lipolysis and insulin resistance. Co-administration of pegvisomant (a GH receptor antagonist) abrogated this phenomenon, suggesting that the elevation in GH during fasting is responsible for the insulin resistance induced by fasting ( 518 ). Although leptin has been shown to be influential on GH secretion in rats ( 519 ), this may not be so in humans. Leptin-deficient subjects have been compared with obese non-deficient control subjects in their GH responses when stimulated with GHRH plus GHRP-6. Both these groups have decreased GH peaks compared to non-obese control subjects, as expected. There was no significant difference in mean GH peaks between leptin-deficient and leptin-replete controls, suggesting that leptin does not play a significant role in the GH suppression seen in obese humans, and that the decreased GH secretion of obesity is mediated via other mechanisms ( 383 ). Another candidate for the mechanism linking obesity to GH secretion is ghrelin. Its levels correlate negatively with body fat content ( 520 ). A comparative study between 5 lean and 5 obese men employed rapid sampling and pulse analysis of ghrelin levels over 24 hours. Ghrelin levels increased at night in the lean controls but did not in the obese group ( 481 ). Weight loss caused circulating ghrelin levels to rise in two studies ( 521 , 522 ). Contradicting this, however, Lindeman and colleagues found that ghrelin levels paradoxically correlated positively with visceral fat area, in contrast with 24-hour GH secretion, which correlated negatively. Moreover, in their study, weight loss increased GH secretion but did not affect ghrelin levels ( 523 ). More recently, a study comparing subjects with central obesity only with subjects suffering from the metabolic syndrome showed changes in ghrelin levels
