FEMS Microbiology Reviews , 2025, 49 , fuaf057
KEYWORDS: resistance, daptomycin, gene, enterococci, faecium, antibiotic, membrane, vancomycin, genes, faecalis, antibiotics, mutations, strains, cell, enterococcus


DOI: Advance access publication date: 8 November 2025 Review Article Resistance to last-resort antibiotics in enterococci Zhaoxiang Lu, Ross S. Mclnnes, Freya Allen, Kavita Gadar, Willem van Schaik * Editor: Ehud Banin Abstract The genus Enterococcus comprises a diverse group of species, many of which are commensal members of the gut microbiota of hu- mans and animals. The two most prominent species associated with humans, Enterococcus faecalis and Enterococcus faecium , have also emerged as prominent opportunistic pathogens causing a range of infections in hospitalized patients, including urinary tract infections, bloodstream infections, and endocarditis. The rise of antibiotic resistance in enterococci undermines the efficacy of the mosomal mutations and the horizontal gene transfer of antibiotic resistance genes. This review offers a comprehensive examination of the mechanisms of antibiotic resistance among enterococci, with an emphasis on resistance to last-line antibiotics, including to glycopeptide antibiotics like vancomycin and teicoplanin, oxazolidinones (primarily linezolid), and daptomycin. Furthermore, we eval- uate relevant candidates in the current development pipeline for antibiotics and discuss alternative strategies (phage therapy and immunotherapeutics) for the treatment and prevention of infections with multidrug-resistant enterococci. As enterococci rapidly adapt to novel conditions, including by developing resistance to new drugs and therapies, sustained research efforts are required to ensure the continuous development of treatment options for these important opportunistic pathogens. Keywords: enterococcus; antibiotic resistance; antimicrobial resistance; therapeutic strategies; mechanisms of antibiotic resistance Introduction transferable multidrug resistance in healthcare settings (Eshaghi Enterococci are common commensals of the gastrointestinal tract et al. 2015 , Pinkes et al. 2019 , Miller et al. 2020 , Yoshino 2023 , Mul- of humans and animals. More than 60 species have been described lally et al. 2024 ). in the genus Enterococcus , and a subset of those have been rec- The formidable survival capabilities of enterococci enable ognized as important opportunistic pathogens, causing a range them to persist in modern healthcare environments, which al- ized patients (Lebreton et al. 2017 , Fiore et al. 2019 , Cattoir 2022 , including E. faecalis and E. faecium , were responsible for ∼439 000 Schwartzman et al. 2024 ). These Gram-positive facultative anaer- deaths worldwide, highlighting their significant impact as a ma- centrations and a wide range of temperatures (Arias and Murray tance Collaborators 2022 ). Enterococci exhibit intrinsic resistance 2012 ). The two species that most commonly cause infections in to beta-lactams, lincosamides, and aminoglycosides, and they can humans are
