FEMS Microbiology Reviews , 2025, 49 , fuaf057
KEYWORDS: resistance, daptomycin, gene, enterococci, faecium, antibiotic, membrane, vancomycin, genes, faecalis, antibiotics, mutations, strains, cell, enterococcus


Murray tance Collaborators 2022 ). Enterococci exhibit intrinsic resistance 2012 ). The two species that most commonly cause infections in to beta-lactams, lincosamides, and aminoglycosides, and they can humans are Enterococcus faecium and Enterococcus faecalis . While readily acquire resistance to almost all antimicrobials used clin- both species can have the capacity to evolve resistance to antibi- ically, primarily through the acquisition of MGEs such as plas- otics through mutation and horizontal gene transfer, resistance mids, transposons, and integrative elements into their genomes, to antibiotics appears to be spreading more rapidly in E. faecium but also via the mutation of antibiotic targets (Hourigan et al. than in E. faecalis (Zhou et al. 2020 , Cattoir 2022 ). Beyond these two 2024 ). Among Gram-positive bacteria, resistance to the glycopep- species, other species in the genus Enterococcus are increasingly tide antibiotics is a major concern, as these drugs are commonly recognized as opportunistic human pathogens (Mullally et al. used to treat infections with multidrug-resistant strains (Levine 2024 ). Most prominently, these are E. gallinarum and E. casseliflavus , 2006 ). Enterococci were the first Gram-positive pathogen to ac- which exhibit low-level, intrinsic resistance to the antibiotic van- quire high-level resistance to the glycopeptide vancomycin, with comycin (Yoshino 2023 , Hyderi et al. 2025 ). In addition, sporadic the first vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE) being isolated E. hirae , E. durans , E. avium , and E. raffinosus have been reported has since disseminated globally as a major nosocomial pathogen from bloodstream, urinary, and endocarditis infections. Infections (Levine 2006 ). Following the emergence of VRE, new antibiotics, caused with non- faecium , non- faecalis enterococci are frequently most prominently linezolid, and daptomycin, have been devel- polymicrobial, with associations with Gram-negative bacilli being oped for the treatment of infections with VRE strains. However, particularly common. Although these species are less prevalent, enterococcal strains with acquired resistance to these novel an- they can acquire high-level antibiotic resistance via mobile ge- tibiotics have been reported (Bender et al. 2018 ). In this review, we netic elements (MGEs), suggesting they can serve as reservoirs of describe the mechanisms that enterococci can acquire to gain re- Received30May2025;revised22October2025;accepted5November2025 ©TheAuthor(s)2025.PublishedbyOxfordUniversityPressonbehalfofFEMS.ThisisanOpenAccessarticledistributedunderthetermsoftheCreative CommonsAttributionLicense( medium,providedtheoriginalworkisproperlycited. 2 | FEMSMicrobiologyReviews,2025,Vol.49 sistance against last-line antibiotics. These diverse strategies are pocket, thereby lowering the activity of aminoglycosides (Costa summarized in Fig. 1 , which provides an overview of the major et al. 1993 , Galimand et al.
