FEMS Microbiology Reviews , 2025, 49 , fuaf057
KEYWORDS: resistance, daptomycin, gene, enterococci, faecium, antibiotic, membrane, vancomycin, genes, faecalis, antibiotics, mutations, strains, cell, enterococcus


et al. 2024 ). The low-affinity PBPs significantly reduce cluding aac(6’)-Ie-aph(2")-Ia , are carried by MGEs, allowing their the bactericidal efficacy of β-lactams, making the treatment of spread among enterococci and other bacterial species (Sparo et al. enterococcal infections with these antibiotics less effective. In ad- 2018 ). dition, these PBPs can evolve further to acquire additional muta- As well as the resistance genes discussed above, enterococci tions that lead to high-level β-lactam resistance. In addition, loss- have also acquired resistance to other classes of antibiotics, of-function mutations in repressors of pbp expression can lead to including tetracyclines and macrolides. These resistances are overproduction of low-affinity PBPs (Singh et al. 2024 , Ugalde Silva largely attributed to the horizontal transfer of resistance genes, et al. 2024 ). particularly tetL and tetM , which confer resistance to tetracyclines, While the production of β-lactamases is the predominant β- and ermB , which confers resistance to macrolides (Portillo et al. lactam resistance mechanism in Gram-negative bacteria (Bush 2000 , Connell et al. 2003 , Nishimoto et al. 2005 , Wilcks et al. 2005 ). 2010 ), this mechanism seems to be of limited importance in ente- In addition, E. faecium carries the chromosomal msrC gene, which rococci. While E. faecium isolates that have acquired the staphylo- contributes to intrinsic macrolide resistance. Enterococcus faecalis coccal blaZ gene, have been described (Zscheck and Murray 1993 ), lacks msrC and relies on acquired macrolide resistance determi- these strains appear to be rare and there is no evidence that the nants such as erm(B) or mef(A/E) (Singh et al. 2001 , Werner et al. presence of blaZ leads to phenotypic β-lactam resistance in E. fae- 2001 , Holman et al. 2021 ). cium (Coll et al. 2024 ). resist β-lactams via an l ,d -transpeptidation pathway catalysed by enterococci the l ,d -transpeptidase (LDT) Ldt_fm, which serves as a bypass of The diverse mechanisms of resistance to broad-spectrum antibi- otics outlined above significantly complicate the treatment of en- this route, but carbapenems can inactivate Ldt_fm (Mainardi et terococcal infections. For this reason, the use of the glycopeptide al. 2007 , Dubee et al. 2012 , Lecoq et al. 2013 ). However, because antibiotic vancomycin became more widespread in the 1970s and mutated alleles of pbp5 , conferring resistance to β-lactams, are 1980s for the treatment of infections with multidrug-resistant en- almost ubiquitous among clinical E. faecium strains
