FEMS Microbiology Reviews , 2025, 49 , fuaf057
KEYWORDS: resistance, daptomycin, gene, enterococci, faecium, antibiotic, membrane, vancomycin, genes, faecalis, antibiotics, mutations, strains, cell, enterococcus


in the 1970s and mutated alleles of pbp5 , conferring resistance to β-lactams, are 1980s for the treatment of infections with multidrug-resistant en- almost ubiquitous among clinical E. faecium strains (Galloway- Pena et al. 2012 ), the inhibition of the l ,d -transpeptidation path- tion with the use of the glycopeptide antibiotic avoparcin as a way by carbapenems is clinically irrelevant. In E. faecalis , this LDT- growth promoter in livestock production (Bager et al. 1997 ), acted mediated bypass does not contribute to β-lactam resistance, with as a strong selective pressure for the selection of resistance (Arias β-lactam resistance typically involving the overexpression and/or and Murray 2012 ). Vancomycin resistant isolates were first iden- mutation of pbp4 (Rice et al. 2018 , Lazzaro et al. 2021 ). Compared tified in the mid-1980s and have since spread globally. to E. faecium and E. faecalis , resistance to β-lactams appears to be rare in other enterococci (Mullally et al. 2024 ). Aminoglycoside antibiotics target the A site of the 16S rRNA Vancomycin and other glycopeptides fragment in the bacterial 30S ribosomal subunit, interfering with Vancomycin resistance in enterococci is mediated through the translation initiation, inhibiting peptide chain elongation, and dis- acquisition of one of several gene clusters that encode enzy- rupting protein synthesis (Wilson 2014 ). These bactericidal agents matic pathways, leading to the replacement of the final residue of are most effective during exponential growth (Rosenberg et al. the peptidoglycan peptide stems. These gene clusters are named 2020 ). Representative aminoglycoside drugs include gentamicin, vanA , vanB , vanC , and so on, up to vanP. These different gene clus- streptomycin, and tobramycin. Enterococcus faecium demonstrates ters are named based on differences in their enzymatic compo- intrinsic resistance to aminoglycosides, largely due to the chro- nents (Arthur and Courvalin 1993 , Xavier et al. 2021 ). The acqui- mosomal efmM gene, which encodes a 16S-rRNA methyltrans- sition of vanA and vanB gene clusters is the most common cause ferase that targets C1404, a key nucleotide in the drug-binding of vancomycin resistance in E. faecium and E. faecalis , while in the Luetal. | 3 Figure 1. Overview of antibiotic resistance mechanisms in enterococci. Enterococci resist antibiotics through intrinsic resistance mechanisms, or after acquiring resistance, either through mutations or via horizontal gene transfer. Specifically, resistance to ampicillin in enterococci is achieved via mutations in penicillin-binding proteins that exhibit low β-lactam affinity,
