FEMS Microbiology Reviews , 2025, 49 , fuaf057
KEYWORDS: resistance, daptomycin, gene, enterococci, faecium, antibiotic, membrane, vancomycin, genes, faecalis, antibiotics, mutations, strains, cell, enterococcus


or after acquiring resistance, either through mutations or via horizontal gene transfer. Specifically, resistance to ampicillin in enterococci is achieved via mutations in penicillin-binding proteins that exhibit low β-lactam affinity, while intrinsic resistance is provided through the presence of alternative peptidoglycan cross-linking pathways; low-level resistance to aminoglycosides is due to barriers to the uptake of these molecules, and in the case of E. faecium , the chromosomal presence of a gene encoding a 6(cid:5) - N -aminoglycoside acetyltransferase, while high-level resistance is caused by acquisition of additional enzymes that modify aminoglycosides or ribosomal mutations. Resistance to vancomycin involves changes in the peptidoglycan synthesis pathway, manifesting as reduced drug-binding affinity. Daptomycin nonsusceptibility commonly involves mutations in envelope-stress and phospholipid-metabolism pathways (e.g. LiaFSR, WalKR/YycFG, GdpD, and Cls). In addition, LiaFSR and WalKR converge on the dltABCD (Dlt) pathway that mediates teichoic-acid d -alanylation, increasing surface positive charge and thereby altering interactions with lipopeptides (daptomycin) and, in some contexts, glycopeptides. Linezolid resistance emerges through the acquisition of resistance genes that protect the 23S rRNA gene from the action of the antibiotic, or through mutations that affect the linezolid-binding site in the ribosome. Figure created using BioRender.com ( ) species E. casseliflavus and E. gallinarum , vancomycin resistance is though vancomycin and teicoplanin both target d -Ala- d -Ala ter- intrinsic due to the presence of a vanC -type gene cluster. Occa- mini, teicoplanin does not activate the VanB two-component sys- sionally, these motile species have acquired vanA via Tn 1546 -type tem (VanSB/VanRB) encoded within the vanB cluster; as a result, elements borne on conjugative plasmids, resulting in high-level the vanB operon is not induced and VanB-type strains generally glycopeptide resistance. More rarely, vanB has been reported in remain susceptible to teicoplanin. By contrast, teicoplanin effi- E. gallinarum in association with Tn 1549 -like integrative and con- ciently activates the VanA (VanSA/VanRA) system, inducing ex- jugative elements (Dutka-Malen et al. 1994 , Eshaghi et al. 2015 ). pression of the vanA operon and the production of d -Ala- d -Lac Other gene clusters are less widespread, although the vanM clus- termini that confer cross-resistance to both vancomycin and te- ter is reported to be relatively common in China, but not else- icoplanin (Hill et al. 2010 , Yushchuk et al. 2020 ). This distinc- where (Yan et al. 2023 ). tion underscores the potential clinical utility of teicoplanin in in- The vanA ,
