FEMS Microbiology Reviews , 2025, 49 , fuaf057
KEYWORDS: resistance, daptomycin, gene, enterococci, faecium, antibiotic, membrane, vancomycin, genes, faecalis, antibiotics, mutations, strains, cell, enterococcus


et al. 2010 , Yushchuk et al. 2020 ). This distinc- where (Yan et al. 2023 ). tion underscores the potential clinical utility of teicoplanin in in- The vanA , vanB , vanD , and vanM gene clusters convert the ter- fections caused by vanB -positive enterococci, where vancomycin minal d -Ala residue in the peptidoglycan peptide stems to d - therapy would be ineffective. Lac, resulting in d -Ala- d -Lac. The affinity of vancomycin for d - The dissemination of vancomycin resistance genes in ente- Ala- d -Lac is only one-thousandth of that for d -Ala- d -Ala, hence rococci is primarily driven by various MGEs, including trans- strains with these gene clusters generally exhibit high-level re- posons, plasmids, integrative conjugative elements, and IS ele- sistance to vancomycin. VanP resistance has not been biochem- ments (Paulsen et al. 2003 , Wei et al. 2024 ). Recent studies show ically characterized but likely also involves the replacement of vanA /Tn 1546 often resides on Inc18-type plasmids yet can also d -Ala with d -Lac (Xavier et al. 2021 ). On the other hand, vanC , be carried by pRUM-like (RepA_N) and linear plasmids, highlight- vanE , vanG , vanL , and vanN gene clusters convert the d -Ala residue ing the diversity of plasmids that can contribute to the spread to d -Ser, resulting in d -Ala- d -Ser, which reduces the affinity of of vanA in enterococci (Fujiya et al. 2021 , Bakthavatchalam et al. vancomycin by seven-fold, leading to relatively low-level resis- 2022 , Wardal et al. 2022 , Islam et al. 2023 ). Notably, plasmids play tance to vancomycin (Levine 2006 ). This alteration in the bac- a crucial role in the spread of vancomycin resistance, enabling terial cell wall structure is critical to vancomycin’s reduced ef- gene transfer across different bacterial species. For instance, ficacy (Fig. 2 ). Notably, resistance conferred by vanB does not pIP816 and high-copy-number multidrug-resistant plasmids not typically extend to teicoplanin, another glycopeptide antibiotic, only carry the vanA gene cluster but may also harbor other re- which is structurally similar to vancomycin. Mechanistically, al- sistance determinants, promoting the emergence of multidrug- 4 | FEMSMicrobiologyReviews,2025,Vol.49 Figure 2. The impact of vancomycin on peptidoglycan biosynthesis. Glycopeptide antibiotics target the terminal ends of the peptidoglycan precursor, d -alanyl- d -alanine ( d -Ala- d -Ala), thereby hindering the cross-linking of the peptidoglycan layers and
