FEMS Microbiology Reviews , 2025, 49 , fuaf057
KEYWORDS: resistance, daptomycin, gene, enterococci, faecium, antibiotic, membrane, vancomycin, genes, faecalis, antibiotics, mutations, strains, cell, enterococcus


triggers phosphorylation of VanRB leading to faecium genomes, in which it undergoes frequent excision and in- induction of resistance gene expression, dalbavancin is thought sertion events, also contributes to genomic plasticity (Bayjanov et to be poorly recognized by VanS. As a result, VanRB is not acti- al. 2019 ). Recently, the IS L3 family has been associated with the vated and the vanB operon remains silent, rendering the bacteria rapid evolution and niche adaptation of E. faecium in healthcare phenotypically susceptible to dalbavancin (Hesketh et al. 2021 ). of E. faecium thus enables it rapid adaptation to antibiotic selec- documented reduced dalbavancin susceptibility emerging under zontal gene transfer plays a pivotal role (Brodrick et al. 2016 , Li et lococcus epidermidis and Staphylococcus aureus , reduced dalbavancin al. 2022a , Tedim et al. 2024 ). The fundamental mechanisms that susceptibility has been associated with mutations in the genes en- can explain the lower prevalence of vancomycin resistance in E. coding the WalKR two-component regulatory system, which is a faecalis are poorly explored but may be due to the relatively high key regulator of cell-wall homeostasis (Al Janabi et al. 2023 ). In en- fitness costs of the MGEs carrying vancomycin resistance genes in terococci, the WalKR (also termed YycFG/VicRK) two-component this species (Tedim et al. 2021 ). system (TCS) is highly conserved and is regarded as the only es- In recent years, a subset of phenotypically vancomycin- sential TCS, acting as a central coordinator of cell-envelope home- susceptible E. faecium strains has been identified which carry vanA ostasis. In E. faecalis , inhibition of transcription and translation of or vanB gene clusters, a phenotype known as vancomycin-variable walR via an endogenous antisense RNA reduces biofilm forma- E. faecium (VVE) (Hawkins et al. 2024 , McInnes et al. 2024 ). Mech- tion and attenuates virulence in vivo , and experimental evolution anistically, this variability often results from disruptions in the under β-lactam pressure repeatedly selects mutations in walKR , regulatory elements of the van operon—such as insertions of IS consistent with a role in envelope-stress adaptation (Takada and elements in the vanR gene or its promoter—which impair the in- Yoshikawa 2018 , Wu et al. 2021 , Zhang et al. 2023 ). By analogy to ducible expression of vancomycin resistance genes (McInnes et al. other species in the phylum Bacillota, specifically S. aureus and revert to a high-level resistant phenotype under
