FEMS Microbiology Reviews , 2025, 49 , fuaf057
KEYWORDS: resistance, daptomycin, gene, enterococci, faecium, antibiotic, membrane, vancomycin, genes, faecalis, antibiotics, mutations, strains, cell, enterococcus


). By analogy to ducible expression of vancomycin resistance genes (McInnes et al. other species in the phylum Bacillota, specifically S. aureus and revert to a high-level resistant phenotype under vancomycin ex- tidoglycan hydrolases, but a direct mechanistic demonstration posure (Thaker et al. 2015 ). VVE also pose a diagnostic challenge of this regulatory role of WalKR in enterococci is currently lack- and highlight the importance of genomic surveillance to detect ing. Thus, there is currently limited evidence for a causal rela- silent resistance determinants that may evade routine suscepti- tionship between mutations in walKR and susceptibility to dalba- bility testing (McInnes et al. 2024 ). vancin and other glycopeptides (Ugalde Silva et al. 2024 ). However, Beyond differences among E. faecium and E. faecalis in their as these findings suggest that WalKR may modulate glycopeptide ability to acquire and stably maintain MGEs, factors such susceptibility in enterococci, and WalKR has been proposed as a as niche specialization, cell envelope structure, and interac- target for antibiotic development for Gram-postive bacteria (Hi- tions within the gut microbiome may also contribute to the rakawa et al. 2020 ), further studies into this two-component sys- differential persistence of resistance genes between E. fae- tem in enterococci are warranted. cium and E. faecalis (Brodrick et al. 2016 , Boumasmoud et al. In contrast to dalbavancin, oritavancin shows a broader spec- 2022 ). Further research is needed to fully elucidate the rel- trum of activity against VRE. Like dalbavancin, oritavancin dimer- ative contributions of these factors and their impact on the izes to enhance its binding affinity to the peptidoglycan of Gram- epidemiology of VRE. positive bacteria. However, oritavancin possesses additional hy- drophobic modifications, including a 4(cid:5) -chlorobiphenylmethyl group, which further strengthens its membrane anchoring and al- Novel glycopeptide antibiotics lows it to disrupt bacterial membrane integrity, contributing to its In addition to vancomycin and teicoplanin, derivatives of gly- broader activity against VRE, including strains carrying vanA and dalbavancin, oritavancin, and telavancin (Fig. 3 ). These are lipo- rupts peptidoglycan synthesis via inhibition of transglycosylation glycopeptide antibiotics, which are characterized by the addition and transpeptidation steps but also effectively binds to d -Ala- d - of lipophilic side chains that enhance membrane anchoring and Lac, thus retaining activity against VRE (Zhanel et al. 2012 , Yim longed half-life (Billeter et al. 2008 , Zhanel et al. 2010 , Rosen- ing evidence for oritavancin’s efficacy against
