FEMS Microbiology Reviews , 2025, 49 , fuaf057
KEYWORDS: resistance, daptomycin, gene, enterococci, faecium, antibiotic, membrane, vancomycin, genes, faecalis, antibiotics, mutations, strains, cell, enterococcus


thus retaining activity against VRE (Zhanel et al. 2012 , Yim longed half-life (Billeter et al. 2008 , Zhanel et al. 2010 , Rosen- ing evidence for oritavancin’s efficacy against enterococcal infec- thal et al. 2018 ). These novel antibiotics have been approved by tions, including those caused by VRE. A retrospective multicenter the US Food and Drug Administration for acute bacterial skin study demonstrated the successful use of oritavancin in treating and skin structure infections (Crotty et al. 2016 , Shortridge and bloodstream infections, endocarditis, and osteomyelitis caused by Flamm 2019 ). Dalbavancin exhibits distinct structural and phar- Gram-positive pathogens, including VRE (Texidor et al. 2024 ). Fur- macokinetic advantages over traditional glycopeptides. The long thermore, surveillance data from European medical centres and hydrophobic alkyl side chain of dalbavancin reinforces membrane US bloodstream infection cohorts have confirmed potent in vitro interactions and promotes dimerization, markedly increasing its activity against enterococci, including strains displaying vanA - bactericidal potency (Billeter et al. 2008 ). This structural modifi- mediated resistance (Carvalhaes et al. 2022 , Pfaller et al. 2023 ). Its cation extends the half-life of dalbavancin to ∼149–250 h in hu- lipophilic side chain further enables anchoring to the cell mem- mans, enabling once-weekly dosing and providing a convenient brane, thereby enhancing its efficacy against VRE, maintaining a alternative to vancomycin (Billeter et al. 2008 ). Dalbavancin is not minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC90 ) as low as 0.06 μg/ml, active against VRE with the vanA gene cluster, but is effective even in the presence of the vanA gene cluster (Mendes et al. against VRE strains carrying the vanB gene cluster. This discrep- 2012 ). These properties position oritavancin as a promising agent 6 | FEMSMicrobiologyReviews,2025,Vol.49 Figure 3. Structural comparison of glycopeptide antibiotics. Vancomycin and teicoplanin are first-generation glycopeptides with a conserved heptapeptide core, but teicoplanin features longer lipophilic side chains that enhance membrane interactions. Telavancin is distinguished by a decylaminoethyl side chain and a phosphonomethyl group, which contribute to membrane depolarization and ion leakage. Dalbavancin, derived from the teicoplanin-like compound A40926, carries an extended C11 alkyl side chain, improving pharmacokinetics and membrane affinity. Oritavancin contains a 4(cid:5) -chlorobiphenylmethyl group, reinforcing membrane anchoring and enabling bacterial membrane disruption. These structural variations influence their antibacterial mechanisms and resistance profiles. Figure created with BioRender.com ( ). evaluation to define its full therapeutic potential in enterococcal age, and, ultimately, cell death (Zhanel et al. 2010
