FEMS Microbiology Reviews , 2025, 49 , fuaf057
KEYWORDS: resistance, daptomycin, gene, enterococci, faecium, antibiotic, membrane, vancomycin, genes, faecalis, antibiotics, mutations, strains, cell, enterococcus


their antibacterial mechanisms and resistance profiles. Figure created with BioRender.com ( ). evaluation to define its full therapeutic potential in enterococcal age, and, ultimately, cell death (Zhanel et al. 2010 ). In addition disease. to dalbavancin, oritavancin, and telavancin, next-generation van- Telavancin further extends the repertoire of lipoglycopeptides. comycin derivatives such as shapeshifting bullvalene-linked van- Like oritavancin and dalbavancin, telavancin binds to peptidogly- comycin dimers (SVDs) have been developed to address the chal- can precursors to inhibit bacterial cell wall synthesis. However, lenge of antibiotic resistance. Unlike lipoglycopeptides, which in- it exhibits a distinct dual mechanism of action that enhances corporate lipophilic side chains for membrane anchoring, SVDs its bactericidal activity. In addition to blocking transglycosyla- utilize dynamic bullvalene scaffolds to enhance dimerization and tion and transpeptidation steps by targeting lipid II, telavancin adaptability, thereby improving their efficacy against vanA -type also disrupts bacterial membrane integrity. This is facilitated by VRE (Ottonello et al. 2023 ). Other novel glycopeptides synthesized its hydrophobic decylaminoethyl side chain, which interacts with through chemical modifications are also under investigation for Luetal. | 7 their potential to overcome limitations in treating resistant strains imals, whereas its occurrence in human isolates appears to be (Belay et al. 2024 ). less frequent (Huang et al. 2022 ). The optrA gene encodes an ATP- binding cassette (ABC)-F protein, which facilitates resistance by protecting the antibiotic target site from drug binding (Sharkey Oxazolidinone antibiotics and resistance and O’Neill 2018 ). The widespread distribution of optrA and its as- The oxazolidinone antibiotics linezolid and tedizolid were ap- sociation with the use of antibiotics in livestock has raised con- proved by the US Food and Drug Administration in 2000 and 2014, cerns about the potential for ongoing transmission of this resis- respectively, and are designed to combat infections caused by tance gene among animal-associated and environmental bacteria multidrug-resistant Gram-positive bacteria. These antibiotics dis- (Tang et al. 2023 ). rupt the protein synthesis process by targeting the 50S subunit A third linezolid resistance gene, termed poxtA , was initially de- of the bacterial ribosome, inhibiting the formation of the initia- scribed in methicillin-resistant S. aureus and its gene product was tion complex, similar to the mechanism of amphenicols and lin- found to be an ABC-F protein, like OptrA. Amino acid identity be- cosamides (Hashemian et al. 2018 , Tsai et al. 2022 ). tween PoxtA and OptrA is only 32%, strongly indicating
