FEMS Microbiology Reviews , 2025, 49 , fuaf057
KEYWORDS: resistance, daptomycin, gene, enterococci, faecium, antibiotic, membrane, vancomycin, genes, faecalis, antibiotics, mutations, strains, cell, enterococcus


be an ABC-F protein, like OptrA. Amino acid identity be- cosamides (Hashemian et al. 2018 , Tsai et al. 2022 ). tween PoxtA and OptrA is only 32%, strongly indicating that these Resistance to linezolid is conferred by both chromosomal mu- genes have evolved independently (Antonelli et al. 2018 ). Analy- tations and the acquisition of transferable resistance genes. Mu- sis of culture collections of clinical Enterococcus strains in different tations within domain V of the 23S rRNA gene, specifically the European countries found that poxtA and optrA are more common G2576U mutation, significantly reduce the binding affinity of line- than the cfr genes among linezolid-resistant Enterococcus strains. zolid, leading to resistance (Marshall et al. 2002 ). Other muta- Notably, the optrA gene seems to be more common in E. faecalis tions typically involve amino acid substitutions, deletions, or in- than in E. faecium , while the poxtA gene is more prevalent in E. fae- sertions that alter the drug-binding site in the ribosome, reduc- cium than in E. faecalis (Egan et al. 2020 , Moure et al. 2020 , Dejoies ing linezolid affinity and conferring resistance (Long and Vester et al. 2021 ). 2012 ). Beyond these chromosomal mutations, Enterococcus has also The dissemination of oxazolidinone resistance genes in Entero- acquired transferable oxazolidinone resistance genes, ( cfr , optrA , coccus is strongly facilitated by their association with MGEs. The and poxtA ), which significantly contribute to linezolid resistance poxtA gene is often flanked by copies of the IS 1216E , which facil- (Schwarz et al. 2021 ). itates its mobilization and stable integration (Shan et al. 2020 ). The cfr gene, initially identified in Staphylococcus spp . from ani- Moreover, plasmids with poxtA frequently coharbor additional re- lights the zoonotic aspect of antibiotic resistance (Tang et al. tetracycline resistance genes tetM and tetL , suggesting that selec- 2023 ). The cfr gene family includes multiple homologs, such as tive pressures may drive their coselection and persistence (Freitas cfr(B) , cfr(C) , cfr(D) , and cfr(E) , which share functional similari- et al. 2020 , Wardal et al. 2023 ). Notably, experimental evidence has ties but differ in their sequence and distribution across bacte- demonstrated that some poxtA -carrying plasmids possess con- rial species (Locke et al. 2009 ). Collectively, these genes encode jugative transfer capabilities, enabling horizontal gene transfer an RNA methyltransferase that targets adenine 2503 in the
