FEMS Microbiology Reviews , 2025, 49 , fuaf057
KEYWORDS: resistance, daptomycin, gene, enterococci, faecium, antibiotic, membrane, vancomycin, genes, faecalis, antibiotics, mutations, strains, cell, enterococcus


plasmids possess con- rial species (Locke et al. 2009 ). Collectively, these genes encode jugative transfer capabilities, enabling horizontal gene transfer an RNA methyltransferase that targets adenine 2503 in the 23S among enterococci, further accelerating the spread of resistance rRNA, leading to resistance against multiple antibiotic classes. (Dejoies et al. 2021 , Lei et al. 2021 , Shan et al. 2022 ). Several studies The methylation of the A2503 residue impedes the effective bind- in China have shown that cfr , optrA , and poxtA are widespread in and streptogramin A, culminating in the PhLOPSA multidrug resis- being the most important host of these resistance genes (Shen et tance phenotype (Long et al. 2006 ). In Staphylococcus and Enterococ- al. 2024 ). The high prevalence in China of these resistance genes cus , cfr has been identified on diverse plasmids, transposons, and among enterococci, particularly in strains isolated in livestock, integrative conjugative elements, though the specific elements suggest that antibiotic use in agriculture poses a strong selective involved vary between genera. In Staphylococcus , cfr is frequently pressure for the emergence and spread of optrA and poxtA. The found on plasmids such as p12-00322, pSCFS3, and pSCFS7, of- emergence and spread of plasmid-mediated oxazolidinone resis- interspecies transfer (Bender et al. 2015 , Nguyen et al. 2018 ). In ation of these genes with enterococci from animal and environ- Enterococcus , the gene is also predominantly associated with plas- mental reservoirs strongly suggest a link to antibiotic use in agri- mids rather than with chromosomal elements, with variations ob- culture. Notably, oxazolidinones are not used in livestock, but cfr , served between E. faecium and E. faecalis . While the pE35048-oc optrA , and poxtA also provide resistance to phenicol antibiotics, plasmid has been reported in E. faecium , E. faecalis tends to harbor and this class of antibiotics is widely administered in agricul- cfr on different plasmid backbones, some of which are also linked ture and is regarded of limited importance for human medicine to additional resistance determinants, including optrA and poxtA (Timmermans et al. 2021 ). The troubling emergence and spread (Morroni et al. 2018 , Shen et al. 2023 ). of MGEs carrying oxazolidinone resistance genes may only be ad- Studies on Enterococcus isolates exhibiting linezolid resistance dressed through cross-sectoral initiatives to curb antibiotic use highlighted the role of a second resistance determinant, OptrA, and an increased awareness
