FEMS Microbiology Reviews , 2025, 49 , fuaf057
KEYWORDS: resistance, daptomycin, gene, enterococci, faecium, antibiotic, membrane, vancomycin, genes, faecalis, antibiotics, mutations, strains, cell, enterococcus


be ad- Studies on Enterococcus isolates exhibiting linezolid resistance dressed through cross-sectoral initiatives to curb antibiotic use highlighted the role of a second resistance determinant, OptrA, and an increased awareness of the risks posed by antibiotic resis- which influences resistance to both linezolid and tedizolid (Wang tance genes that provide resistance to multiple classes of antibi- ther studies reported the presence of optrA in E. faecium , E. avium , 2024 ). E. hirae , and E. gallinarum (Nuesch-Inderbinen et al. 2022 , Coccitto et al. 2023 , Mullally et al. 2024 ). The optrA gene appears to be particularly promiscuous and has been reported in, other Gram- Daptomycin porcinus (Wang et al. 2015 , Yao et al. 2020 , Xuan et al. 2023 ). Re- mycin is a cyclic lipopeptide antibiotic that has become a vital cent surveillance efforts in China indicate that optrA is predomi- treatment option for difficult-to-treat infections caused by Gram- nantly detected in Enterococcus isolates from food-producing an- positive pathogens. Unlike most membrane-targeting antibiotics 8 | FEMSMicrobiologyReviews,2025,Vol.49 that have historically been limited to topical applications, dapto- and biosynthetic genes, notably those encoding the LiaFSR three- mycin can be administered systemically. This characteristic offers component stress response system (Arias et al. 2011 ). Notably, to induce resistance more slowly compared to traditional antibi- lates, underscoring a convergent evolution of resistance mecha- otics targeting individual protein targets (Gray and Wenzel 2020 ). nisms in vitro and in vivo (Kristich et al. 2014 ). Cumulative evidence Daptomycin has a unique mechanism as it binds to Ca2 + ions in suggests an ordered, two-step progression: an initial mutation in a 1:1 molar ratio and these complexes insert into the cytoplasmic the LiaFSR regulator (such as a truncation in liaF or a point mu- membrane, causing leakage of intracellular ions and adenosine tation in liaR ) that activates the cell-envelope stress response, fol- triphosphate (ATP) , thus killing bacteria (Silverman et al. 2003 ). lowed by alterations in membrane phospholipid metabolism (via An alternative bactericidal mechanism has recently been demon- cls , gdpD , or related genes) that remodel the cell membrane and re- strated whereby daptomycin impairs cell wall synthesis by clus- duce daptomycin’s binding efficacy (Arias et al. 2011 ). In addition tering lipid II in the membrane, thus preventing membrane-bound to these canonical resistance mutations, other genetic contribu- enzymes, such as MurG from accessing their substrates and
