FEMS Microbiology Reviews , 2025, 49 , fuaf057
KEYWORDS: resistance, daptomycin, gene, enterococci, faecium, antibiotic, membrane, vancomycin, genes, faecalis, antibiotics, mutations, strains, cell, enterococcus


2011 ). In addition tering lipid II in the membrane, thus preventing membrane-bound to these canonical resistance mutations, other genetic contribu- enzymes, such as MurG from accessing their substrates and halt- tors have been documented. For example, one in vitro study iden- ing peptidoglycan assembly (Grein et al. 2020 , Buttress et al. 2024 ) tified mutations in seven loci, including a global transcriptional (Fig. 4 ). Two factors are crucial for the antimicrobial effect of dap- regulator ( rpoN ), during stepwise daptomycin adaptation, hint- tomycin. First, the formation of defined complexes, such as the ing at alternate routes to resistance when the primary pathway dimeric Dap2 Ca3 PG2 complex, enables stable and targeted binding is blocked (Kristich et al. 2014 ). Likewise, transposon sequencing to phosphatidylglycerol (PG)-rich domains of the bacterial mem- (Tn-seq) approaches have reinforced the centrality of the LiaFSR brane (Lee et al. 2017 ). Second, these complexes can further as- circuit and membrane homeostasis genes: disrupting the LiaFSR- semble into small, membrane-embedded oligomers that act as associated factor liaX or cell-envelope remodeling pathways (e.g. transient ionophores, allowing ion conduction across the mem- the dlt operon responsible for teichoic acid d -alanylation) sensi- brane without forming permanent pores (Chen et al. 2014 , Muller tizes E. faecalis to daptomycin, confirming these elements as cru- et al. 2016 , Huang 2020 ). This localized and regulated ion leak- cial for survival under antibiotic stress (Gilmore et al. 2020 ). age leads to membrane depolarization, which is one of the key Uniquely, E. faecalis shows a reorganization of phospholipid mi- events contributing to bacterial cell death. This proposed mech- crodomains within the cell membrane, distinct from patterns ob- anism distinguishes daptomycin from classic pore-forming pep- served in S. aureus or E. faecium . In nonresistant strains, anionic tides like melittin or gramicidin and highlights a more subtle but phospholipids such as cardiolipin are densely packed at the di- highly specific mode of action (Huang 2020 , Buttress et al. 2024 ). vision septum and polar areas. Although PG is the primary bind- ing target of daptomycin, cardiolipin plays an essential role in or- Mechanisms of daptomycin resistance ganizing membrane curvature and domain localization, particu- larly at sites of cell division. In resistant strains, these structures are disrupted, leading to the redistribution of these lipids, thereby resistance among enterococci has been observed (Munoz-Price et blocking daptomycin’s access to its
