FEMS Microbiology Reviews , 2025, 49 , fuaf057
KEYWORDS: resistance, daptomycin, gene, enterococci, faecium, antibiotic, membrane, vancomycin, genes, faecalis, antibiotics, mutations, strains, cell, enterococcus


cell division. In resistant strains, these structures are disrupted, leading to the redistribution of these lipids, thereby resistance among enterococci has been observed (Munoz-Price et blocking daptomycin’s access to its target sites, effectively reduc- al. 2005 , Lellek et al. 2015 , Chow et al. 2016 , Herc et al. 2017 ). This ing its bactericidal activity (Tran et al. 2013 ). This rearrangement resistance primarily stems from modifications in the lipid compo- of phospholipids is thought to act as a decoy mechanism to divert sition of the cell membrane, notably alterations in PG levels, which the antibiotic from essential membrane areas. impair the drug’s ability to bind to the membrane. Moreover, the The observed lipid redistribution may represent a downstream emergence of daptomycin resistance in enterococci appears to in- effect of regulatory reprogramming mediated by the LiaFSR sys- volve a range of mutations, particularly in genes responsible for tem. In particular, mutations such as D191N in LiaR mimic phos- cell membrane stress responses and phospholipid metabolism. phorylation and induce a conformational shift from dimer to Genes that, when mutated, are particularly commonly associ- tetramer, greatly enhancing DNA-binding affinity and upregulat- ated with daptomycin resistance include those in the LiaFSR sys- ing the stress response (Davlieva et al. 2015 ). Deletion of liaR , on tem and the yycFGHIJ (WalKR) operon, as well as enzymes criti- the other hand, results in a hypersusceptible phenotype, with cal for phospholipid homeostasis, such as glycerophosphoryl di- MICs dropping to as low as 0.094μg/ml, highlighting the system’s ester phosphodiesterase (GdpD) and cardiolipin synthase (Cls) (Li pivotal role in mediating daptomycin resistance (Reyes et al. 2015 ). et al. 2022a , Nguyen et al. 2024 ). Although E. faecalis and E. fae- Mutations in the LiaFSR pathway are often accompanied cium share genetic commonalities, they exhibit distinct evolution- by additional genetic changes that contribute to a more ro- ary trajectories to resistance upon daptomycin exposure (Miller bust daptomycin-resistant phenotype in E. faecalis (Nguyen et al. et al. 2016 ), and these will be discussed further below. Among 2024 ). For example, alterations in the cls gene encoding cardi- non- faecium , non- faecalis enterococci, daptomycin resistance ap- olipin synthase—such as the R218Q substitution or the N77–Q79 pears to be rare, with the exception of E. hirae where daptomycin- deletion—enhance resistance in laboratory strains like OG1RF resistant strains can be commonly isolated from livestock and the
