FEMS Microbiology Reviews , 2025, 49 , fuaf057
KEYWORDS: resistance, daptomycin, gene, enterococci, faecium, antibiotic, membrane, vancomycin, genes, faecalis, antibiotics, mutations, strains, cell, enterococcus


N77–Q79 pears to be rare, with the exception of E. hirae where daptomycin- deletion—enhance resistance in laboratory strains like OG1RF resistant strains can be commonly isolated from livestock and the (Palmer et al. 2011 ). Similarly, mutations in gdpD have been shown environment (Jackson et al. 2011 , Cho et al. 2020 , Mullally et al. to synergize with liaF mutations, resulting in a fully resistant phe- 2024 ). The mechanism of daptomycin resistance in E. hirae is cur- notype (Arias et al. 2011 ). Additional mutations have been identi- rently unknown. Below, we will also describe the recent evidence fied in the liaXYZ operon, which is transcriptionally regulated by for the emergence of mobile daptomycin resistance among Gram- LiaR. These genes are thought to modulate membrane remodel- positive bacteria, including in Enterococcus (Marciniak et al. 2025 ). ing in response to envelope stress. Notably, LiaY colocalizes with Cls and contributes to the formation of nonseptal cardiolipin- Daptomycin resistance in E. faecalis enriched microdomains, a key feature of daptomycin resistance In vitro evolution experiments have illuminated a common ge- (Miller et al. 2013 ). Furthermore, mutations in yybT and gshF , netic pathway by which E. faecalis acquires daptomycin resistance. which are associated with cyclic dinucleotide signaling and glu- Under escalating daptomycin exposure, laboratory strains consis- tathione metabolism respectively, have been identified in resistant tently develop mutations in a core set of cell-envelope regulatory strains. Although their precise roles remain under investigation, Luetal. | 9 Figure 4. Proposed dual mechanisms of action of daptomycin. Daptomycin is a calcium-dependent lipopeptide antibiotic used against Gram-positive bacteria. Upon calcium binding, daptomycin inserts into the bacterial membrane. Left: Daptomycin induces lipid II clustering within the membrane, creating steric hindrance that prevents the membrane association of enzymes that are essential for peptidoglycan biosynthesis, primarily the lipid II synthase MurG. This spatial interference inhibits peptidoglycan synthesis and leads to a failure in maintaining cell wall growth. Right: Daptomycin disrupts membrane microdomains, leading to membrane depolarization without forming large pores. The resulting loss of membrane potential ( (cid:3)ψ) impairs membrane function and contributes to bacterial killing. Figure created with BioRender.com ( ). these genes are implicated in broader stress–response networks efficacy of daptomycin (Nguyen et al. 2022 ). The impact of walKR that may reinforce cell envelope resilience during antibiotic chal- mutations on E. faecium remains to be elucidated. lenge (Miller et al. 2013 ). Another frequent
