FEMS Microbiology Reviews , 2025, 49 , fuaf057
KEYWORDS: resistance, daptomycin, gene, enterococci, faecium, antibiotic, membrane, vancomycin, genes, faecalis, antibiotics, mutations, strains, cell, enterococcus


). The impact of walKR that may reinforce cell envelope resilience during antibiotic chal- mutations on E. faecium remains to be elucidated. lenge (Miller et al. 2013 ). Another frequent adaptation is mutation of the cls gene, which leads to a perturbation of the membrane phospholipid composi- Daptomycin resistance in E. faecium tion; cls mutations redistribute anionic cardiolipin and decrease As with E. faecalis , daptomycin resistance in E. faecium arises the net negative charge on the cell surface, impeding dapto- through multifaceted genetic and biochemical adaptations of the mycin’s calcium-dependent binding to the bacterial membrane (Li cell envelope. While there are functional parallels to daptomycin et al. 2022b ). Consistent with these genetic changes, daptomycin- resistance in E. faecalis , E. faecium also evolves daptomycin resis- resistant E. faecium exhibit altered membrane physiology, includ- tance through unique pathways. Prominent mutational pathways ing a more positively charged cell envelope and reduced mem- to resistance involve the LiaFSR three-component regulatory sys- brane fluidity, which is achieved through phospholipid remodel- tem and the essential WalKR two-component system, a conserved ing, such as increased lysyl-PG and cyclopropane-modified fatty regulator of cell-envelope stress responses in Gram-positive bac- acids (Nguyen et al. 2022 ). While these modifications enhance sur- teria (Davlieva et al. 2013 , Zeng et al. 2022 , Turner et al. 2024 ). vival under daptomycin pressure, they often incur fitness trade- Constitutive activation of LiaFSR, as seen in daptomycin-resistant offs: resistant mutants tend to grow slower, have attenuated vir- isolates, triggers broad transcriptional reprogramming that leads ulence, and compete poorly in the absence of the drug. In some to a fortification of the cell envelope—for example, through the cases, the envelope changes even confer collateral sensitivities— increased expression of the dltABCD operon responsible for d - for instance, certain daptomycin-resistant E. faecium become re- alanylation of lipoteichoic acids and other membrane stress de- sensitized to glycopeptide antibiotics due to linked alterations in fenses, which may reduce the antibiotic’s ability to reach, bind to cell-envelope regulation (Zeng et al. 2022 ). Interestingly, in the ab- and disrupt the cytoplasmic membrane (Zeng et al. 2022 ). Notably, sence of antibiotic pressure, insertion of IS elements into the li- recurrent mutations such as W73C in LiaR and T120A in LiaS have aFSR locus has been observed, reversing resistance and restoring susceptibility (Sinel et al. 2016 ). hance resistance (Diaz et al. 2014 ). Alterations in
