FEMS Microbiology Reviews , 2025, 49 , fuaf057
KEYWORDS: resistance, daptomycin, gene, enterococci, faecium, antibiotic, membrane, vancomycin, genes, faecalis, antibiotics, mutations, strains, cell, enterococcus


LiaR and T120A in LiaS have aFSR locus has been observed, reversing resistance and restoring susceptibility (Sinel et al. 2016 ). hance resistance (Diaz et al. 2014 ). Alterations in the WalKR two- Notably, recent findings revealed the emergence of dominant component system have been shown in daptomycin-resistant E. hospital-adapted E. faecium lineages that combine daptomycin re- faecalis to lead to a remodeling of peptidoglycan synthesis and sistance with bacteriocin production, allowing them to outcom- septal division, producing a thicker cell wall that reduces the lytic pete other enterococcal strains in the gut and thrive despite the 10 | FEMSMicrobiologyReviews,2025,Vol.49 fitness costs of resistance (Mills et al. 2025 ). Further novel in- tion for selective intestinal VRE decolonization. In parallel, engi- sights into the evolution of daptomycin resistance in E. faecium neered phage-derived lysins—cell wall-degrading enzymes—have were revealed by the observation that rifaximin prophylaxis can demonstrated potent bactericidal activity against refractory E. fae- contribute to the emergence of daptomycin resistance in E. fae- cium and E. faecalis isolates in preclinical models (Cairns et al. 2023 , cium . Mechanistically, rifaximin selects for mutations in the rpoB Fujimoto et al. 2024 ). Monoclonal antibodies targeting Enterococcus gene (encoding the βsubunit of RNA polymerase), which leads to surface antigens, such as capsular polysaccharides and secreted the increased expression of the prdRAB operon and membrane re- virulence factors, have shown enhanced opsonophagocytic killing modeling, conferring resistance to daptomycin (Turner et al. 2024 ). in vitro and are advancing through late preclinical development Taken together, current evidence indicates that daptomycin re- (Kalfopoulou et al. 2019 ). While most of these strategies remain sistance in E. faecium is not the result of a single mutation but investigational, they collectively expand the future therapeutic rather a coordinated suite of regulatory and membrane adapta- arsenal and underscore the urgency for translational research fo- tions, chiefly involving LiaFSR/WalKR signaling and membrane cused specifically on multidrug-resistant Enterococcus (Cairns et al. lipid remodeling, that bolster the cell envelope against the antibi- 2023 ). otic, albeit often at the expense of overall fitness. Beyond these investigational strategies, a number of additional agents with promising antienterococcal activity have emerged from the antibiotic development pipeline. These include com- Emergence of a mobile daptomycin resistance pounds with novel mechanisms of action or improved pharmaco- mechanism logical properties. Radezolid, a second-generation oxazolidinone Until recently, all characterized mechanisms of daptomycin re- featuring a biaryl spacer and
