FEMS Microbiology Reviews , 2025, 49 , fuaf057
KEYWORDS: resistance, daptomycin, gene, enterococci, faecium, antibiotic, membrane, vancomycin, genes, faecalis, antibiotics, mutations, strains, cell, enterococcus


may veterinary settings, the potential for transmission into human- be of limited usefulness for the treatment of enterococcal infec- associated enterococci raises significant clinical concerns. Con- tions. Additionally, MGB-BP-3, a novel minor-groove DNA binder, tinued genomic surveillance and strict antimicrobial stewardship exerts its bactericidal activity by selectively targeting AT-rich re- will be essential to limit the emergence and spread of this trans- gions in the DNA of Gram-positive bacteria. It has demonstrated ferable resistance element. potent in vitro activity against both vancomycin-susceptible and -resistant Enterococcus and is being explored for its unique mech- anism that bypasses classical resistance pathways (Hind et al. Future perspectives and concluding 2022 ). While most of these candidates remain in early-phase remarks investigation, they represent a shift away from structural ana- The issue of multidrug resistance in Enterococcus , especially E. fae- logues of existing drugs toward truly novel pharmacophores cium , is increasingly problematic, as this pathogen adeptly accu- (Koulenti et al. 2020 ). Their continued advancement, in combina- mulates antibiotic resistance genes via horizontal gene transfer. tion with genomic surveillance of resistance determinants, may To combat the rising tide of antibiotic resistance among entero- offer a sustainable route to addressing the persistent challenge of cocci, there is a crucial need for innovative treatments beyond multidrug-resistant Enterococcus . traditional antibiotics. Although significant progress has been made with the devel- The therapeutic landscape against VRE is evolving beyond opment of new antibiotic candidates, the issue of multidrug re- conventional antibiotics, incorporating both next-generation syn- sistance in Enterococcus , especially E. faecium , remains a pressing thetic agents and innovative biologics. Delpazolid, a next- challenge. This pathogen not only evades new treatments but generation oxazolidinone that inhibits protein synthesis via the also rapidly accumulates resistance genes, necessitating alterna- 50S ribosomal subunit, has shown reduced hematologic toxic- tive approaches beyond traditional antibiotics. In response to this ity in Phase 2 trials (Cairns et al. 2023 ). Iclaprim, a diaminopy- growing threat, phage therapy has emerged as a promising so- rimidine targeting bacterial dihydrofolate reductase, has com- lution. By leveraging bacteriophages to target specific bacterial pleted Phase 3 studies and exhibits potent anti-VRE activity in pre- strains, phage therapy represents a tailored and highly adaptable Luetal. | 11 scribed the successful use of intravenous phage therapy, in com- Author contributions bination with antibiotic therapy, in a 1-year-old liver transplant Conceptualization: Z.L. and W.v.S. Writing –Original Draft, Review recipient
