FEMS Microbiology Reviews , 2025, 49 , fuaf057
KEYWORDS: resistance, daptomycin, gene, enterococci, faecium, antibiotic, membrane, vancomycin, genes, faecalis, antibiotics, mutations, strains, cell, enterococcus


scribed the successful use of intravenous phage therapy, in com- Author contributions bination with antibiotic therapy, in a 1-year-old liver transplant Conceptualization: Z.L. and W.v.S. Writing –Original Draft, Review recipient with a life-threatening abdominal infection caused by and Editing: all authors. vancomycin-resistant E. faecium . Treatment with a personalized quencing revealed that the infection shifted to a vancomycin- susceptible strain, highlighting phage therapy’s potential to both Funding control infection and modulate resistance dynamics (Paul et al. 2021 ). Another case study, in which phages were used, again in This work was supported by the China Scholarship Council (CSC, combination with antibiotics, to treat E. faecium bacteraemia had 202308440164) to Z.L., a grant of the Joint Programming Initia- a less favorable outcome as bacteraemia recurred after phage tive on Antimicrobial Resistance through the Medical Research therapy (Green et al. 2023 ). In addition to phage therapy, im- Council (MR/W031191/1) to R.S.M. and W.v.S, and a Biotechnol- munotherapeutic strategies, particularly monoclonal antibodies, ogy and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC) Respon- are gaining attention as targeted interventions against multidrug- sive Mode grant (APP21400) to K.G. and W.v.S. F.A. was supported resistant Enterococcus . Preclinical studies have demonstrated that was supported by BBSRC and University of Birmingham funded monoclonal antibodies directed against E. faecalis surface anti- Midlands Integrative Biosciences Training Partnership (MIBTP, gens, such as aggregation substance and capsular polysaccha- BB/T00746X/1). rides, can enhance opsonophagocytic killing and confer protec- tion in animal infection models (Romero-Saavedra et al. 2015 ).
