Primary Testicular Failure
KEYWORDS: testicular, patients, cell, male, chromosome, men, syndrome, arrest, spermatogenesis, klinefelter, failure, reprod, sperm, hum, normal


Abstract Primary testicular failure may result in endocrine failure, leading to testosterone deficiency or exocrine failure causing impaired spermatogenesis and subsequently male infertility. While some aspects of primary testicular failure are described in detail in separate chapters of Endotext.com, this chapter focuses on congenital or acquired anorchia, Leydig cell hypoplasia, and spermatogenic failure including germ cell aplasia (Sertoli cell only syndrome), spermatogenic arrest, hypospermatogenesis, and mixed atrophy. In addition, genetic causes for primary testicular failure are described such as numerical chromosome aberrations including Klinefelter syndrome, XX-Male syndrome, and XYY syndrome, structural chromosome aberrations of the autosomes or sex chromosomes, and Y chromosome microdeletions. For complete coverage of this and related areas in Endocrinology, please visit our free web-book, www.endotext.org . Key messages Bilateral anorchia is defined as a complete absence of testicular tissue in genetically and phenotypically male patients. Leydig cells hypoplasia is caused by inactivating mutations of the LH receptor. Primary spermatogenic failure has to be considered as a description of certain histopathologic phenotypes, and not as a manifestation of single disease entities. Several genetic causes for primary spermatogenic failure have been elucidated recently. Modern management of patients with primary testicular failure caused by numerical chromosome aberrations such as Klinefelter syndrome can ameliorate symptoms of testosterone deficiency and – at least in some patients – can overcome infertility. Up to date clinical guidelines are available for molecular diagnosis of Y chromosome microdeletions. Novel technologies such as whole-genome sequencing will help to greatly increase the fraction of men suffering from primary testicular failure with a clear genetic diagnosis. INTRODUCTION The testis has an endocrine as well as an exocrine function. Endocrine testicular failure results in testosterone deficiency. In primary endocrine testicular failure, a decline in testosterone secretion (resulting in a condition termed hypoandrogenism) is caused by a deficiency or absence of Leydig cell function. Clinically relevant diseases described in this chapter are anorchia, Leydig cell hypoplasia and numerical chromosome abnormalities. Testicular dysgenesis is another cause for primary testicular failure that is described in depth in Endotext.com, Pediatric Endocrinology, Chapter 7: Sexual Differentiation. In contrast to primary endocrine testicular failure, secondary endocrine testicular failure is caused by absent or insufficient bioactivity of GnRH or LH (see Endotext.com, Endocrinology of Male Reproduction, Chapter 5: Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and gonadotropin therapy). The phenotype of primary exocrine testicular failure is male infertility. A comprehensive review on causes and treatment of male infertility is given in
