Primary Testicular Failure
KEYWORDS: testicular, patients, cell, male, chromosome, men, syndrome, arrest, spermatogenesis, klinefelter, failure, reprod, sperm, hum, normal


Chapter 5: Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and gonadotropin therapy). The phenotype of primary exocrine testicular failure is male infertility. A comprehensive review on causes and treatment of male infertility is given in Endotext.com, Endocrinology of Male Reproduction, Chapter 7: Clinical management of male infertility. Cryptorchidism as a clinically relevant cause for primary exocrine testicular failure is discussed in Endotext.com, Endocrinology of Male Reproduction, Chapter 19: Cryptorchidism and hypospadias and testicular tumors as a cause and/or sequelae of testicular failure is discussed in Endotext.com, Endocrinology of Male Reproduction, Chapter 13: Testicular cancer pathogenesis, diagnosis and endocrine aspects. This chapter focuses on anorchia, germ cell aplasia, spermatogenetic arrest, hypospermatogenesis, numerical chromosome abnormalities, structural chromosomal abnormalities, as well as Y chromosome microdeletions causing primary exocrine testicular failure. ANORCHIA Bilateral anorchia is defined as complete absence of testicular tissue in genetically and phenotypically male patients. In unilateral anorchia testicular tissue is still present on the contralateral side. Pure anorchia has to be differentiated from conditions with ambiguous and intersex genitalia (see Endotext.com, Pediatric Endocrinology, Chapter 7: Sexual Differentiation). A clinically important differential diagnosis is cryptorchidism and testicular atrophy where testicular tissue is still detectable (see Endotext.com, Endocrinology of Male Reproduction, Chapter 19: Cryptorchidism and hypospadias). Congenital Anorchia Bilateral congenital anorchia is rare; the incidence appears to be 1:20,000 males. Unilateral congenital anorchia is about 4 times as frequent. As male differentiation of the genital tract and development of the penis and scrotum is dependent on the production of anti-Mullerian hormone (AMH) and androgens, the testis must have disappeared after initial activity in cases of bilateral anorchia. For the development of Wolffian duct structures, an ipsilateral testis must be present at least up to the 16th week of gestation ("the vanishing testis syndrome") (1). Intrauterine infarction of a maldescended testis or testicular torsion appears to be the major contributor to anorchia (2). In patients with congenital bilateral anorchia serum gonadotropins are already elevated in childhood and rise to very high levels from the age of puberty onwards. Testosterone levels remain within the castrate range. In patients with suspected bilateral anorchia it is mandatory to rule out cryptorchidism, as cryptorchidism is associated with an increased risk for testicular cancer and should definitively not be overlooked (see Endotext.com, Endocrinology of Male Reproduction, Chapter 13: Testicular cancer pathogenesis, diagnosis and endocrine aspects). Both the hCG stimulation test, that examines testosterone secretory capacity, and serum AMH measurement can be used for
