Primary Testicular Failure
KEYWORDS: testicular, patients, cell, male, chromosome, men, syndrome, arrest, spermatogenesis, klinefelter, failure, reprod, sperm, hum, normal


of Male Reproduction, Chapter 13: Testicular cancer pathogenesis, diagnosis and endocrine aspects). Both the hCG stimulation test, that examines testosterone secretory capacity, and serum AMH measurement can be used for differential diagnosis. During hCG administration testosterone levels remain unchanged in patients with bilateral anorchia even after a 7-day period of stimulation, while a rise can be detected in patients with cryptorchidism (3). In comparison to the hCG test, measurement of AMH, which is undetectable in anorchia, has a higher sensitivity, but equal specificity for differentiation of bilateral anorchia from bilateral cryptorchidism (4; 5). Endocrine tests are not useful for differential diagnosis of unilateral anorchia. In these cases imaging techniques such as computer tomography or MRT and finally exploratory surgery or laparoscopy have to be applied. Unilateral anorchia does not require therapy. In phenotypically male patients with bilateral congenital anorchia, testosterone substitution has to be implemented at the time of expected puberty. For psychological or cosmetic reasons, implantation of testicular protheses could be offered to the patient although these are often expensive. To date, there is no treatment of infertility in bilateral anorchia. Acquired Anorchia Surgical removal of both testes in patients with androgen-dependent prostate carcinoma is the most prevalent cause for bilateral acquired anorchia. Other reasons include unintended removal or devascularisation during herniotomy, orchidopexy or other testicular surgery, testicular infarction, severe trauma and self-mutilation. If only one testis is lost then fertility and testosterone production will normally be maintained by the remaining testis and no specific therapy is required. However, patients with a single testis require careful management when surgery is planned on the remaining testis. The clinical appearance in patients with bilateral acquired anorchia depends on the time when testicular loss occurred. Acquired anorchia before puberty leads to the characteristic phenotype of male eunuchoidism and after puberty to the phenotype of post-pubertal testosterone deficiency (see Endotext.com, Endocrinology of Male Reproduction, Chapter 2: Androgen physiology, pharmacology and abuse). Untreated acquired bilateral anorchia seems to have no effect on life expectancy, but clearly has an adverse effect on the quality of life (6). If both testes have been removed for therapeutic purposes, e.g. in a patient with prostate carcinoma, androgen supplementation is contraindicated. All other patients have to receive permanent testosterone substitution from the time of the expected onset of puberty in order to induce pubertal development, and in an adult immediately after testicular loss to maintain the various androgen-dependent functions.
