Primary Testicular Failure
KEYWORDS: testicular, patients, cell, male, chromosome, men, syndrome, arrest, spermatogenesis, klinefelter, failure, reprod, sperm, hum, normal


substitution from the time of the expected onset of puberty in order to induce pubertal development, and in an adult immediately after testicular loss to maintain the various androgen-dependent functions. LEYDIG CELL HYPOPLASIA Leydig cell hypoplasia is a rare disease with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance and estimated incidence of 1:1,000,000. The Leydig cells are unable to develop because of inactivating mutations of the LH receptor that fails to provide the necessary stimulation of intracellular pathways. The underlying gene defect in Leydig cell hypoplasia was first described by Kremer et al (7) and various other defects have since been described (8–21). Men with Leydig cell hypoplasia present with very low serum testosterone and high LH levels. Leydig cell hypoplasia belongs to the group of the disorders of sex differentiation (DSD) and is currently classified as 46,XY DSD. The phenotype is dependent on the extent of intrauterine testosterone secretion. Two types of Leydig cell hypoplasia have been described. Type I is the most severe form, resulting in a female phenotype of the external genitalia with blind ending vagina, primary amenorrhea, and absence of secondary sex differentiation at puberty. It is caused by inactivating mutations in the LH receptor that completely prevent LH and hCG signal transduction and thus testosterone production. Leydig cell hypoplasia type II is characterized by milder signs of androgen deficiency with a predominantly male habitus but signs of hypogonadism with micropenis and/or hypospadia. This milder form is derived from mutations of the LH receptor, which only partially inactivate signal transduction and retain some responsiveness to LH (16). Testicular histology reveals seminiferous tubules, whereas Leydig cells are not present or appear only as immature forms. Epididymides and deferent ducts are usually present, whereas the uterus, tubes or upper vagina are not found. In a patient with Leydig cell hypoplasia type II lacking exon 10 of the LH receptor, maternal hCG synthesized during pregnancy probably led to the development of a normal male phenotype, whereas LH was unable to stimulate the mutant receptor at the time of puberty (22; 23). HCG treatment of this patient was capable of inducing testosterone biosynthesis and complete spermatogenesis (22). This case, however, represents an exception. Therapy of 46,XY DSD with complete feminization requires both orchidectomy because cryptorchid gonads are prone to malignant degeneration, and estrogen substitution therapy. Spermatogenic failure Whereas endocrine testicular failure causes hypogonadism, spermatogenic failure - defined as exocrine testicular failure
