Primary Testicular Failure
KEYWORDS: testicular, patients, cell, male, chromosome, men, syndrome, arrest, spermatogenesis, klinefelter, failure, reprod, sperm, hum, normal


both orchidectomy because cryptorchid gonads are prone to malignant degeneration, and estrogen substitution therapy. Spermatogenic failure Whereas endocrine testicular failure causes hypogonadism, spermatogenic failure - defined as exocrine testicular failure - leads to male infertility. Spermatogenic failure might be caused by hypothalamic, pituitary, or testicular disorders. A comprehensive review on causes and treatments of male infertility is given in Endotext.com, Endocrinology of Male Reproduction, Chapter 7: Clinical management of male infertility. Various testicular etiologies of spermatogenic failure may lead to the same histopathological pattern. In this sense, spermatogenic failure such as germ cell aplasia (Sertoli cell only syndrome), maturation arrest (MA) at different levels of early round spermatids, primary spermatocytes, or spermatogonia, and hypospermatogenesis have to be clearly differentiated from normal spermatogenesis. A key point is that primary spermatogenic failure has to be considered as a description of certain histopathologic phenotypes, and not as a manifestation of single disease entities. GERM CELL APLASIA (SERTOLI CELL ONLY SYNDROME) Germ cell aplasia or Sertoli cell only syndrome (SCO) is a histopathologic phenotype that was first described by Del Castillo et al. in 1947 (24). In complete germ cell aplasia the tubules are reduced in diameter, and contain only Sertoli cells but no other cells involved in spermatogenesis [ Figure 1 ]. Germ cell aplasia can also be focal with a variable percentage of tubules containing germ cells, but in these tubules spermatogenesis is often limited in both quantitative and qualitative terms (25), and such cases should be referred to as hypospermatogenesis (see below). Germ cell aplasia or SCO is one common cause of non-obstructive azoospermia (NOA). Figure 1 Germinal cell aplasia or Sertoli cell only Syndrome: Seminiferous tubules exhibit only Sertoli cells (SCO). Note the thickening of the lamina propria, focal hyperplasia of Leydig cells (hypLc) and interstitial infiltration of lymphocytes (ly). Primary magnification, x 20. The lamina propria of SCO tubules is often found to be thickened due to increased collagen type IV and increased thickness of the basal lamina. The latter is associated with an overabundance of the beta2 chain of laminin and thought to be related to spermatogenic dysfunction (26). In congenital germ cell aplasia, the primordial germ cells do not migrate from the yolk sac into the future gonads or do not survive in the epithelium of the seminiferous tubule. Anti-neoplastic therapy with radiation or chemotherapy may cause complete loss of germ cells. Other reasons include viral infections
