Primary Testicular Failure
KEYWORDS: testicular, patients, cell, male, chromosome, men, syndrome, arrest, spermatogenesis, klinefelter, failure, reprod, sperm, hum, normal


gonads or do not survive in the epithelium of the seminiferous tubule. Anti-neoplastic therapy with radiation or chemotherapy may cause complete loss of germ cells. Other reasons include viral infections of the testes such as mumps orchitis. Germ cell aplasia can occur in maldescended testes. Chromosomal abnormalities, especially microdeletions of the Y chromosome, are important genetic causes for complete germ cell aplasia (27). These deletions have been characterized and deletions in the AZFb or AZFb+c regions were identified to be important genetic causes of SCO and/or MA resulting in azoospermia (28). Sertoli cells, although showing normal histology, have an increased apoptotic index (29–31). Several studies tried to identify other genetic risk factors which are associated with SCO. SEPTINS belong to a family of polymerizing GTP-binding proteins being required, for example, for membrane compartmentalization, vesicle trafficking, mitosis and cytoskeletal remodeling. SEPTIN12 participates in male infertility, especially SCO. Although no mutations were found in patients with SCO, 8 coding single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP1-SNP8) could be detected in these patients and the genotype and allele frequencies in SNP3, SNP4, and SNP6 were notably higher than in the control group (32). Most recently, Miyamoto et al. (33) analyzed the human LRWD1 gene whose translated protein mediates the origin recognition complex in chromatin which is critical for chromatin organization in post-G1 cells. Again, no mutations in SCO patients were found, but allele frequencies of two of three SNPs (SNP1 and SNP2) were notably higher compared to controls. A hint to genetic risk factors leading to SCO was given by Tüttelmann et al. (34). They evaluated copy number variants (CNVs) in patients with severe oligozoospermia and Sertoli-cell-only syndrome and found that sex-chromosomal CNVs were significantly overrepresented in patients with SCO. Diagnosis of germ cell aplasia can only be made by testicular biopsy. However, the testicular biopsy may not be representative in certain patients, as testicular sperm have been retrieved by testicular sperm extraction (TESE) in patients with apparently "complete germ cell aplasia" following a diligent review of the testicular histology (35). In addition, it has been demonstrated in a large consecutive series of bilateral biopsies from 534 infertile men that a marked discordance of spermatogenic phenotype pattern between both testes can be detected in about 28% of patients (36). Therefore, multiple testicular biopsies of both testes must be scrupulously screened before a diagnosis of complete germ cell aplasia can be made (37). Patients with the complete form
