Primary Testicular Failure
KEYWORDS: testicular, patients, cell, male, chromosome, men, syndrome, arrest, spermatogenesis, klinefelter, failure, reprod, sperm, hum, normal


patients (36). Therefore, multiple testicular biopsies of both testes must be scrupulously screened before a diagnosis of complete germ cell aplasia can be made (37). Patients with the complete form of germ cell aplasia are always azoospermic. Currently, there is no therapy for exocrine testicular failure of patients with complete germ cell aplasia. In general, testosterone production in the Leydig cells is not affected and patients are normally androgenized, and only few patients have hypoandrogenism requiring treatment. Some patients have the appearance of complete germinal cell aplasia in some tubules but with complete spermatogenesis in adjacent tubules (sometimes called ‘focal’ germinal cell aplasia) while others have the appearance of an excess number of precursor germ cells in relation to the number of mature spermatids in the epithelium. Such cases have been described as incomplete or focal germinal cell aplasia which implies, perhaps falsely, a commonality between these disorders and those with complete germinal cell aplasia in all tubules. SPERMATOGENIC ARREST Spermatogenic arrest is also not a specific diagnosis for primary exocrine testicular failure, but a histopathological description of the interruption of normal germ cell maturation [ Figure 2 ] at the level of a specific cell type including that of spermatogonial arrest [ Figure 3 ], spermatocyte arrest [ Figure 4 ], and spermatid arrest [ Figure 5 ]). Sometimes, seminiferous cords/nodules with immature Sertoli cells can be found. These Sertoli cells still exhibit anti-muellerian hormone expression indicating their prepubertal state of differentiation. A definite diagnosis can only be made by multiple testicular biopsies. Figure 2 Normal spermatogenesis: Seminiferous epithelium in stage I (I) and stage III (III) of spermatogenesis showing spermatogonia (sg), pachytene spermatocytes (p), round step 1 and 3 spermatids (rsd) and elongating step 7 spermatids (elsd). Primary magnification, x 40. Figure 3 Arrest of spermatogenesis: Seminiferous tubule showing arrest of spermatogenesis at the level of spermatogonia. Note multilayered spermatogonia (spg). Arrow: Sertoli cell nuclei. Primary magnification, x 40. Figure 4 Arrest of spermatogenesis: Seminiferous tubule showing arrest of spermatogenesis at the level of primary spermatocytes in pachytene stage (p). Primary magnification, x 40. Figure 5 Arrest of spermatogenesis: Seminiferous tubule showing arrest of spermatogenesis at the level of early round spermatids (rsd). Note prominent multinucleated spermatid (mrsd). Primary magnification, x 40. Meiotic arrest is regularly found in patients showing non obstructive azoospermia being considered as idiopathic, because no genetic or other origin can be detected. There are
