Primary Testicular Failure
KEYWORDS: testicular, patients, cell, male, chromosome, men, syndrome, arrest, spermatogenesis, klinefelter, failure, reprod, sperm, hum, normal


Primary magnification, x 40. Meiotic arrest is regularly found in patients showing non obstructive azoospermia being considered as idiopathic, because no genetic or other origin can be detected. There are numerous studies showing lack of expression of several genes in meiotic maturation arrest compared to normal spermatogenesis. A major subgroup of patients lacks BOULE protein expression in primary spermatocytes, which is key factor of meiosis (38). The defect seems to be due to factor(s) upstream of BOULE being involved in the transcription and/or translation of BOULE. Heat shock protein levels are low or absent, such as heat shock transcription factor, Y chromosome (HSFY) (39) or HSPA2 that is involved in DNA mismatch repair (MMR) (40). SYPC3, a gene responsible for the synaptonemal complex is also involved in MMR and was found to be reduced. There is increasing evidence that alterations of the SYPC3 gene are involved in spermatocyte maturation arrest. Although expression of SYCP3 mRNA is found in patients showing normal spermatogenesis and spermatocyte maturation arrest, the lack of expression in men with spermatogonial arrest, Sertoli Cell Only syndrome, and testicular atrophy suggests negative effect on spermatogenesis and male fertility (41). However, data concerning the involvement of SYCP3 mutations related to spermatocyte arrest are inconsistent. A mutation analysis of the SYCP3 gene for 58 patients revealed only polymorphisms (42). Miyamoto et al. found a 1 bp deletion (643delA) resulting in a truncation of the C-terminal region of the SYCP3 protein in two of 19 azoospermic men with maturation arrest versus 75 patients showing normal spermatogenesis (43). Recently Stouffs et al. detected one change present in an evolutionary important functional domain of the SYCP3 gene in only one male patient that was absent in more than 200 controls (44). MicroRNA-383 was shown to be down-regulated in maturation arrest (45). It was associated with a hyperactive proliferation of germ cells in patients with mixed patterns of maturation arrest, indicating that miR-383 functions as a negative regulator of proliferation. The authors concluded that abnormal testicular miR-383 expression may potentiate the connections between male infertility and testicular germ cell tumor (46). There is a possible feedback loop between the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) and miRNA-383, and FMRP acts as negative regulator for miRNA-383 functions, a loop that seems to be disturbed in maturation arrest (47). Increased apoptotic index associated with spermatocyte maturation arrest was reported (29–31), data that correspond to the lack
