Primary Testicular Failure
KEYWORDS: testicular, patients, cell, male, chromosome, men, syndrome, arrest, spermatogenesis, klinefelter, failure, reprod, sperm, hum, normal


miRNA-383 functions, a loop that seems to be disturbed in maturation arrest (47). Increased apoptotic index associated with spermatocyte maturation arrest was reported (29–31), data that correspond to the lack of expression of survivin, an inhibitor of apoptosis (48). These data correspond to the reduction of cyclin A, required for both the mitotic and meiotic divisions, in meiotic arrest (49). In tubules showing meiotic arrest, there is also disturbance of the expression pattern of genes that are required for spermiogenesis. For example, BET (bromodomain and extra terminal) genes encode for transcriptional regulators and for histone-interacting chromatin remodelers. BRDT (bromodine testis specific), a key molecule participating in chromatin remodeling, is required for creation and/or maintenance of the chromocenter in round spermatids, a structure that forms just after completion of meiosis (for review see (50). The BRDT protein is localized in the nuclei of spermatocytes, spermatids, and ejaculated spermatozoa, and transcription is almost zero in primary spermatocytes of testes showing meiotic arrest (51). These data indicate that genes being important for postmeiotic spermiogenesis are already disturbed in the premeiotic stage. In some patients with predominant round spermatid maturation arrest, the expression of cAMP Responsive Element Modulator (CREM) is significantly reduced or undetectable (52). Most recently, different expression of chromatin remodeling factors between normal spermatogenesis and round spermatid maturation arrest were found and suggest that impaired epigenetic information and aberrant transcription represents one reason for spermatid maturation arrest (53). Studies of the numerous mouse knock out models that display a spermatogenic phenotype, including sperm cell arrest, has contributed little of clinical relevance to the large number of men with idiopathic infertility. The possible role of several gene mutations and polymorphisms has been extensively investigated but no clear-cut genetic factor could be identified so far (54; 55). Spermiogenesis is a complex process with numerous different factors being involved. Thus it should be noticed that many factors are described and will be found to be related or responsible for spermatid maturation arrest, such as Krüppel-like factor 4 (KLF4), a transcription factor which is involved in many cellular and developmental processes including terminal differentiation of cells and carcinogenesis. A significant altered subcellular localization in arrested spermatids gives a first hint at a role for KLF4 during spermiogenesis (56). Data concerning the topic of possible epigenetic alterations related to spermatogenic defects are rare. Khazamipour et al. analyzed the methylation status in the specific CpG island of the
