Primary Testicular Failure
KEYWORDS: testicular, patients, cell, male, chromosome, men, syndrome, arrest, spermatogenesis, klinefelter, failure, reprod, sperm, hum, normal


spermiogenesis (56). Data concerning the topic of possible epigenetic alterations related to spermatogenic defects are rare. Khazamipour et al. analyzed the methylation status in the specific CpG island of the promoter region of MTHFR (Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase) and found a significant hyper-methylation in 53% of the patients showing NOA compared to 0% of patients with obstructive azoospermia and normal spermatogenesis, indicating that hyper-methylation is specific and not due to a general methylation defect (57). Authors suggest that epigenetic silencing of MTHFR may be involved in azoospermic infertility. A similar study analyzing the CpG island containing tissue specific differentially methylated regions (TDMRs) in the VASA gene revealed significantly higher methylation in maturation arrest compared to normal spermatogenesis (58). Hyper-methylation associated silencing of PIWIL2 and TDRD1 was reported by Heyn et al. in human infertile patients showing maturation arrest (59). Adiga et al. evaluated the expression pattern of a DNA methyltransferase (DNMT3B) which is important for germ cell methylation (60). Although they found a reduced number of DNMT3B positive primary spermatocytes in the case of bilateral maturation arrest, the few mature spermatids did not reveal any alterations of global methylation status. Additionally, there may also be extratesticular factors such as long standing ischemia due to malformation of valves in spermatic veins responsible for maturation arrest (61). Secondary factors for spermatogenetic arrest are toxic substances (radiotherapy, chemotherapy, antibiotics), heat or general diseases (liver or kidney insufficiency, sickle cell anaemia) (62). Testicular volume, FSH and inhibin B may be in their respective normal range, but may also be elevated or decreased. When these clinical parameters are normal, the differential diagnosis includes obstructive and non-obstructive azoospermia and this distinction made by diagnostic biopsy. The arrest may be caused by genetic or by secondary influences. Genetic etiologies include trisomy, balanced-autosomal anomalies (translocations, inversions) or deletions in the Y chromosome (Yq11). It is likely that many genetic factors exist but have not yet been identified. Complete arrest of spermatogenesis results in azoospermia. To date, there is no known therapy for uniform spermatogenic arrest (63). HYPOSPERMATOGENESIS The histological phenotype “hypospermatogenesis” shows complete spermatogenesis, but the number of elongating or elongated spermatids is moderately or severely reduced and the composition of the seminiferous epithelium is often incomplete because of missing generations of germ cells. There are numerous reports showing functional impairment or alterations in seminiferous tubules showing hypospermatogenesis. Hypospermatogenesis is often associated with multinucleated spermatids indicating failure in spermiogenesis, or
