Primary Testicular Failure
KEYWORDS: testicular, patients, cell, male, chromosome, men, syndrome, arrest, spermatogenesis, klinefelter, failure, reprod, sperm, hum, normal


generations of germ cells. There are numerous reports showing functional impairment or alterations in seminiferous tubules showing hypospermatogenesis. Hypospermatogenesis is often associated with multinucleated spermatids indicating failure in spermiogenesis, or with so-called “megalospermatocytes” that are the morphological representation of missing synaptonemal complexes during meiotic prophase (64; 65). Whereas mitotic activity of spermatogonia is reduced (66), the apoptotic index indicating increased germ cell degeneration is elevated as shown by caspase immunohistochemistry (31) or TUNEL analysis (30). Both are also true in the case of maturation arrest at different levels of germ cell development. Concentric spherical concrements deriving from the basal lamina are often found, when ultrasonographic examination of the testis reveals “microlithiasis”. These concrements may be associated with carcinoma in situ (syn: testicular intraepithelial neoplasia: TIN). During spermiogenesis, protamine mRNA, being associated with the prognosis of successful ICSI therapy, is reduced in early round spermatids (67; 68). The histone to protamine transition during spermiogenesis is due the transcription factor CREM (cAMP responsive element modulator) and CREM activators. There are different isoforms functioning as activators and repressors and the expression pattern is related to impaired spermatogenesis (69–71). Sertoli cell function is impaired, which has been described by Bruning et al. (72) by three dimensional reconstruction indicating functional dedifferentiation. This phenomenon, found to be associated with numerous aspects of Sertoli cell function, was later reviewed by Sharpe et al. (73). Most recently, Fietz et al. (74) could show a reduced mRNA expression of the androgen binding protein by quantitative RT-PCR. Huthaniemi et al. (75) found increased testosterone levels associated with androgen receptor CAG repeat length and because of a constant testosterone to estrogen ratio, authors suggested increased estrogen levels to be responsible for impaired spermatogenesis. Contrary data were reported by Nenonen et al. (76) who found a non-linear association between androgen receptor CAG repeat length and risk of male subfertility. This meta-analysis including almost 4000 patients revealed that androgen receptors with both either short or long repeats displayed lower activity than the receptors with repeats of median length. On a cellular level, Fietz et al. (74) analyzed androgen receptor mRNA of Sertoli cell populations associated with defined spermatogenic impairment using laser assisted cell picking and did not find any correlation of CAG repeat length to testicular histology or AR expression, suggesting factors other than CAG repeat to be responsible for severe spermatogenic impairment including mixed atrophy. This was also found by Hadjkacem-Loukil et
