Primary Testicular Failure
KEYWORDS: testicular, patients, cell, male, chromosome, men, syndrome, arrest, spermatogenesis, klinefelter, failure, reprod, sperm, hum, normal


length to testicular histology or AR expression, suggesting factors other than CAG repeat to be responsible for severe spermatogenic impairment including mixed atrophy. This was also found by Hadjkacem-Loukil et al. (77) in a cohort of Tunesian azoospermic men showing Sertoli Cell Only syndrome or maturation arrest. The lamina propria looks mostly unaffected in routine histological sections. However, functional defects resulting in a loss of contractility i.e. such as myosin heavy chain (MHY11) (78) or smooth muscle actin (79) were associated with hypospermatogenesis or mixed atrophy. Functional dedifferentiation was found in Leydig cell hyperplasia and adenoma indicated by downregulation of the Leydig cell specific relaxin-like factor using in situ hybridysation and immunohistochemistry (80). In most patients with hypospermatogenesis, testicular volume is reduced. FSH is elevated in most, but not all patients, with serum levels correlating positively with the proportion of tubules with germ cell aplasia (81). Several studies have demonstrated that inhibin B is a more sensitive and specific endocrine marker of hypospermatogenesis (82; 83). However, even the combined measurement of inhibin B and FSH provides no certainty concerning the presence or absence of sperm in multiple testicular biopsies (84; 85). Mixed Atrophy In most oligozoo- or azoospermic patients, testicular biopsy reveals a pattern of different spermatogenic defects in adjacent tubules: “mixed atrophy” being first described by Sigg (86): the simultaneous occurrence of seminiferous tubules includes SCO tubules or even only lamina propria (tubular shadows). This requires a detailed score-count analysis (35; 37). Additionally, functional mRNA or protein analysis of gene expression pattern described above can help to optimize the diagnosis of the underlying defects. From a practical clinical perspective, the differentiation is important as patients with hypospermatogenesis or mixed atrophy may have azoospermia or varying degrees of oligoasthenoteratozoospermia, and sperm may be retrieved from testicular biopsies (TESE) (35). Pregnancies can be achieved with sperm retrieved by TESE that are injected into mature oocytes by intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). It has been suggested that residual sperm production could be improved by FSH therapy in incomplete germ cell aplasia. Clinical studies performed so far have demonstrated some increase in sperm concentration in the ejaculate and improvement of pregnancy rate (87; 88). NUMERICAL CHROMOSOME ABERRATIONS Klinefelter Syndrome Harry Klinefelter first described this syndrome in 1942 as a clinical condition with small testes, azoospermia, gynecomastia and an elevated serum FSH (89). Only in 1959 was the chromosomal basis of the disorder elucidated as
