Primary Testicular Failure
KEYWORDS: testicular, patients, cell, male, chromosome, men, syndrome, arrest, spermatogenesis, klinefelter, failure, reprod, sperm, hum, normal


syndrome in 1942 as a clinical condition with small testes, azoospermia, gynecomastia and an elevated serum FSH (89). Only in 1959 was the chromosomal basis of the disorder elucidated as the chromosomal constitution with a supernumerary X-chromosome. Subsequently, the diagnosis of Klinefelter syndrome is made by chromosome analysis demonstrating the 47,XXY karyotype or one of its rarer variants. The prevalence of Klinefelter syndrome is approximately 1 in 1,000 to 1 in 500 males (90). It is the most frequent form of primary testicular dysfunction affecting spermatogenesis as well as hormone production and is found in about 3% of unselected infertile men and >10% of men presenting with azoospermia (91; 92). It appears that at least half of the cases remain undiagnosed and untreated throughout life (90). A non-mosaic 47,XXY karyotype is found in 80 - 90 percent of Klinefelter patients and mosaicism is seen in another 5 - 10 percent. The 47,XXY/46,XY mosaicism is most common. The 48,XXXY, 48,XXYY and 49,XXXXY karyotypes constitute 4 - 5 percent of all Klinefelter syndrome karyotypes, structurally abnormal extra X chromosomes are found in less than one percent of patients. Apart from karyotype analysis, molecular genetics methods can be used to quantify the number of X chromosomes, for example by quantitative PCR analysis of the androgen receptor gene located on the X chromosome (93). The numerical aberration in non-mosaic 47,XXY is derived with equal likelihood from maternal or paternal meiotic error (94; 95). Most cases are caused by meiosis without X/Y or X/X recombination. Advanced maternal age seems to be a risk factor (90). It is not known whether the 47,XXY karyotype is slightly over-represented among spontaneous abortions and stillbirths. However, in contrast to many other aneuploidies, Klinefelter syndrome seems to be only a minor risk factor and most pregnancies result in a live-birth. Patients with Klinefelter syndrome are usually inconspicuous until puberty. Interestingly the velocity of height gain can be increased in the pre-pubertal years. Men with Klinefelter syndrome tend to be tall (mean adult height is about the 80th percentile for the population) and to have relatively long legs compared to their overall height. Previously, the tall stature in KS was mainly thought to be a consequence of the hypogonadism, i.e. lower testosterone/estradiol levels not stopping long-bone growth by inducing epiphyseal growth plate fusion. However, more recent data comparing gonosomal aneuploidies support that increased body height is caused by excessive expression of
