Primary Testicular Failure
KEYWORDS: testicular, patients, cell, male, chromosome, men, syndrome, arrest, spermatogenesis, klinefelter, failure, reprod, sperm, hum, normal


testosterone/estradiol levels not stopping long-bone growth by inducing epiphyseal growth plate fusion. However, more recent data comparing gonosomal aneuploidies support that increased body height is caused by excessive expression of growth-related genes. In this respect, the SHOX -gene is the leading candidate as it is located in the pseudoautosomal region and therefore present in three copies in Klinefelter men (96). In most patients, early stages of puberty proceed normally. Post-pubertally the syndrome is characterized by small testes with firm consistency remaining in the range of 1 - 4 ml. Most patients with Klinefelter syndrome are infertile because of azoospermia. Testicular histopathology in adult men with Klinefelter syndrome displays various patterns. Classically, germ cell aplasia, total tubular atrophy or hyalinizing fibrosis and relative hyperplasia of Leydig cells are found. However, in some adult Klinefelter patients, foci of spermatogenesis up to the stage of mature testicular sperm can be detected ((97), and see below). The degree of virilization varies widely. In early puberty, LH and FSH increase while serum levels of testosterone plateaus at or just below the lower limit of the normal range. After the age of 25, about 80% of patients have reduced serum testosterone levels and complain of decreasing libido and potency. On average, serum estradiol levels are high normal or may exceed the normal range. LH and especially FSH levels are exceedingly high, serum levels of inhibin B are very low or undetectable (98; 99). During puberty, bilateral painless gynecomastia of varying degrees develops in about half of the patients. In a large Danish study covering 696 men with Klinefelter syndrome, no evidence for a substantial increase in the overall cancer rate was found (100). The risk of developing mammary carcinoma may be increased relative to normal men but remains a rare occurrence and routine surveillance is not recommended (100; 101). A significantly increased risk was found for the rare mediastinal malignant germ cell tumors, which occur preferentially at the age of 14 to 29 years (100). The intelligence of Klinefelter patients is very variable. The group difference between boys with Klinefelter syndrome and controls amounts to 11 points in full scale IQ (92 versus 103), and deficits are observed primarily in verbal and cognitive abilities (102). Some of the young patients attract attention because of learning difficulties and school problems. They may fail to reach the level of achievement or professional expectations of their families (103; 104).
