Primary Testicular Failure
KEYWORDS: testicular, patients, cell, male, chromosome, men, syndrome, arrest, spermatogenesis, klinefelter, failure, reprod, sperm, hum, normal


of the young patients attract attention because of learning difficulties and school problems. They may fail to reach the level of achievement or professional expectations of their families (103; 104). Compared with their classmates, certain abnormal physical and psychological characteristics of the patients become obvious and they may become socially alienated. Higher-grade aneuploidy of the sex-chromosomes (48,XXXY, 48,XXYY and 49,XXXXY) is associated with mild to severe mental retardation while Klinefelter patients with chromosomal mosaicism (47,XXY/46,XY) may show very few clinical symptoms. In general, the variability of the clinical features in patients with Klinefelter syndrome is related to the degree of androgenisation, which, in turn, partly depends on the pattern of inactivation of one copy of the androgen receptor gene. In particular, a significant genotype-phenotype association exists in Klinefelter patients and androgen effects on appearance and social characteristics are modulated by the androgen receptor CAGn polymorphism (105; 106). Regarding infertility treatment, it should be noted that in rare cases sperm could be found in the ejaculate and, exceptionally, spontaneous paternity has been described (107). The rate of diploidy of sperm as well as disomy for gonosomes and autosomes has been reported to be increased in patients with Klinefelter syndrome, however, the majority of sperm appear to be normal (108–111). Almost two decades of experience with TESE/ICSI in patients with Klinefelter syndrome demonstrates that testicular sperm can be recovered in about 50% of the patients (112–115). Increasing age may be a negative predictive factor for successful TESE and some advocate to offer TESE and cryopreservation of tissue/spermatozoa already to teenaged patients. To what extent other factors such as previous testosterone treatment influence the chances of successful TESE remains under debate, as does the suggested treatment with drugs increasing FSH prior to TESE (116). So far, over 170 babies were born using testicular sperm for ISCI, all showing normal karyotype, although aneuploidies can be occasionally found by preimplantation or prenatal diagnosis (117). However, since the birth of normal children conceived by assisted reproductive techniques seems to be the rule (115), preimplantation diagnosis is not per se indicated. Based on indirect clues, it was postulated that 47,XXY spermatogonia are able to complete meiosis (118). However, Sciurano et al. nicely showed by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) in testicular tissue of Klinefelter patients that all meiotic spermatocytes were euploid 46,XY(119). Fittingly, the common birth of children with normal karyotype suggests that the few sperm which
