Primary Testicular Failure
KEYWORDS: testicular, patients, cell, male, chromosome, men, syndrome, arrest, spermatogenesis, klinefelter, failure, reprod, sperm, hum, normal


hybridization (FISH) in testicular tissue of Klinefelter patients that all meiotic spermatocytes were euploid 46,XY(119). Fittingly, the common birth of children with normal karyotype suggests that the few sperm which can be found in patients with Klinefelter syndrome derive from the clonal expansion of spermatogonia with normal karyotype. When testosterone serum levels are reduced, substitution with testosterone is necessary. To avoid symptoms of androgen deficiency, hormone replacement therapy should be initiated as early as needed. In particular, Nielsen et al. (120) showed that early testosterone replacement not only relieves biological symptoms such as anemia, osteoporosis, muscular weakness and impotence, but also leads to better social adjustment and integration. However, concurrent testosterone treatment severely reduces the chances of successful TESE and, therefore, the option of TESE should be considered before starting the first testosterone substitution and otherwise treatment should be stopped before the biopsy. Testosterone replacement must be considered a lifelong therapy in Klinefelter patients to assure quality of life. Usually gynecomastia is not influenced by hormone therapy. If it disturbs the patient, a plastic surgeon experienced in cosmetic breast surgery could perform a mastectomy. XX-Male Syndrome The XX-Male Syndrome is characterized by the combination of male external genitalia, testicular differentiation of the gonads and a 46,XX karyotype by conventional cytogenetic analysis. This disorder shows a prevalence of 1:9,000 to 1:20,000. Applying fluorescence in situ hybridization or molecular methods it has been demonstrated that about 80% of XX-males have Y chromosomal material translocated onto the tip of one X chromosome (121). Translocation of a DNA-segment which contains the testis-determining gene ( SRY = Sex Determining Region Y) from the Y to the X chromosome takes place during paternal meiosis (122). The presence of the gene is sufficient to cause the initially indifferent gonad to develop into a testis. The breakpoints and consecutively the size and content of the translocation seem to influence the severity of the phenotype (123). Most SRY-positive patients are very similar to patients with Klinefelter syndrome. In general, however, 46,XX males are significantly shorter than Klinefelter patients or healthy men, resembling female controls in height and weight, which is in line with the recent view that the number of sex-chromosomes (most likely copies of the SHOX -gene) largely determines final height (96). The incidence of maldescended testes is significantly higher than that in Klinefelter patients and controls (124). The testes are small (1 - 4 ml) and firm,
