Primary Testicular Failure
KEYWORDS: testicular, patients, cell, male, chromosome, men, syndrome, arrest, spermatogenesis, klinefelter, failure, reprod, sperm, hum, normal


determines final height (96). The incidence of maldescended testes is significantly higher than that in Klinefelter patients and controls (124). The testes are small (1 - 4 ml) and firm, and endocrine changes of primary testicular failure with decreased serum testosterone and elevated estrogen and gonadotropin levels are observed. About every second patient develops gynecomastia. XX-males seem to have normal intelligence, however, exact data are lacking. Ejaculate analysis reveals azoospermia. The testicular histology of postpubertal SRY-positive XX males shows atrophy and hyalinization of the seminiferous tubules devoid of germ cells. In SRY -negative XX-males (about 20% of XX-males), mutations in SOX9, RSPO1 or other candidate genes may be responsible for the sex reversal, but these are very rare and the mechanism underlying the majority of cases currently remains unclear (125). SRY -negative XX-males are generally less virilized than SRY -positive men and may show additional malformations of the genital organs such as maldescended testes, bifid scrotum or hypospadias (126). Today, there is no therapy for infertility of men with XX-male syndrome. Patients with reduced testosterone production have to receive appropriate testosterone replacement therapy. XYY-Syndrome Most 47,XYY males have no health problems distinct from those of 46,XY males. The diagnosis relies entirely on the cytogenetic demonstration of two Y chromosomes with an otherwise normal karyotype. The non-mosaic chromosomal aneuploidy is caused by non-disjunction in paternal meiosis. Usually the finding is incidental, occurring when karyotyping has been undertaken for unrelated issues. The prevalence among unselected newborns appears to be 1:1,000. Men with 47,XYY-syndrome have serum levels of testosterone and gonadotropins, as well as testicular volumes, comparable to those of normal healthy men. Most men with 47,XYY-syndrome have normal fertility. Onset of puberty seems to be delayed by 6 months, adult height is 7 cm in excess of the male population mean. The intelligence quotient lies within the normal range, but men score an average of ten points less than age-matched peers. Behavioral problems are more common in 47,XYY males, however, a history of violent behavior is exceptional (127; 128). Most 47,XYY-men do not need any specific therapy. Men who achieve fatherhood can expect chromosomally normal offspring probably with the same likelihood as normal men. Nevertheless, to be safe, prenatal diagnosis can be offered. STRUCTURAL CHROMOSOME ABERRATIONS Structural chromosome abnormalities encompass alterations of chromosome structure that are detectable through light-microscopic examination of banded metaphase preparations as well as smaller, sub-microscopic deletions and duplications
