Primary Testicular Failure
KEYWORDS: testicular, patients, cell, male, chromosome, men, syndrome, arrest, spermatogenesis, klinefelter, failure, reprod, sperm, hum, normal


offered. STRUCTURAL CHROMOSOME ABERRATIONS Structural chromosome abnormalities encompass alterations of chromosome structure that are detectable through light-microscopic examination of banded metaphase preparations as well as smaller, sub-microscopic deletions and duplications that are only detectable with molecular genetics (e.g. array Comparative Genomic Hybridization, aCGH). Structural rearrangements such as Robertsonian translocations, that also imply a change in chromosome number, are also regarded as structural abnormalities. Structural anomalies of the autosomes are distinguished from anomalies of the sex chromosomes (gonosomes). Especially reciprocal and Robertsonian translocations, inversions, marker chromosomes, X and Y isochromosomes, and Y chromosomal deletions are of practical importance for andrology. When evaluating a structural chromosomal anomaly for clinical purposes, the distinction between balanced and unbalanced structural aberrations is pivotal. The former are characterized by a deviation from normal chromosome structure but without a net loss or gain of genetic material. If no important gene is disrupted at the breakpoints, balanced structural aberrations exert no negative effect on general health but may cause spermatogenic failure (oligo- or azoospermia) and independent of that, an increase in the risk for unbalanced karyotypes in the offspring (91; 129; 130). In unbalanced structural chromosomal abnormalities, genetic material is either missing or there is an overall net excess of material in the cell. Unbalanced chromosomal aberrations may be incompatible with life and lead to abortion or cause a broad spectrum of disease. Exceptions are deletions of the Y chromosome that may limit reproductive functions selectively, and are therefore of importance in reproductive medicine (see below). The majority of male individuals carrying structural aberrations is probably fertile and need no specific therapy. Conversely, men with impaired spermatogenesis show an increased prevalence of structural chromosomal abnormalities (129; 91; 92). Infertile patients with structural chromosomal aberrations may conceive naturally while more severe cases may require 'symptomatic' treatment modalities such as intracytoplasmic sperm injection, however, success rates may be lower than in couples with normal karyotypes (131). It should also be considered that unbalanced karyotypes of the embryo may result from balanced parental chromosomal anomalies (132). For any carrier of a structural chromosome abnormality who considers fatherhood by any means, genetic counselling is strongly recommended, and it should be obligatory prior to any infertility treatment (133; 134). It should be mentioned that in many countries karyotyping of men with idiopathic infertility and decreased sperm concentration is recommended prior to ICSI therapy although an evidence based screening threshold does not exist (135).
