Primary Testicular Failure
KEYWORDS: testicular, patients, cell, male, chromosome, men, syndrome, arrest, spermatogenesis, klinefelter, failure, reprod, sperm, hum, normal


that in many countries karyotyping of men with idiopathic infertility and decreased sperm concentration is recommended prior to ICSI therapy although an evidence based screening threshold does not exist (135). The risk of spontaneous pregnancy loss, congenital malformations regularly associated with developmental delay as a result of an unbalanced karyotype in the offspring, options of prenatal and preimplantation genetic diagnosis, and - for certain aberrations - the possibility that other family members are also affected should be discussed with the patient. Structural Aberrations of the Autosomes Balanced autosomal anomalies may interfere with the meiotic pairing of the chromosomes and thus adversely affect spermatogenesis. These abnormalities often do not display a typical clinical phenotype. The presence and extent of disturbed fertility cannot be foreseen in individual cases. The same balanced autosomal aberration can have a severe effect on spermatogenesis in one patient and none at all in another patient. Even brothers with the same pathological karyotype can have widely differing sperm densities. So far no clinical or laboratory parameter in an infertile male is known which reliably indicates the presence of an autosomal structural anomaly. Therefore, in cases of unclear azoospermia or (severe) oligozoospermia, karyotyping is generally advised (135). Translocations and other structural chromosomal aberrations can be either a de novo occurrence in the subject or inherited. Therefore, testing in family members should be encouraged, as the presence of a chromosomal aberration is regularly associated with a higher rate of abortion and the risk for the birth of a severely handicapped child. Structural Aberrations of Sex Chromosomes An intact Y chromosome is essential for the male reproductive system. The male-specific region of the Y chromosome (MSY) differentiates the sexes and comprises 95% of the chromosome length (136). The SRY gene is localized on the short arm of the Y chromosome and it influences differentiation of the embryonic gonad into the testicular pathway. The long arm of the Y chromosome contains areas responsible for establishing regular spermatogenesis. When speaking of deletions of the Y chromosome, those of the short and the long arm must be distinguished (137). Short arm deletions of the Y chromosome that encompass the sex determining SRY gene result in sex reversal. Clinically, affected subjects appear as phenotypically female individuals with somatic signs of Turner's syndrome. If the deletion affects the long arm, the phenotype will be male. Loss of the heterochromatic part of the Y chromosome's long arm
