Primary Testicular Failure
KEYWORDS: testicular, patients, cell, male, chromosome, men, syndrome, arrest, spermatogenesis, klinefelter, failure, reprod, sperm, hum, normal


individuals with somatic signs of Turner's syndrome. If the deletion affects the long arm, the phenotype will be male. Loss of the heterochromatic part of the Y chromosome's long arm (Yq12) leaves general and reproductive health unaffected. Deletions of the euchromatic part of the Y chromosome's long arm (Yq11) may affect spermatogenesis, because Yq11 harbors loci essential for spermatogenesis (136). In addition to deletions, a series of further structural anomalies of the Y chromosome are known. Pericentric inversions generally remain without consequence. An isodicentric Y chromosome is a more complex aberration nearly always occurring as a mosaic with a 45,X-cell line. The phenotype may be male, female or ambiguous. Patients with a male phenotype are usually infertile. These patients have an increased risk of developing testicular tumors (see Endotext.com, Endocrinology of Male Reproduction, Chapter 13: Testicular cancer pathogenesis, diagnosis and endocrine aspects). Reciprocal translocations between the Y chromosome and one of the autosomes are rare. In most cases, spermatogenesis is severely disturbed. However, several men with these aberrations have been reported as fertile. Translocations between the X- and Y-chromosomes occur in several variations; often the karyotype is unbalanced. The correlation between karyotype and clinical presentation is complex. The phenotype may be male or female; fertility may be normal or disturbed. The X chromosome contains numerous genes essential for survival. Every major deletion of this chromosome has a lethal or severe effect in the male sex. Translocations between the X chromosome and an autosome usually result in disturbed spermatogenesis, whereas inversions of the X chromosome do not substantially affect male fertility. Y CHROMOSOME MICRODELETIONS The human Y chromosome is not only the dominant sex determinator, but plays an essential role in the genetic regulation of spermatogenesis (138). The long arm of the Y chromosome contains three partially overlapping but discrete regions that are essential for normal spermatogenesis (136; 139). The loss of one of these regions, designated as AZF (azoospermia factor)a, AZFb (P5/proximal P1), AZFc (b2/b4), and AZFbc (with two variants differing in the proximal breakpoint: P5/distal P1 and P4/distal P1) can lead to infertility (136). The deleted regions are usually of submicroscopic dimensions and are known as Y chromosomal microdeletions. Their prevalence in azoospermic men lies between 5 - 10% and between 2 - 5% in cases of severe oligozoospermia (140). Clearly, the frequency of Y microdeletions is related to the criteria by which men have been selected (141; 142),
