Primary Testicular Failure
KEYWORDS: testicular, patients, cell, male, chromosome, men, syndrome, arrest, spermatogenesis, klinefelter, failure, reprod, sperm, hum, normal


and between 2 - 5% in cases of severe oligozoospermia (140). Clearly, the frequency of Y microdeletions is related to the criteria by which men have been selected (141; 142), whereas ethnic differences might exist as well (143). Deletions of the AZFc region represent about 80% of all AZF deletions (143). The type and mechanism of deletions have been recently clarified and result from homologous recombination between retroviral or palindromic sequences (144). The AZFc region includes 12 genes and transcription units, each present in a variable number of copies making a total of 32 copies (145). The classical complete deletion of AZFc (b2/b4 deletion), removes 3.5 Mb, corresponding to 21 copies of genes and transcription units (146). Even more gene copies are removed by more extensive deletions (7.7 Mb and 42 copies removed in P5/distal P1 deletions; 7.0 Mb and 38 copies removed P4/distal P1 deletions) (147). It remains unclear if any of the genes of the respective regions are indeed pathologically relevant. Clinically the patients present with severely disturbed spermatogenesis; endocrine testicular function may or may not be affected by the microdeletion as in other cases of spermatogenetic failure. Testicular histopathology varies from complete or focal Sertoli-cell-only syndrome (SCO) to spermatogenic arrest or hypospermatogenesis with qualitatively intact but quantitatively severely reduced spermatogenesis (148; 143). In azoospermic men, the presence of a complete deletion of AZFa seems to be associated with uniform germ cell aplasia (complete SCO), while a histological picture of SCO or spermatogenic arrest seems common in men carrying complete AZFb or AZFbc deletions. However, in exceptional cases, complete AZFb-deletions seem compatible with finding, albeit very few, spermatozoa (149; 150). Overall, the chances for successful sperm retrieval in carriers of complete AZFa as well as AZFb and AZFbc deletions has still to be considered virtually zero. On the other hand, men carrying complete AZFc deletions have severe oligozoospermia in about 50% of cases and in azoospermic carriers, successful TESE seems possible in about half of them (148; 151). No clinical parameter can help distinguishing patients with microdeletions of the Y chromosome from infertile men without microdeletion and, therefore, screening of all men with severe oligo- or azoospermia and without other causes is indicated (143; 135). It should be noted that Y chromosome microdeletions have also been described in proven fertile men (152). A positive result of the analysis, which should be carried out according to the standard recommended
