Primary Testicular Failure
KEYWORDS: testicular, patients, cell, male, chromosome, men, syndrome, arrest, spermatogenesis, klinefelter, failure, reprod, sperm, hum, normal


noted that Y chromosome microdeletions have also been described in proven fertile men (152). A positive result of the analysis, which should be carried out according to the standard recommended by the current guidelines (153), provides a causal explanation for the patient's disturbed spermatogenesis. Beyond this, the test also has prognostic value, as TESE is possible in about 50% of men with AZFc deletion and every son of such a patient will carry the paternal Y chromosomal microdeletion and thereby inherit disturbed fertility (154). Hence, genetic counseling is indicated for all carriers of Y chromosomal microdeletions (133; 148). Smaller deletions removing only part of the AZFc region have been identified as a polymorphism significantly associated with infertility, especially oligozoospermia (145). These so-called gr/gr deletions arise by the same mechanism (homologous recombination) and have been extensively studied in large groups of men in different countries. Overall, they are found in about 6.8% of infertile men but also in 3.9% of the controls and four meta-analyses have reported significant Odds Ratios, reporting on average 2-2.5 fold increased risks of reduced sperm output/infertility (55; 155–157). Although they represent a significant risk factor for male infertility, they should be regarded as a polymorphism and for the time being this type of diagnostics offers no advantage in male infertility workup. Concerns have been raised that a gr/gr (partial AZFc) deletion may expand to a complete AZFc deletion in the next generation and gr/gr deletions have also been reported as risk factor for testicular cancer (158; 159). Currently, however, no general agreement to advise routine testing has been reached (55; 157; 160; 153). OUTLOOK: NEW TECHNOLOGIES, NOVEL GENETIC CAUSES For many years, single candidate genes have been evaluated - usually by genotyping single nucleotide polymorphisms or sequencing - with the goal of identifying causal mutations for spermatogenic failure. Most of these approaches were, however, not successful most probably because 1) “male infertility” as well as “spermatogenic failure” are highly genetically heterogeneous and 2) selection of patient groups is often not stringent. Conversely, with the advances in genetic technologies, namely array-Comparative Genomic Hybridization (array-CGH) and whole-exome or even -genome sequencing, it is now possible to perform unbiased genome-wide analyses. These novel methodologies easily outperform the previous candidate gene approach which is illustrated by an increasing number of recent publications of so-called Copy Number Variations (CNVs), larger DNA regions that may be duplicated or deleted, as well as
