Endoscopic saphenous vein harvest for coronary artery bypass grafting
KEYWORDS: vein, patients, saphenous, saphenous vein, vein harvest, harvest, endoscopic, open, reported, treated, patients treated, open saphenous, patient, endoscopic saphenous, coronary


1 Recommendations 1.1 Current evidence on the efficacy and safety of endoscopic saphenous vein harvest for coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) is adequate to support the use of this procedure provided that normal arrangements are in place for clinical governance, consent and audit. 1.2 The National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research runs the UK Central Cardiac Audit Database (UKCCAD) and clinicians should enter details of all patients undergoing endoscopic saphenous vein harvest for CABG onto this database. 2 Indications and current treatments 2.1 Coronary artery disease refers to hardening and narrowing of the coronary arteries as a result of atherosclerosis. This can cause angina and myocardial infarction, and result in heart failure. One treatment option for coronary artery disease is coronary artery bypass grafting, which is normally done using autologous vein or arterial grafts. Vein grafts are most commonly done using the great saphenous vein. 2.2 The conventional method of harvesting the saphenous vein is an 'open' technique using 1 or more incisions in the leg. This technique may result in local complications including wound infection, dehiscence and persistent pain. Endoscopic saphenous vein harvest aims to reduce these problems by using much smaller incisions. 3 The procedure 3.1 The procedure is carried out with the patient under general anaesthesia, at the same time as coronary artery bypass grafting. An endoscope is usually inserted through a short incision near the knee, to visualise the subcutaneous plane in which the great saphenous vein lies. Carbon dioxide insufflation may be used to open this space. The vein is mobilised by blunt dissection and its tributaries are clipped and divided before removing the dissected segment of vein. The subcutaneous tunnel may be packed with an antibiotic-soaked swab, which is removed before wound closure. A compression bandage is applied to the leg to minimise haematoma. 4 Efficacy This section describes efficacy outcomes from the published literature that the Committee considered as part of the evidence about this procedure. For more detailed information on the evidence, see the overview. 4.1 A systematic review and meta-analysis of 44 studies including 269,474 patients reported no statistically significant difference in mid-term mortality between patients treated by endoscopic or open saphenous vein harvest for coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG; log-relative risk 0.90, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.79 to 1.03, p=0.12, median follow-up 22.5 months). A non-randomised comparative study of 4,709 patients treated by endoscopic or open saphenous vein harvest reported
