Biomédica 2025;45:369-89 Ehrlichia spp., Anaplasma spp. y Babesia spp. en el estado Bolívar
KEYWORDS: por, spp, los, las, que, garrapatas, ehrlichia, perros, anaplasma, infecciones, una, babesia, ehrlichia spp, del, por garrapatas


en las poblaciones humana y canina estudiadas. Palabras clave: anaplasmosis; ehrlichiosis; babesiosis; perros; enfermedades por picaduras de garrapatas; enfermedad de Lyme. Recibido: [DATE] Aceptado: [DATE] Infections by Ehrlichia spp., Anaplasma spp. and Babesia spp. In Puerto Ordaz, Publicado: [DATE] Bolívar, Venezuela Citación: Introduction. The prevalence of tick-borne infections remains unknown in most Latin Cermeño JR, Martínez OF, Tong PW, Penna SJ, Natera TY. Infecciones por Ehrlichia spp., Anaplasma American countries, including Venezuela. spp. y Babesia spp. en Puerto Ordaz, estado Bolívar, Objective. To estimate the prevalence of tick-borne infections in humans and dogs in Venezuela. Biomédica. 2025;45:369-89. Puerto Ordaz, Bolívar state, Venezuela. Materials and methods. An exploratory, descriptive, and prospective study was conducted Correspondencia: involving 181 individuals –who voluntarily agreed to participate and provided their written Salud “Dr. Francisco Battistini Casalta”, Avenida José survey was conducted, and venous and capillary blood samples were collected. Buffy coat Méndez, Ciudad Bolívar, Bolívar, Venezuela Teléfono: (+58) (0414) 761 3323 and blood smear tests were prepared and stained using Giemsa. Results. Tick-borne infections were detected in 85.1% (n = 154) of the participants. The most frequent infection was caused by Ehrlichia spp. (n = 153; 84.5%), followed by Babesia Contribución de los autores: spp. (n = 39; 21.5%), and Anaplasma spp. (n = 39; 21.5%). Women were the most affected Todos los autores participaron en la concepción y el diseño del estudio, en la recolección, el análisis y (n = 117; 64.6%), with ages ranging from 5 to 97 years. Among infected individuals, la interpretación de los datos, y en la redacción del 29.3% (n = 53) were co-infected with Ehrlichia spp. and Babesia spp., while 6.4% (n = 12) manuscrito. presented co-infection with all three pathogens under study. All the dogs (n = 10) presented tick-borne infections: 10 with Ehrlichia spp., 5 with Anaplasma spp., and 5 with Babesia Financiación: Los autores y líderes de la comunidad financiaron el spp. A statistically significant association was found between the presence of peridomestic estudio. ticks –favored by not walking the dog and having sick or elderly individuals– and tick-borne infections (p < 0.05). Conflicto de intereses: Conclusions. A high prevalence of tick-borne diseases is evidenced, both in the studied Los autores manifiestan no tener ningún conflicto de intereses. humans and dogs. Cermeño JR, Martínez OF, Tong PW, et al. Biomédica 2025;45:369-89 Keywords: Anaplasmosis; ehrlichiosis; babesiosis; dogs; tick-borne diseases; tick-borne diseases; Lyme diseases. Entre las enfermedades
