Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels in Patients with Covid-19 Infections
KEYWORDS: covid-, pubmed, patients, free, free article, levels, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, lipid, risk, infections, infection, lipoprotein


ABSTRACT Numerous studies have observed a decrease in total cholesterol, LDL-C, HDL-C, apolipoprotein B and A-I levels in patients with COVID-19 infections, similar to what is observed with other infections. In most studies the decrease in LDL-C and/or HDL-C was more profound the greater the severity of the illness. LDL-C and HDL-C levels were inversely correlated with C-reactive protein (CRP) levels i.e., the lower the LDL-C or HDL-C level the higher the CRP levels. Patients with low HDL-C and/or LDL-C levels at admission to the hospital were at an increased risk of developing severe disease compared to patients with high levels. With recovery from COVID-19 infections the serum lipid levels return towards levels present prior to infection. In patients that failed to survive, total cholesterol, LDL-C, and HDL-C levels were lower at admission to the hospital and continued to decline during the hospitalization. In patients with COVID-19 infections the serum triglyceride levels were variable. Lipoprotein (a) levels increase during COVID-19 infections. Several studies using the UK Biobank and other databases have shown that low HDL-C and apolipoprotein A-I levels measured many years prior to COVID-19 infections were associated with an increased risk of COVID-19 infections and death from infection while LDL-C, apolipoprotein B, lipoprotein (a), and triglyceride levels were not consistently found to be significantly associated with an increased risk. A 10 mg/dl increase in HDL-C or apolipoprotein A1 levels was associated with ∼10% reduced risk of COVID-19 infection. It should be noted that these observations are subject to the caveats of confounding variables and reverse causation affecting the results. Several studies have found that homozygosity for apolipoprotein E4/4 is associated with a 2-3- fold increased risk of COVID-19 infections and this increase was not due to dementia or Alzheimer’s disease. During the COVID-19 pandemic, diet, exercise, and lipid lowering therapy should be continued. For those who become symptomatic, lipid lowering therapy, if feasible, should also be continued throughout the duration of the illness. Individuals who are naïve to treatment but for whom lipid lowering therapy is indicated should be started on treatment. Randomized controlled studies have shown no benefits from statin therapy but small studies have suggested that PCSK9 inhibitors and omega-3 fatty acids may be beneficial. In patients with severe symptoms of COVID-19 who are too ill to take oral medications, lipid lowering medications may be temporarily suspended. Medications should be re-started when the patient has recovered and
