Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels in Patients with Covid-19 Infections
KEYWORDS: covid-, pubmed, patients, free, free article, levels, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, lipid, risk, infections, infection, lipoprotein


with severe symptoms of COVID-19 who are too ill to take oral medications, lipid lowering medications may be temporarily suspended. Medications should be re-started when the patient has recovered and is able to take oral medications. One needs to be aware that certain drugs that are used to treat COVID-19 infections may interact with lipid lowering drugs. Remdesivir and Paxlovid (nirmatrelvir and ritonavir) are metabolized by the Cyp3A4 pathway and statins that are also metabolized by this pathway should be avoided (atorvastatin, simvastatin, and lovastatin). For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), the cause of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), resulted in a world-wide pandemic and now remains a common cause of upper respiratory infections. The infection is spread through large respiratory droplets and fine respiratory aerosols. The majority of COVID-19 infections are either asymptomatic or result in only mild disease but in susceptible patients can lead to a respiratory illness requiring hospital care and respiratory support, which can have a fatal outcome. Older age, male gender, obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, immune suppression, and hypertension are some of the pre-existing factors that increase the risk of severe infection and death. LIPID ABNORMALITIES IN PATIENTS WITH COVID-19 INFECTIONS Background Patients with a variety of different infections (gram positive bacterial, gram negative bacterial, viral, tuberculosis, parasites) have similar alterations in plasma lipid levels. Specifically, total cholesterol, LDL-C, and HDL-C levels are decreased while plasma TG levels may be elevated or inappropriately normal for the poor nutritional status ( 1 - 12 ). Apolipoprotein (Apo) A-I, A-II, and B levels are also reduced ( 1 , 7 , 8 ). HIV, Epstein-Barr virus, and Dengue fever are viral infections that demonstrate these lipid alterations ( 13 - 15 ). The alterations in lipids correlate with the severity of the underlying infection i.e., the more severe the infection the more severe the alterations in lipid and lipoprotein levels ( 16 - 18 ). During recovery from the infection plasma lipid and lipoprotein abnormalities return towards levels present prior to infection. Of note studies have demonstrated that the degree of reduction in total cholesterol, LDL-C, HDL-C, and Apo A-I are predictive of mortality in patients with severe sepsis ( 19 - 26 ). Studies in Patients with COVID-19 Numerous studies have reported a decrease in total cholesterol, LDL-C,
