Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels in Patients with Covid-19 Infections
KEYWORDS: covid-, pubmed, patients, free, free article, levels, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, lipid, risk, infections, infection, lipoprotein


the development of disorders that affect TG levels (for example poorly controlled diabetes) could have confounded the TG results. Severe hypertriglyceridemia (TG > 500mg/dL) occurred in 33.3% of patients with COVID-19 associated acute respiratory distress syndrome treated with propofol compared to only 4.3% of patients with non-COVID-19 acute respiratory distress treated with propofol ( 59 ). Of note it has been reported that serum TG levels were elevated in patients with mild or severe infections but not in patients with critical illness (respiratory or multiple organ failure and septic shock) ( 31 ). In contrast, a study reported that TG levels were higher in patients that died from COVID-19 compared to patients that were critically ill or non-critically ill ( 53 ). In other studies, a severe outcome was associated with lower HDL-C levels and higher TG levels ( 55 , 60 ). However, a meta-analysis did not find that TG levels were associated with disease severity in patients with COVID-19 ( 58 ). NMR analysis in patients with severe COVID-19 infections revealed an increase in TG rich lipoprotein particles primarily due to an increase in the small and very small subfractions ( 47 ). Finally, a patient with a mild COVID-19 infection has been reported to develop marked hypertriglyceridemia due to transient inhibition of lipoprotein lipase activity presumably due to the development of autoantibodies against lipoprotein lipase similar to what has been reported in patients with autoimmune disorders such as systemic lupus erythematosus ( 61 ). Lipoprotein (a) (Lp(a)) levels increase during COVID-19 and appear to be associated with an increased risk of venous thromboembolism ( 62 ). It had been hypothesized that an increase in Lp(a) could contribute to some of the clinical abnormalities, such as thrombosis, seen during severe COVID-19 infections and these results support that hypothesis ( 63 ). While lipid levels return towards baseline following COVID-19 infections studies have reported an increased prevalence of dyslipidemia including increased total cholesterol, LDL-C, and TG levels and decreased HDL-C levels ( 64 , 65 ). This emphasizes the need to determine and follow lipid levels post infection. The potential mechanisms by which infections and inflammation alter lipid and lipoprotein levels and the consequences of these alterations are discussed in the Endotext chapter entitled “The Effect of Inflammation and Infection on Lipids and Lipoproteins” ( 66 ). Table 1. Effect of COVID-19 Infection on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels View
