Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels in Patients with Covid-19 Infections
KEYWORDS: covid-, pubmed, patients, free, free article, levels, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, lipid, risk, infections, infection, lipoprotein


in the Endotext chapter entitled “The Effect of Inflammation and Infection on Lipids and Lipoproteins” ( 66 ). Table 1. Effect of COVID-19 Infection on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels View in own window TG- Variable but tend to be normal or increased Total cholesterol- Decreased HDL-C- Decreased LDL-C- Decreased Small dense LDL- Increased Lp(a)- Increased Apolipoprotein A-I- Decreased Apolipoprotein B- Decreased DO PRE-INFECTION LIPID LEVELS PREDISPOSE TO SEVERE COVID-19 INFECTION? Background Numerous observational studies have suggested that low LDL-C and/or HDL-C levels increase the risk of developing infections and sepsis ( 67 - 79 ). Of course, it must be recognized that confounding variables could account for this association. For example, unrecognized diseases (for example pulmonary or gastrointestinal disorders) could result in decreased HDL-C and LDL-C levels and independently also increase the risk of infections and sepsis. Studies employing a genetic approach to epidemiology, which reduces the risk of confounding variables and reverse causation, have been used to investigate the relationship of lipid levels with the risk of infections and sepsis. In a study by Madsen and colleagues using two common variants in the genes encoding hepatic lipase and cholesteryl ester transfer protein that regulate HDL-C levels found in 97,166 individuals from the Copenhagen General Population Study that low HDL-C levels increased the risk of infection supporting the observational studies that low HDL-C levels increase the risk of infection ( 73 ). In studies by Walley and colleagues HMGCoA reductase and PCSK9 genetic variants that decrease LDL-C levels genetically were not associated with an increased mortality from sepsis suggesting that the observational studies linking low LDL-C with sepsis may have been due to confounding variables ( 77 ). In support of this contention a study demonstrated that low LDL-C levels were significantly associated with increased risk of sepsis and admission to intensive care unit, however, this association was found to be due to comorbidities ( 80 ). Finally, Trinder and colleagues using the UK Biobank data base (407,558 individuals) demonstrated that elevated levels of HDL-C and LDL-C were associated with a reduced risk of infectious disease related hospitalizations similar to prior observational studies while elevated levels of TG were associated with increased risk of infectious disease related hospitalizations ( 81 ). However, this study also employed a genetic approach and found that for genetically determined lipid levels, only increased HDL-C levels were significantly associated with a reduced risk of hospitalizations
