Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels in Patients with Covid-19 Infections
KEYWORDS: covid-, pubmed, patients, free, free article, levels, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, lipid, risk, infections, infection, lipoprotein


). However, this study also employed a genetic approach and found that for genetically determined lipid levels, only increased HDL-C levels were significantly associated with a reduced risk of hospitalizations for infectious disease and mortality from sepsis suggesting that HDL could be causally related to infections ( 81 ). Taken together these studies demonstrate that low LDL-C levels that are associated with an increased risk of infections are not likely to be a causal association while the low HDL-C levels that are associated with an increased risk of infection appears to be causal. This protective effect of HDL could be due to HDL particles binding lipopolysaccharide and lipoteichoic acid, compounds that mediate the excessive immune activation in sepsis or to the immunomodulatory, antithrombotic, and antioxidant properties of HDL ( 6 , 82 ). Additionally, HDL may have direct effects on viruses that decrease their infectivity by direct viral inactivation, interference with viral entry into the cell, or inhibition of virus-induced cell fusion ( 83 - 86 ). Finally, HDL has an antiviral effect against SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) ( 87 ). COVID-19 Infections Several studies using the UK Biobank and other databases have shown that elevated HDL-C and Apo AI levels measured many years prior to COVID-19 infections were associated with a reduced risk of COVID-19 infections while LDL-C, Apo B, Lp(a), and TG levels were not consistently found to be significantly associated with an increased risk ( 88 - 96 ). Hilser and colleagues found that a 10 mg/dl increase in HDL-C or apolipoprotein A1 levels were associated with ∼10% reduced risk of COVID-19 infection ( 89 ). In addition, an increased risk of death from COVID-19 infections was also inversely related to HDL-C and Apo A1 levels ( 89 ). Thus, there is consistent evidence that HDL-C and Apo A1 levels measured many years prior to COVID-19 play a role in determining the risk of developing COVID-19 infections. It should be noted that these were not genetic based analysis so these observations, as discussed above, are subject to the caveats of confounding variables and reverse causation effecting the results. Aung et al reported that genetically higher exposure to LDL-C was related to an increased risk of COVID-19 ( 91 ) and Zhang and colleagues reported that genetically determined higher total cholesterol and Apo B levels might increase susceptibility for COVID-19 ( 97 ). However, other studies found no evidence supporting
