Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels in Patients with Covid-19 Infections
KEYWORDS: covid-, pubmed, patients, free, free article, levels, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, lipid, risk, infections, infection, lipoprotein


and Zhang and colleagues reported that genetically determined higher total cholesterol and Apo B levels might increase susceptibility for COVID-19 ( 97 ). However, other studies found no evidence supporting an association of genetically induced increases in LDL-C and Apo B levels with an increased risk for severe COVID-19 infections ( 89 , 98 - 100 ). Hilser et al was also unable to demonstrate a link between genetically determined HDL-C and TG levels and COVID-19 infection risk ( 89 ). Others have also not been able to demonstrate a genetic link of HDL-C or TG levels with COVID-19 infections ( 100 ). However, a Mendelian randomization study found a causal effect of higher serum TG levels on a greater risk of COVID-19 severity ( 99 ). Lp(a) genetic risk scores were similar in COVID-19 infected patients and controls ( 96 ). Given the variability of results additional studies are required to determine whether LDL-C, Apo B, Apo A-I, HDL-C, or TG levels have a causal role in determining the risk or severity of COVID-19 infections. Several studies have found that homozygosity for Apo E4/4 is associated with a 2-3- fold increased risk of COVID-19 infections and this increase was not due to dementia or Alzheimer’s disease ( 89 , 101 , 102 ). Interestingly, in patients with HIV, Apo E4/4 is also associated with an accelerated disease progression and death compared with Apo E3/3 ( 103 ). Additionally, individuals who are Apo E3/4 have an increased inflammatory response to toll receptor ligands compared with patients who are Apo E3/3 ( 104 ). The mechanisms by which Apo E4/4 increase the risk of COVID 19 infections remain to be elucidated. LIPID LOWERING DRUGS and COVID-19 INFECTIONS Detailed information on cholesterol and triglyceride lowering medications is provided in the Endotext chapters entitled “Cholesterol Lowering Drugs” and Triglyceride Lowering Drugs” ( 105 , 106 ). Only information that is of unique importance with regards to lipid lowering drugs and COVID-19 infections will be discussed in this chapter. For a review of lipid lowering drug therapy in COVID-19 patients see “Managing hyperlipidaemia in patients with COVID-19 and during its pandemic: An expert panel position statement from HEART UK” ( 107 ). Statins Statins have pleiotropic effects, including decreasing inflammation and oxidative stress, improving endothelial function and immune response, and inhibiting the activation of coagulation cascade, all of which could be beneficial in patients
