Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels in Patients with Covid-19 Infections
KEYWORDS: covid-, pubmed, patients, free, free article, levels, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, lipid, risk, infections, infection, lipoprotein


have pleiotropic effects, including decreasing inflammation and oxidative stress, improving endothelial function and immune response, and inhibiting the activation of coagulation cascade, all of which could be beneficial in patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 ( 108 , 109 ). In contrast to these potentially beneficial effects, statins upregulate the ACE2 receptor, the receptor that the SARS-CoV-2 virus uses to enter cells, which could potentially increase the severity of the infection ( 108 , 109 ). Because of the possibility that statins could have beneficial effects on COVID-19 infections there have been a large number of observational studies comparing the severity of disease and/or mortality in patients taking statins vs. patients not taking stains. Most meta-analyses of these observational studies have found that statins reduce severity of disease and/or mortality ( 110 - 115 ). It should be appreciated that these observation studies have potential flaws and cannot definitively prove that statins are beneficial in COVID-19 infections. In several randomized trials statin therapy did not reduce disease severity or mortality compared to placebo ( 116 - 121 ). Interesting one meta-analysis of 7 randomized studies reported that statins reduced mortality by 12% ( 122 ), however other meta-analyses failed to find a benefit of statin therapy ( 123 , 124 ). It is worth noting that a meta-analysis of 7 randomized trials with 1720 patients that examined the effect of statins in sepsis (not COVID-19 infections) did not demonstrate any benefit compared to placebo ( 125 ). Taken together these results suggest that statin therapy is not likely to have a major beneficial effect on COVID-19 infections. However, the absence of harm from statin therapy in the COVID-19 observational studies and in the randomized trials makes it reasonable to continue statin therapy in COVID-19 infected patients for their well-recognized benefits on cardiovascular disease. One needs to be aware of potential drug interactions with statins and some of the drugs used to treat COVID-19 infections (see table 2 ) ( 107 ). Remdesivir is metabolized by the Cyp3A4 pathway and statins that are also metabolized by this pathway should be avoided (atorvastatin, simvastatin, and lovastatin) ( 107 ). With the antiretroviral drug, nirmatrelvir and ritonavir (Paxlovid), it is also recommended to avoid statins metabolized by the Cyp3A4 pathway (atorvastatin, simvastatin, and lovastatin) and use low dose rosuvastatin therapy ( 107 ). Tocilizumab by inhibiting IL-6 can increase CYP3A4 activity thereby reducing the LDL-C
