Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels in Patients with Covid-19 Infections
KEYWORDS: covid-, pubmed, patients, free, free article, levels, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, lipid, risk, infections, infection, lipoprotein


no information of the effect of these drugs on COVID-19 Infections. Interaction Between Drugs to Treat COVID-19 and Lipid Lowering Drugs The effect of various drugs that are used to treat COVID-19 infections and lipid lowering drugs are shown in table 2 . Because drug therapy for patients with COVID-19 infections is evolving one needs to be alert for the use of new drugs with potential drug interactions. Table 2. Interactions Between Drugs to Treat Covid-19 and Lipid Lowering Drugs View in own window Covid-19 Drugs Drug Interactions Nirmatrelvir and Ritonavir (Paxlovid) Contraindicated with drugs that are highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance and thereby increases levels of lovastatin, simvastatin, and atorvastatin. Also increases levels of rosuvastatin by a different mechanism but can use low dose. Remdesivir (Veklury) Metabolized by the Cyp3A4 pathway and therefore should avoid lovastatin, simvastatin, and atorvastatin. Molnupiravir (Movfor) No drug interactions Baricitinib (Olumiant) No drug interactions Tocilizumab (Actemra) Deceasing IL-6 can upregulate CYP3A and reduce the activity of lovastatin, simvastatin, and atorvastatin. Glucocorticoids No drug interactions Infliximab No drug interactions Abatacept No drug interactions Anakinra No drug interactions Vilobelimab No drug interactions MANAGEMENT OF HYPERLIPIDEMIA DURING THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC During COVID-19 infections diet and exercise should be continued as tolerated and there is no reason to stop lipid lowering therapy, except for potential drug interactions. Patients on lipid lowering therapy should continue to take their medications and patients who have indications for starting lipid lowering therapy should be started on therapy ( 107 ). This is particular important as studies have shown an association of myocardial infarctions with COVID-19 and other respiratory infections ( 134 - 139 ). In patients with severe symptoms of COVID-19 who are too ill to take oral medications, lipid lowering medications may be temporarily suspended ( 107 ). Medications should be re-started when the patient has recovered and is able to take oral medications. Liver function test abnormalities are frequently observed in patients with severe COVID-19 infections. If the alanine transaminase (ALT) or aspartate transaminase (AST) is greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal lipid lowering therapy should be stopped ( 107 ). Creatine kinase measurements should be considered when clinically indicated and in patients who are critically ill. It is recommended that statin therapy be stopped if creatine kinase rises 10-fold (generally to levels above 2000 IU/L) in asymptomatic patients or at a lower level of 5-fold
