Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


ABSTRACT Aggressive pituitary tumors (APT) refer to pituitary adenomas exhibiting radiological invasiveness and an unusually rapid tumor growth rate, or clinically relevant tumor growth despite optimal standard treatments. Pituitary carcinomas (PC) are defined by non-contiguous craniospinal or distant metastasis. PC is exceedingly rare, comprising only 0.1-0.4% of all pituitary neoplasms, whereas APT accounts for up to 15% of all pituitary neoplasms depending on the definition used. Typically evolving from known pituitary macroadenomas, APT/PC is most frequently diagnosed in the fifth decade of life, with corticotroph and lactotroph neoplasms predominating. Diagnosis relies on MRI, hormonal studies and histological assessment, including Ki67 index and immunohistochemistry for pituitary hormones and now also transcription factors. Structural and molecular mechanisms have been proposed in the pathogenesis of APT/PC, and the genetic basis of APT/PC development is a particularly growing field. TP53 , ATRX and SF3B1 variants are established somatic drivers in APT/PC, whilst the contribution of germline predisposition genes such as MEN1 and AIP is less certain. Treatment is multimodal, ideally delivered by an expert team with a high-volume caseload. Surgical resection may be performed with the aim of either gross total resection or tumor debulking. Radiotherapy may be administered either as fractionated external beam radiation or stereotactic radiosurgery. Standard pituitary medical therapies such as somatostatin analogues have limited efficacy in APT/PC, whereas temozolomide yields a clear survival benefit. Evidence is emerging for the use of peptide receptor radionuclide therapy, tyrosine kinase inhibitors, VEGF inhibitors, and immunotherapy. Avenues for further research in APT/PC include molecular biomarkers, nuclear imaging, establishment of an international register and routine pituitary tumor biobanking. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION AND DEFINITIONS Pituitary adenomas (PA; also referred to as pituitary neuroendocrine tumors, PitNET) are typically benign, slow-growing neoplasms originating from cells of the adenohypophysis ( 1 ). The revised 2025 European Society of Endocrinology (ESE) guidelines on APT/PC define aggressive pituitary tumors (APT) as invasive PAs that either demonstrate an unusually rapid tumor growth rate, or clinically relevant tumor progression despite optimal standard treatments in the form of surgery, radiotherapy and conventional medical therapies ( 2 )In the absence of reliable histopathological predictors of tumor behavior ( 2 ), APTs lack specific diagnostic criteria and are instead best considered a clinical composite of various pituitary neoplasms exhibiting clinically aggressive behavior. Efforts should be made to be as objective as
