Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


APTs lack specific diagnostic criteria and are instead best considered a clinical composite of various pituitary neoplasms exhibiting clinically aggressive behavior. Efforts should be made to be as objective as possible in diagnosing APTs ( 2 ). In order to address the absence of guidance on what constitutes “unusually rapid tumor growth”, a systematic review was conducted in the foundational work of the 2025 ESE guidelines. Among studies including mostly macroadenomas, followed conservatively for more than 12 months, the median tumor volume doubling time was more than 2 years. By consensus, the expert guideline committee defined rapid progression when tumor growth is seen within a 6-month time frame ( 2 ). While APT may demonstrate rapid growth this feature may not be present at disease onset with many APTs displaying years of relatively quiescent behavior before a period of more rapid progression ( 3 ). In assessing tumor refractoriness to treatment, postoperative recurrences should only be considered to reflect APTs when surgery was performed by an expert pituitary neurosurgeon with a high-volume caseload ( 4 ). Whether resection was intentionally limited because of reduced surgical fitness may also need to be considered. Intrinsic tumor resistance to medical therapy should be distinguished from inadequate dosing or poor compliance as well as drug toxicity, which is increasingly recognized in the setting of dopamine agonist (DA) treated prolactinomas ( 5 ). Concomitant aripiprazole, a partial DA, may also cause failure of DA therapy by outcompeting cabergoline at the dopamine D2 receptor (D2R) ( 6 ). Progression or recurrence after radiotherapy is more compelling than resistance to only surgical and medical therapy ( 7 - 9 ). APT is defined by clinical parameters rather than histopathological features per se . APT is distinct from the term ‘atypical pituitary adenoma’, which was defined by the historical 2004 World Health Organization (WHO) classification of endocrine tumors as PAs with a Ki-67 labelling index >3%, an elevated mitotic index and extensive p53 nuclear immunostaining ( 10 ). The term ‘atypical pituitary adenoma’ has been omitted in more recent iterations of the WHO classification of endocrine tumors as these criteria have not been clinically validated ( 4 , 11 - 13 ). Although some data show correlations between the 2004 WHO criteria and tumor behavior, the criteria do not consistently and independently predict tumor behavior in individual patients, with one study showing no difference in recurrence risk and
