Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


the 2004 WHO criteria and tumor behavior, the criteria do not consistently and independently predict tumor behavior in individual patients, with one study showing no difference in recurrence risk and disease-free survival in atypical PAs versus other PAs ( 14 ). Although most APTs are invasive ( 15 , 16 ), invasiveness alone is insufficient to define APTs ( 2 ), partly because invasion is often subjective with variability between radiological, operative and histological assessments ( 11 ). Moreover, highly invasive prolactinomas may respond well to DA therapy rather than following an aggressive clinical course. However, invasiveness is still considered a key component of aggressiveness. This was demonstrated by Trouillas et al in their 8-year follow-up study classifying tumors into 5 tiers: grade 1a, non-invasive and non-proliferative; 1b, non-invasive but proliferative; 2a, invasive but non-proliferative; 2b, invasive and proliferative; and 3, metastatic ( 16 ). Proliferation was defined as at least two of: Ki-67 ≥3%; p53 staining with >10 strongly positive nuclei/10 HPF; and mitotic count >2/10 HPF. Invasion was based on radiological or histological findings. Trouillas et al showed that, compared to non-invasive and non-proliferative PAs (grade 1a), the relative risk of persistent disease was 3.1 for non-invasive but proliferative PAs (grade 1b) versus 8.0 for invasive but non-proliferative PAs (grade 2a) ( 16 ). The impact of invasiveness and proliferation on tumor aggression was synergistic. Invasive and proliferative PAs (grade 2b) carried a 25-fold higher risk of persistent disease and a 12-fold higher risk of tumor progression compared to non-invasive and non-proliferative PAs ( 16 ). Progression-free survival is more influenced by the effect of invasiveness than that of proliferation ( 17 ), with a relatively greater prognostic effect from invasiveness in lactotroph and corticotroph PAs than other subtypes ( 16 ). At the extreme end of the spectrum, pituitary carcinoma (PC) or metastatic PitNET as per the recent 2022 WHO classification, is defined by non-contiguous craniospinal or distant metastasis. It should be noted that there are no histopathological features that distinguish carcinomas from APT without metastasis ( 13 ). EPIDEMIOLOGY Because of the lack of definitive diagnostic criteria, the prevalence of APT is unclear ( 2 ). Tumor recurrence and persistence, which are generally representative of APT, are more frequently seen in younger rather than older adults ( 16 , 18 , 19 ). PAs are overall uncommon in children but tend to be more aggressive in
