Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


90% respectively for the diagnosis of an APT, although aggressiveness is not invariable in grade 2b tumors ( 38 ). PATHOGENESIS As APTs represent a composite of different tumor subtypes, contributing pathogenic mechanisms are varied. Tumor persistence, recurrence and progression after surgery at least partly relate to greater invasiveness, lowering the chance of gross total resection ( 17 ). Cell-specific feedback sensitivity is also important. Resistance to medical therapy in somatotroph APTs may relate to reduced SSTR2 expression ( 39 ). The relative indolence of somatotroph PAs with apparent insensitivity of somatotrophs to loss of negative feedback during pegvisomant treatment contrasts sharply with the typically aggressive nature of Nelson’s syndrome following bilateral adrenalectomy with loss of endogenous cortisol feedback in corticotrophs ( 40 ). A somatic inactivating variant in the glucocorticoid receptor gene was found in one such case of Nelson’s syndrome ( 41 ). On the other hand, Cushing’s disease requiring bilateral adrenalectomy may reflect intrinsically more aggressive corticotrophinomas that drive the clinical course of disease, rather than adrenalectomy and loss of endogenous negative feedback being the underlying driver of progression ( 2 ). DA resistance in lactotroph APTs has been associated with decreased D2R density, overall reduction in D2R mRNA production, and altered expression of D2R mRNA isoforms with lower expression of the more efficient short isoform ( 42 ). A somatic truncating DRD2 variant has been described in a lactotroph APT ( 43 ), but DRD2 variants are not a consistent feature of lactotroph APTs ( 43 , 44 ). Cystic prolactinomas may also be associated with DA resistance ( 45 ). Hypothesized mechanisms of PC dissemination include: hematogenous spread through the anterior pituitary portal system into the cavernous and petrosal sinuses and finally the jugular veins; lymphatic spread via the sphenoid sinus or in the skull base and soft tissues by connections between the intracranial perineural space and lymphatic plexus; and cerebrospinal fluid seeding along the subarachnoid space of the neuroaxis ( 1 , 15 , 46 , 47 ). However, there have been no studies to our knowledge comparing the sites of metastases in pituitary neoplasms with cavernous versus sphenoid sinus invasion. Increased matrix metalloproteinase-9 expression in PC and its association with vascular density in PC suggest that extracellular matrix degradation contributes to angiogenesis ( 48 ). Matrix metalloproteinase activity may also promote local tumor invasion, including entry into deep brain structures along the Virchow-Robin
