Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


PC suggest that extracellular matrix degradation contributes to angiogenesis ( 48 ). Matrix metalloproteinase activity may also promote local tumor invasion, including entry into deep brain structures along the Virchow-Robin perivascular CNS spaces, resulting in non-contiguous cranial metastases ( 47 ). Iatrogenesis has been purported in select PC cases with intimately located metastases following trans-sphenoidal surgery ( 15 ), craniotomy ( 49 ), radiotherapy ( 47 ), and ventricular-peritoneal shunt placement ( 47 ). Hypotheses for the role of surgery in increasing PC risk include disruption of venous barriers intraoperatively and postoperative formation of friable new blood vessels ( 47 ). Radiotherapy has been postulated to increase tumor aggressiveness by inducing genetic variants, in TP53 for example ( 50 ). However, this theory is confounded by surgery and radiotherapy being employed in most patients with APT/PC during the typically protracted progression of PA to APT and finally to PC ( 1 , 47 ). Furthermore, the vast majority of operated and irradiated pituitary neoplasms never develop into PC ( 1 ), making iatrogenesis a highly unlikely cause of PC. The genetic and molecular basis of APT/PC pathogenesis is a rapidly developing field as recently reviewed by our group ( 51 ) and explored in detail in the following section. GENETICS Germline Genetic Contributions Germline variants of interest in PA predisposition genes are found in up to 20% of PA patients who are young and/or have other personal or family history of endocrine neoplasia ( 52 ). By contrast, the rate of such variants in the specific APT/PC setting is yet to be determined, although germline AIP and SDHx variants are typically associated with more aggressive tumor behavior ( 52 , 53 ). PC has been reported in patients with germline variants, including SDHB ( 54 ), MSH2 ( 55 ), and MEN1 ( 56 , 57 ). However, PC appears to be no more common in patients with germline MEN1 variants than in patients with sporadic PAs ( 58 ), and a recent systematic review found similar DA responsiveness between MEN1 -related prolactinomas and wild-type prolactinomas, although the certainty of evidence was very low ( 59 ). To the best of our knowledge, there have been no reports of PC in people with variants in AIP (causing familial isolated pituitary adenoma syndrome), CDKN1B (multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome type 4), PRKAR1A (Carney’s complex) or MAX (3P association syndrome: phaeochromocytoma, paraganglioma, PA),
