Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


- 69 ). The mean number of chromosomal imbalances per tumor is 1.6 in index PAs, 3.4 in recurrent PAs and 8.3 in PC ( 68 , 69 ). Aneuploidy was observed in all but one of the 15 PCs reported by Pernicone et al ( 15 ). The degree of genomic disruption is directly proportional to Ki-67 index ( 67 ). This progressive increase in CNV supports an adenoma-carcinoma sequence, as observed in other endocrine tumors such as pancreatic and adrenocortical neoplasms ( 69 ). Recurrent chromosomal aberrations in APT/PC include gains in chromosome 4q, 5, 13q and 14q and losses of chromosome 1p, 2, 8q, 10, 11, 12q, 13q and 15q ( 8 , 68 , 69 ). These chromosomes contain multiple genes implicated in APT/PC pathogenesis, as listed in Table 2 , although the underlying evidence for the causal involvement of these genes is limited owing to the rarity of PC and variability in genomic technologies. Emerging Somatic Genetic and Molecular Contributions Competing molecular models of APT/PC pathogenesis include a hyperplasia-adenoma-carcinoma sequence with accumulation of molecular alterations, versus clonal evolution of a subclone with genetic/epigenetic changes favoring cell survival, proliferation and ultimately metastasis ( 1 , 47 , 70 ). As most patients present with a long history of pituitary neoplasm ( 15 , 35 ), de novo malignant transformation of normal adenohypophyseal cells seems unlikely. There are, however, a few reported cases of rapid progression from pituitary neoplasm diagnosis to death ( 71 , 72 ). The frequent transition of PC from PA via an APT stage ( 1 , 47 ) suggests that pathogenic mechanisms may be shared between PAs, APTs and PCs. Although, whilst some genes like PTTG are overexpressed in PAs compared to normal pituitary tissue and in APTs compared to other PAs ( 73 ), other genes such as the RAS gene family appear to be largely limited to APT/PC development ( 74 , 75 ). There is emerging evidence for a role for classical cancer predisposition genes such as CHEK2 and mismatch repair genes in PA formation ( 76 - 78 ), but the relationship between these genes and APT/PC development per se requires further evaluation. Certain molecular events may be specific to the different elements of APT/PC pathogenesis. A transcriptome study of lactotroph tumors found different genetic changes in purely invasive tumors (upregulation of ADAMTS6 and CRMP1; downregulation of DCAMKL3
