Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


( 95 ) PTGS2 , prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2 (encoding COX2) Chr 1q31.1 Cyclo-oxygenase involved in angiogenesis Increased Cox-2 expression in PC ( 96 ) LGALS3 , lectin galactoside-binding soluble 3 (encoding GAL3) Chr 14q22.3* Galactose-binding lectin regulating cyclin-E-associated kinase activity Increased Gal-3 immunopositivity in corticotroph and lactotroph PC ( 97 ) HIF1A , hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha Chr 14q23.2* Transcription factor mediating cellular responses to hypoxia Increased HIF1A expression in PC ( 98 ) Abbreviations: * chromosomal loci that are frequently gained or lost in APT/PC. A particular gene of interest in the pathogenesis of APT/PC is MGMT , which maps to 10q26.3. Low MGMT expression is a common feature in APT/PC ( 33 , 91 ). It is also a frequent finding in patients with plurihormonal PIT-1 positive PA, Crooke’s cell PA, Nelson’s syndrome and recurrent non-functioning pituitary adenoma (NFPA), all of which exhibit more aggressive behavior ( 91 ). Low MGMT expression is in turn associated with upregulation of genes involved in transcriptional activity, DNA damage response and DNA repair ( 91 ). Interestingly, low MGMT expression in pituitary neoplasms does not correlate with MGMT promoter hypermethylation as it does in glioblastoma, suggesting that MGMT is inactivated by alternative, currently unknown mechanisms ( 4 , 9 , 91 ). A myriad of other molecular changes have been observed in APT/PC. As in other cancers, a role for telomerase in facilitating cellular immortality has been suggested with both Ki-67 and telomerase activity shown to increase with sequential resections of a lactotroph PC, whereas telomerase activity was absent in PAs ( 99 ). Increased immune tolerance may also be contributory, with reduced T-cell concentration, HLA-B downregulation and upregulation of genes involved in T-lymphocyte suppression shown in plurihormonal PIT-1 positive PAs ( 100 ). The role of T-lymphocytes in pituitary immune tolerance is underscored by the high rates of hypophysitis with the use of ipilimumab in other malignancies ( 101 ), and successful use of combined anti-CTLA4/PD1 therapy in a corticotroph PC ( 90 ). Changes have also been observed in microRNA, which are small non-coding RNAs that bind the 3’-untranslated regions of target mRNAs, thereby regulating post-transcriptional gene expression ( 102 ). In a study of lactotroph neoplasms, miR-183 was downregulated in APTs versus non-aggressive PAs and this was associated with increased expression of PCLAF , a gene inhibiting p53- and p21-mediated cell cycle arrest. miR-183 and PCLAF also correlated with Ki-67
