Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


). PC with more aggressive behavior earlier in disease course demonstrate higher Ki67 and a shorter time to develop metastases ( 36 ). Some symptoms, such as headache and visual field loss, overlap between PA and APT/PC, whilst cranial nerve palsies and obstructive hydrocephalus are more suspicious for APT/PC ( 108 ). Patients with Nelson’s syndrome, which is an inherently aggressive neoplasm, often present with mass effects including cranial neuropathies from the growing primary tumor as well as hyperpigmentation from proopiomelanocortin excess; distant metastasis may also occur ( 50 ). As in PA, arginine vasopressin deficiency (AVP-D, formerly known as cranial diabetes insipidus) is rare in APT/PC ( 46 ), and should raise suspicion for sellar metastasis from a non-pituitary malignancy ( 1 ). Important differential diagnoses are breast and lung carcinomas, which are the commonest primary neoplasms to metastasize to the sella ( 107 ). Small cell lung cancer can produce both ectopic ACTH syndrome and sellar metastasis, which may be misdiagnosed as a corticotroph PC with extrasellar metastasis ( 35 ). PC metastases may lead to other site-specific clinical features, such as hearing loss, ataxia, motor weakness, back pain, neck masses, and liver function derangement ( 1 , 53 ). Yoo et al showed the site of metastases to be craniospinal in 58%, systemic in 32%, and both craniospinal and systemic in 8% of PC cases ( 34 ). This is in contrast to an earlier series of 15 PC cases reported by Pernicone et al where metastasis was predominantly systemic (47%), compared to craniospinal metastases in 40% and both craniospinal and distant metastases in 13% ( 15 ). Common sites of metastasis include the brain (43%), spine (38%), liver (14%) cervical lymph nodes (11%) and bone (10%) ( 34 ). Within the CNS, metastases typically involve the cortex, cerebellum and cerebellopontine angle ( 46 ). In the ESE 2022 survey cohort, the CNS was the first location of metastatic disease in half of patients. Metastases to liver and bone were common among corticotroph tumors ( 36 ). Dural metastases may occur and be misdiagnosed as meningiomas ( 108 ). Rare metastatic sites include the orbit, endolymphatic sac, oropharynx, heart, pancreas, kidney, skin, ovary, myometrium and pelvic lymph nodes ( 1 , 15 , 34 , 108 ). EVALUATION The principles of APT/PC assessment are outlined in the 2025 ESE guidelines ( 2 ). As in PA, the
