Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


nodes ( 1 , 15 , 34 , 108 ). EVALUATION The principles of APT/PC assessment are outlined in the 2025 ESE guidelines ( 2 ). As in PA, the evaluation of patients with suspected or known APT/PC involves radiological, biochemical and histological investigations. Patients with APT should be followed indefinitely as the risks of recurrence and progression accumulate with time. In a study of NFPA, the prevalence of recurrent disease rose from 4.4% at 5 years to 10% at 10 years ( 8 ). Long-term follow-up also allows monitoring of late treatment-related complications such as radiation-induced hypopituitarism and secondary tumors, and the late development of PC which may occur decades following the initial diagnosis ( 4 ). Clinicians should be especially vigilant for metastases in patients with APTs ( 47 ), noting that metastasis often occurs insidiously and can involve various craniospinal and distant sites which may be mistakenly attributed to another primary neoplasm ( 4 ). Radiological Assessment Interpretation of imaging in this patient group should be undertaken by an expert neuro-radiologist. Detailed comparisons of serial scans are required to identify tumor progression and ideally reported in three dimensions, although comparison of the longest diameter in a 1D approach correlates well with 3D estimates ( 110 ). Following a new treatment, tumor response should be recorded according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria. The primary imaging modality in all pituitary neoplasms is MRI, which should include coronal T2, pre- and post-gadolinium thin (2-3 mm) sagittal T1, coronal T1, and axial T1-weighted sequences ( 2 ). The Knosp criteria which grades the relationship between tumor and the cavernous portions of the internal carotid artery on MRI can be used to identify overall radiological invasion ( 111 ), noting, however, that the criteria were originally developed specifically to predict the intraoperative finding of cavernous sinus invasion ( 112 ). PAs are generally considered radiologically invasive if the Knosp grade on MRI is 3 or 4 as this correlates with surgically confirmed cavernous sinus invasion in 38% and 100% cases, respectively, compared to 1% for grade 1 and 10% for grade 2 tumors ( 113 ). Serial MRI should be performed every 3-6 months as guided by previous growth rates, proximity to vital structures and timing of interventions ( 2 ). While known to be variable, the usual growth velocity (as indicated by tumor volume doubling times)
