Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


previous growth rates, proximity to vital structures and timing of interventions ( 2 ). While known to be variable, the usual growth velocity (as indicated by tumor volume doubling times) among patients with residual tumor following surgery, is a median of between 28-36 months ( 2 ). For NFPA, growth tends to be stable for a given individual with an initially exponential growth pattern followed by deceleration of growth velocity ( 114 ). Deviation from this with unusually rapid growth rates are an important marker of APT ( 4 ). Rapid corticotrophinoma growth following bilateral adrenalectomy is a specific hallmark of Nelson’s syndrome, which precedes metastasis in over two-thirds of corticotroph PC cases ( 1 ). Patients with APT and either discordant biochemical and radiological findings or site-specific symptoms should be screened for metastasis ( 2 ). Screening should also take place prior to commencement of chemotherapy ( 2 ) . In the absence of a formal staging system, patients with identified metastatic disease should undergo imaging by one or more modalities to define the extent of metastasis and to evaluate the possibility of a non-pituitary primary neoplasm ( 46 ). In patients with pituitary neoplasms and CNS symptoms, neck masses or back pain, pituitary MRI may be extended to include the whole brain and/or spine ( 1 ). For asymptomatic hormonal progression in the presence of stable sellar imaging, FDG-PET is probably preferred. CT imaging may be useful if bony involvement is suspected or in patients with contraindications to MRI ( 2 ). As PC is often hypermetabolic with somatostatin receptor (SSTR) expression including SSTR1, SSTR5 and SSTR2, nuclear imaging with 18 FDG-PET and/or 68 Ga-DOTATATE-PET may be valuable in delineating the overall extent of disease ( 47 , 115 ). DOTATATE-PET and FDG-PET may produce discordant but useful findings. For example, the presence of uptake on FDG-PET but not on DOTATATE-PET may indicate more dedifferentiated disease. Discordant avidity may be used to guide the selection of peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT) versus chemotherapy, although this approach has not been assessed ( 4 , 115 ). Biochemical Assessment Pituitary hormones should be measured every 3-6 months, as guided by tumor subtype, clinical features and treatment interventions ( 2 ) . This is imperative to identify secretory tumors responsive to medical therapies and hypopituitarism requiring hormone replacement ( 2 ). Hormone levels are also an invaluable tumor marker to guide
