Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


. This is imperative to identify secretory tumors responsive to medical therapies and hypopituitarism requiring hormone replacement ( 2 ). Hormone levels are also an invaluable tumor marker to guide treatment response in secretory tumors. Transition to APT/PC may be heralded by conversion of a silent PA to a clinically functioning tumor, loss of response to medical therapies, new or progressive hypopituitarism, or increasing hormonal excess despite radiological stability ( 1 , 4 , 35 , 53 ). Among the second ESE cohort, 39% of silent corticotroph tumors and 33% of silent somatotroph tumors became secretory at a median of 11 years following initial diagnosis ( 36 ). Similarly, an initial response to DA therapy followed by ‘escape’ was documented by Pernicone et al in 4/7 (57%) lactotroph PCs ( 15 ). Conversely, decreased hormone synthesis, reflecting tumor dedifferentiation, may also be a sign of tumor progression with declining serum levels of TSH and alpha-subunit reported at the time of metastasis in a thyrotroph PC ( 116 ). Another case report described a primary FSH-staining PA followed 15 years later by metastatic disease that stained negative for all pituitary hormones ( 117 ). This notion of tumor dedifferentiation may account for the increased aggressiveness of silent corticotrophinomas compared to functioning corticotrophinomas ( 108 ). Histological Assessment ASSESSMENT OF PROLIFERATION Despite abandonment of the 2004 WHO criteria for atypical PA and the lack of a pituitary neoplasm grading system in subsequent WHO classification systems, histopathology may be incorporated with clinical features to predict the trajectory of pituitary neoplasms ( 1 , 11 , 12 ). The 2025 ESE guidelines recommend performing IHC to evaluate transcription factors and pituitary hormones, and assessment of mitotic count, along with Ki-67 index and p53 immunostains ( 2 ). The Ki-67 labelling index is assessed by MIB-1 immunohistochemistry (IHC). As Ki-67 is a nuclear protein with suggested roles in ribosomal RNA transcription and chromosome separation ( 53 ), MIB-1 stains cells in the S (DNA synthesis) phase of the cell cycle and thereby represents the rate of cellular proliferation ( 1 ). Immunopositivity for p53 reflects nuclear accumulation of p53 ( 53 ). In other tumors, p53 immunostaining is related to TP53 variants that prolong the half-life of p53 and result in nuclear accumulation, although TP53 variants are rare in p53-immunopositive pituitary neoplasms ( 118 ). In addition, if pituitary-specific transcription factor IHC is not routinely
