Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


33 ). The unreliability of histological markers in predicting tumor behavior probably represents a combination of true biological variability between tumors given the observed variability in clinical features, as well as hampered histological assessment due to intratumoral heterogeneity, different fixation protocols, prior treatment effects, and antibody and interobserver variability ( 1 , 46 ). The European Pituitary Pathology Group (EPPG) recently proposed a detailed approach to the histopathological reporting of pituitary tumors ( 123 ). In regards to defining APTs, the EPPG endorsed the use of the 5-tier classification system developed by Trouillas et al that incorporates both histological/radiological invasion and measures of proliferation ( 16 ), on the basis of subsequent validation data supporting this system ( 17 , 124 , 125 ). In one recent international validation study, proliferative markers (Ki67, mitotic count) were found to be a more important predictive factor for aggressive behavior in an invasive pituitary tumor; invasion alone being associated with risk of recurrence ( 126 ). IHC for O(6)-methylguanine DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) should be considered in suspected or known APT/PC as low expression is another potential marker of aggressive behavior and may be predictive of temozolomide (TMZ) response; however, these associations are not invariable and the decision to use TMZ should not rest on this result alone ( 33 ). ASSESSMENT OF CELL LINEAGE Histopathological evaluation is important in identifying the more aggressive subtypes of pituitary neoplasms ( Table 1 ). Hormone IHC is critical in identifying silent corticotroph PAs and plurihormonal PIT-1 positive PA, whilst cytokeratin staining is used to define the dot-like fibrous bodies of sparsely granulated somatotroph PAs as well as patterns specific to Crooke’s cell and silent corticotroph PAs ( 1 ). Other histological features of sparsely granulated somatotroph PAs include poorly cohesive cells with sheet-like formation and nuclear polymorphism with weak and focal GH staining ( 24 ). Although transcription factor IHC, as recommended in the 2017 and 2022 WHO classifications ( 12 ), may assist identification of aggressive pituitary neoplasm subtypes, it does not directly predict aggressiveness ( 4 ). Transcription factor IHC is considered most valuable in the differentiation of hormone immunonegative tumors ( 53 ). For example, an IHC study including 119 hormone-negative PAs found that over one-quarter of hormone-negative tumors were in fact silent corticotrophinomas based on positive T-PIT staining ( 127 ). IHC for T-PIT is attractive given the greater aggressiveness of corticotrophinomas
