Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


that over one-quarter of hormone-negative tumors were in fact silent corticotrophinomas based on positive T-PIT staining ( 127 ). IHC for T-PIT is attractive given the greater aggressiveness of corticotrophinomas ( 33 ), but the availability of reliable T-PIT antibodies has been a concern ( 53 ). Nonetheless, the addition of transcription factor IHC is an attempt to overcome the false negative, misleadingly weak or dubious results that may be encountered with hormone IHC ( 11 ). The clinical implications of a null cell adenoma that stains negative both for pituitary hormones and pituitary transcription factors (approx. 5% of hormone-negative PAs) are currently uncertain as previous literature has rarely defined transcription factor status ( 127 ). Ultrastructural analysis is not additive to the contemporary pathological assessment of pituitary neoplasms by morphology and IHC ( 11 ). ASSESSMENT OF PITUITARY CARCINOMA Like PAs, PCs appear microscopically as well-differentiated neuroendocrine tumors. PCs may demonstrate hypercellularity, nuclear pleomorphism, necrosis, hemorrhage and invasion, with all such features overlapping with PAs ( 1 ). Neuronal metaplasia may rarely occur in PC ( 1 ). It is not possible to distinguish PC from PA on histological, immunohistochemical or ultrastructural grounds ( 1 ), and there is poor correlation between the histological and clinical features of PC metastases ( 47 ). The primary aim in the histological assessment of PC is instead to confirm a pituitary origin of metastases. Biopsy of apparent PC metastases is particularly important where another primary malignancy could explain the metastases, thereby influencing prognosis and management. Tissue diagnosis may be achieved by surgical biopsy or fine needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy of accessible sites such as cervical lymph nodes, liver, lung or vertebrae ( 47 , 107 , 128 ). Histological diagnosis based on FNA specimens should be cautious, given its divergence from pituitary histological diagnoses which are virtually always made by trans-sphenoidal surgical resection or craniotomy ( 107 ). Key differential diagnoses based on similar cytological appearances include metastasis from renal cell carcinoma, plasmacytoma/multiple myeloma, lymphoma, medullary thyroid carcinoma, and other neuroendocrine tumors ( 47 , 107 ). In PC, metastatic lesions should bear cytological resemblance to the primary pituitary tumor ( 107 , 128 ), noting that proliferative markers, particularly Ki-67, are often higher in metastases ( 15 , 47 , 108 ). Immunohistochemical stains for neuroendocrine markers such as chromogranin A and synaptophysin aid in the differentiation of PC from non-pituitary
