Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


often higher in metastases ( 15 , 47 , 108 ). Immunohistochemical stains for neuroendocrine markers such as chromogranin A and synaptophysin aid in the differentiation of PC from non-pituitary neoplasms ( 1 ). Hormone and pituitary-specific transcription factor IHC may also be helpful in suspected metastases from a pituitary neoplasm ( 128 , 129 ). To ensure the appropriate use of these histological investigations, the reporting pathologist should be notified of the potential for metastasis from a pituitary neoplasm and aware of the frequent latency between PA onset and PC development. The small possibility of dual concurrent metastatic malignancies should be considered where there is variability in the clinical, radiological or histological features of neoplastic lesions ( 107 ). Genetic Testing Given the lack of specific associations between germline variants in PA predisposition genes and APT/PC, development of an APT/PC is not an indication for germline genetic testing ( 2 ). Instead, germline genetic testing in individuals with APT/PC should follow typical indications as for non-aggressive PAs, including young onset disease and other personal or family history of related neoplasms ( 2 , 52 ). Somatic genetic testing, by contrast, may play a role in APT/PC evaluation. The revised 2025 ESE APT/PC guidelines suggest tumor testing for TP53 and ATRX in corticotroph macroadenomas, and TP53 and SF3B1 variants in lactotroph PAs with DA resistance, as finding variants in these genes may indicate poorer prognosis and hence warrant more intensive treatment and follow-up ( 2 ). However, these variants are not targetable by currently available medical therapies, and the prognosis of such tumors may be surmised from other features such as DA resistance and tumor size in addition to Ki67, degree of invasiveness and previous treatment requirements. Overall, the intensity of PA treatment and monitoring should be guided by all available clinical data ( 2 ). A promising emerging use of somatic testing in APT/PC is broad genetic and molecular testing to prioritize treatment options. The revised 2025 ESE APT/PC guidelines suggest molecular testing in individuals with tumor progression on temozolomide to guide potential treatment choices ( 2 ). For example, immune checkpoint inhibitors may be preferred in tumors exhibiting higher tumor mutational burden, mismatch repair gene variants or microsatellite instability as these findings portend a better response to immune checkpoint inhibitors in other neoplasms ( 130 , 131 ), although this is yet to be verified in the PA
