Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


instability as these findings portend a better response to immune checkpoint inhibitors in other neoplasms ( 130 , 131 ), although this is yet to be verified in the PA setting. Similarly, beyond the PA setting, combined inhibition of BRAF and MEK (e.g., dabrafenib/trametinib combination therapy) is employed in BRAF V600E-mutated unresectable or metastatic solid tumors in the absence of other treatment options ( 132 ). BRAF/MEK inhibitor therapy may therefore emerge as a targetable treatment option in APT/PCs bearing activating BRAF variants, although this accounts for only a very small subset of APT/PC ( 66 ). MANAGEMENT The key principle in the management of patients with APT/PC is for care to be directed by an expert multidisciplinary team. Multimodal treatment strategies are typically required. Surgery, radiotherapy and medical therapies all have a role in the management of APT ( Figure 1 ). Tumor location and size, the presence of single or widespread metastatic disease (in PC), prior surgery and extent of resection(s), previous radiotherapy and cumulative doses, optimization of standard medical therapies, past oncological treatments and patient comorbidities are all important considerations in formulating management plans. Figure 1. Treatment options in APT/PC. Surgical Management Patients with APT frequently require repeated neurosurgical procedures. In the first ESE survey cohort, patients underwent a mean of 2.7 operations while 29% had four or more pituitary operations over the course of their disease ( 33 ). Multiple studies now demonstrate improved outcomes and lower complication rates when pituitary surgery is performed by high-volume neurosurgeons ( 133 - 136 ). The likelihood of achieving gross total resection is consistently reduced in the presence of tumor invasion, particularly of the cavernous sinus, even in the most experienced hands ( 137 , 138 ). Endoscopic endonasal surgical techniques utilizing angled endoscopes and wide exposure may facilitate safe and more extensive surgical resection compared with trans-sphenoidal microsurgical approaches ( 139 - 141 ). In some circumstances where tumor extends to a significant degree into suprasellar or other extrasellar regions, a transcranial approach may be favored. However, the degree of resection may be limited by the risk of morbidity, depending on tumor location. Surgical resection, even as a debulking procedure, should be considered in patients with APT as it may offer significant relief of compressive symptoms, particularly when there is visual disturbance ( 142 , 143 ). In patients with isolated metastatic deposits (either craniospinal or systemic disease),
