Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


it may offer significant relief of compressive symptoms, particularly when there is visual disturbance ( 142 , 143 ). In patients with isolated metastatic deposits (either craniospinal or systemic disease), complete surgical excision may improve progression-free survival, particularly when followed by adjuvant radiotherapy ( 144 - 146 ). Repeat surgical resections of recurrent metastases may also prolong survival ( 15 ). An additional reason for additional surgery might be to facilitate acquisition of tumor sample for molecular testing in order to offer targeted treatment approaches or enrolment in clinical trials. Radiotherapy The use of radiotherapy should be considered in patients with APT as it may assist in long-term control of tumor growth ( 147 ). Radiotherapy is recommended in the setting of clinically significant tumor growth despite surgery, and in the case of functional tumors where standard medical therapy has been ineffective ( 2 ). In patients with PC, palliative radiotherapy may be delivered to sites of metastatic disease, but there is no evidence that it prolongs survival ( 147 ). Discussion about radiotherapy should take place within a multidisciplinary setting involving an expert radiation oncologist ( 2 ). The role of further debulking surgery prior to radiotherapy should be discussed. Radiotherapy applied to a smaller tumor volume is more effective, and removing tumor in close proximity to the optic apparatus may allow safer and improved radiotherapy delivery ( 4 , 148 ). In previously irradiated patients, consideration must be given to the cumulative radiation dose applied to the target region. In patients with invasive tumor remnants following surgery and where histological markers indicate the potential for aggressive tumor behavior (high Ki-67, particularly ≥ 10%; elevated mitotic count; increased p53 immunostaining), adjuvant radiotherapy should be considered ( 2 ). In the case of evident aggressive tumor behavior, combination radiotherapy and chemotherapy with TMZ may yield improved outcomes, although additional data are needed ( 33 ). Fractionated external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) and stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS, delivered as a single dose or in fractions) are both highly effective in the management of PAs. In one study of NFPAs, routine use of postoperative radiotherapy was associated with a doubling of 10-year progression-free survival compared with patients who did not undergo radiotherapy (93% vs. 47% ) ( 149 ). Success rates vary across studies because of different modalities (linear accelerators, Gamma Knife, proton beam irradiation) and variable techniques, doses and imaging protocols used
