Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


vs. 47% ) ( 149 ). Success rates vary across studies because of different modalities (linear accelerators, Gamma Knife, proton beam irradiation) and variable techniques, doses and imaging protocols used between centers ( 150 ). In APT, there are limited data on the effectiveness of radiotherapy and there are no controlled trials comparing fractionated EBRT and SRS. In a study of 68 patients with large residual or recurrent NFPA treated with fractionated SRT, local control rates were 97% and 91% at 5 and 10 years respectively ( 151 ). In the ESE second cohort, the majority of APT/PC demonstrated at least partial response or stable disease following radiotherapy ( 36 ). Another important consideration is the radiotherapy target volume and while not a common approach to date, a margin of 2-3mm around visible tumor may be considered to encompass surrounding tumor infiltration ( 2 ) . The response to radiotherapy may only be transient in more aggressive tumors or even ineffective, particularly in cases demonstrating progression despite salvage chemotherapy ( 33 ). The choice of radiotherapy technique and modality is ultimately based on safety considerations (e.g. proximity to the optic chiasm), volume of disease, and local availability ( 2 ). Adverse effects of radiotherapy delivered to the pituitary, such as hypopituitarism and secondary tumor risks, have rationalized the modern-day use of radiation therapy for pituitary tumors. However, considering the morbidity and excess mortality associated with APT, these adverse effects, particularly given their significant latency, should not preclude the prompt use of radiotherapy in APT. Peptide Receptor Radionuclide Therapy Pituitary neoplasms express somatostatin receptors and have demonstrated 68 Ga-DOTATATE uptake on PET/CT, stimulating interest in the use of PRRT in the management of APT ( 152 , 153 ). A variety of radionuclides have been utilized, including 111 Indium-DPTA-octreotide, 177 Lutetium-DOTATATE, 177 Lutetium-DOTATOC and 90 Yttrium-DOTATOC ( 4 , 154 ). A review of 19 PRRT-treated APT/PC cases was reported in the 2025 revised ESE guidelines. Partial response was seen in 4 patients (none had previous radiotherapy exposure) while stable disease was reported in 5 ( 2 ). A better effect was suggested with higher SUVmax as assessed by 68 Ga-DOTATATE uptake. PRRT failure in APT/PC may be associated with previous use of TMZ ( 155 ), with only one reported case of a successful PRRT response following prior TMZ treatment ( 156 ). Based on this preliminary evidence, PRRT should
