Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


use of TMZ ( 155 ), with only one reported case of a successful PRRT response following prior TMZ treatment ( 156 ). Based on this preliminary evidence, PRRT should be regarded as an investigational treatment for APT/PC that may induce a partial response. It should be considered only when conventional treatments including surgery and radiotherapy have been exhausted. The utility of PRRT should be reviewed on an individual basis in such cases, taking into account tumor uptake of the ligand and the suitability of alternative emerging therapies such as immune checkpoint inhibitors. Standard Medical Therapy APTs typically display resistance to the standard medical therapies commonly used in the management of functional PAs, although dose escalation may be helpful. In lactotroph APTs, use of maximally tolerated DA treatment should be attempted given occasional reported responses ( 157 , 158 ), with cabergoline (3.5-11mg per week) being more effective than bromocriptine or quinagolide ( 4 ). Temporary benefit from high-dose octreotide has been described in a case of thyrotroph PC ( 116 ). Aggressive corticotroph tumors represent a particular challenge, and these patients often require medical therapy to reduce hypercortisolism, a common direct cause of death ( 147 ). Adrenal glucocorticoid inhibitors, such as ketoconazole or metyrapone, are frequently used in such cases. Pasireotide has been reported in 15 cases of aggressive corticotroph tumors, including nine with Nelson’s syndrome, but with only one case exhibiting a hormonal and radiological response ( 4 , 159 ). Hypercortisolism may mitigate response to immunotherapy treatment if used, and close monitoring is required as adrenal insufficiency may rapidly occur in the setting of response to oncological therapies. DA-resistant lactotroph APT/PCs are also challenging, with limited medical options apart from TMZ. Pasireotide responses have been recently described in three patients with lactotroph APT: a 41-year-old woman who experienced prolactin normalization and tumor necrosis but without tumor shrinkage ( 160 ); a 61-year-old woman who experienced both prolactin normalization and tumor shrinkage ( 161 ); and a 55-year-old woman with a giant silent prolactinoma who experienced tumor shrinkage ( 162 ). Pasireotide is likely most useful in lactotroph APTs with high SSTR5 expression; however, less than 15% of prolactinomas express SSTR5 ( 162 ). Aromatase inhibitor therapy as well as tamoxifen have been used with limited success in males with resistant prolactinomas ( 163 , 164 ). Tamoxifen has been used unsuccessfully in lactotroph PC ( 4
