Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


as well as tamoxifen have been used with limited success in males with resistant prolactinomas ( 163 , 164 ). Tamoxifen has been used unsuccessfully in lactotroph PC ( 4 ). In rare cases of somatotroph PC, use of DA treatment has been associated with GH and IGF-1 reductions and symptomatic improvement, but without tumor shrinkage ( 29 , 165 ). Similarly, the use of first-generation somatostatin analogues in somatotroph APTs is largely ineffective, whereas pasireotide may improve biochemical control, although data in APT are scarce ( 166 ). Resistance to first-generation somatostatin analogues (octreotide, lanreotide) due to downregulation of SSTR2A expression has been described among AIP variant-positive individuals with somatotroph tumors, but expression of SSTR5 is often preserved and thus response to second-generation broader-spectrum somatostatin analogues, such as pasireotide, may be more effective ( 167 ). Chemotherapy WHEN TO INITIATE CHEMOTHERAPY In patients with PC, the decision to start systemic chemotherapy is clear and associated with improved survival ( 4 , 168 , 169 ). In patients with isolated metastases, loco-regional therapies such as hepatic chemoembolization for low-bulk liver metastases may offer temporary tumor control ( 170 ). For APT, in cases of documented tumor growth, other treatment options may be explored first, such as further surgery or radiotherapy if appropriate, and histological parameters such as Ki-67 or tumor subtype, may play a role in decision making. However, it is increasingly recognized that apart from the presence of metastases, there is little that distinguishes APT from PC ( 38 ). Most importantly, time to death following diagnosis of pituitary tumor is similar between APT and PC ( 33 ). Prior to the recognition of TMZ efficacy in APT, chemotherapy was typically reserved as salvage therapy because of poor response rates. The mean survival rate in the pre-TMZ era for PC was 1.9 years ( 46 ). APT and PC treated with TMZ are now reported to have 5-year overall survival rates of 57.4% and 56.2%, respectively ( 171 ). In a large French cohort, median survival was 44 months in patients who responded to TMZ compared with 16 months in non-responders ( 172 ). While TMZ is still most commonly used as a last resort therapy, it has been successfully employed during or prior to radiotherapy ( 33 , 173 ). In patients with rapid tumor growth where maximal doses of radiotherapy have not been reached, TMZ may be
