Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


successfully employed during or prior to radiotherapy ( 33 , 173 ). In patients with rapid tumor growth where maximal doses of radiotherapy have not been reached, TMZ may be combined with radiotherapy as per the Stupp protocol used for glioblastoma; however, the recent ESE 2025 guidelines advised that more clinical trial data are required before this could be formally recommended ( 2 , 174 ). Decisions must be made within an expert multidisciplinary team setting where risk-benefit ratios are carefully deliberated, taking into account the morbidities of repeated surgery or radiotherapy as well as the potential for rare long-term consequences of chemotherapy such as hematological malignancy ( 2 ). TEMOZOLOMIDE TMZ is recommended as the first-line chemotherapeutic agent for patients with APT/PC in the most recent ESE guidelines ( 4 , 33 ). There are no head-to-head comparison studies of TMZ to other treatment regimens, but response rates remain higher than other emerging therapeutic options. The overall response rate is 37-47% across larger cohorts, with complete responses (both biochemical and radiological) seen in approximately 5% of cases ( 4 , 33 ). Regarding stable disease as a clinically beneficial outcome, as frequently done in oncological studies, rates of progression-free survival are 50-87.6% in APT/PC ( 33 , 169 ). The first ESE survey reported a higher response rate among clinically functioning APT compared with non-functioning APT, but this was not the case in the second survey cohort ( 33 ). APTs are just as likely as PCs to respond to TMZ, although progression may be more frequent among tumors with Ki-67 ≥10% ( 33 ). TMZ is a second-generation imidotetrazine alkylating agent which, when hydrolyzed, forms toxic methyl adducts with DNA bases resulting in ineffective DNA repair and ultimately cellular apoptosis ( 175 ). TMZ is given as an oral outpatient-based chemotherapy, most commonly as monotherapy. Some centers advocate use of capecitabine pre-treatment (CAPTEM) because of in vitro data in neuroendocrine tumor cell lines suggesting synergistic effects with this regimen, although evidence supporting its superiority in APT/PC is lacking ( 27 , 176 ). Similarly, it has not yet been demonstrated that TMZ in combination with any other drug(s) has enhanced efficacy ( 2 ). However, where maximal doses of radiotherapy have not yet been reached in a patient, there is suggestion of improved response when TMZ is given concurrently with radiotherapy ( 3 , 4 , 33 ).
