Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


of radiotherapy have not yet been reached in a patient, there is suggestion of improved response when TMZ is given concurrently with radiotherapy ( 3 , 4 , 33 ). Experimental data strongly support a radiosensitizing effect of TMZ ( 177 , 178 ). The TMZ dosing regimen given for APT is 150-200mg/m 2 for 5 consecutive days every 28 days. It is generally well-tolerated, although mild to moderate fatigue, nausea and myelosuppression are common side effects, occurring in roughly half of patients but leading to TMZ discontinuation only in a minority ( 2 ). Prophylactic anti-emetics such as ondansetron are recommended for the 5 days of treatment per cycle ( 179 ). A dose reduction or delay in treatment cycles can allow patients to continue TMZ when myelosuppression occurs. Hemorrhage into cerebral metastases has been described in a patient with PC who developed severe thrombocytopenia ( 180 ). Hepatoxicity has been reported when TMZ was used concurrently with ketoconazole therapy, and cholestatic hepatitis has also been reported in association with TMZ treatment in the wider literature ( 181 , 182 ). To monitor for the risks of myelosuppression and hepatotoxicity, a complete hematological profile should be obtained on day 22 of each 28-day cycle and liver function tests should be performed at baseline, midway through the first cycle, prior to each subsequent cycle and within a month of treatment cessation ( 2 ). TMZ-induced hearing loss has been described among two pituitary cases and other rare side effects in non-pituitary literature include hypersensitivity pneumonitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome and hematological malignancies ( 4 ). Prophylactic trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole to protect against Pneumocystis pneumonia should be considered, particularly in the setting of active Cushing’s syndrome, high-dose glucocorticoid therapy, concurrent radiotherapy or significant lymphopenia ( 4 , 179 ). WHEN TO STOP TEMOZOLOMIDE Response to TMZ will be evident after 3 months of therapy ( 183 ). Treatment should cease in the event of progressive disease while receiving TMZ, or if serious adverse events occur. In the setting of tumor regression with TMZ, or disease stabilization, it is recommended to continue for 12 months, with continuation thereafter guided by efficacy and tolerability. However, treatment beyond 24 months must weigh up further benefit with potential risk of cumulative severe toxicity ( 2 ) . Early experience with TMZ duration of therapy in the APT/PC field was driven by protocols for glioblastomas; the duration of therapy in
