Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


of cumulative severe toxicity ( 2 ) . Early experience with TMZ duration of therapy in the APT/PC field was driven by protocols for glioblastomas; the duration of therapy in APT/PC remains a subject of debate. Following cessation of TMZ treatment in APT/PC, there is frequently a period of sustained remission. Among responders in the second ESE survey, the duration of TMZ effect (defined as time to next intervention) following TMZ discontinuation was 6.4 years in those with complete response, 3.3 years in those with partial response, and 1.4 years in those with stable disease ( 36 ). Whether longer treatment courses or degree of initial response improves progression-free survival is not currently clear. The median time to progression after TMZ cessation in the first ESE survey cohort was 12 months (range 1-60). Two patients exhibiting the longest time to progression were PC cases with complete response to TMZ ( 33 ). In the French multicenter cohort, patients receiving more than 12 months of TMZ achieved a median relapse-free survival of 57 months compared with 18 months in those receiving less than 12 cycles ( 172 ). However, response rates were 100% in those receiving longer treatment courses versus 75% in the shorter treatment group. Nevertheless, long-term treatment has been reported to be associated with improved progression-free survival of 61% compared to 16% for short-term treatment ( 171 ). In the recent ESE guidelines, it was proposed that in complete responders both hormonal and radiological treatment should be discontinued at 12 months. In those with partial response or stable disease, longer durations of treatment are on an individual basis, where assessment of ongoing tumor regression or clear slower growth rate compared to prior to TMZ need to be determined ( 2 ). The potential benefits of long-term TMZ treatment are tempered by the cumulative toxicity to bone marrow, especially given the relatively long survival of patients with pituitary tumors compared to other neoplasms treated with TMZ ( 111 ). Among published pituitary cases, there has been a case of acute myeloid leukemia occurring after 18 months of TMZ (and prior alkylating therapy) and another case of myelodysplastic syndrome in the setting of daily low dose TMZ for 18 months and a prior course of TMZ ( 184 , 185 ). DETERMINANTS OF RESPONSE TO TEMOZOLOMIDE The most established biomarker of the likely response to TMZ is MGMT expression. An endogenous
