Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


a prior course of TMZ ( 184 , 185 ). DETERMINANTS OF RESPONSE TO TEMOZOLOMIDE The most established biomarker of the likely response to TMZ is MGMT expression. An endogenous DNA repair protein, MGMT is responsible for removal of the methyl group induced by TMZ therapy. In the absence of MGMT, unrepaired methylated guanine (O6-MeG) lesions incorrectly pair with thymine, triggering activation of the mismatch repair pathway (MMR). Intact MMR results in futile attempts at repair via incorrect reinsertion of thymine opposite the O6-MeG lesion. Cycles of ineffectual repair eventually result in DNA strand breaks which lead to cell cycle arrest followed by either apoptosis or cellular senescence. If MMR function is lost, then paradoxically cells can survive. Even in the presence of intact MMR, MGMT can facilitate cell survival by direct repair of O6-MeG, targeting it for ubiquitination and degradation ( Figure 2 )( 186 ). Low expression of MGMT, as determined by IHC, is associated with a high TMZ response rate, at around 75%, while tumors with high MGMT expression are unlikely to respond ( 33 , 175 ). Low MGMT expression also predicts longer survival in patients with TMZ-treated APT/PC ( 187 ). In the 2022 ESE guidelines, evaluation of MGMT IHC by an expert neuropathologist was recommended ( 4 ). However, lack of standardized IHC technique, use of different expression criteria across centers, poor fixation methods, and tumor heterogeneity are among the challenges in assessment of MGMT IHC. Contrary to the glioblastoma setting, MGMT promoter methylation status has not been associated with TMZ response in pituitary neoplasms ( 175 , 188 ). Among the recent ESE guideline members there was concern around technical aspects and access to expert neuropathologists with experience in MGMT IHC. For these reasons, it is no longer recommended that routine MGMT assessment prior to TMZ initiation need be performed ( 2 ) . DNA mismatch repair proteins such as MSH6, MLH1, MSH2 and PMS2 may also play a role in response to TMZ. Loss of MSH6, in the presence of low MGMT, has been described as a mechanism responsible for the development of resistance to TMZ ( 189 ). However, given limited data, MMR protein expression is not currently recommended to predict TMZ response ( 2 ) .The overexpression of multidrug resistance proteins and activity of the Sonic hedgehog signaling pathway may also contribute to TMZ resistance ( 169 ). Figure 2.
