Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


TMZ response ( 2 ) .The overexpression of multidrug resistance proteins and activity of the Sonic hedgehog signaling pathway may also contribute to TMZ resistance ( 169 ). Figure 2. Temozolomide Cytotoxicity and Mismatch Repair Pathway. TREATMENT OPTIONS BEYOND TMZ There is a pressing need to identify alternative effective oncological therapies for patients progressing on TMZ or following an initial successful course of TMZ treatment. Given the paucity of treatment options, a second 3-cycle trial of TMZ treatment may be considered in patients who develop recurrence after a previous response to TMZ ( 2 ). However, a second treatment course may be effective in over half of patients, although this is usually less effective than the first course. Patients with late relapses after the initial TMZ course and tumors with low MGMT status appeared to have a better response to TMZ retreatment ( 179 ). Over the last few years there has been rapid growth in the use of molecular testing to guide treatment options and enrolment in clinical trials, increasingly in a tumor-agnostic space. In the recent ESE guidelines molecular testing has been recommended for patients with tumor progression on or following TMZ treatment ( 2 ). Given the preference for appropriate targeted therapies or a trial of immunotherapy, and lack of consistent responses to other systemic cytotoxic chemotherapies, the latter are no longer recommended unless all other avenues have been explored. Lomustine (CCNU) and/or 5-fluorouracil (5FU) have most commonly been employed, but multiple other drugs, alone or in combination, including cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, adriamycin, carboplatin/cisplatin, etoposide and vincristine have also been reported, with variable results ( 4 , 33 ). There is significant interest in the potential use of immunotherapy for the treatment of APT/PC. Combination treatment with ipilimumab (anti-CTLA-4) and nivolumab (anti-PD-1) was first reported by Lin et al to result in marked tumor shrinkage and hormonal response in a patient with a hypermutated corticotroph PC ( 90 ). Subsequently, Duhamel et al reported ipilimumab/nivolumab treatment with partial response in a patient with corticotroph PC and progressive disease in a patient with an aggressive prolactinoma ( 190 ). In the recent ESE guideline, three publications were identified that reported more than three APT/PC patients (total 25 patients) treated with immunotherapy. Partial response or stable disease was seen in 36% of cases, progressive disease in 64% ( 2 ). Recently, a small prospective trial using combination ipilimumab and nivolumab
