Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


with immunotherapy. Partial response or stable disease was seen in 36% of cases, progressive disease in 64% ( 2 ). Recently, a small prospective trial using combination ipilimumab and nivolumab in nine patients reported the best response of stable disease, commonly short-lived, in six patients ( 191 ). In the current landscape of limited therapies following TMZ progression, a trial with ICI seems reasonable in PC particularly in the setting of a high tumor mutation burden or variants in DNA mismatch repair genes which have been identified as possible biomarkers of response ( 2 ). Emerging studies of the immune microenvironment of pituitary neoplasms highlight the potential for gene expression data to identify which APT/PC will respond best to anti-CTLA-4 versus anti-PD-1 therapies ( 192 , 193 ). Targeted therapies offer some promise, but data on clinical effectiveness are lacking, and use should be within the context of a clinical trial. In vitro data demonstrating upregulation of Raf/MEK/ERK and PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathways in pituitary tumors have thus far not translated into clinical success in APT ( 33 , 194 , 195 ), apart from a single case report of partial response to everolimus in an aggressive prolactinoma ( 196 ). There has been limited use of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (lapatinib, sunitib, erlotinib), with one case report of a lactotroph APT exhibiting a partial response to lapatanib ( 197 ) and a subsequent phase 2 trial showing stable disease in 3/4 lapatanib-treated lactotroph APTs and progressive disease in the remaining case ( 198 ). VEGF-targeted therapy with bevacizumab or lapatinib, as monotherapy or in combination with TMZ, has produced mixed results from complete response to progressive disease ( 33 , 83 , 155 , 199 ). In the absence of a druggable target, clinical trial or limited access to ICI therapy, it might be reasonable to use VEGF inhibition therapy ( 2 ). PROGNOSIS Morbidity and mortality are increased in APT, even in the absence of progression to PC ( 4 , 38 ). This is particularly true in functioning corticotroph APTs, where morbidity and mortality are further increased in relation to cortisol excess ( 4 ). In the original ESE survey, mortality was higher in PC (43%) compared to APT (28%) ( 38 ), but median survival from initial diagnosis of pituitary tumor was similar (11 years in APT vs. 12 years in PC) ( 33 ). Significant separation in median
