Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


( 38 ), but median survival from initial diagnosis of pituitary tumor was similar (11 years in APT vs. 12 years in PC) ( 33 ). Significant separation in median survival was then seen in the second ESE survey, ranging from 17 years in APT to 11 years in PC ( 36 ). Time to death from PC diagnosis ranged from 7 days to 8 years in the study by Pernicone et al , with a 66% 1-year-survival ( 15 ). The mortality rate reported by Yoo et al was 55%, with an average time to death after PC diagnosis of just 10 months ( 34 ). Amongst all endocrine cancers, PC demonstrates the strongest age-dependent decline in survival ( 28 ). Prognosis is especially poor in patients with corticotroph PC, systemic metastases, or progression during TMZ therapy ( 1 , 15 , 33 , 200 ). By contrast, patients who respond to TMZ experience a clear survival benefit ( 172 ). Exceedingly long-term survival over several years has been observed in selected cases ( 8 , 15 , 27 ), even without TMZ ( 200 ), but predictive markers for such survival remain unknown ( 47 ). FUTURE DIRECTIONS Comprehensive molecular studies will hopefully refine the prediction of PAs that are destined to become APT/PC, and incorporation of new biomarkers into clinical practice will enable improved prognostication. Machine-learning tools may also emerge to help with risk stratification. Analysis of copy number variation is increasingly recognized as an important feature of APT/PC but translation into clinical practice is dependent on further research. Single-cell and spatial transcriptomic analyses should also help enlighten an understanding of pituitary tumor heterogeneity and behavior. Detailed methodological studies of tumor testing are required, particularly in relation to quantifying tumor mutational burden if this is to be clinically employed to identify candidates for immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy. In addition, improved clinical frameworks for access to somatic testing will be essential to realize the utility of biomarker research in APT/PC. In addition to molecular biomarkers, the growing sphere of nuclear medicine may prove useful in the assessment of PC, which currently lacks a standard method of staging. 11 C-methionine, a tracer with specific avidity for neoplastic pituitary tissue, has shown superior sensitivity to 18 F-FDG-PET in localizing functioning PAs ( 201 ). Though yet to be systematically studied in PC, 11 C-methionine holds promise in better delineating metastatic
