Aggressive Pituitary Tumors and Pituitary Carcinomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, apt, tumor, tumors, patients, endocrinol, aggressive, tmz, treatment, response, adenomas, expression, article pubmed, article


has shown superior sensitivity to 18 F-FDG-PET in localizing functioning PAs ( 201 ). Though yet to be systematically studied in PC, 11 C-methionine holds promise in better delineating metastatic disease. Integration of molecular, functional and clinical data may ultimately assist clinicians in better identifying tumors with the potential for more aggressive behavior. This will allow earlier and more proactive management in affected patients with the goal of improving prognosis. Therapeutic questions requiring further investigation include the optimal duration of TMZ therapy and improved clinical direction on when to introduce TMZ for individual patients with APT. ( 111 ). Early use of TMZ may be especially valuable in preference to radiotherapy in rapidly growing APTs ( 179 ), and in preference to both surgery and radiotherapy in frail patients with comorbidities ( 202 ). Clinical trials on the use of immune checkpoint inhibitors in APT/PC are ongoing ( 203 ). Combination therapies with the inclusion of TMZ also warrant investigation ( 179 ). Based on pre-clinical data regarding the pathways of pituitary tumorigenesis, future therapeutic avenues may include treatments that target BRAF , fibroblast growth factors, Notch and hedgehog signaling, and PTTG ( 199 ). Because of the rarity of PC and the diverse subtypes of APT, the current literature is plagued by small sample sizes. This is compounded by heterogeneous case mixes, short follow-up and clinical rather than histological diagnoses of PC metastases, with heavy reliance on expert opinion and local practice and a dearth of randomized controlled trials. An international registry for APT/PC would help address the multiple evidence gaps in these rare disorders ( 2 ). As APT/PC are almost invariably diagnosed retrospectively, routine pituitary tumor biobanking with methodical storage of tissue in media that circumvent formalin-induced DNA damage will be critical in studying pathogenesis. Waiting for metastasis before labelling a pituitary neoplasm as PC is particularly problematic, given the similar time-to-death from initial pituitary tumor diagnosis in APT versus PC ( 38 ). Efforts to address this have been the subject of much debate, such as adoption of the term ‘pituitary neuroendocrine tumor’ (PitNET) in favor of ‘pituitary adenoma’, as proposed by the International Pituitary Pathology Club and endorsed by the European Pituitary Pathology Group ( 53 , 123 , 204 ). The PitNET terminology has also most recently been supported by epigenomic data showing that PAs/PitNETs more closely resemble NETs (of lung, pancreas and enteric
