Chapter
KEYWORDS: surgical, care, surgery, dalys, costs, hospital, percent, services, conditions, countries, developing, burden, health, estimated, world


condi- book recognizes that surgical services may have a cost-effective tions will always account for a significant portion ofa popula- instance,McCord and Chowdhury 2003) show that basic hos- where conservative treatment is not readily available,where the pital service,which requires no sophisticated care,can be cost- incidence oftrauma and obstetrical complications is high,and (Murray and Lopez 1996). Some surgical procedures can 1,467,257,000 DALYs,to cataracts (0.56 percent),and all those certainly be perceived as forms ofsecondary or tertiary preven- DALYs are considered potentially surgical.Maternal conditions tion. Since the publication of the first edition of this book, (group I-C),perinatal conditions (group I-D),diabetes (group munity has recognized that the surgical management of some injuries (group III-A),to name a few,are much broader cate- common conditions can indeed be a cost-effective intervention gories of conditions for which the demarcation between the (Javitt 1993; McCord and Chowdhury 2003).The purpose of surgical and nonsurgical burden is not as clear as for cataracts. this chapter is to explore this hypothesis in more depth. Faced with a near total lack of pertinent data, we decided that the next best approach was to try to obtain consensus on a “best educated guess”for the surgical burden of each condi- Methods for Determining Burden of Surgical Disease tion. We developed a survey instrument that listed all the We have arbitrarily decided to define a surgical condition as possible surgical conditions (all potential surgical DALYs anycondition that requires suture,incision,excision,manipu- representing the maximum imaginable DALYs that could con- lation,or other invasive procedure that usually,but not always, ceivably be surgical).We sent the questionnaire to 32 surgeons requires local, regional, or general anesthesia. We prefer this in various parts of the world,asking them what was,in their definition for two main reasons, to one that would define opinion,the proportion of each condition that would require surgery as procedures performed by trained surgeons. First, surgery,which we have referred to as estimated surgical DALYs surgery does not have to be performed by qualified surgeons. or the conservative minimum. For each of the 18 completed Indeed,indeveloping countries with few doctors,nondoctors questionnaires, we discarded the two lowest and two highest can be trained to perform several types of operations satisfac- values for each condition,leaving a sample of 14 surveys.The torily. Second, we believe that the concept of surgery should lowest value ofthis sample was consistently chosen so as to err include minor surgical procedures that nurses or general prac- systematically on the conservative side.
