Chapter
KEYWORDS: surgical, care, surgery, dalys, costs, hospital, percent, services, conditions, countries, developing, burden, health, estimated, world


of survivable injury may be significantly comparedinordertoassesstheextenttowhichtheyaddressthe lessened by the provision ofadequate surgical care during pre- Evidencesuggeststhattheburdenof intentionalanduninten- from developing countries are available, however, either to tionalinjuriesisrising,particularlyinSub-SaharanAfricaand prove this plausible contention or to quantify the benefits of theMiddleEast.Someoftheimportantcontributingriskfactors adequate initial surgical treatment. A strategy to prevent include(a)agingpopulations;(b)increasedaccesstoanduseof chronic disability arising from survivable injury requires well- mechanizedvehiclesandtoolswithoutcommensurateimprove- coordinated services for resuscitation, evacuation, and early mentsinroads,trafficcontrolsystems,orcapacityfortrauma and expert operative management ofthe initial injury. care;and(c)persistentarmedconflicts(Kayaandothers1999; Many other surgical conditions that can be treated elec- Krug,Sharma,andLozano2000;Meyer1998;Mockandothers tively,such as hernias,hydroceles,and otitis media,are treated 1995,1999;NantulyaandReich2002;PedenandHyder2002). when they present with complications requiring emergency surgery. Thus, a pertinent question is whether treating such conditions electively would be more cost-effective,but no reli- INTERVENTIONS able data are available to answer this question positively or negatively. Both population-based strategies and personal sevices pro- Population-based strategies could also be applied to prevent consideredinthissection. incidence ofclubfoot is estimated at 1 or 2 per 1,000 live births, but in developing countries these children are typically brought in for orthopedic care when it is too late for effective nonsurgi- Population-Based Strategies cal conservative management (Ponseti 1996; Turco 1994). Population-based approaches to the prevention of uninten- Because we have no baseline data for the burden of clubfoot tional and intentional injuries are discussed in thechapters on and other musculoskeletal conditions, we are unable to 1248 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Haile T. Debas, Richard Gosselin, Colin McCord, and others quantify the DALYs that could be averted by comprehensive Table 67.4 shows the infrastructure requirements for this surgical care. type of hospital. Patients requiring more complex imaging The following sections describe the organization ofsurgical studies and laboratory tests would be referred to the tertiary services that we think would begin to provide coordinated sur- hospital. gical care in developing countries. The provision of surgical To the extent possible, all equipment and supplies services in developing countries requires organizational struc- (table67.4)shouldbestandardized,andanefficientandreliable ture and capacity at the level of community-based clinics, system for maintenance and replacement should be ensured. district hospitals, and tertiary care hospitals. Our concept of Operatingroominstrumentsandsuppliesshouldbeavailable minimally adequate modules of surgical care is informed by toenabletheperformanceoflaparotomy,thoracotomy,obstet- our personal experiences, the experiences of others, and a ricalandgynecologicalprocedures,treatmentofextremityfrac- recognize that to accommodate local needs and reality on the instrumentsshouldbeavailableatleastinduplicate.Table67.4 ground,any proposed plan to develop surgical services must be also shows workforce needs and the types of surgical proce- flexible. Table 67.4 presents our estimates of
