Chapter
KEYWORDS: surgical, care, surgery, dalys, costs, hospital, percent, services, conditions, countries, developing, burden, health, estimated, world


reality on the instrumentsshouldbeavailableatleastinduplicate.Table67.4 ground,any proposed plan to develop surgical services must be also shows workforce needs and the types of surgical proce- flexible. Table 67.4 presents our estimates of the needs for duresthatmaybeperformedinadistricthospital. and tertiary hospital. the community clinics in its own region as a single operating unit, assuming responsibility for wireless communication, training the workforce, providing continuing medical educa- Community Clinics tion,and monitoring the quality and outcome ofcare.It would Table 67.4 shows resource and workforce requirements and also provide primary care to its contiguous population. types of surgical services a community clinic could provide for a population of around 20,000. We assume that surgical Tertiary Hospitals services in community clinics would be provided at no cost to patients.A cost-recovery system would be unlikely to succeed The tertiary hospital would function as the referral center for everywhere but,ifimplemented,should be equitable,with pay- all complex surgical care in a region, country, or group of ments adjusted to patients’ ability to pay. A mechanism for countries. Ideally, but depending on the country’s resource accountability and monitoring should be established to avoid constraints, it would provide the full range of care shown in the misuse of drugs and supplies. Simple patient records table 67.4. The tertiary hospital would also provide primary should be maintained, including outcomes of treatment and surgical care for its local population and could take on the role here is what we think it should be as opposed to what we know workers. it to be,our model may serve the needs ofrural areas in devel- In the proposed organizational structure,the tertiary hospi- oping countries and could provide a starting point for estimat- tal is viewed as the top of a pyramid of surgical services,with ing costs. several district hospitals referring patients requiring complex the primary responsibility for coordinating and collaborating District Hospitals with all the district hospitals and community clinics in its The next level oforganization ofsurgical services is the district area of responsibility to ensure that surgical care is available local population would also provide secondary-level surgical munication and ambulance systems are available.Ifa regional- services and serve as a referral center for a number ofcommu- ized system ofseparate ambulance services is not available,the would ideally refer patients requiring complex surgical care to Specialists in the tertiary hospital should provide telephone cannot always be achieved in practice because of transporta- hospitals. The tertiary hospital should also coordinate and tion limitations,
