Chapter
KEYWORDS: surgical, care, surgery, dalys, costs, hospital, percent, services, conditions, countries, developing, burden, health, estimated, world


Nurses (50) Skilled birth attendant Midwives (2–3) Midwives (5) Orderly Anesthetists (2–3) Anesthetists (5) Anesthesiologist (1)b Anesthesiologists (3) Primary care physicians (4)c Primary care physicians (10) Obstetrician/gynecologist (1–2) Obstetricians/gynecologists (5) General surgeons (2) General surgeons (5) Pharmacy assistants (2) Orthopedic surgeon (1) Pharmacist (1)b Pharmacy assistants (2) Radiology technician (1) Pharmacist (1) Radiologist (1) Radiology technicians (5) Physiotherapist (1) Radiologists (2) Physiotherapists (5) Neurosurgeon (1)b Cardiac surgeonb Reconstructive surgeonb 1250 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Haile T. Debas, Richard Gosselin, Colin McCord, and others Table 67.4 Continued Category of requirement Community clinic 100-bed district hospital Tertiary hospital Services provided Simple suturing and dressing of Emergency abdominal, thoracic, head injury Full emergency service wounds Management of all complex general surgery Incision and drainage of abscesses Full range of services in orthopedics, trauma, urology, Care of simple burns Uncomplicated general surgical operations for otolaryngology, ophthalmology, and obstetrics and Control of hemorrhage hernias, anorectal conditions, and biliary tract disease gynecology Splinting Surgical infection treatment and control Basic (and, if resources permit, advanced) neurosurgery and cardiovascular surgery Deliveries Obstetrical (including surgery for complications) Intensive care services Vacuum extraction and manual Simple orthopedic care: extremity fractures, vacuum aspiration dislocations, and amputations Major burn service Burn care Radiology services including CT and MRI imaging and angiography Physiotherapy and occupational therapy Full service clinical laboratory Education and training Physiotherapy Occupational therapy Training of doctors, nurses, and midwives Source:Authors. represent what we think are minimally adequate. b. Desirable, but not absolutely necessary. c. Can be a general internist, general practitioner, or general pediatrician. structure is ideally suited for the tertiary hospital to serve as the from around the world.Associations such as the International backbone of community-based surgical education.The extent SurgicalAssociationcoulddevelopaWebportaltiedtonational to which this ideal function ofa tertiary hospital can be imple- surgical associations to ensure greater success in this regard. mented will depend on the financial and other resources avail- A regionalized system for the purchase and delivery of able to the country. equipment and supplies is highly desirable. Such a system could ensure that all equipment and supplies were standardized and made available on demand in an efficient and predictable Coordinated Model System for Surgical Care manner. The proposed system for surgical services requires the coordi- Ground ambulance services are essential for patient transfer. nation and integration ofthe following: In some areas, collaboration with local taxi or bus services might offer the needed support.
