Chapter
KEYWORDS: surgical, care, surgery, dalys, costs, hospital, percent, services, conditions, countries, developing, burden, health, estimated, world


the coordi- Ground ambulance services are essential for patient transfer. nation and integration ofthe following: In some areas, collaboration with local taxi or bus services might offer the needed support. In some more economically • wireless communication advanced countries,tertiary hospitals might be able to provide • continuing education programs ambulance services using fixed-wing aircraft or helicopters. • regionalized supply system for equipment,essential drugs, If the proposed model for a surgical system is to be devel- and surgical materials oped,systems for ongoing data acquisition and for evaluation • ambulance service and monitoring should be built into the model.In this way,not • uniform data collection system only could information be captured,but also the quality and • coordinated and ongoing monitoring of quality and out- outcomes ofcare could be monitored on an ongoing basis. comes ofcare. A wireless system of communication could render costly COSTS AND COST-EFFECTIVENESS wired systems unnecessary and could connect community clin- OFINTERVENTIONS ics,district hospitals,and tertiary hospitals in a dependable way that facilitates consultation and referral.A Web-based system of In today’s resource-constrained world,policy makers increas- communication could be particularly important for mentoring ingly need to be aware ofthe value ofselective health care inter- and for providing continuing medical education.The Web can ventions. Cost-effectiveness analysis is one method that links anesthesiologists, surgical specialists, nurses, and technicians along a common metric,usually using DALYs. Surgery | 1251 Even though an extensive body of literature examines the defined as treatment ofbruises,simple cuts requiring suturing, cost-effectiveness of a range of nonsurgical interventions in foreign body removal,drainage of abscesses,basic burn treat- developing countries (Jha, Bangoura, and Ranson 1998), the ment,normal deliveries,and simple trauma. literature examining surgical interventions in these countries is As far as possible,we used standardized regional cost esti- more sparse.Moreover,most of the available studies examine mates provided to the authors. When such information was surgical interventions for specific conditions (Marseille 1996; unavailable,we used our consensus judgment.Given the wide Singh,Garner,and Floyd 2000).A common criticism of such variation in costs between and within regions, we conducted studies is that they do not fully capture the choices policy mak- sensitivity analyses to capture the range of possible outcomes. ers face in real life. For example, policy makers must often When more than one source ofcost estimates was available,the choose between allocating resources for constructing several mean ofthe estimates for that region were used as the best esti- provide a mix of surgical and nonsurgical services.Generally, only a
