Chapter
KEYWORDS: surgical, care, surgery, dalys, costs, hospital, percent, services, conditions, countries, developing, burden, health, estimated, world


ofUS$19 to US$102) and most and 1 general surgeon);20 nurses;6 midwives;2 physiothera- expensive for Latin America and the Caribbean at US$94 pists; and 6 orderlies. The costs of an anesthetist and x-ray (range ofUS$47 to US$164). technician have been included in the operating costs of the Standard economic costs can differ from costs actually operating rooms and radiology area, respectively. The model incurredinservicedelivery,bothbecauseinpracticenotalltime that two-thirds ofinpatients will be surgical cases.1 economizeonstaffbecauserelativeshelpcareforpatients)and a facility of100 square meters serving a population ofapprox- paramedicalstaffmembersinplaceofprofessionals).Box67.2 1252 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Haile T. Debas, Richard Gosselin, Colin McCord, and others Table 67.5 Costing Assumptions for District Hospital and Community Clinic Category Assumptions and comments 100-bed district hospital 80 percent occupancy. Assumption: two-thirds of all cases seen are surgical and costs are adjusted accordingly. Operating rooms The estimate includes all operating room–related costs (surgeon, nurses, equipment, and so on). Assumption: the operating room is running for 8 hours/day, 5 days/week, 52 weeks/year. costs have been adjusted to reflect the percentage of surgical cases. Yearly costs have been adjusted to reflect the percentage of surgical cases. Pharmacy Assumption: all admitted patients will use US$10 worth of drugs during their stay. Yearly costs have been adjusted to reflect the percentage of surgical cases. Blood transfusion Assumption: 400 units of blood transfused/year. Ambulance The estimate includes 2 ambulances; 15 percent markup for freight, insurance, and distribution; US$500/year running costs added; ambulance depreciated over 9 years. Staff Nurses Assumption: nurses devote two-thirds of their time to surgical patients and costs have been adjusted accordingly. Midwives Assumption: midwives devote 100 percent of their time to surgical patients. Doctors These are the four doctors whose costs have not been included in the operating room costs listed above. Because they provide ward coverage, two-thirds of their costs are attributed to surgical patients. Physiotherapists Assumption: physiotherapists devote two-thirds of their time to surgery patients. Orderlies Assumption: six orderlies, each devoting two-thirds of their time to surgical activities. Community clinic Building costs The estimate includes costs of lighting and power. Assumption: building size is 100 square meters, 20-year straight-line depreciation is used; 25 percent of costs are attributed to surgical patients. Water supply Assumption: US$20 for water supply, of which 25 percent attributed to surgery. Supplies The estimate includes surgical trays, sterile and burn dressings, intravenous sets and cannulas, bandages, splints, and plaster of Paris for 4,000 patients. Assumption: local costs
