Chapter
KEYWORDS: surgical, care, surgery, dalys, costs, hospital, percent, services, conditions, countries, developing, burden, health, estimated, world


822 Orderlies 361 437 858 1,394 322 445 Total 43,240 43,635 44,895 48,136 42,345 42,928 Sources: All district hospital costs and community clinic building and staff costs: DCPP-2 guidelines; other community clinic costs: authors’ estimates. The type of surgical care provided at the community clinic per surgical DALY averted ranging between US$33 and level, though not resulting in a very large DALY gain, is $US38; Europe and Central Asia, Middle East and North nevertheless important.It is inconceivable to think of a com- Africa, and Latin America and the Caribbean seem to be the body removal,simple suturing of cuts and wounds,or splint- ing between US$77 and US$94; and EastAsia and the Pacific ing ofsimple fractures.Furthermore,community clinics’refer- falls in the middle. This finding indicates that, from the per- ate separately from the delivery of final treatment,are critical exceptional“buy”inSub-SaharanAfricaandSouthAsia,both for many conditions,notably trauma. areas with high disease burdens. Coupled with evidence that Costs per surgical DALY averted at the district hospital district hospitals are comparatively underfunded compared level seem to fall into three groups. Sub-Saharan Africa and withnational(tertiary)hospitals(Fiedler,Wight,andSchmidt South Asia are the cheapest, with the best estimates of cost 1999), a prima facie case exists for increasing support for 1254 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Haile T. Debas, Richard Gosselin, Colin McCord, and others Box 67.1 Estimation of the DALYs Averted by a Small Hospital in a Developing Country The DALY estimates in this chapter are based on a report Our estimates of the risk of death or serious disability from a 40-bed nongovernmental hospital in rural were based on tables McCord and Chowdhury created and Bangladesh in 1995 (McCord and Chowdhury 2003). were necessarily arbitrary, but we believe they are in one country,at one time,but it is the only analysis avail- able from such a hospital that estimates effectiveness using • Ifthe chance ofdeath or disability was less than 5 per- the disease burden.The hope is that other similar studies out-of-hospital deliveries had less than a 5 percent leads us to believe that the disease pattern presented to averted. small district hospitals in poor countries is remarkably • A cesarean section for obstructed labor was estimated constant,especially for surgical conditions. at 10 percent averted risk for the infant and 0 percent McCord and Chowdhury (2003) present the methods for the mother. for calculating DALYs in detail. They reviewed all dis- • A cesarean for transverse lie was estimated at
