Chapter
KEYWORDS: surgical, care, surgery, dalys, costs, hospital, percent, services, conditions, countries, developing, burden, health, estimated, world


0 percent McCord and Chowdhury (2003) present the methods for the mother. for calculating DALYs in detail. They reviewed all dis- • A cesarean for transverse lie was estimated at 90 per- charges and deaths every week for three months, con- cent averted risk for the infant and 90 percent for the firmedthedischargediagnosisbymeansofachartreview, mother. andestimatedthepercentagechancethatthehospitalstay • An appendectomy for nonruptured appendicitis was had prevented death or disability.The review covered all estimated at 10 percent averted risk, because many patientsdischarged,classifyingthemasmedical,surgical, cases ofappendicitis respond to antibiotics outside the charges, 62 percent were of surgical and obstetrical and • An appendectomy for a ruptured appendix with gynecologicalpatients.OftheDALYs,21percentofthose generalized peritonitis was estimated at 90 percent averted were for surgical patients and 61 percent from averted risk. obstetricalandgynecologicalpatients.Eighty-ninepercent • An elective herniorrhaphy for a small hernia was oftheestimatedDALYsavertedweregeneratedbyaverting estimated at 0 percent averted risk. prematuredeath,andonly11percentbypreventingseri- • A herniorrhaphy for a large, disabling hernia was ous disability. Of the 192 surgical operations, 118 were estimated at 80 percent averted risk. emergencies. Of 137 obstetrical patients, 81 had compli- • A herniorrhaphy for a strangulated hernia that did not cated deliveries, complications of abortion, or ectopic reduce with conservative management was estimated at pregnancies. 80 percent averted risk. Source:Authors. districthospitalsindevelopingcountries.However,thosepro- than 40 million people will be blind or almost blind because of viding such support have to be cognizant of realities on the cataracts (Brian and Taylor 2001).Box 67.3 describes a success- ground, especially political realities, because they have a sig- ful program in India. nificant effect on the direction of change (Blas and Limbambala 2001). Data on the cost-effectiveness of surgical interventions for specific conditions in developing countries are scarce. One RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AGENDA notable exception is for the surgical treatment of cataracts (removal ofthe opaque lens with or without the insertion ofan The literature on surgical care in developing countries is so intraocular implant).Blindness from cataracts is a significant meager that insufficient data are available to formulate an their populations age, estimates indicate that by 2020 more research that needs to be done is extremely basic,much of it Surgery | 1255 a. Community Clinic specific DALYs that can be averted by means of surgical intervention.WehaveappliedtheDALYsavertedfromasin- US dollars glestudyinadevelopingcountry(McCordandChowdhury 2003)tootherregions,aprocedurethatnegatesregionaldif- ferencesindiseaseincidence,healthcare–seekingbehavior, calculationofDALYsavertedshouldideallybeadjustedfor region-specificlifeexpectancyanddisabilityweights. • Estimation of costs,both at a facility and regional level,is 200 needed,including reducing variability in estimation meth- ods (Adam and Koopmanschap 2003).In addition,multiple estimates of costs are needed. For example, Mulligan and
