Chapter
KEYWORDS: surgical, care, surgery, dalys, costs, hospital, percent, services, conditions, countries, developing, burden, health, estimated, world


cataracts is linked to a spectrum of other in rural districts.Because ofthese efforts,cataract surgery equally important activities, including ongoing training nationally increased from 1.2 million surgeries in 1991–92 of surgeons, nurses, and administrators; reliable and to 2.7 million in 1996–97.Singh,Garner,and Floyd (2000) affordable supply chains; and equipment purchase and analyze the cost-effectiveness of publicly funded options maintenance. Source:Authors. CONCLUSIONS • in the surgical care of several elective conditions that have a significant effect on the quality of life, such as cataract, The inclusion of this chapter indicates the evolving apprecia- otitis media,clubfoot,hernias,and hydroceles. tion that surgery has a role to play in public health strategies. Previous concerns that surgery is a curative intervention Few published data are available to enable reliable estimates performed in expensive,high-tech hospitals precluded appreci- of either the burden of surgical diseases or the cost- ation of the potential role of surgery in public health. Public effectiveness ofsurgical treatments in a region-specific manner health specialists now recognize not only that surgery has a to help policy makers and voluntary groups.This area merits a preventive role, but also that surgical treatment provided in great deal ofattention in relation to research and development. low-tech community hospitals is cost-effective. In addition, a Nevertheless, the clear conclusion is that surgery must be significant number of surgical procedures,including cesarean considered a public health priority. sections and other abdominal operations, can be successfully performed by surgical technicians (Jamisse and others 2004; Pereira and others 1996). NOTES Surgery has an important role as a public health strategy in at least four areas: 1.This structure is based on the authors’personal experiences ofprac- ticing in developing countries.We have defined surgical casesto include deliveries and cesarean sections. • in the prevention ofdeath and chronic disability in injured 2.For example,operating room costs are based on the results ofa sin- patients by the provision oftimely,expert,and complete ini- gle study by Shepard and others (1993). tial surgical treatment • in the timely surgical intervention in obstructed labor, in pre- and postpartum hemorrhage,and in other obstetrical REFERENCES complications Adam,T.,and M.A.Koopmanschap.2003.“Cost-Effectiveness Analysis: • intheprovisionofcompetentsurgerytotreatawiderangeof Can We Reduce Variability in Costing Methods?”International Journal emergencyabdominalandnonabdominalconditions ofTechnological Assessment ofHealth Care19 (2):407–20. 1258 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Haile T. Debas, Richard Gosselin, Colin McCord, and others Armandola,E.2003.“Conference Report:Global Vaccines—What Are the Mock,C.N.2003.“Improving Prehospital Trauma Care in Rural Areas of Challenges? Highlights from the Viral Vaccine Meeting, October Low Income Countries.”Trauma54 (6):1197–98. 25–28,2003,Barcelona,Spain.”Medscape
