Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


mental health (for example, the onset of depression, anxiety or post- traumatic stress disorder), including signs indicating an increased risk of suicide (suicidality) such as suicidal thoughts, plans, actions and suicide attempts － the way the person is adjusting and coping after stroke － communication • impairment of body functions, including pain • activity limitations and participation restriction • environmental factors (social, physical and cultural). [2013, amended 2023] 1.2.4 When collecting information from people who have had a stroke on admission and discharge: • use valid, reliable and responsive tools including the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale and the Barthel Index • feed this information back to the multidisciplinary team regularly. [2013] 1.2.5 Take into account the impact of stroke on the person's family, friends and carers and, if appropriate, identify sources of support for them. [2013] 1.2.6 Inform the family members and carers of people after stroke about their right to a carer's needs assessment. [2013] Setting goals for rehabilitation 1.2.7 Ensure that people after stroke have goals for their rehabilitation that: • are meaningful and relevant to them • focus on activity and participation • are challenging but achievable • include both short- and long-term elements. [2013] 1.2.8 Ensure that goal-setting meetings during stroke rehabilitation: • are timetabled and held regularly • involve the person after stroke and, where appropriate, their family members and carers, in discussions. [2013] 1.2.9 During goal-setting meetings, ensure people after stroke are provided with: • an explanation of the goal-setting process • the information they need in a format that is accessible to them (in line the NHS accessible information standard) • the support they need to make decisions and take an active part in setting goals. [2013] 1.2.10 Give people copies of their agreed goals for stroke rehabilitation after each goal-setting meeting. [2013] 1.2.11 Review people's goals at regular intervals during their stroke rehabilitation. [2013] Planning rehabilitation 1.2.12 Provide information and support to enable the person after stroke and their family members and carers (as appropriate) to actively take part in developing their stroke rehabilitation plan. [2013] 1.2.13 Review stroke rehabilitation plans regularly in multidisciplinary team meetings. Time these reviews according to the stage of rehabilitation and the person's needs. [2013] 1.2.14 Ensure any documentation is tailored to the person after stroke and, as a minimum, includes: • the person's basic details, including contact details and next of kin • details
