Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


rehabilitation sessions, when appropriate (see NICE's guideline on patient experience in adult NHS services). [2023] 1.2.21 Make special arrangements for people after stroke who have communication or cognitive needs (for example, by holding joint speech and language therapy and physiotherapy sessions for those with communication difficulties). [2023] 1.2.22 When planning or delivering rehabilitation for people after they have left hospital: • check whether they will be at their own home or elsewhere after discharge (for example, a care home or the home of a family member) • ensure they will be able to travel from where they are currently living to attend sessions at the arranged time and location • take into account any travel needs or issues they may have and reassess these needs or issues if the person moves location (for example, back to their own home or to a care home). [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2023 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on intensity of stroke rehabilitation. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence reviews E1 to E5: intensity of rehabilitation. 1.3 Telerehabilitation 1.3.1 Consider telerehabilitation instead of, or as well as, face-to-face therapy, only if: • the person after stroke agrees to this approach or it is their preferred type of therapy and • it aligns with their rehabilitation goals. [2023] 1.3.2 Ensure that anyone taking part in telerehabilitation has, or when needed is provided with, the correct equipment (for example, a loaned laptop) and any training or technical support they need to use it. [2023] 1.3.3 Monitor people who are taking part in telerehabilitation to ensure they are: • benefiting from this method of delivering therapy and • are not developing symptoms or signs of depression. [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2023 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on telerehabilitation. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review G: telerehabilitation. 1.4 Providing support and information 1.4.1 Work with the person after stroke, and their family members and carers, to identify their information needs and how to deliver this information. Take into account any specific impairments such as aphasia (loss or impairment of the ability to use and comprehend language) and cognitive impairments. Pace the way information is given
