Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


information. Take into account any specific impairments such as aphasia (loss or impairment of the ability to use and comprehend language) and cognitive impairments. Pace the way information is given to allow time for the person to make an emotional adjustment. [2013] 1.4.2 Provide information about local resources (for example, leisure, housing, social services and voluntary organisations) that can help support the needs and priorities of the person after stroke and their family members and carers. [2013] 1.4.3 Review the person's information needs at their 6-month and annual stroke reviews, and at the start and end of any therapy. [2013] See the recommendations on continuity of care and relationships, tailoring healthcare services for each patient and enabling patients to actively participate in their care in the NICE guideline on patient experience in adult NHS services. For guidance on supporting informal carers, see NICE's guideline on supporting adult carers. 1.5 Cognitive functioning 1.5.1 Screen people after stroke for cognitive impairment. Where cognitive impairment is identified, carry out a detailed assessment using valid, reliable and responsive tools before designing a treatment programme. [2013] 1.5.2 Provide education and support for people after stroke, and their families and carers, to help them understand the extent and impact of cognitive impairment, recognising that these may vary over time and in different settings. [2013] Visual inattention 1.5.3 Use standardised assessments and behavioural observation to assess the effect of visual inattention (an inability to orient towards and attend to stimuli, including body parts, on the side of the body affected by stroke) on functional tasks such as mobility, dressing, eating and using a wheelchair. [2013] 1.5.4 Use interventions for visual inattention that focus on the relevant functional tasks, taking into account the underlying impairment. For example: • interventions to help people scan to the neglected side of their visual field, such as brightly coloured lines or highlighter on the edge of the page • using sounds to alert the person • repeating tasks such as dressing • using prism glasses to broaden the field of view. [2013] Memory function 1.5.5 Assess memory and other relevant domains of cognitive functioning (such as executive functions) in people after stroke, particularly where impairments in memory affect everyday activity. [2013] 1.5.6 Use interventions for memory and cognitive functions that focus on the relevant functional tasks, taking into account the underlying impairment. Interventions could include: • increasing the person's own awareness of
