Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


Use interventions for memory and cognitive functions that focus on the relevant functional tasks, taking into account the underlying impairment. Interventions could include: • increasing the person's own awareness of the memory impairment • enhancing learning using errorless learning and elaborative techniques (making associations, use of mnemonics and internal strategies related to encoding information such as 'preview, question, read, state, test') • external aids (for example, diaries, lists, calendars and alarms) • environmental strategies (using routines and environmental prompts). [2013] Attention function 1.5.7 Assess attention and cognitive functions in people after stroke using standardised assessments. Use behavioural observation to evaluate the impact of any impairment on functional tasks. [2013] 1.5.8 Consider attention training for people with attention deficits after stroke. [2013] 1.5.9 Use interventions for attention and cognitive functions after stroke that focus on the relevant functional tasks. For example, by minimising distractions and providing prompts related to the task. [2013] 1.6 Psychological functioning 1.6.1 Assess the person after stroke for changes to: • their emotional functioning, such as the onset of emotionalism • their behaviour • their mental health including the development of any signs that could indicate an increased risk of suicide (suicidality) such as suicidal thoughts, plans and actions, and suicide attempts • the way they are adjusting and coping after stroke. [2013, amended 2023] 1.6.2 When choosing any intervention for problems with emotional functioning, take into account the type or complexity of the person's neuropsychological presentation and relevant personal history. [2013] 1.6.3 Support and educate people and their families and carers to help them make an emotional adjustment after stroke, recognising that their psychological needs may change over time and in different settings. [2013] 1.6.4 When new or persisting changes to mood or emotional difficulties are identified at the person's 6-month or annual stroke review, refer them to appropriate services for detailed assessment and treatment. [2013] 1.6.5 Manage depression or anxiety in people after stroke who have no cognitive impairment in line with NICE's guidelines on depression in adults with a chronic physical health problem and generalised anxiety disorder and panic disorder in adults. [2013] 1.7 Fatigue 1.7.1 Consider a standardised assessment for fatigue in people after stroke in the early stage of their rehabilitation programme and at their 6-month stroke review. [2023] 1.7.2 Consider 1 of the following for the assessment: • the Fatigue Severity Scale • the Fatigue Assessment Scale • the Modified Fatigue
