Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


or battery-powered toothbrush if needed • use mouthwash and oral gels with antibacterial and antifungal properties, if needed. [2023] 1.10.3 Ensure that a suitably trained healthcare professional, family member or carer delivers or supervises mouth care for people after stroke who cannot, or find it difficult to, follow a mouth care regimen. [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2023 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on mouth care. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review J: oral hygiene interventions. 1.11 Swallowing 1.11.1 Assess swallowing in people after stroke in line with NICE's guideline on stroke and transient ischaemic attack in over 16s. [2013] 1.11.2 Provide information to people with dysphagia (difficulty in swallowing) after stroke, and their families and carers, on what the condition is and its risks. [2023] 1.11.3 Give families and carers information on how they can help someone who is coughing or choking while eating or drinking. [2023] 1.11.4 If the person has dysphagia and is unable to take tablets, review the need for the medication and, if it is still needed, change either its formulation or the route of administration. [2023] 1.11.5 Support people who have oropharyngeal dysphagia (OPD) to eat and drink as safely as possible, using 1 or more of the following methods (as advised by a dysphagia-trained healthcare professional): • adaptions to their physical position • modifying fluid intake (for example, taking small sips or drinking thickened fluids) • modifying their diet (for example, changing the texture of the food) • adapting the way food and drink is served (for example, serving food with different cutlery) • using compensatory strategies and manoeuvres appropriate for the person (for example, the Mendelsohn manoeuvre). [2023] 1.11.6 Offer behavioural exercises (for example, chin tuck against resistance) to people with OPD for at least 5 days per week. [2023] 1.11.7 Consider physical stimulation (for example, thermal or tactile stimulation) for people with OPD for at least 5 days per week. [2023] 1.11.8 Ensure people with dysphagia after stroke are supported in following an effective mouth care regimen, because this decreases the risk of aspiration pneumonia (see the section on mouth care). [2013] 1.11.9 Healthcare professionals with relevant skills and training in the diagnosis, assessment and management of swallowing disorders should regularly monitor and reassess people with dysphagia after stroke who
