Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


care). [2013] 1.11.9 Healthcare professionals with relevant skills and training in the diagnosis, assessment and management of swallowing disorders should regularly monitor and reassess people with dysphagia after stroke who are having modified food and liquid until they are stable (this recommendation is from NICE's guideline on nutrition support for adults). [2013] 1.11.10 Provide nutrition support to people with dysphagia in line with NICE's guidelines on nutrition support for adults and stroke and transient ischaemic attack in over 16s. [2013] 1.11.11 If the person with dysphagia is at risk of aspiration but wishes to eat and drink without the assistance of aids and interventions (such as the methods listed in recommendations 1.11.5 to 1.11.7 for people with OPD): • respect their choice (in line with NICE's guideline on patient experience in adult NHS services) and • follow the recommendations on putting shared decision making into practice and communicating risks, benefits and consequences in NICE's guideline on shared decision making. [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on swallowing. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review I: eating and drinking. 1.12 Communication 1.12.1 Screen people for communication difficulties within 72 hours of onset of stroke symptoms. [2013] 1.12.2 Each stroke rehabilitation service should devise a standardised protocol to screen for communication difficulties in people after stroke. [2013] 1.12.3 Refer people with suspected communication difficulties after stroke to a speech and language therapist for detailed analysis of any impairments and assessment of their impact. [2013] 1.12.4 Provide appropriate information, education and training to the multidisciplinary team to enable them to support and communicate effectively with people who have communication difficulties and their families and carers. [2013] 1.12.5 Speech and language therapy for people after stroke should be led and supervised by a specialist speech and language therapist working collaboratively with other appropriately trained people (for example, speech and language therapy assistants, carers and friends, or members of the voluntary sector). [2013] 1.12.6 Provide opportunities for people with communication difficulties after stroke to have conversations and social contact with people who have the training, knowledge, skills and behaviours to support them. This should be in addition to the opportunities provided by families, carers and friends. [2013] 1.12.7 Speech and language therapists should assess people experiencing severe communication difficulties after stroke
