Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


them. This should be in addition to the opportunities provided by families, carers and friends. [2013] 1.12.7 Speech and language therapists should assess people experiencing severe communication difficulties after stroke to see if they could benefit from using a communication aid or other technologies (for example, home-based computer therapies or mobile apps). [2013] 1.12.8 Consider a computer-based programme (or apps) tailored to individual goals and circumstances in relation to word finding, alongside face-to- face speech and language therapy. [2023] 1.12.9 Provide communication aids to people who could benefit from them after stroke and offer training in how to use them. [2013] 1.12.10 Tell people with communication difficulties after stroke about community-based communication and support groups (such as those provided by voluntary organisations) and encourage them to participate in them. [2013] 1.12.11 Speech and language therapists should: • provide individualised therapy for specific communication impairments such as aphasia or dysarthria (difficulty in articulating words) • help people after stroke to use and enhance their remaining language and communication abilities • teach other methods of communicating, such as gestures, writing and using communication props • coach those around the person after stroke (including family members, carers, and health and social care staff) to develop supportive communication skills to maximise the person's communication potential • help people with aphasia or dysarthria, and their families and carers, to adjust to communication impairment • support people with communication difficulties to rebuild their identity • support people to access information that enables decision making. [2013] 1.12.12 When persisting communication difficulties are identified at the person's 6-month or annual stroke review, refer them back to a speech and language therapist for detailed assessment, and offer treatment if they could benefit from it. [2013] 1.12.13 Help and enable people with communication difficulties after stroke to express their everyday needs and wishes, and support them to understand and participate in both everyday and major life decisions. [2013] 1.12.14 Ensure that environmental barriers to communication are minimised for people after stroke. For example, make sure signage is clear and background noise is limited. [2013] 1.12.15 Make sure that all written information (including that relating to medical conditions and treatment) is adapted for people with aphasia after stroke. This should include, for example, appointment letters, rehabilitation timetables and menus. [2013] 1.12.16 Offer training in communication skills (such as slowing down, not interrupting and using communication props, gestures or drawing) to those
