Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


for example, appointment letters, rehabilitation timetables and menus. [2013] 1.12.16 Offer training in communication skills (such as slowing down, not interrupting and using communication props, gestures or drawing) to those who regularly communicate with people who have aphasia after stroke. [2013] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2023 recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on communication. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review K: computer-based tools for speech and language therapy. 1.13 Movement 1.13.1 Provide physiotherapy for people after stroke who have weakness in their trunk or upper or lower limbs, sensory disturbance or balance difficulties that affect their movement. [2013] 1.13.2 People with movement difficulties after stroke should be treated by physiotherapists with the relevant skills and training in diagnosis, assessment and management. [2013] 1.13.3 Continue to treat people with movement difficulties until they are able to maintain or progress function either independently or with assistance from others (for example, rehabilitation assistants, family members, carers or fitness instructors). [2013] Strength training 1.13.4 Consider strength training for people with muscle weakness after stroke. This could include progressive strength building through increasing repetitions of body weight activities (for example, sit-to-stand repetitions), weights (for example, progressive resistance exercise), or resistance exercise on machines such as stationary cycles. [2013] Fitness training 1.13.5 Encourage people to participate in physical activity after stroke. [2013] 1.13.6 Assess people who are able to walk and are medically stable after stroke for cardiorespiratory and resistance training that is appropriate to their individual goals. [2013] 1.13.7 Cardiorespiratory and resistance training for people after stroke should be started by a physiotherapist who can give them instructions on how to continue the programme independently. [2013] 1.13.8 If people after stroke choose to continue with an exercise programme independently, ensure physiotherapists supply any necessary information about interventions and adaptations to the provider so they can make sure the programme is: • safe for the person and • tailored to their needs and goals. This information may be given through written instructions, telephone conversations or a joint visit with the exercise provider and the person, depending on the needs and abilities of both. [2013] 1.13.9 Tell people who are participating in fitness activities after stroke about common, potential problems, such as shoulder pain, and advise them to seek advice from their GP or therapist if these
