Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


people who are participating in fitness activities after stroke about common, potential problems, such as shoulder pain, and advise them to seek advice from their GP or therapist if these occur. [2013] Wrist and hand splints 1.13.10 Do not routinely offer wrist and hand splints to people with upper limb weakness after stroke. [2013] 1.13.11 Consider wrist and hand splints for people at risk after stroke (for example, people who have hands that are immobile due to weakness or high tone), to: • maintain joint range, soft tissue length and alignment • increase soft tissue length and passive range of movement • facilitate function (for example, a hand splint to assist grip or function) • aid care or hygiene (for example, by enabling access to the palm) • increase comfort (for example, using a sheepskin palm protector to keep fingernails away from the palm of the hand). [2013] 1.13.12 Ensure wrist and hand splints used by people after stroke are fitted by appropriately trained healthcare professionals, and a review plan is established. [2013] 1.13.13 Teach the person after stroke, and their family members and carers, how to put the splint on and take it off, care for it and monitor for signs of redness and skin breakdown. Provide a point of contact for the person if concerned. [2013] Electrical stimulation therapy for the upper limb 1.13.14 Do not routinely offer people after stroke electrical stimulation for their hand or arm. [2013] 1.13.15 Consider a trial of electrical stimulation therapy as part of a comprehensive rehabilitation programme for people who have evidence of muscle contraction after stroke but cannot move their arm against resistance. [2013] 1.13.16 Continue electrical stimulation therapy if the person's strength and their ability to practise functional tasks (for example, maintaining range of movement, or improving grasp and release) is found to be improving. [2013] 1.13.17 If a trial of electrical stimulation therapy is appropriate, ensure the treatment is guided by a qualified rehabilitation professional. [2013] Robot-assisted arm training 1.13.18 Do not offer robot-assisted arm training as part of an upper limb rehabilitation programme. [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2023 recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on robot-assisted arm training. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review M: robot-assisted arm training. Constraint-induced movement therapy 1.13.19 Consider constraint-induced movement therapy
