Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


section on robot-assisted arm training. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review M: robot-assisted arm training. Constraint-induced movement therapy 1.13.19 Consider constraint-induced movement therapy for people after stroke who have movement of 20 degrees of wrist extension and 10 degrees of finger extension. Be aware of potential adverse events (such as falls, low mood and fatigue). [2013] Repetitive task training 1.13.20 Offer people after stroke repetitive task training on a range of activities for upper limb weakness (such as tasks that involve reaching, grasping, pointing, moving and manipulating objects) and lower limb weakness (such as sit-to-stand transfers, walking and using stairs). [2013] Walking therapies and group circuit training 1.13.21 Offer walking training to people after stroke who are able to walk, with or without assistance, to help them build endurance and move more quickly. [2013] 1.13.22 Consider treadmill training, with or without body weight support, as an option for people after stroke who are able to walk with or without assistance. [2013] 1.13.23 In addition to one-to-one walking therapy for people after stroke who are able to walk, with or without assistance, consider a programme of group circuit training that: • includes an educational element (for example, advice on preventing falls) and • involves interaction with other participants to create an environment of peer support. [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2023 recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on walking therapies and group circuit training. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review L: circuit training for walking. Electromechanical gait training 1.13.24 Offer electromechanical gait training to people after stroke only in the context of a research study. [2013] Ankle–foot orthoses 1.13.25 Consider ankle–foot orthoses (devices that support or correct limb function) for people who have difficulty with swing-phase foot clearance after stroke (for example, tripping and falling) or stance-phase control (for example, knee and ankle collapse or knee hyper-extensions) that affects walking. [2013] 1.13.26 Assess the ability of the person to put on the ankle–foot orthosis or ensure they have the support needed to do so. [2013] 1.13.27 Assess the effectiveness of the ankle–foot orthosis for the person, in terms of comfort, speed and ease of walking. [2013] 1.13.28 Assessment for and treatment with ankle–foot orthoses should only be carried out as part of a stroke
