Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


guidance on managing neuropathic pain, see NICE's guideline on neuropathic pain in adults. For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2023 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on managing shoulder pain. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review O: shoulder pain. 1.15 Spasticity 1.15.1 Provide information on spasticity for people after stroke, and their families and carers, including details about what it is and what can make it better or worse. [2023] 1.15.2 Assess whether spasticity in people after stroke is focal (that is, it affects a specific limb or part of a limb) or generalised. [2023] 1.15.3 Discuss options for managing focal or generalised spasticity in the person after stroke with the multidisciplinary team. [2023] 1.15.4 Consider 1 or more of the following as part of a goal-directed plan to manage focal or generalised spasticity in people after stroke: • stretching the affected limb or limbs • splints, when needed (see the section on wrist and hand splints) • advice on identifying and managing triggers of spasticity. [2023] 1.15.5 For people who have focal spasticity of the upper limb after stroke, consider treatment with either Dysport at a dose of up to 1,000 units per treatment or with Xeomin at a dose of up to 400 units per treatment, unless they are already receiving a different type or dose of botulinum toxin A. Ensure that: • the dose is spread across appropriate injection sites in the affected limb and • people do not receive more than 1 treatment every 3 months and • response to the treatment is monitored and it is stopped if it is not effective. For people who are already receiving botulinum toxin A of a different type or dose, continue with this treatment if it is effective. [2023] 1.15.6 Consider a trial of NMES, functional electrical stimulation (FES) or transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) for people after stroke with focal spasticity. [2023] 1.15.7 Consider oral baclofen for people after stroke with generalised spasticity but monitor closely for adverse effects. [2023] 1.15.8 Refer people after stroke to a specialist spasticity service if: • they have ongoing spasticity that has not responded to treatment • other treatments are not tolerated • the person has complex needs in relation to spasticity (for example, if the injection is for small muscles or treatment
