Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


responded to treatment • other treatments are not tolerated • the person has complex needs in relation to spasticity (for example, if the injection is for small muscles or treatment is needed for spasticity-related pain). [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2023 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on spasticity. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review P: spasticity. 1.16 Self-care 1.16.1 Provide occupational therapy for people after stroke who are likely to benefit from it and to address difficulties with activities of daily living. Therapy may consist of restorative or compensatory strategies. • Restorative strategies may include: － encouraging people with hemisensory inattention (a difficulty in detecting or acting on information on 1 side of their personal space) to attend to the neglected side － encouraging people with arm weakness to use both arms － establishing a dressing routine for people with difficulties such as poor concentration, hemisensory inattention or dyspraxia (difficulty in planning and executing movement) which make dressing problematic. • Compensatory strategies may include training people how to: － dress one-handed － use devices such as bathing and dressing aids. [2013] 1.16.2 People who have difficulties with activities of daily living after stroke should have regular monitoring and treatment by occupational therapists with core skills and training in the analysis and management of activities of daily living. Treatment should continue until the person's condition is stable or able to progress independently. [2013] 1.16.3 Assess people after stroke for their equipment needs and to see whether their family or carers need training to use the equipment. This assessment should be done by an appropriately qualified professional. Equipment may include hoists, chair raisers and small aids such as long- handled sponges. [2013] Returning to work 1.16.4 Identify any return-to-work issues for the person as soon as possible after stroke. Review these regularly and manage them actively, for example by: • identifying the physical, cognitive, communication and psychological demands of the job (such as multi-tasking by answering emails and telephone calls in a busy office) • identifying any problems that affect work performance (for example, physical limitations, anxiety, fatigue preventing attendance for a full day at work, cognitive impairments preventing multi-tasking, and communication problems) • tailoring interventions (for example, teaching strategies to support multi- tasking or memory difficulties, teaching the use of
