Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


a full day at work, cognitive impairments preventing multi-tasking, and communication problems) • tailoring interventions (for example, teaching strategies to support multi- tasking or memory difficulties, teaching the use of voice-activated software for people with difficulty typing, and delivery of work simulations) • providing information about the Equality Act 2010 and support available (for example, an access-to-work scheme) • workplace visits and liaison with employers to make reasonable adjustments such as provision of equipment and phased return to work. [2013] 1.16.5 Consider a referral to a return-to-work programme for people who were working before they had a stroke. [2023] 1.16.6 Manage people's return to work or long-term absence after stroke in line with NICE's guideline on workplace health. [2013] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2023 recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on returning to work. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review H: community participation interventions. Self-management interventions NICE has made a recommendation for research about self-management interventions for people after stroke. For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on self-management interventions. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review F: self-management. 1.17 Long-term health and social support 1.17.1 Explain to people after stroke that they can self-refer, usually with the support from a health or care professional working in primary care (for example, a GP or a social prescriber) or named contact from the stroke rehabilitation service, if they need further help or support. [2013] 1.17.2 Provide information so that people after stroke, and their family and carers, can recognise the complications of the condition, including frequent falls, spasticity, shoulder pain and incontinence. [2013] 1.17.3 Encourage people to focus on life after stroke and help them to achieve their goals. This may include: • giving them information about voluntary organisations that can support them • helping them to participate in community activities, such as shopping, civic engagements, sports and leisure pursuits, visiting their place of worship and joining stroke support groups • supporting their social roles, for example, in work, education, volunteering, leisure activities, within their family and with sexual relationships • providing information about transport and driving (including DVLA requirements; see the UK Government's web page on stroke and driving). [2013] 1.17.4 Manage incontinence after
