Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


family and with sexual relationships • providing information about transport and driving (including DVLA requirements; see the UK Government's web page on stroke and driving). [2013] 1.17.4 Manage incontinence after stroke in line with NICE's guidelines on urinary incontinence in neurological disease and faecal incontinence in adults. [2013] 1.17.5 Review the health and social care needs of people after stroke, and the needs of their carers, at 6 months and then annually. These reviews should cover participation in activities of everyday life to ensure that people's goals are met. [2013] For guidance on the secondary prevention of stroke, see NICE's guidelines on cardiovascular disease, hypertension in adults, type 2 diabetes in adults and atrial fibrillation. For advice on involving people in decisions about prescribed medications and supporting adherence, follow NICE's guideline on medicines adherence. Community participation programmes 1.17.6 Consider referral for people after stroke, and their families and carers (if appropriate), to community participation programmes that: • are suited to the person's rehabilitation goals and • take into account their needs, views and preferences in line with NICE's guideline on patient experience in adult NHS services. [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2023 recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on community participation programmes. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review H: community participation interventions. Terms used in this guideline This section defines terms that have been used in a particular way for this guideline. Apraxia of speech Difficulty in controlling the muscles for speech because of damage to the brain, which can affect speech or changes in the rhythm or rate of speaking. Community participation programmes Programmes encouraging involvement in social activities that either take place outside the home or are non-domestic. They focus on providing education, support or practice in areas such as: • participation in peer support groups • political or civic roles • leisure activities like exercise, art or music • involvement in faith-based groups or organisations • education and learning • walking or using other means of transport, such as buses, mobility scooters or taxis • employment or voluntary work. Level 1 or 2 specialist inpatient neurorehabilitation unit Specialist rehabilitation services that are led or supported by consultants who specialise in rehabilitation medicine. Level 1 units are for people with highly complex rehabilitation needs who typically require longer
