Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


Specialist rehabilitation services that are led or supported by consultants who specialise in rehabilitation medicine. Level 1 units are for people with highly complex rehabilitation needs who typically require longer lengths of stay than other people in hospital after a stroke, such as those in level 2 units. They have a higher number of specialist staff with the expertise, as well as access to specialist facilities, to provide high-intensity rehabilitation that meets the needs of people admitted to these units. Level 2 units are for people who need more help, support and care from a rehabilitation team than they would get on a stroke unit but their needs are less than people who are normally admitted to a level 1 unit. Stroke unit An environment in which multidisciplinary stroke teams deliver care in a dedicated ward which has a bed area, dining area, gym, and access to assessment kitchens. Telerehabilitation Rehabilitation delivered remotely instead of face-to-face interaction between the person after stroke and the healthcare professional. Components can include interventions, supervision, education, consultations and counselling. This may be delivered in real time (synchronous) or with delay where immediate response is not required (asynchronous). Recommendations for research Key recommendations for research 1 Intensity of rehabilitation – therapy for 7 days a week What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of delivering rehabilitation for 7 days a week compared to 5 days a week for people after a stroke? [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on intensity of stroke rehabilitation. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence reviews E1 to E5: intensity of rehabilitation. 2 Intensity of rehabilitation – psychological therapy What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of more intensive cognitive and psychological therapy compared to usual care for people after a stroke? [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on intensity of stroke rehabilitation. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence reviews E1 to E5: intensity of rehabilitation. 3 Tool for assessing fatigue in people with communication difficulties For people after stroke with communication difficulties, what is the optimal tool for assessing fatigue? [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on fatigue. Full details of the
