Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


the optimal tool for assessing fatigue? [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on fatigue. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review B: optimal tool for fatigue. 4 Computer-based speech and language therapy What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of computer-based tools to treat problems with speech (dysarthria) and all domains of language (aphasia) for people with communication difficulties after stroke? [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on communication. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review K: computer-based tools for speech and language therapy. 5 Management of shoulder pain by cause For people with different causes of shoulder pain after stroke, what is the clinical and cost effectiveness of interventions in reducing pain? [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on managing shoulder pain. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review O: shoulder pain. Other recommendations for research 6 Tools for fatigue What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of the Fatigue Severity Scale, Fatigue Assessment Scale and Modified Fatigue Impact Scale in informing the management of fatigue in people after stroke? [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on fatigue. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review B: optimal tool for fatigue. 7 Handheld hearing screeners What is the clinical and cost effectiveness, and the diagnostic test accuracy, of using handheld hearing screeners to assess hearing in people after stroke? [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on hearing. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review D: optimal tool for hearing. 8 Prevalence of hearing problems What is the prevalence of hearing problems in people after stroke? [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on hearing. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review D: optimal tool for hearing. 9 Intensity of rehabilitation – swallowing therapy What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of more intensive
