Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


and the committee's discussion are in evidence review D: optimal tool for hearing. 9 Intensity of rehabilitation – swallowing therapy What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of more intensive swallowing therapy compared to usual care for people after a stroke? [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on intensity of stroke rehabilitation. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence reviews E1 to E5: intensity of rehabilitation. 10 Self-management interventions What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of self-management interventions for people after stroke? [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on self-management interventions. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review F: self-management. 11 Impact of telerehabilitation on cognition and mood What is the impact of telerehabilitation on cognition and mood for people after stroke? [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on telerehabilitation. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review G: telerehabilitation. 12 Swallowing – free water protocol What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of the free water protocol to support people with drinking after stroke? [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on swallowing. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review I: eating and drinking. 13 Swallowing – neurostimulation What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of neurostimulation (pharyngeal electrical stimulation, transcranial direct current stimulation, transcranial magnetic stimulation) to improve swallowing in people with oropharyngeal dysphagia after stroke? [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on swallowing. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review I: eating and drinking. 14 Swallowing – neuromuscular electrical stimulation What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) to improve oesophageal dysphagia after stroke? [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on swallowing. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review I: eating and drinking. 15 Swallowing – acupuncture What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of acupuncture to
