Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review I: eating and drinking. 15 Swallowing – acupuncture What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of acupuncture to improve swallowing in people with oropharyngeal dysphagia after stroke? [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on swallowing. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review I: eating and drinking. 16 Music therapy and interventions What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of music therapy for people after a first stroke or recurrent strokes? [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on music therapy and interventions. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review N: music therapy. 17 Diagnostic assessment to inform management of shoulder pain What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of diagnostic assessment to decide the choice of management for shoulder pain after stroke? [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on managing shoulder pain. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review O: shoulder pain. 18 Spasticity – acupuncture and electroacupuncture What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of acupuncture and electroacupuncture to treat spasticity in people who have had a stroke? [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on spasticity. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review P: spasticity. 19 Spasticity – botulinum toxin A What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of Botox, Dysport and Xeomin compared to each other and usual care for people with focal spasticity after stroke? [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on spasticity. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review P: spasticity. 20 Spasticity – electrotherapy What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES), transcutaneous electrical stimulation (TENS) and functional electrical stimulation (FES) compared to usual care for people who have spasticity after a stroke? [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on spasticity. Full details of the evidence and the
