Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


after a stroke? [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on spasticity. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review P: spasticity. 21 Groups that benefit from mirror therapy Which groups of people benefit from mirror therapy after stroke? [2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation for research, see the rationale section on mirror therapy for the upper or lower limb. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review Q: mirror therapy. Rationale and impact These sections briefly explain why the committee made the recommendations and how they might affect practice or services. Transfer of care from hospital to community, including early supported discharge Recommendations 1.1.8 and 1.1.11 Why the committee made the recommendations Qualitative evidence showed that rehabilitation support after hospital is sometimes withdrawn after a set period, even when the person feels this is too early and that they need more rehabilitation. The committee recognised this can make some feel abandoned but also that therapists' time is limited and must be used effectively. Weighing up these factors, the committee agreed that care and rehabilitation should be continued after hospital as long as they help people meet their rehabilitation goals. This will ensure therapy is not withdrawn too soon for those who still need it. The 2013 guideline recommended early supported discharge for some people. For the 2023 update, the committee looked at new evidence which found the process: • had the clinically important benefit of reducing physical dependency (the need for support with activities at home such as transfers, mobility and washing) as well as length of hospital stay • either improved, or had no negative impact on, health-related quality of life • reduced psychological distress. The evidence also showed no difference between early supported discharge and usual care in mortality, the person or carer's quality of life or the Caregiver Strain Index (which is used to assess carers' wellbeing), or to hospital readmission rates. An increase in falls, which is a clinically important harm, was seen in a limited number of studies. However, the committee noted this did not cause an increase in the rates of hospital readmission. The published evidence also suggested that early supported discharge was cost effective when compared to usual care. Qualitative evidence also found that people
