Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


increase in the rates of hospital readmission. The published evidence also suggested that early supported discharge was cost effective when compared to usual care. Qualitative evidence also found that people after stroke, their families and carers, and healthcare professionals saw early supported discharge as beneficial. They viewed it as an opportunity for the person to go home and be in a familiar setting sooner, and as a way of motivating the person by providing new challenges. They found it made no difference to the intensity of the therapy on offer (when delivered appropriately). In light of all the evidence in favour of early supported discharge, the committee agreed to retain the 2013 recommendations. The committee also noted that the way early supported discharge is offered and organised can still vary between settings. The evidence also found that the level of coordination between services can affect outcomes. Better coordination between all services involved in the care of people after stroke led to reduced mortality and levels of physical dependency, when compared to usual care. Services that did not coordinate as well reported higher rates of mortality and no reduced levels of physical dependency, when compared to usual care. The qualitative evidence reviewed in the study also highlighted some factors that could improve coordination of care (such as having a dedicated care coordinator assigned to the individual), as well as factors that may encourage the use of early supported discharge. Many of these were already captured in the 2013 guideline but some important ones were not, so the committee agreed to list these factors in a new recommendation. How the recommendations might affect services Current systems for early supported discharge vary, and some places do not have dedicated early supported discharge coordinators. Some parts of the country provide better access to early supported discharge services than others. Changes will therefore be required to improve access. The way services work may need to change, and the degree of change needed will vary depending on what services currently provide. Offering care and rehabilitation to those who need it after they have left hospital, if it continues to help them meet their rehabilitation goals, is current practice so is not expected to have a significant resource impact. Return to recommendations Intensity of stroke rehabilitation Recommendations 1.2.15 to 1.2.22 Why the committee made the recommendations The committee agreed that intensive rehabilitation had clinically important benefits. Based
