Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


resource impact. Return to recommendations Intensity of stroke rehabilitation Recommendations 1.2.15 to 1.2.22 Why the committee made the recommendations The committee agreed that intensive rehabilitation had clinically important benefits. Based on the evidence, they agreed that people should be offered combined therapies for at least 3 hours a day, 5 days a week. However, they also emphasised that therapy should be provided for as little or as long as the person requires it and should be based on their needs, to ensure they can get the most out of their rehabilitation. The 2013 guideline recommended at least 45 minutes of physiotherapy for 5 days a week for some people. However, evidence reviewed for the 2023 update found that more intensive physiotherapy improved quality of life and activities of daily living. The optimal intensity of physiotherapy was shown to be between 1 and 2 hours a day, for at least 5 days per week, with the proviso that there may be days when the person is not able to take part for the full duration. The evidence also showed that people after stroke (and their families and carers) felt that more intensive physiotherapy helped them recover faster, especially if it was delivered in the first 6 months after stroke. Although longer physiotherapy sessions will require more resources, they were still found to be cost- effective for the NHS. The committee agreed that longer physiotherapy sessions could be included in a recommended minimum of 3 hours total therapy a day if this was needed. The committee also reviewed evidence on the optimal duration of occupational therapy and speech and language therapy sessions, but this was limited to a small number of studies and therefore, insufficient to recommend any increase in the timings alone. However, there was nothing to suggest that the intensity should be less than a minimum of 45 minutes a day, 5 days per week, the timings recommended in the 2013 guideline. On reviewing this evidence together with that on physiotherapy and noting that some people might benefit from joint therapy sessions, the committee recommended a total therapy time rather than specifying timings for each form of therapy. They also noted that the evidence did not distinguish between people with and without communication difficulties, and agreed that it could apply to both groups. There was not enough evidence to recommend rehabilitation for 7 days instead of 5 days a week.
