Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


and without communication difficulties, and agreed that it could apply to both groups. There was not enough evidence to recommend rehabilitation for 7 days instead of 5 days a week. However, the committee made recommendation for research into the clinical and cost effectiveness of providing rehabilitation for 7 days a week. They also made recommendations for research into the possible benefits of more intensive cognitive and psychological therapy, and of more intensive swallowing therapy. The studies also revealed several factors that could encourage people, or prevent them from, fully participating in rehabilitation therapies. These were supported by the personal experiences of committee members and were included in the recommendations to encourage effective delivery of rehabilitation. How the recommendations might affect practice Current practice is inconsistent. The 2013 guideline recommended that people should initially be offered at least 45 minutes of each relevant stroke rehabilitation therapy for a minimum of 5 days a week. However, this is not always provided to people after stroke. The 2023 recommendation increases the recommended amount of therapy to a total of at least 3 hours spread across the therapy types. This could lead to a change in practice which may impact on resources, although this will be balanced out by long-term health benefits and potential care savings. Return to recommendations Telerehabilitation Recommendations 1.3.1 to 1.3.3 Why the committee made the recommendations The committee looked at evidence on telerehabilitation used both alone and in addition to face-to-face sessions. It found telerehabilitation to be beneficial in improving quality of life and in activities of daily living. However, the committee also stressed that telerehabilitation should only be used if it is the person's preferred option. The relationship between the therapist and the person after stroke should also be maintained, with the option of using in-person therapy instead if needed. As with face-to-face therapy, telerehabilitation should aim to meet the goals the person has agreed with their therapist. Some people may not have the right equipment for this type of therapy so it should be made available to them when needed. The committee also wanted to emphasise that anyone involved in telerehabilitation (including families or carers) should get training in how to use the equipment if they need it. Some detrimental effects were noticed in some people who had telerehabilitation, particularly the effect on mood. The reasons for this are unknown. Therefore, the committee agreed that anyone receiving telerehabilitation
