Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


Some detrimental effects were noticed in some people who had telerehabilitation, particularly the effect on mood. The reasons for this are unknown. Therefore, the committee agreed that anyone receiving telerehabilitation should be monitored carefully for symptoms or signs of depression. They also made a recommendation for research on the impact of telerehabilitation on cognition and mood. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations reflect current practice as many stroke services use telerehabilitation, with its usage increasing in many areas of practice since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. Therefore, these recommendations will not lead to big changes to current practice, depending on the type of communication technology used. In some areas, the recommendations could lead to an increase in telerehabilitation as an alternative to face-to-face appointments. The resource impact of this will probably be neutral. Some people will need extra equipment at home (although this equipment may be loaned by providers and then returned and reused over time) and some resource will be needed to train and support people after stroke and carers who will use it. Currently, telephone calls and videoconferencing are widely used for rehabilitation and require low or no additional resources. The use of virtual reality (VR) programmes or interactive games, which could incur a higher cost, is less common. Telerehabilitation will also reduce travel costs for both therapists and people after stroke, and could be a more efficient use of therapists' time. Return to recommendations Fatigue Recommendations 1.7.1 and 1.7.2 Why the committee made the recommendations People often experience fatigue after stroke and find its effects disabling. While more research is needed on specific treatments for fatigue, the committee agreed that a standardised assessment would: • help with identifying and characterising the symptom • help ensure the rehabilitation team take fatigue into account when setting goals for people after stroke • provide a clear baseline measure for treatment trials. The Fatigue Assessment Scale, Fatigue Severity Scale and Modified Fatigue Impact Scale were found to be valid and reliable tools that were easy to use and effective in discriminating between the physical, cognitive and mood disorders that can interact with fatigue. The committee agreed any of the 3 could be used to assess fatigue while the person was taking part in their rehabilitation programme and during their 6-month stroke review. They also made a recommendation for more research into the clinical and cost effectiveness of these
