Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


person was taking part in their rehabilitation programme and during their 6-month stroke review. They also made a recommendation for more research into the clinical and cost effectiveness of these 3 scales. The committee did not specify when the first assessment should take place as this could not be determined from the evidence they reviewed. However, they agreed it should not be done too quickly after the person's stroke since fatigue levels may be changing rapidly at that stage, but should be done soon enough to help plan ongoing rehabilitation. The timing will need to be determined on an individual basis. The committee was unable to recommend a specific tool to measure fatigue in people with communication difficulties because the evidence was inadequate. There was evidence for a vertical numeric rating scale that used a faces rating scale but this only examined 1 domain of fatigue. Therefore, the committee made a recommendation for research on tools for fatigue in people with communication difficulties. How the recommendations might affect practice Current practice is inconsistent. Only some services assess fatigue and there is no standardised measurement tool. The recommendation to consider an assessment for fatigue during rehabilitation and the 6-month review may require a change from current practice by many providers. The Fatigue Assessment Scale, Fatigue Severity Scale and Modified Fatigue Impact Scale are short assessments that can be filled in by the person after stroke, so the associated costs will be low. Return to recommendations Vision Recommendation 1.8.1 Why the committee made the recommendation No evidence that specifically addressed the clinical and cost effectiveness of visual screening after stroke was identified, so the committee made conclusions based on their own knowledge and experience. Many people experience problems with their eyesight after stroke. These are often identified by stroke units during either an examination by an orthoptist or an assessment carried out by another healthcare professional using basic methods or a validated screening tool. The committee agreed that eyesight problems were more likely to be identified during an orthoptist assessment when compared to other forms of assessment. Significant issues are often identified at a later stage if they were missed initially, but by this time they may have already affected the person's quality of life and their ability to fully participate in stroke rehabilitation. Eyesight problems also pose potential safety risks, including the possibility of driving accidents. Where possible, the committee agreed
