Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


quality of life and their ability to fully participate in stroke rehabilitation. Eyesight problems also pose potential safety risks, including the possibility of driving accidents. Where possible, the committee agreed that people should be assessed by an orthoptist before leaving hospital. However, they recognised this might not be possible and would cause significant delays at discharge if it was the only option available. Therefore, they agreed that people who do not have the assessment before discharge should instead be given an urgent referral so they can have the same assessment as an outpatient. How the recommendation might affect practice Current practice is inconsistent across the country because many stroke units do not have a designated orthoptist. Therefore, the recommendation will lead to a change in practice. However, the time and costs involved in offering an orthoptic assessment on the stroke unit is the same as that for assessment using basic screening and validated screening tools. Return to recommendation Hearing Recommendations 1.9.1 to 1.9.4 Why the committee made the recommendations Many people have hearing problems after stroke which often go undetected and can significantly impact on their quality of life and ability to engage with rehabilitation. The committee agreed it was important to identify hearing problems as soon as possible. However, it may be difficult to do this adequately in the period immediately after admission when the person's condition is not stable, and when they may be in a noisy hospital environment. Based on their experience and expertise, the committee agreed that people should have a hearing screening within the first 6 weeks following stroke. They also highlighted the need to involve family and carers during screening because they can often help identify hearing problems. They also made a recommendation for research on the prevalence of hearing problems in people after stroke. The committee looked at evidence from a small study comparing the diagnostic accuracy of 4 types of screening – 2 types of hearing questionnaire, a handheld hearing screener combined with 1 questionnaire, and a handheld hearing screener alone. All options were effective in ruling out hearing problems, but none were as accurate as audiologist's assessment in diagnosing hearing difficulties after stroke. The committee agreed to include details of the questionnaires used in the study as these are inexpensive and could help identify people who need further assessment. However, they did not recommend handheld hearing screeners as an option because
