Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


questionnaires used in the study as these are inexpensive and could help identify people who need further assessment. However, they did not recommend handheld hearing screeners as an option because of their cost and a lack of availability. They instead made a recommendation for research on their clinical and cost effectiveness, and diagnostic accuracy. The committee agreed that people experiencing hearing problems after stroke should be assessed by an audiologist in line with standard practice. How the recommendations might affect practice Current practice is inconsistent. Hearing assessments after stroke are not standardised and often do not include the use of a questionnaire, so this may lead to a change in practice. It is also possible that there will be an increase in audiology referrals. Return to recommendations Mouth care Recommendations 1.10.1 to 1.10.3 Why the committee made the recommendations The committee agreed by consensus that mouth hygiene should be formally assessed in people after stroke because poor hygiene can lead to increase in significant problems including aspiration pneumonia. There are different protocols available for this but the evidence did not compare these, so the committee did not specify which should be used. The type and frequency of mouth care varied across studies, but they all showed reductions in mortality in people who received a standardised oral hygiene regimen compared with those who received usual care. Some studies also found mouth care interventions reduced cases of pneumonia, gingivitis and oral infections. The evidence on frequency of mouth care was less clear although most studies used a twice-daily mouth care regimen, which the NHS recommends for all people. The specific components of the mouth care regimen differed across studies, but none involved the use of a manual brush alone and most included an electric or battery-powered toothbrush and mouthwash. Oral gel with antibacterial or antifungal properties was also shown to help reduce mortality and occurrence of pneumonia in a study based in an NHS setting. Trained healthcare professionals supervised mouth care in all studies. Therefore, the committee agreed it should be delivered or supervised, when needed, by people with appropriate training and that this could include family members or carers. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations reflect current best practice. For some, these recommendations will not change current practice (for example, care for people who are able to follow a more intensive mouth care regimen). However, the level of care
