Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


For some, these recommendations will not change current practice (for example, care for people who are able to follow a more intensive mouth care regimen). However, the level of care provided to people who find it difficult to follow a more intensive regimen is currently inconsistent, so these recommendations are likely to involve a change in practice in this area. Healthcare professionals may also need additional time to supervise or help deliver mouth care more frequently for some people, including those using additional interventions such as electric toothbrushes, mouthwash and oral gels with antibacterial or antifungal properties. There will also be an additional cost in purchasing these items for services that do not currently use them. Return to recommendations Swallowing Recommendations 1.11.2 to 1.11.7, and recommendation 1.11.11 Why the committee made the recommendations Dysphagia can be distressing for people after stroke and their family members and carers. Therefore, based on their expertise and experience, the committee agreed it would be useful to provide them with information about the condition. It is also important to give families and carers advice on what to do if someone is having difficulties while eating and drinking. A study with 204 participants identified some adaptations that could reduce mortality, chest infections and improve oropharyngeal dysphagia (OPD). Based on this limited amount of evidence and the committee's expert opinion, they agreed that 1 or more of these adaptations could be used to support safe swallowing. They also highlighted that, where needed, the use of oral medication should be reviewed and the formulation or route of administration could be changed so the person can continue with the medication. The committee noted that behavioural exercises and physical stimulation are effective in reducing mortality, chest infections and aspiration caused by OPD, and can help people to return to a normal diet. There was a substantial amount of evidence to support the use of behavioural exercises, but only a limited amount of evidence to support using physical stimulation. However, the committee noted that both types of intervention were often used as usual care across all the evidence. For the studies, both interventions were provided for an average of 30 minutes a day, 5 days a week, for 2 to 4 weeks, during the acute and subacute periods after stroke. Based on this and taking the evidence reviewed for the recommendations on intensity of stroke rehabilitation into account, the committee agreed
