Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


weeks, during the acute and subacute periods after stroke. Based on this and taking the evidence reviewed for the recommendations on intensity of stroke rehabilitation into account, the committee agreed that behavioural exercises should be offered for at least 5 days a week to maximise its benefits. However, they agreed that physical simulation should only be considered as an option for people with OPD because of the limited evidence available. On evaluating other treatments, the committee noted that neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) improved quality of life, reduced dysphagia and chest infections, and helped people to return to a normal diet. The evidence on the effect of NMES on mortality was uncertain because of small trial sizes and short follow-up times. The committee noted that, while a clinically important harm was reported in the evidence, this was unlikely to be related to the use of NMES because the intervention was found to reduce dysphagia and chest infections, and it was unlikely that the intervention would cause death in another way. Taking into account the lack of quality-of-life data required to conduct health economic modelling, the potential high cost of the intervention, the size of the trials and the low quality of the evidence, the committee agreed further research is needed before the use of NMES can be recommended. The evidence on other interventions was insufficient. Therefore, the committee made recommendations for research to gather more information about the use of NMES, as well as neurostimulation and acupuncture, for dysphagia. The committee also looked at the evidence for the free water protocol. This intervention aims to provide some people who have dysphagia and are suspected to have, or known to be at risk of, aspiration with the option of consuming unthickened water between mealtimes. The committee did not recommend its use because, although the evidence was promising, it was limited to 2 small studies (with a total of 34 participants) which found the approach did not reduce chest infections or improve hydration when compared to usual care. Therefore, they made a recommendation for research to investigate the use of the free water protocol, particularly in studies with a larger number of participants. The committee also acknowledged that people with dysphagia may want to eat and drink without the use of any aid or intervention, despite the acknowledged risks associated with this. They agreed that they should be supported in making an informed
