Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


to eat and drink without the use of any aid or intervention, despite the acknowledged risks associated with this. They agreed that they should be supported in making an informed decision on how to proceed. How the recommendations might affect practice Some recommendations are consistent with current practice, including the use of adaptations to support people who have OPD with eating and drinking. Others will lead to a change in current practice. Increasing the intensity of behavioural exercise and physical stimulation from the previously recommended 3 days a week to 5 days is likely to have a cost implication. Return to recommendations Communication Recommendation 1.12.8 Why the committee made the recommendation The evidence for computer-based tools for speech and language therapy varied in quality and was uncertain because of the complexity of the interventions and the risks of bias and imprecision. However, clinically important benefits were seen when interventions focused on, or included, word finding. The overall cost effectiveness of this type of therapy was uncertain, but data from a large UK-based study showed it was cost effective when it had a word finding component. The committee agreed that computer-based therapy aimed at improving word finding could be given in addition to face-to-face speech and language therapy rather than instead of it, as this was the approach taken in most studies. However, therapy would need to be adapted to the person's needs (for example, activities could include words that are important to them). The committee did not recommend the use of computer-based tools for other goals relating to speech and language therapy but instead made a recommendation for research on the clinical and cost effectiveness of these tools for managing communication difficulties after stroke. How the recommendation might affect Computer-based therapy is not routinely used by speech and language therapists in the NHS, so this recommendation could lead to a change in practice. Return to recommendations Robot-assisted arm training Recommendation 1.13.18 Why the committee made the recommendation Extensive studies have shown that robot-assisted arm training can improve arm strength, including grip strength. However, the committee were not convinced that the clinical benefits of using such devices outweighed those achieved by physiotherapy of similar intensity. The evidence also found robot-assisted arm training did not improve arm function or the ability to complete daily activities – improvements the committee agreed would be more important to people after stroke. The studies did not
