Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


training did not improve arm function or the ability to complete daily activities – improvements the committee agreed would be more important to people after stroke. The studies did not reveal any other benefits to using these devices, for example, in improving measures of quality of life or activities of daily living, or in the incidence of spasticity. These devices are expensive to purchase and maintain, and a large study found their use was not cost effective. In view of this, and the wide range of studies that showed they had limited clinical benefits, the committee decided not to recommend their use. How the recommendation might affect practice Currently, only a few stroke units have access to robot-assisted arm training devices and this recommendation should reduce or discourage their use. Overall, it is unlikely that the recommendation will lead to a widespread change in current practice. Return to recommendation Walking therapies and group circuit training Recommendation 1.13.23 Why the committee made the recommendation The evidence base for group circuit training was large and there was considerable variation in group sizes and participant-to-staff ratios, as well as the type, duration and intensity of the exercises on offer. It was not possible to recommend the optimal number of staff who should be involved as this was not consistently reported across studies. The quality of the evidence was also low because of the small size of trials and risk of bias. However, the committee agreed there was enough evidence to recommend group circuit training as an option in addition to one-to-one walking therapy. Some of the training in the studies included an educational element, such as advice on self-management, preventing falls or avoiding further strokes by controlling blood pressure and cholesterol levels. Greater improvements in walking and balance were seen in people who took part in programmes that included an educational element, compared to participants in programmes without this. The evidence was supported by the personal experiences of some committee members, who also emphasised the positive effect of interacting with other people who have had a stroke. They agreed this peer support helped people to know what to expect from their rehabilitation, share solutions to problems and engage more with therapy. Overall, studies showed group circuit training, with or without an educational element, improved 6-minute walk test scores (a measure of how far the person can walk). People who took part in group
