Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


showed group circuit training, with or without an educational element, improved 6-minute walk test scores (a measure of how far the person can walk). People who took part in group circuit training with an educational element did not perform as well in the 6-minute walk test, but the committee noted that this result may be explained by a difference in baseline values between groups that included an educational element and groups that did not. Overall, some of the evidence suggested people could walk faster and found it easier to complete daily tasks after attending group circuit training. Adverse events were noted in groups taking part in training with an educational element, but the committee noted that the events were unlikely to be related to the circuit training itself. Overall, the training was found to have potential benefits and there was no convincing evidence of it causing any harm. There was some inconsistency in results (which is probably because of the variation in programme content). Therefore, the committee agreed it could be considered as an option for some people if it included educational and peer support elements, rather than something offered to anyone able to walk with or without assistance after stroke. How the recommendation might affect practice There is variation in the availability of group circuit training across current practice, so additional resources (including staff training costs) may be needed to introduce it in some areas. The committee agreed that circuit training can be delivered by band 4 or 5 physiotherapists, as well as physiotherapy assistants, so would be unlikely to incur large additional costs. The educational requirement for this training may also impact on resources. Return to recommendation Mirror therapy for the upper or lower limb Recommendations 1.13.30 and 1.13.31 Why the committee made the recommendations The committee reviewed evidence from studies on mirror therapy that varied in setting, the time period after stroke and the participants' affected limbs. In some cases, mirror therapy was also combined with other therapies. Despite these differences, the studies showed mirror therapy led to improved outcomes for people after stroke, especially in their activities of daily living, and this was still the case after their 6-month follow-up. The committee agreed these outcomes should be the main focus of this type of treatment. They also recommended that mirror therapy could be used for the upper and lower limb as an adjunct to the person's
