Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


be the main focus of this type of treatment. They also recommended that mirror therapy could be used for the upper and lower limb as an adjunct to the person's existing rehabilitation programme because this was the approach taken in many of the studies. The committee agreed mirror therapy should ideally begin within 1 month of stroke because the studies mainly included people in the acute or subacute period after stroke. However, a later start to the therapy may still be beneficial. The committee noted that, if offered, mirror therapy should be provided on a frequent basis, so people experience its full benefits. They suggested sessions of around 30 minutes, 5 days per week, for at least 4 weeks, as this was the average length and frequency reported in the studies. The committee agreed that a member of the stroke rehabilitation team, for example a physiotherapist or occupational therapist, should supervise mirror therapy at first with a focus on explaining how it will work and what the person can expect from it. This was supported by a lay member on the committee who said they initially found mirror therapy 'somewhat alien and confusing' but, after further training from an occupational therapist, saw it as extremely beneficial. The committee agreed that some people, for example those with cognitive difficulty, may need more supervision but others can complete the therapy alone, either in hospital or once home (with a loaned mirror). The committee were unable to specify which groups of people would benefit from this therapy the most as the studies involved varied populations. Therefore, they made a recommendation for research on groups that could benefit from mirror therapy after stroke. How the recommendations might affect practice Mirror therapy is a recognised therapy but is not used as standard throughout the NHS. It is often used at the discretion or preference of healthcare professionals as part of other therapy sessions. These recommendations would therefore require a change to current practice for some stroke units. Additional resources may be required because healthcare professionals will need time to provide initial training and then to supervise the therapy for around 4 weeks for some people. However, most people are likely to be able to continue with mirror therapy unsupervised after initial training. There may be additional costs for stroke units if they need to purchase mirrors, especially if people can take them home. However, these
