Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


with mirror therapy unsupervised after initial training. There may be additional costs for stroke units if they need to purchase mirrors, especially if people can take them home. However, these will usually be returned and reused. Return to recommendations Music therapy and interventions Why the committee made no recommendations The evidence for music therapy and interventions showed they could have some benefit, but this was too limited to recommend their use. Published studies were limited and difficult to compare because of the: • small number of participants • lack of cost effectiveness data • use of varied outcome measures, which differed between studies but all lacked patient- and carer-specific outcome measures • prominent use of a no-treatment comparison (or usual care provided to both groups, with the intervention group receiving additional music therapy) • diverse type of audio and music on offer. Based on this, the committee made a recommendation for research on the clinical and cost effectiveness of music therapy for people after a first stroke or recurrent strokes. In particular, they highlighted the need for larger, pragmatic, randomised controlled trials that compare music therapy or interventions with another social activity as a control, and where both types of activity are provided for an equal amount of time. The committee also agreed there was a need for more research into whether music therapy and interventions are cost effective and improve patient-centred outcomes (such as participation in everyday and social activities). Managing shoulder pain Recommendations 1.14.2 and 1.14.4 Why the committee made the recommendations The evidence on interventions for shoulder pain was limited because it did not explore the underlying causes of pain. Post-stroke shoulder pain can be caused by various factors (for example, glenohumeral joint subluxation, spasticity of shoulder muscles, impingement, soft tissue injury, rotator cuff tears, glenohumeral capsulitis or biceps tendonitis) and these can also change over time. The committee recommended that the cause of the person's shoulder pain should be identified wherever possible so they can get the right treatment. However, they also recognised this was often difficult to do in practice and so made recommendations for research to identify both the most useful tests to establish the causes of shoulder pain after stroke and how to manage shoulder pain depending on its cause. None of the interventions used in the studies were found to have a large or consistent benefit. However, a small number of studies
