Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


manage shoulder pain depending on its cause. None of the interventions used in the studies were found to have a large or consistent benefit. However, a small number of studies found some treatments to be beneficial. The use of taping, NMES, intra-articular corticosteroid injections and nerve blocks helped reduce pain and led to improvements in shoulder function. The committee therefore agreed to include these as potential treatment options. How the recommendations might affect practice All the recommended interventions for shoulder pain, except NMES, are widely used in the NHS. NMES is just 1 of several treatment options and is unlikely to be needed by many people. The recommendations are therefore unlikely to lead to a major change in practice. Return to recommendations Spasticity Recommendations 1.15.1 to 1.15.8 Why the committee made the recommendations The committee agreed it was important to differentiate between generalised and focal spasticity (which affects a particular limb or part of a limb) because focal spasticity is more likely to improve with treatment aimed at a specific area of the body. Most of the available evidence was on focal spasticity, particularly of the upper limb. Spasticity can be difficult to treat, so it is important that people after stroke, and their families and carers, are given information on the condition. This will help ensure they know when to seek help but also to understand that spasticity is a difficult condition to manage. The multidisciplinary stroke rehabilitation team should also be involved in individual plans for managing focal and generalised spasticity. Based on their experience, the committee also highlighted some interventions that have been widely used for a long time, for example, stretches or advice on how to avoid triggers. For focal spasticity, the committee looked at the evidence for different types of botulinum toxin A, including Dysport, Botox and Xeomin. Dysport and Xeomin were found to be both cost effective and beneficial in terms of both reducing spasticity in the upper limb and improving activities of daily living. However, Dysport and Xeomin were only cost effective if certain doses were given and if: • the injections were spread across multiple points in the affected limbs and • the treatment was only given every 3 months and • treatment was based on the person's needs and discontinued if ineffective. The cost effectiveness of Botox in upper limb was not evaluated in the health economic analysis carried out for
