Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


treatment was based on the person's needs and discontinued if ineffective. The cost effectiveness of Botox in upper limb was not evaluated in the health economic analysis carried out for this update because there was a lack of clinical evidence relating to Modified Ashworth Scale responder outcomes. The published economic evidence regarding the use of Botox in the upper limb was also limited. Therefore, the committee agreed there was not enough evidence to support its use for this indication. Other preparations of botulinum toxin A are licensed for focal spasticity, including those that are referred to in SIGN's 2023 edition of the National clinical guideline for stroke for the UK and Ireland. If these preparations are already being used and are proving effective, then treatment with these can continue. There was no cost effectiveness evidence and insufficient clinical evidence to recommend botulinum toxin A for spasticity of the lower limb. Only 1 published health economic analysis included a lower limb indication, but this only compared Botox and Dysport and therefore did not explore whether botulinum toxin A was cost effective compared to no treatment. Given the lack of high-quality economic evidence, the committee made a recommendation for research to compare the clinical and cost effectiveness of Botox, Dysport and Xeomin with each other and to usual care for focal spasticity, including in the lower limb. The committee looked at 3 forms of electrical stimulation therapy for focal spasticity: functional electrical stimulation (FES), NMES and transcutaneous electrical stimulations (TENS). All were found to reduce spasticity and improve the ability to use the affected limb when compared to usual care. NMES and TENS also showed benefits in comparison to sham or placebo treatment. However, improvements seen in the studies were modest and the benefits of these treatments were only reported during time periods of less than 6 months. There was insufficient data to recommend 1 treatment over another. The 3 treatments are currently available in the NHS and TENS is widely used for many conditions, so the committee agreed they should only be potential treatment options. They also made a recommendation for research into the clinical and cost effectiveness of these 3 forms of electrotherapy compared to usual care. There was limited evidence on treatments for generalised spasticity, and only 1 study examining oral medicines was identified. However, the committee noted that oral baclofen and tizanidine are often used to treat this
