Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


evidence on treatments for generalised spasticity, and only 1 study examining oral medicines was identified. However, the committee noted that oral baclofen and tizanidine are often used to treat this condition. The use of oral baclofen is more common, while tizanidine is usually prescribed by specialists. Therefore, the committee recommended that oral baclofen could be an option for generalised spasticity but agreed its use needed to be closely monitored as it can sometimes be too effective in reducing muscle tone and can impair function more than the original spasticity. They did not recommend tizanidine because the evidence was limited, of low quality and did not report any clinically important benefits. The committee were aware that some people may need other treatments (such as intrathecal baclofen) because they have complex needs, or spasticity that is difficult to manage. There was insufficient evidence to recommend these treatments, so the committee agreed by consensus that people should be referred to specialised units for further treatment. Evidence showed acupuncture and electroacupuncture for treating spasticity improved some, but not many, outcomes. The committee also noted this treatment is not widely available. Therefore, they did not recommend its use but made a recommendation for research on its clinical and cost effectiveness. How the recommendations might affect practice Measures such as splinting, stretching and offering advice on how to avoid triggers are routinely used in current practice. Botulinum toxin A is widely used for focal spasticity but the recommendation for 2 forms, to be used at a certain dose and only for the upper limb, is likely to be cost saving. Electrical stimulation therapy is also widely available and, although most units do not have access to all 3 forms, this recommendation will have a minimal effect on practice. Oral baclofen is a low-cost medicine that is widely available in the NHS, so this recommendation should not alter practice. Multidisciplinary teams already discuss spasticity in their meetings and are aware of the potential need for specialist referral, so this recommendation will not change practice. Return to recommendations Returning to work Recommendation 1.16.5 Why the committee made the recommendation A single study from South Africa, whose participants took part in a focused return-to-work programme led by a physiotherapist and occupational therapist, found there were clinically important benefits to returning to work. Based on this evidence, which was reviewed for the section on community participation programmes, the committee agreed
