Stroke rehabilitation in adults
KEYWORDS: stroke, people, committee, evidence, rehabilitation, therapy, care, person, recommendation, recommendations, people stroke, practice, training, example, agreed


and occupational therapist, found there were clinically important benefits to returning to work. Based on this evidence, which was reviewed for the section on community participation programmes, the committee agreed by consensus to recommend referral to return-to-work programmes, where available, for those wishing to resume work after stroke. How the recommendation might affect practice This recommendation may increase the demand for return-to-work programmes for people after stroke. Return to the recommendation Self-management interventions Why the committee made no recommendations The committee did not make any recommendations for self-management interventions, which focus on empowering the person after stroke to manage their own symptoms (for example through components like problem-solving, goal-setting, decision-making, self- monitoring or using coping strategies). This is because they were not found to be more clinically effective than other interventions. The evidence was supported by the committee's own experiences of self-management interventions, although some committee members did report having positive personal experiences of using them. The committee therefore agreed self-management interventions could still play a useful role in supporting the health of people after stroke but further studies were needed into their benefits, as well as effective components and optimal frequency. They made a recommendation for research on the clinical and cost effectiveness of self-management interventions for people after stroke. Community participation programmes Recommendation 1.17.6 Why the committee made the recommendation Community participation programmes can cover a wide range of interests and activities. The content of each programme and the degree to which healthcare professionals run or oversee them also varies. The evidence mainly looked at different types of group-based physical exercise, but some covered art or music activities. In general, people who took part in these programmes found their quality of life improved although, as expected, the benefits they experienced varied between the programmes used in the studies. Members of the committee also had positive experiences of taking part in these programmes and agreed they were of value to people after stroke. Therefore, the committee recommended that people could be referred to a community programme if there was 1 available which met their needs. They also agreed that family members and carers could find the programmes beneficial because they can help prevent feelings of social isolation, improve quality of life and reduce caregiver strain. How the recommendation might affect practice Current practice is inconsistent across the country, with some programmes commissioned by the NHS and delivered by charities,
