Thyroid Storm
KEYWORDS: thyroid, storm, thyroid storm, thyrotoxicosis, patients, therapy, clinical, surgery, hours, drugs, pubmed, patient, failure, given, diagnosis


CLINICAL RECOGNITION Thyroid (or thyrotoxic) storm is an acute, life-threatening syndrome due to an exacerbation of thyrotoxicosis. It is now an infrequent condition because of earlier diagnosis and treatment of thyrotoxicosis and better pre- and postoperative medical management. In the United States the incidence of thyroid storm ranged between 0.57 and 0.76 cases/100,000 persons per year. Thyroid storm may be precipitated by a number of factors including intercurrent illness, especially infections ( Table 1 ). Pneumonia, upper respiratory tract infection, enteric infections, or any other infection can precipitate thyroid storm. Thyroid storm in the past most frequently occurred after surgery, but this is now unusual. Occasionally it occurs as a manifestation of untreated or partially treated thyrotoxicosis without another apparent precipitating factor. In the Japanese experience approximately 20% of patients developed thyroid storm before they received anti-thyroid drug treatment. Finally, if patients are not compliant with anti-thyroid medications thyroid storm may occur and this is a relatively common cause. Thyroid storm is typically associated with Graves’ disease, but it may occur in patients with toxic nodular goiter or any other cause of thyrotoxicosis. Table 1. Factors That May Precipitate Thyroid Storm View in own window Infections Acute Illness such as acute myocardial infarction, stroke, congestive heart failure, trauma, etc. Non-thyroid surgery in a hyperthyroid patient Thyroid surgery in a patient poorly prepared for surgery Discontinuation of anti-thyroid medications Radioiodine therapy Recent use of iodinated contrast Pregnancy particularly during labor and delivery Classic features of thyroid storm include fever, marked tachycardia, heart failure, tremors, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, dehydration, restlessness, extreme agitation, delirium or coma ( Table 2 ). Fever is typical and may be higher than 105.8 F (41 C). Patients may present with a true psychosis or a marked deterioration of previously abnormal behavior. Rarely thyroid storm takes a strikingly different form, called apathetic storm, with extreme weakness, emotional apathy, confusion, and absent or low fever. Signs and symptoms of decompensation in organ systems may be present. Delirium is one example. Congestive heart failure may also occur with peripheral edema, congestive hepatomegaly, and respiratory distress. Marked sinus tachycardia or tachyarrhythmia, such as atrial fibrillation, are common. Liver damage and jaundice may result from congestive heart failure or the direct action of thyroid hormone on the liver. Fever and vomiting may produce dehydration and prerenal azotemia. Abdominal pain may be a prominent feature. The clinical picture may be masked by
