Thyroid Storm
KEYWORDS: thyroid, storm, thyroid storm, thyrotoxicosis, patients, therapy, clinical, surgery, hours, drugs, pubmed, patient, failure, given, diagnosis


action of thyroid hormone on the liver. Fever and vomiting may produce dehydration and prerenal azotemia. Abdominal pain may be a prominent feature. The clinical picture may be masked by a secondary infection such as pneumonia, a viral infection, or infection of the upper respiratory tract. Table 2. Clinical Manifestations of Thyroid Storm View in own window History of thyroid disease Goiter/thyroid eye disease High fever Marked tachycardia, occasionally atrial fibrillation Heart Failure Tremor Sweating Nausea and vomiting Agitation/psychosis Delirium/coma Jaundice Abdominal pain Death from thyroid storm is not as common as in the past if it is promptly recognized and aggressively treated in an intensive care unit, but is still approximately 10-25%. In recent nationwide studies from Japan the mortality rate was >10%. Death may be from cardiac failure, shock, hyperthermia, multiple organ failure, or other complications. Additionally, even when patients survive, some have irreversible damage including brain damage, disuse atrophy, cerebrovascular disease, renal insufficiency, and psychosis. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Thyroid storm classically began a few hours after thyroidectomy performed on a patient prepared for surgery by potassium iodide alone. Many such patients were not euthyroid and would not be considered appropriately prepared for surgery by current standards. Exacerbation of thyrotoxicosis is still seen in patients sent to surgery before adequate preparation, but it is unusual in the anti-thyroid drug-controlled patient. Thyroid storm occasionally occurs in patients operated on for some other illness while severely thyrotoxic. Severe exacerbation of thyrotoxicosis is rarely seen following 131-I therapy for hyperthyroidism; but some of these exacerbations may be defined as thyroid storm. Thyroid storm appears most commonly following infection, which seems to induce an escape from control of thyrotoxicosis. Pneumonia, upper respiratory tract infections, enteric infections, or any other infection can cause this condition. Interestingly, serum free T4 concentrations were higher in patients with thyroid storm than in those with uncomplicated thyrotoxicosis, while serum total T4 levels did not differ in the two groups, suggesting that events like infections may decrease serum binding of T4 and cause a greater increase in free T4 responsible for storm occurrence. Another common cause of thyroid storm is a hyperthyroid patient suddenly stopping their anti-thyroid drugs. DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL Diagnosis of thyroid storm is made on clinical grounds and involves the usual diagnostic measures for thyrotoxicosis. A history of hyperthyroidism or physical findings of an enlarged thyroid or hyperthyroid eye findings is helpful in suggesting the diagnosis. The
