Thyroid Storm
KEYWORDS: thyroid, storm, thyroid storm, thyrotoxicosis, patients, therapy, clinical, surgery, hours, drugs, pubmed, patient, failure, given, diagnosis


and involves the usual diagnostic measures for thyrotoxicosis. A history of hyperthyroidism or physical findings of an enlarged thyroid or hyperthyroid eye findings is helpful in suggesting the diagnosis. The central features are thyrotoxicosis, abnormal CNS function, fever, tachycardia (usually above 130bpm), GI tract symptoms, and evidence of impending or present CHF. There are no distinctive laboratory abnormalities. Free T4 and, if possible, free T3 should be measured. Note that T3 levels may be markedly reduced in relation to the severity of the illness, as part of the associated “non-thyroidal illness syndrome”. As expected, TSH levels are suppressed. Electrolytes, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), blood sugar, liver function tests, and plasma cortisol should be monitored. While the diagnosis of thyroid storm remains largely a matter of clinical judgment, there are two scales for assessing the severity of hyperthyroidism and determining the likelihood of thyroid storm ( Figures 1 and 2 ). Recognize that these scoring systems are just guidelines and clinical judgement is still crucial. Data comparing these two diagnostic systems suggest an overall agreement, but a tendency toward underdiagnosis using the Japanese criteria. Unfortunately, there are no unique laboratory abnormalities that facilitate the diagnosis of thyroid storm. Figure 1. Burch-Wartofsky Point Scale for the Diagnosis of Thyroid Storm. When it is not possible to distinguish the effects of an intercurrent illness from those of severe thyrotoxicosis per se, points are awarded such as to favor the diagnosis of storm and hence, empiric therapy. Endocrinol Metab Clin North Am 22:263–277. Figure 2. Japanese Thyroid Association Criteria for Thyroid Storm. THERAPY Thyroid storm is a medical emergency that has to be recognized and treated immediately ( Table 3 ). Admission to an intensive care unit is usually required. Besides treatment for thyroid storm, it is essential to treat precipitating factors such as infections. As would be expected given the rare occurrence of thyroid storm there are very few randomized controlled treatment trials and therefore much of what is recommended is based on expert opinion. Table 3. Treatment of Thyroid Storm View in own window Supportive Measures 1. Rest 2. Mild sedation 3. Fluid and electrolyte replacement 4. Nutritional support and vitamins as needed 5. Oxygen therapy 6. Nonspecific therapy as indicated 7. Antibiotics 8. Cardio-support as indicated 9. Cooling, aided by cooling blankets and acetaminophen Specific therapy 1. Beta-blocking agents. Propranolol (60 to 80 mg orally every 4 hours, or 1 to
