Thyroid Storm
KEYWORDS: thyroid, storm, thyroid storm, thyrotoxicosis, patients, therapy, clinical, surgery, hours, drugs, pubmed, patient, failure, given, diagnosis


Antibiotics 8. Cardio-support as indicated 9. Cooling, aided by cooling blankets and acetaminophen Specific therapy 1. Beta-blocking agents. Propranolol (60 to 80 mg orally every 4 hours, or 1 to 3 mg intravenously every 4 to 6 hours), Start with low doses. Esmolol in ICU setting (loading dose of 250 mcg/kg to 500 mcg/kg followed by 50 mcg/kg to 100 mcg/kg/minute). 2. Antithyroid drugs (PTU 500–1000mg load, then 250mg every 4 hours or Methimazole 60-80mg/day), then taper as condition improves 3. Potassium iodide (one hour after first dose of antithyroid drugs): 250mg orally every 6 hours 4. Hydrocortisone 300mg intravenous load, then 100mg every 8 hours. Second Line Therapy 1. Plasmapheresis 2. Oral T4 and T3 binding resins- colestipol or cholestyramine 3. Dialysis 4. Lithium in patients who cannot take iodine 5. Thyroid surgery It should be noted that if any possibility is present that orally given drugs will not be appropriately absorbed (e.g., due to stomach distention, vomiting, diarrhea or severe heart failure), the intravenous route should be used. If the thyrotoxic patient is untreated, an antithyroid drug should be given. PTU, 500–1000mg load, then 250mg every 4 hours, should be used if possible, rather than methimazole, since PTU also prevents peripheral conversion of T4 to T3, thus it may more rapidly reduce circulating T3 levels. Methimazole (60–80mg/day) can be given orally, or if necessary, the pure compound can be made up in a 10 mg/ml solution for parenteral administration. Methimazole is also absorbed when given rectally in a suppository. After initial stabilization, one should taper the dose and treat with Methimazole if PTU was started at the beginning as the safety profile of Methimazole is superior. If the thyroid storm is due to thyroiditis neither PTU nor Methimazole will be effective and should not be used. An hour after PTU or Methimazole has been given, iodide should be administered. A dosage of 250 mg every 6 hours is more than sufficient. The iodine is given after PTU or Methimazole because the iodine could stimulate thyroid hormone synthesis. Unless congestive heart failure contraindicates it, propranolol or other beta-blocking agents should be given at once, orally or parenterally, depending on the patient’s clinical status. Beta-blocking agents control tachycardia, restlessness, and other symptoms. Additionally, propranolol inhibits type 1 deiodinase decreasing the conversion of T4 to T3. Probably lower doses should be administered initially, since the administration of beta-blockers to patients with
