Thyroid Storm
KEYWORDS: thyroid, storm, thyroid storm, thyrotoxicosis, patients, therapy, clinical, surgery, hours, drugs, pubmed, patient, failure, given, diagnosis


other symptoms. Additionally, propranolol inhibits type 1 deiodinase decreasing the conversion of T4 to T3. Probably lower doses should be administered initially, since the administration of beta-blockers to patients with severe thyrotoxicosis has been associated with vascular collapse. Esmolol, a short-acting beta blocker, at a loading dose of 250 mcg/kg to 500 mcg/kg followed by 50 mcg/kg to 100 mcg/kg/minute can be used in an ICU setting. For patients with reactive airway disease, a cardioselective beta blocker like atenolol or metoprolol can be employed. Permanent correction of thyrotoxicosis by either 131-I or thyroidectomy should be deferred until euthyroidism is restored. Other supporting measures should fully be exploited, including sedation, oxygen, treatment for tachycardia or congestive heart failure, rehydration, multivitamins, occasionally supportive transfusions, and cooling the patient to lower body temperature down. Antibiotics may be given on the presumption of infection while results of cultures are awaited. The adrenal gland may be limited in its ability to increase steroid production during thyrotoxicosis. Therefore, hydrocortisone (100-300 mg/day) or dexamethasone (2mg every 6 hours) or its equivalent should be given. The dose can rapidly be reduced when the acute process subsides. Pharmacological doses of glucocorticoids (2 mg dexamethasone every 6 h) acutely depress serum T3 levels by reducing T4 to T3 conversion. This effect of glucocorticoids is beneficial in thyroid storm and supports their routine use in this clinical setting. Usually rehydration, repletion of electrolytes, treatment of concomitant disease, such as infection, and specific agents (antithyroid drugs, iodine, propranolol, and corticosteroids) produce a marked improvement within 24 hours. A variety of additional approaches have been reported and may be used if the response to standard treatments is not sufficient. For example, plasmapheresis can remove circulating thyroid hormone and rapidly decrease thyroid hormone levels. Orally administered bile acid sequestrants (20-30g/day Colestipol-HCl or Cholestyramine) can trap thyroid hormone in the intestine and prevent recirculation. In most cases these therapies are not required but in the occasion patient that does not respond rapidly to initial therapy these modalities can be effective. Finally, in rare situations where medical therapy is ineffective, or the patient develops side effects and contraindications to the available therapies’ thyroid surgery may be necessary. FOLLOW-UP Antithyroid treatment should be continued until euthyroidism is achieved, when a decision regarding definitive treatment of the hyperthyroidism with antithyroid drugs, surgery, or 131-I therapy can be made. Rarely urgent thyroidectomy is performed with antithyroid drugs, iodide, and
