Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


of diabetes, with an estimated lifetime prevalence exceeding 50% in people with diabetes. Among various forms of neuropathy, diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) is the most common and has the strongest evidence base regarding therapeutic approaches. This American Diabetes Association clinical compendium summarizes the latest information about screening for, diagnosing, and treating painful DPN in routine 1Department of Internal Medicine, followed by a description of the pathophysiology of the disease and its Metabolism, Endocrinology and Diabetes, approach to effectively diagnose DPN and offer a novel perspective 2Division of Diabetes, Endocrinology, management of DPN. They summarizes the latest guidance on effective Manchester, Manchester, UK therapies, including pharmacological oral and topical agents, nutraceutical 3Manchester Royal Infirmary, Manchester, UK products, and nonpharmacological therapies, including physical activity and dietary interventions, passive modalities, and energy or nerve stimulation 4University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, FL techniques. Throughout the publication, the authors identify knowledge gaps that need to be addressed and advocate a personalized care Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI approach to reduce the burden of painful DPN and optimize quality of life for individuals affected by it. Salt Lake City, UT Diabetic neuropathy is one of the most prevalent chronic complications in Utah, Salt Lake City, UT adults with type 1 or type 2 diabetes while also affecting individuals with predi- 8Salt Lake City Veterans Administration broad spectrum of different neuropathic conditions, diabetic peripheral neurop- German Diabetes Center, Leibniz Center for Diabetes Research at Heinrich Heine strongest available evidence regarding therapeutic approaches (1). 10German Center for Diabetes A detailed epidemiological overview is beyond the scope of this monograph. Research, Partner Düsseldorf, Munich-Neuherberg, Germany However, understanding some of the key phenotypes and their associated differences in the risk of developing DPN is crucially important for busy Address correspondence to There are some epidemiological differences between DPN in type 1 versus type 2 diabetes, despite there being no major structural differences in nerve pathology. As demonstrated by the DCCT (Diabetes Control and Compli- ©2022 by the American Diabetes cations Trial) (5), the prevalence of DPN is low in individuals with newly Association, Inc. diagnosed and early type 1 diabetes (<10 years’ duration). severe, affects up to 30% of all individuals with DPN and The prevalence then increases with disease duration to up is challenging to manage, resulting in increased risks of to 34% after ~25 years, as documented in the DCCT’s associated problems such as sleep disturbances,
