Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


with disease duration to up is challenging to manage, resulting in increased risks of to 34% after ~25 years, as documented in the DCCT’s associated problems such as sleep disturbances, further observational follow-up EDIC (Epidemiology of Diabetes reduced quality of life, polypharmacy, socioeconomic were reported earlier by the EURODIAB IDDM (Euro- ability to work or perform daily activities), morbidity, and pean Insulin-Dependent Diabetes Mellitus Prospective mortality (1,16–18). Given the epidemic explosion of Complications Study) (6) in randomly selected individuals diabetes in the United States (19) and worldwide (20), the countries. Furthermore, data from contemporary cohorts socioeconomic consequences, effective therapeutic and reflective of current standards of care on both sides of the preventive measures for DPN and DPN-related pain are Atlantic have found similar results. For example, the T1D of paramount importance. with type 1 diabetes in >80 U.S.-based pediatric and evidence-based information regarding the mechanisms adult endocrinology practices, and the large Scottish T1D involved in inducing nerve fiber damage and neuropathic Register (8), which includes all people with type 1 diabetes pain and the spectrum of risk factors and DPN pheno- in Scotland, both of which phenotyped for DPN with types across the life span, as well as a novel discussion the Michigan Neuropathy Screening Instrument (MNSI) of the impact of social determinants of health (SDOH) questionnaire (9), found prevalence rates of 11–13% for on DPN development and management. It also provides symptoms of DPN, including pain, in their real-world busy clinicians with a customized, stepwise approach to cohorts. Interestingly, in addition to traditional risk factors effectively screen for and diagnose DPN in routine care. such as glycemic control, age, and diabetes duration, Additionally, it summarizes the latest guidance on effec- cardiovascular risk factors (e.g., obesity, hyperlipidemia, tive pharmacological and nonpharmacological therapeutic hypertension, and smoking) and particularly socioeco- strategies for painful DPN, including the respective roles of nutraceutical products, dietary modification, exercise, nomic risk factors have emerged as very strong predictors and new technologies. Finally, this publication outlines of DPN in type 1 diabetes (2,7,8). knowledge gaps that need to be targeted to identify modi- In contrast, more than half of all individuals with type fiable risk factors, develop more sensitive assessments, 2 diabetes develop signs and symptoms of DPN during and produce effective therapies to either prevent the their lifetime, as documented in several large observational progression of or reverse neuropathic disease. It advocates or interventional cohorts (1,10–14). In
