Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


during and produce effective therapies to either prevent the their lifetime, as documented in several large observational progression of or reverse neuropathic disease. It advocates or interventional cohorts (1,10–14). In fact, the prevalence a personalized care approach to ultimately reduce sequelae of DPN is quite high, with rates of up to ~20–30% even and the related health care burden and optimize quality of in newly diagnosed and early type 2 diabetes, including in life for people with diabetes and DPN. contemporary cohorts such as the >1,500 individuals with screen-detected type 2 diabetes in the Danish arm of the ADDITION (Anglo-Danish-Dutch Study of Intensive PATHOPHYSIOLOGY OF DPN Treatment of Diabetes in Primary Care) trial (15) and >5,000 individuals with early type 2 diabetes (~4 years’ dura- Diabetes preferentially affects the peripheral nervous tion ) in the GRADE (Glycemia Reduction Approaches system (PNS), a likely reflection of the unique anatomy of in Diabetes–A Comparative Effectiveness) trial (3). Both the PNS (21). PNS axons are frequently ≥3 feet long and of these trials phenotyped participants for DPN using the >20,000 times the length of their supporting cell bodies. MNSI. In type 2 diabetes, in addition to traditional DPN PNS sensory neurons and their receptors lie outside the risk factors (e.g., glycemic control, age, and diabetes dura- blood-brain barrier and are more vulnerable to injury tion), racial/ethnic minority status also carries a higher DPN secondary to diabetes than motor neurons, which lie risk, including among American Indians. within the barrier. Among the sensory neurons, there are Importantly, high prevalence rates of DPN similar to small unmyelinated neurons known as C-fibers but also those observed in adults with early type 2 diabetes also have frequently called “small fibers.” These fibers carry noci- been observed in contemporary youth cohorts, particularly ceptive information, particularly related to heat and pain, those with type 2 diabetes, as reported by the SEARCH and constitute the majority of sensory axons in the PNS. (SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth) study (4), which included The lack of myelin results in slow, continuous conduction ~2,000 young people with type 1 or type 2 diabetes. of small fibers secondary to a uniform distribution of ion Among DPN symptoms, neuropathic pain, often channels along the axon. In conjunction with small fibers 2 DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY δ are small, thinly myelinated A fibers, which relay infor- in people with type 2 diabetes
