Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


In conjunction with small fibers 2 DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY δ are small, thinly myelinated A fibers, which relay infor- in people with type 2 diabetes (26). There is now consensus mation on touch, pressure, and cold, and fully myelinated that glycemic control alone cannot prevent the progression β α fibers of different diameters, designated A and A , of DPN in patients with type 2 diabetes. The metabolic which are responsible for vibratory and position sense. syndrome has emerged as a crucial risk factor for neuropathy Myelin, provided by Schwann cells, ensheathes the axons States (4,27–29), Denmark (15), Germany (30), the Neth- of these fibers in a highly controlled manner, forming the erlands (31), India (32), and China (33,34). The metabolic nodes of Ranvier and paranodes, the sites of ion channels syndrome encompasses hyperglycemia, obesity, and dyslip- required for rapid nerve conduction and of tight junctions idemia, and the risk of developing neuropathy increases with that protect large fibers from toxic substances (21). the number of these components present in an individual with diabetic neuropathy align with their presenting pathophysiology of diabetic neuropathy focused on the idea symptoms (22). Early degeneration and loss of C fibers are that disruption in whole-nerve bioenergetics (i.e., how the evident in patients experiencing new-onset pain, burning, nerve accesses energy along its entire length) is the crucial or prickling, which are known as dysesthesias, in their feet, factor leading to disease (35). followed by initial demyelination/remyelination of large Mitochondria are the energy-producing organelles in fibers. As the disease progresses, large fiber axonal loss even- cells and use both glucose and lipids to produce ATP. In tually occurs, and patients experience numbness and loss the PNS, mitochondria are primarily made in the cell of proprioception in the feet that travels upward over time. body and are trafficked down long axons to provide energy This distal-to-proximal axonal loss and its accompanying for nerve function (36). In small fibers, mitochondria symptoms are the hallmark of diabetic neuropathy (23). are found along the length of the axons. In large fibers, Between 1970 to 2010, studies aiming to understand they are also present along the length of the axons but the pathophysiology of diabetic neuropathy focused on are particularly present at the nodes of Ranvier and the glucose dysregulation (24). In the polyol pathway, aldose paranodes, where they assist in salutatory nerve conduc- reductase converts
