Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


focused on are particularly present at the nodes of Ranvier and the glucose dysregulation (24). In the polyol pathway, aldose paranodes, where they assist in salutatory nerve conduc- reductase converts excess glucose to sorbitol, resulting in tion. In both fiber types, mitochondria produce ATP from a series of downstream reactions that decrease sodium– glucose and lipids (21). ATP then supplies the needed potassium adenosine triphosphatase (ATP) activity, energy for nerve impulses to travel the length of the axons deplete nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate, and and reach distal nerve terminals. produce reactive oxygen species (ROS), impairing nerve Under normal conditions, glucose and lipids undergo function. Aldose reductase inhibitors were tested in 32 a series of distinct, highly regulated chemical reactions, diabetic neuropathy clinical trials but unfortunately failed ending with the transfer of the electron donors nicotin- to improve nerve function. amide adenine dinucleotide and flavin adenine dinucleo- Excess glucose also enters the hexosamine pathway, tide to the mitochondrial electron transport chain. These producing inflammatory by-products and activating electron donors travel across the inner mitochondrial protein kinase C (PKC) secondary to the accumulation of membrane and undergo oxidative phosphorylation, with diacylglycerol. PKC activation, in turn, enhances insulin generation of ATP for energy and small amounts of ROS resistance, disrupts growth factor biology, and leads to as a by-product of the process. However, in the diabetic vasoconstriction of nerve blood vessels. Similar to the environment, excess glucose and lipids not only disrupt failed in human diabetic neuropathy. also produce excess electron donors that the mitochondria Advanced glycation end products (AGEs), which bind are unable to process. The result is bioenergetic failure receptors for AGEs (RAGEs), are another by-product (37) and the loss of normal mitochondrial membrane of excess glucose. Activation of AGEs and RAGEs leads function (mitochondrial depolarization), decreased ATP to downstream inflammation, ROS accumulation, and production, impaired mitochondrial trafficking, and accu- decreased blood flow to peripheral nerves. Although preclin- mulation of ROS, leading to inflammation, endoplasmic ical trials targeting activation of RAGEs were promising, reticulum stress, apoptosis of neurons, and axonal failure available compounds were too toxic for human trials and (38) (Figure 1). remain in therapeutic development (25). With fewer functional mitochondria in the cell body and glucose control alone was insufficient to prevent neuropathy with the axons farthest from the cell body (i.e., those in DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY 3 Obesity and METABOLICALLY PREDIABETES AND Insulin
