Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


insufficient to prevent neuropathy with the axons farthest from the cell body (i.e., those in DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY 3 Obesity and METABOLICALLY PREDIABETES AND Insulin Resistance HEALTHY TYPE 2 DIABETES Dyslipidemia Hyperglycemia Energy Bioenergetic Overload Failure Mitochondrial Reactive DIABETIC Depolarization Oxygen NEUROPATHY and Loss Species of Adenosine Triphosphatase Impaired Mitochondrial Inflammation Trafficking Endoplasmic Apoptosis Reticulum Stress Axonal Failure FIGURE 1 Chain of events underlying the pathophysiology of diabetic neuropathy. Components of the metabolic FIGURE 2 In metabolically healthy individuals (left), syndrome contribute to diabetic neuropathy by causing mitochondria produced in the neuron cell body traffic energy overload from excess glucose and lipids, leading down the axons, providing energy for normal axonal to mitochondrial bioenergetic failure, with mitochondrial function. In prediabetes and type 2 diabetes (right), depolarization, loss of adenosine triphosphatase as an the chain of injurious events leads to mitochondrial energy source, and accumulation of reactive oxygen dysfunction, with adenosine triphosphatase loss and species. This process leads to impaired mitochondrial distal-to-proximal degeneration of energy-starved axons. trafficking from the cell body down the length of the axons, endoplasmic reticulum stress, apoptosis of SCREENING AND DIAGNOSING DPN neurons, and axonal failure. the feet) being most vulnerable. This vulnerability occurs of DPN are the result of progressive damage to and even- because fewer functional mitochondria successfully travel tual loss of all populations of large and small myelinated the long distance from the cell body along the entire length and unmyelinated nerve fibers and related downstream of the axons to their most distal terminals (Figure 2). Small effects. In diabetes, this process occurs in a specific fibers that convey pain and dysesthesias are particularly symmetrical, distal-to-proximal pattern, starting at the tip vulnerable to this energy loss. Schwann cells can provide of the toes and eventually progressing proximally. Thus, fuel, mitochondria, and protection from toxic substances associated with DPN follows the same pattern, creating This explains why small fibers are the earliest fibers to which is an important diagnostic clue (Figure 3) (1). undergo injury secondary to diabetes and why pain and dysesthesias are frequently the first symptoms of DPN. A Customized, Stepwise Approach for Primary Care KEY POINTS Considering the high prevalence of DPN and the » Early injury and loss of small fibers, susceptible to magnitude of its consequences, implementing effective in symptomatic pain and burning in their feet. is key to ensuring its diagnosis at the earliest
