Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


and loss of small fibers, susceptible to magnitude of its consequences, implementing effective in symptomatic pain and burning in their feet. is key to ensuring its diagnosis at the earliest possible » As the disease progresses, larger nerve fibers also stage and the timely treatment of DPN pain, thereby become injured by the lack of energy sources, preventing progression and the development of advanced and individuals experience numbness and loss of complications, including limb amputations and death (1). position sense in their feet. All individuals should be assessed for DPN starting at » These signs and symptoms progress from the diagnosis of type 2 diabetes and 5 years after the diagnosis feet upward into the leg and reflect a distal-to- of type 1 diabetes and at least annually thereafter. proximal fiber loss that is the hallmark of diabetic Although the anatomy of the PNS, and hence the neuropathy. evaluation of the various nerve fiber populations, may be quite complex, there are several important tips that can 4 DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY 1. Take a Targeted History A targeted medical history may be obtained quickly during a routine clinic visit or may be ascertained from the elec- tronic health record (EHR) by reviewing for the presence of several risk factors known to be strongly associated with DPN, including poor glycemic control, long duration of diabetes, older age (>70 years), tall stature, hypertension, obesity, and metabolic syndrome (1,28,40,41). In addition, a history of recent falls, particularly when no other risk factors for falls are apparent, may reflect gait and TIME balance disorders that can be a direct consequence of the large-fiber dysfunction associated with DPN (42,43). Individuals with this type of nerve dysfunction are also at increased for other complications, including fractures and hospitalizations, and thus require more specific care. FIGURE 3 Early symptoms of diabetic peripheral 2. Assess for DPN Symptoms neuropathy usually occur in the toes and fingertips, The symptoms associated with DPN are dependent expanding proximally over time in a stocking-and-glove pattern. Sensations to stimuli such as vibration, pinprick, on the type of fibers most affected initially (Table 1), temperature, and monofilament testing all tend to although some individuals with DPN may be completely diminish in this same pattern over time. asymptomatic and thus may first present with advanced complications such as foot ulcers (1,44). guide clinicians in implementing efficient and successful DPN screening and
