Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


in this same pattern over time. asymptomatic and thus may first present with advanced complications such as foot ulcers (1,44). guide clinicians in implementing efficient and successful DPN screening and diagnosis procedures, as described in Small-Fiber DPN the American Diabetes Association’s position statement Neuropathic pain is the key feature associated with the on diabetic neuropathy (1). Importantly, when screening damage to small nerve fibers that usually occurs in the for DPN, one should keep in mind that each of the earliest stages of DPN (1,45). Neuropathic pain is largely role; thus, targeted evaluations can be performed easily in as burning, lancinating, tingling, and/or a shooting, is shown in Figure 4 and described below. combinations and typically worse at night. The pain may TABLE 1 Symptoms and Clinical Signs of Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathy Symptoms Function Signs on examination (clinically diagnostic)* • Numbness • Pressure • Ankle reflexes: Reduced • Tingling • Balance • Absent • Poor balance • • Vibration perception:* Reduced Large, Myelinated • Absent • Nerve Fibers • 10-g monofilament sensation:* Reduced • Absent • • Proprioception: Impaired • • Pain: • Nociception • Thermal (cold/hot) discrimination:* Burning Reduced • • Protective sensation • Electric shocks Absent • • Small Nerve Fibers Stabbing • • Pinprick sensation:* • Hyperalgesia Reduced • Absent • Allodynia • *Document impairment/loss in symmetrical, distal-to-proximal pattern. DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY 5 1 2 3 Take a Targeted History Assess for DPN Symptoms Test for Clinical Signs of DPN Are risk factors present? Is neuropathic pain present? • Long diabetes duration • Burning Are signs of small-fiber • Older age • Lancinating DPN present? • Metabolic syndrome • Shooting (electric shock-like) YES • Reduced/absent pinprick sensation • Obesity • Worse at night YES • Reduced/absent cold • Hyperlipidemia • Hyperalgesia temperature sensation • Tall stature • Social determinants Are symptoms of large-fiber of health DPN present? Are signs of large-fiber DPN present? • Frequent falls • Numbness YES • Reduced/absent • Poor balance vibration sensation • Weakness • Reduced/absent light- touch sensation • Reduced ankle reflexes 4 YES Develop a Differential Diagnosis Assess for factors listed in Figure 3. Are symptoms and signs distributed in a symmetrical, Are findings normal? length-dependent “stocking and glove” pattern? YES NO NO YES DPN is likely Treat underlying condition; Refer to neurologist DPN is present refer for specialty care as needed Perform Confirmatory Testing as
