Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


“stocking and glove” pattern? YES NO NO YES DPN is likely Treat underlying condition; Refer to neurologist DPN is present refer for specialty care as needed Perform Confirmatory Testing as Needed FIGURE 4 A stepwise approach to screening and diagnosing diabetic peripheral neuropathy. be accompanied by dysesthesias such as an exaggerated may be the first symptom that prompts an individual to response to painful stimuli (hyperalgesia) and/or pain seek medical care, and it could be present in individuals evoked by contact with ordinarily unpainful stimuli such with newly diagnosed diabetes or even prediabetes as socks, shoes, and bedclothes (allodynia) (1,46,47). (1,46). Thus, the absence of a prior diagnosis of diabetes Available evidence shows that up to 25–30% of people should not rule out the need for formal DPN screening, with diabetes will experience DPN pain, and because it particularly in the presence of several of the risk factors even in the absence of any neurological deficits (1,45,48). tics (Table 1) (1,46). However, clinicians should also be aware that some Women, members of some racial/ethnic minority individuals may not voluntarily report some symptoms, groups, and individuals with type 2 diabetes appear to be of a variety of sociocultural factors (e.g., fear or being the direct and indirect economic burden associated with misunderstood or not taken seriously and misperception neuropathic pain is substantial. This pain may directly that treatments are unavailable or would not help) (45,49). or indirectly interfere with daily activities or lead to loss Thus, DPN pain may be underreported. of balance, disability, psychosocial impairment, sleep when evaluating pain caused by DPN. Neuropathic pain (1,46). Thus, there should be a strong suspicion of DPN in 6 DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY individuals presenting with any of these complications. time should be part of standard care for all people Some individuals may present with sub-acute onset with diabetes. (over a period of days) and a clinical presentation domi- 3. Test for Clinical Signs of DPN nated by foot and lower-limb pain, suggesting a prom- inent involvement of small fibers. The pain progresses signs of DPN are also characteristic of the type of nerve over days to weeks to constant burning dysesthesias and fiber deficits present and their progression (Table 1) (1,46). allodynia involving the legs in a stocking distribution. the trunk, or it spreads more diffusely and is associated to assess small- and large-fiber function as part of
