Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


(Table 1) (1,46). allodynia involving the legs in a stocking distribution. the trunk, or it spreads more diffusely and is associated to assess small- and large-fiber function as part of with several autonomic features (1). Despite the prom- routine clinical care and require only simple tools that inent pain, sensory loss may be mild or absent, there is can be carried easily in a lab coat pocket. Evaluation of no weakness, and reflexes are generally preserved. The DPN-associated small-fiber damage can be accomplished sub-acute forms of DPN may be seen with acute weight by testing a person’s pinprick sensation using a sharp loss or may be induced by diabetes treatment, developing object such as a safety pin (discarded after one use) within 2–4 weeks (occasionally up to 6 weeks) after the and temperature threshold sensation, which is mostly achievement of rapid and sustained glycemic control with performed with a cold metal object such as a tuning fork insulin, oral antidiabetic agents, or dietary measures. (1,23). Evaluation of DPN-associated large-fiber damage involves assessing vibration perception using a 128-Hz Large-Fiber DPN tuning fork, proprioception, light-touch pressure with a Symptoms associated with the damage and loss of the 10-g monofilament on the dorsal aspect of the great toe, large nerve fibers include numbness, tingling without pain, and bilateral ankle reflexes. loss of protective sensation, and, in more advanced stages, It is important to note that there are many mono- poor balance (1,46), weakness, and unsteadiness that may filaments available, with varying diameters. Clinicians lead to falls (1,23). Some individuals may also present should use a standardized 10-g instrument that has been with completely insensate, numb feet and may state in the pretested to buckle at a 10-g force when applied to the clinic that their feet feel as if they are wrapped in wool or site of interest and should apply the monofilament at as if they are walking on thick socks (1,46). the dorsal aspect of the great toe to ensure standardized assessment (1,46). Although the 10-g monofilament is Asymptomatic DPN arguably the most often used test to screen for DPN Clinicians should be also aware that up to half of all in routine care, its use alone is not recommended for people with DPN may be either asymptomatic or, as effective screening or diagnosis, as the loss of light-touch previously mentioned, reluctant to report some symp- sensation occurs in advanced stages
