Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


people with DPN may be either asymptomatic or, as effective screening or diagnosis, as the loss of light-touch previously mentioned, reluctant to report some symp- sensation occurs in advanced stages of neuropathy, and toms (1,45). In such cases, neurological deficits may be relying solely on this test could miss opportunities to discovered by chance during a routine clinical examination implement early preventive care measures in many (1,46). Other individuals who are initially aware of neuropathic symptoms may become asymptomatic later in people with DPN (1,46). Sensation testing with pin and the course of the disease, as they experience severe sensory vibration is more sensitive. Loss of ankle reflexes and loss in all types of nerve fibers and develop insensate weakness of small foot muscles and dorsiflexors occur feet (1,46). A serious consequence of insensate feet is an earlier in the course of DPN (23). increased risk for painless injury, leading to an increased All of these sensory modalities should be tested initially risk for foot ulceration and amputation (1,50). For by application of the sensory stimulus to a body site where example, objects lodged in the shoe, including a wrinkled normal responses are expected, such as the forehead. Then stocking; unrecognized, increased pressure during walking the stimulus is applied to the great toe and then moved and weight bearing; or contact with very sharp or hot proximally up the limb to the level where the sensation objects without the appropriate protection may produce is felt to be normal. In addition, for many of these blisters that erode through the skin and lead to more evaluations (e.g., vibration perception using a 128-Hz severe complications. It is the loss of the so-called “gift of tuning fork or the 10-g monofilament) using a blinded, pain” that causes people with plantar neuropathic ulcers forced-choice testing procedure will reduce the potential to unknowingly walk on their lesions, inducing chronicity for bias and increase the sensitivity of the evaluations. that is frequently complicated by infection (1). This procedure involves applying a stimulus (either true In summary, periodic, flexible assessment for DPN vibration or just a touch with the tuning fork) at one of risk factors and symptoms and their trajectories over two times while a patient’s eyes are closed and then asking DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY 7 whether the patient felt the stimulus at time A or time proximal segments and including
