Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


eyes are closed and then asking DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY 7 whether the patient felt the stimulus at time A or time proximal segments and including distal weakness with foot B. Those with sensation loss may choose the incorrect drop and variable degrees of autonomic dysfunction (1,55). time or state that they did not feel the stimulus either Although the norm in clinical care historically was time. All of these assessments should follow the typical to refer people with suspected DPN to a neurologist DPN pattern, starting distally (the dorsal aspect of the and to order electrophysiological testing to confirm the hallux) and moving proximally until a sensory threshold diagnosis, more recent evidence has shown that these is identified, with the same evaluations being performed measures are not necessary except in specific cases in distribution (Figure 3) (1,46). a different etiology is suspected, as described below A combination of at least two of these evaluations, (1,22,45). Indeed, specialized electrophysiological testing with at least one targeting small fibers and one targeting is usually not cost-effective, and its high associated costs large fibers, is recommended to screen for and diagnose and typically long waiting times would place unnecessary combining symptoms and signs have been validated health care system. over time for the screening and diagnosis of DPN and 4. Develop a Differential Diagnosis can be used easily in routine care. These include the (53), or the previously mentioned MNSI (9). Similarly, symptoms and signs mentioned above (Table 1) in an there are several validated scales for neuropathic pain and individual with diabetes or prediabetes in whom other its severity, including the McGill Pain Questionnaire and causes of neuropathy have been excluded (1,45). Therefore, its more recent, shorter version known as the Douleur a comprehensive differential (Figure 5) is needed initially Neuropathique en 4 Questions (DN4) (54). in all individuals before a firm diagnosis of DPN is become more severe as a reflection of damage and loss of forms of peripheral neuropathy that may either mimic or all nerve fibers, with sensory deficits also involving more coexist with DPN and may be treatable. Metabolic Disease Systemic Disease Infectious Disease • Thyroid • Vasculitis • HIV • Renal • Paraproteinemia • Hepatitis B • Amyloidosis • Lyme disease Inflammatory Disease Nutrition Industrial Agents • Chronic inflammatory • Vitamin B12 deficiency • Acrylamide demyelinating • Pyridoxine • Organophosphorous polyradiculoneuropathy • Thiamine
