Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


• Hepatitis B • Amyloidosis • Lyme disease Inflammatory Disease Nutrition Industrial Agents • Chronic inflammatory • Vitamin B12 deficiency • Acrylamide demyelinating • Pyridoxine • Organophosphorous polyradiculoneuropathy • Thiamine agents • Tocopherol Drugs Heavy Metals Heredity/Genetics • Alcohol • Arsenic • Amiodarone • Mercury • Chemotherapy FIGURE 5 Considerations for developing a differential diagnosis for diabetic peripheral neuropathy. 8 DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY A careful medical history may unveil some of these to ensure that other etiologies, many of which may be exposures, neoplasia with a history of chemotherapy, of DPN (1,22,45). Additionally, in atypical cases involving order a comprehensive metabolic panel and screen signs, a motor predominance, or an acute onset and rapid for hypothyroidism by testing for thyroid-stimulating progression of signs such as severe weakness, a timely hormone. Consider as well the possible role of referral to a neurologist should be made, and cerebrospinal end-stage renal disease with uremia, particularly in fluid examination by lumbar puncture for protein levels, individuals with type 1 diabetes, or perform serum genetic testing, and MRI imaging of nerve roots and immunoelectrophoresis with immunofixation to eval- peripheral nerves may be required. uate for a monoclonal gammopathy (1,22,45). Vitamin B12 deficiency is one of the most prevalent DPN KEY POINTS mimics found in people with type 2 diabetes and can be completely reversed with treatment (1,22,45). Up to » DPN assessment should be performed annually 30% of people with type 2 diabetes who are treated with starting at diagnosis for type 2 diabetes and 5 years after the diagnosis for type 1 diabetes. People metformin may develop B12 deficiency. Thus, laboratory with prediabetes and young people with symptoms screening for vitamin B12 levels (methylmalonic acid or signs of DPN should also be screened. with or without homocysteine) is recommended at least annually in these individuals. Chronic inflammatory » Assessment should include a detailed history and at least two sensation and reflex tests. demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy may also mimic Electrophysiological testing is rarely needed for or coexist with DPN, and a high level of suspicion people with typical signs and symptoms. should be raised by a sudden onset and rapid progres- » A complex differential is recommended, and sion of symptoms and signs. Finally, more genetic forms ambiguous or atypical cases should be referred to of polyneuropathy are being discovered, and novel a neurologist and/or have additional testing. treatments have become
