Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


and signs. Finally, more genetic forms ambiguous or atypical cases should be referred to of polyneuropathy are being discovered, and novel a neurologist and/or have additional testing. treatments have become available for disorders such as familial transthyretin amyloidosis. Thus, genetic testing could be also considered, although the role of routine genetic testing remains unclear. SOCIAL DETERMINANTS OF HEALTH AND THEIR IMPACT 5. Perform Confirmatory Tests as Needed ON DPN Confirmatory tests in ambiguous cases may include determining changes in nerve conduction studies to Diabetes continues to grow at an alarming pace, assess predominantly large-fiber dysfunction. These tests leading to excess morbidity and mortality in the are performed with surface stimulating and recording United States and worldwide (19,56). Currently, 34.2 techniques evaluating motor and sensory nerve fibers million Americans (10.5% of the U.S. population) have in the upper and lower limbs and usually demonstrate a diabetes, with a disproportionate burden on racial and decrease in sural nerve amplitude, followed by reductions ethnic minorities and low-income populations (19,57). in sensory and motor nerve conduction velocity (22). The Despite an expanding arsenal of therapeutic options, gold standard for small-fiber neuropathy is assessment only 26% of Americans are meeting combined targets of intra-epidermal nerve fiber density measurements for A1C, lipids, and blood pressure (58). Not unex- by skin punch biopsy. This test can be performed in the pectedly then, DPN remains prevalent, affecting up to 50% of patients with diabetes (1). Recognizing that rarely necessary for routine diagnosis of DPN and is used primarily for research purposes (22). Other modalities particularly for type 2 diabetes, the American Diabetes may include quantitative sensory thermal thresholds for reduced cooling detection thresholds or elevated heat Association (ADA) in 2021 published a scientific thresholds, laser Doppler flare imaging studies, or corneal review on SDOH and diabetes (59). This review confocal microscopy, although the latter, again, is largely highlighted the key social domains affecting diabetes reserved for research studies. incidence, prevalence, and outcomes (59). We seek here In summary, a thorough history and examination and to complement this report with a focus on the impact routine screening laboratory testing are recommended of SDOH specifically on DPN. DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY 9 Disparities, and Diabetes Risk influenced by SDOH. For example, people with a lower disparities worsen in the United States (61), research increased risk of developing diabetes compared to those is unveiling the importance of
