Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


influenced by SDOH. For example, people with a lower disparities worsen in the United States (61), research increased risk of developing diabetes compared to those is unveiling the importance of nonclinical factors such with a higher socioeconomic position (66). Additionally, as social, behavioral, and economic influences on both factors such as socioeconomic status (SES), food security, Organization (WHO) as “the conditions in which people complications, cardiovascular disease, and mortality (59). are born, grow, live, work, and age; these circumstances are Impact of Key SDOH on DPN shaped by the distribution of money, power, and resources at global, national, and local levels” (62). Recognizing Adverse distribution of SDOH has both direct and that up to 50–60% of health outcomes are attributed to indirect impacts on proximal diabetes outcomes such SDOH (63), multiple frameworks have been developed to as glycemic control (67), which in turn contribute both categorize and describe the influence of SDOH on to the pathogenesis of diabetes complications, as comprehensive framework was developed by the WHO mediators, include adverse care processes (e.g., preventive structural determinants (e.g., socioeconomic context, (e.g., patient-centered care), or inadequate self-care political context, and socioeconomic position) on inter- behaviors (e.g., medication-taking) (67). Examples of mediary determinants (e.g., biological, behavioral, and negative diabetes outcomes resulting from the specific Disease Control and Prevention’s Healthy People 2020 Economic Stability (and now Healthy People 2030) framework grouped SES is a complex construct that commonly includes SDOH into five general domains, including the neigh- measures of income and occupation, both of which are borhood and built environment, social and community closely intertwined with education (59). As described context, economic stability, education access and quality, 6. The common theme among all frameworks is that the and low education status, are more likely to have type 2 inequitable distribution of SDOH is the fundamental diabetes. Furthermore, those with lower SES who have basis for all health disparities (59). diabetes are more likely to have inadequate glycemic control (68). Unsurprisingly, then, individuals with type 1 Economic diabetes living in more socially deprived areas in Scotland Stability were found to be 2.17 times more likely to have DPN (8). Education Social and Education Community Access and Researchers conducting an analysis of the T1D Exchange Context Quality clinic registry cohort in the United States found that lower individual educational attainment predicted DPN in type 1 diabetes, even when adjusted for glycemic exposure and vascular risk factors
