Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


Quality clinic registry cohort in the United States found that lower individual educational attainment predicted DPN in type 1 diabetes, even when adjusted for glycemic exposure and vascular risk factors (7). Additionally, low educational status has been shown to be associated with the development of any microvascular complication in type 2 diabetes (69). Neighborhood Health Care Health Care Access and Quality and Built Access and Environment Quality highly dependent on having health insurance. This FIGURE 6 Healthy People 2030 framework for social was particularly true in the era before passage of the determinants of health (65). Affordable Care Act; prior studies using data from 2011 10 DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY (−) Economic Stability (−) Processes of Care (e.g., foot screening) (−) Social (−) Education Environment (−) Access to Care (e.g., patient- (−) Glycemic centered care Control DPN DIABETES RISK (−) Self-Care Behaviors (e.g., medication (−) Health Care (−) Physical adherence) Access and Environment Quality FIGURE 7 Framework for social determinants of health and their impact on diabetic peripheral neuropathy (adapted from refs. 65 and 67). and 2012 demonstrated a lack of routine diabetes care Special Considerations measures such as assessment of glycemic control and Racism as a Potential Root Cause for Health preventive diabetes screenings, even when controlled for Disparities in Diabetes individual income (70). It was not surprising, then, that Members of racial and ethnic minority groups historically T1D Exchange researchers were able to demonstrate in have borne a disproportionate burden of diabetes and its their clinic registry cohort that DPN in type 1 diabetes associated complications (19,60). Biological factors such was associated with having public or no insurance versus as alterations in glucose metabolism, insulin resistance, private insurance (7). and obesity have been found to account for some of this Physical and Built Environment increased risk (71). However, studies assessing race and Stable housing, food security, and safe environments ethnicity have found inconsistent findings, with many of the increased risks attributable to SDOH (72). With in which to engage in physical activity are crucial for regard to DPN specifically, there have been no consistent individuals with diabetes to facilitate consistent medica- findings of racial or ethnic differences in DPN prevalence tion use (e.g., the proper storage of insulin or noninsulin rates (71,73). injectables) and self-care behaviors to achieve proximal With an increased understanding of the importance of glycemic outcomes (59). However, there is a
