Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


proper storage of insulin or noninsulin rates (71,73). injectables) and self-care behaviors to achieve proximal With an increased understanding of the importance of glycemic outcomes (59). However, there is a lack of SDOH in diabetes prevalence, incidence, and outcomes, research evaluating the effects of the physical and built the upstream social and political contexts that contribute environment specifically on DPN. to and perpetuate health disparities have been receiving Social Environment increased attention. Specifically, the concept of racism, rather than race, as the root cause of the structural and Factors such as social context and social support have social factors leading to socioeconomic deprivation, resi- been shown to be important in improving glycemic dential segregation, and discrimination has been proposed control, self-care behaviors, and quality of life (59).There and warrants further evaluation (74). are also known cultural preferences in terms of support systems and interventions to improve support that include Importance of Psychological Determinants of team, depending on the target population (59). However, nants such as emotional distress (75) and depression (76) there is a paucity of studies evaluating the impact of the significantly affect sleep and quality of life in painful DPN social environment on DPN specifically. (77). It is recognized that there is a complex interplay DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY 11 between SDOH, psychological determinants, and TREATING PAINFUL DPN glycemic control (67). Further investigation to is needed As mentioned previously, ~30% of all individuals with to learn how these complex relationships extend to DPN, DPN will experience painful symptoms that will require and particularly painful DPN. pharmacological and other treatments (78). Although painful DPN may occur in all age-groups, it is more The Way Forward common in older patients. Additionally, there are specific The writing group for the ADA’s SDOH scientific review differences in pain phenotypes. For instance, in younger emphasized the need to evaluate the impacts of SDOH individuals with poorly controlled type 1 diabetes, pain pathways on different populations with diabetes (59). Data may be present with no or very few other clinical signs specific to the effects of SDOH on DPN are limited but (78,79), whereas older individuals are also likely to have crucial to provide a comprehensive understanding of the large-fiber dysfunction, resulting in unsteadiness and contributors to this debilitating and common compli- gait disturbances, which can adversely affect activities of cation of diabetes. Because there are no clearly effective, daily
