Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


dysfunction, resulting in unsteadiness and contributors to this debilitating and common compli- gait disturbances, which can adversely affect activities of cation of diabetes. Because there are no clearly effective, daily living (80). In a large, community-based study in disease-modifying agents for DPN (1), targeting proximal the United Kingdom, painful DPN was more common diabetes outcomes such as glycemic control, blood pressure in individuals with type 2 diabetes, and there was a weak control, and adequate treatment of lipid pathways remains association with older age (79). Given that the mean age the mainstay of therapy for prevention of DPN. Additional of the 15,000 patients in this study was 61 years, this research on the impacts of SDOH on DPN risk and finding suggests that the management of painful DPN in outcomes can provide clarification on potential high-yield the elderly requires special attention. intervention targets. Historically, our treatment strategies for DPN have focused on improving symptoms such as Pain Assessment pain in individuals but are limited in terms of their effec- Successfully treating painful DPN requires the means tiveness, with only 50% of people with DPN responding to to evaluate the effectiveness of each patient’s therapeutic such interventions (1). Ultimately, interventions that target regimen. A large number of scales to assess pain severity more upstream social, political, and psychological causes of have been proposed (81,82), including a visual analog DPN may be more effective for a larger population. scale (VAS) or a series of simple, orienting questions In summary, DPN remains a common complication of such as are found in the DN4 (54), and these approaches in observational studies of large cohorts suggest that ment of neuropathic symptoms can be accomplished socioeconomic factors and health care accessibility are risk with tools such as the Neuropathy Total Symptom factors for DPN. A more comprehensive assessment of Score–6 or the modified Toronto Clinical Neuropathy the impacts of social and psychological determinants of Score) instruments (82–84). health on DPN is needed to better our understanding of potential therapeutic targets. It is likely that interventions Role of Glycemic Control that address more upstream causes of health disparities at As described earlier, chronic hyperglycemia is a major structural and societal levels will be more effective for a contributory factor in the etiopathogenesis of the diabetic larger population of patients at risk for DPN. neuropathies; however, the importance of glycemic control in the management of painful symptoms is
