Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


contributory factor in the etiopathogenesis of the diabetic larger population of patients at risk for DPN. neuropathies; however, the importance of glycemic control in the management of painful symptoms is less KEY POINTS clear. Early studies suggested that stable glycemic control with few excursions into hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia » Discrepancies in SDOH are the basis for health disparities, particularly in diabetes, leading to an was associated with reduced pain scores as assessed on a increased disease prevalence and incidence. VAS (78). Later, with the advent of continuous glucose » Inequitable distribution of SDOH has both direct monitoring, a small study confirmed that people with and indirect effects on diabetes outcomes, including painful DPN have greater fluctuations in glucose and glycemic control and cardiovascular outcomes. poorer overall glycemic control than matched subjects » Social deprivation, lower educational status, and with painless neuropathy (85). Although there has not Future exploration of other SDOH domains on DPN hypothesis, an early step in the management of painful risk and progression should be pursued. DPN should be to achieve optimal and stable glycemic control (86). Thus, the stability of glycemic control may 12 DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY be more important than the actual level of control, as Chronic Painful Diabetic Neuropathy indicated by A1C, in the management of painful DPN. This chronic painful neuropathy is common among people of all ages with either type 1 or type 2 diabetes. Acute Painful Diabetic Neuropathy Many of these individuals will require treatment, and the Acute painful diabetic neuropathy is a rare but commonly used therapeutic approaches are described well-recognized and distinct variety of the sensory below. It is important to remember that the natural neuropathies. It is characterized by very severe neuro- history of this condition is usually characterized by the pathic symptoms, as described earlier, that typically resolution of severe symptoms over a period of years occur after a sudden change in glycemic control and (78), although data from reliable, long-term studies has been described as occurring after normalization of are lacking. Thus, regular review and adjustment of the blood glucose levels after simultaneous pancreas and therapeutic approach in each patient is essential. kidney transplantation. It can also follow an episode of Therapeutic Approaches ketoacidosis, and in young people, particularly females, it may be associated with eating disorders (87). The Because there are no pathogenetically oriented phar- prognosis of this acute form
