Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


Therapeutic Approaches ketoacidosis, and in young people, particularly females, it may be associated with eating disorders (87). The Because there are no pathogenetically oriented phar- prognosis of this acute form of painful neuropathy is macological treatments approved by the U.S. Food and good, typically with resolution of symptoms within Drug Administration (FDA), the treatment approaches the severe symptoms, as described below, is invariably natural history of neuropathy, which is one of progressive required. This variety of neuropathy was originally loss of nerve fibers in a distal-to-proximal manner. called “insulin neuritis,” but a more recent review The following sections briefly describe the commonly by Gibbons and Freeman (88) suggested the term used pharmacological agents, topical treatments, and “treatment-induced neuropathy of diabetes,” as insulin physical therapies, as summarized in Figure 8. Limited is not the only cause. space prevents us from including discussion of the many Topical treatment: • Capsaicin 8% patch* Nonpharmacological therapies: • Health behavior interventions Exercise • Reduced sedentary behavior OPIODS • Dietary modification • • Energy or nerve stimulation PERSON WITH High-frequency (10-kHz) • PAINFUL DPN spinal cord stimulation* Exclude other causes of neuropathy Aim for good and stable Pharmacological glycemic control therapies: • Anticonvulsants Pregabalin* • Gabapentin • Combination therapy: • SNSRI • Multiple-drug combination therapy • Duloxetine* using the agents listed in this figure • Tricyclic • Pharmacological + nutraceuticals + antidepressants nonpharmacological approaches FIGURE 8 Recommended therapeutic approaches to painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy. Pharmacological therapy selection should be individualized based on factors such as comorbidities, cost, potential drug-drug interactions, and potential for adverse effects. Opioids are not recommended because of their high risk of addiction, abuse, and adverse effects. Topical capsaicin and a variety of nonpharmacological approaches are also available, and combination therapy may be needed. Not depicted are the neutraceuticals α-lipoic acid and benfotiamine, which are used in some countries but not approved in the United States. Individuals with severe pain that is refractory to other therapies should be referred to a specialist pain clinic. *U.S. Food and Drug Administration–approved for the treatment of painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy. SNSRI, selective norepinephrine and serotonin reuptake inhibitor. DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY 13 other agents that have been proposed for the treatment Its adverse effects are well recognized and include nausea, of painful DPN. For a detailed discussion of this topic, somnolence, and dizziness, among others (1,45,82). readers are referred to recent systematic
