Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


adverse effects are well recognized and include nausea, of painful DPN. For a detailed discussion of this topic, somnolence, and dizziness, among others (1,45,82). readers are referred to recent systematic reviews and Because duloxetine and pregabalin have different meta-analyses, position statements, and review articles modes of action, the combination of these agents has the largest comparative trial (93) did not show a FDA-Approved Pharmacological Treatments significant difference between high-dose monotherapy There are three FDA-approved therapies for painful with either agent and a standard-dose combination of DPN: pregabalin, duloxetine, and tapentadol (1). both. However, there was a trend consistently favoring However, the last is an opioid, and a systematic review combination therapy over monotherapy. after its approval questioned its effectiveness (90). This Because duloxetine is also an antidepressant, it may be issue will be addressed in a separate section below. particularly helpful in people with painful DPN who also have depressive symptomatology. Pregabalin α δ Pregabalin is a calcium channel 2- subunit ligand, the Other Pharmacological Therapies efficacy of which has been confirmed in a large number Amitriptyline of studies (1,45,81,82,89,91). It has been extensively Amitriptyline and other tricyclic antidepressant agents studied in painful DPN (1,82,91), and evidence suggests a dose-dependent response, with weaker effect at lower have been used for many years in the management of doses (92). It can be given twice, or, on occasion, three neuropathic pain (1,45,81,82,89). However, adverse times daily, and most patients require 300–600 mg/day effects are common, especially in the elderly, and include for symptomatic relief. However, because it is excreted anticholinergic effects such as dry mouth, urinary reten- virtually unchanged in the urine, great caution must be tion, and drowsiness. There are also warnings to use these taken in individuals with renal impairment, especially agents with caution in the presence of ischemic heart those with an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) disease or glaucoma. <45 mL/min/1.73 m2. Adverse effects, which commonly Up to one in three patients cannot tolerate even the include somnolence, dizziness, and peripheral edema, are lowest dose of amitriptyline because of these predictable more likely with higher dosages and also in the elderly. side effects. It can be given once daily, usually in the As recommended by Freynhagen et al. (91), a low-and- early evening, and the usual starting dose is 25 mg, slow dosing approach can limit these adverse effects. These increasing as necessary to a maximum of 150
