Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


(91), a low-and- early evening, and the usual starting dose is 25 mg, slow dosing approach can limit these adverse effects. These increasing as necessary to a maximum of 150 mg. authors also recommend starting with asymmetric dosing, However, much lower doses must be used in older with a larger dose being given in the evening. Up-titration patients, and because of potential cardiovascular adverse should be based on pain relief. Thus, in a middle-aged effects, great caution should be taken in those with patient with normal renal function, it is common to start known ischemic heart disease. with 75 mg twice daily and gradually increase the dose Gabapentin every 3–7 days to a maximum of 600 mg/day. Greater Gabapentin, similar to pregabalin, was first used as an caution is required in elderly patients, who are more likely anti-epileptic drug but has been shown to have efficacy to have renal dysfunction and in whom side effects are in the management of painful DPN. However, it has a more common; in these individuals, starting at 25 mg shorter half-life and therefore must be dosed three times daily may be required. daily. As with pregabalin, up-titration is recommended, Because pregabalin additionally has anxiolytic activity, but trials have shown that most patients require 1,800 it may be particularly helpful in individuals with marked mg daily in divided doses for pain relief, and, occasionally, anxiety, which is not uncommon among people experi- patients need the maximum daily dose of 3,600 mg. encing neuropathic pain. Lower doses are recommended for individuals with a Duloxetine reduced eGFR (45). Duloxetine is a selective norepinephrine and serotonin The adverse effects of gabapentin are similar to those reuptake inhibitor and can be given once daily at a dose of pregabalin and include dizziness, somnolence, and, on of either 60 or 120 mg. Its efficacy has been proven in a occasion, gait disturbances. A recent systematic review number of randomized controlled trials (RCTs), and it has comparing the efficacy and safety of gabapentin and been shown in head-to-head trials to have similar efficacy duloxetine in painful DPN found no significant differ- to other agents, including pregabalin and gabapentin (45). ences between the two drugs (94). 14 DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY Opioids Management of Painful DPN in the Elderly Although several opioids have been shown to have As alluded to above, particular care is required in the some
