Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY Opioids Management of Painful DPN in the Elderly Although several opioids have been shown to have As alluded to above, particular care is required in the some efficacy in the management of neuropathic pain in management of painful DPN in elderly patients. Poly- general, their associated high risks of addiction, abuse, pharmacy is common in the elderly, and this is especially sedation, and other complications such as somnolence, true in those with diabetes, who may be on multiple headache, and impaired gastrointestinal motility therapies, including several oral antidiabetic agents, a even in the short term are major barriers to their use. statin, aspirin, and multiple treatments for other common Additionally, it has been revealed recently that even comorbidities such as hypertension and cardiovascular the weak synthetic opioid agonists tramadol and the disease. Indeed, an article published in 2016 by Jansen extended-release tapentadol pose the same risks with et al. (98) addressed the problem of inappropriate poly- only modest evidence of efficacy in relieving severe pharmacy in older patients and proposed “deprescribing,” neuropathic pain. Thus, given the evidence on risks versus a process of planned and supervised tapering of inappro- potential benefits, none of these agents should be used priate medications. in the treatment of painful DPN, and they should be As noted above, painful DPN is common in elderly avoided especially in the elderly. patients with diabetes, and, in addition to painful Interestingly, a recently published randomized, symptoms, these patients may also have significant loss of large-fiber nerve function, which leads to unsteadiness and suggested that the opioid receptor antagonist naltrexone motor dysfunction, leading in turn to alterations in gait 2–4 mg daily might be effective in the treatment of (78). These patients are therefore more prone to adverse painful DPN. Naltrexone showed comparable efficacy effects of some of the drugs discussed above, particularly but greater safety and tolerability than amitriptyline in the tricyclic antidepressants, but also anticonvulsants and this trial. However, these preliminary results, although duloxetine at higher doses. interesting, will need to be confirmed in larger trials. Moreover, older patients are also more likely to have Topical Therapies other complications, including diabetic nephropathy, A number of topical therapies have been proposed for kidney disease, and cardiovascular complications. the treatment of painful DPN over the years but are Therefore, marked caution must be taken when dosing not widely used because the area of neuropathic pain drugs
