Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


cardiovascular complications. the treatment of painful DPN over the years but are Therefore, marked caution must be taken when dosing not widely used because the area of neuropathic pain drugs such as pregabalin and gabapentin, which should can be quite extensive, involving not only both feet, be started at lower doses than usual and with very careful but also the lower limbs, generally below knee level. up-titration. It is also well recognized that eGFR falls The most studied of these products has been capsaicin, with age (99); thus, although a patient who is 80 years but its use has been restricted because of the need for of age and has an eGFR of 50 mL/min/1.73 m2 may be frequent application and also the burning pain patients considered as having “normal” renal function, extra care often experience when a capsaicin-containing patch is must still be taken when setting dosages for the drugs applied topically. discussed above. Older patients with severe painful DPN More recently, an 8% long-acting capsaicin patch has not responsive to these drugs might benefit from referral been developed and is now approved by the FDA for to a pain clinic for possible SCS therapy (100). painful DPN based on data from two multicenter trials demonstrating effective pain reduction. Initial results are Combination Treatment promising (96,97), and it is associated with fewer central Given the complexity of DPN-associated pain and the adverse effects than the oral medications. However, its high risks for side effects of available pharmacological use may cause significant pain at the application site, it agents, particularly when higher effective doses are needed should be avoided in patients with active skin lesions, and in a patient population with multiple other comor- and its application requires suitable infrastructure to be bidities, consideration of combination therapy may be available and must be performed in a physician’s office. advisable. Combining two or three of the pharmacological Physical Therapies agents discussed above that have a strong track record Data from RCTs support the use of spinal cord stimula- of benefit may enable better pain resolution at lower tion (SCS) in the management of severe painful DPN. doses and with better tolerance, as shown in Figure 8 (1). This and other energy or nerve stimulation treatments are Similarly, combining pharmacological with nonpharma- discussed in detail in the section on nonpharmacological cological treatment options may be more effective in a approaches to DPN
