Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


or nerve stimulation treatments are Similarly, combining pharmacological with nonpharma- discussed in detail in the section on nonpharmacological cological treatment options may be more effective in a approaches to DPN and pain management. broader number of individuals (Figure 8). DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY 15 Duration of Treatment ROLE OF NUTRACEUTICALS IN As noted previously, the natural history of painful DPN DPN AND PAIN MANAGEMENT is not well studied, but it is clinically recognized that As discussed earlier, DPN remains the most relevant and painful symptoms rarely persist for more than a few prevalent clinical manifestation of diabetic neuropathy years. Thus, periodic review of pharmacological therapy and predicts the development of neuropathic foot ulcers, is needed, and these agents must not be regarded as all-cause mortality, and cardiovascular morbidity and lifetime medications. It is recommended that, after 6 months of symptom relief, a slow and gradual reduction condition still remains underdiagnosed and undertreated of drug treatment should be attempted. If symptoms (102). Given that the efficacy of causal treatments of reappear during this gradual reduction, a lower dose DPN and neuropathic pain is limited, there is an unmet may be required for the next few months, when further need for adjunct treatments. review and attempted reduction should take place. The term “nutraceutical” was coined in 1989 (103) as a portmanteau of “nutrition” and “pharmaceutical,” but, Future of Painful DPN Treatment to date, there are no internationally accepted definitions As summarized in recent reviews (45,81,89), a number of the term or of related terms such as “functional food,” of new agents are currently under investigation for the management of painful DPN. Moreover, phenotyping proposed that, unlike dietary supplements, nutraceuticals of patients with painful DPN may well lead to the should not only supplement the diet, but also aid in the development of more and better treatments for this prevention and/or treatment of disease and/or disorder condition. Many of the current pharmacological (105). However, nutraceuticals are not defined by U.S. therapies are unsatisfactory, not only because of their law and usually would be categorized as dietary supple- adverse effects profile, but also because of their general ments and regulated by the FDA under the provisions poor efficacy and high numbers needed to treat to of the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act. improve outcomes (81). Thus, more precise phenotyping According to that law, “Dietary supplements include a of individuals
