Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


numbers needed to treat to of the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act. improve outcomes (81). Thus, more precise phenotyping According to that law, “Dietary supplements include a of individuals with painful DPN might help to identify large, heterogeneous group of products intended to supple- subgroups of patients who are more likely to respond to ment the diet that are not better described as drugs, foods, a given therapy. or food additives. Supplements may contain, in whole or as a concentrate, metabolite, constituent, or extract, any combination of 1 or more vitamins, minerals, amino acids, KEY POINTS herbs or other botanicals, and other substances used to » Effective pharmacological therapies for painful increase total dietary intake, including enzymes, organ DPN include anti-epileptic agents (pregabalin and gapapentin) and anti-depressants (duloxetine and tissues, and oils. They must be intended for ingestion; sold tricyclics), although often effective pain reduction in the form of capsules, tablets, soft gels, gel caps, powders, requires higher doses that may be less tolerated or or liquids; and not be marketed as food items” (105). have a higher incidence of adverse effects. Several nutraceuticals represent biofactors required by » For those with severe painful symptoms not the body for its normal physiological functioning and may therapy with two to three agents may be effective activities. Essential biofactors are those that the organism at much lower doses, as well as combinations cannot produce or cannot produce in sufficient quantity, of pharmacological and nonpharmacological thus requiring supplementation from external sources. approaches. Such patients might also benefit from pain have failed. E, and K), minerals (selenium, magnesium, and zinc), α » Given the high risk for complications and the fatty acids ( -lipoic acid [ALA], polyunsaturated fatty modest evidence for benefit, the use of opioids is acids [PUFAs]), and amino acids (acetyl-L-carnitine) not recommended. (106). Dietary supplementation with certain biofactors » Painful DPN is not uncommon in older people with could be useful as a complement to established therapies diabetes, in whom caution must be taken with any for preventing and treating DPN because diabetes is prescribed medications. Starting at the lowest doses associated with systemic deficits in several biofactors, but with slow up-titration is recommended in such cases. favorable effects have also been reported in the absence of such deficiencies (107). 16 DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY Therapeutic Role of Nutraceuticals including not only neuropathic pain but also
