Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


also been reported in the absence of such deficiencies (107). 16 DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY Therapeutic Role of Nutraceuticals including not only neuropathic pain but also nonpainful In general, the management of DPN includes three symptoms such as paresthesias and numbness, particularly cornerstones: 1) causal treatment, including lifestyle if these interfere with a patient’s quality of life. On the modification, intensive diabetes therapy aimed at other hand, based on the results of the NATHAN 1 trial near-normoglycemia, and multifactorial cardiovas- (108), ALA (600 mg daily) can also be considered for cular risk intervention, 2) pathogenetically oriented long-term use ≥4 years in asymptomatic DPN to improve pharmacotherapy using specific nutraceuticals, and 3) neuropathic signs (i.e., the underlying neuropathy) (108). symptomatic treatment of neuropathic pain (102). The The usual dose is 600 mg daily, but higher doses (600 available evidence for the second pillar is outlined here. mg twice or three times daily) may occasionally be useful For this discussion, only RCTs of single compounds if symptom relief is only partial (≤30% reduction). The (monotherapy) were considered because use of duration of RCTs using ALA in symptomatic DPN combination nutraceuticals does not allow for separate has been limited to ≤6 months, similar to those using assessment of their constituent parts, and uncontrolled analgesic drugs in painful DPN, which lasted ≤3 months. studies are difficult to interpret given the lower quality Nonetheless, these pharmacological therapies are being of the evidence they yield. used for considerably longer periods in clinical practice if The rationale for using nutraceuticals in DPN is residual neuropathic symptoms or pain persist. primarily to favorably influence the underlying neuro- Theoretically, there is a rationale for using ALA and pathic process and its clinical consequences rather than other nutraceuticals in combination with analgesic only relieving symptomatic pain, which is usually the drugs to enhance efficacy and synergistically target goal of analgesic therapy. The RCT results described the underlying neuropathy, but there are no RCTs to below are also summarized in Table 2. support this strategy. α-Lipoic Acid Benfotiamine Because oxidative stress plays a major role in the patho- Thiamine (vitamin B1) is a water-soluble vitamin that genesis of diabetic neuropathy, the rationale for treatment constitutes an essential cofactor of several enzymes using antioxidants such as ALA to diminish enhanced involved in carbohydrate metabolism. Benfotiamine, a oxidative stress and thereby favorably influence DPN lipid-soluble allithiamine homolog, is a
