Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


cofactor of several enzymes using antioxidants such as ALA to diminish enhanced involved in carbohydrate metabolism. Benfotiamine, a oxidative stress and thereby favorably influence DPN lipid-soluble allithiamine homolog, is a synthetic S-acyl is obvious (108). Among the nutraceuticals reviewed derivative (prodrug) of thiamine and has been shown herein, ALA has the best evidence in DPN. In summary, to inhibit the formation of AGEs (106). The BENDIP intravenous infusions of ALA (600 mg/day) amelio- (Benfotiamine in Diabetic Polyneuropathy) study showed rated neuropathic symptoms and deficits (i.e., signs or that neuropathic symptoms, with Neuropathy Symptom impairments) after 3 weeks (108). Moreover, treatment Score as the primary endpoint, were improved after 6 for 5 weeks and 6 months using oral ALA 600 mg daily weeks of treatment using a benfotiamine dose of 300 mg and twice daily, respectively, reduced the main symptoms twice daily but not 300 mg daily (102), while the smaller of DPN, including pain, paresthesias, and numbness, and shorter BEDIP (Benfotiamine in the Treatment of to a clinically meaningful degree (108,109). Several Diabetic Polyneuropathy: a Three-Week Randomized, meta-analyses confirmed the efficacy of ALA in symp- Controlled Pilot Study) study found improvement in a tomatic DPN (108). In the NATHAN (Neurological score combining neuropathic symptoms and signs after 3 Assessment of Thioctic Acid in Diabetic Neuropathy) 1 weeks of treatment with benfotiamine 400 mg daily (102). trial, which included 460 patients with diabetes and mild The incidence of adverse events did not differ between to moderate, largely asymptomatic DPN, after 4 years of active and placebo treatment. ALA treatment using 600 mg daily, neuropathic deficits Benfotiamine is approved and recommended by guide- (i.e., signs) were improved, suggesting a potential to favor- lines (101) as pharmacotherapy for treatment of DPN in ably influence the underlying neuropathy, and the drug several countries, but not in the United States or Canada. post-marketing surveillance studies have revealed a highly is symptomatic DPN, including not only neuropathic pain favorable safety profile (108). but also nonpainful symptoms. However, the number of ALA is approved and recommended by guidelines (101) available RCTs is lower and their durations have been as pharmacological therapy for the treatment of DPN in shorter than for ALA. several countries, but not in the United States or Canada. Based on the results of the BENDIP study (102), The primary indication for ALA is symptomatic DPN, the appropriate dose of benfotiamine over the first 6
