Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


injuries, and fractures; deaths: 1.3% (ALA) versus 2.7% (placebo). ||For GLA versus ALA. ¶Versus no supplement. + Indicates improvement compared to placebo. (+) Indicates trend toward improvement compared to placebo. − Indicates no difference compared to placebo. ALADIN, Alpha-Lipoic Acid in Diabetic Neuropathy; BEDIP, Benfotiamine in the Treatment of Diabetic Polyneuropathy: a Three-Week Randomized, Controlled Pilot Study; BENDIP, Benfotiamine in Diabetic Polyneuropathy; DPN, diabetic peripheral neuropathy; GI, gastrointestinal; IV, intravenous; NATHAN, Neurolog ical Assessment of Thioctic Acid in Diabetic Neurop athy; NSC, nerve conduction studies; ORPIL, Oral Pilot; PO, oral administration; PP, per protocol analysis; QoL, quality of life; SAEs, severe adverse events; SYDNEY, Symptomatic Diabetic Neuropathy; T1D, type 1 diabetes; T2D, type 2 diabetes; VENUS, Vitamin E in Neuroprotection Study; VPT, vibration perception threshold. 18 DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY weeks is 300 mg twice daily. Whether this dose should Vitamin E be maintained during long-term treatment is currently Vitamin E is the most abundant liposoluble antioxidant, being examined by the BOND study (110) assessing the comprising eight fat-soluble compounds (four tocoph- effects of 1-year treatment with benfotiamine 300 mg erols and four tocotrienols) protecting cell membranes clinical measures in individuals with type 2 diabetes and E (200 mg of mixed tocotrienols twice daily) did not symptomatic DPN. improve neuropathic symptoms over 1 year in people with DPN. However, in post hoc subgroup analyses, Vitamin B12 tocotrienols reduced lancinating pain among people Vitamin B12 deficiency can have hematological or with A1C levels >8% and normohomocysteinemia after neurological consequences, including polyneuropathies 1 year (116). Based on these data, vitamin E cannot be (1). Because of the increased risk of a vitamin B12 recommended for DPN treatment. deficiency associated with metformin treatment, the ADA recommends periodic measurement of vitamin Acetyl-L-carnitine B12 levels for metformin-treated patients (111). A In humans, the metabolic pool of carnitine comprises recent 12-month RCT assessed the effects of oral nonesterified levo-carnitine (L-carnitine) and vitamin B12 supplementation with 1,000 µg per day acyl carnitine esters, among which the amino acid in metformin-treated people with type 2 diabetes and acetyl-L-carnitine represents the greatest component. A DPN who had low vitamin B12 levels (<400 pmol/L). Cochrane review analyzed four studies in participants Oral vitamin B12 treatment improved neurophysio- with DPN (117). Although some favorable effects on logical measures, pain score, sudomotor function, and pain and vibration perception threshold were reported quality of life, but not MNSI score
