Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


neurophysio- with DPN (117). Although some favorable effects on logical measures, pain score, sudomotor function, and pain and vibration perception threshold were reported quality of life, but not MNSI score (112). Vitamin B12 (118), the evidence was rated as being of low certainty deficiency should be supplemented with oral vitamin as to whether acetyl-L-carnitine causes a reduction in B12 1,000 µg daily. The duration of supplementation pain after 6 to 12 months of treatment in people with depends on the cause and may be lifelong (e.g., in DPN (117). pernicious anemia or after bariatric surgery). Treatment Polyunsaturated Fatty Acids of DPN with vitamin B12 in the absence of vitamin B12 deficiency is not indicated. An early RCT reported favorable effects of treatment with γ the PUFA -linolenic acid (GLA) for 1 year on multiple Vitamin D neurophysiological and clinical parameters in individuals Obesity, prediabetes, and type 2 diabetes constitute with DPN (119). In a recent 12-week, multicenter, nonin- important risk factors for vitamin D deficiency. There is feriority RCT trial comparing the efficacy of GLA (320 also accumulating evidence suggesting a link between mg/day) and ALA (600 mg/day) in participants with type low systemic vitamin D levels and DPN (113). In a 2 diabetes and painful DPN, both neuropathic symptoms randomized, open-label study in participants with type 2 and pain improved after 12 weeks, and GLA was nonin- diabetes and DPN, the majority of whom were vitamin ferior to ALA in reducing pain intensity (120). Further D deficient, improvements in neuropathic symptoms and studies are required before PUFAs can be recommended deficits were observed after 24 weeks of high-dose vitamin for DPN treatment. D treatment (40,000 IU/week) compared to a control Magnesium group supplemented with vitamin D 5,000 IU/week (114). Thus, further studies are needed to define the exact Magnesium is the second most abundant intracellular role of vitamin D supplementation specifically in vitamin divalent cation and is involved in several hundred meta- D–deficient people with DPN. bolic reactions, in which it mainly serves as a cofactor and In general, vitamin D deficiency <50 nmol/L plays an important role in carbohydrate metabolism and (20 ng/mL) is associated with fractures and bone loss. cellular bioenergetics. Magnesium deficiency (serum levels Severe vitamin D deficiency <30 nmol/L (12 ng/mL) <0.75 mmol/L) can lead to an enhanced neuromuscular dramatically increases the risk of excess mortality, excitability, including symptoms such as nervousness or infections, and
