Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


D deficiency <30 nmol/L (12 ng/mL) <0.75 mmol/L) can lead to an enhanced neuromuscular dramatically increases the risk of excess mortality, excitability, including symptoms such as nervousness or infections, and many other diseases and should be cramps of both smooth and skeletal muscle (121). avoided whenever possible (115). However, there is no Reduced magnesium intake and systemic magne- international consensus on the optimal level for vitamin sium levels are associated with both prediabetes and D supplementation, and recommendations range from diabetes (121). However, there no evidence from 400 to 2,000 IU daily (115). placebo-controlled RCTs assessing the efficacy of DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY 19 magnesium supplementation in DPN. In an open, KEY POINTS low-quality RCT, individuals with type 1 diabetes, with or without DPN, were supplemented with magnesium » Because the efficacy of both causal therapies for DPN and symptomatic treatments for neuropathic (Group A), while another group did not receive magne- pain is limited, there is an unmet need for a holistic sium (Group B). Magnesium in red blood cells increased approach considering pathogenetically oriented to normal levels in Group A but remained low in Group adjunctive therapies. B. After 5 years, DPN stages improved more often in » Based on evidence for efficacy in reduction of Group A than in Group B (39 vs. 8%, respectively) and symptoms and excellent safety from RCTs, ALA worsened more often in Group B than in Group A (12 vs. and benfotiamine (currently approved in some 61%, respectively) (122). countries, although not FDA-approved in the Magnesium supplementation has been recommended United States) may be added for the management of persistent neuropathic symptoms, including pain for people with diabetes and hypomagnesemia if other in DPN. dietary approaches fail to balance magnesium status » Confirmatory RCTs should clarify the value of using (121). Oral magnesium supplementation is safe in nutraceuticals in DPN over the long term. adults when used in dosages below the upper intake level of 350 mg daily, but because of its renal secretion, magnesium should be used with caution in individuals with kidney disease (123). NONPHARMACOLOGICAL In summary, given that the efficacy of both causal APPROACHES TO DPN AND PAIN therapies for DPN and symptomatic treatments for MANAGEMENT neuropathic pain is limited, there is an unmet need for adjunctive therapies. Experimental studies have The DCCT (124) showed in 1993 that tight glucose indicated that diabetic neuropathy can
