Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


MANAGEMENT neuropathic pain is limited, there is an unmet need for adjunctive therapies. Experimental studies have The DCCT (124) showed in 1993 that tight glucose indicated that diabetic neuropathy can be prevented control reduces the risk of developing DPN in type 1 or ameliorated by various nutraceuticals in animal diabetes by >60%. The same has not proved true in type 2 models by interfering with the pathophysiology of the diabetes, and, 30 years after the DCCT, no medication has underlying condition. Some of these findings could been convincingly shown to retard the incidence of DPN confirmed in clinical trials of DPN. cological approaches that might alter the natural history The efficacy and safety of several nutraceuti- of DPN or ameliorate neuropathic pain have received cals, including ALA, benfotiamine, vitamin B12, increasingly sophisticated evaluation. Treatments reviewed GLA have been studied in RCTs, some better designed interventions (HBIs), including exercise, dietary coun- are licensed as drugs and approved for the treatment including massage and biofeedback; and nonpharmaco- of DPN in several countries worldwide; however, they logical energy or nerve stimulation treatments. have not been approved for this use in the United States Health Behavior Interventions or Canada. ALA has the best evidence as therapy for symptom relief, highlighted by several meta-analyses. The DPP (Diabetes Prevention Program) and People with proven deficiencies in vitamins B and D and similar large, prospective RCTs demonstrated that a magnesium should receive supplementation to prevent curriculum-based behavioral treatment combining dietary worsening of DPN and other disorders. and exercise counseling delays the onset of type 2 diabetes The advantage of nutraceuticals is their excellent (125,126). Physical activity has been shown to delay the safety profile, but longer, well-designed, well-conducted onset and progression of DPN in individuals with type 2 confirmatory RCTs should be performed to establish diabetes or prediabetic metabolic syndrome, even in the the value of their use in DPN over the long term. absence of significant weight loss or improved glucose Overall, nutraceuticals have the potential to favorably control (127). It is no surprise, then, that the most recent modify the natural history of DPN, and there is hope ADA position statement on the treatment of DPN (1) that, ultimately, they will contribute to expanding our recommends lifestyle modifications that include super- therapeutic armamentarium against this common, vised aerobic and/or resistance training, alone or in combi- debilitating, and potentially even life-threatening nation with dietary modifications based
