Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


activity, should be regarded as medical therapy and with metabolic syndrome and those with diabetes. concurrently inhibits multiple established pathways in the Using change in intraepidermal nerve fiber density from pathogenesis of DPN. a 3-mm skin biopsy, either alone or obtained before Animal models of neuropathy in diabetes and predi- and 1–3 months after experimental capsaicin axotomy, abetic metabolic syndrome demonstrate that sustained sustained mentored exercise has been shown to increase exercise reduces hyperglycemia and consequent excess nerve fiber density and regenerative capacity in people oxidative and nitrosative stress; improves mitochondrial with metabolic syndrome or early type 2 diabetes (128). bioenergetics in both the nerve cell body and the distal Participants who show improvement in the greatest axon; enhances microvascular vasoreactivity and reduces number of metabolic syndrome features demonstrate the nerve ischemia; increases axonal transport; opposes the greatest improvement in reinnervation rate. inflammatory effects of obesity, lipotoxicity, and hyperlip- idemia; and enhances nerve regeneration after metabolic Mobility, Balance, and Gait Outcomes injury. Broadly, outcomes in human DPN exercise trials Exercise convincingly improves measures of mobility, can be placed in three categories: neuropathy progression balance, and gait and reduces fall risk in DPN (129). (e.g., exam, nerve conduction studies, and cutaneous nerve These improvements have been demonstrated with fiber density); mobility, balance, and gait; and neuropathic different modes of exercise training, including aerobic, pain and quality of life. resistance, balance, Tai Chi, and whole body vibration, as DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY 21 well as combinations of these modalities (130). Gener- Complications of exercise, including joint and muscle ally, training improves function specific to the training pain, hypoglycemia, orthostasis associated with autonomic discipline (e.g., therapy focused on balance improves dysfunction, and skin irritation, occur in more than measures of balance). However, aerobic training has one-third of mentored exercise participants with DPN also been shown to improve mobility, balance, and gait and should be expected (137). Ongoing monitoring of outcomes in DPN. In a controlled trial of multimodal neuropathic symptoms, glucose, heart rate, and blood aerobic training, moderate-intensity (50% heart rate pressure, as well as musculoskeletal and integumentary reserve) or vigorous (75% heart rate reserve) exercise status, is recommended. Supervision by a physical thera- intensities promoted these improvements (131). Current and surveil for injury risks. exercise intensity and frequency recommendations for Reducing Sedentary Behaviors people with DPN mirror the U.S. Department of Health Simply reducing sedentary behaviors (those that
