Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


Current and surveil for injury risks. exercise intensity and frequency recommendations for Reducing Sedentary Behaviors people with DPN mirror the U.S. Department of Health Simply reducing sedentary behaviors (those that do not and Human Services’ physical activity guidelines for increase energy expenditure beyond the resting level) is Americans (132), although lower-intensity activity has another strategy that might improve DPN outcomes. The also shown benefit and may be especially attractive for average awake sedentary time of adults >50 years of age individuals unaccustomed to regular exercise. is 8.3 hours (>500 minutes) daily. Restricted contraction Neuropathic Pain and Quality-of-Life Outcomes of postural support muscles alters lipid metabolism and Reduction of neuropathic pain is perhaps the most increases free fatty acid and adipokine release. Prolonged important outcome of interest to individuals with DPN. sitting also worsens insulin resistance. Randomized trials of scheduled aerobic exercise using Well-designed studies investigating the impact of modes such as cycling, treadmill, and progressive walking reduced sedentary time on DPN outcomes are lacking, but programs have reported significant improvement in epidemiological evidence linking inactivity to cardiovas- quality-of-life metrics over intervention periods ranging spent in aerobic exercise, makes anti-sedentary behavioral from 12 weeks to 4 years (133,134). modification an alluring future research direction (138). Less-intensive exercise modes may also show Wearable devices such as fitness trackers and smartphone benefit in neuropathic pain. Passive whole body applications, as well as research-grade accelerometers, vibration is a new exercise mode in which participants make accurate measurement of sedentary behavior possible stand on a vibrating platform and resist its effect to to provide feedback and facilitate goal-setting. maintain an upright posture. It has been shown in Dietary Counseling and Modifications small, sham-controlled, randomized trials to signifi- Dietary counseling as an isolated intervention for DPN cantly improve neuropathic symptoms, pain, and has received only sparse investigation, but eating pattern modifications may prove effective as part of a more compre- regimen significantly improved DPN total symptom hensive lifestyle treatment regimen. Components of a score, pain, and quality of life over the 12-week inter- healthy eating pattern ameliorate insulin resistance, improve vention, albeit with a 34% attrition rate (136). glucose control, and promote anti-inflammatory effects in Exercise Prescription and Safety individuals with type 2 diabetes (139). Key components of a The potential benefits of exercise among people with healthy eating pattern in the setting of DPN include calorie DPN are increasingly clear. Clinically, a formal exercise restriction,
