Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


components of a The potential benefits of exercise among people with healthy eating pattern in the setting of DPN include calorie DPN are increasingly clear. Clinically, a formal exercise restriction, processed carbohydrate restriction, and emphasis prescription can stress the therapeutic value of exercise, on polyunsaturated fats and antioxidant foods. encourage increased activity, and regulate progression to Obesity, and especially abdominal adiposity, generate allow tissue adaptation without causing injury. Exercise a potent pro-inflammatory state. Pro-inflammatory prescriptions for individuals with DPN should include cytokines and free fatty acids released from enlarged information on exercise type, mode, goal intensity, adipocytes are neurotoxic to axons. Calorie restriction was frequency, and duration (Table 3). Participation in more important than exercise for weight loss in the DPP weight-bearing exercise in individuals without severe foot and similar curriculum-driven HBI trials (125,126). Lipid deformity or peripheral vascular disease has been found metabolites and chronic cellular hyperglycemia activate to be safe. Individuals with DPN should seek medical pro-inflammatory cellular injury response pathways and clearance for cardiovascular risk before starting a formal contribute to oxidative stress, which inhibits mitochon- exercise program. drial function in distal axons. 22 DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY Concentrated carbohydrates should be avoided, while endpoints, but none has convincingly demonstrated emphasizing dietary sources of antioxidants such as neuropathy improvement with these therapies. green, leafy vegetables, berries, citrus fruits, and salmon. Spinal Cord Stimulation These dietary precepts are embodied in the low-fat and SCS, in which stimulating electrodes are surgically implanted low-sugar eating pattern outlined in the DPP curriculum in the epidural space, is extensively used for pain reduction (125) and in predominantly plant-based diets such as in failed back surgery syndrome and has been compared in the Mediterranean eating pattern (45% carbohydrate, clinical trials against best medical care (but not sham proce- 35–40% fat, and <10% of saturated fat) (139). dures) for treatment of painful DPN (145). These trials found Passive Modalities large effect sizes favoring pain reduction with SCS over a 6-month follow-up period. Modest pain reduction appears Thai massage (140) and other passive physical treatments durable. In longitudinal follow-up from a multicenter RCT and alternative medicine modalities have been reported of SCS, about one-third of recipients reported at least a 50% in prospective studies to provide pain reduction or reduction in pain compared to baseline at 60 months (146). symptom improvement in DPN, but without the size and/ Small, single-arm trials
