Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


in prospective studies to provide pain reduction or reduction in pain compared to baseline at 60 months (146). symptom improvement in DPN, but without the size and/ Small, single-arm trials and RCTs of high-frequency or rigor of trial design or trial confirmation necessary to (e.g., 10 kHz) SCS have reported 60–80% reduction in pain adequately evaluate their efficacy. These modalities include compared to best medical management, but also subjective neuro-biofeedback (141), foot bath techniques (142), and improvements in sensory function. The strongest evidence static magnetic fields (143). None have been shown to alter for 10-kHz SCS comes from a recent multicenter RCT that the natural history of DPN progression. randomized 216 patients with painful DPN who had not experienced improvement with at least one gabapentinoid Energy or Nerve Stimulation Treatments and had a VAS score >50 mm to medical management alone In addition to HBIs and passive modalities, other or with 10-kHz SCS (100,147). Of the 104 participants nonpharmacological approaches to painful DPN that have assigned to SCS, 98 responded to temporary stimulation; received prospective evaluation include decompressive 90 were implanted; 5 experienced implantation-related surgery and various forms of electrical modulation of nerve adverse events, with 2 requiring explants; and 74 reported or other tissues, including transcutaneous electrical nerve a 50% reduction in baseline VAS pain at 6 months and 72 stimulation (TENS), frequency-modulated electromagnetic participants at 12 months, compared to 5 of 95 participants stimulation, transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), randomized to medical management alone. Control and the previously mentioned SCS. These modalities have participants were allowed to cross over to 10-kHz SCS been extensively reviewed in practice guidelines, structured after 6 months of follow-up and showed similar significant reviews (144), and detailed reports from the Agency for improvement in pain measures as participants randomized Healthcare Research and Quality (136). None of these to SCS at baseline. Quality-of-life measures improved treatments has been clearly shown to prevent or delay onset significantly after 10-kHz SCS. Reported improvements in of DPN symptoms or to alter the natural history of DPN. foot sensation on standardized exam for SCS participants suggest improved neurological function, but also raise Electromagnetic Stimulation Modalities concern about possible examiner and participant bias in a In DPN, spontaneous ephaptic transmission from study that was not blinded or sham-controlled. metabolically injured peripheral sensory afferent fibers Risks for perioperative and long-term complications limit generates sensation of neuropathic pain that often the appeal
