Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


from study that was not blinded or sham-controlled. metabolically injured peripheral sensory afferent fibers Risks for perioperative and long-term complications limit generates sensation of neuropathic pain that often the appeal of SCS. Surgical and long-term complications develops a chronic quality through central spinal of SCS specific to DPN have not been reported except sensitization. Various modes of intermittent electrical stimulation have been trialed to interrupt pain sensation. of 32 peer-reviewed longitudinal studies examining SCS TENS and similar cutaneous nerve stimulation modes for other indications found a complication rate of 21%, offer a competing sensory experience, whereas TMS and with chronic lead migration or infection requiring surgical SCS modalities interrupt central processing of peripheral revision or removal in 10% of recipients (148). afferents. Although trial evidence for all of these modes Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation is considered weak, centrally acting modes (i.e., TMS and SCS) appear more efficacious than peripherally TMS using deep cortical stimulation has been reported in a acting modes. Several trials of electromagnetic stimu- 5-day, sham-controlled, crossover trial to provide significant lation have included change in exam or other measures short-term reduction in perceived neuropathic pain in people of neuropathy severity as secondary or exploratory with DPN, with a return to baseline pain over 3 weeks (149). DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY 23 TENS in various forms, including via dermal pads, as nonpharmacological therapies in DPN remains rudimen- via percutaneous needles, and as frequency-modulated strated the ability to sustainably alter the natural history of or pulsed stimulation (150) have been compared to DPN. SCS and high-frequency SCS provide long-lasting sham treatment in short-duration randomized or reduction in neuropathic pain in people with DPN pain crossover trials of up to 225 participants. A report refractory to medical therapy and may be recommended by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality in these situations. This potential benefit must be balanced (136) and other structured reviews of these therapies against serious wound, infection, and equipment compli- concluded that TENS treatment was not clearly cations that affect 8–22% of people with SCS implants. superior to sham for either pain or quality of life, with Among modalities considered to be primary pain therapy, more rigorous and longer-duration trials yielding less TMS consistently provides pain reduction, but there is no apparent benefit (150). evidence that this improvement can be sustained. Other energy or physical treatment modalities have low-quality Systematic Surgical Decompression trial
