Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


consistently provides pain reduction, but there is no apparent benefit (150). evidence that this improvement can be sustained. Other energy or physical treatment modalities have low-quality Systematic Surgical Decompression trial evidence and/or have not shown consistent neuro- Systematic surgical decompression, in which individuals pathic pain improvement and are not recommended. undergo surgery at multiple nerve sites in the leg that HBIs that include a combination of regular aerobic, are considered common sites for compressive injury strengthening, and balance exercise; reduction of seden- (e.g., the tibial nerve at tarsal tunnel and peroneal nerve tary behavior; and dietary modification aimed at reducing at fibular head), has been reported prospectively in a calorie intake and increasing plant-based foods and small uncontrolled series (11 individuals with DPN) polyunsaturated fats are recommended for every person and a single-limb trial using the opposite leg as a with DPN. Intervention should be tailored to each control (42 individuals) (151). These studies reported patient’s preferences and degree of physical conditioning improvement in neuropathic pain measures, with large to optimize adherence. Provision of exercise prescriptions effect sizes in the surgical subject or limb. However, and supervision by an exercise specialist to assess patients’ poor design, treatment bias, lack of sham controls, baseline fitness and risk factors, regulate progression, lack of follow-up data on perioperative or long-term and provide active encouragement can improve exercise complications of surgery, and lack of confirmation from behaviors and reduce the risk for exercise-associated other trials substantially limit the ability to interpret injury, especially in people naive to exercise or with these results. physical disabilities that increase their risk for falls. Acupuncture A 10-week RCT in 45 individuals with DPN and KEY POINTS neuropathic pain compared acupuncture at traditional » Regular aerobic, strengthening, and balance meridian-based sites to sham needling, using a VAS exercise, alone or in combination; reduction of for neuropathic pain and the 36-Item Short-Form sedentary behavior; and dietary modification aimed at reducing calorie intake and increasing Health Survey as a measure of quality of life. It found plant-based foods and polyunsaturated fats only nonsignificant trends toward improvement in both have all demonstrated positive outcomes for measures over the treatment period (152). individuals with DPN. Photon Stimulation » Exercise participation, guided by exercise prescription and supervision by an exercise Photon stimulation describes a group of therapies in which pulsed infrared light or near-infrared behaviors and reduce the risk for exercise- laser energy is
