Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


prescription and supervision by an exercise Photon stimulation describes a group of therapies in which pulsed infrared light or near-infrared behaviors and reduce the risk for exercise- laser energy is applied transcutaneously to associated injury. neuropathy-affected skin with the goal of increasing » SCS and high-frequency SCS provide long-lasting blood flow and cellular and mitochondrial metabolism. reduction in neuropathic pain in people with DPN Small, short-duration, sham-controlled, single-blind pain refractory to medical therapy but must be RCTs of the use of these technologies in DPN have balanced against serious potential complications shown a nonsignificant trend toward improved pain in this population. and quality-of-life measures (153). 24 DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION DPN, current treatment approaches target prevention of DPN and relief of its symptoms. Prevention and Our main objective in writing this monograph was to management decisions should be individualized and provide up-to-date information regarding painful DPN, might include intensively controlling blood glucose, as including novel mechanisms and risk factors contributing well as targeting other risk factors such as dyslipidemia, to the contemporary prevalence trends for this serious obesity, hypertension, and smoking, with both lifestyle and common complication of diabetes. Additionally, we and pharmacological interventions. sought to offer clear guidance to the greater diabetes care We have provided here a targeted DPN management community on the best approaches for screening and strategy that includes the currently available oral (e.g., diagnosis of DPN in individuals with type 1 diabetes, type anticonvulsants and tricyclic antidepressants) and topical 2 diabetes, or prediabetes, as well as on a broad spectrum pharmacological agents with evidence of clinically of management strategies, with the ultimate goal of meaningful pain reduction, as well as HBIs specifically ensuring access to optimal, evidence-based DPN manage- for painful DPN (Figure 8). Dosing regimens should ment for all people with this condition. take into account individuals’ age and comorbidities, The symptoms associated with DPN are dependent on the type of fibers most affected initially, although some and efforts should be made to use the lowest effective individuals with DPN may be completely asymptomatic dose for a given agent alone or in combination to and thus may first present with advanced complications mitigate side effects, while avoiding opioid therapies such as foot ulcers. The small fibers that convey pain entirely. Importantly, none of these agents should be and dysesthesias are particularly vulnerable to the regarded as lifetime
