Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


opioid therapies such as foot ulcers. The small fibers that convey pain entirely. Importantly, none of these agents should be and dysesthesias are particularly vulnerable to the regarded as lifetime medications, and periodic review of energy-starved environment of diabetes, which explains pharmacological therapy is recommended, with gradual why small fibers are the earliest fibers to undergo injury reduction of drug treatment in response to symptom secondary to diabetes. Thus, burning pain and dysesthesias abatement over time. Particular care is required in the are frequently the first symptoms of DPN. Both type 1 management of painful DPN in elderly patients, in and type 2 diabetes increase the risk of developing painful whom polypharmacy is common and the risk of adverse DPN. Women, members of some racial/ethnic minority effects is amplified. groups, and individuals with type 2 diabetes appear to be Given their excellent safety profile, many nutraceuticals at greater risk for developing DPN pain. have been developed, some with proven benefit for relief Periodic, flexible assessment for DPN risk factors and of DPN pain symptoms, although the potential of these symptoms and their trajectories over time should be part products to favorably modify the natural history of DPN of standard care for all people with diabetes. Although remains to be proven in well-designed, well-conducted earlier diagnosis of DPN could enable targeted treatment confirmatory RCTs. Several nonpharmacological to prevent progression of the disease and other adverse approaches also might alter the natural history of DPN outcomes, it remains underdiagnosed in many individuals or ameliorate neuropathic pain. These include HBIs such with diabetes today. Thus, DPN assessment, including a as exercise, dietary modification, or their combination; detailed history and at least two sensation and reflex tests, passive modalities such as massage and biofeedback; and should be performed annually starting at diagnosis of type nonpharmacological energy or nerve stimulation treat- 2 diabetes and 5 years after diagnosis of type 1 diabetes, ments. These, too, deserve more study. including in young people. Electrophysiological testing is In conclusion, we encourage all clinicians who treat rarely needed for people with typical signs and symptoms people with diabetes to strive for early recognition of of DPN. A complex differential is recommended, as DPN using the algorithms and tools we have described nondiabetic neuropathies may coexist in individuals with here and to bring to bear the requisite thoughtful clinical diabetes and may be treatable. Additionally, more recent evaluation and
