Bookshelf_NBK580224
KEYWORDS: diabetes, dpn, neuropathy, diabetic, pain, painful, treatment, peripheral, type, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms, diabetic peripheral, care, type diabetes, diagnosis


we have described nondiabetic neuropathies may coexist in individuals with here and to bring to bear the requisite thoughtful clinical diabetes and may be treatable. Additionally, more recent evaluation and implementation of a multilevel manage- evidence from large cohorts has revealed that socioeco- ment strategy to ensure that all individuals with painful nomic factors and health care accessibility are risk factors DPN benefit from optimal personalized care. for DPN. Therefore, clinicians are encouraged to incor- porate comprehensive assessment of the impacts of social and psychological determinants of health on DPN and to Acknowledgments address these impacts as part of overall DPN management. Editorial and project management services were provided by Debbie Kendall of Kendall Editorial in Richmond, VA. Because there are no FDA-approved, pathogenet- Figures 1 and 2 were created with BioRender.com. ically oriented pharmacological treatments to reverse DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY 25 Duality of Interest Interventions and Complications study. Diabetes Care R.P.-B. has served on advisory boards for Averitas Pharma, 2014;37:31–38 Boehringer Ingelheim, Novo Nordisk, and Nevro. 6. Tesfaye S, Stevens LK, Stephenson JM, et al. Prevalence D.Z. has served as a consultant to Allergan, Bayer, of diabetic peripheral neuropathy and its relation to Berlin-Chemie, Biogen, Cannaxan, Clexio, Grünenthal, glycaemic control and potential risk factors: the EURODIAB Mitsubishi Tanabe, Mundipharma, Nevro, Novaremed, IDDM complications study. Diabetologia 1996;39:1377–1384 7. Mizokami-Stout KR, Li Z, Foster NC, et al.; T1D Exchange Gamble, Stada, Takeda, Viatris, and Wörwag; he has Clinic Network. The contemporary prevalence of diabetic been a speaker for Astellas, AstraZeneca, Berlin-Chemie, neuropathy in type 1 diabetes: findings from the T1D Mundipharma, Pfizer, Sanofi, Takeda, Viatris, and Wörwag; Exchange. Diabetes Care 2020;43:806–812 and he has received research support from Mitsubishi 8. Jeyam A, McGurnaghan SJ, Blackbourn LAK, et al.; Tanabe, Novartis, and Wörwag. SDRNT1BIO Investigators. Diabetic neuropathy is a No other potential conflicts of interest relevant to this substantial burden in people with type 1 diabetes and is work were reported. strongly associated with socioeconomic disadvantage: a population-representative study from Scotland. Diabetes Author Contributions Care 2020;43:734–742 Lead author R.P.-B. reviewed all content, wrote the 9. Herman WH, Pop-Busui R, Braffett BH, et al.; DCCT/ introduction and conclusion, and co-wrote with L.A. EDIC Research Group. Use of the Michigan Neuropathy the section titled “Screening and Diagnosing DPN.” Screening Instrument as a measure of distal symmetrical A.J.M.B. wrote the section titled “Treating Painful peripheral neuropathy in type 1 diabetes:
