Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


1. Introduction NHANES data reveals that 33% of U.S. adults are overweight, (BMI of 25-29), over 35% are obese (BMI 30 or higher) and over 6% are extremely obese (BMI greater than or equal to 40.0) (1). Obesity is a chronic medical condition requiring long-term therapy (2, 3-5). If left untreated, overweight and obesity can increase the risk degenerative diseases such as diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia, coronary artery disease, and metabolic syndrome, and orthopedic problems. In addition, obesity can promote the development of various negative psychological effects, and can diminish one’s quality of life (6). Self-initiated approaches to weight reduction are often ineffective. We all long for a quick and easy remedy to cure it, when in fact, there is no sure cure. The only effective method to keep off excess weight is through life-long weight management and obesity prevention, involving physical activity, balanced with a healthy diet (3;5). Health professionals can help people become more effective at maintaining a healthy weight, or losing weight when necessary. Although 1998 NIH guidelines recommend that healthcare professionals advise obese patients to lose weight, the proportion of obese patients who reported being counseled by a healthcare professional has declined since 1994 (7). Yet the fact remains that a modest (10%) weight reduction in obese people is an attainable goal, and often results in clinical improvements of several health-related parameters, even if the individual remains clinically obese (3;8;9). This information should encourage health professionals to advise weight loss for obese patients and that they need not be overwhelmed by their inability to meet excessively ambitious, or unrealistic, weight loss goals (8;10). Smaller amounts of weight loss can still bring considerable health and social benefits. There is a great deal of misinformation about obesity in many countries today, including the USA. According to a survey by the Natural Marketing Institute, 59% of the general population would benefit from losing weight. Of them, 26% used weight loss products in the past year, 21% used prescriptions, 18% used over the counter medications and 11% used weight loss dietary supplements to maintain and/or manage their weight (11). Only some of these strategies are effective, as we will see in this chapter. Weight management counseling of overweight and obese patients deserves reconsideration and reemphasis by health professionals because it carries potential for health benefits. Obese patients receiving weight reduction advice from their physicians are significantly more likely to embark on
