Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


deserves reconsideration and reemphasis by health professionals because it carries potential for health benefits. Obese patients receiving weight reduction advice from their physicians are significantly more likely to embark on weight loss attempts than those who do not. Yet less than 42% of obese individuals reported that they received weight loss recommendations from their physicians (12). These findings underscore the need for increased health professional involvement in obesity treatment (4;10;13). When physicians are appropriately aware of, and include recommendations for lifestyle changes in counseling their obese patients, results are promising (12;14). Even more importantly, they should stress achievement and maintenance of a healthy weight before obesity becomes apparent. The 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans (Table 1) provides assistance in maintaining and achieving a healthy weight as well as reducing risk of chronic, diet-related diseases through promoting health and a healthy eating pattern (15). MyPlate.gov ( Figure 1 ) and the Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) recommendations (Table 2) also provide specific guidance on food selection to assure a healthful diet. The 2008 Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans provide science-based guidance to help Americans, ages six and older, improve their health through appropriate forms of physical activity (Table 3). These guidelines are all useful for prevention of weight gain and maintenance of a healthy weight for the weight loss phase of weight control, different physical activity recommendations are involved, and these are discussed in this chapter. This chapter focuses on steps health professionals can take to help their patients manage their weights more effectively, or to lose weight by dietary means when that is necessary. Table 1 Dietary Guidelines for Americans, 2010 (15). View in own window Risk Intervention and Goals Key Recommendations Special Population Recommendations Adequate nutrients within calorie needs Consume a variety of nutrient-dense foods/beverages with the basic food groupsLimit intake of saturated and trans fats, cholesterol, added sugars, salt, and alcohol.Balance intake of calories with energy needs Adults age >50 should consume vitamin B12 fortified foods or a supplement in crystalline formWomen of childbearing age who may become pregnant should consume foods rich in heme-iron and/or iron-rich plant foods with food rich in vitamin C to enhance absorptionWomen in the first trimester should also consume adequate folic acid via dietary supplement, fortified sources of food containing folic acid as well as other foods naturally high in folic acidOlder adults, people with dark skin, and those not exposed
