Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


physical activity that are appropriate for their current fitness level and health goals, because some activities are safer than others. Increase physical activity gradually over time when more activity is necessary to meet guidelines or health goals. Inactive people should “start low and go slow,” gradually increasing how often and how long activities are done. Protection: using appropriate gear and sports equipment, looking for safe environments, following rules and policies, and making sensible choices about when, where, and how to be active. Those with chronic conditions or symptoms should be under the care of a health-care provider and should consult the health-care provider about the types and amounts of activity appropriate for them. Women During Pregnancy and the Postpartum Period Healthy women who are not already highly active or doing vigorous-intensity activity should complete at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic activity a week during pregnancy and the postpartum period. Preferably, this activity should be spread throughout the week. Pregnant women who habitually engage in vigorous-intensity aerobic activity or who are highly active can continue physical activity during pregnancy and the postpartum period, provided that they remain healthy and discuss with their health-care provider how and when activity should be adjusted over time. Adults with Disabilities Adults with disabilities, who are able to do so, should complete at least 150 minutes a week of moderate-intensity, or 75 minutes a week of vigorous-intensity aerobic activity, or an equivalent combination of moderate- and vigorous-intensity aerobic activity. Aerobic activity should be performed in episodes of at least 10 minutes, and preferably, it should be spread throughout the week. Adults with disabilities, who are able to do so should also do muscle-strengthening activities of moderate or high intensity that involve all major muscle groups on 2 or more days a week, as these activities provide additional health benefits. When adults with disabilities are not able to meet the Guidelines, they should engage in regular physical activity according to their abilities and should avoid inactivity. Adults with disabilities should consult their health-care providers about the amounts and types of physical activity that are appropriate for their abilities. Chronic Medical Conditions Adults with chronic conditions can obtain important health benefits from regular physical activity. When adults with chronic conditions perform activity according to their abilities, physical activity is safe. Adults with chronic conditions should be under the care of a health-care provider. People with chronic conditions
