Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


with chronic conditions perform activity according to their abilities, physical activity is safe. Adults with chronic conditions should be under the care of a health-care provider. People with chronic conditions and symptoms should consult their health-care provider about the types and amounts of activity appropriate for them. 2. RATIONALE FOR DIETARY TREATMENT Over two-thirds of adults in the United States are currently overweight or obese (19). The percent of overweight and obese people has risen to this point over the past several decades, among men and women, all ethnic groups, all ages, and all education levels. From 1960 to 2010, the prevalence of obesity in the United States more than doubled, going from 13.4% to 36.1% in adults ages 20 to 74, although the prevalence of overweight remained relatively stable (20). In recent years the trend has begun to level off, with one large study finding no significant differences in the incidence of obesity in adults between 2003-2004 and 2011-2012 (21). However, the incidence of both overweight and obesity remain high, and with the medical costs for an obese person averaging $1,429 more per year (in 2008 dollars) than a normal weight person, attention to weight control and maintenance remains paramount for medical practitioners (22). Weight control has health advantages, and therefore maintaining or achieving a healthy weight is important for all Americans. Obesity is associated with an increase in mortality rates. Obese individuals have an increased risk of death of at least 20% for all-cause and CVD associated mortality (23). Excess weight might contribute to as much as 41% of uterine cancers, and 10% of gallbladder, kidney, liver, and colon cancers (. In weight control prevention it is especially paramount because once weight and adiposity have surpassed healthy levels, they are difficult to reduce. Therefore, it is important for health professionals to monitor the weights of all their patients and to provide anticipatory guidance so that those who are already at healthy weights remain so. The 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans (Table 1) stress maintenance of a body weight within a healthy range by balancing calories from foods and beverages with calories expended, by preventing gradual weight gain over time, by making small decreases in foods and beverages, and by increasing physical activity. However, this is easier said than done. The chapter will assist health professionals in operationalizing these recommendations. 3. EVALUATING OVERWEIGHT AND OBESITY This section outlines a
