Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


by increasing physical activity. However, this is easier said than done. The chapter will assist health professionals in operationalizing these recommendations. 3. EVALUATING OVERWEIGHT AND OBESITY This section outlines a stepwise approach for assessing overweight and obesity. 3.1 Assess Body Fat Burden and Health Status Before any patient is placed on a reducing diet, where caloric intake is greatly reduced, often alongside increases in energy expenditure, medical assessment of weight, fat distribution, and health risks is essential. 3.2 Measure Body Mass Index (BMI) as an Indirect Measure of Body Fat Burden Weight should be measured, without clothing, on electronic scales, which provide accurate weights even for heavy patients. Scales should be calibrated to ensure accuracy. Height is best measured with a wall-mounted stadiometer or against a wall rather than on beam-balance scales, which are unsteady and unreliable. Body fat is difficult to measure directly and accurately in clinical practice. Therefore, body mass index (BMI), which is highly correlated with total body fat and future health risks, is recommended as the best surrogate method of capturing body fat, although it can overestimate body fat in individuals with high muscle mass. BMI can be calculated using the following formulas (24): BMI= (weight lbs ÷ height inches 2 ) x 703 or BMI = weight kilograms ÷ height meters 2 (24) Table 4 presents the National Institutes of Health (NIH) classification of BMI values for adults (24). These values are based on abundant data associating higher BMI levels with higher health risks. Although individuals with the same BMI often differ somewhat in the amount of body fat they have, this is still a useful approximation that can be performed quickly and inexpensively in clinical settings. Table 4 Classification of Weight Status by Body Mass Index (BMI) View in own window Classification BMI ( kilogram/m 2 ) Underweight <18.5 Normal weight 18.5-24.9 Overweight 25-29.9 Obesity Class 1 30-34.9 Obesity Class 2 35-39.9 Extreme Obesity Class 3 >40 Individuals with a BMI under 18.5 are classified as underweight, whereas those with a BMI over 25 are considered overweight; those over BMI 30 are classified as class 1 obesity, those over BMI 35 as class 2 obesity, and those over BMI 40 as extreme, or class 3, obesity. In general, the orthopedic and metabolic hazards increase with increasing BMI. Tracking changes in BMI, as well as body weight itself, are easy to use tools for monitoring
