Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


3, obesity. In general, the orthopedic and metabolic hazards increase with increasing BMI. Tracking changes in BMI, as well as body weight itself, are easy to use tools for monitoring body composition over time, identifying those at risk for developing overweight and obesity, and monitoring the success of those undergoing weight loss therapy. 3.3 Measure Waist Circumference to Quantify Risks Related to Body Fat Distribution The distribution of fat on the body, as well as its sheer amount, also alters risk of some metabolic disorders. The reasons for this are becoming clear as the role of adipose tissue as an endocrine organ is more fully understood. Excess abdominal fat in the viscera, characterized by an accumulation of fat centrally (sometimes referred to as android "apple" or abdominal fat distribution or ectopic fat) is associated with greater risk of certain chronic degenerative diseases than is a peripheral fat deposition pattern (gynoid "pear" or lower body fat pattern). Although the causal associations between certain diseases and body fat distribution are still a matter of debate (28;27), measuring waist circumference in addition to BMI is still clinically useful in assessing risk posed by body fat distribution (24;5;28-31). Visceral and subcutaneous fat are difficult to measure accurately in office practice. Waist circumference, taken at the level of the umbilicus (belly button) with a plastic or other type of non-stretchable measuring tape, is a reasonable proxy for assessing the likely size of visceral fat deposits and the extent of abdominal obesity. Waist circumference is easier to measure and more straightforward to interpret than are waist-to-hip ratios. It is generally used as the standard in assessing central vs. peripheral fatness. The cut-points for increased risk are a waist circumference of greater than 35 inches (>88cm) in women, or greater than 40 inches (>102cm) in men (24; 31). Although the usefulness of these absolute cut-offs have been questioned due to the many possible confounding variables in their relationship with health, monitoring changes over time is advocated (32). Measuring waist circumference is most useful for defining risk in obese patients with BMI 25-35 kg/m2. Obese patients with BMIs over 35 kg/m2 already have elevated risk, so waist circumference measurements may be less necessary for them (31). Table 5 shows how risks of weight related conditions such as type 2 diabetes, hypertension, and cardiovascular disease increase with greater BMI and waist circumference. Patients with high waist circumference may need
