Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


options. 4.1 Assess the Patient’s Readiness and Willingness to Lose Weight The previous sections provide the rationale for assessment of the health risks associated with obesity, the potential health benefits accruing from weight loss, and the importance of then maintaining a healthy body weight. Weight control requires behavioral change, which cannot happen without patient buy-in to the process. Therefore, the health risks of overweight and obesity need to be communicated, and patient readiness to change needs to be established. Table 7 outlines the various stages of behavior change as conceptualized by Kushner based on Prochaska’s model of behavior change, often referred to as the Transtheoretical Model of Behavior Change (6). It is important to note many patients will not progress through the outlined stages linearly, but rather will go back and forth repeatedly among stages. Therefore, timing is important and the clinician must watch for an appropriate time to bring up or follow through on the issue. Table 7 Transtheoretical Model of Behavior Change (5) View in own window Stage Characteristics Patient Verbal Cues Pre-contemplation Unaware of problem, no interest in change “I’m not really interested in weight loss. It’s not a problem.” Contemplation Aware of the problem, beginning to think of changing “I need to lose weight but with all that’s going on in my life right now, I’m not sure if I can.” Preparation Realizes benefits of making changes and thinking about how to make change “I have to lose weight, and I’m planning to do that.” Action Actively taking steps toward achieving the behavioral goal, but only for a brief period (less than 6 months) “I’m doing my best. This is harder than I thought.” Maintenance Initial treatment and behavioral goals reached and sustained for a longer period of time (e.g., more than 6 months) “I’ve learned a lot through this process.” Often, those who are at highest health risk due to obesity are unaware of how serious their weight-related problems are, or are in deep denial about them. The consequences of excess weight, including long-term implications, must therefore be raised and carefully explained. Helping patients to draw connections between the short-and long-term health consequences of their current weight, and the implications this will have on things they care about, such as their family or the ability to participate in activities they enjoy, may aid in empowering patients to progress through the various stages of behavior change.
