Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


they care about, such as their family or the ability to participate in activities they enjoy, may aid in empowering patients to progress through the various stages of behavior change. Once patient readiness and willingness to lose weight has been established, a plan of attack needs to be jointly devised with the patient. Some patients are ready to start a treatment program immediately, and the patient and counselor are able to begin setting goals together right away. Other patients have reservations or other issues keeping them from reaching the action stage needed to embark upon their weight loss goals, making it important for the counselor to address these road-blocks before moving on. For patients who are not ready to act, the issue should be deferred and brought up again at the next visit, rather than dropping the subject entirely. Some groups of patients are unable or unwilling to embark on a weight reduction program at all. Even patients who are unwilling to embark on a reducing diets may be willing to take steps to avoid further weight gain, or may be willing to work on other risk factors such as smoking cessation or increasing physical activity. These activities should be encouraged. For those who are ready and raring to go, a referral to a registered dietitian should be provided where the subject can be addressed in-depth. 4.2 Decide if Dietary Treatment is the Appropriate Option Weight reduction with dietary treatment is in order for virtually all patients with a BMI over 30, as well as those with a BMI of 25-29.9 with comorbidities. A dietary approach to weight loss should be executed in the context of comprehensive lifestyle intervention whenever possible. This type of intervention involves frequent, in-person encounters with a trained interventionist in an individual or group setting, and incorporates a moderately reduced calorie diet, increases in physical activity, and the use of behavioral techniques to facilitate adherence to recommendations. The gold standard is a comprehensive, high-intensity, on-site program with greater than 14 sessions in 6 months, provided either in a group or individually, by a trained interventionist, and lasting for at least 1 year. When a comprehensive lifestyle intervention is not feasible, other dietary-based approaches, such as electronically based programs and commercial programs, which will be discussed in further detail later, can be appropriate alternatives (23). For some patients, however, a low calorie (hypocaloric) diet alone may not
