Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


of fat consumed. Use over one to two years can lead to a weight loss of five to seven pounds (35). Adherence to a reduced calorie diet with less than 30% calories from fat is necessary while on either Orlistat or Ali. Both Orlistat and Ali’s disadvantages include fat malabsorption, sometimes accompanied by anal leakage, and decreased absorption of fat-soluble vitamins. Because of this decrease in fat-soluble vitamin absorption, patients taking either version of the drug should be advised to take a multivitamin supplement containing fat-soluble vitamins to ensure adequate nutritional status (35). Dietetic counseling is helpful in managing weight loss. Lorcaserin (Belvique TM ) is another weight loss drug approved for long term use and is available by prescription only. Studies evaluating its effectiveness found that 47% of those who used the drug lost at least 5% of their initial body weight (35). Qsymia TM is another long-term weight loss drug that was approved by the FDA in 2012. Qsymia TM is a combination of an appetite suppressant, phentermine, and a seizure medication, topiramate. Studies found that after 1 year using the recommended dose of the drug, 62% of patients lost greater than 5% of their initial body weight (35). ContraveTM is the newest long-term drug to treat obesity, and was approved in September 2014. ContraveTM is a combination of bupropion, an antidepressant, and naltrexone, a medication used to treat alcohol and opioid dependence. Studies showed that after 1 year, 42% of the non-diabetic patients tested lost at least 5% of their initial body weight. (36). With all long-term weight loss drugs, if at least 5% of initial body weight is not lost by 12 weeks, use of the drug should be discontinued as it is unlikely to be effective later, and therefore the risks outweigh the putative benefits (35). Phentermine (Suprenza TM ), phendimetrazine (Adipost TM ), diethylpropion (Tenuate TM ), and benzphetamine (Didrex TM ) are modestly effective prescribed anorectic agents approved for short-term use (12 weeks in a 12 month period) by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) (35). Phentermine and diethylpropion are widely prescribed, as they are relatively inexpensive (approximately $30 for a one-month supply), and provide slight stimulatory effects. However, little research has been done on their long-term side-effects (39). The off-label use of bupropion (Wellbutrin TM ), a drug originally approved by the FDA for aiding in smoking cessation, has become popular in
