Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


done on their long-term side-effects (39). The off-label use of bupropion (Wellbutrin TM ), a drug originally approved by the FDA for aiding in smoking cessation, has become popular in the past few years for weight control. Bupropion enhances norepinephrine and weakly blocks dopamine reuptake and is being studied for the treatment of obesity. Bupropion could be considered if a patient presenting with obesity wanted to quit smoking as well and lose weight (38). Short term side effects most often reported are agitation, dry mouth, insomnia, headache, nausea, constipation, and tremor. However, its long-term effects on weight loss are not clear, and its use must be accompanied by a low-calorie diet if it is to help in weight loss. Topiramate (Topamax TM ) and zonisamide (Zonegran TM ) are anticonvulsants that were originally approved to treat epilepsy. They are also sometimes used off-label for their weight-loss effects. However, adverse effects have also been reported, most commonly difficulty with memory, parathesia, difficulty concentrating, and mood problems. These drugs are approved by the FDA for epilepsy only, and not for weight loss (38). Metformin (Glucophage TM ) is a diabetes medication that may promote small amounts of weight loss in people with obesity and type 2 diabetes. One study found that patients treated with metformin for diabetes lost 2kg more at 6 months compared to placebo, and maintained at 1 kg at 4 years follow-up. It is unclear, however, if weight loss on metformin is related to improved glucose tolerance or the drug itself (40). Byetta TM (exenatide) and pramlintide are sometimes used in treating the comorbidities of obesity. Both compounds affect the gastrointestinal hormones that regulate glucose homeostasis, gastric emptying, and satiety. Exenatide (Byetta TM ) is used as an adjunctive therapy for improving glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes who also take metformin or sulfonylurea. Pramlintide is an adjunctive therapy for patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes who use insulin at mealtimes. Usually patients with diabetes gain weight with better glucose control, however, with these drugs, better blood glucose control is often associated with weight loss, at least in preliminary studies. The most common side effect of these medications is nausea (38). Major disappointments have resulted as research on the once promising class of drugs known as cannabinoid (CB1) receptor antagonists has continued. Rimonabant (Acomplia TM ) was the first CB1 receptor blocker approved for use
