Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


as research on the once promising class of drugs known as cannabinoid (CB1) receptor antagonists has continued. Rimonabant (Acomplia TM ) was the first CB1 receptor blocker approved for use in the world. Its suggested use was for patients with a BMI of 30 or more, in conjunction with exercise and diet, to aid in weight loss. CB1 receptors are located in the brain, gastrointestinal tract, adipose tissue, heart, pituitary, and adrenal glands, and if they are stimulated, these receptors increase appetite. Blockage of these receptors is thought to decrease appetite. However, the FDA ruled that Rimonabant carried too much risk to be approved for use in the United States, with side effects including nausea, anxiety, diarrhea, and depressed mood that, in severe cases, led to suicide (38). In 2009, the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) also concluded that the benefits of Rimonabant no longer outweighed the risks, and marketing authorization for the drug in the European Union was officially revoked (43). Investigation into the cannabinoid (CB1) receptor antagonist class of drugs has since ceased (39). Other areas of research for future weight loss drugs include drugs combining appetite suppressants and those that affect addiction, drugs affecting gut hormones that influence appetite, drugs that work to shrink the blood vessels supplying fat cells, drugs targeting genes associated with obesity, and manipulation of gut bacteria (35). Sibutramine (Meridia TM ) was a commonly used obesity drug first introduced in 1997. However, it was voluntarily withdrewn from US markets by its manufacturer in 2010 after clinical trial data indicated that the drug increased the risk for heart attack and stroke. It should not be prescribed or used for the treatment of obesity (44). Some of the surprisingly positive effects with weight loss drugs are due the fact that the medications are not what they seem to be but rather adulterated and contain undeclared drugs. The FDA releases an extensive list of tainted weight loss products, many of which contain undeclared drugs ( Table 9 ) (44). If patients are taking any of these contaminated products, they should be advised to stop immediately. Table 9 provides a comprehensive list of these tainted products on the market from 2011 onwards, along with the undeclared pharmaceutical/chemical included in the product. There are also other drugs that may be added although they are no longer available for distribution through legitimate sources because of adverse and sometimes fatal
