Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


You Guo Slim Tea (Sibutramine and Phenolphthalein) Paiyouji Plus (Sibutramine) Perfect Body Solutions (Sibutramine) PhentraBurn Slimming Capsules (Sibutramine) Sheng Yuan Fang (Sibutramine) Slender Slim 11 (Sibutramine) Slim Forte Slimming Capsule/Slim Forte Double Power Slimming Capsule (Sibutramine) Slim Forte Slimming Coffee (Sibutramine) Slim Max (Sibutramine) Slim Trim U (Sibutramine) Slim Xtreme Herbal Slimming Capsule (Sibutramine) SLIMDIA Revolution (SIbutramine) SlimEasy Herbs Capsule (Sibutramine) SlimExtra Herbal Capsule (Sibutramine) Slimming Diet (Sibutramine) Slimming Diet Berry Plus (Sibutramine) Strawberry Balance (Sibutramine) Super Slim (Sibutramine) Super Slimming (Sibutramine) Sport Burner (Fluoxetine) Tengda (Sibutramine) Thinogenics (SIbutramine) Toxin Discharged Tea (Fluoxetine) Trim-Fast Slimming Softgel (Sibutramine) Ultimate Formula Bee Pollen Capsules (Sibutramine) Vitaccino Coffee (Sibutramine) XIYOUJI QINGZHI CAPSULE (Sibutramine) Zi Xiu Tang Bee Pollen Capsules (Sibutramine) Drugs for weight loss are of limited efficacy, some patients cannot afford them, and all of them have side effects. About one fourth of all individuals who are prescribed medications will not have the expected response (39). Patients who are likely to respond to drugs tend to do so within the first month of therapy. If they fail to lose four pounds (1.8 kilograms) in the first four weeks, the drug is unlikely to be effective, and it may be appropriate to discontinue its use. A loss of four pounds within the first four weeks generally predicts weight loss of at least 5% body weight by six months of therapy, if the diet and drug continue to be used (39). Dietary supplements purported to be helpful in weight loss are discussed in section 9.7.3 (Dietary Supplements and Weight Loss). No supplement currently on the market is both safe and effective for weight loss. 4.4 Rule Surgical Options In or Out Surgical options such as adjustable gastric banding, or more invasive techniques such as rou en y gastric bypass,, sleeve gastrectomy or biliopancreatic diversion with duodenal switch surgery are recommended only for patients classified as Obesity class 2 or above (BMI>35), or as Obesity class 1 (BMI >30) with comorbidities (23). Patients who opt for the surgical route must adhere to certain dietary recommendations before the surgery is performed to show they are able to follow a hypocaloric diet. After surgery, food intake is altered and meals must be smaller because gastric capacity is considerably limited (46). Patients will be required to adhere to a strict, multi-stage diet post-surgery to heal and adjust to new gut physiology short term, as well as to promote
