Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


stage are to drink 64 oz fluid per day 50-60 grams of protein a day for women and 60-70 grams of protein per day for men This stage lasts 2-3 weeks Stage 4 Small portions of moist, ground/pureed foods. Begin supplementing with a multivitamin plus minerals, Vitamin D with calcium (specifically calcium acetate), and sublingual Vitamin B 12 Aim for 60-70 grams of protein per day This stage lasts 4-5 weeks Stage 5 Small portions of low-fat (<3-5 grams per serving) or low-sugar (<14 grams per serving) solid foods At least 64 ounces of fluid per day Aim for 60-80 grams of protein Continue to take supplements Follow this 6-8 weeks after surgery and follow up with a Registered Dietitian Note: Post Gastric Bypass Surgery Diet Used in Tufts Medical Center is adapted with permission from Melissa Page, MS, Rd, LDN, Weight and Wellness Center, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, MA. There are many tools available to practitioners to aid in accessing obesity and its related health risks, as well as in determining appropriate treatment options. One such tool is the American Society of Bariatric Physicians Obesity Algorithm (292). Another useful tool is the algorithm in the “2013 Guideline for the Management of Overweight and Obesity in Adults,” which was created by the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines and The Obesity Society (23). 5. Set Goals Goal setting is an important part of achieving weight loss. This section outlines steps in goal setting that are successful for weight loss/ or weight maintenance. 5.1 Clarify Reasonable Goals In 1998 the National Institutes of Health (NIH) issued guidelines recommending that healthcare professionals advise obese patients to lose weight. Evaluating the effect of these guidelines somewhat later, one study examined the proportion of obese patients and those that actually received advice between 1994 and 2000. The proportion of patients that were obese and received advice to lose weight from physicians during routine medical check-ups decreased from 42.3% in 1994 to 40.3% in 2000. Among those that did receive advice to lose weight had 2.8 odds of trying to lose the weight opposed to those who did not receive any advice (48). In addition to the NIH guidelines, in 2003, the U.S. Preventative Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommends that clinicians screen all adult patients for obesity and offer intensive multi-component behavioral intervention to those affected individuals. Primary care physicians
