Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


2003, the U.S. Preventative Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommends that clinicians screen all adult patients for obesity and offer intensive multi-component behavioral intervention to those affected individuals. Primary care physicians play a critical role in screening adults for obesity and providing appropriate treatment (49). Even with these national recommendations and guidelines, it is still a challenge for healthcare providers to manage obesity (50). Another challenge is who is to pay for it, since many insurance plans do not, and many of those who are obese do not have the money to pay for treatment out-of-pocket. In 2009, less than 50% of obese patients received weight loss advice from physicians, citing many barriers to counseling and intensive treatment of obesity (50). This study concluded that there is a general lack of consensus about the best approach to weight loss; however, this can be improved if counseling skills are developed early during training of physicians in treating obesity (50). As demonstrated in the study mentioned above, those patients who received advice to lose weight were almost three times more likely to attempt weight loss, so it is important for health professionals to discuss weight loss with their obese patients. The approach used by health professionals when treating obese patients and helping them to set goals is most effective when it is non-judgmental, respectful, and empathetic. This allows patients to feel comfortable with discussing their weight. The focus should be on an acceptable weight to achieve better health outcomes rather than simply reaching a lower body weight (51-53). Furthermore, health professionals must always keep in mind that overweight or obese patients might be hesitant to broach the topic of weight loss, but indeed want assistance in discussing, setting and achieving weight loss. By speaking and working with patients as partners in reaching their weight goal, health care providers can play a big hand in improving their patients’ health. Understandably patients do not like the terms “obesity,” “fatness,” or “excess fat,” and are more receptive to terms such as, “weight” and “excess weight.” It may be difficult for health care providers to bring up the topic of weight loss, but for more tips and advice, healthcare providers can visit The National Institutes of Health’s Weight Control Information Network (WIN) at http://win.niddk.nih.gov/publications/talking.htm for more information on discussing obesity with patients and for some examples of how to bring up the topic of weight loss with
