Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


Weight Control Information Network (WIN) at http://win.niddk.nih.gov/publications/talking.htm for more information on discussing obesity with patients and for some examples of how to bring up the topic of weight loss with patients. Determining whether a patient is motivated to lose weight is pertinent and the first order of business, since patient involvement and investment are essential for weight loss success. If a patient is not ready to engage in weight loss, discuss the importance of weight maintenance and physical activity at visits until the patient is ready to begin weight loss therapy (24). Once the patient expresses the desire to lose weight, determine the patient’s weight-related goals and ascertain that goals are realistic and attainable. Agreeing on realistic goals facilitates maintenance of weight loss (54). Unrealistic goals should be discussed and made into more achievable ones. Additionally, patients need to be reassured that the counselor, or healthcare provider, is interested in their health as individuals. Providers should not assume that all of their obese patients’ health problems are weight-related (55), nor should they fail to treat these other problems even if the patients refuse treatment for the obesity. The health care professional’s job is to reduce health risks and improve quality of life to the greatest extent possible within patients’ wishes (56). On their own, patients often choose to lose weight using drastic measures, such as fasting or very, very low calorie diets, to get fast results even though there is no evidence that they are the best for losing weight. Healthy weight loss is key for long-term weight maintenance (54;57). Intensive, very low-calorie diets (VLCDs; e.g., ≤800 calories per day and especially <500 calories) produce significantly greater initial weight loss, however, these results are often not maintained over time (58). In a study done in 2008, participants were enrolled in a program designed to help maintain weight loss. Participants all initially lost weight using one of three methods, VLCD, commercial programs or a self-guided approach. At the start of the study, those who had used a VLCD lost up to 24% of highest body weight in the last two year compared to those in the commercial programs and self-guided approaches who lost 17%. Results showed that those who used a VLCD regained significantly more weight than the other two groups by six months in the weight maintenance program. However, those who had lost weight using a self-guided method were able
