Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


VLCD regained significantly more weight than the other two groups by six months in the weight maintenance program. However, those who had lost weight using a self-guided method were able to maintain their initial weight loss with great success (58). It should be emphasized that the primary reason for losing weight is for better health outcomes; therefore, weight loss should occur by using healthy methods, ones that can be maintained throughout life. Concentrating on improving health outcomes and other risk factors rather than simply on weight loss is vital. Once it is established the patient is motivated, health professionals should begin by working with the patient to set realistic, achievable, and sustainable weight loss goals (57). From the medical perspective, an ideal weight goal is one that will maximize heath related effects while minimizing disruption to the patient’s quality of life. This allows the patient to incorporate dietary changes into daily life and therefore incorporate them into their lifestyle to maintain weight loss. Physicians have access to measurements of weight-related risk factors that will be improved if weight is lost. Therefore they are uniquely qualified to define and communicate what a "healthier" weight should be for the patient. Nurse practitioners, registered dietitians, physician assistants, and others should reinforce the message the physician gives, and carry out the actual therapy. There is no single target weight that will meet every one’s goals. Optimal weight reduction targets vary depending on the patient’s weight and co-morbidities. Progress toward healthier weight goals should involve a gradual approach that minimizes health risks and is timed to the patient’s level of readiness. Excess emphasis on aesthetic and cosmetic aspects of weight loss should be avoided. Most patients may have unrealistic ideas of how much better they will look with weight loss so it is important to stress the health advantages of even modest weight loss (i.e. a half-pound per week) (59). While some cosmetic improvement is possible with a weight loss of five to ten pounds, it rarely meets the patients’ expectations, which can be discouraging. Patients need to have a realistic weight loss target set for themselves, which they have developed during counseling session with a health professional. In time, greater weight loss may be possible if realistic goals are adopted, met, and sustained. The aesthetic and cosmetic effects of weight loss are "extra benefits." The primary medical concern is to help the patient lose
