Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


possible if realistic goals are adopted, met, and sustained. The aesthetic and cosmetic effects of weight loss are "extra benefits." The primary medical concern is to help the patient lose enough weight to improve or maintain his/her health. 5.2 Adopt Realistic Goals that Include Health Objectives A healthy target for loss is usually to achieve a weight loss of one-half to two pounds of body weight each week over six months (24 weeks), leading to a decrease of 5 to 10% in body weight from baseline. For example a 250 pound, 5’6’’ woman with a BMI of 40 that lost 12.5 pounds over six months, would have a 5% weight loss, and an ending BMI of 38.5. A 10% weight loss would result in a BMI of 36.3. The goal is to maintain this weight loss over time, and that is never easy. A weight loss of 5 to 10% is achievable and moderate enough to decrease some obesity-related risk factors, such as type 2 diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular disease, and sleep apnea (9). The recommendation of dieting for six months rather than a longer amount of time is a practical one because after about six months, most patients have great difficulty sustaining adherence to any diet, particularly if it is very rigorous. Weight plateaus as energy intake fluctuates and resting metabolic rate and energy output decrease. After six months of weight loss, patients should focus on maintenance of the weight loss through a combination of diet therapy, physical activity, and behavior modification. If successful, after several months they can start a weight loss cycle again. When patients do not engage in a weight management program that includes all three components, the risk they will regain all or some of the weight increases (57;60). Most individuals regain one-third of their lost weight in one year, and nearly half return to their original weight within five years (54). The more frequently a patient has contact with his/her health care provider, the weight loss and maintenance outcomes tend to be more successful (57). 5.3 Define Successful Outcomes for Weight Reduction with the Patient Patient weight goals depend on their motivation and their perception of health risks, in addition to other aspects of their lives unrelated to health outcomes. Some patients simply are not motivated to lose weight, or they may be motivated but unwilling or unable to make any changes at present. It
