Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


lives unrelated to health outcomes. Some patients simply are not motivated to lose weight, or they may be motivated but unwilling or unable to make any changes at present. It is unreasonable provide an unmotivated patient a weight loss goal that they do not wish to achieve. Instead it would be beneficial to come to an agreement about the steps the patient is willing to take to begin to improve their health. One of the newer techniques used in counseling is “ motivational interviewing ” (MI); an egalitarian, empathetic approach to counseling. It uses specifics strategies, such as reflective listening, positive affirmation, and agenda setting to engage the patient in health behavior changes that will facilitate weight loss. The goal in MI is to assist individuals to work through their ambivalence about behavior change and to find what motivates them internally. Patients understandably often have strong aversions to the weight loss process, so MI counselors reflect the patient’s doubts and work through those with the patient. The process also provides opportunities for the patient to voice concerns about remaining overweight or gaining even more weight, which might serve as motivation to begin losing weight or gaining more control of their weight. MI can be more effective than the counselor simply stating facts to counter the beliefs and doubts of the patient and often enables patients to develop their own reasons and plans for change. Individuals are more likely to accept and act upon their own choices and opinions when they voice them themselves (30). For patients who are already motivated, the weight loss process can begin much faster because the patient is already willing to make changes. However, it is important to check what they think they will accomplish and when. Their patients’ weight loss targets are often unrealistically low and their time frames unrealistically short (e.g., targets of 25% or more of body weight in a few weeks rather than many months). Numerous studies have shown that obese individuals hope to lose 25 to 35% of their initial weight within a year or less after beginning obesity treatment. Realistically, patients lose only 5 to 15% of their initial weight over a year after beginning any kind of obesity treatment. Unfortunately, many dieters still maintain unrealistic standards even when they are repeatedly informed that their goals may be unrealistic (61). For example, in one recent assessment, the before-treatment weight loss
