Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


Unfortunately, many dieters still maintain unrealistic standards even when they are repeatedly informed that their goals may be unrealistic (61). For example, in one recent assessment, the before-treatment weight loss goals of 45 obese women were assessed, and the women were randomized into a behaviorally based weight-loss program over 48 weeks. While 8 to 10% of weight loss would have been a success from a medical perspective, the women identified a loss of 32% of their body weight as ideal. At the conclusion of their 48-week treatment, the women lost an average of 16% of their total body weight. Even though their weight loss was more than medically expected, the women collectively considered this loss to be “disappointing” (54). This study illustrated how most patients’ ideal weight loss goals are unrealistic and often two to three times what most patients achieve (62). For these types of patients, counseling on more realistic targets and time frames is helpful. Because patient weight goals are often very different from those of their healthcare providers, health professionals must clearly understand patient expectations for treatment and understand the rationale behind these patient expectations. It may be necessary to work with the patient to re-evaluate changes in expectations over the course of treatment (54). Providing patients with verbal and written information on how much weight they can expect to lose with obesity treatment is helpful in communicating and setting realistic weight loss goals (61). When patients’ ideals of drastic weight loss are not met within their preferred time frame it leads to disappointment and frustration, so these dramatic goals must be addressed at the onset of treatment. It is also important to praise patients once they begin to make positive behavior changes. It helps them feel as though their efforts have been acknowledged and motivates them to maintain their new habits and continue to lose weight or stop gaining more weight. Health professionals should be sure to frequently remind their patients of the health benefits that a 5 to 10% weight loss will offer. 5.4 Define Dieting Success in Broader Terms than Weight Loss Alone Definitions of success are always patient-specific, but health professionals should emphasize the importance of health outcomes rather than how the patient would like to look as their definition of weight loss success. The definition of successful obesity treatment includes goals other than weight loss, and these broader health goals need to
