Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


would like to look as their definition of weight loss success. The definition of successful obesity treatment includes goals other than weight loss, and these broader health goals need to be communicated to patients. The reduction of risk factors and co-morbidities, even if weight is not lost, is a "success" from the health standpoint. For some patients, prevention of further weight gain after years of a slow, steady increase in weight is “progress.” The maintenance of a reduced weight, even if it is still within the range of obesity as clinically defined, is also a "success". Some outcomes to focus on include improved metabolic profiles such as, lower blood pressure, serum cholesterol, or fasting blood glucose. The following health behavior changes also denote success: increased daily physical activity and fitness; greater healthfulness of eating patterns, such as more consumption of fruits, vegetables and fiber; and reduction in dietary fat. Changes in specific unhealthful habits such as smoking, or overindulgence in alcoholic beverages, are also reasonable measures of success that may help enhance self-esteem, self-efficacy, quality of life and functional capacity (24;5). 5.5 Set an Individualized "Healthier Weight" Target with the Patient Patients can be unreasonably hard on themselves and fear that losing weight requires drastic measures. An initial healthy weight goal of 1-2 BMI units often requires much less extreme measures than patients think. For example, a 5’4’’ woman weighing 250 pounds with a BMI of 43 losing 5% of her body weight, or 12.5 pounds, will have an ending BMI of 41. This amount of weight loss could take up to 25 weeks, if she loses one-half a pound per week. Weight loss of one-half a pound to two pounds per week is reasonable and offers the best chance for long-term success, but for extremely heavy people, this may take many months or years. However, as mentioned before, weight loss of even 10% of initial body weight, if sustained, significantly reduces risks of coronary heart disease and other co-morbidities (9;63). Obese patients often expect to lose 25% to 35% of their initial weight over the first year of obesity treatment. Dieters often maintain these expectations even when they are repeatedly informed that their goals are likely unrealistic —even with pharmacological treatment, so the message needs to be repeated (61). 5.6 A Reasonable Target: 10% Loss of Body Weight over 6 Months A 10% weight loss target can be achieved
