Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


pharmacological treatment, so the message needs to be repeated (61). 5.6 A Reasonable Target: 10% Loss of Body Weight over 6 Months A 10% weight loss target can be achieved in most patients with a caloric deficit of 500 to 1,000 calories per day, leading to losses of one pound to two pounds per week. For women, a weight reduction plan of eating approximately 1,000 to 1,200 calories per day is suitable. According to the National Institutes of Health and the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, a 1,200 - 1,600 calorie allowance for men or women who weigh 165 pounds, or more, and who exercise regularly is recommended. These calorie amounts along with increased physical activity and behavioral modification will likely produce a caloric deficit to achieve the targeted weight loss plan of one to two pounds per week (64).With a caloric deficit of 500 to 1000 calories per day, if followed with perfect adherence, after six months, weight loss of 26 to 52 pounds would be expected. However, in reality, losses are usually between 20 to 25 pounds, since adherence is never perfect (65). A decrease of one BMI unit usually represents a loss of 10 to 15 pounds, but the exact amount depends on height and weight. A decrease in two BMI units over six months is another way of stating a weight loss goal. Reductions of this magnitude in weight usually decrease several weight-related risk factors such as blood glucose and blood pressure, which should result in better overall health. In addition, patients’ clothing is likely to fit better and their appearance should be trimmer. If further weight reduction is necessary after 10% of initial body weight is lost, it can be attempted with an increased calorie deficit after prior weight loss has been maintained for several months. Medical nutrition therapy for obesity should last at least six months or until weight loss goals are achieved. After that it is vital to begin a weight maintenance program that includes the same three components used for initial weight loss, diet, physical activity, and behavior change to help prevent weight regain and maintain the patient’s new, healthy lifestyle (57). In addition, the patient should have a strong social support network of encouraging friends and family, and/ or participate in a group where others are also undergoing weight loss treatment. With a strong social support network it is easier
