Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


support network of encouraging friends and family, and/ or participate in a group where others are also undergoing weight loss treatment. With a strong social support network it is easier for patients to continue his/her healthier lifestyle (66). 5.7 Set an Increased Physical Activity Goal Physical activity is important in weight loss. Physical activity and exercise are not synonymous. Both are desirable but the first is essential. If left on their own, most dieters become more sedentary during weight loss, especially if diets are very low in calories. This is because a markedly negative energy balance reduces exercise tolerance, the body’s maximal power output and increases the body’s sense of perceived exertion (67). Therefore, conscious efforts to increase physical activity while dieting should be attempted. However, physical activity alone, without a reduction of calories, only induces modest reductions in body weight. Few studies to date have incorporated enough physical activity to achieve even a 5% weight loss using a physical activity intervention alone. When physical activity is paired with energy restriction, it has a synergistic effect on weight loss. Despite its modest effects on weight loss, physical activity is also essential for improving health-related outcomes relevant to many obesity related co-morbidities (e.g., heart disease, type 2 diabetes, and possibly some cancers)(68). Physical activity is also vital in preventing weight regain and may enhance quality of life (69). There is a strong association between physical activity at follow-up and maintenance of weight loss. Data from the National Weight Control Registry, a registry of more than 3,000 individuals who have successfully maintained at least a 30-pound weight loss for a minimum of one year, shows that 90% of the individuals report that physical activity is crucial to their long-term weight maintenance. They report expending, on average, 2,700 calories per week in exercise, the energy equivalent of walking four miles seven days a week (70). 5.8 Individualize the Diet and Treatment Program Evidence-based reviews of successful weight control techniques increasingly emphasize the importance of individualized, multidisciplinary care in addition to realistic goals that are focused on health-outcomes and making permanent lifestyle changes, including an increase in physical activity (65;71). The specific factors that induce a chronically positive energy balance differ among individuals. Daily lifestyle, environment, resources, and social situations may vary considerably. Weight loss strategies must, therefore, be individualized in order to promote adherence and success (5). No single diet works for everyone.
