Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


lifestyle, environment, resources, and social situations may vary considerably. Weight loss strategies must, therefore, be individualized in order to promote adherence and success (5). No single diet works for everyone. Different dietary approaches for maximizing adherence are successful to varying degrees in different individuals. If asked, patients can usually identify some strategies that have worked for them in the past and health professionals can build a program starting with these strategies as starting points. Previous pitfalls can also be identified and the new weight loss strategy can be tailored to avoid them. Candidates for weight reduction should discuss the approach that best suits their needs with their physician, dietitian, or other health professional. In addition to energy content, individual food selections, meal frequency and many other factors can be tailored to make the diet better suited for the individual. Some factors to consider include the diet’s cost, convenience, how it approaches treatment of co-existing health conditions, and whether it assists patients in adopting strategies for healthful life-long weight maintenance (72;73). Many overweight patients have already tried many times to lose weight on their own. For example, in the United States 50 – 70% of US adults are trying to lose weight (74). Self-directed efforts are usually motivated by aesthetic or social rather than health-related reasons. The goals they adopt are often unrealistically ambitious, the information they obtain on weight management is often inaccurate, and the motivation and support they receive is often inadequate. Solo efforts often fail and lead to discouragement and a sense of futility (75). The vital role of health professionals is to provide motivation, information, counseling, and support for patients to be successful. Throughout weight loss patients must be counseled on sound eating patterns. Some dietary education topics that should be discussed to help them are listed in Table 11. The National Institutes of Health ( www.nutrition.gov ), the American Dietetic Association ( www.eatright.org ) and other organizations, provide materials, checklists, guidelines, menus, and recipes to assist in such patient education (4;48). Resources for health professionals and for patients can also be accessed at websites such as myplate.gov, the American Heart Association (http://www.americanheart.org/ ), American Diabetes Association ( http://www.diabetes.org/ ), the American Cancer Society ( http://www.cancer.org/ ), and the American Dietetic Association ( http://www.eatright.org/ ). Table 11 Checklist of Nutrition Education Topics to Cover in Counseling Patients on Weight Management (15:57) Dietary Interventions Energy values of different
