Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


and the American Dietetic Association ( http://www.eatright.org/ ). Table 11 Checklist of Nutrition Education Topics to Cover in Counseling Patients on Weight Management (15:57) Dietary Interventions Energy values of different foods Food Composition (calories, fats, carbohydrate, fiber, protein) The Dietary Guidelines for Americans Portion control and standard serving size (individualized) Meal planning and food preparation Recipe modification Avoiding over consumption of foods with high energy content but little nutritional value Hydration status and limiting alcohol consumption Discuss health risks of obesity and rapid weight loss (monitor health with a team of healthcare providers) Physical Activity Increases in physical activity (individualized) Behavior Change Reading nutrition labels Cooking more meals at home New habits of food purchasing Mealtime strategies to avoid overeating Eating strategies for restaurants and social situations Awareness of physiological hunger and satiety cues Awareness of eating and emotions Establishing achievable short-term and medium-term goals Tracking intake and physical activity to keep accountability and records of progress Seeking support Patients should maintain daily records of their food and beverage intake; this helps to cue them to restrain themselves, and also the record is a visual reminder that it is important to watch one’s intake. Some may also wish to include their mood at the time they ate in order to help in recognizing reasons for eating beyond hunger. Record keeping often increases awareness of consumption, and promotes dietary adherence. Patients should be encouraged to review food records each week and to identify any patterns related to eating and behavior that they can work on for the next week. 6. Plan the Weight Reduction (Energy Deficit Phase) of Weight Control This section will cover guidelines for the calorie-deficit phase of weight loss. 6.1 General Principles For an individual already overweight, successful weight control first requires a hypo-caloric phase during which dietary intake is decreased while energy output is increased (or at least not decreased). This phase is referred to as the ”weight loss” "energy deficit" or "hypo-caloric phase" of weight loss. The essential components of weight loss, regardless of type of diet, are decreased energy intake, increased energy output through physical activity, behavioral modification and alterations in the environment that foster all of these measures. Although this chapter focuses on dietary measures in the treatment of obesity, all reasonable weight control programs should also include physical activity and behavioral modification. 6.2 Size of Caloric Deficit Needed to Lose Weight Obesity results
