Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


measures in the treatment of obesity, all reasonable weight control programs should also include physical activity and behavioral modification. 6.2 Size of Caloric Deficit Needed to Lose Weight Obesity results from the accumulation of excessive body fat, which is stored as adipose tissue. An energy deficit of approximately 3,500 calories is required to lose one pound of fat. However, there are several factors that can influence this particular number. These include compensatory changes in resting metabolism, the energy cost of work, and discretionary physical activity, which can sometimes alter this figure by 100 to 200 calories. Over the long-term, this relationship of 3,500 calories per pound of fat holds up quite well. Thus, it is the size of the energy deficit between basal energy needs and the energy output that determines the slope of decline in adipose tissue over time. How well this energy deficit is maintained throughout the weight loss period is dependent on a multitude of factors (76). In addition, creating a calorie deficit using this rule of 3,500 calories per pound may not be applicable to everyone. Work by Dr. Kevin Hall has shown that initial body fat as well as the magnitude of weight loss can influence the applicability of this rule (76). As previously mentioned, a reduction of 500 to 1,000 calories per day is recommended to achieve a weight loss of approximately one to two pounds of body weight per week (i.e. -3,500 to -7,000 calories total). Cutting down on alcohol, dietary fats and/or sugary caloric carbohydrates is a practical way to produce this deficit (70). 6.3 Goal of the Energy Deficit Phase The goal of dietary treatment of obesity during the weight loss (energy deficit) phase is to decrease body fat stores without unduly depleting lean body mass or otherwise compromising health. Lean body mass includes skeletal muscle and vital organs. During weight loss, some lean muscle tissue is always lost in combination with the fat loss, but the goal is to keep this loss to a minimum (64). While weight is shed, body stores of other nutrients such as water, vitamins, minerals and electrolytes must be maintained. Fortunately, dietary strategies are available to minimize loss of lean tissue and other nutrients. A systematic review found that increased lean tissue is lost if the energy deficit of the diet is too large in combination with rapid weight loss. In contrast, inclusion of exercise
