Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


systematic review found that increased lean tissue is lost if the energy deficit of the diet is too large in combination with rapid weight loss. In contrast, inclusion of exercise (both cardiovascular and resistance) and adequate dietary protein (60 grams per day, ranging from 0.8 g - 1.5 g per kg of body weight) helps to minimize lean tissue loss (73). These dietary strategies should be incorporated into dietary treatment plans to minimize lean body mass reduction and maximize fat loss. 7. Troubleshoot Diet Failures There are many factors that contribute to patients losing less weight than expected. This section describes how health professionals can work with these patients and address the issues that are coming into play. 7.1 Keep Food Records: Food Intake Varies from Day to Day and it is Easy to Forget to Diet Every Day People vary in their eating patterns from day to day. Weight reduction prescriptions are such that the patient should aim for a caloric deficit of approximately 500 calories per day, which would achieve weight loss of about one pound per week. This can seem like somewhat of an abstract since the patient may not know how many calories he/she is eating in the first place. Since most people vary in their food intake from day to day, they have difficulty recognizing if they are eating less than they were previously. For this reason, simply urging patients to "eat less" of certain foods in general, is unlikely to produce clinically significant weight loss. Specific advice is more appropriate and easier for the patient to achieve. Examples of specific actions that decrease caloric intake include, cutting down portion sizes of high calorie, frequently consumed foods; avoiding appetizers; eliminating a second cocktail; replacing a second serving of steak at dinner with vegetables; or ordering roasted, baked, grilled, or steamed foods instead of fried, deep fried, sautéed, or creamed items when dining out. Patients should also be advised to increase their intake of foods that are low in totally calories while also increasing the fiber content of their foods and replacing high-fat food with minimally processed, carbohydrates or proteins. A diet rich in food that is low in energy density, such as fruits, vegetables, and soups, will reduce caloric intake while also promoting satiety. This strategy is thought to be superior to a fat and portion restricted diet. A 2010 study evaluated the energy density
