Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


soups, will reduce caloric intake while also promoting satiety. This strategy is thought to be superior to a fat and portion restricted diet. A 2010 study evaluated the energy density of daily intake for three different groups. One group comprised overweight adults, another was of normal weight adults and the third consisted of weight loss maintainers (who had lost 10% of maximum body weight and kept it off for 5 years). Dietary intake was collected via three 24-hour phone dietary recalls and energy density was calculated using three different methods. Results showed that those in the weight loss maintainer group consumed significantly less energy per day (49). When the energy density of food is decreased, but the volume of food remains the same, calories consumed will decrease. In one study, the energy density of foods was lowered by 30%, consequently, daily energy intake also decreased by 30% (77). Providing calorie recommendations, and instructions to keep food and physical activity records, will help patients see what factors influence their weight. Patients who record their daily food intake (i.e., food item, portion, calories, time of eating, and fat grams, if desired) as well as their physical activity for the day, are more successful in weight loss and weight maintenance efforts than those who do not (78). Some patients find it helpful to write down their emotions during their meal times to help assess whether the patient is eating out of emotion or out of hunger. The National Weight Control Registry data indicates that frequent self-monitoring of caloric intake and weight helps patients to maintain their new lower weight (79). Patients who are able to self-monitor are more successful in weight loss efforts than those who do not self-monitor. Self-monitoring fosters awareness, an essential initial step in behavioral change. The Handbook of Assessment Methods for Eating Behaviors and Weight-Related Problems states that, “It is well established that self-monitoring or recording daily intakes via food records is a useful tool in weight loss programs” (80). Furthermore, the interplay among awareness, self-observation, recording, and self-evaluation can enhance self-management by improving how individuals attend to their health. A common denominator among all successful weight losers is self-monitoring (57;78;79;81). Patients who use food records report they have a heighted awareness of their eating behaviors, they recognize the need to make significant dietary changes and they are more able to “stay on track.” In addition, their label reading,
