Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


a heighted awareness of their eating behaviors, they recognize the need to make significant dietary changes and they are more able to “stay on track.” In addition, their label reading, fat and calorie counting, and portion determination skills are improved (81). These are all important skills that overweight or obese individuals need to lose weight and/or maintain their weight at lower levels. These are also skills for making healthier lifestyle choices throughout the rest of their lives, thus improving their overall health. 7.2 Self-reports of Energy Intake are Almost Always Underestimated The average, healthy, adult, American male consumes approximately 2,800 calories per day, and the average female about 1,800 calories. Yet, such intakes are seldom accurately reported in a diet recall or food log. Usually, the recall or food log will show a much lower calorie intake. Reporting energy intakes is difficult, even for individuals who have been trained to do so accurately. In other words, people are widely unaware of what or how much they are eating on a daily basis. Even small omissions or inaccurate portion size reports could subtract hundreds of calories from the total calorie consumption of the day. Several days of observation are necessary to achieve accurate calorie intake since energy balance is achieved over weeks, not days. Thus, a report from any given day is certain to have a considerable amount of random as well as probably systematic error when used to estimate usual calorie intake. Underreporting of energy intakes is common and usually off by a large margin (20%) in virtually every patient, and particularly so among the overweight population (82). Objective biomarkers of energy output such as doubly labeled water indicate that underreporting could be as great as 1,200 calories per day in very obese persons (83;84). Subjective reports of energy intake are often so low that if they were actually true, those patients should be losing weight. But in fact, they are gaining weight. It is biologically impossible to gain weight on a hypo-caloric diet, so underreporting must be considered (85). The most common problem arising from these errors is that patients’ actual weight loss is usually less than was desired. This could be a result of underreporting and underestimating intake. Typically, when overweight people report their intakes by recall, they often underestimate their intakes by 30 to 40%. These patients are likely to make similar mistakes in underestimating their intakes
