Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


Typically, when overweight people report their intakes by recall, they often underestimate their intakes by 30 to 40%. These patients are likely to make similar mistakes in underestimating their intakes on reducing diets because of difficulties in portion size judgment, forgetting, the social desirability of reporting adherence to the prescribed regimen, and other factors. This can be explained by the “flat-slope phenomenon,” which describes how individuals with a high intake of food tend to underreport their intake while those with a low intake of food tend to over report (48). For example, many people underestimate or forget that their very large food intake on weekends “counts”; or they forget to count alcohol, snacks, or something they may have had a second helping of. Thus, on a 1,200-calorie diet, actual consumption may be 2,600 calories or more on some days, and weight loss understandably slows. Methods for assisting dieters in minimizing diet recall errors would be to use household measures or weighing scales to determine the portion size consumed more accurately, in addition to the use of food diaries. Portion-controlled liquid meal replacements, frozen low calorie entrees, and other foods that are fixed in portion sizes might also be helpful in not only portion control but also in reporting that intake because the portion size is usually labeled (see 10.3 Formulas and Meal Replacements). Consistency in reporting intake does not necessarily mean that the reported intake is accurate, which is especially true for those who are morbidly obese. Underreporting is also especially pronounced among women, smokers, and those of low educational and socioeconomic status (83). In addition, those who underreport tend to be consistent under-reporters, and so they are difficult to detect since the records are all similar (83). In spite of these limitations, patients who keep food journals or diaries, are more successful in losing and/or maintaining weight loss than those who do not (78). Additionally, self-reports are useful for the patient and counselor alike to obtaining clues on dietary patterns that may be helpful in working through barriers to weight loss. 7.3 Remind Patients to Stay Active: Self-reports of Energy Output Tend to be Overestimated Self-reports of energy output as measured by physical activity questionnaires have been validated using doubly labeled water methods. Some lengthy questionnaires used for research purposes are quite accurate at estimating physical activity (86). However, the shorter questionnaires, used clinically, are not accurate for individuals
