Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


doubly labeled water methods. Some lengthy questionnaires used for research purposes are quite accurate at estimating physical activity (86). However, the shorter questionnaires, used clinically, are not accurate for individuals (87). As is the case with dietary recalls, physical activity questionnaires may be useful for self-monitoring, but should not be used for prescribing or assessing energy intakes or outputs exactly. Motion sensors (pedometers or accelerometers) have become popular in recent years. Accelerometers and pedometers provide objective physical activity measurements and are sensitive to walking (88). Either is a worthwhile purchase to help in self-monitoring of physical activity. Accelerometers measure the body’s acceleration in one direction for long periods. In contrast to the pedometer, an accelerometer distinguishes between different walking speeds and intensities. Many accelerometers also record the amount of steps taken, allowing comparison with pedometers. Accelerometers have been validated as accurate forms of measurement in regards to steps counted (88). On the other hand, pedometers are less expensive because they measure only step count and not walking speed so this may be a better option for someone who is not willing or able to purchase an accelerometer. Unfortunately, pedometers are less sensitive to detecting steps if a person is walking slowly (e.g., less than two miles per hour). When walking at this slow of a pace, pedometers underestimate step count by approximately 50 to 90%. However, if a person is walking above 3.5 miles per hour, most pedometers approach 100% accuracy in step count (89). If a patient chooses to purchases a pedometer, piezoelectric pedometers are best because they are more accurate than spring-levered pedometers. This is especially true for obese or elderly individuals, who are more likely to walk at a slower pace, because these pedometers measure slow walking speeds more accurately (89;90). If a motion sensor, either a pedometer or accelerometer, has a calorie counter built in, it could be inaccurate. Rather than focusing on the calories burned according to the motion sensor, patients should focus on the number of steps walked per day. Goals of a certain number of steps each day can be prescribed and patients are able to monitor their progress on their own. One common step count goal is 10,000 steps per day. However, most patients need to work up to that number so they should set smaller, more achievable goals until they feel they can reach the ultimate goal of 10,000 steps. The
