Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


most patients need to work up to that number so they should set smaller, more achievable goals until they feel they can reach the ultimate goal of 10,000 steps. The basic point is that if the patient can be induced to walk 10,000 steps a day or to gradually increase the number of steps he walks no matter how low it is, progress is being made, and the finer points of absolute accuracy can be disregarded. The ability for patients to quantify physical activity in a tangible way fosters commitment, encourages performance, provides a realistic goal, and eventually may provide a feeling of self-accomplishment. 7.3.1 Compensatory Decreases in Energy Output Occur on Most Reducing Diets Unconscious compensatory decreases in physical activity usually occur on reducing diets, particularly if diets are at a very restricted calorie level. These decreases in physical activity result in slower weight loss. As a rule of thumb, if a person is decreasing calorie intake by 500 calories, there is a corresponding decrease in energy output of about 165 calories. This is a result of decreased resting metabolic rate, decreased discretionary physical activity and a decreased in energy used moving the body, which results in only at 335-calorie deficit rather than a 500-calorie deficit. So, the caloric deficit may be less than anticipated and actual weight loss becomes less than desired (91). Energy balance seems to be more strongly preserved during energy deprivation than during energy surplus, which impedes weight loss to a greater extent (92-94). This retarding effect on weight loss may be due to compensatory slowing down of resting basal metabolic rate, decreased non-obligatory physical activity and decreased thermogenesis. By including physical activity during the weight loss phase, these alterations can be alleviated to some extent, through greater energy output and preservation of lean tissue (10). Health professionals can use this information as an additional incentive for patients to maintain physical activity. 7.3.2 Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans who are Overweight All weight loss programs should include physical activity. According to the 2008 Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans, recommendations for weight loss include engaging in 45 to 75 minutes of moderate-intensity activity per day. This can include activities such as, walking at least three miles per hour, participating in water aerobics, ballroom dancing, or gardening. Alternatively, individuals could instead participate in 22 minutes of vigorous activity per day, such as swimming, jogging, jumping rope, or
