Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


per hour, participating in water aerobics, ballroom dancing, or gardening. Alternatively, individuals could instead participate in 22 minutes of vigorous activity per day, such as swimming, jogging, jumping rope, or hiking. Once an individual loses weight, physical activity and exercise are still important for maintaining weight loss. For weight maintenance, 60 minutes of moderate activity per day or 30 minutes of vigorous activity per day is recommended. In addition, weight resistance activities, which involve all the major muscle groups, are recommended for two or more days per week. If these recommendations cannot be achieved, it is helpful to stress to the patient that t some activity is better than none. These national recommendations should be used as goals but it may take time to reach those goals. It is a good idea to start where the patient feels comfortable and confident that they can accomplish their goals before overwhelming them with requirements of great amounts of exercise. 7.4 Remind Patients that Shifts in Water Balance May Obscure True Decreases in Body Fat and Overestimate Fat-related Weight Loss Dramatic decreases in weight often occur on reducing diets, particularly in the first few weeks. This is especially true for those on severely hypo-caloric regimes (with deficits of 1,000 calories per day), those on ketogenic diets, and those on very low carbohydrate diets (95;96). The type of fluid shift (loss or increase of fluid) depends on the caloric level and macronutrient composition of each diet. For example, high protein, low carbohydrate diets increase obligatory urine volume due to greater urinary loads of nitrogen, ketones, and other solutes (particularly sodium, if they are low in sodium), and will result in increased fluid losses . Increased loss of lean tissue is also associated with large fluid losses because of loss of nitrogen from tissues, such as muscle, along with water, which comprises most of the lean tissue. Fluid losses are also more apparent on hypocaloric regimes that are very low in carbohydrate (<100 grams/day and especially <50 grams of carbohydrate), since they are insufficient to replete glycogen stores, and glycogen consists largely of carbohydrate and water. Shifts in water balance may cause very dramatic deviations from the usual linear slope of weight loss. They may also cause rapid weight accumulation over just a few days if there is a period of non-adherence. This is a result of the body storing glycogen and water when the
