Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


also cause rapid weight accumulation over just a few days if there is a period of non-adherence. This is a result of the body storing glycogen and water when the dieter eats a large carbohydrate load after a period of carbohydrate deprivation. Fluid accumulates rapidly because for every gram of glycogen that gets stored, three grams of water are stored with it. Thus, gains or losses of glycogen are associated with large changes in body water balance and water weight. These shifts can be sudden and alarming to patients (96). 7.4.1 Weight Loss Varies with Water Balance Shifts Water balance and weight often shift during the initial period of weight loss programs, particularly on very low carbohydrate diets. As glycogen stores are depleted in response to reduced carbohydrate intake, there is an increase in fluid loss, which produces an initial and often dramatic weight loss. However, the steep rate of initial weight loss will not continue. Patients should be reminded that one-half to one pound per week of fat loss is a realistic, achievable goal that will improve their health. Additionally, they should be told that it is difficult to continue losing weight at such a rapid pace. Since glycogen stores are likely depleted, and the initial diuresis has already been achieved, there is less water weight to lose. A recent position paper on Weight Management concluded, 7.4.2 Remind Patients that Fat Loss and Weight Loss Do Not Always Track over the Short Run, Although They Do Over the Long Run In the long term, fat loss and weight loss closely parallel each other. However, this is not necessarily true at the beginning of obesity treatment. The amount of weight that is lost over time, particularly in the beginning (the first several days) depends not only on the energy deficit from metabolic needs, but also on adherence to the weight reduction plan (76). Additionally, shifts in water balance may be considerable over the short run. These shifts can make it seem as though more fat is being lost than in reality. It is important to educate patients about these patterns so they are aware of what is happening to their body as they go through their weight loss program. 8. Set the Caloric Level of the Reducing Diet If a caloric level of a weight-reducing diet is to be set, the two general approaches include calculated-deficit and fixed-calorie diets. With
