Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


Set the Caloric Level of the Reducing Diet If a caloric level of a weight-reducing diet is to be set, the two general approaches include calculated-deficit and fixed-calorie diets. With calculated deficit diets, current daily caloric needs of the patient are either measured or estimated, and the deficit is derived by subtracting from those needs (70). Fixed-calorie diets have a pre-determined recommendation for total daily caloric intake, based on caloric levels that produce weight loss in clinical trials (70) Fixed-calorie diets include low-calorie diets (LCD) and very-low-calorie diets (VLCD). Calculated-deficit and fixed-calorie approaches are discussed in this section. Another approach, in which an ad libitum diet designed to produce a caloric deficit through restriction or elimination of particular foods, is described in section 9. 8.1 Calculated-Deficit Diets From the clinical standpoint, hypocaloric diets must be defined in terms of the energy needs of the individual and the deficit that will be created, since it is the size of the energy deficit that will determine the physiological effects expected. Ideally, energy needs should be based on resting metabolic rate (RMR), while taking into account level of physical activity. If possible, RMR should be measured (e.g., with indirect calorimetry) (70), since it can vary significantly from prediction calculations in obese individuals (97). Products such as the MedGem TM indirect calorimeter can be used in an office environment to quickly, easily, and accurately estimate a patient’s RMR (98), although caution should be used, since it may over-estimate RMR in overweight individuals [Anderson et al., 2014]. However, “if RMR cannot be measured, then the Mifflin-St. Jeor equation using actual weight is the most accurate for estimating RMR for overweight and obese individuals” (57;70). According to the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics Evidence Analysis Library (EAL), the Mifflin-St. Jeor equation accurately predicted RMR using actual body weight within +/- 10% of measured RMR in 70% of obese individuals (57). Of the remaining 30%, 9% were overestimations and 21% were underestimations. Table 12 presents this equation. The individual error range was a maximum overestimate of 15% to a maximum underestimate of 20%” (24). While the Harris-Benedict and WHO equations are often used in clinical practice with reasonable accuracy, results have been mixed regarding their applications to individuals who are overweight or obese. After calculating the patient’s RMR, his/her RMR should be multiplied by an appropriate physical activity factor to provide a baseline daily caloric level for
