Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


using fixed calorie reducing diet plans, that even with perfect adherence, individuals will vary greatly in their weight loss. This is because their resting energy needs and physical activity, and thus energy outputs, often differ markedly, and may fluctuate even within an individual. The National Institute of Health’s Obesity Initiative sponsored an evidence based review of low calorie diets (65). It found that on average, diets such as these reduced body weight by an average of 8% over three to 12 months of treatment, and that the losses were accompanied by decreases in abdominal fat, which is the type of adipose tissue deposition that is associated with highest chronic disease risk. However, no improvements were noted in cardio-respiratory fitness as measured by VO2 max unless the dieters also increased their physical activity (24). There are many pre-packaged meals on the market that fit into the low-calorie diet category, including Healthy Choice®, Lean Cuisine®, and Smart Ones®. Some patients find them useful for one or more meals a day since they provide a measured and moderate amount of calories per meal. Weight Watchers® TM , Jenny Craig® TM , and NutriSystem TM are more structured commercial programs that also can provide pre-packed, pre-portioned food options. See Tables 21 and 23 for a list of these programs and products. 8.3 Very-Low-Calorie Diets (VLCDs): ≤ 800 Calories VLCDs supply 800 calories or less, a total of 50 to 80 grams of protein, 100% of the Reference Daily Intake (RDI) for vitamins and minerals per day, and are designed to produce very rapid weight loss while still preserving lean body mass (39). VLCDs are prescribed as a form of intensive diet therapy, which require close medical supervision, and should not be used long-term. They are intended to induce quick and significant weight loss of about 3-5 pounds weekly, or 14 to 21 kilograms over a short time (11-14 weeks). VLCD’s are sometimes used to provide a jump-start to further obesity treatment. This is typically done through meal-replacement liquid diets (6), as described below. Any diet, regardless of its caloric level, that provides less than half of an individual’s energy needs can be considered a VLCD for that individual. However, virtually all adults have energy needs that exceed 1,000 calories per day, and therefore any diet below 500 calories, and for most individuals, diets below 800 calories, are VLCDs. Depending on a person’s caloric requirements,
