Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


needs that exceed 1,000 calories per day, and therefore any diet below 500 calories, and for most individuals, diets below 800 calories, are VLCDs. Depending on a person’s caloric requirements, other regimens that are higher in calories may also be VLCD for some people with very high energy needs using this same rule of thumb; for example, a 1,200 calorie diet prescribed to a man whose usual intake is 3,000 calories would also qualify as a VLCD.. 8.3.1 Uses and Candidates for Therapy These VLCDs are reserved for special uses and for individuals at high risk because of their potential for greater adverse metabolic effects and the consequent need for more extensive medical monitoring. Possible side effects range from fatigue, constipation, nausea, or diarrhea to more serious risks such as ketoacidosis and gallstones (section 8.3.4). VLCDs are often used when the health risks from obesity are particularly acute and threatening so that it is imperative to lose weight. Other individuals can usually reduce just as well on a LCD with less risk and discomfort (103). According to the National Task Force on the Prevention and Treatment of Obesity, VLCDs in patients with BMIs >30 are usually effective in promoting significant short-term weight loss, in addition to improving coexisting obesity-related conditions (e.g., obstructive sleep apnea, poorly-controlled type 2 diabetes, hypertriglyceridemia) (104). However, these diets require close metabolic monitoring (~at least every 2 weeks), and should only be prescribed and adjusted under the supervision of a physician specializing in obesity care. Medical contraindications include recent myocardial infarction, cardiac conduction disorders, history of cardiovascular disease, renal or hepatic disease, cancer, type 1 diabetes, and pregnancy. Behavioral contraindications to their use include bulimia nervosa, major depression, bipolar disorder, substance abuse, and acute psychiatric illness. The advantages of the VLCD for patients include a rapid improvement in blood pressure, blood glucose, serum lipids and often-psychological status. For those who require surgery, the rapid loss of weight may reduce some of the surgical risks associated with obesity. 8.3.2 Formulations Available The hallmarks of the VLCD are the low calorie level and a relatively high percent of protein; which is at least 0.8 grams, but up to 1.5 grams per kilogram of ideal body weight (39;105). Protein needs are elevated on VLCD because in the hypocaloric state, the efficiency of protein utilization for maintaining the body’s lean cell mass is lessened since some of the amino acids
