Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


needs are elevated on VLCD because in the hypocaloric state, the efficiency of protein utilization for maintaining the body’s lean cell mass is lessened since some of the amino acids are metabolized to produce glucose. Also, very heavy people who often are candidates for therapy have a larger lean body mass, and thus more lean tissue, as well as much more fat than their smaller peers. Even after adjustment for their greater fatness, total protein needs, which are most highly associated with the size of the lean body mass, are elevated. Therefore, higher protein levels may help to preserve protein nutritional status, although this remains to be demonstrated. VLCDs also have extremely low fat content and relatively low carbohydrate levels, making them ketogenic. Without special formulation or supplementation, the VLCD is deficient in several vitamins and minerals, specifically potassium, calcium, iron, zinc, vitamin C, vitamin B6, copper, and possibly other nutrients. There are two major types of VLCDs currently in use; commercial and "home-made" preparations. The commercial preparations include powdered products that are rich in egg- or milk-based proteins, are mixed with water, and consumed four to five times per day. The commercial products must provide at least 70 grams of protein by law, and often contain much higher amounts of high quality protein (70 to 100 grams), 50 to 100 grams carbohydrate, and up to 15 grams fat per day, plus vitamins and minerals in amounts to meet the Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDA). These products are formulated under FDA regulatory specifications. They are convenient and have a predictable and adequate composition when used as directed. Their major disadvantage compared to home preparations is their higher cost. The formulas or prepackaged meals are relatively choice-free and help dieters avoid contact with conventional foods, which in some cases may facilitate dietary adherence and remove temptation. Several commercial weight loss programs are available that provide an entire program of commercially prepared VLCDs plus the other essential aspects of a sound weight control program, including dietetic advice, exercise, behavioral modification, and supervision during the VLCD and post VLCD phases. The choices include the programs of HMR TM (Health Management Resources), Optifast TM (Novartis Nutrition), and Medifast TM . These programs employ health professionals who are trained in weight management, and a structured program that encourages adherence. The major disadvantage is that they are expensive ($3,000 to $34,000 for 26 to 28 weeks), and
