Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


who are trained in weight management, and a structured program that encourages adherence. The major disadvantage is that they are expensive ($3,000 to $34,000 for 26 to 28 weeks), and costs may not be covered by health insurance (105). Also, there is the uncertainty that the weight that is lost will remain so over the long run. Therefore a serious psychological as well as economic investment of effort in long-term weight management is also mandatory. See Table 13 for available program details. Table 13 Medically Supervised Meal Replacement Programs View in own window Program/Product and Company Description Is product medically supervised? HMR TM (Health Management Resources) The HMR Decision-Free TM Clinic Weight-Loss Program: food provided includes shakes, puddings, soups, entrees, bars, and multigrain hot cereals. Yes Medifast TM Provides special meal-plans for women, men, patients with diabetes, seniors, and teens. Six meals per day are prescribed, and foods offered include shakes, bars, soups, scrambled eggs, oatmeal, chili, puddings, and hot and cold drinks. All products are suitable for people with type 2 diabetes. Yes Optifast TM (Novartis Nutrition) Comes as a powder to be mixed with water or as a liquid ready-to drink beverage. Patients are prescribed 5 packets of formula every 3-4 hours per day, in place of meals. No The "home made" VLCD regimens are sometimes referred to as "protein-sparing fasts", or "protein sparing modified fasts" (PSMF). This is a misnomer since they do not “spare” protein except in contrast to a total fast. They are usually based on lean meat, fish or poultry and a few other foods plus supplements of two to three grams of potassium chloride and a multivitamin/multimineral supplement in amounts approximating the Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDA). Without such supplementation, they may be nutritionally inadequate. When patients are provided with appropriate dietetic counseling and health supervision by a physician who is experienced in the use of VLCDs and other aspects of a complete weight reduction program, these formulations are also safe and generate rapid weight loss. The extremely hypocaloric versions of VLCDs (e.g., less than or equal to 800 calories per day), which are low in carbohydrate and sodium, promote a mild ketosis that gradually leads to diuresis and rapid weight loss in the first several days on the diet. 8.3.3 Use of Very-Low-Calorie Diets (VLCDs) Evaluation of general health and cardiac status is important prior to the institution of a VLCD. Evaluation of
