Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


first several days on the diet. 8.3.3 Use of Very-Low-Calorie Diets (VLCDs) Evaluation of general health and cardiac status is important prior to the institution of a VLCD. Evaluation of medication dosages and physician monitoring during the regimen are also important, since with weight loss dosing may need to be adjusted. Many practitioners begin the regimen with a two to four week low calorie diet (LCD) phase to assess the ability to comply with a restrictive regimen, and to begin the weight loss process. This is followed by a 12 to 16 week VLCD phase; the regimen is limited to this amount of time to avoid excessive loss of lean tissue. The VLCD phase is then followed by a 12 to 14 week refeeding phase of transitioning back to usual foods and gradually increasing caloric levels. The goal is to increase calories from healthful foods up to 1,200 to 1,500 calories per day, increasing caloric intake by 100 to 150 calories per day (39). This helps to avoid rapid weight changes due to refeeding with restoration of glycogen stores and shifts in water balance. The refeeding phase also provides a time for assisting the dieter to plan a maintenance diet on conventional foods and to solidify a physical activity schedule. VLCD are most effective when administered as part of a more general weight control program that includes physical activity, nutrition education, behavioral modification and attention to decreasing other risk factors. If additional weight loss is needed, it is recommended that several months elapse before another VLCD phase is instituted (106). Although lean tissue is lost on most weight reduction diets, this is a particular risk on VLCD, since greater energy restrictions are associated with more lean tissue losses (73). 8.3.4 Safety of Very-Low-Calorie Diets (VLCDs) The VLCD induces semi-starvation, which has both benefits and risks to the patient. Occasionally, with inadequate commercial products, such as one sold in the 1970’s that consisted of hydrolyzed collagen (an incomplete protein consisting solely of the amino acid glycine) with inadequate amounts of electrolytes, vitamins and minerals, deaths occurred (107). Today, commercial products are better regulated and are nutritionally complete by law; however, the potential for misuse still exists. Some physiological effects are inevitable on VLCDs. On VLCDs mild ketosis occurs and increases risks of dehydration, although dehydration can be avoided by ample fluid intake. Patients on VLCDs should drink at least two liters
