Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


on VLCDs. On VLCDs mild ketosis occurs and increases risks of dehydration, although dehydration can be avoided by ample fluid intake. Patients on VLCDs should drink at least two liters of non-caloric liquids per day (preferably water) to make up for decreased food intake and to prevent dehydration. Avoidance of caffeinated beverages is sometimes recommended, as they can further the risk of dehydration, although moderate use is not prohibited (39). Electrolyte imbalances may occur, and so may nutrient deficiencies if measures are not taken to prevent them on "home-made" VLCD, by use of appropriate supplements. Minor side effects that occur, even with appropriate physician monitoring of cardiac and general health status, include fatigue, dizziness (due to orthostatic hypotension), muscle cramps, gastrointestinal distress (constipation and/or diarrhea), and cold intolerance. The risk of cholelithiasis (gallstones) is increased, and seems to be particularly high when weight loss is very rapid (e.g., >1.5 kilograms/week). The risk of cholelithiasis can be decreased by administering ursodeoxycholic acid, including a moderate amount of fat in the diet, and limiting the amount of weight loss to 1.5 kilograms per week (105). 8.3.5 Effectiveness of Very-Low-Calorie Diets (VLCDs) Because these VLCDs are so low in energy, they usually produce a greater initial weight loss than LCDs. Patients who completed a comprehensive VLCD program including lifestyle modification lost an average of 15 to 25% of initial weight within three to four months (105). However, in comparisons of VLCDs with energy levels of approximately 800 calories versus diets at lower caloric levels of 400 to 500 calories, the lower VLCDs did not necessarily result in greater weight loss, perhaps because compensatory reductions in resting energy expenditure, discretionary physical activity, and the lack of adherence on the lower calorie regimes thwarted weight loss (108). There seems to be little difference in outcomes between commercial and properly formulated homemade VLCDs. The NIH expert panel review of existing studies found that preservation of weight loss over the long-term (e.g., >1 year) was not different on VLCD from that of LCD since most patients gained back 30 to 50% of the lost weight. Studies of VLCDs vary in their long-term results, but weight regain is common (~3.1-3.7 kg during 21-38 weeks afterwards) (31). Combining a VLCD with behavior therapy, physical activity, and active physician follow-up may help to prevent this weight regain, and lend to greater weight loss (109). As such, the long-term advantages of
