Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


VLCD with behavior therapy, physical activity, and active physician follow-up may help to prevent this weight regain, and lend to greater weight loss (109). As such, the long-term advantages of VLCDs in weight control are unclear. Although weight gain is common after cessation of VLCDs, individual clinicians may decide that the expense and quick initial weight loss are worth it for the patient (39). 8.4 Fasting and Alternate Day Fasting Total fasting is contraindicated for weight reduction because it causes excessive breakdown of lean tissue and ketosis. Also, the compensatory decreases in resting metabolism and physical activity on total fasts are profound and counterproductive, since they lower energy output (24;5). Short-term modified alternate-day fasting (ADF) is a relatively new dietary strategy that has not yet received enough research attention to support the effectiveness of its use. On typical ADF diets, patients consume 25% of their energy needs on the fast day, and food intake ad libitum the next day. Many of the ADF studies do not include control groups that undertake other dietary approaches to weight loss, plus the sample sizes have been small (15-64 subjects) and the durations short (8-12 weeks) (110; 111; 112; 113; 114). However, results to date show similar weight loss and improvements in metabolic factors as compared to studies using other dietary approaches to weight loss, as well as good adherence. For example, Varady et al found that ADF was a viable diet option, helping obese patients not only to lose weight, but to also decrease their risk of coronary artery disease (CAD) (110). Emerging evidence suggests that the relative contribution of fat and carbohydrate in ADF diets does not have an impact on weight and blood lipid profiles (115). An alternative fasting regimen that has become popular among some dieters is two days of fast followed by five days of usual eat. Further research is needed with larger samples, dietary control groups, and longer durations before ADF’s widespread use for weight loss purposes, however. An alternative intermittent fasting regimen that has become popular among some dieters is two non-consecutive days of fasting and five unrestrictive days of usual eating each week. This “5:2 Diet”, developed by Dr. Michael Mosley in the United Kingdom, has spread widely throughout Europe, and now the United States. For the two fast days, men are to eat no more than 600 kcals, and women 500 kcals. Usually this consists
