Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


spread widely throughout Europe, and now the United States. For the two fast days, men are to eat no more than 600 kcals, and women 500 kcals. Usually this consists of a very light breakfast and dinner with little or no lunch. Anecdotally, weight loss has been similar to other dietary approaches to weight loss (~2 pounds/week) for short terms (~6 weeks). However, research is lacking on this specific type of diet, so its long-term safety and efficacy has not been tested, and its appropriateness in varying populations is currently unknown 9. Consider the Composition of the Reducing Diet The composition of the reducing diet is important because it may influence both the composition of the weight that is lost and nutritional status. Several published overviews of some popular diets and the basic principles that must be considered in weight control can provide more information (72;91;102;116). Over the past several decades, the potential of varying dietary composition for purposes of weight loss has been studied extensively, yet not one universally optimal diet for all patients has emerged. “A variety of dietary approaches can produce weight loss in overweight and obese individuals” (31). The challenge for practitioners is to identify which diet would be most suited for each individual patient. This may be based on previous dieting experiences, personal food preferences, lifestyle, and other factors (57). Dietary composition on reducing diets should be geared towards decreasing risks of nutrient inadequacy and diet-related chronic diseases. Accordingly, the diet should be adequate in all nutrients, to prevent deficiencies, while following dietary guidelines for health, performance (cognitive and physical), and well-being (24;117). Consumption of vegetables, legumes, fruits, whole grains, lean sources of protein, and water should be encouraged, with emphasis on balance and moderation (33). Diets that promote extreme restriction or unusually high intakes of any macronutrient or food should be limited to a short amount of time. Recommendations for healthful composition of weight reducing diets are outlined in the 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans (Table 1) and discussed further in this section. Several studies have concluded that a reduced calorie diet results in clinically meaningful weight loss regardless of what macronutrients are emphasized (31, 118; 119). For example, in a study with 811 overweight adults placed on one of four diets, the best predictor or weight loss was dietary adherence. The targeted percentages of energy derived from fat, protein, and carbohydrates in the
