Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


overweight adults placed on one of four diets, the best predictor or weight loss was dietary adherence. The targeted percentages of energy derived from fat, protein, and carbohydrates in the four diets were 20, 15, and 65%; 20, 25, and 55%; 40, 15, and 45%; and 40, 25, and 35%. After six months individuals lost an average of six kilograms, 7% of their initial body weight, and after 12 months they started to regain weight. At the end of the two-year study there were no differences in the amount of weight lost amongst participants. Changes from baseline differed among the different diet groups by less than 0.5 kilograms of body weight, and less than 0.5 centimeters at the waist. However, all of the diets reduced risk factors for cardiovascular disease and diabetes at both six months and two years (120). Similarly, a systematic review of long term randomized controlled trials comparing the Atkins, Weight Watchers, Zone, and South Beach diets showed similar modest weight loss with all four approaches [Atallah et al., 2014]. According to the most recent Guidelines for Managing Overweight and Obesity in Adults (31), which is supported by a systematic evidence review by several expert panels, clinically-meaningful weight loss can be achieved through various dietary strategies. The best predictor of weight loss is adherence to a diet that produces a negative caloric balance. Thus, practitioners and patients are challenged to work together to find the option that will best help the patient to adhere. The 15 dietary strategies identified by the expert panel are listed in the table below (31). They all produced caloric deficit, but either through prescribed calorie levels, through restriction or elimination of foods or food groups, or through targeting food groups or providing foods. The expert panel concluded that the strength of the evidence was high for these studies. High protein (30%) Zone-type (40% carbohydrate) with 5 meals dailyEuropean Association for the Study of Diabetes GuidelinesLow carbohydrate (initially <20g/day)High protein (25%), moderated carbohydrates (45%)Low fat (10-25%) vegan-styleModerate protein (12%), higher carbohydrate (58%)Low fat (~20%)High or low glycemic load mealsLow glycemic load Table 14 Fifteen dietary strategies identified by an expert panel as having sufficient empirical evidence to recommend for weight loss (31). View in own window Prescribed Calorie Deficit^ Caloric Deficit through Restriction/Elimination Caloric Deficit through Targeting Food Groups or Food Provision Lacto-ovo-vegetarian High protein (30%) Zone-type (40% carbohydrate) with 5 meals daily
