Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


in own window Prescribed Calorie Deficit^ Caloric Deficit through Restriction/Elimination Caloric Deficit through Targeting Food Groups or Food Provision Lacto-ovo-vegetarian High protein (30%) Zone-type (40% carbohydrate) with 5 meals daily European Association for the Study of Diabetes Guidelines Low calorie Low carbohydrate (initially <20g/day) High protein (25%), moderated carbohydrates (45%) Low glycemic load Low fat (10-25%) vegan-style Moderate protein (12%), higher carbohydrate (58%) Low fat (<30%), high dairy & fiber Low fat (~20%) High or low glycemic load meals Macronutrient targeted* Low glycemic load Mediterranean-style AHA-style step 1 ^Calorie prescription was either calculated or fixed, as described in section 8 *Macronutrients have ranged 15-25% protein, 20-40% fat, and 55-65% carbohydrate in these studies 9.1 Macronutrient Distribution As described above, the macronutrient composition of the diet does not appear to play a major role in overall weight loss; reduced-calorie diets result in clinically meaningful weight loss regardless of which macronutrients they emphasize (121; 118). There is one exception: over the short term, low carbohydrate diets are ketogenic, and may cause a greater loss of body water than body fat (at least in the first few days of the diet). Water weight is regained when the diet ceases, or when carbohydrate intake increases. In this case, glycogen stores, which hold water, are regained. Generally, when any reducing diet is maintained over the long term, if it remains hypocaloric, it will result in a loss of body fat – regardless of the distribution of macronutrients. Although weight loss is caused by many reduced-calorie diets, the nutritional adequacy of different calorie levels and macronutrient composition for weight loss diets varies (122). The lower the reducing diet is in calories, and the more its composition differs from usual levels, the greater the risk of nutrient inadequacy. For the most part, moderate fat, balanced macronutrient reduction diets are nutritionally adequate. Very low-fat diets tend to be deficient in vitamins E, B12, calcium, iron and zinc. High fat, low carbohydrate diets are nutritionally inadequate, and require supplementation to make them nutritionally adequate in many nutrients (96;123;124). They are often low in fiber, so constipation may occur. In this case, fiber supplements and ample water intake may be recommended. Dietary supplements used on weight reduction diets should be within RDA levels and below upper safe limits. Metabolic parameters may improve on some various popular diets including decreased blood pressure, blood lipids, blood sugar, and serum insulin, related to
