Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


within RDA levels and below upper safe limits. Metabolic parameters may improve on some various popular diets including decreased blood pressure, blood lipids, blood sugar, and serum insulin, related to energy restriction and weight loss, regardless of the macronutrient composition of the diet. However, there are some differences. Moderate fat, balanced nutrient reduction diets lower low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, normalize plasma triglycerides, and normalize ratios of HDL/total cholesterol. High fat, very low carbohydrate diets result in ketosis. Low and very low-fat diets (e.g., 15-20% of calories) reduce low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and after a transient rise in triglycerides, may also decrease plasma triglyceride levels. Low carbohydrate diets (e.g., <100 grams of carbohydrate) that result in weight loss may also cause a decrease in blood lipids, blood glucose and insulin levels, and blood pressure. However, these diets are often high in saturated fat, total fat, and in dietary cholesterol, and low in plant-based nutrients such as fiber, so variability in metabolic responses may be seen, due in part to genetic predisposition. Moreover, these diets are ketogenic, often causing signs and symptoms such as diuresis, dizziness, halitosis, fatigue, weakness, hypotension, and malaise. Hunger may vary on the different diets, and also from one individual to the next, but little objective evidence is available for comparing different reducing diets on their anti-hunger effects. Many factors affect hunger, appetite and subsequent food intake, including interactions between physiological and non-physiological factors. Schoeller and Buchholz speculate that a greater consumption of protein may increase satiety, which in turn results in better adherence to hypocaloric diets, however, substantial long-term evidence to support this supposition is lacking (124), and more research is needed in this area. Long-term dietary adherence is likely to be a function primarily of psychological and lifestyle issues rather than macronutrient composition itself. At present little is known about the nutritional or other characteristics of diets that maximize adherence. It is likely that "one size does not fit all" in this respect, so the importance of individualization is underscored. 9.2 Protein This section outlines dietary protein needs during weight reduction. The Recommended Dietary Allowance for protein is 0.8 grams per kilogram per day, but most Americans eat about 1.2 grams per kilogram per day, or approximately 15% of their total caloric intakes from protein. For people in energy balance and at a stable weight, the World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that dietary protein should account
