Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


approximately 15% of their total caloric intakes from protein. For people in energy balance and at a stable weight, the World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that dietary protein should account for approximately 10 to 15% of energy intake (125). 9.2.1 Protein Needs During Weight Reduction Protein requirements tend to rise on hypocaloric diets, especially on VLCDs when protein is burned for energy. Thus, protein needs increase so that loss of lean body mass can be minimized. This is because when energy intakes are insufficient, glucogenic amino acids are used to maintain blood glucose levels and other ketogenic amino acids must be used for energy, so overall protein requirements increase. Fortunately, the hormonal milieu in hypocaloric states spares nitrogen to some extent and causes preferential use of fat for energy. However, fatty acids cannot be converted to blood glucose, so glucogenic amino acids are needed for this. Inevitably, as adipose tissue is mobilized some lean tissue is lost and consequently some nitrogen is also lost. Losses of water, calcium, phosphorus, potassium, and vitamins follow the loss of lean tissue. Excess losses of lean body mass can be hazardous, affecting cardiovascular function, exercise tolerance, and possibly immune responses, and thus should be avoided. As mentioned previously, excess loss of lean tissue can result from energy deficits that are too great (73). As a rule of thumb, a minimum of 65 to 70 grams of protein is needed daily. On a VLCD, 1.5 grams of high quality protein per kilogram of ideal body weight per day is desirable, with intakes no less than, and preferably more than, 65 to 70 grams daily. Intakes may need to be even higher if the dieter suffers from certain diseases or is physically stressed, since nitrogen losses may be more extreme in these states. On diets providing 600 to 1,200 calories per day, daily protein intake should be at least one gram per kilogram ideal body weight per day. Reducing diets over 1,200 calories per day should supply at least 0.8 grams per kilogram ideal body weight, and more if the individual is physically active. Levels should remain this high after weight loss has stopped and maintenance has begun. 9.2.2 High Protein Weight Loss Diets High protein reducing diets are those that provide more than 1.6 grams per kilogram of desirable weight per day. Self-prescribed high protein reducing diets vary in their composition from about 28 to
