Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


reducing diets are those that provide more than 1.6 grams per kilogram of desirable weight per day. Self-prescribed high protein reducing diets vary in their composition from about 28 to 65% of energy, providing 71 to 163 grams of protein per day. They are currently popular as a new strategy for losing weight, and are usually quite low in their carbohydrate content. Some are clearly ketogenic, and severely limit carbohydrates to below 50 grams per day. Examples include the Doctor’s Quick Weight Loss Diet (126) The Dukan Diet (126), Dr. Atkins™’ Diet Revolution (127), T he 17 Day Diet (231), and various iterations of the Paleo Diet, which is discussed in more detail below. Diets that are extremely high in protein should not be undertaken for long periods of time, since their long-term safety has not been sufficiently examined. Other diets are extremely high in protein, very low in carbohydrate and ketogenic, but also very high in fat, such as Protein Power (128). Two other high protein diets with enough carbohydrate so that they are not likely to be ketogenic are The Zone (129) and Sugar Busters (130). Many high protein diets include elaborate instructions that prescribe strict, structured eating schedules, and involve limited food variety and dietary flexibility. The high protein diets that are ketogenic also induce quick initial weight loss because of their low caloric level, and their diuretic effect owing to glycogen depletion, and sodium and water loss. They may also be associated with decreased appetite due to the high protein intake, since protein may show to be particularly satiating (131;132). Ketosis has long been said to reduce appetite, although little data supports this. Nonetheless, for some patients these constraints may help them to achieve and maintain low calorie intakes over the short run. Popular high protein reducing regimens are not risk-free, however. Many of these diets advocate very high intakes of protein from meat and other foods that are also often high in saturated fat, cholesterol and sodium while they are low in dietary fiber, antioxidants, potassium, calcium, magnesium, and some vitamins. The purine content of meat, poultry, seafood, eggs, seeds, and nuts is high, and can increases uric acid levels and risk of gout in susceptible persons. The high protein load may also increase urinary calcium loss if it is not buffered (133). In patients with diabetic nephropathy, very high protein diets may speed progression,
