Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


susceptible persons. The high protein load may also increase urinary calcium loss if it is not buffered (133). In patients with diabetic nephropathy, very high protein diets may speed progression, although the data are not definitive (134). Because many high protein diets are often by default low in carbohydrate, they also can cause an increase in ketosis. Finally, these diets do not necessarily promote greater long-term weight loss as compared to other options (135;136; 118). 9.3 Fat This section outlines dietary fat needs during weight reduction. 9.3.1 Fat Needs During Weight Reduction Even on reducing diets, the human body needs small amounts (e.g., three to six grams) of essential fatty acids (linoleic or arachidonic acid). Some fat is also necessary as a carrier for the fat-soluble vitamins A, D, E, and K. Therefore the diet should not be devoid of fat. However, because fat is calorically dense, it is often decreased on reducing diets to reduce energy intake while increasing bulk. 9.3.2 Moderate to Low-Fat Balanced Deficit Reducing Diets In general, levels of dietary fat, saturated fat, trans fat, polyunsaturated fat, monounsaturated fat, and cholesterol should follow guidelines from the American Heart Association (AHA) on weight reduction diets. While lower levels may be appropriate in some cases, they amply meet requirements while supporting cardiovascular health (24). Weight reduction diets that are moderate to low in fat (20 to 30% of calories) are called "balanced deficit" diets because they maintain a reasonable balance among macronutrients similar to that recommended in MyPlate, DASH, and the Dietary Guidelines for Americans (15; 117). They tend to achieve most of the caloric deficit by reducing fat from the typical level in North American Diets of about 34% or more of calories to 20 to 30% fat, 15% protein, and 55 to 65% of calories from carbohydrates. Some examples of balanced deficit diets are the Weight Watchers® Diet (25% fat, 20% protein, and 55% carbohydrate, with 26 grams of dietary fiber), Jenny Craig®, the National Cholesterol Education Program Step 1 diet (25% fat), diets based on the MyPlate, the DASH diet, the Shape up and Drop 10 diet of Shape Up! America (33), and the Nutrisystem® diet. Popular diet books using this approach include The Biggest Loser Diet (232), The Mayo Clinic Diet (233), and The Engine 2 Die (234). These dietary patterns have been extensively reviewed and appear to be effective for weight reduction on
