Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


Loser Diet (232), The Mayo Clinic Diet (233), and The Engine 2 Die (234). These dietary patterns have been extensively reviewed and appear to be effective for weight reduction on low calorie diets for most individuals. 9.3.3 Very Low-Fat Reducing Diets (<20% Fat Calories) Very low-fat diets such as the Pritikin Diet (137), the Ornish Diet (138), and The Spark Solution Diet (235) have been advocated not only for weight reduction, but also for improving cardiovascular risk profiles. The Ornish Diet, which is very low in fat (13% of calories) and saturated fat, very high in carbohydrate (81% of calories) and very high in fiber (38 grams), is part of a program that includes nonsmoking, exercise and behavior modification. It was shown to reduce some cardiovascular risk factors in a limited long term study (138). For those who can adhere to the Ornish regime it may be helpful. However, it may not be appropriate for all populations, such as diabetics. 9.3.4 High Fat Diets for Weight Reduction (55 to 65% Fat) High fat reducing diets are also usually low or very low in carbohydrate (<200 grams carbohydrate per day). Some current examples include Dr. Atkins™’ Diet Revolution (127), Protein Power (128), the Carbohydrate Addicts Diet (139), Dr. Bernstein’s Diabetes Solution (140), Life Without Bread (141), the Pennington Diet (141), and the Bulletproof Diet (236). There is some evidence that free-living, overweight people who self-select high fat, low carbohydrate diets consume fewer calories and lose weight (102). This is not because the laws of thermodynamics are violated, but because they have far fewer food options, if they adhere to such rigorous regimens. When high fat, low carbohydrate reducing diets are fed they also tend to cause ketosis and diuresis. They may also result in decreased blood lipids, glucose and insulin, along with and decreased blood pressure, but only if weight is lost. Over the short term (a few days or weeks) high fat, low carbohydrate, ketogenic diets cause a greater loss of body water than body fat, but water balance is quickly restored when carbohydrate intakes increase or when the diet ends. High fat, low carbohydrate diets are often nutritionally inadequate, so they often require some supplementation with micronutrients and fiber. If such high fat levels are continued on a chronic basis after weight is lost, they are may increase dietary risks for coronary artery disease. More research is needed in
