Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


If such high fat levels are continued on a chronic basis after weight is lost, they are may increase dietary risks for coronary artery disease. More research is needed in this area. 9.4 Carbohydrates and the Glycemic Index The following section reviews carbohydrate needs during weight reduction, and the glycemic index. 9.4.1 Carbohydrate Needs in Weight Reduction Carbohydrate needs for most individuals are at least 50 grams per day, to fuel the central nervous system, red blood cells, and other glucose-dependent tissues. If carbohydrate intake fall below this, than gluconeogenesis is likely to ensue. The carbon source for gluconeogenesis cannot be fatty acids, so in these cases, amino acids are used to maintain blood glucose and fuel glucose-dependent tissues. At least 100 grams carbohydrate, and preferably carbohydrate within the Acceptable Macronutrient Distribution Ranges (AMDR) of 45 to 65% of total energy intake, should be provided for diets that are over 800 calories per day. Under experimental conditions, both hypocaloric diets very high in sugars (mono-and di-saccharides) and diets very high in starches (digestible polysaccharides) that are equi-caloric have similar weight loss effects (143;144). However, from the practical standpoint, since many products that are high in sugar are calorically dense and often are also high in calories, added fat, and low in fiber, vitamins and minerals; sugars are usually limited on reducing diets. Additionally, high sugar diets may increase some cardiovascular risk factors (145). From the physiological standpoint, “added” sugar, and sugar inherently in the foods, are similar in their caloric contributions. . Individuals assigned to a low-carbohydrate, high-protein diets do lose more weight at six months than those on low-fat, reduced-energy diet. However, this difference is no longer significant at 12 months (70;116;120). An evidence review from the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics concluded that, “An individualized, reduced calorie diet is the basis of the dietary component of a comprehensive weight management program. Reducing dietary fat and/or carbohydrates is a practical way to create a caloric deficit of 500 to 1,000 kcal below estimated energy needs and should result in a weight loss of one to two pounds per week” (70). Whether an individual dieter reduces fat or carbohydrate does not matter. If calories are similar, in the long run, weight loss amounts to reducing caloric intake. Concerns regarding an increase in cardiovascular risks with low-carbohydrate diets now do not appear to be as problematic as first thought (70). If
