Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


weight loss amounts to reducing caloric intake. Concerns regarding an increase in cardiovascular risks with low-carbohydrate diets now do not appear to be as problematic as first thought (70). If an obese person loses weight, cardiovascular risk factors usually improve (31). 9.4.2 Low Carbohydrate Diets (<100 grams Carbohydrate) Diets providing less than 100 grams of carbohydrate per day, and especially those with less than 50 grams carbohydrates per day, are ketogenic. Ketosis can be a problem on some popular diets that are very low in carbohydrates, such as Dr. Atkins™’ Diet Revolution (127), Protein Power (128), The Dukan Diet (126), Dr. Bernstein’s Diabetes Solution (140), The Bulletproof Diet (236),, and the Pennington Diet (142). Also, VLCDs containing fewer than 100 grams of carbohydrate per day are ketogenic and may lead to excessive protein breakdown to maintain blood glucose levels unless protein intakes are increased. When the body must rely on catabolism of protein to preserve blood glucose levels via gluconeogenesis, the catabolism of the protein is accompanied by loss of water. For every gram of protein (or glycogen) that is broken down, three grams of water are released, causing rapid weight loss but also a state of relative dehydration (95). Relative dehydration caused by ketosis and failure to drink adequate amounts of fluids is not only undesirable for health reasons, it reduces exercise tolerance (67). It also does not address the primary purpose of the weight-reducing strategy, which is to decrease excess adipose tissue and not water weight. One main concern with studies to date on low carbohydrate diets is that most of them to not include exercise. Since exercise tolerance declines with low carbohydrate intakes and reduced glycogen stores, more research is needed in this area before such diets can be recommended. 9.4.3 Low Glycemic Index Diets The Glycemic Index (GI) was originally developed for the therapy of diabetes, but it has gained popularity in weight management. The GI describes the blood glucose response resulting from consumption of a defined amount of carbohydrate (usually 50 grams) from a given food, relative to the response of the same amount of carbohydrate from a control food (usually white bread)(146). In brief, the GI is an alternative system for classifying carbohydrate-containing foods according to their postprandial blood glucose responses to portions containing standardized amounts of carbohydrates (30). Since the GI is based on standardized portions, glycemic load (GL), the product of GI
