Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


according to their postprandial blood glucose responses to portions containing standardized amounts of carbohydrates (30). Since the GI is based on standardized portions, glycemic load (GL), the product of GI and carbohydrate amount, is used to evaluate the effect of meals/snacks—differing in both quality and quantity of carbohydrates—on postprandial glycemia (30). The basic premise is that more moderate blood glucose and metabolic responses from low-GI foods and a low GL will sustain satiety and energy balance to a greater extent than would high-GI foods and a high GL load. The GI may be important in regulating hunger, voluntary energy intake, and satiety. A high-GI meal or snack may compromise glucose uptake following a subsequent meal—a phenomenon known as the “second-meal effect.” The underlying mechanism likely involves decreased insulin sensitivity with increased concentrations of circulating free fatty acids during the late postprandial phase. With regard to a high-GI meal or snack, it is thought that, “the drop in blood glucose during the middle postprandial phase may increase the preference for high-GI foods, leading to repeated cycles of excess hunger followed by hyperphagia that may last for several hours following restoration of euglycemia. These vicious cycles, exacerbated by the second-meal effect may contribute to disappointing long-term weight control with conventional low-fat diet prescriptions that emphasize the importance of consuming starchy foods” (30). Hence, low-GI foods are thought to help minimize blood glucose fluctuations, hunger hormones, and increase satiety. Some, but not all, studies have conducted a follow-up period at 12 months showing that overweight or obese individuals on low-GI diets lose slightly more weight (1-3 kg) than those on high-GI diets or conventional energy restricted weight loss diets (147). Beyond short term weight loss, low-GI diets have also shown to decrease fasting glucose and insulin levels, reduce circulating triglycerides, and improve blood pressure (30;148;149). Thus, low-GI and low-GL diet plans may help some individuals lose weight, typically one to two BMI units, and help improve metabolic parameters and risk of cardiovascular disease. (148). The effects of low GI carbohydrates may also help to prevent excess weight gain, although more research must be done on their longer-term efficacy (150-152). Consumption of whole grains, legumes, fruits, vegetables, and whole foods that are low in GI, is helpful in meeting fiber goals and may be helpful in weight management. A well balanced, hypocaloric low glycemic index diet may prove to be effective in properly educated,
