Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


GI, is helpful in meeting fiber goals and may be helpful in weight management. A well balanced, hypocaloric low glycemic index diet may prove to be effective in properly educated, adherent patients who are willing to take the time to learn about high- and low-glycemic foods, and who do not completely exclude healthful high glycemic foods. For example, sausages, ice cream, and chocolate cake with frosting are all low GI foods, while parsnips, carrots, bananas, dates and potatoes tend to be high GI foods. This underscores the point that more than just GI must be considered in food choices and patients need to be educated accordingly. Since GI is not listed on food labels in most countries, and since many factors influence it, such as cooking, ripeness, and the other foods consumed at the same meal, this dietary approach may pose a challenge for some patients. Any reducing diet must be viewed as a whole. In the USA nutrient fact labels are available on most processed foods, and provide information on carbohydrate content. Therefore the GI does not offer much additional information. However labeling of carbohydrate subtypes is not done in some countries, and use of the GI is popular. As seen in the table at the beginning of this section, diets with altered GI have been applied in cases where calories were prescribed, where food was provided, and where intake was limited, and all produced similar results to other dietary approaches. However, data are limited in US populations. In summary, diets based on the GI may offer some patients benefits in terms of short and long-term weight loss, but the perpetuity of the regimen remains in question. 9.4.4 Paleo Diet The Paleo Diet has gained considerable popularity among consumers in recent years, although no large-scale scientific study has thoroughly investigated it yet, especially for the purposes of weight loss. This dietary approach suggests that individuals consume only foods and beverages that presumably made up the diets of Paleolithic humans (153). Thus, all processed foods and beverages are eliminated in addition to grains, dairy, and legumes. Allowed foods include meats, fish, poultry, vegetables, fruits, and nuts (not peanuts). Deficits in caloric intake are achieved through elimination of large amounts of usually-consumed food types. Advantages are that this diet tends to be high in nutrients that come from vegetables and fruits (e.g. vitamin C), and it is low in sodium and
