Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


usually-consumed food types. Advantages are that this diet tends to be high in nutrients that come from vegetables and fruits (e.g. vitamin C), and it is low in sodium and glycemic index / load (154). However, it is low in calcium, and high in cholesterol (154). While it provides satiety, many subjects find adherence difficult, due to the restriction of so many foods and beverages. To date, most studies have only tested this diet short term (10 days to 3 months), with low subject numbers (9-20), sometimes lacking control groups, and without a concurrent exercise prescription (155; 154; 156; 157). Weight loss has been comparable to other similar dietary approaches (156), and improvements have been noted for several risk factors of cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes (154; 157), even without weight loss (155). Patients attempting this diet while on warfarin treatment should consult their physician or dietitian due to the high vitamin K coming from the abundance of vegetables (153). More work is needed to determine long-term outcomes and adherence for this diet. Particular attention should be given to bone and gastrointestinal health, since dairy, cereal fibers, and legumes are missing from this diet [158; 159; 160). 9.4.5 High-Fructose Corn Syrup and Weight High-fructose corn syrup (HFCS) does not contribute to overweight or obesity any differently than do other energy sources (161). HFCS has been blamed for the obesity epidemic mainly due to the association between American’s increases in weight along with the increase in HFCS in our food supply since the 1970s, but similar associations are also present with bottled water sales. However, association is not causation. In 2004, Bray et al (162) hypothesized that HFCS was a direct causative factor for obesity. However, to date, there is no scientific evidence supporting this theory. As stated in White’s article from The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, “The HFCS-obesity hypothesis of Bray et al relies heavily on the positive association between increasing HFCS use and obesity rates in the United States. However, Bray et al treated this association in isolation, offering no perspective on trends in total caloric intake or added sweeteners use in comparison with use of other dietary macronutrients.” HFCS was introduced to the food industry in the late 1960s and was well received because it is stable in acidic foods and beverages, is easily transportable and is sweet. HFCS can be pumped from delivery vehicles to
