Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


the late 1960s and was well received because it is stable in acidic foods and beverages, is easily transportable and is sweet. HFCS can be pumped from delivery vehicles to storage and mixing tanks, requiring only simple dilution before use. Furthermore, it has remained relatively inexpensive. Its sweetness mirrored that of sugar. Contrary to popular belief, HFCS is not sweeter than sucrose. The forms of HFCS in the food supply are HFCS-55 and HFCS-42 with 55% fructose and 42% glucose, and 42% fructose and 53% glucose, respectively. The remaining carbohydrates are free glucose, maltose, and maltotriose. A similar ratio of fructose to glucose as in HFCS is also in honey, invert sugar, fruit, and fruit juices (163). Table sugar or sucrose is composed of 50% fructose and 50% glucose. Hence, the ratio of glucose to fructose in both HFCS and sucrose is essentially 1 to 1. Furthermore, HFCS and sucrose both contain four calories per gram. Existing theoretical and empirical evidence suggests that fructose-induced problems are not more related to HFCS than sucrose intake (164). Total caloric intake is positively associated with BMI, independent of sugar intake (165). However, the World Health Organization and U.S. Dietary Guidelines recommend avoidance of excess added sugars due to their ‘empty calories’, which may dilute dietary quality, and also may elevate some cardiometabolic risk factors (117; 145), HFCS is not a direct cause of the obesity epidemic in the United States. To date, there is no evidence linking these two factors (161;166;167). As Forshee et al concluded, “Evidence from ecological studies linking HFCS consumption with rising BMI rates is unreliable. Evidence from epidemiologic studies and randomized controlled trials is inconclusive. Based on the currently available evidence, an expert panel concluded that HFCS does not appear to contribute to overweight and obesity any differently than do other energy sources” (161). 9.5 Water This section discusses water and electrolyte needs during weight reduction. 9.5.1 Water Needs on Reducing Diets Vary Ample fluid intake is important on weight reduction diets to prevent dehydration, especially if diets are ketogenic, very low in calories, or being undertaken in hot climates or with physical exertion. As mentioned earlier, losses of body glycogen and protein are accompanied by losses of body water. Intake of low-calorie or calorie-free fluids such as water should be emphasized (168). Water needs go up with increases in physical activity, not only due to sweat losses, but
