Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


water. Intake of low-calorie or calorie-free fluids such as water should be emphasized (168). Water needs go up with increases in physical activity, not only due to sweat losses, but also due to increased water losses due to respiration (67). The fatigue that some dieters associate with hypocaloric diets is often due in part to dehydration, especially if they have also increased their physical activity and exercise regimes dramatically. Body water losses of as little as 2% have been associated with decreased physical and mental performance, and impaired thermoregulation (168). Some dieters may be in a state of mild dehydration much of the time, and this is unnecessary and may detract from quality of life. General water recommendations average approximately 2.7 liters (91 ounces) per day for women and 3.7 liters (125 ounces) per day for men. This includes total water intake from all beverages and water in foods. It has been estimated that 20% of total water consumption comes from solid foods (169). A fluid intake plan should be incorporated in every weight loss regimen. Non-caloric sources of fluid should be emphasized; pure water and seltzers tend to be great choices. 9.6 Electrolytes Under normal circumstances on a well-balanced diet that is not overly restrictive with energy, electrolyte balance is maintained. If an individual may be losing excess electrolytes due to high sweat or urine losses, electrolytes can usually be replaced with normal foods (67). The American diet is overly abundant in sodium. Potassium is not so abundant but can be obtained in fruits and vegetables. Examples of foods that are high in both sodium and potassium include tomato sauces and vegetable soups. Electrolyte levels are of particular concern on VLCD, since occasionally cardiac arrhythmias have resulted from hypokalemia on such regimens (105). Since hypokalemia can be fatal, electrolyte levels must always be monitored on VLCD. 9.7 Vitamins and Minerals The next section outlines vitamin and mineral needs during weight reduction. 9.7.1 Vitamin and Mineral Needs During Weight Reduction Vitamin and mineral nutrition is critical during weight reduction and maintenance. The amounts of nutrients specified in Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) for an individual’s age and sex must continue to be met, even on reducing diets for all other nutrients (See Table 15 and Table 16). The lower the diet is in calories, the more likely it is that essential vitamins, minerals and electrolytes such as potassium, copper, magnesium, Vitamin
