Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


1 µg retinol, 12 µg ß-carotene, 24 µg ∂-carotene, or 24 µg ß-cryptoxanthin. To calculate RAEs from REs of provitamin A carotenoids in foods, divide the REs by 2. For preformed vitamin A in foods or supplements and for provitamin A carotenoids in supplements, 1 RE = 1 RAE. b calciferol. 1 µg calciferol = 40 IU vitamin D. c In the absence of adequate exposure to sunlight. d As ∂-tocopherol. ∂-Tocopherol includes RRR- ∂ - tocopherol, the only form of ∂-tocopherol that occurs naturally in foods, and the 2R -stereoisomeric forms of ∂-tocopherol ( RRR -, RSR -, RRS -, and RSS -∂-tocopherol) that occur in fortified foods and supplements. It does not include the 2S -stereoisomeric forms of ∂-tocopherol ( SRR -, SSR -, SRS -, and SSS -∂-tocopherol), also found in fortified foods and supplements. e As niacin equivalents (NE). 1 mg of niacin = 60 mg of tryptophan; 0–6 months = preformed niacin (not NE). f As dietary folate equivalents (DFE). 1 DFE = 1 µg food folate = 0.6 µg of folic acid from fortified food or as a supplement consumed with food = 0.5 µg of a supplement taken on an empty stomach. g Although AIs have been set for choline, there are few data to assess whether a dietary supply of choline is needed at all stages of the life cycle, and it may be that the choline requirement can be met by endogenous synthesis at some of these stages. h Because 10 to 30 percent of older people may malabsorb food-bound B 12 , it is advisable for those older than 50 years to meet their RDA mainly by consuming foods fortified with B 12 or a supplement containing B 12 . ± In 2008, the American Academy of Pediatrics adjusted their 2003 recommendations for vitamin D in children from 5 µg per day (200 IU), beginning in the first two months of life, to 10 µg per day (400 IU) within the first few days of life. This increased recommendation is based on the amount of vitamin D that can be given safely per day to prevent or treat rickets and possibly provide additional health benefits. The 2004 DRIs have not yet been updated to reflect this. i In view of evidence linking inadequate folate intake with neural tube defects in the fetus, it is recommended that all women capable of
