Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


of Sciences. All rights reserved. 2/15/01 9.7.2 Calcium Supplementation, Dietary Dairy Intake, and Weight Loss Some studies in the past have suggested that calcium supplementation and/or supplementation of dairy products in the diet play a direct role in the prevention and treatment of obesity. However, not all data support this hypothesis, and several studies found that calcium or dairy consumption do not aid in weight loss (170), nor does calcium supplementation have an effect in preventing weight gain (171-173). In a review evaluating 49 randomized clinical trials assessing the effect of dairy product or calcium supplement consumption, 41 studies showed no effect, two reported weight gain, one showed a lower rate of gain, and five showed it was effective as an aide in weight loss (170). Major et al found that calcium plus vitamin D supplementation enhanced the beneficial effect of weight loss on the lipid profile; however, it had no effect on weight itself (174). There is also some evidence that high calcium or high dairy intakes during weight loss spare lean tissue loss to a greater extent than lower levels, although the evidence is not conclusive at this time. 9.7.3 Dietary Supplements and Weight Loss Currently over half of the adult population uses dietary supplements (175). Most reported the motivation for using them was to increase over health even though less than a quarter of those supplements taken were recommended by a physician or healthcare provider (175). Retail sales of weight-loss supplements were estimated to be over $25.177 billion in 2008, including meal replacements (176). Table 19 Common Ingredients in Weight Loss Dietary Supplements* (294) View in own window Ingredient Purported Mechanism Research Findings Safety+ Bitter orange (synephrine) Increased energy expenditure and lipolysis; mild appetite suppressant Small clinical trials of poor methodological quality demonstrating possible effect on resting metabolic rate and energy expenditure, with inconclusive effects on weight loss Reported adverse effects include chest pain, anxiety, and increased blood pressure and heart rate Caffeine (as added caffeine or from guarana, kola nut, yerba mate, or other herbs) Stimulation of central nervous system; increased thermogenesis and fat oxidation Short-term clinical trials of combination products showing possible modest effect on body weight or decreased weight gain over time Safety concerns not usually reported at doses less than 400 mg/day for adults, but there are significant safety concerns at higher doses. Reported adverse effects include nervousness, jitteriness, vomiting, and tachycardia Calcium
