Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


In 2001, MetaboLife® 356, an Ephedra-containing combination supplement, was the top selling dietary supplement. It reached $70 million in sales, but it was also responsible for 64 percent of all herb-related adverse events reported to the U.S. Poison Control Center during that same year (175;177). Ephedra, or Ma Huang, is the common name for the herb that was used in many of these weight loss supplements. It is an herb used in traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM). Its use in weight reduction though, is not a common practice in TCM. Americans used this supplement as a weight loss aid from the mid 1990’s, up until 2004, when it was banned by the FDA (178;179). The NIH sponsored a thorough systematic review of the safety and efficacy of Ephedra through the Agency of Healthcare Research and Quality’s (AHRQ) Evidence Based Practice Center at the University of Southern California, which conducted the study. It concluded that the use of Ephedra, with or without caffeine, correlated with a small but nonetheless statistically significant increase in weight loss over six months, (almost equal to 0.9 kilograms per month more than with the placebo). The weight lost by those taking Ephedra in combination with caffeine exceeded weight lost by prescription medications in two head-to-head randomized, double-blinded clinical trials (178). There were no studies that measured the long-term effects (more than 6 months) of Ephedra use, and the problem was that the supplement was not safe. Adverse effects of the supplement in the AHRQ study included two to three times more nausea, vomiting, psychiatric symptoms such as anxiety and change in mood, autonomic hyperactivity, and palpitations when compared with placebo. Serious adverse events (SAE’s) were defined as specified by FDA criteria. SAEs were reported to the FDA, and adverse event reports from a manufacturer of Ephedra-containing dietary supplements were also evaluated in the RAND/Southern California systemic review. These reports raised concern about the safety of dietary supplements containing Ephedra due to the number of deaths, myocardial infarctions, cerebrovascular accidents, seizures, and serious psychiatric illnesses in young adults, data was sufficient to warrant concern (178). The FDA concluded in 2004 that Ephedra-containing products were not to be recommended for weight loss. There was unreasonable risk for illness and injury when taking such dietary supplements. Thus, the sale of dietary supplements containing Ephedra has been prohibited in the United States since April 2004 (178). Ephedra like supplements such as
