Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


injury when taking such dietary supplements. Thus, the sale of dietary supplements containing Ephedra has been prohibited in the United States since April 2004 (178). Ephedra like supplements such as Citrus aurantium (Bitter orange) may also pose risk. The latest information on dietary supplements and weight loss can be found at www.ods.nih.gov . 9.8 Fiber The next section outlines dietary fiber needs during weight reduction. 9.8.1 Fiber Needs in Reducing Diets Dietary fiber is chemically similar to carbohydrate in most of its forms but it is virtually non-caloric because the human body lacks the enzymes to break the fiber’s glycosidic bonds. Some short-term experimental and several cross-sectional studies suggest that an increased dietary fiber intake reduces weight gain. In contrast, fiber is not effective as a weight loss aid (180). Fiber should be included in reducing diets at levels of about 25 to 38 grams per day to facilitate laxation. Both soluble and insoluble dietary fiber may also modify hunger and help to sustain satiety, but again experimental evidence is not conclusive (10;181;182). Inclusion of five or more servings of fruits and vegetables daily, with plenty of whole grain breads and cereals helps to meet both soluble and insoluble fiber goals on reducing diets. On a VLCD, it is also important to include at least some fiber. As dietary fiber intakes increase, water requirements also increase, so intakes of fluid should also be substantial. Adequate fiber and water are essential for maintaining a soft stool and normal laxation. Ample fiber intakes are associated with reduced risk of several chronic diseases (183). 9.9 Energy-Dense Beverages, Alcohol, and Energy-Free Artificially and Naturally Sweetened Beverages Currently, it is estimated that the mean intake of ”added” sugars in the American diet is about 15.8% of total energy, and that the largest source of these added sugars is from calorically sweetened beverages such as soft drinks, fruit aides, and other sweetened beverages, accounting for 47% of total added sugars in the diet (184;185) . The term “energy-dense beverage” encompasses a wide variety of beverages, including sugar sweetened soda, fruit drinks, juice, lemonade, sweetened iced tea, milk and soy beverages, and alcohol. Alcohol is especially calorie dense (7 Cal/gm, vs 4 for sugars), and it also may bypass satiety mechanisms and lead to a lack of ability to control eating. Curiously, in recent years it has been neglected in spite of the fact that many adults
