Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


may bypass satiety mechanisms and lead to a lack of ability to control eating. Curiously, in recent years it has been neglected in spite of the fact that many adults (and unfortunately some younger people) drink alcohol on a regular basis. 9.9.1 Energy-Dense Beverages When compared to water or energy-free beverages, consumption of energy-containing beverages tends to increase total energy intake from meals (184). Although the evidence is not highly conclusive, it is argued that: 1) consumption of an isocaloric beverage compared to consumption of solid food prior to a meal increases food intake, 2) solid foods enhance satiety hormones more than energy-dense beverages, and 3) energy-dense beverages are often comprised largely of refined carbohydrates, which stimulate fewer satiety signals than unprocessed carbohydrates, fat or protein (184). More research is needed on this issue to validate each of these assumptions. It should be noted that alcohol is also energy dense and bypasses satiety mechanisms. This is discussed below further in section 9.9.2 Alcohol. The Beverage Guidance Panel recommends that the average person limit daily consumption of caloric, sweetened beverages without nutritional benefits (soft drinks, fruit drinks, fruit cocktails, fruit aids, and sweetened teas and coffees) to eight ounces per day. Caloric, nutrient-dense beverage consumption (milk, soy and 100% fruit and vegetable juices) should be kept to a minimum (186). In the United States, a regular, 12-ounce can of calorically sweetened soda provides approximately 150 calories, typically in the form of high-fructose corn syrup. These calories, if not balanced with exercise or a caloric reduction in other areas of one’s diet, could gradually lead weight gain over time (187). While there may be health benefits to consuming energy and nutrient dense beverages such as milk and 100% fruit juice, the additional energy provided by these energy-dense beverages must be offset by an increase in energy expenditure or a decrease in other areas of energy consumption in order for weight loss or weight maintenance goals to be achieved. Any energy-dense beverages included in the diet should also be nutrient dense, such as various forms of milks (e.g. diary, soy) and 100% fruit juices (which should be limited to about one serving per day). Most other caloric beverages, such as sodas, fruit drinks, sweetened coffees and teas provide calories with little or no vitamins, minerals, or other nutrients. For this reason, energy-dense beverages are generally not recommended for patients attempting to lose weight.
