Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


sweetened coffees and teas provide calories with little or no vitamins, minerals, or other nutrients. For this reason, energy-dense beverages are generally not recommended for patients attempting to lose weight. 9.9.2 Alcohol Alcohol (ethanol) contains approximately seven calories per gram, providing more energy per unit of weight than either carbohydrate or protein (each providing about four calories per gram), but less than fat (about 9 calories per gram). Alcoholic beverages are a source of non-nutritive energy, or “empty calories”. If protein, carbohydrate and/or fat are consumed at the same time as alcohol is ingested, their oxidation will be suppressed (most notably fat oxidation), since alcohol is preferentially oxidized, and the other macronutrients balance through the sparing effect of alcohol on fat oxidation. This may lead to increased fat storage. In addition to alcohol’s influence on macronutrient metabolism, chronic extremely excess intake of alcohol also interferes with the absorption and utilization of several vitamins and minerals. Alcohol in excess also impairs nutrient absorption by damaging the stomach and intestinal lining, disabling the transport of some nutrients into the blood. Chronic overconsumption of alcohol can also lead to fatty liver, dyslipidemia, and further weight gain, and should be discouraged. Another important consideration concerning alcohol’s influence on energy balance is its effects on energy intake. Alcohol is positioned at the bottom of the hierarchy of satiating efficiency of metabolic fuels consumed by humans (10). Generally, satiety provided by fuels is ranked from lowest to highest: alcohol, fat, carbohydrate (depending on type), and protein (188). Alcohol energy is additive to the diet, producing no compensation in energy intake under most ad-libitum situations, and in fact, some research suggests that alcohol may stimulate appetite (189;190). For these reasons, alcohol consumption is usually contraindicated on weight-loss diets. 9.9.3 Low and No Calorie Sweeteners These ingredients are variously called low and no calorie sweeteners, non-nutritive sweeteners, sugar substitutes, reduced calorie sweeteners, or artificial sweeteners). They are added to foods and beverages to provide sweetness without adding significant amounts of sugar and calories to the product. They are also used as flavorings to mask the bitter taste of drugs http://www.caloriecontrol.org/sweeteners-and-lite/sugar-substitutes. Low calorie sweeteners are appealing because they satisfy our innate preference for sweetness without the associated calories consuming sugar would have. They do not contribute to dental caries, may help to make low calorie diets more palatable, and assist compliance. These low calorie sweeteners are consumed by approximately
