Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


sugar would have. They do not contribute to dental caries, may help to make low calorie diets more palatable, and assist compliance. These low calorie sweeteners are consumed by approximately one fifth of U.S. adults (191). In human studies, data have been conflicting on whether they are associated with weight loss (192). However, the draft conclusions of the 2015 Dietary Guidelines Scientific Advisory Committee concluded that there was moderate and generally consistent evidence from randomized clinical trials conducted in adults and children supporting the contention that replacement of sugar-containing sweeteners with low calorie sweeteners reduces calorie intake, body weight and adiposity. However evidence was judged only limited from long-term observational studies in children and adults that there was an association between low calorie sweeteners and body weight compared to sugar containing sweeteners. The Committee further concluded in its draft statement that there was only limited long-term observational study evidence in adults that there was an association between low calorie sweeteners and risk of type 2 diabetes. The FDA has approved seven non-nutritive sweeteners for use in foods and beverages in the United States to date. Most are regulated as food additives, including acesulfame-potassium (Acesufame-K. Ace-K, Sunett, Sweet One), aspartame (Equal, NutraSweet), saccharin (Necta Sweet, Sugar Twin, Sweet ‘N Low), sucralose (Splenda), and two products that are used largely as ingredients rather than as table top sweeteners, neotame, and most recently, advantame. Cylamate is not sold in the United States but is sold in many other countries as a tabletop sweetener. The FDA granted stevia leaf, often called “sweet leaf”, a plant-derived sweetener, (PureVia, Sun Crystals, and Truvia Generally Recognized As Safe (GRAS) status. It is derived from stevia leaves by steeping them in water and purifying to extract to obtain only high purity rebaudioside A. The ingredient is sold under the trade name Rebiana and is the major source of sweetness in the Truvia sweetener brand. , Also GRAS is the product Fruit-Sweetness™ is anon-caloric fruit concentrate sweetener derived from the monk fruit, a traditional fruit originating in Southeast Asia (193). The sweeteners have a variety of different chemical structures, as shown in Table 20 , and summarized elsewhere (http://www.caloriecontrol.org/sweeteners-and-lite/sugar-substitutes).They also vary widely in their sweetness and in their most common uses. The most commonly consumed source of these products is as a sweetener to beverages either provided by sachets of the different products, that are added to the drink
