Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


common uses. The most commonly consumed source of these products is as a sweetener to beverages either provided by sachets of the different products, that are added to the drink or as an ingredient in a variety of “diet’ soft drinks and colas. The sweeteners used in foods and beverages are listed on the ingredient list for those who prefer a specific ingredient. There is little evidence that low calorie sweeteners in and of themselves can cause patients to lose weight; their use must always be coupled with a hypocaloric diet. The low calorie sweeteners may make reducing diets more palatable and encourage compliance, but this remains to be demonstrated conclusively (194-195). During weight maintenance, water and other non-caloric beverages or, low calorie sweetened beverages are a preferable alternative to high calorie beverages, such as regular soft drinks, sweet teas, other sugary drinks and alcohol. Some recommend that adults consume no more than 32 ounces of low calorie sweetened beverages per day, but there is little evidence supporting such recommendations (186). If an individual wishes to reduce his/her exposure to a particular low calorie sweetener, both consuming less or choosing a variety of low calorie sweeteners are useful strategies to consider 9.9.3.1 SAFETY OF LOW CALORIE SWEETENERS The safety of low-calorie sweeteners has been evaluated by several bodies, including the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Joint Expert Committee of Food Additions (JECFA) of the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO), the World Health Organization (WHO), the Scientific Committee on Food (SCF) of the European Commission, and the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) (242, 254). In the United States, the use of sweeteners is regulated by FDA under the 1958 Food Additives Amendment of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938 (249). Currently, two low calorie nutritive sweeteners sugar alcohols (mannitol and xylitol) and six non-nutritive sweeteners (aspartame, acesulfame-K, saccharin, sucralose, neotame, advantame) are approved as food additives by the FDA (242), and two additional “natural” sweeteners, extracts of stevia and monk fruit, are approved as GRAS. An Acceptable Daily Intake (ADI) is established for all FDA-approved low-calorie sweeteners. It represents the amount of each sweetener that can be safely ingested daily by a human over a lifetime without risk based on animal toxicity studies. The ADI is expressed as milligrams per kilogram of body weight. The ADI is not a maximum intake level. It is a
