Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


lifetime without risk based on animal toxicity studies. The ADI is expressed as milligrams per kilogram of body weight. The ADI is not a maximum intake level. It is a conservative estimate of the level-- a hundredth of the maximum level-- at which no observed adverse effect is seen in feeding studies of toxicity in experimental animals (243). Consumption of these low-calorie sweeteners at levels below the ADI is considered by the FDA to be safe for the entire population, including children and pregnant women (246). Exceptions for particularly vulnerable populations, such as individuals who suffer from phenylketonuria (a rare metallic disorder), who should not consume aspartame-sweetened products, are listed in the table, and on the product label. Low-calorie sweeteners such as stevia and monk fruit extracts that are GRAS are also are acceptable only for specified uses in specified amounts that are in line with traditional uses of these ingredients in human diets over the course of history. Generally Recognized as Safe (GRAS); substances are those that scientific experts have agreed are safe for use in appropriate amounts in foods and beverages, based largely on traditional use. They do not require the extensive testing required by FDA for food additives, but are permitted to be used only at specified levels (244). Also, some other compounds with sweet tastes, including thaumatin, neohesperidine, and glycyrrhizin are GRAS when used in small amounts for an intended use as flavor enhancers, but not as sweeteners. 9.9.3.2. Low calorie sweeteners that are currently approved by FDA: Saccharin —Sold under the brand names Sweet ‘N Low®, Sugar Twin®, and Sweet Twin®, saccharin is a non-nutritive sweetener that is not metabolized by the body and provides no calories. It has been on the market longer than any other low calorie sweetener. It is 300-500 times sweeter than sugar and is heat stable (246), but leaves a bitter metallic aftertaste in the mouth in individuals who have a certain dominant genetic trait. They can be identified by the ability to taste the chemicals ptc (phenylthiocarbamide) and PROP (6 propyl 2 thiouracil) as bitter or metallic. Those compounds do not appear in food but related compounds such as saccharine and possibly some of the Brassica vegetables have related compounds that are also tasted as bitter. About 70 % of Americans taste ptc related compounds in food as bitter, especially if they are not habituated to coffee or tea
