Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


compounds that are also tasted as bitter. About 70 % of Americans taste ptc related compounds in food as bitter, especially if they are not habituated to coffee or tea or non-smokers, and therefore in the USA saccharine is usually blended with other sweeteners in food and beverage products (252). Many Asians are very sensitive to a bitter taste, and formulations of low calorie soft drinks for them may use other sweeteners (247). The ADI for saccharin is 15 mg/kg/day. Studies in the 1970s in rats linked a lifetime exposure to high doses of saccharin to development of bladder cancer. This raised concerns about the safety of saccharin and led to a ban of saccharin in 1977 by the FDA, and great furor since at the time there were few other non-nutritive sweeteners on the market. Later, after the ban was lifted due to Congressional action, FDA required that products containing saccharin must carry a warning label (244). Subsequent human case- control and other studies showed no association between saccharin and bladder cancer development (254). In addition, it was later shown that physiological differences in bladder and urine chemistry between rats and humans were such that the bladder cancer-causing effect was specific only to rats, and that the toxic effect of tumors in rats was evident only with sodium saccharin but not with other forms of saccharin, and only with lifetime exposures to very high dosages of saccharin, equivalent to hundreds of servings per day in humans (247). After these studies were reviewed, in 2000 saccharin was delisted as a potential human carcinogen. However, products containing saccharin must still label saccharin in declarations on their ingredient list. Today, several professional societies, including the American Dietetic Association, American Medical Association, and American Cancer Society state that saccharin is safe and acceptable for use in all populations (242). Acesulfame K (Ace-K) —Under the brand names of Sunett® and SweetOne®, Ace-K is a combination of an organic acid and potassium. It is excreted from the body unchanged, and therefore does not yield either a net increase in calories or of potassium in humans. It is 200 times sweeter than sugar. It is heat stable, and thus is suitable for cooking and baking (242). Ace-K also leaves a metallic aftertaste in some people’s mouths when it is used by itself, and so it is usually combined with other sweeteners in sweetener blends, especially in
