Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


Ace-K also leaves a metallic aftertaste in some people’s mouths when it is used by itself, and so it is usually combined with other sweeteners in sweetener blends, especially in carbonated beverages. The ADI for Ace-K is 15 mg/kg/day; for a person of 70 kg that would be about 1050 mg. The typical amount of Ace-K in a 12-oz beverage is 40 mg and in a packet of tabletop sweetener it is 50 mg (257). Long-term human studies found no effects on cancer even at very high consumption levels of Ace-K. There are also no case reports documenting adverse health effects associated with Ace-K. Therefore, FDA permits Ace-K use in all population segments. An Ace-K metabolite, acetoacetamide, is toxic when consumed at very high doses, but the amount of acetoacetamide found in beverages sweetened with Ace-K is negligible. And therefore consumption of beverages sweetened with Ace-K is deemed to be safe (247). Sucralose —Sucralose is sold under the trade name of Splenda®. It is a sugar derivative, which replaces 3 hydrogen-oxygen groups on the sugar with 3 chlorine atoms. Although sucralose is derived from sugar, it is not absorbed nor do gut enzymes in humans metabolize sucralose as a carbohydrate. It is non-caloric (251). It is 600 times sweeter than sugar and is highly heat stable. Sucralose is used extensively in foods and beverages because it retains sweetness over a wide range of temperatures and storage conditions (242). The ADI for sucralose is 5 mg/kg/day. Sucralose had no significant effect on blood glucose control in individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus even at levels 3 times this amount over three months. Extensive research in humans and experimental animals has found no association between sucralose consumption and carcinogenicity or other health concerns (244). Therefore, sucralose appears to be safe and acceptable for human consumption. Aspartame —It is sold under the trade names NutraSweet®, Canderel®, Sanecta®, TriSweet®, E951 (for food ingredients), and Equal® (for the tabletop sweetener). Aspartame is a synthetic sweetener composed of aspartic acid and phenylalanine (256). It is used both as an ingredient and sold to consumers as a tabletop sweetener. Since it is metabolized to amino acids, aspartame provides 4 calories per gram. It is 160-220 times sweeter than sugar. Due to its intense sweetness, only a tiny amount (e.g. a few mg) is needed to sweeten a food and thus, the energy provided from the compounds is
