Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


than sugar. Due to its intense sweetness, only a tiny amount (e.g. a few mg) is needed to sweeten a food and thus, the energy provided from the compounds is negligible. Aspartame decomposes and loses its sweetness with heat and so it is not suitable for baking and cooking. However, it is used extensively in soft drinks, which account for more than 70% of aspartame consumption in the US (242). An 8-oz diet Coca Cola contains approximately 125 mg of aspartame and 60 mg of phenylalanine (257). The ADI of aspartame is 50 mg/kg/day (or about 3500 mg for a 70 kg individual). Due to the presence of phenylalanine in aspartame, individuals with phenylketonuria (PKU), a recessive inborn error of metabolism should be cautioned about aspartame consumption since they cannot metabolize phenylalanine effectively and the amino acid can accumulate in the blood, causing toxic metabolites and potentially neurological damage (242). Although this adverse effect is unlikely because the amounts of aspartame that are used in foods and as a sweetener is quite small, diet therapy for PKU includes limiting dietary phenylalanine, including aspartame. FDA requires products containing aspartame to carry the warning label “PHENYLKETOURICS: CONTAINS PHENYLALANINE.” The plasma response of phenylalanine to ingestion of aspartame varies in people with PKU, but most seem to tolerate the amount of phenylalanine in a single diet soda sweetened with aspartame (about 104 mg phenylalanine/12-oz can), so an immediate health crisis is unlikely should a person mistakenly drink a diet soda (244). However, caution is still indicated for PKU patients. In contrast, healthy adults show no significant change in plasma level of aspartic acid even with doses of aspartame about 4 times the ADI (4 times ADI is equal to 200 mg/kg/day) (256). In normal humans, plasma phenylalanine increases in a dose-response manner to aspartame dosage in the range of 2-100 mg/kg/day without any observed effects on cognitive function, but individuals with phenylketonuria are different and may be particularly sensitive (258). Aspartame is perhaps the most controversial sweetener of them all due to early claims in the 1970S of neurotoxicity in primates, which were later not confirmed, although the unproven claims continue to circulate on the Internet. One comprehensive review study on the safety of low-calorie sweeteners, including aspartame, stated that “much of potential misinformation about aspartame and health seems to be based on misunderstandings or partial scientific truths” (247) some consumers report adverse
