Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


of low-calorie sweeteners, including aspartame, stated that “much of potential misinformation about aspartame and health seems to be based on misunderstandings or partial scientific truths” (247) some consumers report adverse reactions to aspartame, including headache, facial edema, skin reactions, respiratory problems, seizures, and behavioral and cognitive changes, numerous controlled studies have failed to reproduce these adverse reactions reported. Adding to the controversy, aspartame was claimed by one Italian laboratory to be carcinogenic, but no associations between aspartame consumption and cancer development were found in a review of their data by a panel of experts in the experimental studies in rodents upon which the claim was based, and the studies themselves were criticized as being inadequate (256) Other data reviewed also were negative for adverse effects. The National Cancer Institute at NIH concluded that there was a lack of association between aspartame consumption and increased cancer risk, even at high intake levels after renewing all of the data (259). The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) panel in 2009 again reviewed all available scientific evidence on the safety of aspartame and concluded that there was no carcinogenic effect nor association with neurobehavioral disorders or other effects from it and that no further revision of the ADI was needed. The most recent statement of EFSA released in 2013 has also confirmed the safety of aspartame (260). Periodic updates will be made available. Current evidence suggests that aspartame is safe at levels below ADI other than for individuals with PKU, and there is no credible evidence showing carcinogenicity, neurotoxicity, and other adverse health outcomes even at levels above ADI. Neotame —Neotame is a relatively new non-nutritive low calorie sweetener, approved by FDA in 2002. It is used as an ingredient and also as a flavor enhancer that can modify other flavors in foods and beverages (246). Neotame is chemically related to aspartame, being composed of aspartic acid, methanol, and phenylalanine. Although they are similar in chemical structure, neotame and aspartame are completely different compounds with different physical and biological properties (247). Neotame is 7000-13000 times sweeter than sugar, thus only an infinitesimal amount is required for sweetening. The ADI for neotame is 2 mg/kg/day in other countries and 18 mg/day in the United States. Although neotame is metabolized into phenylalanine, a PKU warning label is not required for products containing neotame because the amount of neotame to sweeten a food is so tiny, owing
