Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


Although neotame is metabolized into phenylalanine, a PKU warning label is not required for products containing neotame because the amount of neotame to sweeten a food is so tiny, owing to its intense sweetness. Thus, exposure to phenylalanine from neotame is negligible and clinically insignificant (244). In addition, neotame is not directly metabolized to phenylalanine (252). The blockage of peptidases that break the peptide bond between aspartic acid and phenylalanine decreases the availability of phenylalanine in the bloodstream after neotame ingestion. Some concerns have been raised regarding neotame being neurotoxic due to the structural similarity to aspartame. However, no adverse effects of this sort or of other concerns have been found (258). Therefore, neotame is considered safe and acceptable for use in all populations. Advantame This ingredient is an intense low calorie non-nutritive sweetener approved in 2014. It is used chiefly as a food ingredient, and is not sold over the counter. It was approved in 2014 for use in foods and beverages; USDA must approve uses in meat and poultry as well. It is structurally somewhat similar to aspartame (295). Stevia (Stevioside, Steviol glycosides, Rebaudioside A)—These are sold under the trade names Truvia®, Sun Crystals®, PureVia®, Sweetleaf Sweetener®, Stevia in the Raw®, and Enliten®. Stevia leaves, often called “sweet leaf”, have been used for centuries in Asian and South American countries as non-caloric sweetener and traditional medicine (261). Steviol glycoside is the sweet component derived form leaves of Stevia rebaudiana. It is 250-300 times sweeter than sugar. Stevioside extracts have been used for sweetening in pickled vegetables, seafoods, soy sauce, soft drinks, and confectionary (262). Stevia leaves have also been used medicinally in Asia and South Africa for hypertension, hyperglycemia, obesity, and skin disorders, although the evidence for beneficial effects is scanty and none of these therapeutic uses are approved in the US. Stevioside is not metabolized nor absorbed by the digestive tract. The use of steviosides as a food ingredient was not initially approved in the United States although it was in Europe. Rather, it was sold in the US initially as a dietary supplement and therefore it could not be marketed as a sweetener since this was a different intended use. In 2008, FDA granted stevia GRAS status for use as a general-purpose sweetener in addition to use as a dietary supplement (263). Stevioside can now be found as an ingredient in beverages and as tabletop sweeteners.
