Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


status for use as a general-purpose sweetener in addition to use as a dietary supplement (263). Stevioside can now be found as an ingredient in beverages and as tabletop sweeteners. The Joint Expert Committee on Food Additives (JECFA) conducted a thorough scientific review on stevioside and concluded that it was safe for use in food and beverages with no major toxicity risk. The ADI of 0-4 mg/kg/day has recently been established by JECFA (296). 9.9.3.2 Nutritive low calorie sweeteners Polyols (Sugar alcohols) —Sugar alcohols (polyols) are considered nutritive sweeteners because they provide some calories in the diet. However, the amount of calories provided per gram is fewer than table sugar (about 2 vs 4 calories/gram) due to the alcohol’s incomplete digestion and absorption. The unabsorbed polyols reach the colon and cause subsequent fermentative degradation by intestinal bacteria (297, 248). Most polyols are about half as sweet as sugar. They replace sugar in the products for sweetness and volume, and therefore, products containing them can be labeled as “sugar-free”. Due to the osmotic effect of unabsorbed polyols in the large intestine, products containing polyols may cause bloating, gas, discomfort, and diarrhea when consumed in excess (e.g. > 50 g/day sorbitol and >20 g/day mannitol). Therefore, these products are required to carry the statement “Excess consumption may have a laxative effect” on the label. Sensitivities to this laxative effect differ among individuals. Children may be particularly sensitive to the laxative effects of polyols due to their smaller body size (244). Tolerance to polyols can be increased somewhat with a gradual increase of intake that allows for adaptation to their laxative effects (264). Polyols may also confer potential health benefits, such as reduction in dental caries, a lower glycemic response when they are used in place of sugar, provision of fewer calories than sugar, and possibly a prebiotic effect (265). The prebiotic effects are presently poorly documented. There are three subtypes or categories of Polyols Polyolnosaccharides: 1) Erythritol —Marketed under the brand name Zerose, erythritol is found naturally in pears, melons, grapes, and mushrooms. Due to its almost complete absorption and unchanged excretion in urine within 24 hours, erythritol may not have as potent a laxative effect as some of the other polyols. In addition, erythritol provides fewer calories per gram (0.2 calories per gram) than the other polyols (253, 264). Sorbitol —Usually found in sugar-free candies, chewing gums, baked goods, frozen desserts,
