Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


In addition, erythritol provides fewer calories per gram (0.2 calories per gram) than the other polyols (253, 264). Sorbitol —Usually found in sugar-free candies, chewing gums, baked goods, frozen desserts, and toothpaste, sorbitol is non-cariogenic. It is also slowly absorbed in the gut and metabolized independently of insulin (248, 253). Thus, it may be beneficial for individuals with diabetes. Mannitol —Extracted from seaweed, mannitol is poorly absorbed and may cause a stronger laxative effect at a relatively lower dose (10-20 gram) than other polyols (252, 253). It is used as a dusting powder for chewing gum, an ingredient in chocolate-flavored coating agents for ice cream and candies, and in pharmaceuticals. It also cools the mouth and masks bitter tastes. Xylitol —Xylitol is extracted from birch, raspberry, plum, and corn. It is often found in sugar-free gums, cough drops, mints, and oral health products. Several clinical trials have shown that xylitol is more effective in reducing dental caries than any of the other polyols. In addition, xylitol may even have a caries-preventive and anti-cariogenic effect (4). Due to this, FDA authorizes the health claim that “xylitol does not promote tooth decay” on product labels (256). 2) Polyol Disaccharides: Maltitol -- Derived from maltose, maltitol is a food ingredient that is metabolized into glucose and sorbitol by the gut flora. It is used in chocolate candies, jams, baked goods, and ice cream to give texture to products, and sometimes as a fat replacer (http://www.caloriecontrol.org/sweeteners-and-lite/polyols). Lactitol –Although it is derived from lactose, lactitol is not hydrolyzed by lactase in small intestine. Instead, it is fermented by the microflora in the large intestine and converted into biomass and short-chain fatty acids. Also, it acts as a prebiotic, stimulating growth of the gut bacteria. The health effects of this are uncertain, but because lactitol is fermented in the colon, it may act as prebiotic and may produce more intestinal discomfort than some of the other products (249, 253). Lactitol is used as an ingredient in bakery products, hard and soft candies, frozen dairy desserts, and chocolate (248) Isomalt —Under the trade name Palatinit, isomalt is incompletely metabolized into mannitol, sorbitol, and glucose in small intestine. It is noncariogenic and triggers only a low glycemic response (242). It is approved in most European countries and is added to candies, toffee, fudge, wafers, and cough drops. 90% of the isomalt is fermented further in colon, making it
