Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


(242). It is approved in most European countries and is added to candies, toffee, fudge, wafers, and cough drops. 90% of the isomalt is fermented further in colon, making it also a potential prebiotic (265). Intakes of 30 grams of isomalt might increase numbers of bifidobacteria in the colon, but evidence is still uncertain on this, and even if it did the effects of increased bifidobacteria on health are not yet well documented. 3) Polyol Polysaccharides: Hydrogenated starch hydrolysate (HSH) —HSH is produced by the hydrolysis of corn, wheat, or potato starch. Lycasin®, Hystar®, Stabilite®, and Roquette's 75/400 are the HSH brands currently available on the market. They are used mostly as bulking agents and food ingredients to provide sweetness, volume, and texture in commercially produced “sugarless” food products. HSH is metabolized into maltitol, sorbitol, and glucose to provide 3 calories per gram (253). The glycemic index of HSH is similar to that of maltitol, and about 40% of it is digested in the intestine (264). Therefore, it may be suitable for individuals with diabetes but this claim needs more evidence to support it. 9.9.3.4 Other sweeteners pending approval: These sweeteners are not yet fully approved by FDA for use in food: Cyclamate —Sold under the trade names SugarTwin® and Sucaryl®, cyclamate is 30 times sweeter than sugar, provides no calories, and blends well with other sweeteners. Most individuals do not metabolize cyclamate (252). It is approved for use as a tabletop sweetener in more than 50 countries, but re-approval is currently held abeyance and pending in the United States. Cyclamate has been banned in the US since 1969 based on a study suggesting the association between a saccharin/cyclamate blend sweetener and bladder cancer in rats (266). Cyclamate is converted to its metabolite, cyclohexylamine, which is relatively toxic and may cause bladder cancer in rats. High doses of cyclohexylamine cause male infertility in rats, although this effect is not observed in humans (247). Studies since 1969 have found no relationship between cyclamate and bladder cancer in humans, and this is the evidence that is currently being considered by FDA pending re-approval. FDA has stated that animal studies on mice and rats do not implicate cyclamate as a carcinogen. Alitame – Under brand name Aclame®, alitame is derived from amino acids alanine and aspartic acid. Only the aspartic acid component is metabolized, to yield 1.4 calories per gram. Since only a
