Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


Under brand name Aclame®, alitame is derived from amino acids alanine and aspartic acid. Only the aspartic acid component is metabolized, to yield 1.4 calories per gram. Since only a minute amount of the sweetener is used as a food ingredient, the energy provided is negligible. It is 2000 times sweeter than sugar and heat stable. Common applications of alitame are commercially produced baked goods, candies, frozen desserts, beverages, and pasteurized foods. Alitame has been approved by several countries and is pending approval in the USA (242, 253). Thaumatin —Sold under trade name Talin®, thaumatin is a protein sweetener that occurs naturally in a West African fruit Thaumatococcus danielli. It is 1600 times sweeter than sugar. However, it leaves a licorice-like aftertaste. Its application in food products is very limited due to the delayed appearance and extinction time of the sweet sensation and this licorice aftertaste (249). In the United States, thaumatin is recognized as GRAS as a flavor enhancer (especially in chewing gums), but not as a sweetener. The Joint Expert Committee on Food Additives (JECFA) reviewed the safety of thaumatin and found no toxicity. The ADI for thaumatin is not yet specified (244). Neohesperidine dihydrochalcone – A derivative of bioflavonoids in citrus fruits, neohesperidin dihydrochalcone is 1500 times sweeter than sugar but has different flavor profile. It also leaves a licorice aftertaste. However, it intensifies the mouth feel of juices, and thus has the potential to be used in fruit juice, chewing gums, and mouthwash (242). It is metabolized by the gut flora. Although it is approved in the European countries, it is recognized as GRAS only in amounts for use as a flavor enhancer in the United States, but not for the larger amounts that would be needed for use as a sweetener Glycyrrhizin —An extract from licorice root, glycyrrhizin is 30 times sweeter than sugar (247). It has limited use as a flavoring agent in some candies and tobacco due to its strong licorice flavor. It is also GRAS in the United States as a flavoring agent, flavor enhancer, and surfactant, but not as a sweetener (249). 9.9.3.5 POSSIBLE HEALTH BENEFITS OF LOW CALORIE SWEETENERS: Weight loss and maintenance At different times and places overindulgence of various foods has occurred. In the US today many people of all ages indulge in sugary sweet foods and beverages high in calories, and adults also in alcohol. Reduction of
