Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


various foods has occurred. In the US today many people of all ages indulge in sugary sweet foods and beverages high in calories, and adults also in alcohol. Reduction of food energy from any source, including these sources, will result in weight loss over the long term if other foods are not substituted for it. In 2014 the Obesity Society issued a statement that reduced consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages can reduce total caloric intake and that individuals and especially children and those with weight problems reduce their consumption of sugar sweetened beverages (298). Low calorie sweeteners offer an option other than water for alternative beverages, but the reality remains that in order to lose weight, the dieter must achieve and maintain a negative energy balance (e.g. Energy intake < energy expenditure) without compensating for what is e decreased by increasing intakes of other foods or beverages. . Some randomized-controlled studies have shown beneficial effects of low calorie sweeteners in weight management; with a small short-term weight loss (of about 0.2 kg/week) over placebo with the low calorie sweeteners plus a hypocaloric diet, and improved weight maintenance after the weight loss diet is discontinued while others do not (242, 267, 268, 269, 270). Another study found that when the artificial sweetener group (particularly aspartame) was compared to the control it showed a difference of about 5 kg (maintained a weight loss of 5.1 kg longer), when artificial sweeteners were substituted for caloric sweeteners in beverages and with a hypocaloric diet (267). Other studies were not as positive. A review of aspartame’s role on weight control in 2006 showed a weight loss of 0.2 kg/week when products sweetened with sucrose was substituted with aspartame (269) in a hypocaloric diet. Another study showed more successful maintenance of weight loss after three years in women who were encouraged to consume aspartame-sweetened products (247). In the most definitive study to date, of 303 participants who were overweight, during a 12 week weight loss program those who used low calorie sweetened beverages instead of water alone lost more weight than those in the control group (5.95kg vs 4.09 kg) and felt less hungry as well (299). However, in all of these studies, a weight loss regimen was essential as well, and without one it is likely that compensation would occur, wiping out any beneficial effects. The 2004 position statement of the American Dietetic Association therefore concluded
