Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


was essential as well, and without one it is likely that compensation would occur, wiping out any beneficial effects. The 2004 position statement of the American Dietetic Association therefore concluded that, “nonnutritive sweeteners have the potential to promote weight loss in overweight and obese individuals”. Low-calorie sweeteners provide sweetness and palatability to food, with only minimal or virtually no food energy calories. Substituting full-calorie products with low-calorie sweetened product results in fewer calories consumed (244). Assuming that there is no eventual calorie compensation in the regulation of food intake that should be helpful, but such compensation may in fact occur over time without a conscious effort on the dieter’s part to reduce intakes especially when people know they are consuming less calories. Calorie reduction may be achieved only when and as long as low-calorie sweeteners replace their full-calorie counterpart without any additional food eaten to compensate for amount of calories saved. Because excessive sugar intake might contribute to weight gain and obesity, owing to its effects on increasing caloric intake, a reduction in sugar intake through substitution of low-calorie sweeteners has been proposed to help prevent weight gain. The “AmericanOnTheMove” study in 2007 was conducted to investigate the effect of changes in diet and physical activity on excessive weight gain in overweight children. It showed that a replacement of dietary sugar with a low calorie sweetener (sucralose) in the diet might be an effective tool to reduce caloric intake and reach negative energy balance. However, it should be noted that the experimental group in the study was provided with Splenda products and compensation for participation in the study and these may have been added incentives to patients (300). Thus additional work is needed before the finding can be judged to be well established. The notion that low calorie sweeteners increase hunger or cravings by uncoupling the sensory and hedonic aspects of sweetness from their satiating effects and thus leading to overconsumption of sugary foods has not been borne out in recent studies. The appetite for sweetness does not seem to be increased by their use and there is no increase in appetite or hunger with consumption of low-calorie sweetened foods and beverages. (301) (242, 272). One American Dietetic Association’s position statement on nonnutritive sweeteners concluded that nonnutritive sweeteners had no effect on appetite, hunger, and fullness in adults at least, based on results from short-term studies (244). A more recent
