Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


statement on nonnutritive sweeteners concluded that nonnutritive sweeteners had no effect on appetite, hunger, and fullness in adults at least, based on results from short-term studies (244). A more recent statement of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics in 2012 found that the low calorie sweeteners when substituted for nutritive sweeteners might help consumers to limit carbohydrate and energy intakes as a strategy to manage blood glucose or weight. The American Heart Association/ American Diabetes Association stated in 2012 that some data suggested that low calorie sweeteners might be used in a structured diet to replace sources of added sugars, and that this substitution might result in modest energy intake reductions and weight loss. Low calorie sweeteners are also claimed to increase adherence in weight-loss programs by providing more palatable food choices from low-calorie sweeteners, and increasing satisfaction with the weight-loss diet (243, 246). These findings also need to be replicated, but it does appear that they have a neutral or slightly positive effect when accompanied by a hypocaloric diet. Improved quality of the diet When the caloric intake from added sugar exceeds 25% in usual diets, the amount of some micronutrients in the diet may be reduced and diet quality worsened (244). The theory is that by replacing foods and beverages containing added sugar with the ones containing low-calorie sweeteners, calories can be saved for consumption of more nutrient-dense foods and diet quality may be improved. For example, such products might be helpful for elderly who have decreased energy needs and people who are sedentary and thus require lower caloric intake. However, there is no definitive study to date that explores whether the relationship between use of low-calorie sweeteners and diet quality does in fact exist. One study compared nutrient and energy intakes, quantity of food consumed, and the knowledge and practices between the reduced-sugar foods users and the users of the full sugar versions of the same products (273). The study found that users of reduced-sugar products had higher micronutrient intakes as they reported higher fruits, lower intakes of added fat and sugar, and more label reading. However, this study was cross-sectional and only provided information at one point in time but not over time. Better-designed studies are needed to evaluate relationships between the use of low-calorie products and diet quality. Diabetes management Type 2 diabetes is common and appears to be on the rise. The cornerstone of
