Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


needed to evaluate relationships between the use of low-calorie products and diet quality. Diabetes management Type 2 diabetes is common and appears to be on the rise. The cornerstone of dietary therapy remains weight reduction if the patient is obese, and selected medical options including orlistat (Xenical), phentermine/lopiramate (Quymia) and lorcaserin (Belviq) to assist weight loss and various other medications to assist in the lowering and control of blood glucose levels. Intensive lifestyle interventions that promote weight loss in patients with type 2 diabetes have better outcomes than standard diabetes support and education, including use of fewer medications, lower health care costs and fewer hospitalizations (302). Since low-calorie sweeteners contain virtually no calories and no carbohydrates, they may help people with diabetes to use less sugar and make more healthful food choices, especially if they are trying to lose weight and control their blood sugar levels. However, weight loss will not occur if the dieter substitutes other foods for those that have been eliminated. The American Diabetes Association recommends the use of artificial sweeteners in a calorie controlled diet that also controls carbohydrate intake as part of medical nutrition therapy for diabetes, to better maintain blood glucose levels near normal and control carbohydrate intake (274). The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) reviewed data to substantiate health claims related to ability of low-calorie sweetener to reduce post-prandial glycemic response and the use of low-calorie sweetener and glycemic response in people with impaired glucose tolerance. It concluded that such a claim was valid, but that there was no causal relationship between replacement of sugar-sweetened foods and beverages with low-calorie sweeteners and maintenance of normal blood glucose levels (275). The Glycemic Index (GI) is defined as “the incremental area under the blood glucose response curve of 50 grams carbohydrate portion of a test food expressed as a percentage from a standard food taken by the same subject” (265). Foods with low GI value produce only small rise in blood glucose after ingestion, and thus may aid in control of blood sugar. All sugar alcohols are categorized as low-GI foods. In addition, certain sugar alcohols, sorbitol and xylitol, cause slow increase in plasma glucose due to delayed absorption and metabolism in the liver as well as providing low glycemic responses. Therefore, they may be helpful tools for managing blood glucose levels for people with diabetes. A recent systematic review on Stevia proposed the use
