Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


well as providing low glycemic responses. Therefore, they may be helpful tools for managing blood glucose levels for people with diabetes. A recent systematic review on Stevia proposed the use of stevia (stevioside) as an antihyperglycemic agent. Stevioside may decrease glucose levels by stimulating the production of insulin, based on studies in humans and animals (262). Another recent study on the effects of stevia, aspartame, and sucrose on postprandial glucose and insulin levels found reduction in postprandial blood glucose levels with consumption of stevia before lunch and dinner meals when compared to both aspartame and sucrose (272). However, better-designed studies on humans are needed to determine the effect of stevioside on glucose tolerance and insulinemia. A recent report hypothesized that low calorie sweeteners increased the risk of altered glucose tolerance and diabetes by altering the microbiome in the gut (Suez et al doi:1036/naturea13794). The claim was based on studies in mice fed very large doses of saccharin, aspartame or sucralose sweeteners which the workers claimed altered insulin resistance. However, when one low calorie sweetener, saccharin, was fed to 7 volunteers, blood sugar rose in 4 and did not change or diminished in the other 3. Other studies with larger sample sizes and more rigorous designs have failed to show adverse effects on glucose tolerance (303) Reduction of Dental Caries Dental caries is a complex disease, also involving teeth, bacteria, sugar, time, and saliva. Dietary sugar intake increases the risk of developing dental caries. Sugar (especially retentive forms of sugary foods that stay in the mouth) is metabolized by mutans streptococcus and other cariogenic bacteria on the surfaces of unclean teeth into acids, reducing the pH of the enamel and eroding it, causing decay. When the pH level falls below 5.5, tooth enamel demineralizes through the loss of calcium and phosphate ions (245). Demineralization can be reversed at the stage before the cavity is formed. Decreased sugar intake and good dental hygiene are an important strategy for prevention of dental plaque and dental caries. Therefore, substitution of low-calorie sweeteners (which are not fermented by the bacteria in the mouth) for sugar reduces sugar content of the diet, and thus may help prevent the development of dental caries (276). Sugarless gums and sugarless cough drops, mints, and lozenges also are non-cariogenic, which will not cause dental caries. It is well known that the low calorie nutritive sweeteners, the sugar alcohols, especially xylitol,
