Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


sugarless cough drops, mints, and lozenges also are non-cariogenic, which will not cause dental caries. It is well known that the low calorie nutritive sweeteners, the sugar alcohols, especially xylitol, have anti-cariogenic properties and prevent formation of dental caries. Polyols are generally not substrates for bacteria in dental plaque. They are not metabolized by the bacteria in dental plaque into acids. The lack of acid production prevents against demineralization of teeth and subsequent dental caries formation (245, 265). However, when polyols (especially sorbitol), are consumed in large amounts (for example, more than two sticks of chewing gum in one day) in animal studies, in one animal study, the number of sorbitol-fermenting bacteria in the mouth increased slightly, somewhat reducing this anti-cariogenic effect. Nevertheless, the fermentation of sorbitol remained very slow when compared to that of sucrose (277). Thus, the bacteria in the mouth adapt to restriction of sugar by alternatively metabolizing sorbitol, but the net effect of the substance still remains positive. More research is needed to on these effects in humans. Plaque formation may also be affected. In addition to their non-carcinogenicity, polyols also slow demineralization of tooth and promote remineralization of teeth that are with early lesion in the demineralization process. Chewing sugar-free gums containing polyols stimulates more saliva flow in the mouth. Saliva, which has high pH, acts as a buffer to acid production and washes away sugar and acids that could accumulate bacteria. In addition, saliva provides calcium and phosphate ions that can remineralize tooth enamel in the initial stage of demineralization before formation of carious lesion (265, 277). Among all the polyols, xylitol is the most effective in reducing and preventing dental plaque and caries. Xylitol is the least fermentable polyol. Cariogenic bacteria do not ferment it and thus, the pH of dental plaque does not decrease and the enamel is not eroded (245). Xylitol also inhibits the growth of plaque-forming bacteria themselves (particularly the mutans streptococci) because it is a poor substrate for the bacteria. Therefore, can reduce the accumulation of plaque on tooth enamel (277). The structure of xylitol allows it to form a complex with calcium ions (in a chelate-like structure), which can promote remineralization of tooth enamel, resulting in reversal of the early dental caries lesion (250). Xylitol also acts as a bacteriostatic agent, through the conversion of xylitol into xylitol-5-phosphate by some strains of streptococci. Xylitol-6-phosphate degrades cell membrane of
