Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


the early dental caries lesion (250). Xylitol also acts as a bacteriostatic agent, through the conversion of xylitol into xylitol-5-phosphate by some strains of streptococci. Xylitol-6-phosphate degrades cell membrane of the bacteria and thus, reduces plaque quantity and adhesivity (265). Interestingly, xylitol can also help prevent intra-familial transmission of mutans streptococci from mothers to infants through its property to reduce mutans streptococci quantity (250, 277). Infants can be infected with mutans streptococci through oral transmission from mothers. Infants whose mothers chewed xylitol-sweetened gum had lower counts of mutans streptococci. Therefore, xylitol may also help protect against maternal transmission of cariogenic bacteria. 9.9.3.6 POSSIBLE HEALTH CONCERNS: Safety In the USA the Food and Drug Administration permits the sale of all of the low calorie sweeteners mentioned above. In the European Union, cyclamate is also allowed and considered safe. The products have been judged to be safe for consumption by pregnant women. However, one low calorie sweetener, aspartame (sold as NutraSweet and Equal), should be avoided in pregnancy by women who are homozygous carriers of phenylketonuria because it is metabolized to phenylalanine. In such women at very high levels phenylalanine crosses into fetal circulation and may increase risks of mental retardation. In pregnant women, there is one report that more than one diet drink per day increased risk of preterm delivery (OR 1.38, 1.15-1.65) but this has not been confirmed (304) However, other investigators have not been able to confirm the finding. The European Food Safety Authority recently conducted a full risk assessment on aspartame in view of concerns on the part of consumers that included both animal and human studies. Its’ conclusion, issued in 2013, was that aspartame and its breakdown products were safe for human consumption at current levels of exposure (the ADI for aspartame is 40 mg/kg/day). It added that for patients with phenylketonuria, the ADI was not applicable because they require strict adherence to a diet low in phenylalanine. However threw a no risk to developing fetuses at the current ADI with the exception of women suffering from phenylketonuria. (296). The Dietary Guidelines 2015 Advisory Committee’s draft conclusion for its final report concurred with the EFSA Panel and judged the evidence as moderate that aspartame in amounts commonly consumed was safe and posed minimal health risk for healthy individuals without PKU (including those at risk of most cancers, seizures and cognitive/behavioral problems in children and adults) (305). Other
