Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


consumed was safe and posed minimal health risk for healthy individuals without PKU (including those at risk of most cancers, seizures and cognitive/behavioral problems in children and adults) (305). Other risks are not well documented. For example, in some observational studies, low calorie sweeteners have been found to be associated with risks of metabolic syndrome (306, 307), with type 2 diabetes (308), or with coronary heart disease and kidney disease (309). However, other observational data show that there is an absence of adverse effects. For example, in the CARDIA study, those consuming a healthy diet pattern with diet beverages showed lower risks of elevated glucose and low HDL cholesterol than did others (310). More impressively in a randomized clinical trial, the CHOICE study, it was found that the diet drinks group showed declines in blood pressure and fasting glucose that were no different than those of controls. The goal was to replace caloric beverages with water or diet beverages to assist weight loss in this randomized single center single blind study of 318 overweight or obese adults studied over a 6 month period. The subject received water alone plus a monthly group website class, a low calories sweetened diet beverage along with the monthly group website, or only the website education on weight loss. None of the groups achieved large weight losses; the largest was the diet beverage group with a loss of 2.5% of body weight, and the smallest was the attention control with 1.5% weight loss at 6 months. The group consuming the diet beverage showed a greater likelihood of achieving a 5% weight loss compared to the attention control (OR 2.29, 95% CI 1.05, 5.01 P=0.04) while the water group did not differ from the control in terms of its likelihood of achieving a 5% weight loss (311, 312). Effects were similar in another study that included weight maintenance. Dieters were given added advice to use the low calorie sweetener aspartame in a yearlong multidisciplinary program of weight loss and two year follow up, while others were not. The differences between the two groups were small but during maintenance the low calorie sweetener users kept more weight off than those who were non-users (267). Even among those who use many low calorie sweetened foods and beverages, there is little likelihood that they will reach the ADI. For example, one would have to eat 75 low calorie sweetened
