Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


who use many low calorie sweetened foods and beverages, there is little likelihood that they will reach the ADI. For example, one would have to eat 75 low calorie sweetened yoghurts a day for one’s entire lifetime to achieve the ADI for one common low calorie sweetener. In children there is a concern that low calorie sweetened beverages might displace milk and 100% juice, although this fear is not well documented by evidence it has led to regulations that do not include low calorie sweeteners as permitted foods in elementary schools. The American Academy of Pediatrics has recommended that nonnutritive sweeteners should not form a “significant part “ of a child’s diet, and the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics views them as safe for children within the range of the ADI (244). Concern has been expressed based on some observational studies, that low calorie sweetened beverages might be associated with long-term weight gain (313, 314), but others show decreased body weight (315), or both increases and decreases (316). However, in a recent met-analysis of 15 randomized controlled trials, which are considered to be superior in assessing causal inference, as well as 9 prospective cohort studies, the correlation between low calorie sweeteners and body weight favored them very clearly over the comparator arms in the randomized studies, and were not significant in the prospective cohort studies (317). The results suggest that other factors, including reverse causation (that is, low calorie sweetener users being more likely to be obese, gaining weight and trying to control their weight gain rather than the sweeteners causing the weight gain may have been present. People who have maintained their weight loss over the long term use fewer sugar sweetened beverages and more low calorie sweetened beverages than to always normal weight persons (318), and in the US National Weight Control Registry long term weight maintainers also used more water, low calorie sweetened beverages and less alcohol and sugary drinks and juices. Increased appetite and intake There have been claims of a paradoxical effect of low-calorie sweeteners on appetite stimulation, leading to an increase in food intake. A 1986 study from the United Kingdom (278) compared the effect of water sweetened with aspartame versus plain water on hunger level. Those consuming highly sweetened water rated their hunger level higher than those who consumed only water. However, the study examined only perceived hunger level, which was subjective, and
