Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


hunger level. Those consuming highly sweetened water rated their hunger level higher than those who consumed only water. However, the study examined only perceived hunger level, which was subjective, and did not really assess participants’ actual food intake. A subsequent study showed no increase in actual food intakes 1 hour after consumption of solutions sweetened with saccharin, aspartame, and acesulfame-K (279). Another theory of how low-calorie sweeteners might be orexigenic (enhance intake) involves stimulation of food reward pathways in the hypothalamus after ingestion of food (in this case, glucose). Sweetness stimulates the mesolimbic dopaminergic system, producing a feeling of satisfaction and can stimulate food intake (280, 281). Some evidence suggests that such pathway was not observed with ingestion of low-calorie sweeteners. One study using functional magnetic resonance imaging showed longer suppression of this signal in the hypothalamus with glucose ingestion in normal weight men, but found no such effect with sucralose ingestion. Thus, the lack of responsiveness to this signal from consumption of low-calorie sweeteners might theoretically lead to motivation to seek more food (281). However, at present, the evidence is insufficient to conclude that low-calorie sweeteners enhance appetite or food intake, and more research is needed. Psychobiological signaling between food and the gut as well as energy compensation of meals are two other proposed explanations of how low-calorie sweeteners may lead to overconsumption and weight gain. The psychobiological theory is that low-calorie sweeteners, unlike caloric sweetener, only provide sweetness but not the food energy (282). When sweetness is not accompanied by calories, there is no signal to provoke cephalic phase of digestion in the gut to prepare for arrival of nutrients and to begin the process of energy utilization and thermogenesis. The animal model showed less effective energy regulation through this mechanism, leading to excessive calorie intake and weight gain. In addition, a theory on energy homeostasis has been proposed as another possible mechanism for speculated weight gain from low-calorie sweeteners. Energy compensation, which is the adjustment of energy intake on subsequent meals based on amount of energy consumed on the prior meal, may be disrupted when caloric sweeteners is replaced with low-calorie sweeteners (283). Because low-calorie sweeteners provide only negligible amounts of energy, an upward compensation by increasing intake on subsequent meals is expected. More importantly, some worry that use of low-calorie sweeteners could lead people to believe that they could consume more of other foods to compensate
