Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


intake on subsequent meals is expected. More importantly, some worry that use of low-calorie sweeteners could lead people to believe that they could consume more of other foods to compensate for lower energy from low-calorie sweetened foods and beverages (280). Overall, there is no current evidence on humans to validate any of these theories. However it is clear that inappropriate use of low calorie nutritive or non-nutritive sweeteners that leads those attempting to control their weights to throw all caution in consumption to the winds will nullify any potentially positive effects that they might have. Low calorie sweeteners have no or modest effects on weight loss and weight maintenance unless accompanied by a hypocaloric diet A number of studies have been conducted or are now in progress to determine the effects of low-calorie sweetened beverages on weight changes and metabolic health effects in adults and children in adults, epidemiological studies of children and adolescents are mixed, some showing associations of low calorie sweeteners are associated with increased body weight (319). Two studies (the cross-sectional National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) and the semi-longitudinal San Antonio Heart Study), found positive associations between the use of non-nutritive sweeteners and an increase in body mass index (BMI) (268). However, the design was such that it is not clear if obese people used more low-calorie sweeteners (more likely) or whether low-calorie sweeteners caused them to be obese (less likely). Another longitudinal cohort study found a positive correlation between increased consumption of diet soda and BMI z-scores after two years in 164 elementary school aged children (284). However, the study design again was not such that it could demonstrate a causal relationship between the two, possibly the effects were again due to reverse confounding (e.g. the obese who are most likely to gain weight were those who also used more diet products). Attributes of causal relationships such as strength of association, temporal relationship, consistency of findings, biological plausibility, and strong dose-response relationship, need to be considered when epidemiologic studies of low-calorie sweetener consumption and weight gain are examined. In the few small randomized trials of overweight and obese children, low calorie sweeteners do not or only minimally decrease weight and body mass index (320, 321, 322). Therefore, although there is no strong evidence that use of low-calorie non-nutritive sweeteners (especially in beverages) increases weight, there is also little evidence that it decreases it substantially.
