Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


321, 322). Therefore, although there is no strong evidence that use of low-calorie non-nutritive sweeteners (especially in beverages) increases weight, there is also little evidence that it decreases it substantially. However, adding several interventions, such as was done in the 6 month America on the Move study, in which 192 families with at least 1 overweight child were randomized to either an intervention involving increasing physical activity by 2000 steps a day and decreasing sugar by 100 Calories per day with a low calorie sweetener or to a control group which involved only self-monitoring, the two interventions together did show small but greater changes in body mass index for age among the children at month 6 (323). Another theory to explain the purported association between low-calories sweeteners and weight gain is that lower carbohydrate intake may result in higher fat intake. A reduction in carbohydrate intake by replacing sucrose with low-calorie sweetener is claimed to lead to a higher proportion of energy coming from fat, which in turn may lead to weight gain. However, accumulating evidence does not support the claim that macronutrient shifts occur from the replacement of low-calorie sweeteners and an increased fat intake in the diet (280). Another potential, but unproven theory based on a study in rats linking low-calorie sweeteners and weight gain is that the gut microflora are altered when they are exposed to low-calories sweeteners. Changes in gut microflora might then trigger inflammatory pathways; promoting insulin resistance, fat accumulation, and weight gain in the individual (286). There is no evidence in humans to support this claim, and the evidence in experimental animals is mixed at best.. Development of a “sweet tooth” due to low calorie sweeteners? Artificially sweetened and calorically sweetened foods and beverages are claimed to increase the preference for a sweet taste, with an increase in consumption of artificial sweetened beverages may change taste preferences toward sweet foods, especially in children (268). This preference is feared by some to bring about the replacement of healthful foods with sweets, and thus may be associated with lower diet quality in children. However, at present little evidence exists that this is so. In addition, repeated exposure to sweetness could lead to an increased acceptance of sweet sensation as a result of learned behavior and the exposure to sweetness in low-calorie sweetener might establish preference to sweetness in the same manner as other sugars (280). Low-calorie
