Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


sweet sensation as a result of learned behavior and the exposure to sweetness in low-calorie sweetener might establish preference to sweetness in the same manner as other sugars (280). Low-calorie non-nutritive sweeteners have been shown to activate sweet-taste receptors in the gut in the same manner as sugar does in animal studies. T1R2 and T1R3 are transmembrane sweet-taste receptor proteins found in the gut of both rodents and humans (286, 287). Compounds with a sweet-taste (e.g. sugar and low-calorie sweeteners) bind to these receptors, stimulating signaling pathway to the brain in experimental animals. This leads to changes in electrophysiological patterns in the brain, resulting in preference of sweetness. At present, the evidence that low-calorie sweeteners encourage or exacerbate sweet tooth remains scattered. More research is needed. What can be said with certainty is that infants and young children do not require low-calorie sweeteners although they are judged as safe by the FDA. The American Dietetic Association (ADA) suggests that parents of children less than 2 years of age discuss use of those products with their pediatricians to ensure that childrens’ needs are met (244). Concerns about ensuring that children and adolescents learn good food habits have led some individuals and expert groups to recommend that schools restrict the use of calorically sweetened beverages and high-calorie, low nutrient density sweet foods that are also high in added sugars (288). However, some of those reports have also recommended against the sale of low-calorie sweetened beverages in school, not for safety reasons, but to foster nutrition education. The rationale for doing so is not entirely clear, but nonetheless, many elementary and secondary schools now do not permit non-nutritive sweetened or calorically sweetened beverages in schools. Research is needed to determine if such a prohibition has intended effects on nutrition education, development of a “sweet tooth”, dental caries, weight gain or maintenance, overall intakes of sugar, added sugar, or food energy, or other objective standpoints. Also, unintended effects, such as more extensive overall use of the products as gestures of defiance must be assessed. Metabolic Syndrome Some large prospective cohort studies found associations between intakes of low-calorie sweeteners and incidence of metabolic syndrome, but the designs were such that cause and effect could not be demonstrated (289). Proponents that such a link is causal suggest that the association is due to deregulation of glucose homeostasis caused by the use of artificial sweeteners. Another, simpler,
