Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


be demonstrated (289). Proponents that such a link is causal suggest that the association is due to deregulation of glucose homeostasis caused by the use of artificial sweeteners. Another, simpler, explanation is a reverse causation. One study on consumption of diet soda in young healthy volunteers before an oral glucose challenge showed an increase in secretion of GLP-1, the anti-hyperglycemic hormone released by intestinal cells, which can alter gastric emptying and secretion of insulin. Whether the low-calorie sweeteners in fact had these effects is not yet clear; the study has not been replicated. The concern raised is that consumption of artificial sweeteners together with foods and drinks containing sugar may lead to increased GLP-1 and insulin secretion, which may result in more rapid sugar absorption and perhaps in turn, could influence blood sugar levels. However, at present, evidence is lacking that this is the case. Evidence from in vitro and rat studies suggests that low-calorie sweeteners stimulate the sweet-taste receptors in the gut, causing the up-regulation of transporters, sodium-dependent glucose transporter (SGLT 1) and glucose transporter 2 (GLUT 2), on the apical membrane of the small intestine to increase glucose uptake. In addition, low-calorie sweeteners (especially sucralose and saccharin) may also stimulate release of incretin (GLP-1), a gut hormone that stimulates insulin release after ingestion of glucose. This cascade of intestinal uptake transporters, incretin, and insulin release may disrupt glucose homeostasis (286, 287). However, extensive number of studies conducted in humans showed no such effect. Overall, there is no consistent evidence in humans that low-calorie non-nutritive or nutritive sweeteners have adverse effects on insulin release and blood glucose homeostasis. 9.9.3.7 SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS None of the low-calorie sweeteners permitted by FDA on the US market are necessary in human diets or for human health. However, some consumers enjoy the sweet taste of nutritive or non-nutritive low calorie sweeteners and there is no reason to discourage their use on safety or health grounds. All FDA-approved sweeteners are safe for use by the general population, pregnant women (except phenylketonurics), and children (except phenylketonurics) as doses below the Acceptable Daily Intake (ADI). For pregnant women (other than those with PKU) the American Academy of Pediatrics has stated that aspartame is safe for pregnant women and their developing infants. There is also evidence that acesulfame K, sucralose, and the sugar alcohols are safe for pregnant women in small amounts. Little research has been conducted
