Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


women and their developing infants. There is also evidence that acesulfame K, sucralose, and the sugar alcohols are safe for pregnant women in small amounts. Little research has been conducted on the safety of saccharin and stevia in pregnant women. None of the low-calorie nutritive or non-nutritive sweeteners are perfect substitutes for sugar from the standpoint of taste, mouth feel, and functionality in food processing and preparation, but they are acceptable to many people. Most of the nutritive and non-nutritive low-calorie sweeteners are non-cariogenic. Xylitol also appears to have an anti-cariogenic property as well, enhancing remineralization of tooth enamel. The best-documented adverse effects with low-calorie sweeteners are from poorly absorbed nutritive low-calorie sweeteners (sugar alcohols) that have laxative effects when consumed in large amounts. A theoretical hazard exists for aspartame with very heavy use of individuals with phenylketonuria (PKU). Other health concerns, such as the fostering of a “sweet tooth” that leads to excessive energy intakes are poorly documented. Low calorie sweeteners may be helpful in weight control if they are substituted for some of the caloric sweeteners in the diet and calorie intakes are also reduced. Otherwise, they appear to have little effect. Their use alone without healthful eating, physical activity, and behavior change is unlikely to be helpful in weight management. Low-calorie sweeteners contribute little or nothing to the glycemic response and as such may have advantages over caloric sweeteners for individuals who need to control their blood sugar levels. There is no current scientific reason to recommend against the use of low calorie sweeteners for those who are trying to lose weight and wish to use them. For patients or other users who are concerned about excessive intakes of nutritive or non-nutritive low calorie sweeteners, the best advice is to use several different types of low-calorie sweeteners so that doses of any one compound are low and to always stay below the ADI, or to not use them. Table 20 is a description of nutritive and nonnutritive low-calorie sweeteners approved by the FDA or recognized as generally recognized as Safe (GRAS). The table describes the following for each non-nutritive and nutritive sweetener; brand name, definition, characteristics, metabolism and excretion, chemical structures, sweetness, calories, ADI, year approved, uses, health benefits, health concerns and additional comments. Table 20 . Nutritive and Non-nutritive low-calorie sweeteners approved by FDA or recognized as Generally Recognized as Safe (GRAS) (242-291). View in own
