Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


health benefits, health concerns and additional comments. Table 20 . Nutritive and Non-nutritive low-calorie sweeteners approved by FDA or recognized as Generally Recognized as Safe (GRAS) (242-291). View in own window Non-nutritive sweeteners Nutritive Sweeteners Names Aspartame Acesulfame-K Saccharin Sucralose Neotame Advantame Steviosides Mannitol Xylitol Sorbitol Erythritol Brand names NutraSweet®, Equal®, others Sunett®, Sweet One® Sweet’N Low®, Sweet Twin, Sugar Twin®, Necta Sweet® Splenda® Used as ingredient in food products. Used as an ingredient in food and beverage products Stevia®, Truvia™, Sun Crystals®, PureVia™, Sweetleaf Sweetener™ Used as ingredient in food products. XyloSweet Used as ingredient in food products. Zerose Definition Synthetic sweetener composed of aspartic acid and phenylalanine. A combination of an organic acid and potassium. Synthetic sweetener in forms of sodium or calcium saccharin. A sugar derivative by replacing 3 hydroxyl groups with 3 chlorine atoms on the sugar molecule. Dipeptide methyl ester derived from aspartic acids and phenylalanine. Synthetic sweetener produced in a 3-step process that ultimately combines aspartame and HMPA Derived from the leaves of Stevia rebaudiana plant in South America. Known as “sweet leaf.” A hexose alcohol extracted from seaweed. An intermediate product of carbohydrate metabolism from xylan-containing plants. A hexose alcohol from hydrogenation of glucose and fructose with nickel catalyst. A tetrose alcohol derived from the cultivation of yeast-like fungi on glucose. Characteristics Loses sweetness with high heat. Highly heat stable for cooking and baking. Metallic aftertaste. Highly heat stable for cooking and baking. Bitter metallic aftertaste. Highly heat stable for cooking and baking. Highly heat stable for cooking and baking. Clean sweet sucrose-like taste. Heat Stable for cooking and baking. Clean sweet sucrose like taste. Ultra high potency. Heat stable. Licorice aftertaste. Enhances sweet and savory flavors. Lacks bulking property. Heat stable. High melting point. Non-hygroscopic(does not pick up moisture). Sweetest of sugar alcohols. Quickly dissolves. Produces cooling effect in the mouth. Heat stable and highly soluble. Does not cause browning. Humectant (retain moisture). Very water-soluble. Non-hygroscopic. Non-nutritive sweeteners Nutritive Sweeteners Metabolism and Excretion Broken down into aspartic acid, phenylalanine, and methanol upon digestion. All compounds are metabolized normally, except in individuals with PKU. Not metabolized and excreted unchanged by kidneys. Not metabolized and excreted unchanged by kidneys. Not randomized and excreted by the kidneys and in feces. Partially absorbed and excreted in feces and urine. Not absorbed in small intestine. Degraded into steviol by bacteria in the colon, where it is absorbed.
