Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


chewable multivitamins, foods for special dietary needs. Sugar-free candies, chewing gums, frozen desserts, pastries Bulk sweetener in diet food products, candies, beverages, fat-based creams, chewing gums, confection, yogurt. Health benefits Virtually calorie free. Calorie free. Calorie free. Calorie free. Calorie free. Calorie free. Calorie free. Claimed to have a hypoglycemic effect. Low calorie content. Non-cariogenic. Low glycemic response. Low calorie content. Reduces dental plaque and caries and may promote tooth remineralization. Low glycemic response. Low calorie content. Slow absorption and metabolism independently of insulin might benefit for diabetics. Calorie free. Unlikely to have a laxative effect. Non-cariogenic.. Low glycemic response. Non-nutritive sweeteners Nutritive Sweeteners Health concerns All should be used at levels below the ADI. Strong laxative effect at >20 mg/day. Strong laxative (> 50 mg/day) and also diuretic effects. Flatulence and diarrhea. Comment Requires a label that product contains phenylalanine. Does not require a label for phenylalanine content due to negligible amount used and low availability of phenylalanine from the neotame. Requires a warning label for a possible laxative effect. Requires a warning label for a possible laxative effect. *Relative sweetness as compared to sucrose (table sugar). 1= reference value which is the sweetness of sucrose. ** ADI = Acceptable Daily Intake *** Other non-nutritive low-calorie sweeteners (Alitame, Thaumatin, Neohesteridine, and Glycyrrhizin) are not yet approved as both sweeteners and as GRAS in the US. See text for details.http://beverageinstitute.org/ 9.10 Energy Density Energy density, or caloric density, is defined as the calories provided per unit weight of food eaten (such as calories/gram). When the composition of a diet of usual foods is decreased in fat, the energy density of the diet tends to fall since the total weight of food consumed remains constant, or may increase (196-198) . Some of the beneficial effects of low fat diets in weight loss and maintenance may be due, at least in part, to low energy-density, which may promote satiety. The premise is that if foods bring more weight than calories into the body, gastric distention and intestinal bulking may promote fullness. For example, foods high in water and/or fiber tend to have low energy density, with some that are very high in volume, such as unbuttered popcorn. Their inclusion in a weight reduction diet is advocated by some experts for this reason (10), and because they might increase overall dietary quality (199). As will be discussed later, some evidence suggests that low-energy
