Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


reduction diet is advocated by some experts for this reason (10), and because they might increase overall dietary quality (199). As will be discussed later, some evidence suggests that low-energy density, high-volume diets may help people ingest fewer calories and thus may assist with weight loss, although longer-term research is needed (200; 201;199). 9.11 Volume of Food Low energy density is the basis of the “Volumetrics” diet put forth by Dr. Barbara Rolls. This diet is high in fruits, vegetables, cooked whole grains and fibrous foods, which are high in water and bulk, to add volume for satiety without extra calories (285). In a one year study completed by 71 obese women, the low energy density diet group showed slightly better weight loss than a low fat diet group, and reported lower hunger (324). Cross-sectional work has shown that people who maintain large amounts of weight loss over years tend to eat a lower energy density diet than normal weight or obese subjects (201). Some other diets tend to be low in energy density without specifically targeting energy density, through their inclusion of fruits, vegetables, and fibrous foods (199). 10 Available Programs According to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Americans spent an estimated $30 billion in 1992 on diet and weight loss programs. Market data, an independent market research and consulting firm, has estimated annual spending on diet and weight loss programs to have reached $61 billion by 2013 (203). The number of products and programs available to consumers is essentially endless, and the quality of what is available can be questionable. Therefore, patients should be advised to research programs or products they are interested in, and consult with a physician before utilizing any commercial weight loss option. 10.1 Registered Dietitians: Dietetic Advice and Individualized Eating Plans A registered dietitian is a food and nutrition expert who has met academic and professional requirements including: A bachelor’s degree at an accredited university, approved by the Commission on Accreditation for Dietetics Education (CADE) of the American Dietetic Association (ADA). Completed an accredited, supervised, experiential practice program (dietetic internship) at a health-care facility, community agency, and/or foodservice corporation, including at least 900 hours of hands-on experience. Pass a national examination administered by the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR). Complete continuing professional education requirements to maintain registration. Many physicians lack the time that obese patients require for successful weight control therapy. Referral
