Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


by the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR). Complete continuing professional education requirements to maintain registration. Many physicians lack the time that obese patients require for successful weight control therapy. Referral for dietary counseling to a registered dietitian (RD) is useful for many patients, particularly those who have comorbidities that also require medical nutrition therapy. Many registered dietitians also hold certifications in specialized areas of practice, including weight management, providing additional expertise in the management and treatment of obesity (203). They are able to understand more complicated therapeutic dietary recommendations that many patients, especially those with comorbidities, require. Practicing registered dietitians in your area can be located using the website for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics at http://www.eatright.org/. 10.1.1 Available Programs There are over 67,000 registered dietitians in the United States, practicing in hospitals, outpatient centers, health centers, the community, and in private practices, among many other areas of expertise (204). Patients can see a registered dietitian via patient referrals from physicians for a variety of health problems that require dietary modification, or by self-made appointments. Depending on the area of dietary modification/treatment, health insurance may, or may not, cover the services provided, so patients need to check with their insurance providers before scheduling an appointment. Some formal weight control programs staffed by dietitians are available in hospitals and health centers, where individual counseling is also available. 10.1.2 Candidates for Care Dietary advice of a general nature is not enough for patients who have multiple comorbidities requiring medical nutrition therapy (e.g., diabetes, hypertension, coronary artery disease, gastrointestinal disorders, etc.), those on multiple medications, and those with complex and involved health problems that have dietary implications. These patients are prime candidates for dietetic therapy with a dietitian. Patients who have had poor outcomes in weight control efforts on their own, who have special dietary needs or preferences, and who need extensive education and assistance are also particularly likely to benefit. 10.1.3 Advantages Registered dietitians are able to read and interpret medical records and are equipped to adopt weight loss prescriptions to the particular needs of patients. Their knowledge of food habits, food preparation, and food products on the market makes them an excellent resource for helping patients to adopt the general weight control prescription to ta patient’s particular circumstances. A particular advantage of dietetic involvement in patient care is that dietitians often work in medical settings and have access to patient
