Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


weight control prescription to ta patient’s particular circumstances. A particular advantage of dietetic involvement in patient care is that dietitians often work in medical settings and have access to patient charts, as well as the ability to consult with other health professionals. Registered dietitians are helpful in treating patients on multiple medications, on very-low-calorie diets, and post-gastric bypass counseling. Some dietitians have advanced certification in weight management, and are especially well equipped to counsel patients with complex and involved medical problems. Some insurance companies and health maintenance organizations may pay for obesity treatment when it is part of a larger therapeutic program for conditions such as diabetes if it involves a dietitian who is a certified Medicare provider. Patients should check with their insurance providers about reimbursement. 10.1.4 Disadvantages The patient’s out-of-pocket costs for dietary counseling from a registered dietitian vary, depending on insurance coverage and the comorbidities that need to be treated/addressed. It is important to note that personal trainers and/or nutritionists do not necessarily have the credentials to be counseling patients on nutrition and dieting. This is particularly true of patients who have comorbidities. . Providers should encourage patients seeking counseling on their own to look for the “registered dietitian” credential. 10.1.5 Safety and Effectiveness of Therapy Registered dietitians are health professionals who go through extensive schooling and training and are registered in a national registry with specific standards. Licensure is also required in 31 states. Registered dietitians, therefore, have medical, legal, and ethical obligations to their patients. Their own education includes formal educational requirements of at least a baccalaureate degree, a dietetic internship, supervised clinical training, a registration exam, and mandatory continuing education. Dietitians are trained to read medical charts, to work with physicians and other allied health professionals, and to alert physicians when untoward events arise. Thus, their recommendations regarding weight loss are likely to be safe and evidenced-based. The effectiveness of dietetic counseling, like that of physician counseling for weight control, has seldom been evaluated. 10.2 Commercial Weight Loss Programs Commercial non-medical weight control programs are popular and widely available in the United States and Canada. They will be discussed in detail in the following section. 10.2.1 Available Programs Commercial programs include large chains such as Weight Watchers®, Jenny Craig®, LA Weight Loss Centers®, Nutrisystem®, and many regional ventures. These programs vary, but generally include advice on a structured low calorie diet, exercise, lifestyle modification
