Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


as Weight Watchers®, Jenny Craig®, LA Weight Loss Centers®, Nutrisystem®, and many regional ventures. These programs vary, but generally include advice on a structured low calorie diet, exercise, lifestyle modification coupled with group support and/or individual counseling. Oftentimes, there are options for delivery of pre-portioned reduced-calorie meals. Usually the program is administered by a layperson trained by the program who is often a successful program graduate. However, laypersons trained by the company and degree-trained professionals (such as dietitians) may also be on their staff. It should be noted that these programs do not provide physician supervision although they usually require physician sign-off before involvement (105). All of these programs are for-profit entities and charge fees (196). With the growth of the Internet, many programs now offer online support as an adjunct or replacement to more traditional in-person individual or group counseling. A sample of some popular commercial programs is outlined below in Table 21. Table 21 Popular Commercial Programs View in own window Product Comments Jenny Craig® (Nestle Nutrition®) www ​.jennycraig.com A commercial program where dieters are paired with trained consultants, often program graduates, who help set goals, plan weekly meal plans, and provide support through in person and phone meetings. The program also includes home-delivered pre-portioned food that provided 3 meals and a dessert or snack each day. The meals are designed to promote 1-2 lbs of weight loss each week using portion control. The plan starts at $19 per month, plus the cost of food, which ranges from $16-$23 per day. A full line of products is also available to be purchased outside the official program in retail outlets. Options in this line range from Complete Meals to Café Steamers. Meals are between 180-410 calories and are available at most local grocers. There are also desert options. These products fulfill American Heart Association heart checklist program criteria, and are lower in sodium than some other brands Nutrisystem® (Nutrisystem Inc. ®) www ​.nutrisytem.com Participants in the program receive all meals, snacks, and desserts via home delivery. Foods may be chosen a la carte or according to a meal plan with predetermined food choices. Various plans are offered for men and women in different categories: basic for the budget conscious, core for added convenience and variety, select for the most variety, diabetic for diabetics, and vegetarian for vegetarians. Prices vary depending on the plan, but are expensive. One month on
