Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


core for added convenience and variety, select for the most variety, diabetic for diabetics, and vegetarian for vegetarians. Prices vary depending on the plan, but are expensive. One month on the program can cost between $300 and $500, and may be more expensive. The program also includes access to an online community and phone counseling. 5-day weight loss kits are also available in retailers such as Wal-Mart® and Costco® for around $50.00. Weight Watchers® www ​.weightwatchers.com Weight Watchers uses a group support focus to promote weight loss through attendance at weekly meetings, where members support each other, discuss challenges and successes, and weigh-in. Weight loss is achieved by teaching dieters how to subscribe points to a variety of different foods and eat within a certain point budget each day. For around $10 per week, dieters can attend meetings and have access to online tools and a mobile app. There is also an online-only self-help version of the Weight Watchers® program which provides a diet plan and fitness information with exercises. Cost is currently around $20 per month, with an approximately $30 sign-up fee. However, the often run cost-saving promotions for those willing to sign-up for at least 3 months. LA Weight Loss Centers® www ​.laweightloss.com A 3-part plan that provides meal plans with recipes, snack bars, and dietary supplements. Other tools available include educational material, food diaries, and specialized plates and containers to aid in portion control. The silver plan cost between $150-$200 per month, and does not include supplements, while the gold plan costs between $200-$250 per month and offers supplements designed by the company called “nutritionals”. Support from counselors is available in-center and online. Ediets.com www ​.ediets.com Provides a personalized reducing diet and food list, fitness information, healthy recipes, social networking community, and charts and dieting tools. There are 3 categories of diet plan currently available: the “Vitabot plan”, the “Holly Madison Diet,” and the “Nutrihand plan.” Cost is currently $9.95 per month. Meal delivery options are also available for $30 - $40 per day through “The Chef’s Diet,” which uses a 40-30-30 ratio of carbohydrate, protein, and fat, respectively, and between 1300-1500 calories per day. This option includes 3 meals per day and 2 snacks Diets.com www ​.diets.com A nutrition and health website with tools to aid in weight loss, healthy living, and wellness. Basic membership is free and includes access to online support groups, articles, and
