Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


​.diets.com A nutrition and health website with tools to aid in weight loss, healthy living, and wellness. Basic membership is free and includes access to online support groups, articles, and useful tracking tools. However, premium membership, including all of the above in conjunction with a customized diet plan, personalized exercise plan and coping plan, personalized “expert” advice, and individualized weekly self-checklists to help keep dieters on track, is available for around $40 per month, with those willing to sign-up for 6 months getting the largest discount at just over $14 per month. 10.2.2 Candidates Overweight and moderately obese persons with few risk factors and few comorbidities are good candidates for these programs. Those who find that they need continued motivation, monitoring, and social support with a structured regimen may particularly benefit from one of these programs. 10.2.3 Appropriate Use These programs are not substitutes for physician concern for or medical monitoring of his or her patients’ weights. They are most successful when the patient’s personal physician continues to provide encouragement and supervision because most commercial weight loss programs provide no or very little physician supervision. The commercial programs are not equipped to deal with patients with multiple involved comorbidities of either a medical or psychological nature. Patients with complex medical issues are better treated by a program and therapists who are more closely connected to the health care system where medical charts and other patient-specific information is available. Registered dietitians and specialized weight control programs operated by medical facilities are more appropriate options in this population. 10.2.4 Advantages Most major established commercial chains offer well-crafted, nutritionally adequate, and behaviorally sound programs that, overall, are reasonable therapies. Classes are often held in places of employment or neighborhood centers that are conveniently located. Weight Watchers® offers frozen entrées and other weight control products that are integrated into the program and available in supermarkets, making adherence easier. Jenny Craig® and LA Weight Loss Centers® also offer frozen entrees and various weight control products; however, these are only available through their stores. On the Nutrisystem® program, the customer must eat only Nutrisystem® food for a defined period based on individual needs. Nutrisystem® sends all food items including snacks to the customer via mail. In a multicenter, randomized, two-year study of 423 subjects with a BMI of 27 to 40 kilogram/m2 it was shown that a structured commercial weight-loss program was more likely to be
