Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


a multicenter, randomized, two-year study of 423 subjects with a BMI of 27 to 40 kilogram/m2 it was shown that a structured commercial weight-loss program was more likely to be effective for managing moderately overweight patients than brief counseling and self-help (205). Individuals were randomly assigned to either a self-help program, consisting of two 20-minute sessions with a nutritionist and provision of printed materials and other self-help resources, or to attendance at meetings of a commercial program (Weight Watchers®). After 26 weeks subjects in the commercial weight-loss program had greater decreases in body weight, BMI, mean waist circumference, and fat mass (205). It is important to discuss commercial program options with individuals so they know their options, but only with individuals who are plausible candidates. Since it was founded in 1997, most of the large commercial programs have joined the Partnership for Healthy Weight Management, a voluntary association. Members provide, on a voluntary basis, publicly available information to help potential participants meet their needs. Criteria for membership require that programs disclose staff qualifications, essential components of the program, the risks associated with overweight and obesity, other details about the provider’s program or product, and program costs. 10.2.5 Disadvantages Because they are profit-driven business, the main objective of a commercial weight loss programs may not be driven by patient care. Although most programs require physician approval before participants can enroll, there is no guarantee of the quality of the health assessment that has been carried out prior to enrollment. For some individuals, especially those at very high risk, more intensive medical supervision may be required. The cost of the programs is another obstacle. Many of the poor who are obese do not have the resources to purchase these services and products, even though they might benefit from them. Discounts or waivers of fees for those in financial hardship are rarely available. Statistics are rarely kept on success rates or long-term adherence. Another problem is maintenance of lost weight and preventing relapse. The companies have become more active in developing programs catering to those who have lost weight to help them maintain their losses in recent years, but incentives to patients for staying in maintenance programs may still not be sufficient. Additionally, very few high-quality studies have assessed the efficacy of commercial weight loss programs and the ones that do provide the best-case scenario for results—as they do not account for participants
