Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


very few high-quality studies have assessed the efficacy of commercial weight loss programs and the ones that do provide the best-case scenario for results—as they do not account for participants who have dropped out of the program (206). The only program that has published high-quality studies to date is Weight Watchers®. The best study on Weight Watchers® determined that participants lost 5% of their initial body weight (about 10 pounds) in 6 months and kept off 3% (about five pounds) at two years (206). 10.2.6 Effectiveness and Safety The major firms provide programs and products that are safe for patients without major comorbidities when directions are followed. However, in spite of the fact that millions of Americans have purchased these services, their effectiveness in bringing about weight loss or sustaining lower weights has rarely been studied with scientific rigor (105). 10.3 Formulas and Meal Replacements In addition to commercial weight loss programs, many meal replacement and formula products for weight control are now available. Patients can purchase these products on their own in supermarkets, drug stores, and online. Unlike very low-calorie diet formulas, which are medical foods that are usually provided as part of a medically supervised treatment program (see Table 13 ), these products can be purchased by anyone. 10.3.1 Available Products Meal replacements now include not only powders like Slim-Fast® that are mixed with milk or other liquids, but drinks, bars, and frozen entrees. Formulations and nutrient content vary. Most liquid meal replacement products provide about 220 calories per serving and are relatively high in protein, vitamins and minerals, but low in fat (see Table 22 for examples of over-the-counter, ready-to-drink, liquid meal replacements). The health bars and frozen entrees vary in their caloric content, but are generally between 200 and 400 calories, and have more complete profile of nutrients. The entrees include offerings such as Lean Cuisine®, Healthy Choice®, and Smart Ones®, among others (see Table 23 for product listing). All of these pre-packaged entrees share characteristics such as discrete portion sizes that are relatively low in calories (usually 300 calories or less). Generally, all frozen entrees are high in sodium, with at least 500 mg of sodium per serving. Smart Ones® is manufactured by HJ Heinz, and is closely allied with the Weight Watchers® commercial diet program. Its packages are prepared to fit into the food plans for the Weight Watchers® program. All of the meal
