Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


than 5% of their body weight or who wish to use these products for one meal a day to assist in their weight maintenance efforts may find these products helpful. The products provide an easily prepared, generally nutritious, and relatively modest caloric load that can satisfy hunger. For those who are susceptible to environmental triggers (such as being involved in meal preparation or eating in cafeterias or fast food restaurants) and respond by overeating, these products offer a safe and palatable option that lessens temptation. 10.3.3 Appropriate Use Portion controlled liquid meal replacements such as Slim-Fast® or Shakeology (and many other products) are recommended for two meals and a snack with a small meal of conventional foods and low or no calorie beverages. They should not be used as the sole source of nourishment on a diet. The entrée choices are suitable for meals, but their use for multiple meals a day should be cautioned in patients for whom sodium consumption is a concern. 10.3.4 Advantages The main advantages of meal replacements are built-in portion and calorie control, widespread availability, convenience composition that is fairly micronutrient dense while remaining low in calories, ease of preparation, and for some of the dry or canned products, portability. Costs of the meal replacements are reasonable, and can simplify food choice decisions. They are lower in calories than many snack or restaurant foods that people who are eating away from home might otherwise consume. They are also convenient, rapidly and easily prepared, and can be eaten anywhere, allowing eaters to avoid “high risk” eating environments. 10.3.5 Disadvantages The major disadvantages of these products are their cost, monotony, and limited variety. From a nutritional standpoint, the products vary, but are often quite high in sodium (600 plus milligrams per serving). Only Healthy Choice® is low in calories, saturated fat, and also in sodium. As with most strategies, they are ineffective unless they are used as part of an overall low calorie eating plan. If they are used as sole sources of food they would be nutritionally inadequate not only in energy, but several other nutrients and water. Additionally, they might not provide a patient trying to lose weight with practice in planning and preparing their own healthy low-calorie meals for a lifetime of healthy weight management. However, there is little evidence on this part. 10.3.6 Effectiveness and Safety These products may be nutritionally inadequate when
