Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


own healthy low-calorie meals for a lifetime of healthy weight management. However, there is little evidence on this part. 10.3.6 Effectiveness and Safety These products may be nutritionally inadequate when they are used as the sole sources of food and fluids for many weeks. When the products are used according to directions on the label or in package inserts, they are safe (71) . When used as part of a weight loss program these single meal replacements are effective during the weight loss phase (198). They are also valuable additions in the weight maintenance phase, often because the meal replacements provide a low set number of calories in an easy-to-fix-entrée (5), with control over portion size (207). 10.4 Weight Loss Books and Manuals In addition to weight loss products, Table 24 provides some examples of popular diet books. Books are difficult to use on one’s own because there is little reinforcement. The quality of self-help books on weight control ranges from the sublime to the ridiculous. Among the better, older books currently on the market are the LEARN® Program for Weight Management, which is a sound 15 week course that is usually administered within a treatment program (208). The book is effective when it is part of the treatment program. However, the charges for such a program are considerable, the program is not available in all parts of the country, the effectiveness of self-directed efforts using the book by itself has not been evaluated, and the dietary advice is often vague. Another good book is Volumetrics by Barbara Rolls PhD (209), which encourages a diet based on foods that have a low energy density, meaning that they contain few calories per gram of weight. Dr. Rolls’ research has shown that foods with large volume but few calories can provide satiety while helping individuals avoid over-consumption of energy. Such foods are usually high in water and fiber, while low in fat. Although the long-term efficacy of this specific diet has yet to be affirmed, the diet is rich in fruits, vegetables, and other healthful foods (209). The bottom line on diet books is that with few exceptions, the dieter is sure to lose his or her money , but whether weight is lost or not is less certain. Moreover, in spite of the hype there is little evidence that, aside from the few books mentioned above, that the diets “work” and
