Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


trying to control their weights are listed in Table 25 . These fall into the category of informational resources. The reader needs to be aware that not all sites providing advice and information are sound. It is best to trust the sites sponsored by government, professional, and voluntary associations with some standing and expertise in the weight control field. A new entry into the weight loss arena in recent years is the web-based weight control program (210). These are examples of the second type of program. Resources include chat rooms, diet and exercise information, and often products that are for sale. For example, Nutrisystem®.com requires the purchase of prepackaged foods in order to access their web site. The ediets.com website, another weight control program, charges a monthly fee to use its site. It provides shopping lists from which consumers self-select foods, and also it provides general advice. These web-based commercial offerings vary in their quality, some are very good and others are quite poor. Table 25 Internet Resources for Weight Control (164-167) View in own window Type of Site and Name Internet address and Comments Advice and Information on nutrition and weight control American Dietetic Association www ​.eatright.org This is the website for nutrition professionals. Membership allows entrance to the Journal of the American Dietetic Association and the Evidenced Based Library. Shape Up! America www ​.shapeup.org Provides good yet minimal nutrition education information for patients. Helpful sample menus are provided for 1500 and 2000 calorie diets as well as practical ways to increase physical activity.Founded in 1994, Shape Up America! is a 501(c)3 not-for-profit organization committed to raising awareness of obesity as a health issue and to providing responsible information on healthy weight management. American Obesity Association www ​.obesity.org Comprehensive website dedicated to obesity. Provides helpful information for patients as well as links to other nutrition/fitness resources. This website also offers information on treatment, prevention, education, various aspects of public policy, and obesity research for professionals. National Institutes of Health www ​.nutrition.gov Extremely helpful resource for patients and health professionals alike. The website is home to the Dietary Guidelines, Mypyramid which is an interactive diet and physical activity planner, and an abundance of information regarding health and nutrition. Weight-Control Information Network (WIN) http://win ​.niddk.nih.gov/ A helpful information service of the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK), National Institutes of Health (NIH) for health professionals and the
