Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


Network (WIN) http://win ​.niddk.nih.gov/ A helpful information service of the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK), National Institutes of Health (NIH) for health professionals and the public. WIN was established in 1994 to provide the general public, health professionals, the media, and Congress with up-to-date, science-based information on obesity, weight control, physical activity, and related nutritional issues. Web-Based Help for Dieters Cyberdiet.com www ​.cyberdiet.com The program is $38.87 per 3 months or $77 annually via www.dietwatch.com. Resources on fitness, nutrition, motivation, wellness, recipes, and emotional health are included in each counseling plan. RDs provide the nutrition recommendations and accredited health professionals provide other health counseling/information. WebMD Nutrition Resources http://www ​.webmd.com/diet/default.htm This is an extremely useful resource for patients. The site provides a BMI calculator, calorie counter, diet evaluator, fitness and diet journal, a large food/nutrient database, a fiber calculator, helpful articles, videos, and slideshows on eating healthfully, and charts that can be personalized. Ediets.com www ​.ediets.com Provides a Pyramid based reducing diet and food list, fitness information, healthy recipes, social networking community, and charts and dieting tools. Cost is currently $17.95 for the first 4 weeks. Meal delivery options are also available for $19.95 per day. This option includes 3 meals per day and a snack or dessert in addition to a social networking community and nutrition and fitness guidance. Weight Watchers® Online www ​.weightwatchers.com Self-help version of Weight Watchers® program provides a diet plan and fitness information with exercises. Cost is currently $53.85 per month for 3 months and $17.95 for each month after. Very consumer friendly. Lifepractice.com www ​.lifepractice.com The Life Practice program deals with exercise, nutrition, sleep habits and stress management. A personal coach is assigned to each member. Frequent e-mails and daily tracking of the member's progress is standard. The cost is $3.50 per week. Fitday.com http://fitday ​.com/ This website is a free online journal that tracks and analyzes food intake, exercise, and weight loss goals. caloriescount.com www ​.caloriescount.com This site boasts several online calculators and tools that help the participant keep track of their weight loss, such as the exercise/calories burned calculator and online diet meal plans given the participants appropriate caloric range, which may also be determined from the site. These tools are free of charge. Access. SparkPeople® www.sparkpeople.comA comprehensive website with free nutrition, health, and fitness tools, support, and resources. This website boasts a large online social support network
