Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


These tools are free of charge. Access. SparkPeople® www.sparkpeople.comA comprehensive website with free nutrition, health, and fitness tools, support, and resources. This website boasts a large online social support network and may particularly help those with a preference towards online community networks. Diet.com www ​.diet.com A nutrition and health website with tools to aid in weight loss, healthy living, and wellness. Basic membership is free and includes access to online support groups, articles, and useful tracking tools. However, premium membership, including all of the above in conjunction with a customized diet plan, personalized exercise plan and coping plan, personalized expert advice, and individualized weekly self checklists to help keep you on track, requires a $19.95 initiation fee and depending on the plan may range from $9.95 to $19.95 per month. 10.6.2 Candidates Those who are overweight or moderately obese with few risk factors, and who need additional support and information after they have been screened by a physician on weight reduction, may find these resources useful. They are not freestanding and need to be administered in conjunction with some additional health and dietary counseling about a hypocaloric diet from a physician or registered dietitian. 10.6.3 Advantages The Internet is widely available at all times of the day or night, at low cost. For example, the US Army has developed a web-based dietary advice program that can be used at Army bases around the world. 10.6.4 Disadvantages High-risk patients, especially those who lack economic resources, may attempt to use these Internet sites for the primary treatment of their condition. Also, some sites provide inappropriate or wrong advice and there is little personal supervision or support of the dieter. Peer support networks and chat rooms can be beneficial to a patient trying to find support for weight loss, but there is also a risk that peers may provide incorrect advise or promote unsubstantiated weight loss techniques. 10.6.5 Safety and Effectiveness The safety and effectiveness of internet sites for weight reduction has not been established (105). Only recommended sites should be trusted. 10.7 Voluntary Self-Help Programs Self-help programs led by laypersons are voluntary programs that charge very low or no fees. National organizations include TOPS Club, Inc.® (Take Off Pounds Sensibly), OA (Overeaters Anonymous®), and others. These programs are designed primarily to provide group support to those who have weight problems, rather than to provide and supervise weight reduction diets. 10.8 Mobile Applications
