Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


Anonymous®), and others. These programs are designed primarily to provide group support to those who have weight problems, rather than to provide and supervise weight reduction diets. 10.8 Mobile Applications for Weight Loss As people’s lives become more mobile, so do the tools that help them lose weight. Calorie tracking programs are available to monitor daily intake, and fitness programs provide sample workouts and activity logs. Other apps are available to promote water consumption and provide tips and support. As with web-based resources, these should be used in conjunction with physician or dietician-led interventions, and not as a replacement for them. Though research on the efficacy of these programs is still scant, one recent study suggests that combining some form of counseling alongside a smart-phone based platform led to greater results than either counseling or smart-phone use alone (237). Examples of current available apps and the platforms on which they are available are summarized in Table 26 . Table 26 Mobile Apps to Aid in Weight Loss View in own window App Name Cost Available Platforms Features My Fitness Pal free Apple, Android, Windows, Blackberry, and online (http://www.myfitnesspal.com) Features include a calorie tracker, activity tracker, weight tracker, body measurement tracker, water tracker, extensive food list including restaurants, barcode scanner, breakdown of intake including protein, fat, carbohydrates, fiber, and vitamins and minerals, daily and weekly summaries, ability to add friends, and compatibility with fitbit, map my fitness, and other apps and devices. Lose It! Free (premium upgrade for $39.99/yr) Apple, Android, and online (https://www.loseit.com) Features include calorie tracker, activity tracker, weight tracker, barcode scanner, extensive food list with restaurant options, ability to add recipes, breakdown of intake by protein, fat, and carbohydrates, daily and weekly summaries by email, ability to add friends, compatibility with Nike+ fuelband. Premium features include additional compatibility with apps and devices, hydration and sleep trackers, body measurement tracker, and blood glucose and blood pressure trackers. Mapmyfitness free (premium upgrade for $29.99/yr for apple and online) Apple, Android, Blackberry (limited), and online (http://www.mapmyfitness.com) Features include allowing users to track a variety of activities in real time and after the fact, search for and save routes for walking, jogging, biking, and hiking, a food tracker, the ability to play music from music library on phone, add friends and share workouts. “Mapmyrun” and “Mapmyride” are related apps for running and biking respectively. Premium features include training plans, training features, and
