Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


music from music library on phone, add friends and share workouts. “Mapmyrun” and “Mapmyride” are related apps for running and biking respectively. Premium features include training plans, training features, and live location tracking. Hy free Apple Features include allowing users to set water goals in ml or fl oz, add water consumed in increments of 50 or 100 ml (2 or 4 fl oz), the ability to set reminders to consume water, and facts about the importance of water consumption displayed daily. EaTipster free Apple Features include daily tips on healthy eating from dietitians, ability to save and share tips, and the ability to set reminder for tips 11. Summary of Weight Loss Phase Current guidelines for the composition of weight reducing diets, as discussed above, are outlined in the 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans (Table 1), as well as the MyPlate.gov website. 12. Weight Maintenance Phase of Weight Control Once obese individuals have lost weight, their healthier weight and current fat mass must be maintained. This is the weight maintenance phase of weight control. It involves alterations in dietary intake and physical activity from levels that are different to those at the onset of dietary treatment. Energy needs are lower to stay in energy balance than they were prior to weight reduction, even though weight was lost. This is because both fat and lean body mass is lost during the weight reduction phase. With a loss of lean body mass comes a decrease in metabolically active tissue, which then reduces resting metabolism. In addition, it takes less effort for an individual to move with a now lighter body, so the energy cost of physical activity is reduced. The implications are that a slight decrease in energy intake from prior levels and an increase in energy output is necessary during weight maintenance. There is a need for continued attention to these factors by both the physician and patient. Behavior modification is necessary to sustain lifestyle changes developed during the weight reduction phase. It is best initiated during the weight loss phase, and maintained thereafter. All too often the weight maintenance phase is neglected or ignored, and weight is regained over the long term (71). Some factors that seem to be associated with long-term successful weight maintenance include continued regular exercise and to a lesser extent, use of low calorie, low fat diets relatively high in fruits and vegetables. Also, continued
