Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


associated with long-term successful weight maintenance include continued regular exercise and to a lesser extent, use of low calorie, low fat diets relatively high in fruits and vegetables. Also, continued self-monitoring of the amount and type of food consumed and of physical activity levels may help (71). 12.1 Nutrient Needs Although energy needs are less during weight maintenance, the requirements for protein, essential fatty acids, carbohydrate, dietary fiber, vitamins and minerals are similar to those of any normal adult. The 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommend that all Americans, including those who are watching their weight, to adopt the habits listed (see Table 1). There is currently much debate about the ideal macronutrient distribution in diets for weight maintenance, but at present very few long-term studies are available on the effects of macronutrient content on weight maintenance. A low-fat, reduced-energy is the best studied diet and the most prescribed for weight maintenance (AND). 12.1.2 Carbohydrate A recent study of the self-selected diets of free-living American adults found that diets high in carbohydrates (above 55% of calories) were lower in total energy and were associated with lower BMI’s than those consuming fewer carbohydrates. The nutrient density (amount of the nutrient per calorie consumed) of those with higher carbohydrate intakes was also higher for vitamins A, Vitamin C, carotene, folate, calcium, magnesium, and iron, but lower in vitamin B-12 and zinc than those with a lower intake of carbohydrates. Also, the high carbohydrate group ate more low-fat foods, grain products and fruits in addition to lower sodium intakes (214). Although individuals who choose to go on a very-low-carbohydrate diet may see increased weight loss within the first six months, these results are not sustained at 12 months (241). It is thought that this diet is not sustainable for long-term weight maintenance and instead, the diet should be a slight reduction in energy all together as well as an increased focus on the reduction of fat (241). 12.1.3 Energy Density Other studies suggest that energy density of the diet rather that the macronutrient composition of the diet affects energy intake the most (215;216). One review found that low fat, high fiber diets were the most effective in promising weight loss, and that their effects appeared to be associated with energy density (217). Whether this is true in weight maintenance remains to be determined. There may be macronutrient effects on hunger and satiety that
