Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


effects appeared to be associated with energy density (217). Whether this is true in weight maintenance remains to be determined. There may be macronutrient effects on hunger and satiety that operate through endocrine and metabolic mechanisms such as leptin, insulin, grhelin, adiponectin and other hormones, which are only now being discovered. These hormones regulate food intake and may be altered. Additionally, the macronutrient composition of habitual diets also affects health risks. Finally, psychological and behavioral factors may make different macronutrient combinations more acceptable to some people. Currently, these topics are the subject of much debate, but research is needed to clarify what and which nutrient composition is optimal. What is currently recommended by the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics with a strong rating is that an individualized reduced calorie diet is imperative for weight maintenance. By reducing fat, an individual is able to cut out more calories but it is suggested that both fat and carbohydrate be decreased (241). Other forms of low energy dense diets would be the use of meal replacements or very-low-energy diets. Using meal replacements can be helpful for those who have trouble planning and preparing meals. They can also be helpful for those who experience a large amount of anxiety during meal times. An individual is able to replace one or two meals or snacks with these meal replacements with known nutrient content to help them stay at a calorie deficit of 500 – 1000 cal/day (241). This is something that could be used periodically to help patients get back on track after a relapse of poor food choices and is something that can be maintained long-term. Very-low-energy diets use meal replacement bars or shakes as the sole source of energy during the weight loss phase, however, this is not suitable for weight maintenance and instead used for quick weight loss and requires additional medical monitoring (241). 12.1.3 Fat Although much remains to be discovered about the optimal dietary pattern for weight maintenance, a strong case can be made for keeping dietary fat levels below 30% of calories. In studies in which dietary fat was reduced from 35 to 25% of calories with no other recommendations, energy intake was reduced and weight was lost (218). It was estimated that reducing fat by 10% to within the range of 20 to 30% of calories would result in a loss of about 16 grams of body fat
