Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


It was estimated that reducing fat by 10% to within the range of 20 to 30% of calories would result in a loss of about 16 grams of body fat a day as a result of reduced energy intake. However, moderation in caloric intake is also necessary. Studies of free-living humans ranging from dietary changes produced only modest body weight losses of about one to three kilograms (182;219;220). Low fat diets consumed on an ad-libitum basis tend to be high in carbohydrate, but LDL cholesterol decreases, plasma triglycerides tend to normalize, and so do HDL/total cholesterol ratios (221). Finally, weight control may be easier (222). 12.1.4 Dietary Fiber Although the influence of dietary fiber on energy regulation is still not clear, there is evidence that increased dietary fiber intake of about 15 grams appears to be associated with decreased energy intake and body weight of about two kilograms over several months. These effects may even be greater in overweight persons (181). However, these effects are not yet confirmed. Since dietary fiber intake is currently low, only about 15 grams per day in most Americans, and recommendations are for nearly twice that much, increased fiber levels seem to be appropriate, regardless. 12.1.5 Vitamins and Minerals It is important to meet the current dietary recommendations of 3 – 4 servings of low-fat or non-fat dairy in order to get the daily suggested values of calcium and vitamin D. Research suggests that those with lower calcium intake have increased body weight (241). However, the mechanism by which this works is still unclear. 12.1.6 Lessons from Long Term Maintainers: Importance of Increased Physical Activity Long-term follow-up of health outcomes demonstrates the need for permanent changes in weight toward healthier levels. The relative lack of effects of temporary downward fluctuations underscores the need for long-term weight maintenance. Data collected from individuals successful at weight loss and maintenance have enhanced our understanding of the most effective strategies in the long-term maintenance of healthier weights and prevention of relapse. Attention to moderation in dietary intake and the maintenance of high levels of physical activity is vital (223-226). Behavioral and attitude adjustments are also important. Encouraging data suggest that behaviors associated with maintenance of weight loss require less effort and become more pleasurable over time (29). In a recent telephone survey, 48% of individuals who had ever lost more than 10% of their body weight had maintained this
