Dietary Treatment of Obesity
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, patients, diet, activity, diets, physical, dietary, health, physical activity, fat, day, body, intake


effort and become more pleasurable over time (29). In a recent telephone survey, 48% of individuals who had ever lost more than 10% of their body weight had maintained this loss for at least one year, and 26% had maintained for at least 5 years (227). Although these data are self-reported, they suggest progress in the avoidance of relapse and weight gain. 13. Adopt a Long-Term Eating Pattern to Maintain Weight: Adequate Nutrients within Calorie Needs Most individuals appear to be aware of and use recommended measures, such as increased physical activity, decreased fat intake, decreased food portions, and decreased energy intakes. The problem is that they do so, but not for enough of the time. However, it is also true that dieting efforts often fail, and weight is often rapidly regained, probably negating predicted health benefits. Chronic dieters tend to be food-preoccupied, distractible, emotional, binge-prone, and unhappy, particularly when the diets are very restrictive (228). It is thus important to foster a healthy, balanced, stable relationship with food and diet. Health professionals can play a vital role in helping patients develop such a relationship. 14. Conclusions: Is Dieting Worth It? About 39% of women and 21% of men in Western countries have ever tried to lose weight, and approximately 24% of women and 8% of men report that they currently are on a “diet”. In contrast, about 25% of men and 30% of women report that they are watching what they eat to avoid weight gain or to maintain their weights at current levels (229). Hypocaloric diets to induce loss of body fat therefore appear to be a common component of the weight control efforts of many people. These realities and disadvantages have rightly led to questions about whether dieting is “worth it”, and whether the treatment is worse than the disease. Certainly they suggest that quality of life measures should be included in studies of reducing diets. This chapter has stressed the role of the dietary treatment of obesity as a part of a comprehensive program of weight control that includes increased physical activity, lifestyle modification, appropriate intakes of nutrients to minimize chronic disease risk, and eating patterns that maximize quality of life. Such dietary treatment in those with mild to moderate obesity helps to decrease risk factors relative to baseline weights after five years. Therefore some health benefit, although it is limited, may be present. However, the
