Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


carbohydrates, and alcohol in the diet ( 5 ). Further, all death rates were negatively related to the ratio of MUFA to SFA. Keys was the first to associate the traditional Mediterranean diet (olive oil as the main fat, high in cereal products, legumes, fruit and vegetables, moderate in fish and low in dairy and meat products, moderate wine consumption) with a low risk of CHD. Together with his colleagues, Keys played a vital role in the modern definition and promotion of the Mediterranean diet. Walter Willett from the Harvard University further refined the definition of modern Mediterranean diet and its beneficial effects on CHD risk ( 13-16 ). Others, in a large prospective cohort study, have confirmed an inverse association between adherence to the Mediterranean diet and the incidence of fatal and non-fatal CHD in initially healthy middle-aged individuals in the Mediterranean region ( 17 ). A recent large randomized intervention trail (the PREDIMED Study) among individuals at high cardiovascular risk showed that a Mediterranean diet supplemented with extra-virgin olive oil or nuts reduced the incidence of major cardiovascular events ( 18 ). Current Dietary Recommendations Over the years, numerous epidemiological observational and interventional nutritional studies have been conducted, and many meta-analyses and comprehensive reviews have evaluated the overall effects of dietary fats and interventions to reduce saturated fat intake on blood lipid profile as well as risk for CHD. On the basis of these study findings dietary guidelines have universally recommended reducing the intake of saturated fat to lower low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels and reduce CHD risk. These recommendations have been central to promote public awareness on healthy eating to improve overall cardiovascular health at a population as well as at an individual level. However, over the years, there have been shift in recommendations with regard to what macronutrients should be used to replace energy lost from lowering of saturated fat. Early Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommended to decrease total and saturated fat intake and to increase accordingly dietary carbohydrates intake, leading to a low or lower fat diet. The current dietary recommendations, however, are to reduce saturated fat intake and increase intakes of dietary MUFA and PUFA, resulting in a moderate fat diet. Other notable shifts include an emphasis on added sugar intake and/or a lessened concern about dietary cholesterol intake. For adults who would benefit from lowering of LDL-C, the recent 2013 American Heart Association
