Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


include an emphasis on added sugar intake and/or a lessened concern about dietary cholesterol intake. For adults who would benefit from lowering of LDL-C, the recent 2013 American Heart Association (AHA)/American College of Cardiology Guideline on Lifestyle Management to Reduce Cardiovascular Risk ( 19 ) recommends reducing saturated fat intake to 5 to 6% of total calories and reducing the percentage of calories from trans fats; and for healthy Americans (>2 years of age), the 2006 AHA Nutrition Committee Scientific Statement advises eating 25 to 35% of daily calories as fats from foods like fish, nuts, and vegetable oils, limiting the amount of saturated fats to 7% of daily calories, limiting the amount of trans fats to <1% of total daily calories and cholesterol intake <300 mg/day ( 20 ). Trans fatty acids are unsaturated fatty acids; however, they are structurally different from the principal unsaturated fatty acids in plant foods and are predominantly formed during food processing (i.e., hydrogenation). Substantial evidence support an association between a high intake of trans fatty acids and elevated CHD risk ( 21 ), mainly mediated through its deleterious effects on blood lipid profile ( 22 ). For more information on trans fatty acids and CHD risk, see section “Effects of saturated fat and its replacements on CHD risk”. The National Lipid Association Expert Panel on Familial Hypercholesterolemia (FH) ( 23 ) recommends that people with FH restrict intakes of total fat to 25-35% of energy intake, saturated fats should make up <7% of energy intake, and cholesterol intake should be <200 mg/day. The Expert Panel further recommends incorporations of plant stanols or sterol esters and soluble fiber to diets to help to reduce absorption of dietary fat and cholesterol. Consumption of plant stanols and/or sterols at 2 g/day dose reduced LDL-C by ≈10%, and when combined with diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol, the effects were additive (reduced LDL-C even further by ≈20%) ( 24 ). The efficacy of plant sterols and stanols as cholesterol lowering agent has been shown to be related to subjects’ characteristics, food carrier, frequency, and time of intake ( 25 ). Dietary fiber has also been associated with a favorable lipid profile( 26 ) and reduced risk for both cardiovascular disease (CVD) and CHD ( 27 ). For more information on plant stanols and sterols and fiber, please see the “Functional Foods” section. The latest 2015 to
