Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


for both cardiovascular disease (CVD) and CHD ( 27 ). For more information on plant stanols and sterols and fiber, please see the “Functional Foods” section. The latest 2015 to 2020 edition of Dietary Guidelines for Americans emphasizes healthy eating patterns and no longer recommends limiting consumption of dietary cholesterol ( 28 ) as in previous editions. This shift, however, does not advocate for a lesser importance of dietary cholesterol in building healthy eating patterns and individuals should consume as little dietary cholesterol as possible. Another noteworthy update is on sugar consumption with a specific limit of <10% of daily calories from added sugars. The key recommendation to limiting saturated fat intake <10% of daily calories remains consistent with those in its previous editions. The 2013 American Diabetes Association (ADA) Nutrition Therapy Recommendations for the Management of Adults with Diabetes ( 29 ) are in agreement with those for the general population, and the ADA commends the latest edition of Dietary Guidelines for Americans. The 2017 American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists and American College of Endocrinology Guidelines for Management of Dyslipidemia and Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease ( 30 , 31 ) note that the intake of saturated fats, trans fats and cholesterol should be limited, and consistent with other guidelines, it also recommends to incorporate soluble fiber (10-25 g/day) and plant stanols/sterols (~2 g/day) to diet. The same recommendations with regard to plant sterols/stanols and soluble fiber have been noted in the National Cholesterol Education Program on the Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Cholesterol in Adults [Adult Treatment Panel (ATP) III] ( 32 ), with specific recommendations for saturated fat intake (<7% of daily calories) and cholesterol (<200 mg/day). Questions, however, remain about specific quantitative recommendations on dietary intakes of MUFA and PUFA, including omega-6 ( n-6 ) and omega-3 ( n-3 ) fatty acids. The ATP III recommends up to 10% of energy intake as PUFA and up to 20% of energy intake as MUFA, thereby comprising a majority of the recommended 25-35% of total intake ( 32 ). The 2014 position paper from the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics (formerly the American Dietetic Association) set the desirable intakes for n-6 PUFA at 5-10% energy and for n-3 PUFA (α linolenic acid) at 0.6-2% energy, with at least 500 mg EPA+DHA/day ( 33 , 34 ). The latter also stated that consumption of MUFA at 15-20% energy,
