Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


excluding stearic acid, have been associated with increases in TC, LDL-C, and HDL-C levels, where myristic acid exhibited the most potent cholesterol-raising effect ( 37-39 ). A meta-analysis of 60 controlled trials by Mensink et al. reported an increase in LDL-C and HDL-C concentrations by isocaloric replacement of carbohydrates with all types of SFA, excluding stearic acid ( 38 ). Myristic and palmitic acids increased LDL-C and HDL-C levels to a similar extent without significantly altering the TC/HDL-C ratio, whereas lauric acid had the largest LDL-C- and HDL-C-raising effect leading to a decrease in TC/HDL-C ratio ( 38 ). A 2016 meta-regression analysis by Mensink et al., with a goal of informing the development of updated WHO recommendations on SFA intake, determined the effects on blood lipids of replacing carbohydrates with commonly consumed individual SFA ( 40 ). Compared with carbohydrates, an increased intake of lauric, myristic, or palmitic acid raised TC, LDL-C and HDL-C levels, and lowered TG levels, while increased intake of stearic acid did not alter these values. Lauric acid alone reduced the TC/HDL-C and LDL-C/HDL-C ratios compared with carbohydrates ( 40 ). These findings are in line with those reported in an earlier review summarizing evidence from RCTs and prospective cohort studies. Taking the carbohydrate consumption as the reference, lauric, myristic and palmitic acids increased TC and LDL-C concentrations, whereas stearic acid did not ( 37 ). Both LDL-C- and HDL-C-raising effects of SFA were dependent on chain-length as these effects decreased as chain-lengths increased. In line with previous observations, the TC/HDL-C ratio was not significantly affected by myristic or palmitic acid consumption, but was significantly decreased by lauric acid consumption ( 37 ). Karupaiah et al., found that postprandial HDL-C response differed between subjects consuming test meals similar in fat content (~31%) but with a varying content of SFA ( 41 ). Compared to a stearic acid-rich meal, a lauric and myristic acid-rich or a palmitic acid-rich meal significantly increased the HDL-C concentration and the HDL-C area under the curve was elevated by 14% and 8%, respectively. Overall, these reports indicate heterogeneity across individual SFA with regard to potency to alter blood lipids. The consistent lack of association between stearic acid and cholesterol concentration has been linked to a slower and/or less efficient absorption as well as desaturation of stearic acid to oleic acid ( 42 ). Stearic acid content of beef and pork/lamb fat
