Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


been linked to a slower and/or less efficient absorption as well as desaturation of stearic acid to oleic acid ( 42 ). Stearic acid content of beef and pork/lamb fat is ~20% and ~10-15%, respectively. It is worth noting that there are other factors with a potential to modulate the effects of SFA on blood lipids/lipoproteins and related health outcomes. These factors may include sex, lifestyle factors such as overall dietary composition and physical activity, clinical conditions such as obesity, insulin resistance and hypertriglyceridemia, as well as genetic factors such as those associated with metabolic syndrome and obesity. The 2017 AHA Presidential Advisory on Dietary Fats and CVD concluded that differences in the effects of the individual SFA are small and should not affect current dietary recommendations to lower saturated fat intake ( 43 ). Effects of Dietary Cholesterol on Plasma Lipids and Lipoproteins Some dietary guidelines recommend to limit dietary cholesterol intake <200 mg/day or <300 mg/day. Five decades ago, AHA included an initial recommendation to restrict dietary cholesterol to <300 mg/day to its dietary guideline intended for people who are at high risk for heart disease (American Heart Association 1968 Diet and heart Disease Risk. Dallas: American Heart Association). Specifically, egg consumption was limited to three whole eggs per week. This recommendation was based on several lines of available scientific evidence at that time. Early animal experiments conducted in rabbits fed with milk and egg yolks ( 44 ) or pure cholesterol ( 45-47 ) showed a hypercholesterolemia and severe atherosclerosis. Subsequent nonhuman primate experiments noted that feeding egg yolks to rhesus monkeys elevated the plasma cholesterol level, which led to development of atherosclerotic lesions similar to that of human atherosclerotic plaque after months of feeding ( 48 ). Reversibility of atherosclerosis was investigated in egg-yolk-induced hypercholesterolemic rhesus monkeys ( 48 ). Feeding monkeys with cholesterol-free diets resulted in regression of atherosclerosis as demonstrated by significant reductions in occlusions of coronary arteries and in cholesterol content of atherosclerotic plaques. Epidemiological observations have reported an association between dietary cholesterol intake and CHD risk ( 49-53 ) and feeding with a high-cholesterol diet increased serum cholesterol concentrations ( 54-56 ). Subsequent metabolic experiments in human subjects have documented an effect of dietary cholesterol on plasma TC and LDL-C levels ( 57-60 ). Research over the last a few decades, however, has produced significant amount of data supporting a minimal or
