Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


of dietary cholesterol on plasma TC and LDL-C levels ( 57-60 ). Research over the last a few decades, however, has produced significant amount of data supporting a minimal or no effect of dietary cholesterol on blood cholesterol level or CHD risk. The 2013 AHA/ACC Guideline on Lifestyle Management to Reduce Cardiovascular Risk concluded that there is insufficient evidence to determine whether lowering dietary cholesterol reduces LDL-C levels ( 19 ). The recent 2015 to 2020 edition of Dietary Guidelines for Americans contains no recommendation for dietary cholesterol intake ( 28 ). In addition to an early study by Keys et al. ( 61 ), other feeding experiments of human subjects have reported no association between dietary and serum cholesterol concentrations ( 62 ). Analyses of epidemiological data have failed to find a significant impact on CHD risk by dietary cholesterol within populations ( 63-67 ). As reviewed by Ravnskov ( 68 ), in 11 reports from the prospective and retrospective epidemiological studies, dietary cholesterol was not different between cases and controls. Notably, in many studies HDL-C level was increased, therefore, LDL-C/HDL-C ratio was not altered ( 59 , 69-71 ). Data also indicate that cholesterol feeding does not alter number of LDL particles – instead it increases cholesterol content of these particles leading to formation of large buoyant LDL ( 72 ). Other nutritional components of a food, such as fats, can modulate the effects of dietary cholesterol on plasma levels. Particularly, SFA is a major factor and acts synergistically with dietary cholesterol to induce hypercholesterolemia ( 73 ). Addressing this topic, Keys et al. ( 74 ) developed an equation to predict changes in plasma cholesterol concentration, taking into account dietary cholesterol and saturated and unsaturated fats, while others have used a cholesterol/saturated fat index ( 75 ). Using the Keys equation, a meta-analysis of three RCTs determined that 15-20% of the total reduction in serum cholesterol was accounted for by decreased dietary cholesterol intake ( 43 ). Dietary cholesterol, however, was not associated with CHD risk among >80,000 nurses ( 65 ) and 43,000 male health care professionals ( 66 ) after taking energy, PUFA, trans fats and SFA into account. Similarly, significant associations between dietary cholesterol and CHD risk were abolished after covariates, including SFA, were taken into account ( 51 , 76 ). A 2013 meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies found no evidence of an
