Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


and CHD risk were abolished after covariates, including SFA, were taken into account ( 51 , 76 ). A 2013 meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies found no evidence of an association between egg consumption and risk of CHD or stroke ( 77 ). A similar 2016 meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies concluded that up to one egg daily may even contribute to a decreased risk of total stroke and that daily egg intake was not associated with CHD risk ( 78 ). It should be noted that although overall effects of dietary cholesterol on serum cholesterol within/across populations maybe weak, the effects can be substantial for certain individuals. Thus, a considerable interindividual variation in response to a diet high in cholesterol has been observed. It is postulated that approximately 15-25% of the population respond to dietary cholesterol in a significant manner (i.e., sensitive or hyper-responders), while the majority respond minimally (i.e., non-sensitive or hypo-responders) ( 79 ). As reviewed by McNamara et al. ( 80 ), an intake of 100 mg/day dietary cholesterol leads to a 3-fold difference in LDL-C concentration between hyper- and hypo-responders [an increase of 2.84 mg/dL (0.07mmol/L) vs. 0.76 mg/dL (0.02 mmol/L), respectively]. However, HDL-C appears to be less affected by this phenomenon ( 80 ). In addition, an individual’s body weight and insulin resistance status may influence the effects of dietary cholesterol on plasma lipids and lipoproteins ( 81 ). An increase in non-HDL-C concentration was observed in lean and insulin sensitive individuals but not in lean and insulin resistant or obese and insulin resistant individuals after a 4-wk intervention with four eggs per day ( 82 ). Overall, individual dietary recommendation with consideration of differences in response to dietary cholesterol intake as well as genetic variability influencing cholesterol metabolism is important to achieving prevention and treatment goals for hypercholesterolemia and to reducing CHD risk. Effects of Saturated Versus Monounsaturated and Polyunsaturated Fatty Acids and Carbohydrates on Plasma Lipids and Lipoproteins The strategy of reducing dietary saturated fat intake raises a critical question about what kinds of nutrients should be used to replace saturated fat, and several major macronutrients, such as carbohydrates and cis -unsaturated fatty acids, including PUFA and MUFA, have been tested in many investigations. It is now increasingly appreciated that the effects on lipid profile and CVD risk of replacing SFA is highly dependent on whether it is being replaced with PUFA,
