Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


many investigations. It is now increasingly appreciated that the effects on lipid profile and CVD risk of replacing SFA is highly dependent on whether it is being replaced with PUFA, MUFA, or carbohydrates (complex whole grain-rich vs. simple sugar-rich). REPLACEMENT OF DIETARY SATURATED FAT WITH POLYUNSATURATED FATTY ACIDS Replacement of energy from saturated fat with PUFA has been shown to decrease TC and LDL-C, with a concomitant decrease in HDL-C ( 83 ). Meta-analyses of short-term controlled dietary trials have shown a favorable influence of PUFA on the ratio of atherogenic vs. atheroprotective lipoproteins. The HDL-C/LDL-C ratio was increased due to a larger decrease in LDL-C than HDL-C ( 84 ), and the TC/HDL-C ratio was decreased ( 38 ). Interestingly, it has been noted that the availability and/or content of PUFA may modulate the effects of saturated fat on plasma lipids and lipoproteins, such that saturated fat may only increase LDL-C if the PUFA intake, specifically linoleic acid, falls below a threshold level of approximately 5% of energy ( 85 , 86 ). Thus, TC, LDL-C and apoB levels were not different between women who consumed diets high and low in saturated fat, but with similar ratios of polyunsaturated to saturated fat ( 87 ). Among Japanese subjects, the ratio of polyunsaturated to saturated fat was inversely associated with TC and LDL-C, but not with HDL-C, TG, and hemoglobin A1c (HbA 1c ) ( 88 ). A reduced LDL-C synthesis rate ( 89 , 90 ) and/or increased clearance rate ( 91 ) may underlie observed reductions in LDL-C when PUFA is substituted for saturated fat. In addition, in nonhuman primates, replacement of dietary saturated fat with PUFA ( 92 ) but not with MUFA ( 93 ) was shown to reduce coronary artery atherosclerosis. It was projected that the replacement of saturated fat with PUFA, through its favorable effects on TC, LDL-C, and TC/HDL-C ratio, can provide about 10% decrease in coronary risk for each 5% energy substitution ( 37 , 94 ). However, it could be postulated that the actual effects on overall CHD risk may be greater, considering that PUFA reduces inflammation and improves insulin resistance ( 95 ). Furthermore, the amount of cholesterol consumed in the diet modulates the effects of saturated fat, as the increase in LDL-C at lower intakes of cholesterol was minimal compared to the substantial increase of LDL-C at higher intakes
