Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


the diet modulates the effects of saturated fat, as the increase in LDL-C at lower intakes of cholesterol was minimal compared to the substantial increase of LDL-C at higher intakes of cholesterol ( 73 ). The 2017 AHA Presidential Advisory on Dietary Fats and CVD identified four “core” trials, which met their evaluation criteria for design, execution, and adherence, for the beneficial effects of replacing SFA with PUFA ( 43 ). The 1 st trial, the Wadsworth Hospital and VA Center in Los Angeles, reported a 13% reduction in serum cholesterol of replacing SFA with PUFA ( 96 ). The average duration was 8 years, and the participants were men with a mean age of 65 years. In the 2 nd trial, the Oslo Diet-Heart Study, a PUFA-rich diet was associated with a 14% reduction in serum cholesterol among men and the effects were sustained throughout the 5-year trial ( 97 ). The 3 rd trial, the British Medical Research Council, showed a 16% reduction in serum cholesterol in men after MI by replacing animal fat with soybean oil ( 98 ). In the 4 th trial, the Finnish Mental Hospital Study, serum cholesterol was 14% lower on the high PUFA diet than on the high SFA diet in men and women ( 99 ) ( 100 ). The advisory group further performed a mixed-effects meta-analysis of these four core trials, all of which were conducted in the 1960s, and estimated a 29% reduction in CHD by lowering SFA and replacing it with vegetable oil (primarily soybean oil) rich in PUFA ( 43 ). A 2016 systematic review and meta-regression analysis of data in 84 RCTs showed that replacement of 1% total daily calories from SFA with PUFA, MUFA or carbohydrates lowers LDL-C by 2.1 mg/dL, 1.6 mg/dL, and 1.3 mg/dL, respectively ( 40 ). REPLACEMENT OF SATURATED FAT WITH MONOUNSATURATED FATTY ACIDS In a meta-analysis of short-term controlled dietary trials, replacement of saturated fat with MUFA was associated with decreases in TC and LDL-C ( 84 ). Although these effects may be of a lesser magnitude than those associated with PUFA, they were of a similar magnitude to those associated with carbohydrates ( 84 , 101 , 102 ). Comparing the effects of replacement of 7% energy from saturated fat in the average American diet (AAD, 36% energy from fat) with either MUFA or carbohydrates (primarily complex), Berglund at
