Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


Comparing the effects of replacement of 7% energy from saturated fat in the average American diet (AAD, 36% energy from fat) with either MUFA or carbohydrates (primarily complex), Berglund at el., showed that both diets were able to reduce TC, LDL-C, HDL-C, ApoB, and ApoA-1 concentrations ( 103 ). In this 7-wk randomized, double-blind, cross-over study among subjects with metabolic risk factors, both regimens reduced LDL-C equivalent to 6 to 7%, consistent with previous observations ( 104 , 105 ). Triglycerides were significantly elevated with the carbohydrate diet, but tended to be lower with the MUFA diet. Reductions in HDL-C or ApoA-1 were of a lesser magnitude with the MUFA diet vs. the carbohydrate diet. In addition, plasma lipoprotein(a), Lp(a), concentrations were elevated with both diets, with a slightly larger increase observed for the carbohydrate diet ( 103 ). Studying exclusively the effects of dietary interventions on Lp(a) concentration, a recent randomized feeding study reported that diets rich in unsaturated fat (MUFA 21% and PUFA 10% of energy) increased Lp(a) levels less than diets rich in carbohydrate or protein, with greater changes in African-Americans than Caucasians ( 106 ). Overall, these findings suggest that replacement of saturated fat with MUFA is a preferable regimen when compared to strategies using carbohydrate (or protein) as a replacement. Substitution of MUFA for PUFA increased TG levels ( 107-109 ). In line with these findings, a meta-analysis reported a modest but consistent lower TG level on the diets high in PUFA vs. high in MUFA ( 110 ). The latter meta-analysis compared the effects of MUFA or PUFA consumed in oil forms on serum lipid levels focusing on studies with at least two intervention diets, differing in MUFA and PUFA content, but otherwise similar in total and saturated fat, fiber, and dietary cholesterol. There were no significant differences in TC, LDL-C, or HDL-C. Replacement of saturated fat with either MUFA or PUFA led to significant decreases in TC and LDL-C, and the pooled effect sizes were comparable for either type of unsaturated fatty acids [≈0.65 mmol/L (25 mg/dL) relative to the saturated fat diet] ( 110 ). Neither type of unsaturated fat significantly changed HDL-C or TG levels relative to the high-saturated fat diets. It was noted that any dietary recommendations for the use of PUFA or MUFA in preference to the other should be based on outcomes other than cholesterol concentrations. A recent
