Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


It was noted that any dietary recommendations for the use of PUFA or MUFA in preference to the other should be based on outcomes other than cholesterol concentrations. A recent meta-analysis of long-term, randomized, controlled dietary intervention trials comparing dietary regimens with high (>12%) vs. low (≤12%) amount of MUFA reported no significant differences in changes of TC, LDL-C, HDL-C, and TG ( 111 ). REPLACEMENT OF SATURATED FAT WITH CARBOHYDRATES The findings related to replacement of energy from saturated fat with carbohydrates have been much more complex. Carbohydrate foods differ substantially in their quantitative and qualitative features with regard to micronutrients, phytochemicals, fibers, and other bioactive substances, which could in turn have differential effects on plasma lipids and CHD risk. Substitution of SFA with carbohydrates was associated with lower TC, LDL-C, and HDL-C, and higher TG ( 112 ). However, the TC/HDL-C ratio was not altered due to a similar magnitude of changes in TC and HDL-C concentrations ( 38 ). On the contrary, a large-scale randomized clinical trial (RCT) (the Women’s Health Initiative Dietary Modification Trial) did not find evidence of beneficial (or adverse) effects on plasma lipids by exchanging 7-8% saturated fat with complex carbohydrates ( 113 ). In this study, 48,835 postmenopausal women (50–79 years of age) were randomized to either a low-fat (20% of calories) intervention or to a comparison group, and a subset with blood lipids (n=2,730) was assessed for the effects of dietary carbohydrate changes on lipid and lipoprotein composition. SFA intake was lower in the intervention group vs. the control group (9.5 and 12.4%, respectively) and dietary carbohydrate levels were higher (53.9 and 45.9%, respectively). No differences were observed between groups in the incidence of fatal and nonfatal CHD and total CVD after 8.1 years, indicating no beneficial effect of a reduced fat diet (28.8 vs. 37.0% of calories as fat). Among healthy subjects, replacement of saturated fat with carbohydrates resulted in reductions of TC and LDL-C across sex and ethnicity ( 114 ). In a randomized cross-over trial among subjects with a high prevalence of metabolic abnormalities, both regimens, replacing 7% of energy from saturated fat with carbohydrate (primarily complex) or MUFA, resulted in significant decreases in TC, LDL-C, and HDL-C ( 103 ). Triglyceride concentrations tended to be lower with the MUFA diet, but were significantly higher with the high carbohydrate diet. Overall, replacement with MUFA was associated with lesser
