Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


( 103 ). Triglyceride concentrations tended to be lower with the MUFA diet, but were significantly higher with the high carbohydrate diet. Overall, replacement with MUFA was associated with lesser reductions in HDL-C and lesser increases in TG as well as in Lp(a) concentrations. Of note, the dietary lipid responses varied on the basis of baseline lipid profiles, but they did not differ by metabolic syndrome or insulin resistance status ( 103 ). Mixed results have been reported in diabetic patients with respect to the effects of dietary carbohydrates on plasma lipids ( 115 ). Triglyceride levels were significantly decreased with a carbohydrate restricted diet compared to a diet high in carbohydrates (50%–55% of energy from carbohydrates) ( 116 , 117 ). The effects of carbohydrate restriction on LDL-C and HDL-C appear to be largely modulated by the dietary fatty acid distribution ( 118 ). Under weight-stable conditions, low-carbohydrate diets led to reductions in TC/HDL-C, apoB and small dense LDL particles, with comparable magnitude of changes to that of achieved by weight loss (without restriction of carbohydrate intake) ( 119 , 120 ). A recent systematic analysis of 17 clinical trials among obese subjects reported that low-carbohydrate diets were associated with significant decreases in TG and increases in HDL-C, without impacting LDL-C ( 121 ). Carbohydrates and Atherogenic Dyslipidemia In recent years, increasing attention has been paid to the dietary modulation of “atherogenic dyslipidemia”, characterized by a higher proportion of small dense LDL particles, reduced concentrations of HDL-C and increased concentrations of TG ( 122 ). Individuals with obesity, the metabolic syndrome, insulin resistance and/or type 2 diabetes mellitus often exhibit atherogenic dyslipidemia and are at increased risk for CVD ( 123 , 124 ). Studies replacing saturated fat with carbohydrates have investigated the impact of carbohydrate intake on LDL particle size, which has been associated with CVD endpoints ( 125-129 ). To aid CVD risk stratification of patients, some lipoprotein assays have established cut-off points for LDL particle size: a particle size of >25.5 nm as measured by gradient gel electrophoresis is defined as Pattern A (normal) and a particle size of <25.5 nm is defined as Pattern B (atherogenic) ( 130 , 131 ). Individuals with pattern B have a higher proportion of small dense LDL particles, and thus more likely to have atherogenic dyslipidemia. The amount of dietary carbohydrates was associated with a decrease in LDL particle
