Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


have a higher proportion of small dense LDL particles, and thus more likely to have atherogenic dyslipidemia. The amount of dietary carbohydrates was associated with a decrease in LDL particle size and an increase in LDL density, contributing to the atherogenic dyslipidemia ( 132 ). In a crossover study among healthy middle-aged men, a 6-wk intervention with a low-fat and high-carbohydrate (LFHC) diet resulted in significantly elevated concentrations of TG and small/very small LDL particles with a lower concentration of HDL-C as compared to a high-fat low-carbohydrate (HFLC) diet ( 133 ). Of note, proportions of saturated vs. unsaturated fat (1:1) and simple vs. complex carbohydrates (1:1) were kept the same in these studies. Additionally, many individuals who were pattern A on the HFLC diet became pattern B when consumed LFHC diet. All individuals who had pattern B on HFLC diet did not change on LFHC diet. Furthermore, individuals who consistently had pattern A on both HFLC and LFHC diets underwent a follow up study with a very low-fat diet (10% of calories from fat with replacement with carbohydrates) ( 134 ). One third of these individuals converted to pattern B on this diet. Thus, it was suggested that reduced fat consumption replaced with an increased intake of carbohydrates modifies lipid and lipoprotein profiles towards atherogenic dyslipidemia. On the other hand, reductions in dietary carbohydrate, even in the context of a diet high in saturated fat, have been associated with increases in large and medium LDL particles, and decreases in small, dense LDL particles ( 135 ). In a study among overweight men, where the differences between higher (54% of calories from carbohydrate, 1:1 simple: complex) vs. lower (39%, 1:1) carbohydrate diet were made up with protein calories (not fat), the subjects had a higher prevalence of pattern B when on the high-carbohydrate diet. These observations indicate that dietary carbohydrates may be a driving force for atherogenic dyslipidemia. Another study in overweight men provided a more detailed view with respect to the effects of varying carbohydrates and saturated fat, as well as weight loss, on lipid profiles ( 135 ). Under weight-maintenance phase, the subjects on low-carbohydrate diets experienced significant decreases in their TG and small/very small LDL particle concentrations, whereas the subjects on the higher-carbohydrate diet showed only modest changes. In contrast, under the weight-loss phase, subjects on higher-carbohydrate diet displayed larger decreases in TG and small/very small LDL
