Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


whereas the subjects on the higher-carbohydrate diet showed only modest changes. In contrast, under the weight-loss phase, subjects on higher-carbohydrate diet displayed larger decreases in TG and small/very small LDL particle concentrations than did those on the lower-carbohydrate diet, and caught up with the subjects on the lower-carbohydrate diet by the end of the study (a catch-up phenomenon). In this study, comparing low-carbohydrate diets with a high vs. a low saturated fat content, changes in TG, small LDL particles, or prevalence of pattern B, both underweight-maintenance and weight-loss phases, did not differ significantly. In line with these findings, diets high in saturated fat (38% of calories from fat of which 20% of calories from saturated fat) or high in MUFA (38% of calories from fat of which 22% of calories form MUFA) yielded no significant differences in TG, small LDL particles, or prevalence of pattern B ( 136 ). In contrast, when compared to a high-carbohydrate diet (30% of calories from fat, 55% of calories from carbohydrate) both high-fat diets resulted in larger LDL sizes, with one third of subjects converting to pattern B from pattern A on the high-carbohydrate diet. Finally, in the Framingham Heart Study, after multivariate adjustments for carbohydrate intake and a variety of other confounders, there were no differences in TG or LDL size across various fat contents (total, saturated, MUFA, or PUFA) ( 137 ). A recent 4-wk intervention study among 63 healthy individuals found a significantly smaller LDL peak particle size after a LFHC diet compared to a HFLC diet ( 138 ). In addition, the LFHC diet increased plasma concentrations of Lp(a), oxidized phospholipid (OxPL)/apoB ratio, and OxPL-apo(a) compared to the HFLC diet. Changes in Lp(a) were strongly correlated with changes in OxPL/apoB, decreases in medium LDL particles, and increases in very small LDL particles ( 138 ). A 9-month intervention study in overweight and obese adults reported significantly increased LDL particle size after a low-carbohydrate diet, whereas there was no difference after a low-fat diet ( 139 ). Of note the change in body weight was similar between these two groups. It is likely that among overweight/obese individuals, when LDL size is already decreased, no further decrease can be induced by a low-fat diet. A Mediterranean-style diet with reduced energy intake from carbohydrate and fat (but with increases in MUFA intake) and increased energy intake from protein has been shown to reduce
