Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


low-fat diet. A Mediterranean-style diet with reduced energy intake from carbohydrate and fat (but with increases in MUFA intake) and increased energy intake from protein has been shown to reduce small LDL ( 140 ). In addition, the ratio of large HDL to small HDL particles was increased and ApoB, OxLDL and Lp(a) concentrations were reduced after a 12-wk of intervention. Overall, these findings suggest that dietary fat content may not have a major impact on atherogenic dyslipidemia, that carbohydrate metabolism impacts LDL particle quality rather than its quantity and that diets low in carbohydrate may help to improve LDL quality. However, lower-fat and higher-carbohydrate diets, compared to higher-fat and lower-carbohydrate diets, may induce greater reductions in LDL-C concentrations (particularly in individuals starting with pattern B). Therefore, beneficial effects of a high or a low carbohydrate diet on cardiovascular health remain to be clarified. It is likely that dietary strategies tailored to meet individual’s need with regard to improving overall lipid profile with consideration for the personal preference for food choice over the long term and/or the individual metabolic and genetic environment have the promise to bring the most sustained and beneficial effects. DIETARY SUGARS, GLYCEMIC INDE, GLYCEMIC LOAD, AND ATHEROGENIC DYSLIPIDEMIA Dietary sugar is a major source of carbohydrates, and research focused on sugar consumption has provided much evidence supporting a role of sugar in the development of cardiometabolic disease. Different kinds of sugar impact differentially on the lipid profile and its contribution to atherogenic dyslipidemia. Fructose is known to increase TG levels and impair insulin sensitivity, and has been shown, in several recent studies, to more adversely impact LDL particle subclass profile than glucose. In a 10-wk study among overweight and obese individuals, indices of postprandial TG (23-h area under the curve, TG exposure and postprandial peak, but not fasting TG) increased after fructose, but not after glucose intake ( 141 ). Of note, fructose also increased small dense LDL particles. High fructose corn syrup (HFCS) has become a major source of fructose intake, and a recent study investigated whether there are differences in the lipid profile after consumptions of HFCS, glucose, or fructose alone ( 142 ). In young healthy individuals, a 2-wk intervention with 25% energy requirements as HFCS-sweetened beverages resulted in significant increases of fasting LDL-C, non-HDL-C, apoB, postprandial TG, remnant cholesterol and TG, as well as in small dense LDL particles. These changes were
