Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


requirements as HFCS-sweetened beverages resulted in significant increases of fasting LDL-C, non-HDL-C, apoB, postprandial TG, remnant cholesterol and TG, as well as in small dense LDL particles. These changes were comparable to the ones seen with fructose, but were greater than those seen with glucose ( 142 ). In a 3-wk RCT of healthy young men, LDL particle size was decreased compared with baseline after consumption of a moderate amount of fructose or sucrose (80 g/day) and a shift towards a more atherogenic profile in the LDL subclass distribution was observed ( 143 ). A consumption of a lower amount of fructose (40 g/day) was also associated with similar changes. In addition, among overweight schoolchildren, fructose intake predicted LDL particle size ( 144 ). Carbohydrate containing foods can differ substantially in their ability to impact postprandial glucose concentrations, and this effect can be quantified by “glycemic index” (GI) ( 145 ) or “glycemic load” (GL) ( 146 ). Consumption of carbohydrates with a higher GI was associated with an increased plasma TG concentration in a large observational study, and this observation was independent of age, BMI, exercise, and the intake of other macronutrients ( 147 ). A 2008 meta-analysis of observational studies reported an association between the consumption of lower GI foods and lower TG and higher HDL-C concentrations ( 148 ). It was estimated that replacement of high GI foods for low GI foods can result 15% to 25% reductions in TG concentrations ( 149 ). A high GI was associated with an unfavorable lipoprotein subclass profile as determined by a nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( 150 ). Using the GI/GL classification system, the effects of low vs. high GI diets on cardiovascular risk factors were evaluated in a meta-analysis of RCTs conducted between 1981 and 2003 ( 151 ). Low GI diets, compared to high GI diets, were associated with significant improvements in markers of glycemic controls and TC concentration, but there were no associations with HDL-C, LDL-C, and TG concentrations, although a subgroup analysis in diabetic patients showed a non-significant trend towards a lower LDL-C concentration. A 2004 Cochrane meta-analysis of 21 RCTs among subjects with at least one major CVD risk factor or a CHD diagnosis, where subjects were provided either dietary instruction or food for a minimum of four weeks, concluded that there is no significant effect of the GI value of the diet on
