Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


where subjects were provided either dietary instruction or food for a minimum of four weeks, concluded that there is no significant effect of the GI value of the diet on fasting glucose, insulin, HbA1c, HDL-C, and TG concentrations ( 152 ). However, low GI diets resulted in a modest decrease in LDL-C concentration ( p =0.05) ( 152 ). In 2017, the same authors updated their analysis using data from 21 RCTs, of which the majority were newly added studies ( 153 ) and again found no evidence of a difference between low and high GI diets for TC, LDL-C, HDL-C, and triglycerides. In contrast, a 2013 meta-analysis of RCTs comparing studies that supplied at least one meal per day with a high or low GI value found significant reductions in TC [-0.13 mmol/L (5 mg/dL), 27 trials, 1,441 participants] and LDL-C [-0.16 mmol/L (6.2 mg/dL), 23 trials, 1,281 participants] concentrations with low vs. high GI diets. Again, there was no evidence that a low GI diet was beneficial for HDL-C or TG concentrations ( 154 ). These inconsistent findings across meta-analyses of RCTs could be due to inclusion of studies with different study settings/designs with regard to the application of dietary interventions. It is important to distinguish between RCTs where participants were provided only dietary instructions to modify their dietary GI values, and those where some or all foods (i.e., controlled-feeding trials) were supplied to the participants. To address these issues, Kristo et al. recently attempted to summarize the effects of diets differing in GI/GL on cardiovascular risk factors by focusing on only randomized controlled-feeding trials where all foods and beverages were provided to participants ( 155 ). Two cross-over studies (designed to maintain weight) reported contradictory results ( 156 , 157 ). One study found significant increases ( 156 ) and the other found significant decreases ( 157 ) in TC, LDL-C and HDL-C with the low vs. high GI diet ( 155 ). In three other parallel studies (designed for weight loss) ( 158-160 ), TC, LDL-C, VLDL-C, and TG concentrations were not affected by the GI value of diets. It was concluded that it is premature to use GI/GL values of the diets in formulating dietary recommendations ( 155 ). Studies by Stanhope et al. may provide more insights into the potential role and use of GI in cardiometabolic disease risk ( 161 ). The GI
