Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


recommendations ( 155 ). Studies by Stanhope et al. may provide more insights into the potential role and use of GI in cardiometabolic disease risk ( 161 ). The GI of fructose is 23 compared with 100 for glucose. In their studies, the calculated relative GI of the baseline complex-carbohydrate diet, the high-glucose intervention diet, and the high-fructose intervention diet, consumed during the 24 h blood collections, was 64, 83, and 38, respectively ( 141 , 142 , 161 ). As expected, glucose and insulin excursions of the diets paralleled the GI, with exposure being highest on the glucose diet, intermediate on the complex-carbohydrate baseline diet, and lowest on the fructose diet. However, individuals consuming the high-fructose diets with the lowest GI index and glycemic exposure exhibited increased visceral abdominal adipose tissue and decreased insulin sensitivity ( 141 ), and increases of LDL, apoB, and postprandial TG ( 141 , 142 ). In contrast, when individuals consumed high-glucose diets, postprandial plasma glucose and insulin excursions increased substantially ( 141 , 142 ), however, insulin sensitivity ( 141 ) and postprandial TG exposure, LDL, and apoB remained unchanged ( 141 , 142 ), These findings underscore the importance of accurately assessing glucose and fructose content in study diets. The authors noted that dietary fructose may be an important contributor to the inconsistent reported effects of dietary GI on metabolic risk factors, and that this together with other differences (e.g., fiber content) between high and low GI diets, may underlie these inconsistent observations ( 161 ). It is likely that the fructose, and not the glucose, component of sucrose and HFCS is primarily responsible for their adverse metabolic effects ( 161 ). Effects of Saturated Fat and Its Replacements on Coronary Heart Disease Risk In 2009, a pooled analysis of 11 prospective cohort studies demonstrated a significant inverse association of PUFA with risk of coronary events and death for a 5% lower energy intake from SFA and a concomitant higher energy intake from PUFA ( 162 ). There was a modest but direct association of coronary events with replacement of the same amount of energy with carbohydrates and no association of MUFA with coronary risk. It was suggested that replacing SFA with PUFA rather than MUFA or carbohydrates prevents CHD over a wide range of intakes ( 162 ). Mozaffarian et al. ( 94 ), in their 2010 systematic review and meta-analysis
