Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


PUFA rather than MUFA or carbohydrates prevents CHD over a wide range of intakes ( 162 ). Mozaffarian et al. ( 94 ), in their 2010 systematic review and meta-analysis of RCTs of more than 1-year duration, showed that saturated fat replaced with vegetable oil rich in n-6 PUFA reduced CHD incidence, and that the stronger the saturated fat reduction the lower the CHD incident. In these trials, the average PUFA consumption was 15% of energy in the intervention diets and 5% of energy in the control diets. The overall pooled reduction in CHD incidence was 19% corresponding to 10% reduced risk per 5% energy of increased PUFA intake. Study duration was an independent predictor of risk reduction, with studies of longer duration showing greater benefits. Of the eight trails included in this meta-analysis, only three of the RCTs replaced saturated fat with solely n-6 PUFA, whereas the other five RCTs used a mixture of n-6 and n-3 PUFA. In these latter trials, CHD incident was reduced by 22%. A 2014 linoleic acid-focused meta-analysis of 13 prospective cohort studies reported a 15% lower risk of CHD events and a 21% lower risk of CHD deaths when comparing the highest category with the lowest category ( 163 ). A 5% of energy increment in linoleic acid intake replacing energy from SFA was associated with a 9% lower risk of CHD events and a 13% lower risk of CHD deaths. Thus, dietary linoleic acid intake is inversely associated with CHD risk in a dose-response manner, providing support to current recommendations to replace SFA with PUFA for primary prevention of CHD. In two large cohort studies (Nurses’ Health Study and Health Professionals Follow-up Study) with a follow-up of 24 to 30 years, higher intakes of PUFAs and carbohydrates from whole grains were significantly associated with a lower risk of CHD ( 164 ). Replacing 5% of energy from SFA with equivalent energy from PUFAs, MUFAs, or whole-grain-carbohydrates was associated with a 25%, 15%, and 9% lower risk of CHD, respectively. A 2010 meta-analysis of 21 prospective cohort studies using a random-effects model, which allows heterogeneity of variance between studies, reported no significant association of saturated fat intake with CHD, stroke, or CVD ( 165 ). Evaluation of the subset studies that adjusted for total energy, which has been shown to be relevant in evaluating nutrient-disease relations ( 166 ), yielded similar results. As
