Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


165 ). Evaluation of the subset studies that adjusted for total energy, which has been shown to be relevant in evaluating nutrient-disease relations ( 166 ), yielded similar results. As the authors noted, due to insufficient information in the component studies with respect to dietary carbohydrates or PUFA, the meta-analysis did not asses the effects on CVD risk of replacing specific amount of saturated fat with either carbohydrate or PUFA. The meta-analysis stated that there is insufficient evidence from prospective epidemiological studies to conclude that dietary saturated fat is associated with an increased risk of CHD, stroke, or CVD. A 2013 re-analysis of recovered data from 1960s and 1970s in the Sydney Diet Heart Study reported a higher risk of all-cause mortality, CVD mortality, and CHD in the high n-6 PUFA group (15% of calories as PUFA) compared to the control group (no specific dietary instruction) ( 167 ). These findings contradict current evidence that n-6 PUFA intake is associated with reduced CVD risk. In these studies, however, PUFA was supplied as safflower oil margarine to substitute for animal fats, which may contain trans fatty acids. Trans fatty acids significantly increase CHD risk, and were not evaluated in these studies. Regarding trans fatty acids, a meta-analysis of four prospective cohort studies, reported that a reduction in intake of trans fatty acids equal to 2% of energy is associated with a 24% lower risk for CHD ( 21 ). Trans fatty acids originate from two independent dietary sources: industrially produced and naturally occurring (i.e., ruminant). Since the report on differences in the impact of both dietary sources in the Nurses’ Health Study ( 168 ), data from intervention studies have become available ( 169-172 ). In 2014, a systematic review and meta-analysis of 13 RCTs assessed the impact of ruminant trans fatty acids intake on changes in cardiovascular risk factors ( 173 ). No relationship was seen between intake of ruminant trans fatty acids up to 4.19% of energy and TC/HDL-C or LDL-C/HDL-C ratios. A multivariate regression analysis adjusting for other dietary variables and subjects’ baseline characteristics confirmed that doses of ruminant trans fatty acids did not significantly influence the changes in the lipid ratio. It was concluded that trans fatty acids from natural sources, up to 4.19% of energy intake, had no adverse effects on these CVD risk markers in healthy people. In 2014, a systematic review and meta-analysis of
