Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


large prospective cohort studies by the Agency for Health Research and Quality reported that EPA+DHA supplementation (0.27-6.0 g/day) reduced RRs of cardiac mortality by about 11% ( 179 ). In contrast, several other recent meta-analyses have failed to find evidence on the beneficial effects of EPA+DHA intake on CVD risk. A 2012 meta-analysis of RCTs challenged the research that demonstrates protective effect of n-3 PUFA supplementation on CVD, by reporting no association between n-3 PUFA intake and CVD risk ( 177 ). Another meta-analysis of RCTs in patients with a history of CVD did not find sufficient evidence of a secondary preventive effect of n-3 PUFA supplementation against cardiovascular events ( 178 ). A 2014 meta-analysis of 32 cohort studies (841,211 subjects) focused on MUFA reported an overall risk reduction of all-cause mortality (11%), cardiovascular mortality (12%), cardiovascular events (9%), and stroke (17%) when comparing the top vs. bottom third of MUFA, olive oil, oleic acid, and MUFA:SFA ratio ( 184 ). A subgroup analyses indicated significant associations between higher intakes of olive oil and reduced risk of all-cause mortality, cardiovascular events, and stroke, whereas the MUFA subgroup analyses did not reveal any significant risk reduction ( 184 ). A 2017 Presidential Advisory from the AHA concluded that lowering intake of SFA and replacing it with unsaturated fats, especially PUFA, will lower the incidence of CVD, through lowering of LDL-C, a cause of atherosclerosis ( 43 ). A 2017 systematic review reported that a high intake of SFA and trans fats is associated with an 8-13% higher total mortality ( 185 ). Replacement of SFA with any carbohydrates, PUFA or MUFA was associated with a lower total mortality, with PUFA being more effective than MUFA (19% vs. 11% reduction). With regard to CVD mortality, replacement of SFA with PUFA and fish oil, 5% total energy, lowered risk by ~28%. CHD events were found to be equally reduced by replacements with PUFA or MUFA. While replacement of SFA with high-quality carbohydrates (whole grains) reduces CHD events, its replacement with sugar/starch increases the events. PUFA replacement of SFA was the only strategy to show reductions in all three outcomes, i.e., all-cause mortality, CVD mortality, and CHD events ( 185 ). Taken together, these findings underscore the complexity of assessing the effects of dietary interventions on cardiovascular risk and that there are likely many factors contributing to the variability in observations. These factors
