Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


>1.4; cholesterol intake <200 mg/day, and energy intake to achieve desirable body weight) ( 188 ). The latter diet was of similar efficacy to diets that aimed to lower total fat intake or to raise the polyunsaturated to saturated fatty acid ratio. It was concluded that individualized dietary advice for reducing cholesterol concentration is modestly effective in free-living subjects, and more intensive diets achieve a greater reduction in serum cholesterol concentration ( 187 ). Failure to comply fully with dietary recommendations is the likely explanation for this limited efficacy. An updated 2013 Cochrane database systematic review analysis of 44 randomized studies (with at least three months duration, excluding trials to reduce weight or those involving dietary supplementations) assessed the effects of providing dietary advice to achieve sustained dietary changes or improved cardiovascular risk profile among healthy adults ( 189 ). Compared to no advice, dietary advice reduced TC by 0.15 mmol/L (5.8 mg/dL) and LDL-C by 0.16 mmol/L (6.2 mg/dL) after three to 24 months, while HDL-C and TG concentrations were unchanged. In addition, dietary advice increased fruit and vegetable intake by 1.18 servings/day and fiber intake by 6.5 g/day, with a 4.5% and 2.4% reduction in total and saturated dietary fat (as a percentage of total energy), respectively. It was concluded that dietary advice appears to be effective in bringing about modest beneficial changes in diet and cardiovascular risk factors over approximately 12 months, but longer-term effects are not known. A 2017 systematic review and meta-analysis of five RCTs in diabetic individuals compared individualized nutrition therapy with dietary advice ( 190 ). At short term (6 or 12 months), nutrition therapy compared with dietary advice was associated with a 0.17 mmol/L lower LDL-C level (6.6mg/dl), as well as a lower BMI and body weight, and improvements in HbA1c. Modification of plasma lipid profile by low-fat dietary interventions was dependent on menopausal status of women. A 2014 meta-analysis of eight RCTs with a duration ≥4 wks among pre- and post-menopausal women reported significant reductions in TC [mean difference -0.49 mmol/L (18.9 mg/dL)], HDL-C [mean difference -0.12 mmol/L (4.6 mg/dL)] and LDL-C [mean difference -0.24 mmol/L (9.3 mg/dL)] by a low-fat diet intervention ( 191 ). Further subgroup analysis revealed that the low-fat diet was efficacious in reducing TC, HDL-C, and LDL-C in premenopausal women but not in postmenopausal women. A low-fat diet intervention, however, did not significantly alter TG concentration
