Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


lipids and lipoproteins to individual SFA intake are heterogeneous. 2. Cholesterol-raising effects of SFA depend on chain-length as these effects decrease as chain lengths increase. 3. SFA, excluding stearic acid, increase TC, LDL-C, and HDL-C levels, where myristic acid exhibits the most potent cholesterol-raising effect. 4. Overall effects of dietary cholesterol on blood cholesterol level are limited and modulated by other nutritional components. 5. There is a considerable interindividual variation in response to dietary cholesterol with some individuals (15-25%) demonstrating marked increases in LDL-C level. 6. Substitution of SFA with PUFA or MUFA decreases TC, LDL-C as well as HDL-C levels. 7. Substitution of SFA with carbohydrates lowers TC, LDL-C and HDL-C levels and increases triglyceride level. 8. High carbohydrate diets decrease LDL particle size and increase LDL density. Abbreviations: SFA, saturated fatty acids, MUFA, monounsaturated fatty acids; PUFA, polyunsaturated fatty acids; PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND EXERCISE Historical Perspective Founded on early observations on the relationship between occupational physical activity (PA) and chronic disease risk (e.g., CVD mortality), Jeremiah Morris et al. followed a large cohort of London transport workers (age range: 35 -64 years) in 1949-1950 ( 193 ). They found that the sedentary bus drivers had higher rates of CVD mortality than their active counterparts, the conductors, and postulated that physically active work had a cardioprotective effect. This work was extended to postmen and postal clerks, where postmen who walked or cycled while delivering mail had much lower rates of heart disease than the postal clerks who had sedentary jobs ( 193 ). Further, Morris et al. documented a dose response for exercise by showing lower rates of CVD among postal workers whose jobs offered at least some PA compared to employees who spent most of the workday seated ( 193 ). It was posited that “men doing physically active work have a lower mortality from CHD in middle age than men in less active work.” In a 1966 article, Morris et al. reported a significant relationship between occupational PA and CVD, and that other CVD risk factors such as hypertension and blood lipids were reduced in physically active conductors compared with the sedentary drivers ( 194 ). Around the same time, in 1951, Ralph Paffenbarger et al. began an observational study of >3,000 San Francisco longshoremen (age range: 35-64 years), and followed them for 16 years ( 195 ). They found that the CVD death rate was significantly
