Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


an observational study of >3,000 San Francisco longshoremen (age range: 35-64 years), and followed them for 16 years ( 195 ). They found that the CVD death rate was significantly lower in the most active compared with sedentary workers. In 1975, Paffenbarger et al. examined repeated bouts of work activity in another cohort of >6,000 longshoremen, and reported that the longshoremen in the high expenditure per work shift group had lower age-adjusted rates for CVD compared with the other two groups (middle and low expenditure groups) ( 195 ). Numerous other studies have documented an inverse association between occupational PA and CVD risk ( 196-199 ). In 1968, to test the hypothesis that PA outside the occupational domain would provide cardioprotective benefits, Morris et al. initiated a 3-year prospective study of executive-grade men in the UK (age range: 40-64 years). A vigorous leisure time PA was associated with a 33% reduction in RR of a CVD event, providing support for the role of vigorous PA in promoting cardiovascular health ( 200 ). Another study of Morris et al. with a 8-year follow-up demonstrated that individuals who engaged in vigorous leisure time PA had a lower rate of fatal CVD events and nonfatal CVD events when compared with sedentary counterparts ( 201 ). In 1978, Paffenbarger et al. in the College Alumni Heath Study, reported that individuals in the low energy-expenditure group had >60% increased risk of CVD regardless of other risk factors ( 202 ). A low PA when combined with another risk factor (i.e., smoking or hypertension) led to a 2.7 fold increase in RR; whereas combination of all 3 risk factors increased the RR to 7.7 ( 202 ). Over the past few decades, there has been a substantial accrual of epidemiological evidence on the inverse relationship between leisure time PA and CVD. A recent meta-analysis of 26 prospective cohort studies (513,472 individuals and 20,666 CHD events) with follow-ups of 4 to 25 years reported significant reductions in CVD mortality in both high and moderate levels of self-reported leisure time PA ( 203 ). Physical Activity versus Different Modalities of Exercise Although being used in the literature interchangeably, PA and exercise denote different concepts. According to the US Department of Health and Human Service and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, “PA” refers to any bodily movement produced by skeletal muscles that results in an expenditure of energy,
