Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


Department of Health and Human Service and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, “PA” refers to any bodily movement produced by skeletal muscles that results in an expenditure of energy, which includes a broad range of occupational, leisure and daily activities; whereas “exercise” refers to planned or structured PA, performed for a reason, and can include aerobic exercise, resistance training or combined aerobic and resistance training ( 204 ). PHYSICAL ACTIVITY Physical Activity (PA) appears to impact CVD risk through beneficial effects on several factors, including adiposity, insulin sensitivity, glycemic control, type 2 diabetes incidence, blood pressure, blood lipids, endothelial function, hemostasis, and inflammatory defense systems ( 205 ). In the Women’s Health Study, these factors explained 59% of the observed inverse relation between PA and incident CVD over an 11-year follow-up period ( 206 ). Of note, among women, traditional and novel (Lp(a), apoA1, and B-100) blood lipids and lipoproteins contributed to lower risk by 19% and 16%, respectively. Inflammatory and hemostatic risk factors (CRP, fibrinogen, and soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1) had the largest contribution to lower risk (33%), followed by blood pressure (27%), BMI (10%), and HbA 1c /diabetes (9%). A 1999 report of the Nurses' Health Study examined the association between total PA and CHD events in >72,000 nurses (age range; 40 and 65 years) ( 207 ). There was a strong inverse gradient between PA energy expenditure and CHD events. When women were grouped in quintiles from inactive to highly active based on their self-reported PA patterns, the age-adjusted RR of a CHD event decreased in a stepwise fashion by 23%, 35%, 46%, and 54%, respectively. After multivariate adjustments (i.e., familial history, age, tobacco use, hormone replacement therapy, hypercholesterolemia, aspirin therapy, vitamin supplementation, and BMI), the association remained strong. This study demonstrated that women who walked vigorously for greater than 150 min/wk had a 35% reduction in CHD events compared with those who walked infrequently ( 207 ). Aadahl et al. reported significant associations between self-reported 25-h PA and HDL-C (positive) or TG (negative) concentrations in a 3-year follow up study among previously sedentary 1,693 men and women aged 33–64 years ( 208 ). PA intervention was based on lifestyle consultations and subjects on lipid-lowering medications were excluded from analysis. A 5-year follow up study by the same investigators demonstrated significant improvements in TC, LDL-C, and TG among 4,039 participants aged 30–60 years, with an additional
