Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


were excluded from analysis. A 5-year follow up study by the same investigators demonstrated significant improvements in TC, LDL-C, and TG among 4,039 participants aged 30–60 years, with an additional significant improvement in HDL-C seen only in men ( 209 ). A 2017 pooled analysis of nine population-based cohorts (>37,000 adults) evaluated the associations between leisure-time PA, low HDL-C and mortality ( 210 ). Compared with those who met PA guidelines (≥150 min/wk of moderate-intensity PA, ≥75 min/wk of vigorous-intensity PA, or equivalent combinations) and whose HDL-C was normal (ref group), all-cause mortality risk was not elevated in those who met PA guidelines and whose HDL-C was low. In contrast, compared with the ref group, all-cause mortality risk was elevated in those who did not meet PA guidelines and whose HDL-C was either normal or low. CVD mortality hazard ratios were similar, although confidence intervals were wider. These findings support the notion that leisure-time PA be recommended in those with low HDL-C who may be resistant to the HDL-raising effect of exercise training. A community intervention trial among Spanish adults (mean age: 65 years; 77% women) assessed the short- and medium-term effectiveness of nine months of a supervised PA program ( 211 ). The intervention consisted of 120 min/wk walking (396 METs/min/wk) and sociocultural gathering once a month. At the end of the study, TC (-10.1 mg/dL) and LDL-C (-9.1 mg/dL) levels and systolic BP (-6.6 mmHg) were reduced significantly in the intervention group relative to the control group. At 2 yrs after the intervention, the incidence of adverse CVD events was significantly lower (3% vs. 11%) and the adherence to regular PA was higher (73% vs. 27%) in the intervention vs. the control group. A 2017 systematic review and meta-analysis of RCTs (≥12 months) among adults without impaired glucose tolerance or diabetes estimated the effects of lifestyle interventions, involving PA, dietary, or combined strategies on CVD risk factors ( 212 ). Compared to usual care, lifestyle interventions achieved significant improvements in TC (-0.10 mmol/L) (3.9mg/dl), LDL-C (-0.09 mmol/L) (3.5mg/dl), HDL-C (0.03 mmol/L) (1.2mg/dl) and TG (-0.08 mmol/L) (7mg/dl) as well as BP. Combined strategies had greater and significant effects on blood lipid profile than PA alone strategy. The authors noted that this finding may be related to methodological shortcomings in exercise-only interventions such as low adherence, insufficient exercise volume or length of intervention ( 212 ). In addition, evidence
