Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


noted that this finding may be related to methodological shortcomings in exercise-only interventions such as low adherence, insufficient exercise volume or length of intervention ( 212 ). In addition, evidence suggests that it may take up to two years for a previously sedentary obese individual to attain enough volume of exercise to modify risk factors. The potential associations with CVD risk factors of reallocating sedentary time in long bouts to sedentary time in non-bouts, light-intensity PA and moderate- to vigorous-intensity PA were evaluated in a cohort of pre-diabetic/diabetic individuals ( 213 ). Reallocation of sedentary time in bouts/non-bouts to moderate- to vigorous-intensity PA, but not to light-intensity PA, was associated with higher HDL-C levels. In addition, waist circumference and BMI were decreased. A recent small study among inactive older women with hypertriglyceridemia compared the effects of different patterns of walking on PP TG levels ( 214 ). Compared to the control regimen (8h sitting), continuous walking for 30 min in the morning or repeated short bouts over 8h reduced iAUC of PP TG by ~35%. AEROBIC EXERCISE Aerobic exercise training (AET) includes cardiorespiratory endurance exercises such as jogging, running, and cycling ( 204 ). A 6-month AET intervention, which progressed from 50 to 85% of maximum aerobic power for 20–60 min 3 times/wk resulted in significant decreases in TC and the TC/HDL-C ratio ( 215 ). In a 16-wk shorter duration study of young women, LeMura et al. found significant reductions in TG and increases in HDL-C following a progressive training protocol (3 times/wk at 70–75% HR max for 30 min for the first 8 weeks, which progressed, thereafter, to 4 times/wk at 85% HR max for 45 min) ( 216 ). A 2001 review article examined the effects of AET on blood lipids in exercise training intervention trials of more than 12 wks ( 217 ). A total of 51 studies, including 28 RCTs, were analyzed (~4,700 participants). A marked inconsistency was observed in responsiveness of blood lipids, with the most commonly observed change being an increase in HDL-C and with a less frequent reduction in TC, LDL-C, and TG concentrations. In training groups (61 groups, involving ~2,200 subjects) in which diet was held constant, the exercise-induced change in HDL-C ranged from a decrease of 5.8% to an increase of about 25%, with a mean increase of 4.6%. The increase in HDL-C with AET was inversely associated with its
