Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


HDL-C ranged from a decrease of 5.8% to an increase of about 25%, with a mean increase of 4.6%. The increase in HDL-C with AET was inversely associated with its baseline level, but there were no significant associations with age, sex, weekly volume of exercise, or with exercise-induced changes in body weight or peak oxygen effect (VO 2max ). Exercise training in the absence of simultaneous dietary interventions resulted in mean reductions in TG, LDL-C, and TC of 3.7%, 5.0%, and 1.0% ( p >0.05), respectively. Men generally had a greater reduction in TG levels than women. It was concluded that moderate- to hard-intensity AET inconsistently results in an improvement in the blood lipid profile, but that the data was insufficient to establish dose-response relationships. In 2001, while reviewing 51 studies on PA interventions, Kesaniemi et al. reported a mean increase of 4.6% in HDL-C ( 218 ). The effects on LDL-C and TG were reported as being inconsistent. It was concluded that the most likely PA-induced improvement in the lipid profile is an increase in HDL-C concentrations. This finding was supported by Banz et al., who reported a 13% increase in HDL-C following a 10-wk AET ( 219 ). In this study, HDL-C was the only component of the lipid profile that improved by the intervention. A 2002 RCT by Kraus et al. among sedentary, overweight women and men with mild to moderate dyslipidemia (n=111, 8 months duration) compared the effects of amount and intensity of exercise on blood lipid profile ( 220 ). All three AET exercise groups (“high-amount/high-intensity”, “low-amount/high-intensity”, and “low-amount/moderate intensity”) experienced improvements in blood lipid profile compared to controls (after excluding subjects with significant weight reductions). Of note, there were no marked differences in the effects between the two “low-amount” exercise groups, whereas more pronounced effects for virtually all studied variables were seen in the “high-amount” exercise group. The latter group expended energy equivalent of jogging 17–18 miles/wk compared to the “low-amount/high-intensity” and “low-amount/moderate-intensity” groups, who expended the equivalent of jogging or walking 11 miles/wk, respectively. Thus, the “high-amount” exercise reduced LDL, IDL, and small LDL particles and increased the median size of LDL particles and HDL-C concentrations. All types of exercises had beneficial effects on TG and size of VLDL particles. It appears that the effects depend on the amount rather than the intensity of exercise training. In line with these findings, Nybo et
