Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


on TG and size of VLDL particles. It appears that the effects depend on the amount rather than the intensity of exercise training. In line with these findings, Nybo et al. comparing a prolonged (150 min/wk) AET protocol with an intense interval running protocol (40 min/wk) reported no improvements in the lipid profile with the latter intervention among previously untrained individuals ( 221 ). The TC/HDL-C ratio was the only component of the lipid profile that improved significantly by the prolonged protocol. The authors suggested that the training volume, as opposed to the training intensity, is the key to improving the lipid profile, and that there may be a relationship between body fat (which decreased only in the prolonged exercise group) and cholesterol levels, whereby a volume sufficient to elicit changes in fat mass is required to favorably alter the lipid profile. While controlling the exercise volume (equal energy expenditure, i.e. three 400 kcal sessions/wk, 24 wks duration), O’Donovan et al. assessed the effects of exercise intensity in 64 previously sedentary men ( 222 ). Significant improvements in blood lipid profile were reported in the high-intensity, but not in the moderate-intensity exercise group, with a significant decrease in TC, LDL-C and non-HDL-C concentrations. These findings suggest that moderate-intensity exercise may be sufficient to increase HDL-C concentrations, but that a more intense exercise is needed to improve other components of the lipid profile, such as LDL-C or TG concentrations. The effects of exercise or PA on blood lipid profile may differ between gender groups. Specifically, HDL-C increased significantly more in men than in women ( 209 , 223 ) and men generally experienced greater reductions in TG concentrations than women ( 217 ). However, underlying mechanisms of these gender-specific differences as well as overall mechanisms by which exercise exerts its effects on blood lipids have not been fully delineated. The mechanisms may include reductions in hepatic lipase activity, increases in lipoprotein lipase activity ( 224 ) and lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase ( 225 ), as well as increases in peak LDL particle diameter and HDL 2 -mass ( 226 , 227 ). Among elderly women (70-87 years), a 10-wk AET intervention was associated with beneficial effects on blood lipid profile ( 228 ), suggesting that AET can help to ameliorate cardiometabolic burden also in this group. In a 2009 systematic review Tambalis et al. considered the effectiveness of AET with different intensities (high
