Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


and 72 h, respectively. The 50% group showed lesser LDL-C concentration than 110% group after 24 h. It was concluded that the acute RT may induce changes in lipid profile in a specific-intensity manner, and low and moderate exercise intensities appear to be promoting more benefits on lipid profile than high intensity RT. The acute effects of RT sessions performed at different levels of high- (three sets with max of 15 repetitions) and low- (one set with max of 15 repetitions) volume RT on postprandial lipemia was investigated in postmenopausal women ( 232 ). One RT session involved eight exercises. At 16 h following RT, there were no significant differences in TC, LDL-C, HDL-C, and TG concentrations between the high-volume and the low-volume group. A recent study by Vatani et al. examined the effects of a 6-wk moderate-intensity (45–55% 1 RM) and high-intensity (80-90% 1 RM) RT in healthy young men (n=30, 3 sessions/wk) ( 233 ). Both regimens significantly decreased TC, LDL-C and TC/HDL-C ratio, with no significant differences between groups, suggesting limited additional benefits of increasing the RT intensity. Interestingly, HDL-C concentration was found to be significantly increased only with the high-intensity regimen. Previous observations, however, have indicated that HDL-C is likely to be the first lipid profile response to PA and exercise, even at low intensities of activity ( 218 ). In both elderly men and women (n=236, mean age: 74 years), Arnarson et al. studied the responses of blood lipids to a 12-wk RT (3 times/wk; 3 sets, 6-8 repetitions at 75-80% of the 1 RM) ( 234 ). The concentrations of TC, HDL-C, LDL-C, and TG decreased significantly. Reductions in fat mass as well as a gain in lean body mass were predictors of TG reductions, whereas the use of lipid-lowering drugs was a predictor of TC and LDL-C reductions. COMBINED MODALITIES: AEROBIC EXERCISE AND RESISTANCE TRAINING There is limited data on the effects of combined training modalities (CT) on blood lipid profile. Tambalis et al. reviewed the effectiveness of different types of exercise (AET, RT, and CT) in altering blood lipid levels ( 229 ). For CT protocols, the results were inconsistent: only three out of eight studies reported remarkable improvement in LDL-C (4% to 34% decrease) and HDL-C (3.5% to 23% increase), whereas TC and TG were significantly reduced only in two trials ( 229 ). Two other trials reported no significant alterations
