Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


to 34% decrease) and HDL-C (3.5% to 23% increase), whereas TC and TG were significantly reduced only in two trials ( 229 ). Two other trials reported no significant alterations on the lipid profile in relation to the control group ( 216 , 235 ). The effects of a 16-wk moderate-intensity CT protocol [AET at 60% HR max with RT (two sets of 15 repetitions) at 60% 1 RM] was examined in previously untrained healthy young men (n = 28) ( 236 ). LDL-C reduced significantly following CT, without significant differences from those achieved by AET alone. It appears that no additional LDL-C reduction resulted from combining the two modes of exercise. Ha et al. combined 30 min of AET at 60-80% of the maximal heart rate reserve (maximal heart rate - heart rate at rest) [HR reserve ] with 30 min of RT at 12-15 repetitions maximum in 16 participants aged 20–26 years for 12 wks ( 237 ). The intervention significantly reduced the participants’ waist circumference, body fat percentage and blood pressure values, compared with those of non-exercising controls. Reductions in TC, LDL-C and TG were observed in the exercising group but did not reach statistical significance when compared with values in the controls. The authors suggested that the participants were too young to elicit the clinical and significant effects shown by previous research in predominantly elderly or middle-aged participants. A 2013 systematic review of 15 RCTs (≥8 wks duration, ~740 participants) compared the effects of different training modalities on anthropometric parameters, blood lipids, and cardiorespiratory fitness in overweight/obese subjects (BMI ≥25 kg/m 2 , ≥19 years of age) ( 238 ). Compared to RT, AET resulted in a significantly more pronounced reduction of body weight, waist circumference, and fat mass. RT was more effective than AET in improving lean body mass. When comparing CT with RT, mean difference in change of body weight, waist circumference, and fat mass were all in favor of CT. There were no significant differences in blood lipid profile between modalities. It was concluded that the CT is the most efficacious means to reduce anthropometric outcomes and should be recommended in the prevention and treatment of overweight, and obesity whenever possible. A 2014 comprehensive review by Mann et al. aimed to synthesizing the current published evidence regarding the impacts on cholesterol levels of AET, RT or both, based on 13 original research and
