Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


comprehensive review by Mann et al. aimed to synthesizing the current published evidence regarding the impacts on cholesterol levels of AET, RT or both, based on 13 original research and two review articles ( 239 ). The authors confirm the beneficial effects of regular activity on cholesterol levels, and present evidence-based exercise recommendations aimed at facilitating the prescription and delivery of interventions for optimizing cholesterol levels. For patients with dyslipidemia, it is recommended to increase PA to >30 min/day for 5 times/wk; prolonged moderate-intensity AET at 70–80% HR reserve , progressing to 85% HR max , combined with moderate- to high-intensity RT at 75–85% 1 RM. A 9-month community-based low-cost combined exercise program (aerobic, resistance, agility/balance, and flexibility exercise; three sessions/wk; 70 min/session) among middle-aged and older diabetic adults reduced TC by 7%, LDL-C by 11% and TG by 19%, and increased HDL-C by 7% ( 240 ). LIPOPROTEIN (a) Many population-based and cross-sectional studies have failed to detect an association between Lp(a) and PA level ( 241-248 ). However, in a large multicenter study of Finnish children and young adults, PA was inversely correlated with Lp(a) concentration in a dose-dependent manner ( 249 ). Consistent with these findings, an inverse association between physical fitness and Lp(a) concentration was seen in young children and adolescents with diabetes mellitus ( 250 ). Furthermore, prolonged high-intensity exercise training may impact Lp(a) levels as experienced distance runners and body builders have been shown to have higher Lp(a) levels ( 251 , 252 ). However, intervention studies extending from a few weeks to four years have not reported any changes in median Lp(a) concentration in response to moderate exercise training, despite improvements in fitness and other plasma lipoprotein concentrations ( 245 , 253-256 ). Overall, the magnitude of exercise-induced changes in Lp(a) levels are modest and any impact related to specific apo(a) size isoforms has not been addressed. Guidelines for Physical Activity and Exercise AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PHYSICAL ACTIVITY IN ADULTS For overall cardiovascular health, the AHA guideline recommends at least 30 min of moderate-intensity aerobic activity at least 5 days/wk for a total of 150, or at least 25 min of vigorous aerobic activity at least 3 days/wk for a total of 75 min; or a combination of moderate- and vigorous-intensity aerobic activity, and moderate- to high-intensity muscle-strengthening activity at least 2 days/wk for additional health benefits. For lowering blood pressure
