Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


of 75 min; or a combination of moderate- and vigorous-intensity aerobic activity, and moderate- to high-intensity muscle-strengthening activity at least 2 days/wk for additional health benefits. For lowering blood pressure and cholesterol it recommends an average 40 min of moderate- to vigorous-intensity aerobic activity 3 or 4 times/wk. THE PHYSICAL ACTIVITY GUIDELINES FOR AMERICANS The Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans (PAG) provides science-based guidance to help Americans (≥6 years old) improve their health through appropriate PA. The Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (ODPHP), within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), led the development of the first ever PAG in 2008, and the subsequent PAG Midcourse Report in 2013. The PAG recommendations complement the Dietary Guidelines for Americans as well as other national health promotion and disease prevention efforts. For adults, the PAG recommends at least 150 min/wk of moderate-intensity, or 75 min/wk of vigorous-intensity aerobic PA, or an equivalent combination of moderate- and vigorous intensity aerobic activity. Aerobic activity should be performed in episodes of at least 10 minutes, and preferably spread throughout the week. For additional and more extensive health benefits, adults are recommended to increase their aerobic PA to 300 min/wk of moderate intensity, or 150 min/wk of vigorous intensity aerobic PA, or an equivalent combination of moderate- and vigorous-intensity activity. The guideline also notes of additional health benefits by engaging in PA beyond this amount, and recommends doing muscle-strengthening activities that are moderate or high intensity, involving all major muscle groups on ≥2 days/wk. THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION GLOBAL RECOMMENDATIONS ON PHYSICAL ACTIVITY FOR HEALTH WHO developed the "Global Recommendations on Physical Activity for Health" with the overall aim of providing national and regional level policy makers with guidance on the dose-response relationship between the frequency, duration, intensity, type and total amount of PA needed for the prevention of non-communicable diseases. PA includes leisure time PA (e.g., walking, dancing, gardening, hiking, swimming), transportation (e.g. walking or cycling), occupational (i.e. work), household chores, play, games, sports or planned exercise, in the context of daily, family, and community activities. For adults aged 18–64 years, it is recommended doing at least 150 min of moderate-intensity aerobic PA throughout the week, or doing at least 75 min of vigorous-intensity aerobic PA throughout the week, or an equivalent combination of moderate- and vigorous-intensity activity. Aerobic activity should be performed in bouts of at least 10 minutes duration.
