Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


activity - Muscle-strengthening activities, involving major muscle groups At least 2 days/wk - Table 4. KEY POINTS: PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND EXERCISE View in own window 1. PA impacts cardiovascular risk through beneficial effects on several factors, including blood lipids and lipoproteins. 2. A vigorous walk >150 min/week resulted in a 35% reduction of coronary events. 3. PA increases HDL-C level and lowers triglyceride level. 4. AET has variable effects on blood lipids with the most common change being an increase in HDL-C level (a mean increase of 4.6%). 5. A more intense AET may be needed to improve LDL-C or triglyceride levels. 6. AET volume, as opposed to intensity, maybe the key to improving the lipid profile. 7. Acute RT-induced changes in lipid profile maybe depend on intensity as regimens with a low or moderate intensity appeared to promote more benefits than high intensity RT. 8. Moderate and high intensity RT regimens decrease TC, LDL-C and TC/HDL-C ratio with no significant differences between groups, suggesting limited additional benefits of increasing RT intensity. 9. CT reduced LDL-C level but without significant differences from those achieved by AET alone. 10. There are no significant differences in blood lipid profile between CT and RT modalities. Abbreviations: PA, physical activity; AET, aerobic exercise training; RT, resistance training; CT, combined modalities FUNCTIONAL FOODS Background Functional food is a term that is used by different groups to describe food with potential health benefits. There is no universally accepted definition for a functional food. The International Food Information Council Foundation described functional foods as, “foods or food components that provide benefits beyond basic nutrition and may play a role in reducing or minimizing risk of certain diseases and other health conditions” ( 257 , 258 ). Oatmeal is an example of a functional food because it helps to lower cholesterol levels in addition to providing energy and nutrition. Functional foods have been suggested to have the potential to reduce the risks associated with a number of diseases such as hyperlipidemia, CVD, diabetes, hypertension, bone disorders, immunological diseases, digestive disorders, and cancer ( 257 , 259 , 260 ). The use of functional foods has been increasing over the past two decades due to the increased interest in their potential health benefits ( 257 ). Although there is no universally accepted definition of functional foods, several definitions have been proposed. The term functional food was first coined in
