Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


their potential health benefits ( 257 ). Although there is no universally accepted definition of functional foods, several definitions have been proposed. The term functional food was first coined in Japan in the 1980's as FOSHU (Food for Specialized Health Uses) ( 261 ). FOSHU refers to "foods containing ingredients with functions for health and officially approved to claim its physiological effects on the human body", and is intended to be consumed for the maintenance or promotion of health or special health uses by people who wish to control health conditions, including blood pressure or blood cholesterol ( 261 ). In addition to the Japan Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, other organizations have offered definitions of functional food. The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics defined functional foods as "whole foods along with fortified, enriched, or enhanced foods that have a potentially beneficial effect on health when consumed as part of a varied diet on a regular basis at effective levels" ( 259 ). The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics stated “All foods are functional at some physiological level. Functional foods include whole foods and fortified, enriched, or enhanced foods that have a potentially beneficial effect on health when consumed as part of a varied diet on a regular basis, at effective levels” ( 262 ). Health Canada defines functional foods as being "similar in appearance to, or may be, a conventional food that is consumed as part of a usual diet, and is demonstrated to have physiological benefits and/or reduce the risk of chronic disease beyond basic nutritional functions" ( 263 ). The European Commission Concerted Action on Functional Food Science considers foods to be functional if they have a beneficial effect on one or more functions of the body and are still in the form of food, not a dietary supplement ( 264 ). No legal definition exists for functional foods in the United States, and there are no special regulations. FDA currently regulates functional foods under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act of 1938 and its amendments. Under these regulations, functional foods can be placed into a number of existing regulatory categories such as conventional foods, food additives, dietary supplements, medical foods or foods for special dietary use. Beyond basic nutrients such as carbohydrates, proteins and fats, functional foods generally contain bio-active components that may provide health benefits. There are many potential bioactive components including dietary
