Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


dietary use. Beyond basic nutrients such as carbohydrates, proteins and fats, functional foods generally contain bio-active components that may provide health benefits. There are many potential bioactive components including dietary fiber, polyunsaturated fats (e.g. omega 3 fatty acids/ n-3 ), antioxidants, and plant sterols/stanols. The commonly accepted characteristics of functional foods are: 1) they are in a food form, 2) they provide health benefits beyond basic nutritional needs, and 3) they can be consumed as a part of the regular diet. Dietary supplements are not considered functional foods as they are products in non-food form intended to supplement the diet. Functional foods could be classified based on 1) nature of origin, 2) degree of processing (whole foods, processed foods, conventional foods with enhanced bioactivity), and 3) health benefits. Functional foods based on their origin can be classified into two groups: a) animal origin and b) plant origin. Widely used functional foods from animal origin are fish, fish products such fish oil, fortified eggs and milk products. Functional foods from plant origin include fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds, fiber, whole grains, and spices. Functional foods based on processing could be categorized into three groups: a) whole foods, b) processed foods, and c) conventional foods with enhanced bioactivity. Whole foods are unprocessed and unrefined, or processed and refined as little as possible before being consumed. They naturally contain bioactive components and have not been fortified. Whole foods of plant origin include fruits and vegetables, nuts and seeds, beans and legumes, whole grains and fiber. Whole foods of animal origin include fish or dairy products. Processed functional foods do not generally contain natural bioactive components and these are added. Examples of processed functional foods include margarine spreads that contain n-3 fatty acids, calcium-fortified orange juice, and folic acid enriched breads. Conventional foods with enhanced bioactivity are foods that naturally contain bioactive components but where the level has been modified or concentrated. Examples of conventional foods with enhanced bioactivity include yogurt with increased level of probiotics, tomatoes with increased levels of lycopene, and eggs with increased levels of n-3 fatty acids. Clinical research studies conducted on functional foods over the past two decades have indicated that some functional foods may be useful in preventing, reducing and or treating risks associated with lipid disorders, CVD, diabetes, obesity or hypertension ( 257 , 259 , 260 , 265 ). Several functional foods have lipid altering properties such
