Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


and or treating risks associated with lipid disorders, CVD, diabetes, obesity or hypertension ( 257 , 259 , 260 , 265 ). Several functional foods have lipid altering properties such as lowering TC, LDL-C, and/or TG and/or improving high HDL-C concentrations ( Table 5 ). Below we focus on effects on lipid levels and discuss the efficacy of various functional foods in reducing TC, LDL-C, or TG levels and improving HDL-C levels and the supporting clinical evidence. In addition, we have examined the safety issues, and adverse effects of these functional foods. Table 5. Potential Lipid Lowering Benefits of Functional Foods View in own window Food Food examples Bio-active component Potential health benefit Fish Fish, fish oil n-3 fatty acids Reduces TG Nuts & seeds Almonds, walnuts etc. Unsaturated fats, fiber, antioxidants & phytochemicals Reduces TC and LDL-C Fiber Psyllium, pectin, wheat dextrin & oat fibers Soluble fibers (viscous fibers) & insoluble fibers (non-viscous fibers) Reduces TC and LDL-C Vegetables & fruits Apples, pear carrots, Brussel sprouts Fiber, phytosterols & stanols May help in lowering TC & LDL-C Whole grain Oats, barley, rye-based whole grain, red yeast rice & buckwheat Fiber & bran May help in lowering TC & LDL-C Fortified/enriched functional foods Margarines fortified with phytosterols, yogurt fortified with phytosterols Phytosterols such as sitosterol, campesterol & stigmasterol Reduces TC and LDL-C Other foods Wine Phytosterols May help to improve HDL-C Fish and Fish Products Clinical research studies conducted in the 1960s to early 2000s implicated differential effects of various types of fats on cardiovascular outcomes. These studies suggested that many saturated fatty acids (e.g. palmitic acid, mystric acid) and trans fatty acids could raise TC and/or LDL-C concentrations ( 65 , 266-270 ). In contrast, it was observed that there could be health benefits from the consumption of fish (e.g. oily fish) and fish products since it was found that Greenland Eskimos have a lower risk of heart disease despite consuming a high-fat diet ( 271 , 272 ). Several studies have suggested that these beneficial effects may be due to the presence of PUFAs (e.g. n-3 , n-6 ) found in fish ( 273-276 ). The consumption of fish and fish products as part of the regular diet has been reported to reduce risk for a number of diseases/conditions such as CVD, blood clotting, arthritis, and vitamin and mineral deficiencies ( 277 ). The market for fish and
