Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


has been reported to reduce risk for a number of diseases/conditions such as CVD, blood clotting, arthritis, and vitamin and mineral deficiencies ( 277 ). The market for fish and fish products has grown significantly in recent years because of the potential health benefits associated with fish consumption ( 278 ). Fish, especially salmon, mackerel, tuna, sturgeon, mullet, bluefish, anchovy, sardines, herring, trout, and menhaden are very rich sources of n-3 fatty acids, and contain relatively lower amounts of saturated fats. The amount of n-3 fatty acids and n-6 fatty acids in fish can vary significantly depending on a number of factors such as the type of fish, location of the catch, fish diet, and season ( 279 ). While many have recommended the intake of fish with a larger ratio of n-3 to n-6 fatty acids, the long-term effects of intake of fish with greater n-3 to n-6 ratio is not fully understood. Fish such as salmon, mackerel, tuna, and herring can contain about 1,000 mg of n-3 fatty acids in about 100 g of fish. Two main n-3 fatty acids are found in fish and other sea products, eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA, 20:5) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA, 22:6), believed to be responsible for the health benefits associated with fish oils. A summary of the EPA and DHA content of various fish is given in Table 6 . EPA and DHA are mostly found in fish and other seafood, while another n-3 fatty acid, alpha-linolenic acid (ALA, 18:3) is found mostly in nuts and seeds such as walnuts, flaxseed and some vegetable oils such as soybean and canola oils. The body is capable of converting ALA into EPA and DHA but the conversion rates are low and influenced by several factors such as smoking, environmental toxins, aging, excessive saturated fat intake, alcohol, and certain medications ( 280 ). n-3 fatty acids, such as EPA and DHA, appear to reduce plasma TG by: a) reducing VLDL production by the liver, b) accelerating chylomicron and VLDL elimination from the blood, and c) converting fatty acids to energy ( 281 ). The preparation of fish has the potential to impact on health benefits, as many methods appear to alter n-3 fatty acid content. Baking and frying tend to result in breakup of the existing chemical bonds and frying can lead to the greatest losses in n-3 fatty acid content. Table 6. n-3 Fatty
