Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


This meta-analysis also did not show an effect on LDL-C. There are two fish oil supplements (e.g. Lovaza) that have been approved by the FDA to lower TG. A large body of experimental, clinical, and epidemiologic research has explored potential benefits of EPA- and DHA-rich fish oil on cardiovascular health ( 283 , 289 , 290 , 306 , 307 ). Findings from prospective observational cohort investigations indicate that regular consumption of fatty fish (twice/wk) is associated with a significantly lower risk of cardiovascular death ( 307 , 308 ). Several randomized clinical trials have examined the effects of fish oil supplementation on nonfatal myocardial infarction, ischemic stroke, atrial fibrillation, recurrent ventricular arrhythmias, and heart failure, but results have been inconsistent ( 307 , 308 ). In the Norfolk-based European Prospective Investigation into Cancer cohort, the use of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid ( n-3 PUFA) supplements (utilized mainly cod liver oil) was associated with a lower hazard of CHD mortality in a population with low fish consumption over a 19 year period ( 309 ). Two earlier open-label trials, the Prevenzione trial ( 310 ) and the Japan EPA Lipid Intervention Study ( 311 ), found significant benefits of fish oil supplementation on CVD outcomes. The AHA has provided a recommendation to consider use of fish oil supplementation in subjects with a recent myocardial infarction or heart attack ( 312 ). There is uncertainty regarding the benefit from use of omega-3 supplementation in established CVD. The recent ALPHA OMEGA ( 313 ), OMEGA ( 314 ), and SU.FOL.OM3 ( 315 ) clinical trials did not find such benefits. To date, there is no conclusive evidence to recommend fish oil supplementation for primary or secondary prevention of CVD ( 316 ). A meta-analysis of 10 trials involving 77,917 individuals reported that omega-3 fatty acid supplementation had no significant association with coronary heart disease death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal coronary heart disease or any major vascular events ( 317 ). SAFETY CONCERNS When taken in low doses (≤3 g/day), intake of fish oil is likely to be safe for most people, including pregnant and breast-feeding women ( 318 ). There are some safety concerns when fish oil is consumed in high doses as an intake of more than 3 g per day might impact blood clotting and increase the chance of bleeding ( 318 ). Other side effects from intake of fish
