Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


as an intake of more than 3 g per day might impact blood clotting and increase the chance of bleeding ( 318 ). Other side effects from intake of fish oil can include bad breath, heartburn, nausea, loose stools, rash, and nosebleeds. Using fish oil together with antihypertensive drugs may result in a small but statistically significant reduction in blood pressure ( 319-325 ). n-3 fatty acids may affect the heart rate for subjects with a heart transplant, and high doses of fish oil might impact the immune system. While some fish such as swordfish, king mackerel, tilefish, and albacore tuna may carry a higher risk of mercury poisoning, fish oil has not been found to carry a significant risk. DIETARY GUIDELINES The AHA recommends consumption of two servings of fatty fish per week (e.g. salmon, mackerel, trout, sardines and tuna) ( 13 ). This is because these fish are high in EPA and DHA. These n-3 fatty acids, EPA and DHA, have been accepted by the AHA and Endocrine Society to help lower TG ( 326 , 327 ). FDA has authorized a qualified health claim on dietary supplements linking the consumption of EPA and DHA ( n-3 ) fatty acids to a reduction of CHD risk. U.S. health organizations recommend a daily EPA+DHA intake of 250 mg for most people and 1,000 mg for those with CVD. Higher dosages of n-3 fatty acids are required to reduce elevated TG levels (2-4 g per day) and to reduce morning stiffness and joint pain in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (at least 3 g per day). Modest decreases in blood pressure occur with significantly higher dosages of n-3 fatty acids. The 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommend consuming at least 8 ounces of seafood per week to reach an average daily intake of 250 mg per day for a total of 1,750 mg of EPA and DHA per week ( 328 ). Nuts and Seeds Nuts and seeds are functional foods of plant origin. The energy content of nuts and seeds is mainly derived from fat and protein, while the carbohydrate content is less compared to beans and legumes. Consumption of nuts in moderate amounts has been found to provide health benefits such as reducing cholesterol levels ( 329-331 ) and lowering CHD risk ( 331-333 ). Limited evidence also exists for beneficial effects on hypertension, cancer, and inflammation. The most
