Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


354 ), and peanuts ( 355 ) showed LDL-C reductions ranging from 4% to 11%. A meta-analysis of three studies, hazelnuts intake (30 g to 60 g/day) resulted in a reduction of LDL-C by ~5.8 mg/dL ( 356 ). In a review which analyzed 9 trials that added pistachios to the diet, it was reported that LDL-C/HDL-C ratio decreased with supplementation ( 357 ). In one trial that required subjects to consume pistachios daily (57 g/day ~ 3/8 cup), the non-HDL particles decreased compared with controls ( 358 ). Subjects who intake a mixture of nuts appear to have reductions in LDL-C in many studies. A pooled analysis examining the effects of various nuts on TC and LDL-C levels reported a reduction in TC and LDL-C (5% and 7%, respectively) with an average daily intake of 67 g of nuts ( 332 ). A trial with mixed almonds and/or hazelnuts (~30 g/day) resulted in ~5.8 mg/dL reduction in LDL-C ( 359 ). As in other studies, it was also noted that the cholesterol lowering effect was dose dependent, and that dose-related effects were observed in both men and women. In addition, an inverse association between cholesterol responses and BMI was seen during consumption of large quantities of nuts. A Mediterranean diet supplemented with 30 g of mixed nuts/day (15 g walnuts, 7.5 g hazelnuts, and 7.5 g almonds) showed beneficial effects on the lipid profile in the PREDIMED study ( 360 ). The addition of nuts to a Mediterranean diet may render the LDL-C particles to be less atherogenic ( 361 ). Other studies have noted that the estimated cholesterol lowering effect of nuts was greater in individuals with higher initial values of LDL-C and in those with a lower baseline BMI ( 331 ). However, not all studies noted reductions in LDL-C with intake of a nut mixture. In one Chinese study, nut consumption was not associated with significant LDL-C reductions ( 362 ). The effect of flaxseed has also been investigated. Pan et al. conducted a meta-analysis to examine the effectiveness of flaxseed and its derivatives on blood lipid profiles ( 363 ). Some of the major findings of this study were that whole flaxseed reduced TC and LDL-C by 0.21 and 0.16 mmol/L (6 and 8 mg/dL), respectively. This study noted that lignin supplements reduced TC and LDL-C by 0.28 mmol/L and 0.16 mmol/L (11 and 8
