Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


LDL-C by 0.21 and 0.16 mmol/L (6 and 8 mg/dL), respectively. This study noted that lignin supplements reduced TC and LDL-C by 0.28 mmol/L and 0.16 mmol/L (11 and 8 mg/dL) respectively while there was no significant reduction of TC or LDL-C levels observed with flaxseed oil ( 363 ). In a study with milled flaxseed, LDL-C reduction was seen in patients with PAD, who were on cholesterol lowering medications, by about 0.4 mmol/L (~15.4 mg/dL) after 6 months of flaxseed use ( 364 ). While intake of flaxseed may alter LDL-C, it does not appear to significantly shift the fecal metabolome ( 365 ). The cholesterol-lowering effects were more apparent in individuals with elevated baseline cholesterol concentrations. The functional food intervention did not result in significant changes in HDL-C or TG levels. SAFETY CONCERNS There are two major concerns associated with nut consumption, a possible weight gain ( 329 , 366 ) and allergic reactions ( 367 ). There is considerable evidence indicating that there are no adverse effects of nut consumption in moderate quantities on energy balance or body weight ( 65 , 85 ). However, nuts can cause allergies in some individuals with an estimated prevalence rate of approximately 1% in the general population ( 367 ). Allergic reactions to nuts are due to allergenic seed storage proteins that elicit specific IgE antibodies. An additional concern is potential toxicity through contamination of nuts with mycotoxins, particularly aflatoxins. Flaxseed is likely safe for most adults although adding flaxseed to the diet might increase the number of bowel movements and might also cause gastrointestinal side effects such as bloating, gas, abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea and nausea. Higher doses are likely to cause more such side effects. DIETARY GUIDELINES The 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans state that nuts and seeds can be a good source of protein and monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats ( 328 ). The 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans recognizes that eating some type of nuts (e.g. peanuts, walnuts, almonds, and pistachios) may reduce risk factors for CVD and recommend consuming unsalted nuts and seeds ( 328 ). According to the FDA, the cardiovascular risk factor reduction is limited to “almonds, hazelnuts, peanuts, pecans, some pine nuts, pistachio nuts, and walnuts… that do not exceed 4 g saturated fat per 50 g of nuts” ( 368 ). The AHA recommends eating four servings (“a small handful, 1.5 ounces,
