Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


nuts, and walnuts… that do not exceed 4 g saturated fat per 50 g of nuts” ( 368 ). The AHA recommends eating four servings (“a small handful, 1.5 ounces, of whole nuts or 2 tablespoons of nut butter”) of unsalted nuts a week. Raw or dry-roasted nuts rather than those cooked in oil are recommended. Fiber Fiber is defined as the edible carbohydrate portion of plants resistant to enzymatic digestion (e.g. hydrolysis) and absorption in the human intestine. Fiber contains various chemical compounds or biopolymers that are water soluble/more fermentable (e.g., pectins, β-glucans, oligosaccharides, resistant dextrins, inulin, guar gum, other gums, fructans) and water insoluble/less fermentable (cellulose, hemicelluloses such as arabinoxylans, lignin, waxes, chitins, resistant starch) ( 369-374 ). Fiber is found mostly in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, nuts, seeds, psyllium seeds, beans and legumes. Fiber is known for its ability to provide bulk to stool and prevent or relieve constipation. In addition, fiber provides several other significant health benefits including lowering blood cholesterol concentrations by interfering with cholesterol absorption and reabsorption of bile acids ( 375 , 376 ). Fiber from beans, oats, flaxseed or oat bran are reported to lower TC and LDL-C levels ( 377 ). They may also slow the absorption of sugar and help improve blood glucose levels ( 375 , 378 , 379 ), aid in weight loss ( 380 ), and reduce obesity ( 381 ). Fibers are generally classified into two types: soluble fibers (viscous fibers) and insoluble fibers (non-viscous fibers). Soluble fibers (e.g. hemicelluloses, pectins, guar gum, resistant starch, inulin, oligosaccharides) dissolve in water and are readily fermented to short-chain fatty acids in the large intestine. They are present in all types of peas and beans like lentils, split peas, guar beans, pinto beans, black beans, kidney beans, garbanzo beans and lima beans, as well as in oats, barley, and some fruits and vegetables like apples, oranges and carrots. Fiber from psyllium seed, an ingredient in some over-the-counter laxatives, is also part of this group. Soluble fibers are generally effective in lowering TC and LDL-C levels. Insoluble fibers contain substances/chemicals such as cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin and are present in foods such as whole-wheat flour, wheat bran, nuts, beans and vegetables (e.g. cauliflower, green beans). The skins of fruits and vegetables are good sources of insoluble fiber. Wheat dextrin (wheat bran) is another good source of insoluble fiber, and is
