Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


macronutrients (healthy fats, carbohydrates), micronutrients (vitamins and minerals), soluble fibers (β-glucans, psyllium, pectin), insoluble fibers and phytochemicals with potentially protective or disease preventive properties. A diet rich in vegetables and fruits is recommended to maintain health ( 406-409 ) . Fruits and vegetables have less calories/unit weight compared to animal-based foods and do not contribute substantially to overall energy consumption. Botanists define fruit as a part of the plant that develops from a flower and contains seeds. Avocado, beans, and tomatoes are technically fruits. A vegetable is a part of plant that is edible and includes the stems, leaves, flowers, and roots. Examples include celery (stem), lettuce (leaves), cauliflower and broccoli (buds), and beets, carrots and potatoes (roots). Vegetables are in general less sweet or tart than fruits. Health benefits of fruits and vegetables are considered to be due to the presence of bioactive components such as fiber, healthy fats, and phytochemicals ( 410 , 411 ). Fiber is present in many vegetables, fruits ( Tables 8 and 10 ). Soluble fibers are present in all types of peas and beans ( Table 9 ) and in some fruits and vegetables. Fiber-rich fruits include apples, pears, berries (e.g. strawberries) and citrus (orange, lemons). Many fruits and vegetables contain phytochemicals ( Table 11 ), also known as plant chemicals, and more than 5,000 phytochemicals have been identified. Phytochemicals have antioxidant properties and have been suggested to reduce the risk of developing several diseases such as cancer, CVD, neurodegenerative diseases and immunological disorders. Phytochemicals can be classified into broad categories such as phenolics, carotenoids, alkaloids, organonitrogen compounds, organosulfur compounds, and phytosterols. Phenolics, compounds containing aromatic rings with one or more hydroxyl groups, are abundant compounds found in vegetables and fruits. Phenolics include phenolic acids, flavonoids, stilbenes, coumarins, and tannins ( 412-414 ). Phenolic acids account for approximately 1/3 of the phenolics in our diet and the remaining 2/3 originate from flavonoids ( 412 ). Wild blueberry and blackberry have the highest total phenolic content, followed by pomegranate, cranberry, blueberry, plum, raspberry, strawberry, red grape, and apple. Some of the best studied polyphenol-rich foods are tea, blueberries, extra-virgin olive oil, red wine, citrus fruits, hibiscus tea, dark chocolate, coffee, turmeric and other herbs and spices. Apples contribute approximately a third of fruit phenolics consumed by Americans. Carotenoids are yellow, orange, and red pigments synthesized by plants. The most common carotenoids are α-carotene, β-carotene,
