Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


and spices. Apples contribute approximately a third of fruit phenolics consumed by Americans. Carotenoids are yellow, orange, and red pigments synthesized by plants. The most common carotenoids are α-carotene, β-carotene, β-cryptoxanthin, lutein, zeaxanthin, and lycopene. Tomatoes are known to contain lycopene and allicin is present in garlic. Phytosterols include sterols and stanols with a similar chemical structure to cholesterol. A high concentration of phytosterols is found in plant products such as unrefined vegetable oils (including nut and olive oils), legumes, nuts, and seeds while modest amounts are found in cereal grains, fruits, and vegetables ( Table 10 ). The most commonly occurring phytosterols in the human diet are β-sitosterol, campesterol and stigmasterol. The intake of naturally occurring phytosterols through diet ranges between ~150–450 mg/day. Several potential mechanisms have been proposed to explain the action of bioactive components present in vegetables and fruits ( 415 , 416 ). Phytochemicals compete with cholesterol for inclusion/absorption in micelles within the intestinal lumen and impact on cholesterol absorption ( 417 ). POTENTIAL HEALTH BENEFITS Fruits and vegetables rich in fiber or phytochemicals such as plant stanols and sterols may be helpful in lowering TC and LDL-C levels ( 418-420 ). Other reported health benefits include a lower risk of developing cataracts and age-related functional decline ( 406 , 408 , 409 ). Health benefits are reported to vary significantly depending on the type of bioactive components present, consumption quantity or intake levels and frequency of consumption. Four trials have examined fruit and vegetable consumption at 6 or 12 months ( 421-424 ). The pooled analysis (970 participants) showed no effect of the intervention on TC levels ( 425 ). Two trials over 12 months examining the effects of fruits and vegetables on LDL- C showed a small, non-significant reduction ( 421 , 424 ). No significant increase in HDL-C levels was seen ( 421 , 424 , 425 ). Three studies reported a slight but non-significant increase in TG ( 421 , 423-425 ).The Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) study ( 426-429 ) examined the effect of a diet rich in fruits, vegetables, and low-fat dairy products on blood pressure and cholesterol levels, and reported a modest decrease in TC and LDL-C. HDL-C levels remain unaltered or decreased marginally, and no significant changes in TG were observed. The net reductions in TC and LDL-C in men were borderline greater than in women by
