Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


levels remain unaltered or decreased marginally, and no significant changes in TG were observed. The net reductions in TC and LDL-C in men were borderline greater than in women by 0.27 mmol/L, or 10.3 mg/dL. There are limited studies on individual fruit and vegetables and their effects on the lipid profile. Ravn-Haren et al. investigated the effect of whole apples, apple-pomace, and clear and cloudy apple juices (500 mL/day) on lipoproteins and blood pressure ( 430 ). They reported lower LDL-C levels by consumption of whole apple (6.7%), pomace (7.9%) and cloudy juice (2.2%), that LDL-C increased by 6.9% with intake of clear juice compared to whole apples and pomace, and that there was no effect on HDL-C, TG, weight, waist-to-hip ratio or blood pressure. A randomized controlled intervention trial to assess the effects of consumption of tomato-based foods on CVD risk factors showed no significant changes in TC, LDL-C, HDL-C or TG ( 431 ). In one meta-analysis it was noted that TC and LDL-C were not significantly different on low doses of lycopene levels, but both decreased by about 10% with high dose of lycopene (>25 mg day). There was no significant difference at either dose for HDL-C or TG levels ( 432 ). Finley et al. reported that pinto beans consumption lowered TC by ~8% in healthy individuals and by 4% in pre-metabolic syndrome subjects. Bean consumption lowered HDL-C concentration by 4% and LDL-C concentration by 8% ( 433 ). Avocado contains a significant amount of oleic acid (MUFA) and phytosterols (e.g. β-sitosterol, campesterol) ( 434 ). As the avocado ripens, the fat ratios change with subsequent increases in unsaturated fats (MUFA > PUFA) and decreases in saturated fat. Results from clinical studies on the effects of avocado are mixed with an increase, a decrease or no effect on HDL-C noted ( 435 , 436 ). Some studies have suggested a limited TG-lowering effect with consumption of avocados ( 437 , 438 ) . The capsicum group of vegetables includes bell peppers, jalapenos, cayenne and other hot peppers. Capsicum contains many phytochemicals, including capsaicinoids (e.g. capsaicin, dihydrocapsaicin, capsiate), carotenoids (e.g. capsanthin, β-carotene), phenolics (hydroxycinnamic acids, coumaric and caffeic acid derivatives), quercetin glycosides and lignans. Studies on the capsicum group of vegetables have not found any clear clinical evidence of a lowering effect on TC or LDL-C levels. Eggplant and okra contain several bioactive phytochemicals compounds. While pre-clinical
