Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


capsicum group of vegetables have not found any clear clinical evidence of a lowering effect on TC or LDL-C levels. Eggplant and okra contain several bioactive phytochemicals compounds. While pre-clinical studies with eggplant seemed to suggest that some hypolipidemic potential, human studies have shown mixed results. Studies with extracts of eggplant do not appear to lower lipids ( 439-441 ). There is some recent but limited preclinical data suggesting that okra or okra extracts may lower LDL-C. The cucurbitaceae family of vegetables (e.g. bottle gourd, snake gourd, pumpkins, butternut squash, acorn squash, summer squash, winter squash, cucumbers, bitter melon and chayote) is rich in carotenoids and other phytochemicals; however, it is unclear if the cortex from the fruits in the family has any effects on lipid profile. There is limited experience from clinical studies, although results from some pre-clinical studies suggest that pumpkin seeds may lower LDL-C concentration. Pre-clinical studies also suggest a lipid-lowering effect by bitter melon. Studies with cranberries show mixed results on HDL-C with some showing an increase and some unchanged levels ( 442-447 ). Studies on blueberries are limited. In pre-clinical studies, consumption of blueberries led to alterations in plasma lipid concentrations (decreases in TC and LDL-C and increases in HDL-C) ( 448 ). However, there are few clinical studies on blueberries, and they seem to suggest there may be a modest effect on lowering LDL-C ( 449 ). Several studies have indicated that phytosterols at higher doses can lower LDL-C concentration significantly. However, phytosterol intake at low doses, typically associated with food, may have less pronounced effects. The maximum LDL-C lowering efficacy is reported at an intake of approximately 3 g/day ( 24 , 450-452 ). In a recent review of 84 studies, Demonty et al. reported a dose-dependent LDL-C lowering effect of phytosterols and that a dose of 3 g/day lowered LDL-C by 11% (9% at a dose of 2 g/day) ( 452 ). Based on findings like these, the US National Cholesterol Education Program recommends a phytosterol intake of 2 g/day to enhance lowering of LDL-C concentration ( 24 , 450 , 451 , 453-457 ). In a meta-analysis that included 91,379 men, 129,701 women, and 5,007 CHD events, results demonstrated a 7% lower CHD risk for each additional fruit serving per day ( 415 ). CHD risk reduction was also evaluated as a part of nutritional recommendation interventional studies on vegetables and
