Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


lower CHD risk for each additional fruit serving per day ( 415 ). CHD risk reduction was also evaluated as a part of nutritional recommendation interventional studies on vegetables and fruits ( 458 , 459 ). SAFETY CONCERNS Greater consumption of fruit juice has been associated with a higher risk of type 2 diabetes ( 460 ) . DIETARY GUIDELINES A 2010 study found that the average consumption of fruits and vegetables in the U.S. was 3.6 servings (1.4 servings of fruits and 2.2 servings of vegetables) per person per day. The AHA recommends intake of at least 4 to 5 servings of vegetables and fruits (2 to 4 servings of fruits per day and 3 to 5 servings of vegetables) per day. Their current position is that fruits and vegetables in general contain nutrients that may help prevent heart disease. The AHA suggests that there needs to be more research done on the impact of individual phytochemicals (e.g. plant sterols, flavonoids, sulfur-based compounds) to better assess the claims on lowering individual cardiovascular risk factors. The 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommend that most people, based on a 2000-kcal diet, should consume at least 9 servings of fruits and vegetables per day (4 servings of fruits and 5 servings of vegetables). Whole Grains Whole grains include barley, brown rice, buckwheat, bulgur (cracked wheat), millet, oatmeal and wild rice. They contain macronutrients such as complex carbohydrates and protein as well as bioactive components such as fiber, vitamins, antioxidants, and trace minerals ( 461 ). Whole grains are defined by the American Association of Cereal Chemists International and the FDA as consisting of the “intact, ground, cracked or flaked fruit of the grain whose principal components, the starchy endosperm, germ and bran are present in the same relative proportions as they exist in the intact grain”, and they are an important source of fiber although levels can vary between sources ( Table 12 ). For example, whole wheat contains the highest amount of fiber and brown rice contains among the least. Whole grains contain ~80% more dietary fiber than refined grains, as the latter are milled, a process that removes bran and germ. The refining process also removes bioactive components such as antioxidants, phytochemicals, and minerals. Refined grains include white flour, white rice, white bread and corn flower. Health benefits ascribed to whole grains are mainly due to the presence of fiber
