Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


rice are monacolin K (or lovastatin) and related substances, all of which are HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors ( 481 ). Red yeast rice also contains sterols, isoflavones, and MUFA. There are several societies such as Health Canada, Whole Grains Council, FDA and German Nutrition Society that have given interim support to the claim that there are lipid-lowering effects of whole grains ( 482-485 ). In a RCT called the BRAVO study, a brown rice diet lowered TC and LDL-C in Japanese with metabolic syndrome ( 486 ). Another RCT noted there was no significant difference in TC and LDL-C between the consumption of brown rice vs. white rice ( 487 ). In the Nurses’ Health Study, women who ate whole-grain products regularly showed a 30% less risk for heart attack or cardiovascular mortality compared to women who ate whole grains less frequently ( 387 ). A recent meta-analysis of seven studies showed that CVD (heart attack, stroke or need for a cardiac intervention) was 21% less likely in subjects consuming 2.5 or more servings of whole-grain foods per day compared with those who consumed less than 2 servings per day ( 488 , 489 ). However, the European Food Safety Authority and American Society for Nutrition have expressed some caution regarding claims for whole grains due to variability in definitions across studies ( 490 ). The potential mechanisms for whole grain health benefits have been postulated in several papers ( 491 ). DIETARY GUIDELINES The Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommends that individuals should reduce the intake of refined grains. They recommend that some refined grains should be replaced with whole grains with at least half of all grains should be whole grains ( 328 ). The Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommends that product labels with the words “whole” or “whole grain” before the grain ingredient’s name can be used to identify foods with whole grains ( 328 ). The AHA recommends 6 to 8 servings of grain foods a day with at least 3 or more whole grains per day. The 2005 Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommend that individuals should “consume 3 or more ounce-equivalents of whole grain products per day, with the rest of the recommended grains coming from enriched or whole-grain products. In general, at least half of the grains should come from whole grains.” The 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans continue to support these recommendations. Fortified/Enriched Functional Foods
