Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


mmol/L) (11.7mg/dl) ( 514 ). Some individuals may need to be on multiple lipid lowering medications to have plant sterols impact the lipid profile. One study noted that individuals with higher rates of synthesis of cholesterol (e.g. noted by lathosterol-to-cholesterol ratio) appear to be less responsive to plant sterols/stanols ( 515 ). Individuals with familial hypercholesterolemia needed to be on both simvastatin and ezetimibe and not simvastatin alone for plant sterol supplementation to be beneficial in familial hypercholesterolemia ( 516 ). DIETARY GUIDELINES The European Food Safety Association (EFSA) noted “A clinically significant LDL-cholesterol lowering effect of about 10% can be achieved by a daily intake of 2 g of phytosterols in an appropriate food (e.g. fat spreads). The magnitude of the cholesterol-lowering effect may differ according to the food matrix” ( 517 ). An advisory from the Nutrition Committee of the AHA reviewed the evidence on food containing plant sterol or stanol esters. They concluded that while they are a promising dietary intervention, these products should undergo longer term studies to assess if there are adverse effects. The AHA does not recommend routine by the general population and their use should be reserved for adults with hypercholesterolemia or an atherosclerotic event who require lowering of total and LDL-C levels ( 518 ). Spices/Garlic Garlic has been used as both food and medicine in many cultures for thousands of years. Garlic (Allium sativum) is a member of the Amaryllis (lily) family, related to onions, shallots, chives and leeks. The characteristic flavor and pungency of garlic are due to an abundance of oil- and water-soluble sulfur-containing elements, likely responsible for any medicinal effects ascribed to this plant. Allicin is unstable, and changes chemically during processing. POTENTAIL HEALTH BENEFITS Garlic has been advocated to lower TC concentrations and blood pressure, but results have not been consistent ( 503 , 519-522 ). A meta-analysis of 14 studies suggested that garlic can result in reductions in both TC and LDL-C (standardized mean difference of -1.26 and -1.07, respectively) ( 523 ). A randomized trial included 192 participants with LDL-C concentrations ranging from 130 to 190 mg/dL (3.36 to 4.91 mmol/L) and three different garlic preparations (raw, powdered, and aged garlic extracts) where patients were treated with a daily dose approximately equivalent to one 4 g clove for six months (6 days/week). The study found that none of the preparations of garlic had a significant
