Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


treated with a daily dose approximately equivalent to one 4 g clove for six months (6 days/week). The study found that none of the preparations of garlic had a significant effect on LDL-C or other lipid levels ( 524 ). Several other studies also suggest that there was no significant effect of garlic on TC or LDL-C concentration ( 520 , 521 , 524 , 525 ) . Schwingshackl et al. evaluated multiple meta-analyses to better understand the impact of garlic on lipids. While many meta-analyses did suggest a positive impact of garlic on lipids, Schwingshackl et al. noted that it was difficult to reach a clear conclusion because of the substantial heterogeneity among the trials in the various meta-analyses ( 526 ). SAFETY CONCERNS Garlic can cause bad breath, a burning sensation in the mouth or stomach, heartburn, gas, nausea, vomiting, body odor and diarrhea. Side effects are often worse with raw garlic. There have been reports of bleeding after surgery in people who have taken garlic. Asthma has been reported in people working with garlic, and other allergic reactions are possible. Garlic can irritate the gastrointestinal tract. Beverages TEA Tea is consumed in different parts of the world as green, black or oolong tea. Western countries consume mostly black tea and Asian countries, mainly Japan and China, consume green tea and black tea. Oolong tea, which is produced by partial fermentations, is consumed mainly in southern China. Major components of tea include polyphenols (catechins), caffeine, amino acids, vitamins, flavonoids, polysaccharides and fluorine. Other constituents are carbohydrates and traces of minerals. Tea polyphenols are comprised largely of the epicatechin group of flavanols and catechins and their dimers (theaflavins) and polymers (thearubigins) have been identified as major tea polyphenols. Processing of black tea results in chemical changes and the oxidation process can lower flavonoids to <10%. Differences in flavonoid composition (e.g. relative levels of catechins and epicatechins and their oxidized condensation products) may result in differences in physiological effects between black and green tea. Green and black tea may lead to mild reductions in TC and LDL-C. Green tea contains many catechins (e.g. epigallocatechin-3-gallate) that appear to influence lipid metabolism in animal models (e.g. potential increases in bile acid production and upregulation of LDL- receptors in liver, suppression of PCSK9) ( 527 , 528 ). The association between catechins and TC and LDL-C reduction in humans may have mild to
