Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


and upregulation of LDL- receptors in liver, suppression of PCSK9) ( 527 , 528 ). The association between catechins and TC and LDL-C reduction in humans may have mild to moderate associations in human studies ( 529 ). In recent meta-analyses of RCTs, green tea was shown to have a mild reduction in TC (~5 mg/dL) and LDL-C (~7 to 9 mg/dL) levels ( 527 , 530 ). Some observational studies have reported that habitual intake of black tea is associated with relatively lower TC concentrations ( 531-533 ). However, clinical trials results evaluating the effects of black tea on TC have been inconsistent with some studies reporting no significant change in lipid profile of borderline hypercholesterolemic subjects ( 533-537 ). A meta-analysis, which evaluated the effect of consumption of black tea, reported that there was a mild reduction in LDL-C (~5 mg/dL) in healthy subjects but not those with established coronary artery disease ( 538 ). Meta-analyses have reported that green tea and black tea mildly reduced TC and LDL-C levels but did not find a significant effect on HDL-C or TG levels ( 539-541 ). With regard to safety concerns, no significant side-effects or toxicity have been reported with green tea consumption. The stimulatory effect of green tea is less than that of coffee ( 542 ). A few cases of liver toxicity have been reported associated with consumption of large quantities of green tea or green tea extract. However, the incidence of this adverse effect is extremely low. Since green tea may interfere with the absorption of iron supplements, some have suggested that iron supplements should not be ingested together with green tea components ( 543 ). However, some studies did not find a significant correlation between green tea intake and iron levels ( 544 ). COFFEE Coffee, a complex chemical mixture, including caffeine, carbohydrates, lipids, amino acids, vitamins, minerals, alkaloids and polyphenols is one of the most widely consumed beverages in the world. Consumption of coffee may affect LDL-C concentration, and some studies have suggested that fat soluble molecules coffee (e.g. diterpenes such as cafestol and kahweol) can alter TC and LDL-C concentrations ( 545-548 ). Some studies have suggested that the levels of lipid altering molecules may be influenced by how coffee is prepared (greater amounts noted in preparations with boiled/unfiltered coffee and smaller amounts in brewed/filtered coffee) ( 549 ). Some have surmised that
