Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


molecules may be influenced by how coffee is prepared (greater amounts noted in preparations with boiled/unfiltered coffee and smaller amounts in brewed/filtered coffee) ( 549 ). Some have surmised that the filter (e.g. filter paper) may retain oil droplets containing diterpenes from ground coffee while unfiltered coffee allows for these oils to be present in the coffee. In one meta-analysis, it was found that consumption of unfiltered, boiled coffee dose-dependently increased TC and LDL-C concentrations (23 mg/dL and 14 mg/dL, respectively), while consumption of filtered coffee resulted in only small changes (TC by 3 mg/dL and no effect on LDL-C concentration) ( 550 ). The Health Professionals Follow-up Study and the Nurses’ Health Study cohort with 130,000 subjects reported filtered coffee did not impact TC, LDL-C and HDL-C levels ( 551 ). The consumption of >2 cups of coffee prepared through a pressure-based method (e.g. boiling water forced through a middle chamber that contains coffee grounds separated by a filter; the resultant coffee has limited exposure time to coffee grounds as in non-pressurized filtered coffee) did not lead to significant alterations in TC, LDL-C and HDL-C levels in an Italian Cohort ( 552 ). In a study from a Brazilian study cohort, the consumption of filtered coffee resulted in no alterations in TC, LDL-C and HDL-C levels ( 553 ). The differential effects from various coffee preparations on TC and LDL-C were also noted also in other clinical trials and meta-analysis ( 554-558 ). In another trial, coffee low in diterpenes did not result in alterations in TC, LDL-C and HDL-C levels ( 559 ). COCOA PRODUCTS Cocoa is rich in polyphenols. Cocoa is the non-fat component of finely ground cocoa beans that is used to produce chocolate ( 560 ). A meta-analysis examining the effects of flavanol-rich cocoa products or dark chocolate on the lipid profile reported that intervention with dark chocolate/cocoa products significantly reduced LDL-C and TC levels by about 6 mg/dL, respectively, with no statistically significant effects on HDL-C levels ( 561 ). The trend toward lowering of LDL (with various magnitudes of LDL-C reductions) was seen in other clinical trials or meta-analysis ( 562-565 ). In other trials, HDL-C levels were increased with chocolate consumption ( 564-567 ). A study found that combination of plant sterols with dark chocolate can lead to mild reductions in LDL-C concentration ( 568 ). ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES/WINE The potential beneficial effect
