Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


564-567 ). A study found that combination of plant sterols with dark chocolate can lead to mild reductions in LDL-C concentration ( 568 ). ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES/WINE The potential beneficial effect of wine intake on cardiovascular risk and mortality has been branded as the “French Paradox”, as lower rates of heart disease was observed in France despite a diet rich in butter and cheese. Several studies have been undertaken to explore any potential health benefits of wine. On balance, these studies suggest that CHD risk is lower by about 20-40% in individuals that consume low- to medium-quantities of wine compared to non- drinkers ( 569-571 ). Moderate alcohol consumption has also been associated with other health benefits such as better insulin sensitivity and reduced thrombotic risk ( 572 ). Wine contains a number of constituents beyond alcohol, such as sugars (glucose, fructose), other carbohydrates (pectins and glucans), organic acids (tartaric and malic acids), phytochemicals (phenolics, anthocyanins, tannins, resveratrol), nitrogenous compounds (proteins, amino acids and ammonium salts) and inorganic substances (potassium iron and copper salts). The phenolic content of a red wine generally varies between 1,000 to 3,500 mg/L Gallic Acid Equivalent (GAE). The highest concentrations of grape polyphenols are found in the skin, stems, and seeds. Although not fully understood, several explanations have been proposed to explain the lower risk of heart disease observed in individuals with low to moderate alcohol consumption. One plausible explanation is an increase in HDL-C levels ( 572 ), while other potential mechanisms involve the role of phytochemicals ( 572-574 ). Beyond reduction of LDL-C concentration, effects of phytochemicals include an improved endothelial function, lower blood pressure, inhibition of platelet aggregation, reduced inflammation and activation of proteins preventing cell senescence, e.g. sirtuin 1 ( 573 ). Several studies have reported that people who drink wine in moderation have lower risk of heart disease, compared to those who do not drink wine ( 569 , 570 , 575 ). Several observational and clinical studies have reported strong positive relationships between wine consumption and HDL-C; an increase of HDL-C by about 12% was reported with one to two drinks per day ( 569 , 575-581 ). The degree of effect of wine on HDL-C seems to vary in other studies. In a study of individuals with T2DM, red wine increased HDL-C levels by ~2.0 mg/dL ( 582 ). In an analysis of 10,893 subjects from the Atherosclerosis Risk
