Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


other studies. In a study of individuals with T2DM, red wine increased HDL-C levels by ~2.0 mg/dL ( 582 ). In an analysis of 10,893 subjects from the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) study, it was noted that low-to-moderate alcohol consumption resulted in mild reductions of TG, TC, LDL-C, sdLDL-C, and apoB levels and increases in HDL2-C ( 583 ). In another study, HDL-C did not increase with consumption of wine ( 584 ). The ability of alcohol to increase HDL-C levels consistently needs further exploration. The effects of TG and TC with moderate alcohol intake is not consistent across studies. However, no clinical trial has provided solid evidence that alcohol could be used to increase HDL-C levels. Some studies showed increasing TG levels with alcohol consumption, likely due to the relatively high caloric level of alcohol (7 kcal/g) ( 585-587 ). Some studies have reported a positive association between alcohol and TC ( 588 ) while others found no such association ( 569 ). In a study of 3,897 individuals with metabolic syndrome in the PREDIMED, they found no clear association between red wine consumption (>1 drink/day) and TG levels ( 589 ). In one cross-sectional prospective study, the interrelationship between alcohol intake, cigarette smoking, body weight and blood lipid concentrations was examined ( 585 ). The study did not find an association between alcohol intake and TC levels, but a strong positive relation was observed between alcohol consumption and HDL-C levels, and further, a significant increase in TG levels was observed in heavy drinkers. A meta-analysis of the effects of alcohol consumption (30 g/day) on blood lipids was conducted in people with no prior history of chronic disease and no history of alcohol dependence ( 590-594 ). Findings included an increase of HDL-C by about 4 mg/dL and of apoA1 by about 9 mg/dL, an increase in TG by about 6 mg/dL, and a decrease in fibrinogen by 7.5 mg/dL. The relationship between alcohol consumption and prevalence of metabolic syndrome was investigated in Japanese men and women ( 578 ). The results of the study indicate an increase in HDL-C levels with increasing alcohol consumption. No significant change in TG was observed in light drinkers. Another study evaluated the association between alcohol consumption and blood lipid levels in hypertensive men and reported increases in HDL-C cholesterol and TG with an unchanged TG/HDL-C ratio with an increase in alcohol
