Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


the association between alcohol consumption and blood lipid levels in hypertensive men and reported increases in HDL-C cholesterol and TG with an unchanged TG/HDL-C ratio with an increase in alcohol consumption [after adjusting for demographic and dietary factors in heavy (≥30 g/day) drinkers] ( 587 ). Elevated TG levels can be seen with excess alcohol intake. Alcohol consumption is thought to increase the level of fatty acid synthesis and decrease the degree of fatty acid oxidation, leading to increased hepatic VLDL TG secretion. The impact of alcohol intake on TG can vary between individuals due to genetic variability and amount of alcohol imbibed ( 595 , 596 ). Excessive alcohol intake has substantial negative health effects, including risk of cirrhosis of the liver, hypertension, stroke, type 2 diabetes, cancer of the upper gastrointestinal tract and colon, risk of injury and tendency to violence. Excessive drinking over time is associated with increased body weight and can impair short-and long-term cognitive function. Breastfeeding women should be very cautious about drinking alcohol. The 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans suggested that if alcohol is consumed at all, it should be consumed in moderation up to one drink per day for women and two drinks per day for men and only by adults of legal drinking age. Vitamins Vitamins, in trace amounts, are needed to perform vital cellular functions. Vitamins A, D, E, K and CoQ10 are fat soluble vitamins, while vitamins B1 (thiamine), vitamin B2 (riboflavin), vitamin B3 (niacin), vitamin B6 (pyridoxine), vitamin B12 (cobalamin), folic acid, biotin, and panthenoic acid are classified as B complex water-soluble vitamins. As vitamins cannot be synthesized, the levels of vitamins in the body can vary and can influence maintenance of health and disease states. In this section, we focus on effects of vitamins on lipid metabolism. WATER-SOLUBLE VITAMINS Vitamin B1, thiamine, is water soluble, absorbed from the diet in the small intestine (jejunum and ileum) and transported bound to albumin. It has limited tissue storage and frequent dietary intake is required. Thiamine can act as cofactor for enzymes involved in amino acid and carbohydrate metabolism, and influences several pathways, including the conversion of pyruvate to acetyl CoA, synthesis of thiamine pyrophosphate and thiamine monophosphate and indirectly affect transketolase activity and pentose phosphate pathway reactions. Some have suggested that thiamine could indirectly influence hexosamine pathway intermediates, potentially affecting lipoprotein lipase. However, there are no randomized clinical studies to
