Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


transketolase activity and pentose phosphate pathway reactions. Some have suggested that thiamine could indirectly influence hexosamine pathway intermediates, potentially affecting lipoprotein lipase. However, there are no randomized clinical studies to suggest thiamine supplementation can improve LDL-C or TG levels. Riboflavin (vitamin B2) is a water-soluble protein absorbed in the proximal small intestine. In the liver, kidney, and heart, riboflavin undergoes phosphorylation reactions and is converted to flavin mononucleotide (FMN) and flavin-adenine dinucleotide (FAD). Proteins that interact with FMN and FAD are considered flavoproteins, and FMN or FAD may also be part of coenzyme-flavin complexes. Flavins and associated proteins are involved in electron transfer reactions that catalyze oxidation-reduction reactions in various metabolic pathways including carbohydrate metabolism, energy metabolism, lipid metabolism, and amino acid metabolism. Flavins also play a role in fatty acid desaturation (e.g. fatty acid oxidation, beta oxidation) and formation of phospholipids ( 597 ). In addition, flavins can also play a role in vitamin metabolism (e.g. biosynthesis of ascorbic acid and conversion of vitamin K to its active form), another potential mechanism to affect lipid metabolism. However, riboflavin deficiency has not been reported to result in clinically significant LDL-C, HDL-C, or TG abnormalities. Further, there are no randomized clinical studies to suggest an impact of thiamine supplementation on LDL-C or TG levels. Panthothenic acid (Vitamin B5) is a water-soluble vitamin present as a component of coenzyme A and involved in fatty acid synthesis. Animal studies report that low pantothenic acid can lead to increased TG, cholesterol, and LDL-C levels. ( 598 , 599 ). There are limited human studies on the effect of vitamin B5 on the lipid profile. To date, a mild reduction in TC and LDL-C is reported in two short studies ( 600 , 601 ). Biotin is a water-soluble vitamin that acts as a co-enzyme in carboxylation reactions. Some of these reactions are carried out by enzymes that can affect lipid metabolism (e.g. acetyl CoA carboxylase, pyruvate carboxylase, propionyl CoA carboxylase). Biotin deficiency can lead to increased levels of propionyl CoA, potentially resulting in higher levels of odd-chain fatty acids and other defects in metabolism of long-chain fatty acids. While biotin deficiency can be present in patients with inborn errors of metabolism, biotin deficiency is rare as it is present in many types of food. In addition, biotin is produced in large quantities by gut bacteria, although biotin deficiency can occur during long-term parenteral nutrition.
