Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


rare as it is present in many types of food. In addition, biotin is produced in large quantities by gut bacteria, although biotin deficiency can occur during long-term parenteral nutrition. At present, any impact of biotin on lipids in individuals without biotin deficiency remains unknown. In summary, vitamins B1 (thiamine), vitamin B2 (riboflavin), biotin or panthenoic acid have not been to affect levels of LDL-C, TG, or TC. While there is no evidence that supplementation with these will improve the lipid profile, it is important to be aware of daily recommended intakes. The recommended intake for thiamine is 1.1 mg/day for women and 1.2 mg/day for men, while corresponding numbers for riboflavin is 1.1 mg and 1.3 mg daily per RDA guideline. There is no clear recommendation for the daily intake of pantothenic acid or biotin. There is no known toxicity due to excess intake of thiamine, riboflavin, pantothenic acid or biotin. Vitamin B6, B12, and folic acid impact on lipid metabolic pathways although their effects do not seem to result in significant lipid profile changes. The co-enzyme pyridoxal-5-phophate is the active form of vitamin B6 and its formation requires riboflavin. It plays a role in decarboxylation and transamination of amino acids, synthesis of niacin from tryptophan, neurotransmitter synthesis, gluconeogenesis, heme biosynthesis, sphingolipids and steroid hormone modulation. Through the synthesis of niacin from tryptophan, vitamin B6 indirectly affect VLDL metabolism and subsequently TG or LDL-C levels. It is suggested to indirectly influence cholesterol metabolism through advanced glycation and lipoxidation end-products ( 602-604 ). Animal models with vitamin B6 deficiency display mild hypercholesterolemia and treatment with vitamin B6 reduced cholesterol levels ( 605-607 ). Both in vitro and animal studies have noted that severe vitamin B-6 deficiency can affect PUFAs by altering metabolism of omega-3 fatty acids from linolenic acid form to the functional forms eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid ( 608-611 ). It has also been noted that vitamin B6 deficiency can lead to elevations in plasma homocysteine partly through inhibition of cystathionine-β-synthase. Studies in humans offer a mixed and incomplete picture regarding any benefit of vitamin B6 replacement with regard to cholesterol and PUFAs. Some studies noted mild cholesterol improvements in vitamin B6 deficient individuals ( 612-614 ). In individuals without vitamin B6 deficiency, no lipid lowering effect of vitamin B6 was noted ( 615 ). While there is some evidence that suggests vitamin B6 status could influence cholesterol
