Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


individuals without vitamin B6 deficiency, no lipid lowering effect of vitamin B6 was noted ( 615 ). While there is some evidence that suggests vitamin B6 status could influence cholesterol metabolism, there is no clear consensus on any effect on cholesterol under normal vitamin B6 conditions. In one study on vitamin B6 deficiency, there appeared to be small decreases in n-3 and n-6 PUFA concentrations ( 616 ). However, another study did not show improvement in PUFAs with vitamin B6 replacement ( 617 , 618 ). While both animal and human studies indicate that vitamin B6 deficiency can lead to the accumulation of S-adenosylhomocysteine and increased serum homocysteine levels, increases in TC, LDL-C, or TG levels are not reported and it has not yet been elucidated whether supplementation with vitamin B6 is effective for the primary prevention of CVD. In multicenter trials such as the Heart Outcomes Prevention Evaluation 2 Study (HOPE) and the Norwegian Vitamin trial (NORVIT), Vitamins and Thrombosis (VITRO) and in meta-analyses, vitamin B6 supplementation did not reduce the risk of recurrent major CVD events (e.g. myocardial infarction, stroke, sudden death) ( 619-623 ). Vitamin B12 is important through demethylation from methyl-tetrahydrofolate (5MTHF) to homocysteine to form methionine, in turn converted to s-adenosylmethionine. Vitamin B12 deficiency classically can result in impaired formation of tetrahydrofolate, reduced methionine levels, and subsequently impaired synthesis of DNA and abnormal maturation of granulocytic and megakaryocytic lineages due to inadequate conversion of deoxyuridylate to thymidylate. Clinically this can present as megaloblastic anemia. Vitamin B12 is also important for the isomerization of methylmalonyl-CoA to succinyl-CoA, important for catabolism of odd chain fatty acids and cholesterol. In addition, vitamin B12 deficiency is thought to increase odd chain fatty acids and methylmalonic acid in tissues such as liver and neural tissue. This pathway has not been shown in animal models to affect the lipid profile. While a small number of studies have suggested a predisposition of maternal low vitamin B12 levels for higher offspring TC and LDL-C levels, there are no clinical trials in non-pregnant subjects that suggest that TC , LDL-C or TG can influenced by vitamin B12 ( 624 , 625 ). Folic acid plays an important role in synthesis of DNA. Folic acid or folate is initially converted to tetrahydrofolic acid (THF) and subsequently to 5-MTHF, a substrate for the cobalamin-dependent process to transfer the methyl group to homocysteine. THF also plays an
