Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


or folate is initially converted to tetrahydrofolic acid (THF) and subsequently to 5-MTHF, a substrate for the cobalamin-dependent process to transfer the methyl group to homocysteine. THF also plays an important role as a co-enzyme in the metabolism of amino acids (e.g. serine, tryptophan, histidine catabolism), and synthesis of purines and pyrimidines. Folate has not been shown to directly impact lipid metabolism. Deficiencies in folate and vitamin B12 can have adverse effects. Cobalamin deficiency can lead to increased homocysteine and reduced methionine levels, impaired formation of THF, and impaired DNA synthesis. Folate deficiency can result in decreased DNA synthesis, decreased catabolism of some amino acids, increased homocysteine and reduced methionine levels. Methionine is indirectly required for conversion of phosphatidylethanolamine to phosphatidylcholine (PC), a component of VLDL particles. While higher homocysteine levels could impact PC levels and secondarily VLDL formation, it has not been shown to result in significant changes to serum lipids in animal models. In clinical studies (e.g. Nurses’ Health Study) and meta-analyses, increased homocysteine levels were associated with increased cardiovascular risk ( 590 , 626 , 627 ). However lowering homocysteine levels with B vitamins and folate does not appear to reduce this risk ( 619 , 621 , 628-632 ). NIACIN Niacin (vitamin B3) is important for formation of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) and NAD phosphate (NADP) that plays an important role in fatty acid synthesis. While nicotinamide is a common form of niacin, it does not have the lipid lowering properties of nicotinic acid. Nicotinic acid is thought to help modulate hepatic production of VLDL and several trials have shown that niacin can raise low HDL-C levels with reductions in TG, Lp(a), and, at higher doses, LDL-C levels ( 633-640 ). The effect of niacin on reduction of CVD/atherosclerosis is less clear. In an early trial, the Coronary Drug Project, niacin was noted to influence the incidence of nonfatal MI and stroke ( 641 , 642 ). Further, combination studies with fibrates, colestipol, and statins noted some reductions in progression of atherosclerosis/CV events ( 643-645 ). However, not all trials have shown reductions in CVD events. The Atherothrombosis Intervention in Metabolic Syndrome with Low HDL/High TG: Impact on Global Health (AIM-HIGH; simvastatin + ezetimibe + niacin vs simvastatin + niacin) trial and HPS2-THRIVE Collaborative Group (HPS2-THRIVE; simvastatin + ezetimibe + niacin /laropiprant vs simvastatin + niacin /laropiprant) did not show a significant decrease in composite of
