Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


vs simvastatin + niacin) trial and HPS2-THRIVE Collaborative Group (HPS2-THRIVE; simvastatin + ezetimibe + niacin /laropiprant vs simvastatin + niacin /laropiprant) did not show a significant decrease in composite of CHD death, nonfatal MI, ischemic stroke, or hospitalization for acute coronary syndrome. Of the B complex vitamins only niacin appears to consistently affect the lipid profile. The Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) of vitamin B6 is 1.3 -1.7 mg daily for men and 1.3 -1.5 mg daily for women and dietary sources are cereals, beans, leafy green vegetables, fruits (e.g. papayas, oranges, cantaloupe) and poultry, and fish. Vitamin B12 is present in animal products and the Western diet can contain up to 5 to 7 µg of cobalamin per day. The RDA for is 2.6 µg/day, and a serum cobalamin level >300 ng/L is considered normal. The daily folate requirement for adults is estimated to be approximately 50 µg/day. Fortification of breakfast cereals, flour, etc. can add significant amounts of folic acid to the diet. The RDA of niacin is 16 mg daily for males, and 14 mg for females while the standard therapeutic doses vary from 1.5 to 4.5 g/day. It should be kept in mind that prescription extended-release niacin is generally considered to be pregnancy category C. The use of medication doses of niacin may be limited by poor tolerability due side effects such as flushing, pruritus, paresthesias, or nausea. Pretreatment with aspirin/NSAID may reduce the incidence of flushing and other complications. FAT SOLUBLE VITAMINS AND VITAMIN C Vitamin K a fat-soluble vitamin with at least two forms, vitamin K1 (phylloquinone or phytonadione) and vitamin K2 (menaquinones, including menatetrenone), is mainly transported in TG rich lipoproteins (e.g. chylomicrons) to the liver. While vitamin K is carried with lipoproteins, there is limited data on any influence on lipid metabolism. The metabolism of vitamin K appears to be partly dependent on other vitamins (e.g. vitamins B2 and B3). Unlike vitamin K, vitamin A can affect lipid metabolism. Pro-vitamin compounds of vitamin A exist in several forms including retinols, retinals, retinoic acids, and the carotene family of compounds (e.g. β-carotene). Carotenoids such as retinol are transported through the lymphatic circulation in chylomicrons taken up by the liver. In plasma, vitamin A circulates bound to retinol binding protein (RBP). In small numbers, it can also be part of VLDL, LDL, and HDL complexes. Animal studies and in vitro studies have noted an association
