Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


bound to retinol binding protein (RBP). In small numbers, it can also be part of VLDL, LDL, and HDL complexes. Animal studies and in vitro studies have noted an association between vitamin A abnormalities and altered oxidative phosphorylation, protein synthesis, abnormalities in hormone production (e.g. synthesis of vitamin D or steroid hormones), and alterations in activity of various enzymes (e.g. 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1, 11β-HSD1). Studies in rats have shown that vitamin A deficiency result in increased cholesterol absorption. Using an in vitro model, RAR ligands were showed to influence ABC transporter G1 (ABCG1) expression and influence HDL-mediated cholesterol efflux from macrophages ( 646 ). Vitamin A levels also influence the degree of TG accumulation in adipocytes and blood ( 647 , 648 ). Other in vitro and animal studies have suggested that there could be some increases in TG rich VLDL through other molecular pathways. However, studies in humans have not reported any clear relationship between vitamin A deficiency and lipid levels. However, treatment with oral isoretinoic acid may lead to mild elevations in TG levels ( 649 , 650 ). Further, in the Alpha-Tocopherol, Beta-Carotene Cancer Prevention (ATBC) study, β-carotene was associated an increased risk of CVD events in individuals without a history of MI ( 651 ). In the Women’s Antioxidant and Folic Acid Cardiovascular Study, there were no improvements in cardiovascular events with vitamin A supplementation ( 629 ). Vitamin C has been noted to affect different pathways involving lipid metabolism. Vitamin C includes several compounds that are generally referred to as vitamin C because of their similar biologic activities and serves as a co-enzyme in hydroxylation reactions (e.g. collagen synthesis, norepinephrine synthesis), carnitine synthesis and has anti-oxidant properties (e.g. can interact with glutathione, aid in the scavenging oxygen-derived free radicals). The anti-oxidant properties are important to stabilize other vitamins including vitamin E and folic acid. Older studies noted reductions in TC after vitamin C supplementation in individuals with low vitamin C levels ( 652-654 ). As ascorbic acid can serve as a co enzyme for cholesterol 7 alpha-hydroxylase, low ascorbate levels are thought to decrease the conversion of cholesterol into bile acids. However, increasing vitamin C in individuals with normal vitamin C levels does not appear to lower cholesterol. The studies on vitamin C have largely focused on its anti-oxidative properties as studies have suggested LDL oxidation as playing a role in atherosclerosis. However, any
