Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


appear to lower cholesterol. The studies on vitamin C have largely focused on its anti-oxidative properties as studies have suggested LDL oxidation as playing a role in atherosclerosis. However, any mechanism by vitamin C is not fully understood ( 654-658 ) and studies in humans with vitamin C report conflicting results. Results from small studies suggest that vitamin C supplementation might improve cardiovascular outcomes ( 659-662 ). Others, including a NHANES III study, found that ascorbic acid levels were not independently associated with CVD prevalence ( 663 , 664 ). The Physicians' Health Study II evaluated the effects of vitamin C on primary prevention of CHD and found no significant effect on major cardiovascular events, total myocardial infarction, or cardiovascular mortality ( 665 ). Other studies such as the Heart Protection Study, the Women's Antioxidant Cardiovascular Study, and the GISSI prevention trial noted no reductions in mortality with vitamin C supplementation ( 310 , 666 , 667 ). Vitamin E contains α, β, γ, and δ tocopherols and α, β, γ, and δ tocotrienols and is exclusively obtained from the diet and carried in chylomicrons. Many groups have attempted to understand the molecular effects of alpha tocopherol on the cardiovascular system and its implications for cardiovascular heart disease ( 668-673 ). In animal and in vitro studies, α tocopherol was noted to have anti-oxidative properties and appeared to lower the levels of oxidized LDL. Results also suggest that vitamin E lower ABCA1 activity in monocytes, indirectly decrease ox-LDL uptake in smooth muscle, and decrease hepatic activity of several important enzymes needed for cholesterol metabolism (e.g. HMG CoA reductase, 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase). It is also thought to protect PUFA in membranes and in plasma lipoproteins from peroxidation. There are no studies in humans demonstrating that α-tocopherol can alter the lipid profile. While there are some initial studies suggesting that mixed tocotrienols may lower lipid levels, further studies are needed, and supplementation with α-tocopherol have not shown benefit for primary or secondary CVD prevention. While early epidemiologic studies suggested an association between dietary vitamin E and risk of CVD, studies exploring the relationship between vitamin E and CVD have reported inconsistent findings ( 674-676 ). Trials such as Heart Outcomes Prevention Evaluation (HOPE) study, GISSI-Prevenzione trial, Physician Health Study–II and others did not show reductions in primary and secondary CVD events ( 310 , 665 , 677 , 678 ). Meta-analyses have also
