Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


study, GISSI-Prevenzione trial, Physician Health Study–II and others did not show reductions in primary and secondary CVD events ( 310 , 665 , 677 , 678 ). Meta-analyses have also not found a decrease in cardiovascular events ( 679 ). In addition, some studies suggested that vitamin E supplementation may have adverse effects such as increased stroke and CHF risk ( 680 , 681 ). While the interest in vitamin C’s and E’s antioxidant properties led to extensive research on lipid metabolism, there is now new focused interest in the effect of vitamin D. Vitamin D may exist in the form of vitamin D2 or D3. Vitamin D2 (ergocalciferol) derives from UV irradiation of ergosterol (found in plants and fungi). Vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol) is produced by the UVB irradiation of 7-dehydrocholesterol in the skin. Based on in vitro and animal studies, some have suggested that vitamin D could reduce intestinal absorption and synthesis of lipids, reduce cholesterol levels by inhibiting bile acid synthesis, and alter lipid metabolism. In addition, some in vitro and animal studies have suggested that higher levels of vitamin D may influence vascular calcification through reduced parathyroid hormone (PTH) and higher Klotho protein levels (a protein functioning as an FGF23 co-receptor). However, these suggested mechanisms still need to be studied closely. The effect of vitamin D on serum lipids in humans appears varied and any mechanisms need to be elucidated. Randomized trials that examined the effect of vitamin D supplementation on serum lipids have found varied results. In some observational studies, lower vitamin D levels were associated with mildly higher TC, LDL-C and TG levels ( 682-685 ). Higher vitamin D levels were associated with relative reductions in LDL-C, TG and TC ( 684-687 ). In another trial, vitamin D had a mild lipid-lowering effect in statin-treated individuals ( 688 ). However, results regarding vitamin D replacement and lipid levels have not been consistent ( 682 , 683 ). In short term trials with a single dose or periodic replacements of vitamin D, variable improvements in the lipid profile were seen with very few studies showing improvements in LDL-C and TG ( 682 , 689-692 ). In longer term studies (≥6 months) with periodic replacement, there were no significant changes in lipid profile ( 692 , 693 ). In other trials in individuals with daily supplementation, no significant changes in TC, TG, HDL-C, or LDL-C were seen
