Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


no significant changes in lipid profile ( 692 , 693 ). In other trials in individuals with daily supplementation, no significant changes in TC, TG, HDL-C, or LDL-C were seen ( 472 , 694-698 ). Further, a meta-analysis noted that vitamin D supplementation had little effect on the lipid prolife ( 699 ). Another meta-analysis noted that vitamin D resulted in increases in LDL-C in obese subjects but not in non-obese subjects ( 700 ). The relationship between vitamin D and lipids in humans is not fully understood and more studies are needed to clarify the effect of vitamin D on lipids. Dietary recommendations for fat soluble vitamins and vitamin C are evolving. There is a lack of consensus on a suitable endpoint or biomarker of adequacy for Vitamin K with greater variations in recommendation in the range for adults from which to base recommendations. The AI for vitamin K was suggested to be 90 μg/d for women and 120 μg/d for men (Institute of Medicine (US) Panel on Micronutrients 2001). A daily intake of 625 to 630 μg for men and 500 - 550 μg for women is recommended for vitamin A ( www.nap.edu ). The RDA for ascorbic acid is 75 mg per day for most women and 90 mg per day for men. For vitamin D the RDA is 600IU for individuals below 70 years of age and 800 IU for those above. Summary Functional foods are foods or food components that have the potential to provide disease preventing and/or health promoting benefits in addition to nutritional properties. They generally contain basic nutrients such as carbohydrates, proteins and/or fats and bioactive components, including dietary fiber, healthy fats (e.g. PUFA, MUFA), and antioxidants. Clinical studies conducted on some functional foods over past two decades have indicated that they may be useful in preventing, reducing and/or treating risks associated with CVD, diabetes, obesity, blood pressure or lipid disorders. Benefits seem to vary significantly depending on the type of bioactive components present in the functional foods, on the consumption quantity/intake levels and the frequency of consumption. Health benefits related to lipid disorders of some functional foods are summarized below. Cold water fish such as sardines, anchovies, tuna, salmon, and trout, and fish products such as fish oil can reduce TG levels. A 20-40% reduction in TG was observed mainly when fish or fish oil is consumed in high doses. No
