Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


and fish products such as fish oil can reduce TG levels. A 20-40% reduction in TG was observed mainly when fish or fish oil is consumed in high doses. No significant changes in LDL-C or TC were reported. Consumption of nuts such as walnuts and almonds and seeds such as flax seeds may lower TC and LDL-C and improve the LDL-C/HDL-C ratio in healthy subjects or patients with moderate hypercholesterolemia. Nuts had no significant or minimal effect on reducing TG or increasing HDL-C concentration. Health benefits of nuts and seeds vary significantly depending on the type and nutrient composition and quantity consumed. Caution should be advised as to the possibility of developing allergic reactions to nuts. Soluble fibers such as psyllium, pectin, wheat dextrin and oat bran have been reported to reduce TC and LDL-C by about 10-15% if taken as per recommended amounts. No statistically significant reduction in TG levels was seen. Some insoluble fibers bind minerals such as calcium, magnesium, phosphorous and iron. A high fiber intake can cause abdominal discomfort, gas and diarrhea. The consumption of whole grains, instead of refined grains, may be more beneficial for lowering TC, LDL-C, or TG levels. The effects on lipid levels depend on the type of grain, and quantity of consumption. While there is strong evidence regarding the efficacy of oat and barley in lowering blood lipids, this is variable evidence for other cereal. Health benefits of whole grains are mainly due to the presence of fiber and bran. It is recommended to follow dietary guidelines regarding the quantity of grains consumed. An excess intake of grains can lead to increased weight and TG levels. Clinical evidence on the effects of fruits and vegetables on cholesterol levels is mixed. Some vegetables showed positive effects and some others showed insignificant effects. Fiber-rich fruits and vegetables such as apples, pears, and beans were found to be helpful in modestly lowering TC and LDL-C concentrations. Avocados and olives that contain MUFA can assist in lowering lipid levels. Fruits and vegetables containing phytochemicals (e.g. berries) may also help to reduce cholesterol. The consumption of adequate quantities of beans can lower serum TC by ~8% in the normal individuals. Margarines, orange juice, and yogurt drinks with added plant sterols and/or stanols can reduce LDL-C levels by >10%. Some beverages such as tea, coffee, cocoa, or wine have been suggested to provide health benefits when consumed
