Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


with added plant sterols and/or stanols can reduce LDL-C levels by >10%. Some beverages such as tea, coffee, cocoa, or wine have been suggested to provide health benefits when consumed in limited quantities, probably due to the presence of phytochemicals such as polyphenols. The subject of functional foods is in a relative infancy. Further clinical studies are needed to assess potential health benefits of foods where diet-health relationships are not sufficiently established. Importantly, intake of functional foods should not serve as a substitute for less than optimal eating habits or life style or be seen as the sole pathway to reduce a genetically inherited susceptibility to cardiovascular risk. Effect of weight loss drugs and bariatric surgery Background Obesity is a multifactorial, chronic disease involving metabolic, genetic, behavioral and environmental components, associated with impaired quality of life and a large number of life-threatening disorders, such as diabetes, CVD, metabolic syndrome, liver disease and cancer ( 701-703 ). The frequency of obesity has been increasing at an alarming rate over the past two decades and obesity is now recognized as a global epidemic, affecting over a half billion adults worldwide ( 704 ). Further, obesity is associated with a substantial increase in morbidity and premature mortality, responsible for more than 3.4 million adult deaths per year and global health cost equivalent to 2.8% of the world’s GDP, or approximately US$2 trillion ( 705 ). According to World Health Organization (WHO) data, in 2014, 39% of men and 39% of women aged 18+ were overweight (BMI ≥25 kg/m 2 ) and 11% of men and 15% of women were obese (BMI ≥30 kg/m 2 ) ( 704 ). In addition, there has been a substantial increase in childhood, as according to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the prevalence of childhood obesity has more than doubled, and among adolescents quadrupled in the past 30 years ( 706 , 707 ). In 2011-2014, prevalence of obesity among children and adolescents (aged 2-19 years) in the US has remained relatively stable ( 708 ). Although obesity is thought to be a predicament of Westernized countries, it is also rising in developing countries. This may reflect drastic societal changes over the last two decades that have created an environment promoting a sedentary lifestyle and a high-fat and energy-dense diet. Globally, according to WHO, in 2016 the prevalence of obesity was highest (28.6%) in the
