Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


medical and surgical approaches, they feel most comfortable in trying. In the long term, prevention of obesity through education and changes in the obesogenic environment is essential. Lifestyle modifications remain the cornerstone of weight management, and has three components, diet, physical activity, and behavior modification ( 717 ). According to the NHLBI algorithm for treatment of obesity, a comprehensive program of lifestyle modification is recommended for all individuals with BMI ≥30 kg/m 2 , or those with a BMI ≥25 kg/m 2 and risk factors for CVD ( 716 ). Although these lifestyle intervention programs have been shown to be effective in reducing weight in the short and medium term ( 718 , 719 ); over time, participants tend to gradually regain much of their lost weight ( 705 , 720 ). An approach to consider pharmacological treatment of obesity should only be considered after dietary, lifestyle and behavioral interventions have been appropriately tested and their effect assessed. In the clinical setting, if a patient fail to induce or maintain a weight loss of 10% after 3 months of supervised medical weight management by lifestyle modifications, then addition of pharmacotherapy can be considered ( 717 , 721 ). Pharmacological treatment approach should only be used in conjunction with healthy lifestyle changes, including an increase in daily activity and a calorie-deficit diet. Currently, the following seven categories of medications can be used short-term in the treatment of obesity: sympathomimetics, drugs that alter fat metabolism, antidepressants, serotonin receptor agonists, antiepileptic drugs, antidiabetes drugs and polytherapies. The clinician should be familiar not only with the basic principles regarding the pharmacotherapy of obesity but also consider regulatory and metabolic disturbances involved in the pathogenesis of obesity. Further, the selected pharmacological agent should exhibit minor, ideally none, side effects, be easy to administer for long-term use, be widely accessible and available at an affordable price. The goal of treatment is not only weight loss per se, but also improvement of obesity-related comorbidities, such as hyperglycemia, hyperlipidemia, and heart disease and ultimately improvement in quality of life. It has been demonstrated that sustained weight loss of 5-10%, achieved by current medication options, would result in health gain. However, few patients regard this as a successful weight loss outcome. Therefore, pharmacological agents should not be viewed as a remedy for obesity treatment. For patients with severe obesity and who meets specific indications, as described in details below,
