Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


loss outcome. Therefore, pharmacological agents should not be viewed as a remedy for obesity treatment. For patients with severe obesity and who meets specific indications, as described in details below, bariatric surgery can be considered. Pharmacotherapy can also be considered as adjunct to bariatric surgery when additional weight loss is required or to prevent weight regain after weight loss surgery. Pharmacological Treatment Options Pharmacotherapy of obesity is only one tool in a clinician’s toolkit. In general, pharmacological treatment options should only be used as an adjunct to lifestyle intervention if the patient is not able to achieve the weight goal by lifestyle alone and meets the indications for drug therapy ( 722 ). In 2007 the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) released an updated Draft Obesity Drug Guidance for the purpose of facilitating development of obesity drugs for medical weight loss, defined as a long-term reduction in fat mass with a goal of reduced morbidity and mortality through quantifiable improvements in biomarkers such as blood pressure, lipid levels, and HbA 1c ( 723 ). Thus, according to the guidelines, pharmacotherapy is approved for patients with a BMI ≥30 kg/m 2 or ≥27 kg/m 2 when complicated by weight-related comorbidities. Interestingly, 2007-2008 NHANES survey data demonstrated that only 2.2% of individuals who are obese are being treated by prescription medication. Recently, as outlined below, four new medications were approved by the FDA, lorcaserin (Belviq, Arena Pharmaceuticals and Eisai Pharmaceuticals, San Diego, CA) and phentermine/topiramate extended release (Qsymia, Vivus, Inc, Mountain View, CA, USA) in 2012, and naltrexone/ bupropion (Contrave, Orexigen, Inc, La Jolla, CA, USA) and liraglutide (Saxenda, Novo Nordisk, Inc, Plainsboro, NJ, USA) in 2014. All these medications met the 2007 FDA Draft Obesity Drug Guidance and were approved with a requirement to conduct a post-marketing long-term cardiovascular outcomes trial. Prior to 2012, the only weight loss medicine on the market for long-term use was Orlistat, approved by the FDA in 1999 as the first lipase inhibitor for obesity management including weight loss and weight maintenance when used in conjunction with a reduced-calorie diet ( 724 ). Orlistat was approved as an over-the-counter medication in the US in 2007 at half the prescription dose due to its safety profile. Sibutramine (Meridia), a norepinephrine and serotonin reuptake inhibitor, was approved in 1997 for weight management for patients who are unable to lose weight by diet and exercise alone. However, it
