Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


Sibutramine (Meridia), a norepinephrine and serotonin reuptake inhibitor, was approved in 1997 for weight management for patients who are unable to lose weight by diet and exercise alone. However, it was withdrawn from the market in Europe and the USA for safety concerns in 2010 based on data from the Sibutramine Cardiovascular Outcomes Trial (SCOUT) ( 725 ). In the SCOUT trial, the risk of primary outcome events (nonfatal infarction and stroke) was significantly increased in the sibutramine group as compared with the placebo group. Another centrally acting antiobesity drug, rimonabant, a cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist, has been suspended on the European market by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) in October 2008 due to serious psychiatric problems. These recent withdrawals of obesity drugs from the market due to safety issues have impacted regulatory and marketing policies for the development, registration and commercialization of novel drugs for weigh management, as the US FDA and the European EMA now request post-marketing studies to assess effect of a drug on the risk of cardiac events. Drugs for Treatment of Obesity ORLISTAT (XENICAL/ALLI) Orlistat was launched in the European Union in 1998 under the trade name Xenical (Roche, Nutley, NJ, USA), later in April of 1999 it was approved by the US FDA for obesity management, including weight loss and weight maintenance when used in conjunction with a reduced-calorie diet. In addition, it was approved for use in more than 15 countries in Europe, South America, Southeast Asia and the Pacific region ( 726 ). In February, 2007, a lower dose formulation of orlistat under the trade name Alli (GlaxoSmithKline, Philadelphia, PA, USA) was approved by the US FDA for over-the-counter (OTC) use ( 727 ). The prescription form Xenical is available in 120 mg capsules to be administered thrice daily with the main meals, the OTC form Alli is available in 60 mg capsules that are also to be administered thrice daily with the main meals. Orlistat is a selective and reversible inhibitor of gastric pancreatic lipase. It is a chemically synthesized derivative of lipstatin, a natural product isolated from the bacterium Streptomyces toxytricini. Its therapeutic activity takes place in the lumen of the stomach and small intestine. Orlistat inhibits lipase activity by forming a covalent bond with the active serine residue site of these enzymes and thus preventing the hydrolysis of TG from dietary fat to absorbable fatty acids and monoglycerides. Undigested
