Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


not significantly different from baseline, however in some studies, orlistat treatment resulted in a modest, but statistically significant decrease in TG levels. In the majority of the trials, no beneficial effect of orlistat on mean HDL-C levels has been found. Orlistat- Safety and Side Effects: Generally, orlistat is well tolerated and the reported frequency of overall adverse events in clinical trials is similar to that in placebo-treated patients. The most commonly reported adverse effects among orlistat users are gastrointestinal disturbances including loose and/or fatty stools, flatus with discharge, fecal urgency, abdominal pain, nausea/vomiting, and fecal incontinence. Their incidence increases with increasing dietary fat intake and may be reduced by addition of psyllium fiber. The majority of adverse events were reported as being transient, mild to moderate in severity, usually occurring early in treatment, and generally resolving without intervention within the first few weeks. Due to its ability to reduce the absorption of dietary fat, orlistat use is associated with risk of reducing the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins, and people receiving orlistat are recommended to take fat-soluble vitamin supplementation. LORCASERIN (BELVIQ) Lorcaserin, was approved on June 27, 2012 by the U.S. FDA, under the trade name Belviq (Arena Pharmaceuticals and Eisai Pharmaceuticals, San Diego, CA) for long-term treatment for obesity in adults with a BMI ≥30 kg/m 2 or with a BMI ≥27 kg/m 2 and the presence of at least one weight-related comorbidity ( 762 ). It was the first anti-obesity drug approved by the FDA since Orlistat in 1999. Two previously approved non-selective serotonergic agents, fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine, were removed from the market due to heart valve damage ( 763 ). Lorcaserin selectively targets the 5-HT 2C receptor, but not 5-HT 2B receptors expressed on cardiac valvular cells ( 764 ). Although the exact mechanism of action is unclear, lorcaserin is thought to promote satiety and reduce consumption of food by selectively activating 5-HT 2C receptors located on anorexigenic pro-opiomelanocortin neurons in the hypothalamus. Belviq is prescribed at 10 mg twice daily. Lorcaserin: Clinical Trials- Effect on Lipids: Lorcaserin has undergone 3 major phase III clinical trials to assess efficacy and safety prior to FDA approval ( Table 13 ). In two studies, called BLOOM (Behavioral Modification and Lorcaserin for Overweight and Obesity Management) and BLOSSOM (Behavioral Modification and Lorcaserin Second Study for Obesity) ( 765 , 766 ), volunteers who were obese or had a BMI ≥27 kg/m
