Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


the lorcaserin BID group relative to placebo were observed ( 765 , 766 ). As stipulated in the prespecified analysis plan (Hochberg) to adjust for multiplicity, statistical testing stopped when the change in LDL-C did not differ between placebo and lorcaserin BID. According to this testing scheme the other lipid endpoints were not formally tested, although, where reported, post hoc analyses demonstrated significant changes in HDL-C and TG between lorcaserin and placebo. ApoB levels were significantly lower in the lorcaserin BID, but neither lorcaserin dose significantly affected ApoA-1 levels. A per-protocol population was also analyzed and included patients who completed 52-week of study. Overall changes in lipids observed in the per-protocol population were similar to those in the MITT population. Small, not statistically significant changes in total and LDL-C in either lorcaserin dose compared to placebo was observed. However greater decreases in TG (-9.1% vs. -3.2%; P=0.001) and ApoB (-3.4% vs. 1.7%; P<0.0001) and a greater increase in HDL-C (5.9% vs. 3.2%; P<0.001) were observed in lorcaserin BID vs. placebo, respectively. The BLOOM-DM trial was a randomized, placebo-controlled trial that enrolled 604 patients aged 18-65 years with a BMI 27-45 kg/m 2 and with T2DM ( 767 ). Patients were treated with metformin, a sulfonylurea or both medications and had a HbA 1c level of 7-10%. Patients were randomized to placebo or to lorcaserin HCl 10 mg once daily (QD) or twice daily (BID) for 1 year; all patients received diet and exercise counseling. The primary endpoints were the same as for BLOOM, and secondary endpoints included changes from baseline in glycemic control, fasting plasma glucose, fasting insulin, HOMA-IR, lipids (TC, LDL-C, HDL-C, TG), physical measures (WC, BMI, systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure), and quality of life, as assessed by the Impact of Weight on Quality of Life-LITE questionnaire. More patients assigned to lorcaserin BID (66%) and lorcaserin QD (79%) completed the study compared to placebo (62%). Of those who completed the study, weight loss was -5.6 kg in the lorcaserin BID, -5.9 kg in the lorcaserin QD and -1.9 kg in the placebo group. Mean HbA 1c decreased significantly in the lorcaserin groups as compared to placebo at all time points, as did fasting plasma glucose. Significantly more patients in the lorcaserin BID (50.2%) and lorcaserin QD (52.2%) achieved HbA 1c ≤7% goal versus only 26.3% of patients in the group. Insulin resistance, as indicated by HOMA-IR, was
