Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


patients in the lorcaserin BID (50.2%) and lorcaserin QD (52.2%) achieved HbA 1c ≤7% goal versus only 26.3% of patients in the group. Insulin resistance, as indicated by HOMA-IR, was reduced significantly in the lorcaserin BID compared to the placebo group. Symptomatic hypoglycemia was more frequent in the lorcaserin groups (7.4% and 10.5% for BID and QD groups respectively) than in the placebo group (6.3%). At week 52, one patient in the placebo group (0.5%), two (2.5%; P=0.187) in the lorcaserin QD group, and six (2.9%; P=0.122) in the lorcaserin BID group had echocardiographic FDA-defined valvulopathy that was not present at baseline, though findings need to be interpreted with cautions due to small sample size. Similar to the BLOSSOM trial, overall changes in cholesterol and TG were minimal in all treatment groups, and the differences between treatment groups did not reach statistical significance. According to the prespecified statistical testing conditions, the changes in the total, LDL, and HDL-C were not formally tested since the difference between lorcaserin BID and placebo change in TG was not significant. Lorcaserin- Safety and Side Effects: Initially, the FDA Advisory Committee raised numerous safety concerns regarding lorcaserin ( 768 ). The committee expressed concerns that the drug was the “chemical cousin” of fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine, raising uncertainty over lorcaserin’s cardiac valvulopathy risk. In addition, there was some evidence that lorcaserin can cause fibroadenomas and adenocarcinomas in animal models. Arena Pharmaceuticals addressed these concerns and ultimately the Advisory Committee members were largely satisfied with the results of additional studies provided. Overall, lorcaserin is well tolerated. The most common adverse events in clinical trials were upper respiratory infections, headache, dizziness, nasopharyngitis, back pain and nausea. These symptoms were mild and generally resolved quickly. In these trials treatment-emerged adverse events that resulted in treatment withdrawal occurred in 8.6% of lorcaserin recipients and 6.7% of placebo recipients ( 769 ). The incidence of depression, depressive symptoms or depressed mood (2.5%) as well as incidence of suicidal thoughts according to one item on the Beck Depression Inventory II (1.3) was relatively low. Cardiac valvulopathy (mild or greater aortic regurgitation and/or moderate or greater mitral regurgitation) has been evaluated across several lorcaserin studies. The original drug application for lorcaserin showed a higher prevalence of FDA-defined valvulopathy in study subjects. In the BLOOM trial, at year 1, valvulopathy had developed in 2.7% of patients in lorcaserin and 2.3% patients in placebo group
