Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


higher prevalence of FDA-defined valvulopathy in study subjects. In the BLOOM trial, at year 1, valvulopathy had developed in 2.7% of patients in lorcaserin and 2.3% patients in placebo group (P=0.07), with lorcaserin RR=1.1 (95% CI 0.69 to 1.85). Rates of valvulopathy at year 2 were 2.6% vs. 2.7% for lorcaserin and placebo respectively. In the FDA briefing report, using combined data on all patients who were exposed to lorcaserin or to the placebo in these three trials, no statistically significant difference in echocardiographic findings for aortic insufficiency or mitral regurgitation has been noted in the lorcaserin vs. placebo group. FDA has not recommended routine echocardiography for prescription of the medication. Another potential side effect of lorcaserin is the serotonin syndrome, and 1.0% of lorcaserin and placebo recipients reported various symptoms including chills, tremor, confusional state, disorientation, and hyperhidrosis - all of which may be of serotonergic etiology. It was reported that only two lorcaserin recipients had signs and symptoms consistent with serotonergic excess ( 770 , 771 ). Although the incidence of serotonin syndrome is very low, an association between lorcaserin and serotonin syndrome cannot be excluded on the basis of these data. Further, lorcaserin should be used with extreme caution in combination with other drugs that affect serotonin neurotransmitter systems such as triptans, serotonin reuptake inhibitors, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, selective serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, and tricyclic antidepressants. Longer term studies to further validate such potential risks are planned. PHENTERMINE/TOPIRAMATE (QSYMIA) Qsymia, formerly known as Qnexa, was approved by the FDA in July 2012 as an addition to a reduced-calorie diet and exercise for adults with an elevated BMI ≥30 kg/m 2 (i.e. obesity) or BMI ≥27 kg/m 2 (i.e. overweight) with the presence of at least one obesity-related comorbidity. Qsymia is a once-daily capsule combining 2 separate drugs with different pharmacokinetics – immediate release phentermine and controlled-release (CR) topiramate. Qsymia is available in following doses: 1) starting - PHEN/TPM 3.75/23 mg; 2) recommended - PHEN/TPM 7.5/46 mg; 3) titration - PHEN/TPM 11.25/69 mg; 4) top - PHEN/TPM 15/92 mg. Phentermine is an amphetamine-like drug that acts like an appetite-suppressant and promotes weight loss by activation of the sympathetic nervous system and release of noradrenaline from presynaptic vesicles in the lateral hypothalamus. This increase in noradrenaline results in the simulation of beta-2 adrenergic receptors and a resultant suppression of appetite ( 772 , 773 ). Furthermore, it has been suggested
