Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


used compared with the PHEN/TPM CR groups. More subjects receiving PHEN/TPM CR had a decrease in lipid-lowering medications than did subjects receiving placebo: 3.1%, 5.9%, and 5.8% for the placebo, 7.5/46, and 15/92 groups, respectively. Conversely, 20.3% of placebo-treated subjects increased lipid-lowering medication use compared with 11.1% in the 7.5/46 group and 10.5% in the 15/92 group. Although LDL-C decreased in all treatment arms, the greatest reduction was seen in the placebo group (-4.6%, -5.6% and -10.7% for the 7.5/46, 15/92 and placebo groups, respectively). Decrease in non-HDL-C was similar in all groups. Phentermine/Topiramate- Safety and Side Effects: Vivus, Inc. submitted an initial NDA for Qnexa to the FDA in December 2009, which was denied. Based on the results of Phase III clinical trials, the FDA Advisory Committee largely agreed that the phentermine/topiramate combination resulted in greater weight loss than the use of either drug by itself, and that this weight loss was accompanied by improvements in related comorbidities. However, most of the committee members expressed concerns about potential risks associated with use of antiobesity drugs, especially Qnexa. There were five categories of safety concerns related to Qnexa: psychiatric-related adverse events, cognitive-related adverse events, metabolic acidosis, cardiovascular risks and the teratogenic potential of topiramate when used with phentermine ( 768 ). In October 2011, Vivus resubmitted the Qnexa NDA to the FDA, which included additional information such as second-year results from an extension study, a proposed Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS), as well as proposed labeling including a contraindication for women of reproductive age. Despite concerns about some aspect of the risk mitigation program, the Advisory Committee overwhelmingly voted to recommend FDA approval of phentermine/topiramate combination under its new trade name, Qsymia in 2012. In general, PHEN/TPM was well tolerated in phase III clinical trials. The most common side effects of PHEN/TPM CR reported in both EQUIP and CONQUER trials were dry mouth, paresthesia, constipation, insomnia, dizziness and dysgeusia. Dose-related trends in the incident rate of side effects were noted – the rates were generally greater at higher doses of the medication. Psychiatric and cognitive adverse events were observed mainly during the early phase of treatment, and they were resolved on drug discontinuation. Depressive symptoms were assessed using the Patient Health Questionnaire 9 (PHQ-9), and suicide ideation and behavior were assessed using the clinician-administered Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale (C-SSRS). Although the incidence of depression was higher with the
