Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


Patient Health Questionnaire 9 (PHQ-9), and suicide ideation and behavior were assessed using the clinician-administered Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale (C-SSRS). Although the incidence of depression was higher with the full dose than placebo, PHQ-9 analyses showed no differences between the groups. Further, no significant increase in suicide risks was identified. In the CONQUER study, 3 serious adverse events of nephrolithiasis occurred in participants treated with high dose PHEN/TPM ( 778 ). Topiramate as a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor can decrease serum concentrations of bicarbonate and potassium, therefore increasing the risk of hypokalemia and nephrolithiasis. Careful monitoring of adverse events is advised when PHEN/TPM is used in persons with mild or worse than mild hepatic or renal function. In addition to blood tests, a regular measurement of resting heart rate is recommended in all patients treated with PHEN/TPM. In all three Phase 3 trials, phentermine significantly increased heart rate compared with placebo. Although the clinical significance of increased heart rate is unknown, the use of Qsymia is not recommended in patients with recent or unstable cardiac or cerebrovascular disease. Phentermine/topiramate is contraindicated in patients with glaucoma or hyperthyroidism, as well as during pregnancy and during or within 14 days following monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) use, or in patients with hypersensitivity or idiosyncrasy to sympathomimetic amines, topiramate, or any of the inactive ingredients in Qsymia ( 780 ). Further, the FDA recently classified PHEN/TPM in pregnancy category X because of an increased risk for cleft lip and cleft palate during the first trimester of pregnancy ( 781 ). In spite of strict study requirements, there were 15 pregnancies in women exposed to PHEN/TPM in EQUIP and 2 in SEQUEL study. Among these pregnancies, there were 3 spontaneous abortions, 3 elective abortions, and 9 healthy live births, while no congenital malformations were observed. As mentioned above, FDA approved Qsymia, with a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS), which provides patients with important safety information including prescriber training and pharmacy certification. Qsymia should be only dispensed through specially certified pharmacies. More information regarding Qsymia indication and contraindication, safety information is available at www.qsymia.com/hcp/. NALTREXONE/BUPROPION (CONTRAVE) Naltrexone/Bupropion was approved by the FDA in September 2014 as an addition to a reduced-calorie diet and exercise for adults with an elevated BMI ≥30 kg/m 2 (i.e. obesity) or BMI ≥27 kg/m 2 (i.e. overweight) with the presence of at least one weight-related condition such as hypertension, T2DM,
