Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


<7%, achievement of weight loss ≥10%, and change in HbA 1c , waist circumference, fasting blood glucose, and lipids. In the MITT population, patients treated with NB32 lost significantly more weight than placebo-treated patients (-5.0% vs. -1.8%; P<0.001). Similar results were observed among subjects who completed the study (-5.9% vs. -2.2%; P<0.001). More patients treated with NB32 achieved ≥5% weight loss (44.5% vs. 18.9%; P<0.001) compared with placebo. In addition, patients treated with NB32 exhibited a significant improvement in HbA 1c (-0.6% vs. -0.1%; P<0.001). In addition to improvement in HbA 1c , NB32 treatment resulted in significant improvement in TG and HDL-C levels in type 2 diabetic patients. However, no significant differences were observed between the naltrexone plus bupropion and placebo groups for LDL-C levels. Naltrexone/Bupropion- Safety and Side Effects: Orexigen Therapeutics, Inc. submitted an initial NDA to the FDA for Contrave in March 2010. However, in February 2011, the FDA failed to approve Contrave due to concerns about its cardiovascular safety profile. The sponsor reapplied for FDA approval in December 2013 based on encouraging results of the interim analysis of the Light study, the Contrave cardiovascular outcomes trial (CVOT). Finally, in September 2014, the FDA approved Contrave as treatment option for chronic weight management in addition to a reduced-calorie diet and physical activity. However, with this marketing permission of Contrave, the FDA is requiring several post-marketing studies including a cardiovascular outcomes trial to evaluate the cardiovascular risk; two efficacy, safety, and clinical pharmacology studies in pediatric patients; a nonclinical (animal) juvenile toxicity study focusing on growth and development as well as behavior, learning and memory; a study investigating effects on cardiac conduction; a study to evaluate the effect of Contrave on cardiac conduction; a clinical trials to evaluate dosing in patients with hepatic or renal insufficiency; and a clinical trial to assess potential drug interactions between Contrave and other drugs ( 788 ). Because of the presence of bupropion, the extended release formulation carries a black box warning to alert health care professionals and patients to the increased risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors as well as risk of serious neuropsychiatric events that have been reported in individuals taking bupropion for smoking cessation ( 788 ). Contrave can cause seizures and must not be used in patients who have seizure disorders. The risk of seizure is dose-related. Contrave should be discontinued and not restarted in patients who experience
