Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


cause seizures and must not be used in patients who have seizure disorders. The risk of seizure is dose-related. Contrave should be discontinued and not restarted in patients who experience a seizure while being treated with this agent. Contrave can also raise blood pressure and heart rate and must not be used in patients with uncontrolled high blood pressure. The clinical significance of the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with Contrave treatment is unclear, especially for patients with heart-related and cerebrovascular (blood vessel dysfunction impacting the brain) disease, since patients with a history of heart attack or stroke in the previous six months, life-threatening arrhythmias, or congestive heart failure were excluded from the clinical trials. Blood pressure and pulse should be measured prior to starting the drug and should be monitored at regular intervals, particularly among patients with controlled high blood pressure prior to treatment. In general, naltrexone/bupropion was well tolerated in phase III clinical trials. The most common adverse events reported in COR trials were nausea (32.5%), which in most cases was transient for the first few weeks of treatment. Other treatment side effect were constipation (19.2%), headache (17.6%), vomiting (10.7%), dizziness (9.9%), insomnia (9.2%), dry mouth (8.1%), and diarrhea (7.1%) ( 789 ). LIRAGLUTIDE (SAXENDA) Liraglutide is a glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) analogue, with a 97% structural homology to endogenous human GLP-1. Like endogenous GLP-1, liraglutide binds and activates the GLP-1 receptor, which is present in several areas of the brain involved in appetite regulation. Endogenous GLP-1 has a short elimination half-life of 1.5-2 min, due to degradation by the ubiquitous endogenous enzymes (DPP-4 and NEP). Unlike native GLP-1, liraglutide is stable against metabolic degradation by both enzymes and has a long half-life of about 13 hours after once a day treatment by subcutaneous injection ( 790 , 791 ). Liraglutide was initially developed for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus and subcutaneous liraglutide (Victoza, Novo Nordisk A/S, Bagsvaerd, Denmark), at doses up to 1.8 mg a day has shown benefits for glycemic control ( 792 ). Further, when studies were conducted in a large population, treatment with liraglutide not only improved glycemic control but also produced significant dose-dependent weight loss with limited side effects ( 793-795 ). Saxenda (liraglutide [rDNA origin] injection) is prescribed at 3 mg once a day by subcutaneous injection ( 796 ). Liraglutide: Clinical Trials- Effect on Lipids: The effectiveness
