Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


increase in MTC incidence related to Saxenda; and an evaluation of the potential risk of breast cancer with Saxenda in ongoing clinical trials ( 800 ). Currently, cardiovascular safety of liraglutide is being investigated in an ongoing cardiovascular outcomes trial ( 801 ). Further, the FDA approved Saxenda with a REMS, which consists of a communication plan to inform health care professionals about the serious risks associated with Saxenda. Serious side effects reported in patients treated with Saxenda include pancreatitis, gallbladder disease, renal impairment, and suicidal thoughts. In the clinical trials, 68% of Saxenda treated patients reported gastrointestinal events, of which the most common was nausea (39%). Most nausea events developed within the first 4 weeks and the percentage of patients reporting nausea declined as treatment continued. Other common side effects included diarrhea, constipation, vomiting, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, dry mouth, gastritis, gastrointestinal reflux disease, flatulence, eructation and abdominal distention ( 802 , 803 ). The events were mostly transient and of mild or moderate intensity, and the event frequency were dose dependent. Other side effects include a minor (2-3 beats/min) increases in resting heart rate in Saxenda-treated patients. Although the clinical significance of the heart rate elevation is unclear, especially in patients with cardiac and cerebrovascular disease, some preclinical studies reported that GLP-1 agonists have beneficial effect on cardiovascular outcomes ( 804 ). Surgical Treatment of Obesity As stated above, traditional medical management of obesity, such as lifestyle interventions, behavioral modifications and pharmacological agents usually have modest success rates – only about 5-10% of severely obese patients are able to achieve long-lasting weight reduction. In 1991, the NIH released a Consensus Statement entitled “Gastrointestinal Surgery for Severe Obesity”, which recommended obesity surgery for long-term weight control and specified criteria for patient selection ( 805 ). Recently, updated clinical practice guidelines was jointly developed by the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists, The Obesity Society, and the American Society for Metabolic & Bariatric Surgery for the peri-operative nutritional, metabolic, and nonsurgical support of the bariatric surgery patient ( 806 ). According to current guidelines, the following patients should be considered as candidates for bariatric surgery: a) patients with a severe obesity (BMI≥40 kg/m 2 ) without coexisting medical problems, and for whom bariatric surgery would not be associated with excessive risk; b) patients with moderate obesity (BMI≥35 kg/m 2 ) and one or more severe obesity-related co-morbidities, including type 2 diabetes, hypertension,
