Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


bariatric surgery would not be associated with excessive risk; b) patients with moderate obesity (BMI≥35 kg/m 2 ) and one or more severe obesity-related co-morbidities, including type 2 diabetes, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), obesity-hypoventilation syndrome (OHS), Pickwickian syndrome (a combination of OSA and OHS), nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) or nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, pseudotumor cerebri, gastroesophageal reflux disease, asthma, venous stasis disease, severe urinary incontinence, debilitating arthritis, or considerably impaired quality of life ( 806 ). Bariatric surgery should be considered only for well-informed and motivated patients with acceptable risks, and patients should have failed previous attempts at supervised weight reduction programs and demonstrate realistic expectations about long-term outcomes achievable with surgery. A number of bariatric surgical procedures have been developed for treatment of obesity ( 807 , 808 ), based on the concept that restricting intake and induced malabsorption, or both, will reduce body weight. Currently, there are four types of operations that are commonly offered in the United States: The Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB), the laparoscopic adjustable gastric band (LAGB), biliopancreatic diversion (BPD) with or without duodenal switch (BPD-DS), and the more recent laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG). Each has its own benefits and risks. Some procedures used previously are no longer in use, such as intestinal bypass in which large amount of small intestine was bypassed. The flaw of these operations was that large segments of intestine had neither food nor bilio-pancreatic fluid going through it. In many patients these operations let to a number of complications such as impaired fat absorption, autoimmune diseases, protein malnutrition and these operations are no longer done. The first restrictive procedure was the horizontal gastroplasty in the 1970s which involves partitioning the stomach into a small upper reservoir so that the patient feels full with a small amount of food. However, the weight loss results were poor and the failure rate high (reoperation rate was 15%), and it was replaced by vertical banded gastroplasty (VBG) in 1980s ( 809 ). VBG was one the most popular procedures in the US until 1990s when it was replaced by the combination of restrictive surgery with malabsorption procedure, known as the Roux-en-Y gastric bypass. ROUX-EN-Y GASTRIC BYPASS (RYGB) RYGB was first reported by Drs. Mason and Ito in 1960s, and its popularity increased in the 1980s with improvement of techniques into its current form, using a Roux-en-Y limb of intestine. The gastric bypass was
