Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


Mason and Ito in 1960s, and its popularity increased in the 1980s with improvement of techniques into its current form, using a Roux-en-Y limb of intestine. The gastric bypass was based on weight loss observed among patients undergoing partial stomach removal for cancer and ulcers. The procedure involves partition of the upper part of the stomach using surgical staples to create a small pouch (50 ml or less) and then performing a gastrojejunostomy utilizing a Roux limb of jejunum that allow the pouch to empty. The primary mechanism of weight reduction is calorie restriction although malabsorption may also play a role in longer Roux limbs. Laparoscopic RYGB, introduced by Wittgrove in 1994 ( 810 ), has currently become the mainstay bariatric procedure worldwide. According to the American Society for Bariatric Surgery and the National Institutes of Health, RYGB is the most frequently performed operation for weight loss in the US, and is considered by many surgeons to be the “gold standard” to which all other surgical procedures are compared. Complications of the RYGB include anastomotic leaks, vomiting caused by narrowing of the stoma due to scar tissue development, and dumping syndrome (an adverse event caused by eating refined sugar) RYGB- Effect on Lipids: In general, RYGB surgery tends to result in substantial improvements in cardiometabolic risk factors and circulating lipid levels that are proportional to the magnitude of weight loss ( 811 , 812 ). For example, in patients undergoing laparoscopic RYGB surgery, excess weight loss at one year post-operatively was associated with a 16% decrease in TC, 31% in LDL-C, 63% in TG, 74% in VLDL-C, 60% in total to HDL-C ratio and a 39% increase in HDL-C ( 813 ). In a small study in morbidly obese subjects, there was a significant reduction in TG, a significant increase in HDL-C and a reduction of atherogenic small dense LDL with an increase of large buoyant particles ( 814 ). A longitudinal analysis performed in 949 patients demonstrated that plasma concentrations of TG, LDL-C and HDL-C were all significantly improved one year after RYGB surgery ( 815 ). These improvements in lipid profile were independent of weight loss. A small prospective study reported a significant decrease in levels of ApoB100 (22.9% reduction at 3 months and 32.1% reduction at 6 months) ( 816 ). This change in ApoB100/ApoA-1 ratio correlated significantly with the changes in TC, LDL-C and TG levels.
