Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


(22.9% reduction at 3 months and 32.1% reduction at 6 months) ( 816 ). This change in ApoB100/ApoA-1 ratio correlated significantly with the changes in TC, LDL-C and TG levels. In a recent, randomized, parallel group trial, Sovik et al. compared effect of gastric bypass and duodenal switch on cardiovascular risk factors ( 817 ). The authors report that 2 years after surgery, total and LDL-C concentration decreased by 9.27 mg/dL (0.24 mmol/L) and 10.0 mg/dL (0.26 mmol/L) after gastric bypass, and 41.3 mg/dL (1.07 mmol/L) and 30.1 mg/dL (0.78 mmol/L) after duodenal switch respectively. Both surgery groups had significant reduction in mean TG concentrations and significant increase in mean HDL-C concentrations. LAPAROSCOPIC ADJUSTABLE GASTRIC BAND (LAGB) LAGB is the most recent variation of the gastric restriction procedures, approved by FDA in 2001 ( 818 ). This procedure was introduced to the clinical realm by Dr. Kuzmak, who reported that patients with adjustable silicone bands lost significantly more weight compared with those who had nonadjustable bands ( 819 , 820 ). The procedure involves the placing of an inert inflatable band around the proximal stomach creating a 5-15 ml pouch that offers the opportunity for precise adjustment of the degree of restriction. The LAGB is purely restrictive, and technically a simpler operation than the VGB or RYGB with minimal surgical trauma. Although the gastric band is removable, requiring only a laparoscopic procedure to remove the band, allowing the stomach to return to its normal pre-banded size, adhesions and tissue scars are unavoidable. Complications of LAGB are ulceration, band migration, erosion, slippage, and malfunction, but the recent design and placement technique improvements appear to reduce the complications. A recent longitudinal cohort study of the LAGB patients demonstrated that they achieved and maintained a loss of 47% excess weight to 15 years ( 821 ). According to recent data analysis of the bariatric surgery admissions from 2008 to 2012, the use of LAGB, has decreased over the last few years compared with other bariatric surgical procedures such as RYGB or LSG ( 822 ). LAGB- Effect on Lipids: In regard to changes in lipid profiles after LAGB, while most studies report an improvement of plasma TG and HDL-C, changes in the cholesterol level are reported to vary between the studies. An early study by Busetto et al. investigated the effect of different levels of weight reduction needed to achieve a clinically meaningful
