Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


level are reported to vary between the studies. An early study by Busetto et al. investigated the effect of different levels of weight reduction needed to achieve a clinically meaningful effect on lipid levels in morbidly obese patients undergoing adjustable gastric banding surgery. The authors found that a moderate weight loss (10-20% of initial weight) was able to produce the maximal effect on lipid levels, but more pronounced degree of weight reduction did not add additional benefits to the lipid profile ( 823 ). Nguyen et al. evaluated weight loss and surgical outcomes of RYGB and LAGB from the Australian prospective surgical databases. Overall improvements in TC, TG and HDL-C after both RYGB and LAGB was reported ( 824 ). In an Australian study enrolling 1,176 patients, adjustable gastric band surgery resulted in overall improvement in cardiovascular risk factors including significant decrease in blood pressure, plasma TG and increase in HDL-C levels. However, unexpectedly, there were also significant increases in total and LDL-C levels ( 825 ). Dixon and O’Brien reported favorable changes in TG, HDL-C and TC/HDL-C ratio, but no changes in total and LDL-C level in patients with and without diabetes ( 826 , 827 ). Another small prospective, randomized trial in diabetic patients did not find any changes in lipid profile 1-year after LAGB surgery ( 828 ). A longitudinal cohort study in diabetic patients reported an improvement in most metabolic outcomes including a significant reduction in TG and increase in HDL-C that was sustained for at least 5 years ( 829 ). BILIOPANCREATIC DIVERSION (BPD) WITH OR WITHOUT DUODENAL SWITCH (BPD-DS) The BPD (BPD-DS) was first described by Dr. Scopinaro in 1979 in Genoa ( 830 ). It is a combination of gastrectomy and intestinal bypass and is one of the most technically demanding bariatric procedures associated with a high rate of perioperative morbidity. The procedure contains a restrictive component, but it is primarily a malabsorptive procedure and results in a substantial weight reduction (up to 80% of excess weight) ( 831 ). Although presently it constitutes less than 2% of bariatric surgery procedure worldwide ( 832 ), sometimes it is used as an option in specific situations or with noncompliant patients, such those with Prader-Willi syndrome. Complications of the procedure includes anastomotic leak and ulceration (3%-10%), severe protein malnutrition, hypoalbuminemia, fat-soluble vitamin deficiency, anemia, diarrhea, and osteoporosis ( 831 ). BPD-DS- Effect on Lipids: Regarding
