Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


syndrome. Complications of the procedure includes anastomotic leak and ulceration (3%-10%), severe protein malnutrition, hypoalbuminemia, fat-soluble vitamin deficiency, anemia, diarrhea, and osteoporosis ( 831 ). BPD-DS- Effect on Lipids: Regarding improvements in lipid profile after BPD, most studies report a significant improvement in lipid levels, including reduction in cholesterol, TG, ApoB levels and increase in HDL-C. Scopinaro et al. observed in a 10-year follow-up study on subjects with metabolic syndrome, that throughout all the follow-up period, significant improvements in mean body weight as well as in serum TG and TC levels remained unchanged at levels reached at 1 year after BPD ( 833 ). In a recent study, Piché et al. investigated the impact of BPD-DS surgery on cardiovascular risk profile in severely obese patients ( 834 ). At 1-year after BPD-DS surgery, a marked decrease in body weight (38% loss in initial body weight) was associated with significant reductions in TC, LDL-C, TC/HDL-C ratio, TG and ApoB levels ( 834 ). A small prospective study reported an early and significant reduction of TC (32.8%), LDL-C (46.3%), ApoB (37%) and TG (21.3%) after BPD. Significant improvements in lipid profile after BPD surgery were also reported in studies involving patients with T2DM ( 835-837 ). Benetti et al. assessed intestinal cholesterol absorption in obese patients undergoing biliopancreatic diversion and adjustable gastric banding surgery. Although the weight loss was similar in both surgical groups, serum TC, LDL-C, non-HDL-C decreased only in the former group ( 838 ). The long-term follow-up data available after BPD supports its efficacy as a potential cure for morbid obesity and improvements in related metabolic disorders including changes in the lipid profile ( 839 , 840 ). LAPAROSCOPIC SLEEVE GASTRECTOMY (LSG) More recently, the laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy described by Ren et al. ( 841 ) is rapidly gaining popularity as the preferred bariatric approach ( 842 ). The LSG, a stand-alone laparoscopic procedure, was initially described as the first-step operation for high-risk morbidly obese patients undergoing BPD-DS. The approach was to perform a safer and simpler procedure to get initial weight loss and then after 12 months, under more optimal healthier condition, complete the BPD-DS to achieve the malabsorption effect. However, it became evident that the LSG in itself provided a substantial and long-lasting weight loss and thus the second stage of BPD-DS was rarely needed ( 843 ). The procedure partitions the stomach along its vertical length
