Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


itself provided a substantial and long-lasting weight loss and thus the second stage of BPD-DS was rarely needed ( 843 ). The procedure partitions the stomach along its vertical length by removing its entire fundus and a majority of the body and creating a narrow gastric pouch. This procedure provides significant mechanical restriction with no malabsorption component or dumping, in addition changes in the hormonal and entero-insular axis might also contribute to the efficacy of the procedure. Complications are relatively rare, with a low postoperative mortality rate (1%). The American College of Surgeons - Bariatric Surgery Center Network (ACS-BSCN) recently analyzed retrospectively collected bariatric-specific data and compared the sleeve gastrectomy to the established treatment of obesity: adjustable band (LAGB) and gastric bypass (laparoscopic and open RYGB) ( 844 ). LSG was positioned between the LAGB and the RYGB in terms of effectiveness and morbidity for data up to one year. LSG- Effect on Lipids: Compared to other bariatric procedures, limited information is available regarding the effect of LSG on lipid profiles since it only recently been recognized as a primary procedure ( 845 ). As discussed above, while significant decreases in total and LDL-C levels have been reported after RYGB and BPD surgery, not all patients who had a sleeve procedure have been found to have reduced LDL-C levels ( 846-849 ). Hady et al. assessed the impact of laparoscopic gastric banding and laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy on metabolic parameters in obese patients ( 850 ). At 6 months post-surgery, both procedures resulted in a significant reduction of TC, LDL-C, and TG, however there were no significant changes in HDL-C levels ( 850 ). A recent study compared medium-term (5 years) impact of LSG with two gastric bypass techniques in 519 morbid obese patients ( 851 ). Although LSG resulted in weight reduction that was similar or greater to that from RYGB, LSG was found to be inferior to gastric bypass techniques in terms of lowering blood lipid levels (TC and LDL-C levels) ( 851 ). Notably, in a number of recent studies TC was shown to increase after sleeve gastrectomy ( 847 , 849 , 852 , 853 ). In general, LSG lead to significant improvements in plasma HDL-C and TG level ( 847-849 ). Dogan et al. report that early postoperative changes in LDL and HDL subfraction profile after LSG were accompanied by a significant decrease in HDL-associated enzymes
