Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


TG level ( 847-849 ). Dogan et al. report that early postoperative changes in LDL and HDL subfraction profile after LSG were accompanied by a significant decrease in HDL-associated enzymes (CETP and LCAT). Another recent study explored early metabolic response following LSG in diabetic obese patients ( 854 ). At 1 week after surgery, there was no change in TC, but LDL-C and non-HDL-C increased significantly, and HDL-C decreased significantly ( 854 ). Medical Devices for Treatment of Obesity GASTRIC BALLOON SYSTEMS In 2015, the FDA approved two intragastric balloon (IGB) devices (Orbera and Reshape Duo) for use in the USA, though saline-filled IGB have been used outside of the USA since 1997. In the following year, the Obalon Balloon System was approved by the FDA. The IGB systems has been approved for temporary use (up to 6 months) as an adjunct to weight reduction for obese adults with a BMI of 30-40 kg/m 2 and to be used in conjunction with a long-term diet and lifestyle modification program. The mechanism of action is poorly understood; putatively, IGB may act by partially filling the stomach and reducing gastric volume, delayed gastric emptying, and stimulation of mechanosensitive receptors in the gastric wall. The IGB is placed in the stomach and designed to dwell in the stomach for a maximum of 6 months. Orbera is one of the widely used IGB device and has been used outside of the USA for over 18 years in more than 80 countries ( 855 ). Multiple earlier studies have shown efficacy and satisfactory weight loss with Orbera. A recent pivotal randomized clinical trial showed 10.2% total weight loss at 6 months with Orbera compared to 3.3% in the control group ( 855 ). The Reshape Duo device consists of two balloons that is interconnected by a flexible wire and the dual balloon design aims to enhance gastric space filling and reduce the risk of intestinal migration. In a randomized sham controlled REDUCE pivotal trial, 326 patients (mean BMI 35.4 kg/m 2 ) who had Reshape Duo IGB for 24 weeks demonstrated EWL of 25.1% vs. 11.3% in the control arm. In addition to weight loss, patients with the Reshape Duo had minor improvements in glycemic and lipid parameters compared to those receiving sham treatment ( 856 ). Obalon was approved by the FDA as the first IGB that does not require endoscopic placement ( 857
