Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


and lipid parameters compared to those receiving sham treatment ( 856 ). Obalon was approved by the FDA as the first IGB that does not require endoscopic placement ( 857 ). It is swallowed in a capsule form in a provider’s office, and once position is confirmed by fluoroscopy, the balloon is inflated with 250 ml of nitrogen-sulfur-hexafluoride gas mixture through a connected catheter. Up to three balloons can be swallowed in the same session or sequentially over a 12-26-week treatment period, after which the balloons are deflated and removed endoscopically. In a pivotal multi-center randomized blinded clinical trial the total body weight loss (TBWL) at 6 months among patients with Obalon was 6.9%, compared to 3.6% in control group ( 858 ). Common adverse effects of IGB include vomiting, abdominal cramps, heartburn, nausea, bloating and gastrointestinal reflex and they usually resolve completely within 4-10 days after placement. Serious adverse events occur relatively rare and include gastroduodenal ulcers, intestinal obstruction caused by balloon deflation and migration, and esophageal/gastric perforation ( 856 ). Recently, the FDA warned medical providers about potential risks with fluid filled intragastric balloons (Orbera and ReShape Duo) after receiving reports of acute pancreatitis and spontaneous over-inflation resulting from gas accumulation in the balloon. Neither were listed as potential complications in the initial balloon labeling information. ELECTRICAL STIMULATION SYSTEMS The vagus nerve is known to play an essential role in weight regulation through its effects on satiety, metabolism and autonomic control of upper gastrointestinal track. Intermittent vagal blockade (vBloc) therapy was developed as a less invasive alternative method to treat patients with obesity to standard bariatric surgery. A number of RCTs on vBloc therapy have demonstrated a substantial weight loss and improvement in obesity related comorbid conditions such as T2DM and low rate of overall complications ( 859-861 ). The Maestro Rechargeable System (ReShape Lifesciences) was approved by the FDA in 2015 for patients with BMI 40-45 kg/m 2 , or BMI 35-40 kg/m 2 with at least one weight related comorbidity. The device, delivers low energy, high frequency, intermittent, electrical impulses to anterior and posterior vagal nerve trunks for a predetermined number of hours each day and its implanted and secured using laparoscopic surgical procedures. In the ReCharge trial, the effect of the vBloc Maestro system on weight loss, obesity-related comorbid conditions and safety was studied in 239 obese patients with BMI 40-45 kg/m 2 ( 859
