Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


ReCharge trial, the effect of the vBloc Maestro system on weight loss, obesity-related comorbid conditions and safety was studied in 239 obese patients with BMI 40-45 kg/m 2 ( 859 , 861 ). At 12 months, patients randomized to vBloc group demonstrated a mean 9.2% TBWL compared to 6.0% TBWL in the sham group (P = 0.002) ( 859 ). At 24 months, 123 (76%) vBloc participants remained in the trial and demonstrated 8% TBWL ( 861 ). Quality of life and eating behavior in the vBloc group was substantially improved. In addition, improvements in cardiovascular, anthropometric and metabolic parameters were observed including statistically significant improvement from baseline in LDL-C, HDL-C, TG and HbA1c. Based on the results of the ReCharge trial data, the vBloc device was approved by the FDA for use in individuals with a BMI of 35-45 kg/m 2 . The most frequently reported adverse events were heartburn, dyspepsia and neuroregulator site pain, other pain, abdominal pain, incision pain, nausea and dysphagia. Most of the adverse events were reported as mild or moderate in severity and typically resolved with little or no intervention. Three serious adverse events of infection, confusion with hallucination and brain tumor were reported and adjudicated by committee to be unrelated to vBloc therapy. GASTRIC EMPYTING SYSTEMS Aspirational therapy induces weight loss by direct aspiration of meal after ingestion from the stomach before it passes into small intestine. A percutaneous gastrostomy aspiration tube (the Atube) is placed endoscopically and connected to an external aspiration port that lies flush on the abdominal surface. After the ingestion of each meal, an aspiration device is connected to the port to perform flushing with water followed by aspiration of ~30% of ingested meal. Food particles must be 5 mm or less in diameter, thus patients must take extra time to thorough chewing to ensure food will go through the 6 mm diameter Atube. The AspireAssist (Aspire Bariatrics, USA) was approved by the FDA in 2016 after PATHWAY pivotal trial ( 862 ) for patients aged 22 years and older, with a BMI 35-55 kg/m 2 , who have failed to achieve and maintain weight through non-surgical weight-loss therapy. In the PATHWAY trial, 207 participants were randomized in a 2:1 ration to 52 weeks of treatment with AspireAssist plus lifestyle vs. lifestyle therapy alone. At 1 year, patients with AspireAssist showed greater TWBL compared to patients only receiving lifestyle
