Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


2:1 ration to 52 weeks of treatment with AspireAssist plus lifestyle vs. lifestyle therapy alone. At 1 year, patients with AspireAssist showed greater TWBL compared to patients only receiving lifestyle therapy (12.1% vs. 3.6% mean TBWL, respectively) ( 862 ). Early studies reported promising results, with the AspireAssist yielding a mean TBWL of 15.2–18.6%. These results led to FDA approval of the device in June 2016 for use in adults (>22 years old) with a BMI between 35–55 kg/m 2 who have not responded to nonsurgical weight loss therapy. The FDA has indicated that AspireAssist is intended for long-term use in conjunction with lifestyle therapy and continuous medical monitoring. Most frequently reported adverse events include risks associated with placement of conventional gastrostomy tubes, including post-operative abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, peristomal granulation tissue, and peristomal irritation. ENDOSCOPIC ENDOLUMINAL BYPASS LINERS The duodenal-jejunal bypass liner (GI Dynamics, USA), EndoBarrier mimics the intestinal bypass component of RYGB and duodenal-jejunal exclusion surgery. The liner consists of 60 cm long impermeable fluoropolymer sleeve with a nitinol anchor that is endoscopically delivered into the duodenum. The anchor in placed in the duodenal bulb and liner is stretched out through the duodenum and upper jejunum and therefore preventing absorption of nutrients from proximal part of intestine. Efficacy and safety of EndoBarrier was evaluated in a recent multicenter RCT, which enrolled 77 patients with obesity and T2DM. After 6 months of therapy, patients with EndoBarrier showed significantly more weight loss than control group (mean TBWL 10.0% vs. 4.7%, P <0.05) ( 863 ). In addition, HbA1c levels decreased significantly compared to control (7.0% vs. 7.9%, P <0.05). Marked improvement of T2DM was also observed. However, after removal of the device, weight regain was observed and HbA1c levels increased and at 12 months, the changes in weight and HbA1c levels were no longer statistically different between two groups. Similar results were found in the FDA pivotal ENDO trial – mean change of HbA1c at 12 months 0.8% and mean TBWL was 5.6% compared with sham control ( 864 ). In 2016, GI Dynamics announced the final results from the ENDO trial stating that the trial ended early due to a higher-than-normal incidence of liver abscess. EndoBarrier obtained a CE marking to allow use in the European Union, but did not receive FDA approval. In initial RCT, 76.3% of patients had at least one adverse event vs. 59% in the
