Lifestyle Changes: Effect of Diet, Exercise, Functional Food, and Obesity Treatment on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: ldl-c, dietary, intake, effects, hdl-c, studies, risk, fat, diet, levels, cholesterol, fiber, day, study, consumption


marking to allow use in the European Union, but did not receive FDA approval. In initial RCT, 76.3% of patients had at least one adverse event vs. 59% in the control group. Common adverse events consisted mainly of minor GI complaints, including abdominal pain or discomfort. In addition, complaints of nausea and vomiting occurred in 23.7% of patients. More serious devise related adverse events include upper GI bleeding, pancreatitis, sleeve migration and/or occlusion, and liver abscesses ( 865 ). SUMMARY Obesity is a chronic medical condition and has continued to accelerate at an unprecedented rate in the United States and Worldwide. Treatment of obesity is a difficult and complex process and limited effective obesity management systems are in place in national healthcare services around the world. Lifestyle modifications remain the cornerstone of weight management; a pharmacologic treatment is considered when the behavioral approach is not sufficient. Four drugs, lorcaserin (Belviq), phentermine/topiramate (Qsymia), naltrexone/bupropion (Contrave) and liraglutide (Saxenda) have been recently approved by FDA for the treatment of obesity. Although these drugs appear safe, post-marketing long-term studies are ongoing to evaluate their cardiovascular safety. For patients with severe obesity and who meet specific indications, bariatric surgery can be considered. A range of medical devices for the treatment of obesity, many of which are placed endoscopically, has been recently introduced to bridge the gap between pharmacotherapy and disruptive bariatric surgery. In general, both obesity drugs and bariatric surgery produce favorable effect on plasma lipid levels, however the lipid lowering effect may vary between the treatment regimens as well as between the bariatric procedures. REFERENCES 1. Keys A, Taylor HL, Blackburn H, Brozek J, Anderson JT, Simonson E. Coronary Heart Disease among Minnesota Business and Professional Men Followed Fifteen Years. Circulation. 1963; 28 :381–395. [ PubMed : 14059458 ] 2. Keys A, Aravanis C, Blackburn HW, Van Buchem FS, Buzina R, Djordjevic BD, Dontas AS, Fidanza F, Karvonen MJ, Kimura N, Lekos D, Monti M, Puddu V, Taylor HL. Epidemiological studies related to coronary heart disease: characteristics of men aged 40-59 in seven countries. Acta medica Scandinavica Supplementum. 1966; 460 :1–392. [ PubMed : 5226858 ] 3. Keys A. Coronary heart disease in seven countries. Circulation . 1970;41((Suppl)):1-211. [ PubMed : 5442775 ] 4. Keys A, Aravanis C BH, Buzina R, Djordjević BS, Dontas AS, Fidanza F, Karvonen MJ, Kimura N, Menotti A, Mohacek I, Nedeljković S, Puddu V, Punsar S, Taylor HL,
