Diabetic Ketoacidosis
KEYWORDS: dka, mmol, insulin, acidosis, glucose, patients, bicarbonate, metabolic, treatment, blood, metabolic acidosis, rate, levels, hhs, hyperglycemic


View in own window Clinical / Laboratory feature DKA HHS Onset Rapid (hours to 1-2 days) Gradual (several days to weeks) Blood glucose 200-600 mg/dL (11.1-13.3 mmol/L) >600 mg/dl (13.3 mmol/L) Ketones Ketonemia >3 mmol/L or ketonuria 2+ or higher Absent or <3 mmol/L pH (acidosis) <7.3 ≥7.3 Bicarbonate <18 mmol/L ≥ 15 mmol/L Osmolality Moderately elevated Severely elevated (>320 mOsm/kg) Neurological symptoms Alert to moderate confusion Severe confusion, seizures, coma From the Endotext chapter entitled “Hyperglycemic Crises”. PRECIPITATING FACTORS DKA is usually precipitated by one of the following risk factors ( Table 4 ). Table 4. Precipitating Factors Leading to DKA View in own window Lack of insulin due to omission or suboptimal treatment regimens Infections such as urinary tract infections, pneumonia, skin infections New diagnosis of diabetes Psychological stress Alcohol and substance use Medical or surgical emergencies such as myocardial infarction, stroke, or trauma Medications such as glucocorticoids, antipsychotic medications, SGLT2 inhibitors, immune checkpoint inhibitors SGLT2 inhibitors may cause DKA without elevations of blood glucose (“euglycemic” DKA). PATHOGENESIS DKA results from severe insulin deficiency in the presence of increased counterregulatory hormones, including glucagon, cortisol, epinephrine, and growth hormone, which in turn leads to increased gluconeogenesis, accelerated glycogenolysis, and impaired peripheral glucose uptake resulting in hyperglycemia. The combination of insulin deficiency and heightened counterregulatory hormone activity stimulate lipolysis in adipose tissue resulting in the release of free fatty acids. Free fatty acids are metabolized in the liver, leading to increased ketone production, ketonemia, and metabolic acidosis. The primary distinction between DKA and HHS is the degree of insulin deficiency. In HHS, there is relative insulin deficiency and residual insulin is sufficient to suppress lipolysis and prevent ketogenesis, but inadequate to regulate hyperglycemia. Severe hyperglycemia leads to osmotic diuresis and subsequently to volume and electrolyte depletion. Increased thirst is often not sufficient to compensate for these losses and as a result osmolality rises, renal filtration declines, and as DKA progresses dehydration occurs. DIAGNOSTIC TESTS NEEDED Plasma glucose, electrolytes, BUN, creatinine, phosphate, liver function tests, osmolality, plasma β-hydroxybutyrate, complete blood count with differential, urinalysis, and arterial or veinous pH. Depending upon the circumstances an electrocardiogram, chest X-ray, head CT, blood, sputum, and urine cultures, and HbA1c may be obtained. The use of urinary ketones is discouraged unless blood ketones are unavailable. An anion gap acidosis is calculated by subtracting the sum of Cl - and HCO 3 - from measured (not
