Diabetic Ketoacidosis
KEYWORDS: dka, mmol, insulin, acidosis, glucose, patients, bicarbonate, metabolic, treatment, blood, metabolic acidosis, rate, levels, hhs, hyperglycemic


of urinary ketones is discouraged unless blood ketones are unavailable. An anion gap acidosis is calculated by subtracting the sum of Cl - and HCO 3 - from measured (not corrected) Na + concentration. An anion gap >12 mmol/L indicates the presence of a high anion gap metabolic acidosis consistent with DKA. However, the use of blood or capillary point of care ketone testing renders the use of an anion gap unnecessary. Effective serum osmolality can be determined by the following formula: 2 x [measured Na + (mEq/L)] + glucose(mg/dl)/18. Leukocytosis is a common finding in patients with DKA and might be resulting from acute stress, but a white blood cell count > 25,000/μL may indicate an underlying infection and warrants further investigations. Hypertriglyceridemia is nearly always present in DKA. Additionally, elevated amylase and lipase levels can occur in DKA. DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS DKA must be differentiated from the following conditions. As always, a thorough history needs to be taken to differentiate DKA from these other conditions, including euglycemic DKA. Alcoholic Ketoacidosis: it’s characterized by a high anion gap metabolic acidosis but with normal or low glucose levels. Starvation Ketoacidosis: Malnutrition or prolonged fasting can lead to ketosis and mild acidosis, but blood glucose levels are normal or low. Lactic Acidosis: Leads to metabolic acidosis with high lactate levels in the absence of ketonemia. Toxins: Substances such as methanol and ethylene glycol can lead to a high anion gap metabolic acidosis without elevated ketones. Renal Failure: Acute or chronic kidney disease is associated with metabolic acidosis and uremia without elevated ketones COMPLICATIONS Hypoglycemia: A common complication of treatment. Hypokalemia: Due to intracellular shift of potassium with insulin treatment, hypokalemia is often seen during treatment of hyperglycemic emergencies. Hyperchloremic Non–Anion Gap Acidosis: This transient and typically self-resolving condition can result from excessive normal saline infusion or the metabolism of ketoanions to bicarbonate during DKA resolution. Cerebral Edema: This complication is more common in younger patients. A declining level of consciousness, lethargy, and headache should raise suspicion. Hypoxemia and rarely non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema may be associated with a decrease in the colloid osmotic pressure leading to pulmonary edema. Thrombosis: DKA is a prothrombotic state. An individual risk assessment for venous thromboembolism should be performed for all patients presenting with DKA to decide if prophylactic or therapeutic dose of anticoagulation should be prescribed. Acute kidney failure: A common complication of DKA usually resulting from
