Diabetic Ketoacidosis
KEYWORDS: dka, mmol, insulin, acidosis, glucose, patients, bicarbonate, metabolic, treatment, blood, metabolic acidosis, rate, levels, hhs, hyperglycemic


performed for all patients presenting with DKA to decide if prophylactic or therapeutic dose of anticoagulation should be prescribed. Acute kidney failure: A common complication of DKA usually resulting from severe dehydration due to osmotic diuresis. TREATMENT Fluid Administration of intravenous (IV) fluids restores circulating intravascular volume and organ perfusion, facilitating the excretion of glucose and ketone bodies. Additionally, it improves insulin sensitivity by reducing the effect of counterregulatory hormones. Normal saline 0.9% has been the standard fluid; however, concerns have been raised about its potential to cause hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis, particularly when administered in large volumes. Recent prospective and observational studies, as well as meta-analyses, have shown that using balanced crystalloid solutions such as Ringer’s lactate leads to faster resolution of DKA, shorter hospital stays, and lower incidence of hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. In DKA, an infusion of 15-20 ml per Kg body weight within the first hour is usually appropriate in adults without renal or cardiac compromise. As a general rule, administration of isotonic saline or crystalloid solutions at a rate of 500–1,000 mL/h during the first 2–4 hours is recommended. Once intravascular volume is repleted, the fluid replacement rate and choice of fluid are guided by vital signs, fluid balance, and serum electrolyte levels. In hypernatremia, isotonic solutions are still the preferred choice due to lower risk of rapid correction of sodium levels and cerebral edema. Fluid replacement should restore estimated deficits within the first 24–48 h. Rapid replacement might not be appropriate in individuals with chronic cardiac failure, chronic kidney disease, frailty, and older age. If there are concerns about hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis, Ringer’s lactate solution can be used instead. When plasma glucose falls below 250 mg/dL (13.9 mmol/L), 5–10% dextrose in addition to the 0.9% sodium chloride is suggested to prevent hypoglycemia while insulin is used to correct ketonemia. Insulin Insulin therapy is the mainstay of DKA treatment and should be started immediately after the diagnosis using a fixed-rate intravenous insulin infusion started at 0.1 units/kg/h. Short-acting insulin is the preferred choice. An insulin bolus (0.1 units/kg/hour) given subcutaneously (SC) or intramuscularly if a delay in obtaining venous access is expected, followed by the fixed rate infusion is suggested in some treatment protocols. When blood glucose falls below 250 mg/dL (13.9 mmol/L), the rate should be halved to 0.05 units/kg/h. Subsequently, the infusion continues until the ketoacidosis is resolved and rate adjustments are made depending on
