Diabetic Ketoacidosis
KEYWORDS: dka, mmol, insulin, acidosis, glucose, patients, bicarbonate, metabolic, treatment, blood, metabolic acidosis, rate, levels, hhs, hyperglycemic


potassium level is above 3.5 mmol/L to reduce risk of lethal arrhythmias and respiratory muscle weakness. Cardiac monitoring may be required depending on local protocols. Bicarbonate Bicarbonate is not routinely administered since IV fluids and insulin usually suffice to correct the metabolic acidosis of DKA. Bicarbonate administration is limited to severe metabolic acidosis (i.e., pH <7.0) where 100 mmol of sodium bicarbonate (8.4% solution) in 400 mL of an isotonic solution can be administered every 2 h to achieve a pH >7.0. Phosphate Phosphate replacement is indicated in the presence of muscle weakness or respiratory/cardiac distress and phosphate levels below 1.0 mmol/L. In this case 20–30 mmol of potassium phosphate is added to the replacement fluids. Summary of Treatment Figure 1 summarizes the treatment of patients with DKA. Figure 1. Treatment of patients with DKA. Figure from Endotext chapter entitled “Hyperglycemic Crises”. It is important to closely monitor the patient’s response to therapy and plasma glucose, electrolytes, BUN, creatinine, osmolality, and plasma β-hydroxybutyrate levels and adjust therapy accordingly. The management of DKA in special situations such as pregnancy and chronic kidney disease are discussed in the Endotext chapter entitled “Hyperglycemic Crises”. Evaluation for and treatment of potential precipitating factors is important, and mortality is frequently secondary to the precipitating factors. For this reason, appropriate evaluation and treatment are crucial. FOLLOWUP Preventing further episodes of DKA is essential as a substantial proportion of patients have recurrent events. Recurrent episodes of DKA occur more frequently in females, young age groups, ethnic minorities, low socioeconomic groups, individuals with substance abuse, and individuals with suboptimal glycemic control with the most frequent cause insulin omission. It is important to recognize the possibility of ketosis prone diabetes as these individuals often do not require long term insulin therapy. This disorder most frequently occurs in African, Asian, Indian, and Hispanic populations. It is estimated that it accounts for 25% to 50% of African Americans and Hispanics with a new diagnosis of DKA. These patients are negative for GAD and anti-islet cell antibodies, and the lack of beta cell insulin secretion returns towards normal with normoglycemia. REFERENCES 1. Dhatariya K, Mustafa O, Stathi D. Hyperglycemic Crises. 2025 Jun 10. In: Feingold KR, Ahmed SF, Anawalt B, Blackman MR, Boyce A, Chrousos G, Corpas E, de Herder WW, Dhatariya K, Dungan K, Hofland J, Kalra S, Kaltsas G, Kapoor N, Koch C, Kopp P, Korbonits M, Kovacs CS, Kuohung
