Indian Journal of Surgical Oncology (Septem ber 2023) 14(3):749–751
KEYWORDS: duodenum, duodenojejunal, abdominal, examination, tumors, patient, jejunum, fig, mass, vomiting, loss, surgical, oncology, times, indian


Indian Journal of Surgical Oncology (Septem ber 2023) 14(3):749–751 CASE REPORT Expecting the Unexpected: Adenocarcinoma of Duodenojejunal Flexure in a 15‑Year‑Old Ramanuj Mukherjee1 · Sagnik Maiti1 · Arnab Kundu2 · Ayan Parichha2 · Gouri Mukhopadhyay3 Received: 30 January 2023 / Accepted: 4 May 2023 / Published online: 9 May 2023 © The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Indian Association of Surgical Oncology 2023 Abstract A 15-year-old female patient presented to emergency with bilious vomiting after taking meals for the last 3 months along with intermittent colicky pain in the epigastrium for the last 1 month. Initially, the frequency of vomiting was 2–3 times/ week which gradually increased to 4–5 times/day in the last 2 weeks. She had no history of any abdominal pathology or past history of tuberculosis or abdominal surgery. A review of systems showed she had a weight loss of about 10 kgs in the last 3 months along with loss of appetite. Physical examination revealed soft distention of the upper abdomen with mild tender- ness in the epigastrium. CT scan of the abdomen showed concentric heterogenous luminal narrowing near duodenojejunal flexure with gross dilatation of the duodenum and stomach. The patient underwent resection of D4 and proximal jejunum with side-to-side D2-jejunum anastomosis. Histopathological examination revealed the luminal lesion to be an adenocarcinoma. Keywords Duodenojejunal tumor · Duodenojejunal adenocarcinoma · Duodenojejunal carcinoma Introduction abdominal distention, melena, and pallor. A palpable epi- gastric mass is usually suggestive of advanced disease and Duodenal tumors comprise only 33–45% of small intestinal makes the mass inoperable . Here, we describe a case of tumors and 0.3% of all gastrointestinal tumors of which two duodenojejunal adenocarcinoma in a 15-year-old girl. Even third occur in the second part of the duodenum (D2) . after an extensive literature search, we could not find any Tumors at the fourth part or duodenojejunal flexure are very similar evidence on such a young patient. rare. Initially, they present with vague symptoms making it difficult to diagnose early . In most cases, it presents Case with one or more of these symptoms: vomiting, weight loss, Presentation at a meeting None A 15-year-old female patient presented to emergency with bilious vomiting after taking meals for the last 3 months and * Arnab Kundu intermittent colicky pain in the epigastrium for the last 1 month. Initially, the frequency of vomiting was 2–3 times a Ramanuj Mukherjee week which gradually increased to
