Indian Journal of Surgical Oncology (Septem ber 2023) 14(3):749–751
KEYWORDS: duodenum, duodenojejunal, abdominal, examination, tumors, patient, jejunum, fig, mass, vomiting, loss, surgical, oncology, times, indian


* Arnab Kundu intermittent colicky pain in the epigastrium for the last 1 month. Initially, the frequency of vomiting was 2–3 times a Ramanuj Mukherjee week which gradually increased to 4–5 times per day in the last 2 weeks. She had no history of any abdominal pathol- Sagnik Maiti ogy or history of tuberculosis or abdominal surgery. She had a weight loss of about 10 kgs in the last 3 months along Ayan Parichha with loss of appetite. Physical examination revealed soft dis- tention of the upper abdomen with mild tenderness in the Gouri Mukhopadhyay epigastrium. CT scan (Fig. 1) showed dilated stomach and first and second parts of the duodenum, narrowing at the India gastrointestinal endoscopic examination up to the third part thesia fitness, she underwent diagnostic laparoscopy. A mass Vol.:(0112 33456789) 750 Indian Journal of Surgical Oncology (Septem ber 2023) 14(3):749–751 Fig. 1 CT showing dilated stomach (S), dilated proximal duodenum (D1), and the third part of the duodenum (D3) was visualized in the fourth part of the duodenum abutting of 24, 13 lymph nodes were found to be involved. It was the transverse mesocolon (Fig. 2). Laparotomy was done, classified as pT4N2. The tumor was cytokeratin positive, and resection of the fourth part of the duodenum(D4) along and Ki67 was 70% denoting high proliferation. The patient with the proximal jejunum was performed with a sleeve of was started on adjuvant chemotherapy and is currently on involved transverse mesocolon. Proximally 2 cm and dis- follow-up for 3 months. tally 5 cm margins were taken. Twenty-four regional lymph nodes were harvested. A side-to-side D2-jejunum anastomo- Discussion sis was done. On the cut section, a stricturous lesion (Fig. 3) was seen with invasion of adjacent mesentery. The entire specimen including the mass and resected part of transverse Tumors at the duodenojejunal flexure are pretty rare. Very mesocolon along with the harvested lymph nodes was sent few reports have come up, inadequate for studying and fur- for histopathological examination. ther research. Our case is the youngest patient having this The histopathological examination revealed an adenocar- condition to be reported. Kumar et al. studied nine patients gins were involved, and other margins were negative. Out weight loss, abdominal distention, melena, and pallor) in Fig. 2 The mass (M) as seen on laparotomy along with duodenum (D) proximally and jejunum (J) distally 1 3 Indian Journal of Surgical Oncology (Septem ber 2023) 14(3):749–751
