An Overview of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, bone, gcs, osteoporosis, treatment, patients, gcop, therapy, effects, glucocorticoid, glucocorticoid-induced, growth, free, calcium, loss


ABSTRACT Glucocorticoid (GC)-induced osteoporosis (GCOP) is the most common cause of iatrogenic osteoporosis (OP). Fractures may occur in 30-50% of patients on chronic GC therapy. Most of the epidemiological data associating fracture risk with GC therapy are from the use of oral GCs. The process of bone remodeling is complex, regulated by an intricate network of local and systemic factors. With prolonged GC administration, cortical bone becomes increasingly affected and long bones show increased fragility. As some patients on a low GC dose show bone loss at a much higher rate than others on a higher GC dose, genetics may play a role in determining this difference. Any patient that is treated with long-term GCs should be suspected as suffering from GCOP. Laboratory evaluation for GCOP should include total blood cell count, markers of renal and liver function, serum electrophoresis, serum and 24-hr urine calcium, serum levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D, alkaline phosphatase, thyroid-stimulating hormone and parathyroid hormone, estradiol in women and total and free testosterone in men. Changes in BMD early on during GC therapy can be detected by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA). In patients under GC treatment fractures tend to occur at BMD values that are lower than the conventional threshold T-score of -2.5. Recently simple adjustments for the calculated fracture risk have been presented that take into account glucocorticoid dosage for the Fracture Risk Assessment tool (FRAX). Guidelines for the prevention and treatment of GCOP have been put forth from various authorities. Prevention of GCOP should start as soon as GCs are administered; bone loss is more rapid in the first months of therapy. Patients on GCs should receive supplementation with calcium and vitamin D. There are several antiresorptive agents available for the prevention and treatment of GCOP - bisphosphonates are the most widely used. Teriparatide and denosumab can also be therapies of choice for patients on GC treatment with or without GCOP. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Glucocorticoid (GC)-induced osteoporosis (GCOP) is often the result of secondary osteoporosis (OP) ( 1 ). It is the most common cause of iatrogenic OP; adults aged 20 to 45 years are mainly affected ( 1-3 ). Important bone loss may occur with or without other manifestations and its severity is dependent on both the dose and duration of GC treatment ( 4 ). From a retrospective study
