An Overview of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, bone, gcs, osteoporosis, treatment, patients, gcop, therapy, effects, glucocorticoid, glucocorticoid-induced, growth, free, calcium, loss


bone loss may occur with or without other manifestations and its severity is dependent on both the dose and duration of GC treatment ( 4 ). From a retrospective study conducted in the United Kingdom the prevalence of chronic use of oral GCs in the general population was shown to be 0.5%; the prevalence was higher in women over 55 years (1.7%) and as high as 2.5% in subjects older than 70 years ( 5 , 6 ); more recently experts argued that approximately 2% of the population receives long-term GC treatment ( 7 ). It is of practical interest to note that only 4%-14% of patients taking oral steroids were receiving treatment for prevention of osteoporosis (mainly by rheumatologists), indicating that GCOP is often underestimated and left untreated ( 5 , 8 ). EPIDEMIOLOGY The association between glucocorticoid (GC) excess and osteoporosis was first described nearly 80 years ago, but its importance in clinical practice has only recently been recognized ( 9 ). Although it shares some similarities with postmenopausal osteoporosis, glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis (GCOP) has distinct characteristics, including the rapidity of bone loss early after initiation of therapy, the accompanying increase in fracture risk during this time, and the combination of suppressed bone formation and increased bone resorption during the early phase of therapy ( 10 ). Although awareness of GCOP amongst health-care professionals has increased over recent years, several studies indicate that its management remains suboptimal ( 11 , 12 ). Although increased rates of diagnosis and treatment have been reported, possibly as a result of national guidelines, but overall these rates remain low ( 12 , 13 ). There is clear epidemiological association between GC therapy and fracture risk ( 14-16 ). Oral GC therapy is prescribed in up to 2.5% of the elderly population (aged 70-79 years) for a wide range of medical disorders ( 17 ). Fractures may occur in 30-50% of patients on chronic GC therapy ( 18 ). The vertebrae and femoral neck of the hip are specifically involved ( 19 ), whereas risk at the forearm (predominantly consisting of cortical bone), is not increased, confirming that GCs affect predominantly cancellous bone ( 15 ). Vertebral fractures associated with GC therapy may be asymptomatic ( 20 ). When assessed by X-ray-based morphometric measurements of vertebral bodies, more than 1/3 of postmenopausal women on chronic (> 6 months) oral GC treatment have sustained at
