An Overview of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, bone, gcs, osteoporosis, treatment, patients, gcop, therapy, effects, glucocorticoid, glucocorticoid-induced, growth, free, calcium, loss


asymptomatic ( 20 ). When assessed by X-ray-based morphometric measurements of vertebral bodies, more than 1/3 of postmenopausal women on chronic (> 6 months) oral GC treatment have sustained at least one vertebral fracture ( 20 ). Along with the demonstration that fractures can occur early in the course of GC therapy, fracture incidence is also related to the dose and duration of GC exposure ( 16 ). Doses as low as 2.5 mg of prednisone equivalents per day can be a risk factor for fracture, but the risk is clearly greater with higher doses. Chronic use is also associated with greater fracture risk ( 1 , 16 ). When daily amounts of prednisone - or its equivalent - exceed 10 mg on a continuous basis and duration of therapy is greater than 90 days, the risk of fractures at the hip and vertebral sites is increased by 7- and 17-fold respectively ( 16 ). The risk of fractures declines after discontinuation of GCs although the recovery of the lost bone is gradual and often incomplete ( 1 , 16 ). Most of the epidemiological data associating fracture risk with GC therapy, come from the use of oral GCs. There is less data about risk associated with inhaled GCs ( 21-25 ); from the data available it can be extrapolated that a small but persistent and clinically significant growth retardation may be expected in children receiving inhaled GCs ( 26 ). It is also important to bear in mind that the underlying disorder for which inhaled or systemic GCs is used may also be a cause of bone loss ( 27 ). The systemic release of local bone-resorbing cytokines in some of these disorders could stimulate bone loss ( 28 , 29 ). In addition, there are also local factors to consider. In inflammatory bowel disease, bone loss may be due, in part, to malabsorption of vitamin D, calcium, and other nutrients ( 28 ). In chronic lung disease, hypoxia, acidosis, reduced physical activity, and smoking may all contribute to bone loss, independently of the use of inhaled GCs ( 14 , 25 , 30 , 31 ). SECONDARY CAUSES/RISK FACTORS OF BONE LOSS Factors, such as advancing age, race, sex, menopausal status, family history of OP and fractures, and secondary causes of OP, such as hyperthyroidism, hyperparathyroidism, Cushing’s syndrome, hypogonadism, diabetes (particularly type 1), renal failure, inflammatory bowel disease,
