An Overview of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, bone, gcs, osteoporosis, treatment, patients, gcop, therapy, effects, glucocorticoid, glucocorticoid-induced, growth, free, calcium, loss


sex, menopausal status, family history of OP and fractures, and secondary causes of OP, such as hyperthyroidism, hyperparathyroidism, Cushing’s syndrome, hypogonadism, diabetes (particularly type 1), renal failure, inflammatory bowel disease, and rheumatoid arthritis can add to the effects of GCOP ( 14 , 32-36 ). Some of the risk factors for GCOP are common to other forms of OP and can be modified; these include: low calcium and high sodium intake ( 37 ), high caffeine intake (when calcium intake is low) ( 38 ), tobacco and alcohol use, decreased physical activity, immobilization, and a number of medications ( 32 , 39 , 40 ). Medications/treatments that are administered concomitantly with GCs (such as methotrexate, cyclosporine, heparin, medroxyprogesterone acetate, gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) analogs, levothyroxine, anticonvulsants, or radiotherapy) may add to the disease burden of GCOP. The emerging use of aromatase inhibitors ( 41 ), androgen-deprivation therapy in men with prostate cancer ( 42 ), and the growing field of bariatric surgery ( 43 ) have emerged as novel and important etiologies of secondary osteoporosis. Patients with classical congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) can be over-treated with GC and show loss of bone mineral density (BMD) ( 44 ). The iatrogenic suppression of adrenal androgens production in women with CAH is associated with increased risk for bone loss ( 45 ). Young adult men on GCs apparently show more rapid bone loss compared to older men or postmenopausal or premenopausal women. Of note, men are more susceptible to depression-associated bone loss, which may be in part, GC-mediated ( 46 ). Postmenopausal women receiving GCs show higher fracture risk compared to premenopausal women that is attributed to lower bone mass when starting GC therapy) ( 47 , 48 ). Patients with sarcoidosis and those taking steroids to prevent rejection of grafts after heart or kidney transplant, are also more likely to experience rapid bone loss ( 49-51 ). CELLULAR AND MOLECULAR MECHANISMS OF GCOP The process of bone remodeling is complex, regulated by an intricate network of local and systemic factors. Although normal bone needs endogenous GCs for its development (for osteoblast differentiation in particular, via inhibition of mesenchymal stem-cell differentiation to adipocytes) ( 52-54 ), GCs, at least in mice models, exert negative effects on bone maintenance in old age (by lowering survival of osteoblasts and osteocytes and limiting angiogenesis) ( 52 ). Quiescent bone is covered by osteoblasts and osteoclasts.
