An Overview of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, bone, gcs, osteoporosis, treatment, patients, gcop, therapy, effects, glucocorticoid, glucocorticoid-induced, growth, free, calcium, loss


exert negative effects on bone maintenance in old age (by lowering survival of osteoblasts and osteocytes and limiting angiogenesis) ( 52 ). Quiescent bone is covered by osteoblasts and osteoclasts. In response to bone-resorbing stimuli, osteoclastic migration and bone resorption are activated. Osteoclasts remove both the organic matrix and the mineral component of the bone, producing a pit. This bone remodeling cycle takes place under a canopy of osteoprogenitor cells ( 55 ). In the formation phase, osteoblasts deposit osteoid in the pit, which is then mineralized. In normal bone there is – apparently – no appreciable effect of GCs on osteoclasts ( 52 ). Quiescence is restored at completion of the cycle ( 56 ). GCs can influence bone remodeling in a number of ways and at any stage of the remodeling cycle ( Figure 1 ). We have to note that regarding animal studies of GCOP experts point to the heterogeneity of used models and the need for their standardization ( 57 ). Figure 1. Overview of the mechanisms of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis (GCOP). Osteoporosis results from an imbalance between osteoblast and osteoclast activity. BMP-2: bone morphogenic protein-2; Cbfa1: core binding factor a1; Bcl-2: B-cell leukemia/lymphoma-2 apoptosis regulator; Bax: BCL-2-associated X protein; IGF-I: insulin-like growth factor-I; IGFBP: IGF binding protein; IGFBP-rPs: IGFBP-related proteins; HGF: hepatocyte growth factor; RANKL: receptor activator of the nuclear factor-κB ligand; CSF-1: colony-stimulating factor-1; OPG: osteoprotegerin; PGE2: Prostaglandin E 2; PGHS-2 prostaglandin synthase-2 Bone Histomorphometry Under GCs Trabecular bones and the cortical rim of vertebral bodies are more susceptible to the effects GCs compared to the cortical component of long bones (radius, humerus) ( 58-62 ). Under GC treatment, lumbar bone shows significantly greater bone loss compared to distal radius. Bone loss is also observed in the proximal femur (particularly at Ward’s triangle, an area rich in trabecular bone) ( 63 , 64 ). Although bone remodeling is initially turned on with higher bone resorption, over time, resorption parameters fall and bone becomes quiescent ( 65 , 66 ). Thus, with prolonged GC administration, cortical bone becomes increasingly affected and long bones show increased fragility. Bone biopsies of patients on GC therapy for longer than 12 months show increased bone resorption, a decline in all aspects of bone formation, and decreased trabecular volume. Histomorphometric studies on subjects with GCOP show increased osteoclasts and bone-resorbing sites; bone loss is higher in the metaphyses compared to the
