An Overview of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, bone, gcs, osteoporosis, treatment, patients, gcop, therapy, effects, glucocorticoid, glucocorticoid-induced, growth, free, calcium, loss


aspects of bone formation, and decreased trabecular volume. Histomorphometric studies on subjects with GCOP show increased osteoclasts and bone-resorbing sites; bone loss is higher in the metaphyses compared to the diaphyses ( 67-69 ). A specific feature of GCOP is the decrease in canopy coverage of bone remodeling sites ( 52 , 55 ). GCOP differs from post-menopausal OP in terms of microanatomical appearance; in GCOP the number of trabeculae and their surface area are relatively preserved, and individual plates are very thin (trabecular attenuation), although still connected, whereas in post-menopausal OP, trabecular width is relatively preserved but the lamellae are perforated by resorption, with a loss of trabecular surface and continuity ( 70 ). Such changes may lead to lower mechanical strength of bone. The particular histology of GCOP may have important implications for pharmacologic intervention: the preservation of thinned trabeculae in GCOP may provide the foundation for new bone apposition. With excess GCs, osteoclasts, over time, preferentially deepen their resorption pits than migrate to new resorption sites ( 52 ). Glucocorticoid Receptors (GRs) and Bone There is still no consensus on whether genomic or non-genomic actions of GCs are the major players in GCOP ( 71 ). Genomic actions result from the binding of GCs steroids to specific cytoplasmic receptors that belong to the nuclear receptor superfamily. The GC-GR complex can either activate or repress the expression of target genes. While activation requires binding of a dimerized receptor to GC-responsive elements (GREs) in the promoter region of target genes, repression is mainly mediated by interaction between receptor monomers and transcription factors ( 72 ). GC-induced osteoblast apoptosis does not require GR dimerization ( 52 ). Translation of GR mRNAs produces two GR isoforms; GRα, which is transcriptionally active and GRβ, which can heterodimerize with GRα inhibiting its transcriptional activity ( 73 ). In humans, normal osteoblasts, and specific osteoblastic cell lines show GRα expression, whereas mature osteoclasts show no GRα expression. Osteoclasts, in contrast, predominantly show GRβ expression. Osteoblasts and osteoclasts also express mineralocorticoid receptors (MRs) that bind to cortisol and form heterodimers with both GRα and GRβ ( 74 ). IL-6, in human osteoblasts, acts as an autocrine positive modulator that upregulates the number of GRs ( 75 , 76 ). Cortisol, even at physiologic concentrations, modulates negatively the secretion of IL-11, a cytokine that decreases GR expression ( 77 ). Consequently, this interplay of cytokines through
