An Overview of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, bone, gcs, osteoporosis, treatment, patients, gcop, therapy, effects, glucocorticoid, glucocorticoid-induced, growth, free, calcium, loss


75 , 76 ). Cortisol, even at physiologic concentrations, modulates negatively the secretion of IL-11, a cytokine that decreases GR expression ( 77 ). Consequently, this interplay of cytokines through autocrine/paracrine loops may modulate bone sensitivity to GCs ( 78 ). GCs and Osteoblast Activity In response to pharmacologic doses of GCs, osteocytes trigger the protective process of autophagy; with excessive doses of GCs autophagy leads to apoptosis ( 79 ). GCs increase the apoptosis of osteoblasts and mature osteocytes via activation of caspase 3 ( 1 , 80-83 ). Osteoblast/osteocyte apoptosis may involve decreased expression of the pro-survival factor BclXL and increased expression of the proapoptotic factors Bim and Bak (through induction of the leucine zipper E4bp4) ( 52 , 84 ). Apoptosis is also assisted by GC-induced excess reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and inhibition of Akt, leading to suppression of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway, which is necessary for osteoblastogenesis as well as for cell survival ( 52 , 85 ). Studies on the proaptototic effect of GCs on osteoblasts/osteocytes, indicate that it may be mediated by the process of endoplasmic reticulum stress ( 86 ). Furthermore, GCs reduce osteoblast proliferation and differentiation ( 62 ), possibly as a result of GC-induced repression of bone morphogenic protein-2 (BMP-2) and expression of core binding factor a1 (Cbfa1) ( 84 ). GCs also modify the expression of osteoblast specific genes, such as osteocalcin. Osteocalcin expression during the development of bone is tightly regulated by GCs, and multiple GREs have been identified on the human and rat osteocalcin promoter region ( 87 , 88 ). The osteocalcin gene also contains several activator protein-1 (AP-1) sites that apparently contribute to the basal activity of the promoter. Therefore, repression of osteocalcin promoter activity by GCs may also involve interaction between GR and components of the AP-1 complex, independently of DNA binding, as it has been postulated for the collagenase promoter ( 89 , 90 ). The Wnt signaling pathway is important for osteoblast differentiation and function, bone development and level of peak bone mass ( 91 ). Mechanical loading results in increased bone mass in animals that carry activating mutations of Lrp5 (coding for a Wnt coreceptor)( 91 ). Wnt signaling may be implicated in the osseous response to mechanical loading ( 91 ) and the observed inhibition of skeletal growth by GCs may be mediated by effects on Wnt signaling ( 92 )
