An Overview of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, bone, gcs, osteoporosis, treatment, patients, gcop, therapy, effects, glucocorticoid, glucocorticoid-induced, growth, free, calcium, loss


in the osseous response to mechanical loading ( 91 ) and the observed inhibition of skeletal growth by GCs may be mediated by effects on Wnt signaling ( 92 ) by enhancing Dickkopf 1 (Dkk1) expression (which is a Wnt antagonist) and Sost (sclerostin, which is a disruptor of the Wnt-induced Fz-Lrp5/6 complex leading to β-catenin ubiquitination) ( 52 , 62 , 93 ). Interestingly, both short- and long-term GC administration decreases Dkk1 expression in humans whereas only long-term GC administration decreases Sost expression; Wnt signaling involvement in GCOP appears to be time-dependent ( 52 ). The inhibition of Wnt signaling is also involved in GC-induced adipocyte differentiation ( 52 ). GCs are required for the differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells to bone cells; they can also promote an osteoblastic phenotype (by inhibiting collagenases (MMPs) and reducing collagen type 1 breakdown) ( 94-96 ). Impaired osteoblastogenesis by excess GCs involves the reduction in expression of microRNAs (endogenous RNAs of 18-25 nucleotides each that interact with mRNA to alter protein expression) ( 97 ), such as miR-29a/miR-34a-5p and reductions in the mRNA expression of Dkk1/receptor activator of the nuclear factor-κB ligand (RANKL) ( 98 ). GCs and Osteoclast Activity Compared to effects of GCs on osteoblasts, the effects of GCs on osteoclasts are less known as osteoclast isolation from bone is technically difficult and bone marrow cultures, hematopoietic cell lines and cells derived from giant-cell tumors (used as model systems to study osteoclast differentiation and activity) have produced varying results. GCs stimulate bone resorption ( 99-101 ). It has been shown that GCs stimulate osteoclastogenesis through their capacity to bind to the bone surface by altering the expression of N-acetylglucosamine and N-acetylgalactosamine ( 85 , 102 ). Osteocyte apoptosis, induced by GCs, reduces osteoprotegerin (OPG, the decoy RANKL ligand) ( 52 ). GCs may decrease apoptosis and prolong the lifespan of mature osteoclasts ( 52 , 62 ) but cannot affect directly their bone-resorbing activity, since these cells apparently lack functional GRs ( 103 ). GCs suppress calpain 6 (Capn 6) which is enmeshed in β-integrin (a mediator of osteocyte interaction with the osseous matrix) and expression of microtubules’ acetylation/stability within the bone cells cytoskeleton ( 52 ). Higher expression of the GR gene in subjects with lower BMD may lead to higher sensitivity of their monocytes/macrophages to GCs to differentiate into osteoclasts ( 104 ). Cytokines are also implicated in
