An Overview of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, bone, gcs, osteoporosis, treatment, patients, gcop, therapy, effects, glucocorticoid, glucocorticoid-induced, growth, free, calcium, loss


the GR gene in subjects with lower BMD may lead to higher sensitivity of their monocytes/macrophages to GCs to differentiate into osteoclasts ( 104 ). Cytokines are also implicated in these actions (see next section on regulation of local bone factors by GCs) ( 105 ). GCs and Local Bone Factors (Cytokines, Growth Factors, Prostanoids and Kinases) CYTOKINES Interleukin-1 (IL-1) and -6 (IL-6) induce bone resorption and inhibit bone formation. GCs partially inhibit the production of IL-1 and IL-6 and inhibit the bone resorbing activity of these cytokines (GC therapy could paradoxically protect osseous tissue from IL-induced bone resorption) ( 106-109 ). Transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-β, which inhibits IL-1-induced bone resorption and stimulates osteoblast activity) is decreased by GCs. ( 110 ). Lower levels of TGF-β may increase the susceptibility of bone to the resorbing effects of IL-1. IL-1 suppression also inhibits the generation of nitric oxide, which modulates osteoclast activity ( 111 ). Excess GCs inhibit the expression of IL-11 on osteoblasts (and hinder this cytokine’s effect on their differentiation) independently of GR dimerization ( 52 ). GCs interfere with the RANKL-OPG axis. RANKL (which is expressed at high levels in pre-osteoblast/stromal cells) induces osteoclast differentiation in the presence of colony-stimulating factor-1 (CSF-1) by binding to the receptor activator of the nuclear factor-κB (RANK; a member of the TNF family on the surface of octeoclasts( 108 ). OPG is also produced by osteoblasts and is found on their surface. OPG acts as a decoy receptor of RANKL: it binds RANKL and prevents it from binding its osteoclast receptor, therefore inhibiting osteoclast differentiation. GCs enhance RANKL and CSF-1 expression ( 78 ), and lower OPG expression in human osteoblasts cells in vitro ( 112 ). Serum OPG concentrations are significantly reduced in patients undergoing systemic GC therapy ( 113 ). This decrease in OPG is more marked than the GC-induced increase in RANKL (via suppression of miR-17/20a, which targets Rankl) ( 52 ), leading to an increased RANKL/OPG ratio that may mediate GC-induced bone resorption ( 114 ). GROWTH FACTORS Insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) have an anabolic effect on bone cells that affect IGF-I and IGF-II receptors. IGF-I and IGF-II are weak mitogens (they increase the replication of osteoblasts), they increase type I collagen synthesis and matrix apposition rates and decrease collagenase-3 (metalloproteinase-13) expression by osteoblasts ( 115 , 116 ). Synthesis of IGF-I in osteoblasts is decreased
