An Overview of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, bone, gcs, osteoporosis, treatment, patients, gcop, therapy, effects, glucocorticoid, glucocorticoid-induced, growth, free, calcium, loss


osteoblasts), they increase type I collagen synthesis and matrix apposition rates and decrease collagenase-3 (metalloproteinase-13) expression by osteoblasts ( 115 , 116 ). Synthesis of IGF-I in osteoblasts is decreased by GCs via increased expression of the CAAT/enhancer binding protein (C/EBP) β and δ (transcription factors that bind to the IGF-I promoter and halt its transcription) ( 117 ). GCs inhibit IGF-II receptor expression in osteoblasts (while they have no effect on IGF-I receptor expression)( 118 , 119 ). Since the IGF-II receptor functions as an IGF-binding protein (IGFBP) its inhibition by GCs may result in higher levels of available growth factors although it may also lead to faster degradation of IGF-II. The activity of IGF-I and -II is regulated by at least six IGFBPs that are expressed by osteoblasts ( 120 , 121 ). IGFBPs in skeletal cells are considered to be local reservoirs and modulators of IGFs. GCs decrease the expression of IGFBP-3, -4, and -5 in osteoblasts ( 122 , 123 ). IGFBP-5 stimulates bone cell growth (and enhances the effects of IGF-I); its reduction in the bone microenvironment may be relevant to the inhibitory actions of GCs on bone formation and the process of GCOP ( 124 ). GCs also increase the synthesis of IGFBP-related proteins (IGFBP-rPs; a family of peptides related to IGFBPs that bind IGFs and are involved in cell growth) ( 125 ). Chondrocytes are involved in fracture healing and in OP this process is delayed. Among others, GCs inhibit the activation of GH and IGF-I receptors in chondrocytes and reduce IGF-I and GH receptor expression in these cells ( 126 ). Bone cells express transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) -1, -2, and -3 genes ( 127 ). TGF-β stimulates bone collagen synthesis and matrix apposition rates, modifies bone cell replication, stimulates growth and proliferation of osteoblasts but inhibits their differentiation and the expression of osteocalcin ( 128 , 129 ). TGF-β1 expression in osteoblasts is not modified by GCs. GCs, instead, induce activation of the latent form of TGF-β1 by increasing the levels of bone proteases ( 130 , 131 ). Two signal-transducing TGF-β receptors are expressed in osteoblasts. GCs shift the binding of TGF-β from these receptors to betaglycan (by increasing the synthesis of this proteoglycan) and oppose the effects of TGF-β osteoblastic cell replication ( 130 ). Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) is produced by both osteoblasts and osteoclasts. HGF is a
