An Overview of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, bone, gcs, osteoporosis, treatment, patients, gcop, therapy, effects, glucocorticoid, glucocorticoid-induced, growth, free, calcium, loss


synthesis of this proteoglycan) and oppose the effects of TGF-β osteoblastic cell replication ( 130 ). Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) is produced by both osteoblasts and osteoclasts. HGF is a potent stimulator of osteoblastic function and a potent suppressor of bone resorption in isolated rat osteoclasts ( 132 ). Osteoclast-produced HGF (in an autocrine fashion), may lead to changes in osteoclast shape and stimulate osteoclast migration and chemotaxis, while (in a paracrine fashion) may lead osteoblasts to enter the cell cycle, via DNA synthesis stimulation ( 132 , 133 ). GCs inhibit the release of HGF in vitro , which suggests that the inhibitory effects on bone resorption of GCs may be in part mediated via regulation of osteoblast-produced HGF ( 134 , 135 ). Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) is a mitogen of bone cells ( 136 ). PDGF-A and PDGF–B are expressed in a limited fashion in osteoblasts, and neither the synthesis nor the binding of PDGF appear to be modified by GCs. Specific PDGF-A/B binding proteins are lacking, although SPARC (secreted protein acid rich in cysteine) and osteonectin (a protein abundant in bone matrix) bind and prevent the biologic actions of PDGF-B ( 137 ). Since GCs enhance osteonectin expression in osteoblastic cells they may also decrease the activity of PDGF-B in bone ( 138 ). PROSTANOIDS Prostaglandins (PGs) are produced by bone cells and affect both bone formation and resorption. PGs (and PGE 2 in particular) stimulate bone collagen and non-collagen protein synthesis ( 139-141 ). PGs inhibit directly the activity of isolated osteoclasts and increase bone resorption in organ cultures, (probably by promoting osteoclastogenesis) ( 142 ). GC-induced inhibition of collagen synthesis in bone, down-regulation of c-fos oncogene expression and reduced osteoblast proliferation are all reversed by exogenous PGE 2 in vitro , suggesting an important pathogenic role for this PG in GCOP ( 143-147 ). GCs interfere with the production of PGs in bone (especially of PGE 2 ) via the decreased expression of cyclooxygenases (the enzymes that convert arachidonic acid into PGs) ( 148 , 149 ). Osteoblasts express two cyclooxygenases: constitutive prostaglandin synthase-1 (PGHS-1) and inducible prostaglandin synthase-2 (PGHS-2). Apparently, GC-inhibited PG-production in bone is mediated through a decrease in agonist-induced PGHS-2 expression. KINASES GCs modulate intracellular kinases (ERKs, MAPK/JNK and Pyk2) with a proapoptotic effect on the osteoblastic lineage ( 150 ) EXTRASKELETAL MECHANISMS OF GCOP Effects of GCs on Calcium Absorption
