An Overview of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, bone, gcs, osteoporosis, treatment, patients, gcop, therapy, effects, glucocorticoid, glucocorticoid-induced, growth, free, calcium, loss


KINASES GCs modulate intracellular kinases (ERKs, MAPK/JNK and Pyk2) with a proapoptotic effect on the osteoblastic lineage ( 150 ) EXTRASKELETAL MECHANISMS OF GCOP Effects of GCs on Calcium Absorption and Excretion Although there is no consensus regarding the effect of GCs on calcium absorption, they mainly impair intestinal calcium absorption ( 151-158 ). GCs have no effect on the intestinal brush border membrane vesicles ( 159 ), but decrease synthesis of calcium binding protein and deplete mitochondrial ATP ( 160 ). Patients treated with GCs show increased renal calcium loss occasionally leading to the development of secondary hyperparathyroidism ( 161 ). In normal subjects receiving GCs the elevation of fasting urinary calcium proceeds the rise in immunoreactive parathyroid hormone (iPTH) ( 162 ). In patients on long-term GC therapy, hypercalciuria is most likely due to increased skeletal mobilization of calcium and decreased renal tubular reabsorption that occurs in spite of elevated PTH levels. The GC-induced decrease in bone formation lowers calcium uptake by newly formed bone and elevates the filtered load of calcium. High dietary sodium intake increases renal loss of calcium whereas sodium restriction and thiazide diuretics lower its renal loss ( 163 ). Effects of GCs on the Excretion of Phosphorus GCs, acting directly on the kidney and indirectly, via induction of secondary hyperparathyroidism, lower tubular reabsorption of phosphate, leading to phosphaturia ( 164 , 165 ). Furthermore, GCs increase the amiloride-sensitive Na + /H + exchange activity in the renal proximal tubule brush border vesicles and decrease the Na + gradient-dependent phosphate uptake, resulting in increased acid secretion and phosphaturia ( 166 ). GC Effects on Parathyroid Hormone (PTH) A direct stimulatory effect of GCs on PTH secretion may also exist ( 164 , 167 , 168 ). GCs induce a negative calcium balance that leads to secondary hyperparathyroidism; in patients receiving GCs iPTH is increased, that can be suppressed with exogenous calcium and vitamin D ( 168 , 169 ). Chronic GC administration is accompanied by altered secretory dynamics of PTH; more particularly, it reduces its tonic secretion and increases its pulses ( 170 ). However, elevated iPTH levels can also be suppressed following calcium infusion, suggesting that its elevation is more likely to be secondary to a negative calcium balance caused by GCs, rather than to direct stimulation of PTH secretion ( 171 ). Effects of GCs on Vitamin D Metabolism Low, normal, or
