An Overview of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, bone, gcs, osteoporosis, treatment, patients, gcop, therapy, effects, glucocorticoid, glucocorticoid-induced, growth, free, calcium, loss


secondary to a negative calcium balance caused by GCs, rather than to direct stimulation of PTH secretion ( 171 ). Effects of GCs on Vitamin D Metabolism Low, normal, or increased circulating levels of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25-(OH) 2 D) have been reported in subjects taking GCs ( 171-174 ). These differences may originate from variations in the dietary intake and absorption of vitamin D and in exposure to sunlight. The rate of synthesis and clearance of 1,25-(OH) 2 D is normal in subjects receiving GCs ( 175 ). Although the administration in humans of 1,25-(OH) 2 D improves calcium transport, it does not normalize it ( 176 ). GC Effects on Sex Hormones GCs inhibit the secretion of gonadotropins and also show direct effects on the gonads and the target tissues of gonadal steroids. In rats, GCs reduce the action of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) on granulosa cells and inhibit the response of luteinizing hormone (LH) to gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) ( 177-179 ).In rats and primates, GCs also decrease GnRH secretion; furthermore, in rats, overexposure to GCs renders their pituitary insensitive to exogenously administered GnRH ( 180-182 ).In men and women given GCs the plasma concentrations of estradiol, estrone, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEAS), androstenedione, and progesterone are decreased ( 183-185 ). High-dose GC therapy in women may lead to amenorrhea. Although the exact targets of GC inhibition of steroidogenesis in Leydig or granulosa-theca cells are not fully defined, recent studies have found a GC-responsive upstream promoter region of the cholesterol side-chain cleavage gene ( 186 ). In postmenopausal women an additive effect of GC treatment with estrogen deficiency on bone loss is observed ( 187 , 188 ). GC Effects on Growth Hormone (GH) GH is an important regulator of both bone formation and bone resorption. in vitro studies have shown that the GH-induced increase in bone formation is twofold: by direct interaction with GH receptors on osteoblasts, and through induction of an endocrine and autocrine/paracrine IGF-I effect ( 189 ). In contrast, in animals high endogenous GCs or exogenous exposure can inhibit linear growth and GH secretion in animals. In patients with GCOP a lower GH response to growth hormone–releasing hormone (GHRH) and a positive correlation between GH increment and osteocalcin are observed. This inhibitory effect of GCs on the secretion of GH may be dependent on an increase in somatostatin synthesis and secretion, which inhibits pituitary GH secretion. Arginine, which decreases
