An Overview of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, bone, gcs, osteoporosis, treatment, patients, gcop, therapy, effects, glucocorticoid, glucocorticoid-induced, growth, free, calcium, loss


observed. This inhibitory effect of GCs on the secretion of GH may be dependent on an increase in somatostatin synthesis and secretion, which inhibits pituitary GH secretion. Arginine, which decreases hypothalamic somatostatin tone, normalizes the GH response to GHRH ( 190 , 191 ). Bone sensitivity to GH may also reduce by GCs: an up-regulatory effect on GH receptor expression may be implicated ( 192 ). GC Effects on Connective Tissue Excess GCs hinder wound healing via suppression of DNA and protein synthesis in fibroblasts and impaired local macrophage recruitment ( 193 , 194 ). GC Effects on Muscle Common side effects of GC excess include muscle weakness and loss of muscle mass. Alterations of muscle biopsies of GC-treated patients include selective atrophy of type IIa muscle fibers, relative increase in the number of type IIb fibers and decrease in the number of type I fibers ( 195-197 ). The main mechanisms implicated in GC-induced myopathy are increased protein catabolism, inhibition of glycogen synthesis, and interference with fatty acid β-oxidation ( 83 ). In fact, GCs stimulate ubiquitin-proteasome-dependent protein breakdown in skeletal muscle and regulate calcium-dependent proteolysis ( 198 , 199 ).Moreover, levels of glycogen synthase, beta-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase and citric acid synthase, are lower in muscle from GC-treated patients compared to muscle from disease-matched controls ( 200 ). A strong association between steroid myopathy and OP has been described ( 201 ). INDIVIDUAL SUSCEPTIBILITY TO GCOP Some patients on a low GC dose show bone loss at a much higher rate than others on a higher GC dose ( 202 ). Genetics may play a role in determining this difference. Little is known about the mechanisms of cellular sensitivity to GCs. Individual factors are also important in determining the risk of fractures when GCs are used. Polymorphisms in the GR gene have been linked to the varied degrees of susceptibility to GCs; these could explain the different rates of GC-associated fractures ( 97 ). Individuals that are heterozygous for a polymorphism at nucleotide 1,220 (resulting in an Asparagine-to-Serine change at codon 360), had increased BMI, increased blood pressure and lower spine BMD compared to control subjects ( 203 , 204 ). Another explanation for inter-individual variability among those exposed to GCs is related to differential activity of 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (11β-HSD) ( 205 ). This enzyme system plays a critical role in the regulation of GCs activity ( 206 ). Two
