An Overview of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, bone, gcs, osteoporosis, treatment, patients, gcop, therapy, effects, glucocorticoid, glucocorticoid-induced, growth, free, calcium, loss


GCs is related to differential activity of 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (11β-HSD) ( 205 ). This enzyme system plays a critical role in the regulation of GCs activity ( 206 ). Two distinct 11β-HSD enzymes have been described; 11β-HSD1 (converting cortisone [E] to cortisol [F] and 11β-HSD2 (converting F to E) modulate GC and mineralocorticoid hormone action in target organs ( 205 , 207 , 208 ). 11β-HSD1 is widely expressed in GCs target tissues, including bone ( 206 ). The reductase activity does not show a large inter-individual variability, whereas the oxidase activity of 11β-HSD2 has a large inter-individual variability. Subjects with higher oxidase activity at bone level may be at greater risk of developing GCOP ( 209 ). Men with OP were shown to have increased endogenous GC availability, via apparent 11β-HSD1 activation ( 210 ). The activity of 11β-HSD1 and the potential to generate F from E in human osteoblasts is increased by pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNFα, IL-1β and IL-6) and by GCs themselves ( 211 , 212 ). During inflammation pro-inflammatory cytokines may potentiate GC actions in bone through an “intracrine” mechanism ( 209 , 213 ). An increase of 11β-SD1 activity occurs with aging, possibly providing an explanation for the enhanced GC effects in the skeleton of elderly subjects ( 214 ). In the future, the characterization of factors accounting for the variability to GC-related bone loss among individuals may identify subjects at higher risk of developing GCOP and, possibly, customize treatment. DIAGNOSIS OF GCOP Medical History and Clinical Evaluation Table 1 summarizes elements from medical history suggestive of GCOP and the modalities available for its diagnosis. Any patient that is treated with long-term (for over a month) GCs should be suspected as suffering from GCOP ( 215 ). The risk for GCOP is higher in postmenopausal women, transplant recipients, and patients with sarcoidosis ( 216-220 ). Bone loss depends on the dose, route, and duration of GC administration ( 218-220 ). Table 1. Clues and Diagnostic Means for GCOP View in own window Medical history Sex and age History of OP and/or trauma fractures History of allergy, chronic inflammatory or autoimmune disease, hematologic, skin and renal disorders, transplantation Calcium and alcohol intake, smoking, physical activity Chronic use of anticonvulsants, heparin, immunosuppressants Menstrual, menopausal or fertility status Clinical evaluation Truncal obesity, edemas, striae, skin atrophy and ecchymoses Myopathy (myalgias, weakness of the proximal muscles and pelvic girdle) Assessment
