An Overview of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, bone, gcs, osteoporosis, treatment, patients, gcop, therapy, effects, glucocorticoid, glucocorticoid-induced, growth, free, calcium, loss


218-221 ). In patients receiving GCs a dose-dependent decrease in serum osteocalcin is found; this is a good indicator of the degree of inhibition of osteoblastic activity ( 222 , 223 ). Other markers of bone formation, such as total and bone specific alkaline phosphatase and procollagen type I carboxy-propeptide are also lower in under GC therapy ( 162 , 224 ). In subjects on GC therapy baseline levels of osteocalcin do not always correlate with subsequent bone loss ( 225-227 ). In some, but not all, studies of patients treated with GCs, markers of bone resorption (like urinary collagen N-telopeptides [NTX]) are elevated ( 165 , 228-230 ). In view of such discrepancies, the measurement of serum markers of bone formation and resorption is considered to be of little clinical utility and it is not currently advocated for routine use ( 217 ). Bone Mineral Density (BMD) Assessment Changes in BMD early on during GC therapy can be detected by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) and quantitative computed tomography (QCT); classic X-ray studies are useful to detect vertebral compression fractures. Both QCT and DXA can measure cortical and trabecular bone density, however, the former is mostly used to evaluate trabecular bone density, whereas the latter is used to measure cortical and trabecular bone density ( 231 , 232 ). DXA also helps estimate the risk for fractures, and provides an objective measurement to judge the efficacy of treatment ( 221 , 233 , 234 ). BMD measurement techniques that focus on the vertebral body and exclude the cortical bone of posterior processes, such as lateral DXA scanning, are more sensitive in detecting GCOP ( 61 , 235 ). However, the selection of a BMD assessment method is influenced by the presence of vertebral deformities, osteophytes, or of calcifications in the aorta that may spuriously elevate spinal BMD values. If this is the case, lateral views of the vertebral bodies are considerably less precise than antero-posterior scans, and therefore less appropriate for following up changes in bone mass. When marked osteophytosis or scoliosis of the spine is seen, proximal femoral densitometry (in the femoral neck) should be chosen ( 63 ). The trabecular bone score (TBS), which is a DXA analytical tool that hones on lumber vertebral microarchitecture, may be useful in assessing GCOP ( 236 , 237 ). In patients under glucocorticoid treatment fractures tend to occur at BMD values
