An Overview of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, bone, gcs, osteoporosis, treatment, patients, gcop, therapy, effects, glucocorticoid, glucocorticoid-induced, growth, free, calcium, loss


of GCOP ( 240 ) and the Belgian Bone Club ( 248 ), among others. General Preventive Strategies As soon as GCs are administered prevention of GCOP should start; bone loss is more rapid in the first months of therapy. The minimal effective GC dose should be used. Although alternate day therapy seems attractive it has not been proven to hasten bone loss in adults ( 202 , 249 ); the persistent depression of adrenal androgen production may be the culprit ( 250 ). The concept of “safe dose” for the treatment with oral GCs is controversial ( 66 ). More particularly, prednisone given at low doses (2.5-9 mg/d) may affect BMD whereas lower doses (1-4 mg/d) were reported to have very little or no skeletal effect ( 251 , 252 ). Intravenous high-dose (up to 1 g) methylprednisolone administration is not onerous to bone ( 253 ) but even a single oral dose of 2.5 mg of prednisone has an almost immediate negative effect on osteocalcin secretion ( 254 ). Alternate-day GC administration may prevent growth retardation in children but not bone loss ( 202 , 249 ). Thus, despite the ambiguity of the literature, an equivalent dose equal to or higher than 2.5 mg of prednisone per day for a month seems a sensible threshold to give protection against GCOP. Inhaled GCs may be better than oral or systemic GCs vis-à-vis bone health, but still have their osseous tissue complications ( 22 , 255 ). Newer inhaled GCs (such as budesonide), seem to have less adverse effects on the bone, as indicated by measurements in bone markers ( 256 , 257 ). Dosing of the inhaled GC is important; beclomethasone dipropionate or budesonide given at low doses for more than one year did not affect spine BMD in asthmatic subjects ( 257 ). However, patients treated with high doses of inhaled budesonide or beclomethasone (1.5 mg/day, for at least 12 months) and without prior oral GC treatment for more than 1 month, had a significant decrease in BMD and bone formation markers, with no changes in bone resorption markers ( 258 ). In another study, inhaled GCs in adults with chronic lung disease were not associated with increased fracture risk (and more in detail no dose-response curve was verified) ( 259 ). Moreover, in children treated with beclomethasone for bronchial asthma, analysis after adjustment for the severity of
