An Overview of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, bone, gcs, osteoporosis, treatment, patients, gcop, therapy, effects, glucocorticoid, glucocorticoid-induced, growth, free, calcium, loss


fracture risk (and more in detail no dose-response curve was verified) ( 259 ). Moreover, in children treated with beclomethasone for bronchial asthma, analysis after adjustment for the severity of the underlying disease did not show any association between inhaled GCs and fracture risk ( 260 ). Thus, in children, other factors, such as excess body weight, low muscle mass and limited exercise capacity may predispose to low BMD ( 261 ). Another factor that should be noted is the change in lifestyle for the prevention of GCOP. Diet should be rich in calcium and protein ( 262 ). Alcohol and sodium intake should be reduced (to 1-2 units of alcohol/day ( 245 )), smoking should be stopped and a regular exercise program should be followed ( 37 ). Subjects on GCs may benefit if they are protected from falls ( 217 , 263 ). An important, yet often neglected by most prescribing physicians ( 93 ), facet of GC-treatment is the need for proper patient information and acknowledgement regarding untoward effects. A signed relevant patient acknowledgement form should be included in medical charts/files to avoid malpractice litigation ( 243 ). Therapeutic Options Therapy for GCOP aims to prevent and minimize bone loss, to increase BMD and, at least partially, to reverse the effects of GC excess. Some therapies should be continued for as long as GC treatment is pursued. The usual primary outcome in most reported – to date - trials of GCOP-specific treatments, is the change from baseline in vertebral BMD vis-à-vis placebo or other treatments; few trials have also assessed fracture rates ( 264 , 265 ). CALCIUM AND VITAMIN D SUPPLEMENTATION Patients on GCs should receive supplementation with calcium and vitamin D; this is better than no supplementation or calcium alone ( 262 ). A daily dose of 1,500 mg calcium and 800 IU vitamin D (1 μg/day of α-calcidiol or 0.5 of μg/day calcitriol) effectively oppose negative calcium balance ( 220 ). A two-year randomized clinical trial demonstrated the efficacy of combined calcium and vitamin D supplementation in preventing bone loss in patients with rheumatoid arthritis treated with low doses of GCs ( 266 ). However, these encouraging findings were not replicated in a three-year follow-up study, where the same combination did not show any benefit ( 267 ). From randomized clinical trials and meta-analyses it was shown that active metabolites of vitamin D (α-calcidiol
