An Overview of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, bone, gcs, osteoporosis, treatment, patients, gcop, therapy, effects, glucocorticoid, glucocorticoid-induced, growth, free, calcium, loss


follow-up study, where the same combination did not show any benefit ( 267 ). From randomized clinical trials and meta-analyses it was shown that active metabolites of vitamin D (α-calcidiol and calcitriol) are more effective than vitamin D in maintaining bone density during medium-to-high dose GC treatment ( 268-271 ). Treatment with active forms of vitamin D entails a risk of hypercalciuria and hypercalcemia, consequently periodic assessment of serum calcium and creatinine levels at the beginning of the therapy, after 2-4 weeks, and thereafter every 2-3 months is advised ( 272 , 273 ). Currently - according to the ACR ( 245 ) - optimal intake for calcium is set at 1000 mg/day and at 600-800 IU/day for vitamin D. Thiazide diuretics lower urinary calcium excretion. Chronic treatment with thiazides decreased the incidence of hip fracture in elderly patients, and increased BMD in the general population ( 274-276 ). This evidence suggests that, together with sodium restriction, they may be useful in opposing calcium loss and secondary hyperparathyroidism caused by chronic GC therapy. However, there are currently no studies showing long-term effect of thiazide diuretics on BMD in patients treated with GCs. ANTIRESORPTIVE THERAPY There are several antiresorptive agents available for the prevention and treatment of GCOP. Bisphosphonates decrease the resorptive activity of osteoclasts, increase osteoclast apoptosis and decrease osteoblast and osteocyte apoptosis ( 277 ). Their efficacy in preventing and treating GCOP has been clearly shown in large randomized controlled clinical trials ( 278-280 ). Treatment with alendronate for 18 months or two years increased total body BMD, and – according to some studies - significantly decreased risk of vertebral fractures in patients taking GC ( 281 , 282 ). In a one-year study of patients on GCs having undergone cardiac transplantation subjects given alendronate had lower bone loss compared to subjects on calcitriol or no other treatment (-0.7%, -1.6% and -3.2% for the lumbar spine and -1.7%, -2.1% and -6.2% for the femoral neck BMD, respectively); vertebral fracture rates were not different in the three groups though ( 283 ). In a meta-analysis of published randomized clinical trials of patients with GCOP who were given alendronate for 6-24 months, BMD in the lumbar spine as well as in the femoral neck increased but the fracture rate was not different compared to that of patients who were given only calcium, serving as a control group ( 284 ). Similarly,
