An Overview of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, bone, gcs, osteoporosis, treatment, patients, gcop, therapy, effects, glucocorticoid, glucocorticoid-induced, growth, free, calcium, loss


the femoral neck increased but the fracture rate was not different compared to that of patients who were given only calcium, serving as a control group ( 284 ). Similarly, a one-year study with risedronate in patients taking prednisone (7.5 mg/day for at least 6 months) showed an increase in lumbar spine and femoral neck BMD and an impressive – though prone to bias due to limited sample size - 70% decrease in the relative risk of vertebral fractures ( 285 ). Zoledronic acid, a long-acting potent bisphosphonate given intravenously (4-10 mg once or twice a year) has excellent anti-OP results ( 286-291 ) and has been assessed in GCOP. The HORIZON study lasted for one year and tested the effectiveness of 5 mg intravenous zoledronic acid (n=416) vs. risedronate (n=417) in subjects with GCOP; the former led to greater increase in lumbar bone mineral density and greater decrease in bone turnover compared to the latter ( 292 ). The study did not show differences in fracture risk most probably because of its short duration. Pyrexia (particularly in the first three days post-infusion) and worsening of rheumatoid arthritis were noted more often in the zoledronic acid group ( 292 ). Oral bisphosphonates are a first choice for anti-resorptive therapy, followed by intravenous bisphosphonates ( 245 ), the latter are a first choice in pediatric GCOP ( 293 ). Currently, alendronate po (70 mg/week), risedronate po (35 mg/week or 75 mg on two consecutive days per month) and zolendronic acid iv (5 mg once a year) are recommended to treat men and women receiving GC treatment ( 247 ); therapy is advised for at least two years ( 294 ). Oral ibandronate (150 mg once a month) given for GCOP in men and women has positive results – particularly regarding spine BMD and vertebral fractures ( 295 ). In patients with rheumatoid arthritis and connective tissue diseases who are treated with the RANKL inhibitor denosumab, lumbar spine ( 296-298 ) and femoral neck ( 297 ) BMD increase. Denosumab sc (60 mg every six months) is henceforth also proposed as treatment for GCOP ( 245 , 299 ); it is considered to be superior in therapeutic effect on lumbar spine BMD, total hip/femoral neck BMD and vertebral fractures’ incidence compared to bisphosphonates ( 300 , 301 ). The downside of Denosumab is that its discontinuation is followed by rapid bone loss
