An Overview of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, bone, gcs, osteoporosis, treatment, patients, gcop, therapy, effects, glucocorticoid, glucocorticoid-induced, growth, free, calcium, loss


total hip/femoral neck BMD and vertebral fractures’ incidence compared to bisphosphonates ( 300 , 301 ). The downside of Denosumab is that its discontinuation is followed by rapid bone loss ( 302 ); some experts consider that this makes it less attractive as a treatment for GCOP ( 303 ). Denosumab can also be a therapeutic option in patients with renal insufficiency who cannot receive bisphosphonates or teriparatide ( 243 ). ANABOLIC THERAPY Anabolic medications enhance bone formation, therefore antagonizing the suppressive effect of GCs on osteoblasts. However, some of the information on the use of these compounds to prevent or treat GCOP comes from small studies. Recombinant PTH administration (400 IU of PTH 1-34; teriparatide) to postmenopausal women on prolonged estrogen replacement, who had developed OP after chronic GC therapy, resulted in increased lumbar spine bone mass, assessed by both DXA and QCT, which was maintained after discontinuation of teriparatide ( 304 , 305 ). An 18-month long randomized double-blind trial compared teriparatide vs alendronate in subjects with GCOP; the increase in lumbar BMD was higher with teriparatide (+4.6 to +8.1% vs. +2.3 to +3.6%) than for alendronate at 18 months. Better results were noted for those taking low GC doses and fewer vertebral fractures occurred with teriparatide compared to alendronate (0.6% vs 6.1%) whereas the non-vertebral fracture rate did not differ between treatment groups ( 306 ). Analogous results were noted when the trial was extended to 3 years: lumbar spine BMD increased by +11.0% for teriparatide vs +5.3% for alendronate whereas the respective femoral neck BMD change was +6.3% vs +3.4% ( 307 ). Teriparatide can be a therapy of choice (20 microg/day sc) for patients on GC treatment and/or with GCOP, following intravenous bisphosphonates on a par with denosumab as proposed in the ACR guidelines ( 245 , 247 , 308 , 309 ). The combination of teriparatide and bisphosphonates may not have an additive effect on bone ( 310 ); it is not advised for GCOP. Nevertheless, bisphosphonates given after stopping teriparatide therapy help maintain the bone formed by teriparatide ( 311 ). Sodium fluoride, in combination with either calcium and vitamin D, or cyclic etidronate, improved lumbar spine BMD and trabecular bone volume in GC-treated patients. However, no reduction in the incidence of fractures was observed. Moreover, fluoride induced bone loss at the femoral neck ( 312 , 313 ). Since most of the
