An Overview of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, bone, gcs, osteoporosis, treatment, patients, gcop, therapy, effects, glucocorticoid, glucocorticoid-induced, growth, free, calcium, loss


GC-treated patients. However, no reduction in the incidence of fractures was observed. Moreover, fluoride induced bone loss at the femoral neck ( 312 , 313 ). Since most of the evidence indicates that sodium fluoride does not provide architecturally competent bone, its use is currently not recommended for GCOP ( 220 ). Anabolic steroids have also been tested in GCOP. Cyclic nandrolone decanoate (50 mg i.m. every three weeks for six months) increased the forearm bone density in GC treated women, 10% of which developed virilizing side effects ( 314 ). The typical negative effects of steroids on bone are not present with nandrolone because it is metabolized to dihydrotestosterone (DHT). Similarly, cyclic medroxyprogesterone acetate (200 mg i.m. every 6 weeks for one year) augmented lumbar spine BMD in treated men ( 315 ). Currently, there is no recommendation for the use of anabolic steroids for GCOP. GONADAL HORMONE THERAPY Sex hormone treatment should be considered whenever a patient with GC excess develops hypogonadism ( 278 ). A retrospective study in postmenopausal women taking GCs found an increased BMD in those who were taking estrogens, compared to increasing bone loss in those who were not ( 316 ). Moreover, in a randomized controlled clinical trial of postmenopausal women taking GCs for rheumatoid arthritis, a significant increase in lumbar spine BMD was observed in those receiving hormone replacement therapy (HT) compared to those receiving placebo ( 317 ). This evidence suggests the potential benefit of HT in hypoestrogenic women treated with GCs. However, a large randomized clinical trial in postmenopausal women treated with a combination of estrogen and progestin planned to last 8.5 years was interrupted after 5 years, because the overall risks exceeded the benefits of the treatment ( 318 ). In the past the ACR recommended oral contraceptives (unless contraindicated) in premenopausal women on GCs who develop oligo-amenorrhea ( 220 ) but this option is no longer included in the more recent ACR guidelines. Similarly, adult men with GC excess who develop hypogonadism benefit from testosterone replacement. In GC-treated asthmatic men with testosterone deficiency, i.m. testosterone injections increased lumbar spine but not hip BMD ( 319 ). There are no data on the potential benefit of testosterone therapy in GC- treated eugonadal men ( 247 ). However, since most studies have shown an increase in prostate size and prostate-specific antigen levels in older men on testosterone supplementation/therapy ( 320-323
