An Overview of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, bone, gcs, osteoporosis, treatment, patients, gcop, therapy, effects, glucocorticoid, glucocorticoid-induced, growth, free, calcium, loss


GC- treated eugonadal men ( 247 ). However, since most studies have shown an increase in prostate size and prostate-specific antigen levels in older men on testosterone supplementation/therapy ( 320-323 ), testosterone administration should be monitored with yearly digital examinations and prostate-specific antigen measurements. OTHER THERAPIES In addition to different combinations of the treatments so far discussed, selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) alone or conjugated estrogens/SERMs belong to the pharmaceutic armamentarium against GCOP. SERMs, have positive effects on the bone. Tamoxifen reduces in vitro some of the deleterious effects of GC on the bone ( 324 ). Raloxifene, which is currently approved by the United States’ Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the prevention and treatment of postmenopausal OP, might be a safer alternative to HT in the treatment of GCOP that develops in postmenopausal women ( 246 , 325 ), given its favorable effects on serum lipids, together with the lack of growth stimulation on endometrial and breast tissues ( 326-328 ). FUTURE THERAPEUTIC OPTIONS Currently, denosumab is being evaluated for pediatric GCOP ( 293 ). Other newer agents that are tentatively evaluated for the treatment of osteoporosis either inhibit osteoclast resorption or stimulate osteoblast bone forming activity. These include antibodies against RANKL (RANKL inhibitors), recombinant osteoprotegrin, inhibitors of osteoclast enzymes, integrin antagonists and agonists to LRP5 ( 308 ). At the time of writing, abaloparatide (PTHrp) and romosozumab (humanized monoclonal antibody that targets sclerostin) have been cleared by the FDA for the treatment of OP in women only ( 8 , 329 , 330 ). One would expect the former to be a good candidate for GCOP in analogy to teriparatide. However, this therapy is not yet approved for GCOP and to the best of our knowledge there are no relevant clinical studies to support its use in GCOP ( 331 ). Furthermore, we have to bear in mind that administration of GC > 15 mg/day may attenuate the osseous effects of teriparatide, and this has also been shown with abaloparatide in rodent GCOP models ( 331 , 332 ). There is an ongoing trial of romosozumab in GCOP but at present this medication has no firm indication for GCOP ( 313 ); experimental studies in rodents were encouraging ( 333 ). Other promising future therapeutic options target GC therapy per se . These include the use of disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs or tumor-necrosis factor agents, which could lead
