An Overview of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, bone, gcs, osteoporosis, treatment, patients, gcop, therapy, effects, glucocorticoid, glucocorticoid-induced, growth, free, calcium, loss


encouraging ( 333 ). Other promising future therapeutic options target GC therapy per se . These include the use of disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs or tumor-necrosis factor agents, which could lead to the need for lower GC dosage for autoimmune disease. Furthermore, deflazocort (a prednisone derivative) and liposomal prednisone may be less onerous to bone ( 334 ). The search continues to find selective GR agonists (SGRMs) that possess the anti-inflammatory benefits of traditional GCs without the associated adverse effects ( 335 ). The SGRMs are selective ligands of the GR, which maintain the transrepressive properties of GCs (usually associated with their beneficial anti-inflammatory effect) while they do not have their transactivating properties (usually associated with metabolic negative effects, including perhaps those on the bone). Some of these molecules may represent an alternative to traditional GCs in the chronic treatment of inflammatory disorders ( 334 , 336 ). Inhibitors to cathepsin K (which is involved in systemic bone resorption) ( 337 ) hold promise for treating GCOP ( 295 , 338 ). There is interest in therapeutic inhibitors of 11β-HSD1 for patients with endogenous hypercortisolemia such as Cushing’s disease; these inhibitors – in theory – could also mitigate GCOP but no relevant research has been put forth ( 53 ). GLUCOCORTICOID DISCONTINUATION AND REVERSIBILITY OF GCOP There is no consensus on the reversibility of GCOP. Bone mineral density increases after curative surgery for Cushing’s disease or interruption of exogenous GC treatment ( 339-341 ). A prospective study in patients with rheumatoid arthritis showed partial bone regain after discontinuation of low-dose GC therapy that was given for five months ( 67 ). If GCs are discontinued and treatment for GCOP is continued, a return to baseline BMD is to be expected within 9 to 15 months ( 303 ). In patients with sarcoidosis younger than 45 years, full recovery of bone mass was reported two years after cessation of therapy ( 342 ). However, it is unlikely that the large (10% or more) bone mass that is lost during high-dose GC therapy can be completely regained, with full recovery of the mechanical properties of the bone. The likelihood of bone regain may be negatively correlated with the duration of treatment as well as unknown host-related factors. Most complications of osteoporotic fractures, such as vertebral deformities and chronic back pain, are permanent. A sensible approach is to stop anti-osteoporotic treatment 6 to 12
