Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: influenza, patients, immunocompromised, covid-, timing, vaccination, rsv, transplant, vaccine, optimal, vaccines, guidelines, idsa, respiratory, optimal timing


and L. B. share co-last authorship. lated to the underlying conditions that prompted transplantation Correspondence: L. Baden, Division of Infectious Diseases, Brigham and Women’s . Among solid organ transplant recipients, lung transplant pa- Clinical Infectious Diseases® tients are uniquely at risk: lower respiratory tract infections with © The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Infectious Diseases circulating respiratory viruses are associated with an increased for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our likelihood of chronic lung allograft dysfunction . RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information The severity of disease caused by these viruses in immunocom- please contact . promised populations has been well documented. Respiratory Guidelines on the Use of Vaccines for the Prevention of Seasonal COVID-19, Influenza, and RSV Infections in Immunocompromised Patients • CID • 1 Downloaded from by guest on May syncytial virus is one of the most common respiratory pathogens autoimmune disease treated with immunosuppressants or biolog- in immunocompromised adults and children, with incidence es- ics, or HIV with severe immunosuppression (CD4 <15% or <200/ timates ranging from 1.5% to 12% depending on season and geo- mm³) and are as well recipients of solid organ transplants (SOT), graphic region . Reported mortality in HSCT recipients hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT), chimeric antigen recep- averages 25%–30% for RSV and 13%–16% for COVID-19 [6– tor T-cell therapy (CAR-T), or solid tumor chemotherapy. 8]. Influenza infection similarly results in more severe illness This guideline is intended for use by healthcare professionals and higher mortality in immunocompromised individuals com- who care for immunocompromised patients, including but not pared with the general population . limited to specialists in infectious diseases, primary care physi- Recent shifts in the US vaccine advisory and update processes cians, and family physicians, and other healthcare professionals munization timing, product selection, and prioritization. This RSV vaccination. Other target audiences include US-based evolving landscape highlights the critical need for independent, rig- healthcare systems, payors, and patients. orous evidence reviews to support clear and actionable respiratory The guideline followed a “rapid” development process virus vaccination recommendations for the 2025–2026 season. (ie, panel members are selected; simplified methodological pro- Expert consensus and coordinated guideline development are es- cesses and consensus-based decision-making; the Board is the sential to address current gaps, promote consistent practice, and only reviewing & approving body). The evidence
