Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: influenza, patients, immunocompromised, covid-, timing, vaccination, rsv, transplant, vaccine, optimal, vaccines, guidelines, idsa, respiratory, optimal timing


and coordinated guideline development are es- cesses and consensus-based decision-making; the Board is the sential to address current gaps, promote consistent practice, and only reviewing & approving body). The evidence base strengthen vaccination programs amid rapidly changing guidance. (ie, systematic review) was developed by the VIP team and tailored and supplemented by IDSA panel members for GUIDELINE SCOPE the immunocompromised patients. The Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) has part- nered with the Vaccine Integrity Project (VIP) initiative aiming RECOMMENDATIONS AND REMARKS to synthesize the latest, independent, science-based evidence to Should COVID-19 vaccination versus no vaccination be used in inform vaccine recommendations regarding 2025–2026 fall re- immunocompromised patients (adults and children)? spiratory viruses (COVID-19, RSV, and influenza) . IDSA Recommendation: coordinated with other scientific and clinical groups (American In adults and children with compromised immunity*, the IDSA guideline panel recommends administering age- Obstetricians and Gynecologists [ACOG], American appropriate 2025–2026 COVID-19 vaccinations (strong rec- Academy of Family Physicians [AAFP], and American ommendation, moderate certainty of evidence). College of Physicians [ACP]) to define the scope of the guide- *See Table 1for risk group and timing. lines and ensure recommendations are provided to all patient Remark(s): populations (ie, IDSA handles patients with compromised im- • An FDA-approved 2025–2026 COVID-19 vaccine dose munity; ACOG handles pregnant patients). should be given as soon as possible. For immunocompromised patients, the IDSA Guideline • A second dose of COVID-19 vaccination is likely to extend Development Team has been assembled and composed of IDSA protection. Guidelines Program staff and a panel of 14 experts in hematolo- • For never vaccinated and incompletely vaccinated patients, gy/oncology, solid organ transplantation, immunology, virology/ refer to published guidelines . vaccinology, immunosuppressive medications and monoclonal • Household members and close contacts of immunocompro- antibodies, pediatrics, and human immunodeficiency virus mised patients should be up to date with COVID-19 vaccination. (HIV). The panel was organized into 3 viral subgroups for the ev- • It is appropriate for patients to receive COVID-19, influenza, idence review and drafting of recommendations and manuscripts, and RSV vaccines together. hence a single manuscript on each viral subgroup. Should RSV vaccination versus no vaccination be used in im- munocompromised patients (adults and children)? PUBLICATION SCOPE Recommendation: making during the 2025–2026 respiratory tract infection sea- IDSA guideline panel recommends administering son, the IDSA panel developed rapid guidelines for the use of age-appropriate RSV vaccinations (strong recommendation, US-licensed vaccine against COVID-19, influenza,
