Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: influenza, patients, immunocompromised, covid-, timing, vaccination, rsv, transplant, vaccine, optimal, vaccines, guidelines, idsa, respiratory, optimal timing


hematologic malignancies, autoim- munosuppressive therapy mune diseases, HIV, and patients receiving B-cell–depleting • Determine optimal vaccine timing relative to transplanta- therapies have heterogeneous and often attenuated immune re- tion, chemotherapy, biologics, or cellular therapies. sponses, placing them at increased risk for poor seroconver- • Study strategies such as temporary modification of immu- sion, breakthrough infection, and severe outcomes. nosuppression to enhance vaccine response. To address these gaps and support tailored, evidence-based • Evaluate age-specific considerations, including the use of vaccination strategies, the following cross-cutting research pri- RSV vaccines in individuals <18 years. orities are needed: 5. Real-world effectiveness with robust subgroup analyses 1. Predictors of protection and immunologic correlates • Generate real-world evidence across multiple immuno- • Define correlates of protection and immunogenicity compromised subgroups, with attention to thresholds for diverse immunocompromised subgroups. ◦Age • Clarify the respective contributions of humoral and cellu- ◦Comorbidities lar immunity and how specific immunosuppressive reg- ◦Type and intensity of immunosuppression imens may affect vaccine response. ◦Time from transplant or cancer therapy early post-transplant periods, lung transplantation). allow cross-study comparison. 2. Durability of immunity and impact of viral evolution 6. Safety and rare adverse events in immunocompromised • Conduct longitudinal studies to assess durability of populations vaccine-induced immunity. • Improve detection and characterization of rare • Evaluate how emerging variants or strains and evolving vaccine-associated adverse events such as immunosuppressive therapies influence protection. ◦Myocarditis (COVID-19) • Define the need, timing, and frequency of booster doses ◦Guillain–Barré syndrome (influenza, RSV) across viruses. • Evaluate population-specific concerns, including 3. Comparative and stratified vaccine effectiveness ◦Risk of organ transplant rejection • Compare effectiveness of different vaccine platforms ◦Autoimmune disease flares (eg, mRNA, protein subunit, high-dose or adjuvanted ◦ Exacerbation of underlying immunocompromising formulations). conditions 4 • CID • Nellore et al Downloaded from by guest on May • Conduct stratified safety analyses by immunosuppressive patients. They are assessments of current scientific and clini- regimen and underlying disease. cal information provided as an educational service; are not 7. Strategies to enhance protection beyond vaccination alone continually updated and may not reflect the most recent evi- • Study the effectiveness of additional approaches to aug- dence (new evidence may emerge between the time informa- ment protection, including tion is drafted and when it is published or read); should not be ◦Adjuvanted or higher-dose vaccines considered inclusive of all proper methods of care, or as a ◦Passive immunization or early therapeutics
