Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: influenza, patients, immunocompromised, covid-, timing, vaccination, rsv, transplant, vaccine, optimal, vaccines, guidelines, idsa, respiratory, optimal timing


and when it is published or read); should not be ◦Adjuvanted or higher-dose vaccines considered inclusive of all proper methods of care, or as a ◦Passive immunization or early therapeutics statement of the standard of care; do not mandate any course ◦Integration of nonpharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) of medical care; and are not intended to supplant clinician for high-risk periods judgment with respect to particular patients or situations. 8. Equity, access, and implementation Whether to follow guidelines and to what extent is voluntary, • Identify structural and behavioral barriers to vaccination. with the ultimate determination regarding their application to • Evaluate interventions to improve uptake, outreach, and be made by the clinician in the light of each patient’s individ- access in underserved or high-risk populations. ual circumstances. While IDSA makes every effort to present • Investigate disparities in vaccine coverage, outcomes, and accurate, complete, and reliable information, these guidelines care pathways. are presented “as is” without any warranty, either express or 9. Study design and infrastructure needs implied. IDSA (and its officers, directors, members, employ- • Prioritize multicenter, prospective studies including large, ees, and agents) assume no responsibility for any loss, damage, immunocompromised cohorts. or claim with respect to any liabilities, including direct, spe- • Harmonize definitions, outcome measures, and immuno- cial, indirect, or consequential damages, incurred in connec- logic assays across studies. tion with these guidelines or reliance on the information • Ensure adequate stratification to capture heterogeneity presented. across immunocompromised groups. The guidelines represent the proprietary and copyrighted property of IDSA. All rights reserved. No part of these guide- Immunocompromised patients remain a highly vulnerable lines may be reproduced, distributed, or transmitted in any population with incomplete protection from currently available form or by any means, including photocopying, recording, or respiratory virus vaccines. Research should focus on defining other electronic or mechanical methods, without the prior writ- immunologic correlates, optimizing vaccine schedules, en- ten permission of IDSA. Permission is granted to physicians and healthcare providers solely to copy and use the guidelines concerns, and ensuring equitable access. Multi-virus, multi- in their professional practices and clinical decision-making. No platform, harmonized research efforts will be essential to guide license or permission is granted to any person or entity, and tailored vaccination and prevention strategies as respiratory vi- prior written authorization by IDSA is required to sell, distrib- ruses continue to circulate endemically. ute, or modify the guidelines, or to make derivative
