Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: influenza, patients, immunocompromised, covid-, timing, vaccination, rsv, transplant, vaccine, optimal, vaccines, guidelines, idsa, respiratory, optimal timing


and prevention strategies as respiratory vi- prior written authorization by IDSA is required to sell, distrib- ruses continue to circulate endemically. ute, or modify the guidelines, or to make derivative works of or incorporate the guidelines into any product, including, but not Notes Acknowledgments. We thank Lindsey Fraser-Green for the ware product. Except for the permission granted above, any medical librarian support (creation and execution of literature person or entity desiring to use the guidelines in any way searches) and Genet Demisashi, Loretta Dzanya, Jonathan Heald, must contact IDSA for approval in accordance with the terms and Dana Wollins for the project coordination. We also thank and conditions of third-party use, in particular any use of the Lara A. Kahale for leading manuscript writing. L. B. served as guidelines in any software product. Chair and oversaw cross-subgroup integration. A. N. Additional information. More detailed information on the (COVID-19), P. G. (Influenza), and C. S. T. (RSV) served as sub- analysis and development of each recommendation is available group leads. Members of the COVID-19 subgroup included in the manuscripts of each viral subgroup and their respective M. J. K., D. K., and T. S.; and the RSV subgroup included S. A., Financial support. This work was supported by the E. J. A.-H., F. M., and T. M. For COVID-19, Y. F.-Y. and Infectious Diseases Society of America. E. Y. served as lead methodologists; D. K. and J. L. provided meth- Potential conflicts of interest. Evaluation of relationships as odological support. For influenza and RSV, Y. F.-Y. and D. K. potential conflicts of interest is determined by a review pro- served as lead methodologists; J. L. and E. Y. provided methodolog- cess. The assessment of disclosed relationships for possible ical support. All authors contributed to drafting and revising the COIs is based on the relative weight of the financial relation- guideline and approved the final version and recommendations. ship (ie, monetary amount) and the relevance of the relation- Disclaimer. It is important to recognize that guidelines ship (ie, the degree to which an association might reasonably cannot always account for individual variation among be interpreted by an independent observer as related to the Guidelines on the Use of Vaccines for the Prevention of Seasonal COVID-19, Influenza, and RSV Infections in Immunocompromised Patients • CID • 5 Downloaded from by guest on May topic or recommendation of consideration). The following hematologic patients following
