SHORT REPORT
KEYWORDS: women, sexual, genital, diagnosed, risk, sti, partners, transmission, chlamydia, gonorrhoea, prevalence, disease, female, results, sexually


Sexually transmitted infections in women who have sex with women J V Bailey, C Farquhar, C Owen, P Mangtani ............................................................................................................................... SexTransmInfect2004;80:244–246.doi: the results from the complete study population focusing on Objectives:To describe the prevalence of sexually trans- sexualhistoryandotherriskfactorsforSTI. mitted infection (STIs) in a sample of women who have sex A GU examination comprised cervical and urethral Gram with women (WSW) and to identify risk factors for the stained smear and culture for Neisseria gonorrhoeae, cervical acquisitionofSTI. swab for Chlamydia trachomatis by ELISA, and high vaginal Method:Cross sectional survey. Questionnaire for demo- samples for Trichomonas vaginalis by wet preparation. Gram graphic,sexualhistory,andsexualpracticedatalinkedwith stained vaginal preparations were taken for Candida sp the results of genitourinary examination. 708 new patients identification and culture. Bacterial vaginosis (BV) was attendingtwosexualhealthclinicsforlesbiansandbisexual diagnosed using Amsel’s criteria. Screening for treponemal womeninLondonweresurveyed. disease used the Venereal Disease Research Laboratory Results:A majority of WSW reported sexual histories with (VDRL) test and the Treponema pallidum haemagglutination assay (TPHA). Herpes simplex cultures were performed as men (82%). Bacterial vaginosis and candida species were clinically indicated and genital warts were diagnosed by commonly diagnosed (31.4% and 18.4% respectively). visual inspection. Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) was Genital warts, genital herpes, and trichomoniasis were diagnosed on clinical examination with a raised white cell infrequentlydiagnosed(1.6%,1.1%,and1.3%respectively). count. Chlamydia, pelvic inflammatory disease, and gonorrhoea infectionswererare(0.6%,0.3%,and0.3%respectively)and Statistical analysis diagnosedonlyinwomenwhohadhistoriesofsexwithmen. DiagnosisofoneormoreSTIs(excludingcandidaandBV)in Conclusions:Although we have demonstrated a low pre- women who had had a GU screen was the outcome of valenceofSTI,WSWmayhavesexualhistorieswithmenas interest.Variablesreachingstatisticalsignificanceatthelevel well as women or histories of injecting drug use, and are of p,0.1 in univariate analysis were included in a multi- therefore vulnerable to sexually transmitted or blood borne variate model, as well as variables related to STI in other infections. Diagnosis of trichomoniasis, genital herpes, and studies.Alogisticregressionmodelwasbuiltupinastepwise genitalwartsinthreewomenwhohadnohistoryofsexwith fashion,usingthelikelihoodratiotestandobservingchange men implies that sexual transmission between women is inoddsratios. possible. RESULTS Description of the sample (n=708) Themajorityofthesample(92%)identifiedaslesbian,7%as herearenoroutinelycollecteddataconcerningtransmis- bisexual; 65% were employed, 21% were unemployed, and T sion of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) between 10% were students. Most (90%) came into the category of womenintheUnitedKingdom.Datafromgenitourinary whiteethnicity,andthesamplehadameanageof31years medicine (GUM) clinics analysed by the Public Health (SD6.4).Fiftyfivepercentwereasymptomatic. Laboratory Service Communicable Disease Surveillance Centredonotincludefemalehomosexualcontact.1 Prevalence of sexually transmitted infections Health carers may make the assumption that having a There were no significant differences in prevalence of STIs lesbian identity precludes sexual activity with men or that whenstratifiedbyhistoryofsexwithmen(table1).However transmission of STI between women is unlikely.2 We PID, chlamydia and gonorrhoea were diagnosed only in
