National Guidelines Not Always Followed When
KEYWORDS: patients, snptb, clinicians, sputum, guidelines, results, bntp, records, study, ptb, hiv, use, treatment, diagnosis, culture


a positive culture result for Mycobac- clinicians were collected on the number of sputum smear results teriumtuberculosis(MTB);or(iii)aninabilitytoproducesputumand used; period of cough considered; antibiotic trial prior to highly suspicious radiological andclinical findings whichpoint to diagnosis; use of CXR; other methods (blood culture, sputum PTB . culture for organisms other than MTB, etc) used to exclude or InpatientswithHIVinfection,itisoftendifficulttoconfirmthe confirm PTB. Additional data from clinicians were collected on diagnosis of PTB by direct sputum examination. Botswana has a reasons for difficulties encountered when applying the 2007 national HIV prevalence of 17.6% , thus the frequency of BNTP guidelines in practice. Data were captured using SNPTBisalsoexpectedtobehigh,withonestudyreporting22% Microsoft Excel 2003. Epi-Info version 3.4.3 was used for of PTB cases being SNPTB . Furthermore, in resource- descriptive statistical analyses. This study involved review of constrained settings, the quality of smear microscopy is often patient files. As it was not possible to obtain informed consent suboptimalduetoinadequatesputumcollection,incorrectstorage, from patients, all personal identifiers were delinked from the poorstaining,readingerrors,orpoorlaboratoryservices.This records. Ethics approval was obtained from both the Medunsa in excessive early mortality compared with patients with smear- conveniently selected and the name has not been revealed in positivePTB[2,8–9].Insub-SaharanAfrica,TBisoftenthefirst this report in order to maintain confidentiality. manifestation of HIVinfection, and isthe leading cause of death among HIV-infected patients. SNPTB patients do transmit TB Results infection to others although to a lesser extent when compared tosmear-positive patients. A total of 281 files (128 inpatients and 153 outpatients) were Weinvestigatedtheclinicians’useoftheBNTPguidelines,use available that fulfilled the inclusion criteria. Seven of the eight ofothermethodstoruleoutotherlungdiseasesorconfirmMTB, clinicians given questionnaires completed them. The eighth and reasons for difficulties in applying the guidelines in practice clinician went on extended leave out of the country without when diagnosing SNPTB in HIV-positive patients at a district returning thequestionnaire. hospital in Botswana. SNPTB management in HIV positive patients had not changed since the 2003 edition of the BNTP Use of Guidelines guidelines and this study was conducted just prior to Botswana Data on variables stipulated in the guidelines (three sputum introducing the World Health Organization’s (WHO) 2010 results;acoughforatleasttwoweeks;CXRfindings;andatrialof Treatment of Tuberculosis Guidelines , and provides valuable antibiotics)wereavailablefromtheinpatients’records.Therewere baselineinformationthatcanbeusedwhenevaluatingcompliance no data available concerning the response to antibiotics in totheWHO guidelinesin thefuture. outpatients’ records. Of the SNPTB inpatients’ and outpatients’ records reviewed, 5.5% (7/128) and 17.6% (27/153) respectively Methods showed that they were started on TB treatment according to BNTP guidelines. Also, 99.6% (280/281) of patients diagnosed The study was carried out at a 177
