National Guidelines Not Always Followed When
KEYWORDS: patients, snptb, clinicians, sputum, guidelines, results, bntp, records, study, ptb, hiv, use, treatment, diagnosis, culture


17.6% (27/153) respectively Methods showed that they were started on TB treatment according to BNTP guidelines. Also, 99.6% (280/281) of patients diagnosed The study was carried out at a 177 bed district hospital in with SNPTB had received a CXR, while 47.0% (132/281) were the southern region of Botswana, which sees approximately startedonTBtreatmentwithoutsputumresults.Theseresultsare 77000 patients annually (outpatients and inpatients). The shown inTable 1. gynecological services. There is a radiology department where Use of Other Methods CXRs are performed, and a microbiology laboratory with Of the records reviewed 2.1% (6/281) showed that other expertise in sputum microscopy for AFB, and microscopy, methodswereusedtoruleoutotherrespiratoryconditionsaswell culture and antibiotic sensitivity testing for infections other than astoconfirmthepresenceofMTB.Thesemethodsaredescribed MTB. The reference laboratory where MTB culture is inTable 2. performed, is sixty kilometers from the facility. By 2008 the prevalence of HIV in the general population in this district was Reasons for having Difficulties Applying the BNTP approximately 16.3% . There were two study populations for this study: (1) records of HIV-positive patients with SNPTB Guidelines in Practice (HIV diagnosis made after a parallel test of whole blood with All seven clinicians experienced that some patients with Uni-GoldTM [Trinity Biotech, Plc] and KHBTM Rapid HIV test suspected PTB were not able to produce sputum for analysis. kits), and (2) general practitioners who diagnose and treat these Four found that patients did not submit sputum on two patients in the general outpatient department or the medical consecutive days. Five reported that the long turnover time of ward for admitted patients. All available hospital records with the results from the laboratory had an effect on the flow of their complete data of HIV-positive patients, 15 years and above, management. One did not trust the accuracy of the laboratory who completed treatment for SNPTB from 2006–2009 inclu- results. Three feared losing patients during investigations. Three reviewed retrospectively for medical history and investigations guidelineswerenotrelevanttoclinicalpractice.Allsevenreported requested/conducted. A self-administered questionnaire with the absence of the lung disease physician. Four reported that (a) closed-ended questions regarding practices in diagnosing the lack of feedback from the BNTP on the clinicians’ practice SNPTB, was pilot-tested among general practitioners working contributed to their difficulties with using the guidelines, and (b) in clinics in the same district. Written informed consent was feedback from BNTP would make a difference in their clinical obtained from all 8 general practitioners diagnosing and treating practice. SNPTB HIV-positive patients at the hospital before giving
