National Guidelines Not Always Followed When
KEYWORDS: patients, snptb, clinicians, sputum, guidelines, results, bntp, records, study, ptb, hiv, use, treatment, diagnosis, culture


this bias was unavoidable. Furthermore, theguidelinesirrelevantordifficulttouseinclinicalpractice.This clinicians’ use of the guidelines was self-reported, and although difficulty is compounded by the absence of a lung disease anonymitywasensuredtoencourageparticipantstobecompletely CXRs as well as atypical clinical presentations. All clinicians the self-reports and patients’ files regarding the use of other reported this as a reason for finding it difficult to use the BNTP methods, points to information bias. Finally, the 2007 BNTP guidelines. The sensitivity of sputum microscopy is low especially guidelineswerereplacedmid2012bytheWHO2010Treatment in patients co-infected with HIVdue toa lower rate of caseation of Tuberculosis Guidelines . However, as there is a limited necrosis,andconsequentlowernumbersofAFBintheairway number of GeneXpert machines, which allow for same-day and this could be the reason why one clinician did not trust the sputum results, being introduced in the country, there is limited accuracy of thelaboratory results. use of theWHO 2010 guidelines and the 2007 BNTP guidelines There is a discrepancy between the clinicians’ reported are still being followed in some districts without access to this frequency of use of other methods to diagnose other pulmonary relatively newtechnology. diseases or to confirm PTB, and the number of times other methodsareactuallyusedaccordingtotherecords.Althoughthe Conclusions additionalinvestigationsarenotmentionedasstandardofcarein the guidelines, the expectation was that additional investigations AhighproportionofSNPTBdiagnoseswerenotsupportedby whichareeasilyavailableatthehospitalorwithinreach,wouldbe anylaboratoryinvestigation.Interventionsneedtobeemployedto performed. However, only 2.1% of the records reviewed showed ensure that guidelines are followed when making a diagnosis of thatadditionalinvestigationsweredone.Thiscouldbedueaswell SNPTB, as the wrongly labeled SNPTB cases will strain the to non-uniform reporting and poor record keeping by meagre resources of the BNTP. A larger survey is recommended clinicians.Alternatively,cliniciansmayhaveover-reportedtheuse so that the general trend of the clinicians’ practice throughout ofothermethods.Thefindingthat47.0%ofSNPTBcaseshadno Botswanacanbeevaluated.Thisstudyprovidesvaluablebaseline sputum smear results suggests that sputum is not routinely information that can be used when evaluating compliance to the collected or submitted by patients. Sputum microscopy and WHO 2010guidelineswhichare being introduced. cultureareveryimportanttoruleoutotherrespiratoryinfections, aswasnotedinaUgandanstudywherepatientssuspectedofPTB Acknowledgments were found to have Pneumocystis (carinii) jiroveci (38.6%), MTB This study was made possible by the assistance of the district hospital (24%), pulmonary Kaposi’s sarcoma (11%), pyogenic bacteria records team, Mr. Duncan and Mr. Molatlhegi, who assisted with (8%) and no obvious cause for the remainder, when their sputa retrievingtherelevantrecords,andtheparticipatingdoctors.Theauthors were sent for microscopy and culture . Thus misdiagnosis of extend their gratitude to Prof. R. Colebunders for reviewing the PTB can be reduced if appropriate investigations are conducted, manuscript. particularly incountries withhigh HIVburdens. In contrast, all clinicians reported performing CXRs before Author Contributions making a diagnosis of SNPTB, and this was confirmed by the Conceivedanddesignedtheexperiments:TAT.Analyzedthedata:TAT.
