Central Causes of Amenorrhea
KEYWORDS: gnrh, secretion, normal, amenorrhea, hypothalamic, patients, pituitary, leptin, women, kisspeptin, levels, low, functional, increased, hypothalamic amenorrhea


ABSTRACT Normal ovulatory menstrual cycles reflect a coordination of an intact hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian unit. This process involves neuroendocrine messaging between the hypothalamus, pituitary, and gonads. Common central causes of amenorrhea include functional hypothalamic anovulation, exercise-associated anovulation, pharmacologic-induced anovulation, psychiatric associated disorders such as anorexia nervosa and bulimia, and genetic-developmental defects of the gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) neuronal unit. While brain radiation, trauma or a congenital deficiency of gonadotropins can certainly result in amenorrhea, many more common subtle factors can also affect this pathway. Neuroendocrine regulation of ovulation involves the interaction between neurons secreting GABA, kisspeptin, and neurokinin which modulate the function of GnRH neurons. There is also a link between the reproductive axis, nutritional-energy balance status, and dysregulation of two key peptides, leptin and ghrelin, that occurs when there are extreme, nutritionally stressful conditions such as with anorexia nervosa, extreme exercise, or starvation. In the evaluation of patients with central amenorrhea, the history and physical are crucial to determine the laboratory evaluation and if brain imaging is required. Understanding the patient’s goals will allow an individualized treatment regimen, as it will likely differ if the patient desires children imminently. For complete analysis of this and all areas of Endocrinology, please visit our FREE web-textbook, www.endotext.org . Introduction The hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian axis must be fully synchronized for normal ovulation and successful reproduction. Factors that modulate hypothalamic gonadotropin hormone releasing hormone (GnRH) include pubertal maturation, alterations in energy balance, body composition and metabolism, and stress and emotional changes. Disruption of normal menstrual cycles and normal ovulation are often associated with a variety of life style factors such as excessive exercise, nutritional deprivation, and psychological stress. In the vast majority of cases, this is associated with normal neuroanatomic findings. In a small subset, neuroendocrine abnormalities such as isolated gonadotropin deficiency (Kallmann syndrome), head trauma, radiation effects, Sheehan syndrome, and pituitary apoplexy are identified (see Table 1). Regardless of the etiology, the final common pathway is a change in the normal pattern of episodic secretion by the GnRH pulse generator resulting in disruption of ovulation and amenorrhea. These types of disorders will be discussed in this chapter. Table 1. Classification of Anovulation Associated with the CNS Hypothalamic-Pituitary System View in own window Functional Hypothalamic Anovulation Exercise-related factors Nutritional factors Psychogenic or stress factors Physiologic Anovulation Prepubertal phase Postpartum phase Breastfeeding phase Pharmacologic-Associated Anovulation Opiate agonist Dopaminergic agonist Psychiatric-Associated Disorders Pseudocyesis Anorexia nervosa Bulimia Organic Defects of
