Central Causes of Amenorrhea
KEYWORDS: gnrh, secretion, normal, amenorrhea, hypothalamic, patients, pituitary, leptin, women, kisspeptin, levels, low, functional, increased, hypothalamic amenorrhea


factors Nutritional factors Psychogenic or stress factors Physiologic Anovulation Prepubertal phase Postpartum phase Breastfeeding phase Pharmacologic-Associated Anovulation Opiate agonist Dopaminergic agonist Psychiatric-Associated Disorders Pseudocyesis Anorexia nervosa Bulimia Organic Defects of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Unit Kallmann syndrome Isolated gonadotropin deficiency Pituitary tumors Sheehan syndrome Pituitary apoplexy/aneurysm Empty sella syndrome Inappropriate prolactin secretion Infection (human immunodeficiency virus, tuberculosis) Head trauma Post-radiation effects NEUROENDOCRINE CONTROL OF GNRH SECRETION DURING THE REPRODUCTIVE CYCLE Prior to the existence of laboratory techniques to assess gonadotropin secretion, physicians relied on clinical judgement to arrive at the diagnosis of central amenorrhea (1). The advent of the radioimmunoassay in the late 1960s paved the way for a laboratory diagnosis of this disease. The secretion of endogenous GnRH is difficult to assess in the human because this decapeptide is rapidly metabolized within 2 to 4 minutes in the peripheral circulation. Thus, it is not possible to directly assess GnRH secretion and the majority of clinical investigations utilize frequent measurements of LH concentrations as the surrogate marker for hypothalamic GnRH secretion. In women with regular menstrual cycles, clinical studies have demonstrated a characteristic pulsatile secretion of LH at a frequency of 90-120 minutes during the follicular phase and a frequency of 180-240 minutes during the luteal phase (2). Small alterations in LH pulsatile frequency and or amplitude can result in a range of disorders including luteal phase defects, oligo-ovulation and anovulation. Thus, most studies have examined for changes in LH pulsatile frequency and amplitude as the major endpoint in studies to investigate functional hypothalamic amenorrhea. Puberty Normal female pubertal development requires an elaborate orchestration of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis. Prepubertal girls have low LH, FSH, and estradiol. Prepubertal girls respond with a rise in gonadotropin secretion (predominantly FSH) in response to exogenous GnRH administration (3). This response indicates that the hypothalamic GnRH pulse generator is less active during this period of development. At pubertal onset there is a distinct diurnal variation as the gonadotropins rise (4). Although the exact triggers at the time of puberty are poorly understood, there are three distinct changes that are observed in the hypothalamic-pituitary unit (5). A nocturnal sleep-related augmentation of pulsatile LH secretion begins as a result of the increase in GnRH pulsatility. The sensitivity set point of the hypothalamus to estradiol and testosterone decreases, thereby resulting in an increased basal gonadotropin secretion. In the female, a positive feedback capability develops, and critical levels of estradiol can
