Central Causes of Amenorrhea
KEYWORDS: gnrh, secretion, normal, amenorrhea, hypothalamic, patients, pituitary, leptin, women, kisspeptin, levels, low, functional, increased, hypothalamic amenorrhea


of the hypothalamus to estradiol and testosterone decreases, thereby resulting in an increased basal gonadotropin secretion. In the female, a positive feedback capability develops, and critical levels of estradiol can trigger a large release of GnRH, and subsequently LH, leading to ovulation. Central axis control of gonadotropins The effect of estradiol on the CNS is generally dichotomous. While E2 sensitizes the pituitary gonadotrophs to GnRH by inducing GnRH receptor expression, it also suppresses the release of GnRH from the hypothalamus (6). This "negative feedback" is the dominant effect of estradiol for the vast majority of the ovulatory cycle. The negative control of gonadotropin release is augmented by inhibin secreted from ovarian granulosa cells. Unlike other endocrine systems, continued exposure to higher levels of estradiol (>250 pg/mL) for prolonged duration (>48hours) produced by the dominant ovarian follicle results in a sudden release of a GnRH-LH surge termed "positive feedback" that triggers ovulation at midcycle (7). Neuroendocrine regulation of ovulation During embryogenesis in primates, the GnRH cells migrate from the nasal placode into the bilateral arcuate nuclei in the mid-hypothalamus. The neurons of the arcuate nucleus that target the GnRH cells synapse with incoming axons from extrahypothalamic brain areas such as the amygdala, hippocampus, and cortex that target the GnRH cells. Conceptually, these interneuronal connections release excitatory (E) or inhibitory (I) neurotransmitters. Variations in the synaptic balance of these neurotransmitters exist during the ovulatory cycle. During negative feedback, the E/I ratio is low and during positive feedback the E/I ratio is high (8). Gamma amino isobutyric acid (GABA) neurotransmitters are primarily associated with inhibitory GnRH activity, while kisspeptin and neurokinin are associated with excitatory GnRH activity (9). Estradiol effects on GnRH pulsatility appears to be mediated by altering the E/I ratio through synaptogenesis and synaptolysis of neuronal pathways targeting GnRH secretion (10). During the bulk of the cycle (negative feedback) the effect of E2 is synaptogenic and induces neurotransmitters with a net inhibition of GnRH secretion. In contrast, during the pre-ovulatory phase (positive feedback), estradiol triggers synaptolysis, thereby causing the ovulatory surge. Kisspeptins are G protein-coupled receptor ligands originally identified as human metastasis suppressor gene products that have the ability to suppress melanoma and breast cancer metastasis. These peptides have recently been found to play an important role in initiating the secretion of GnRH at puberty (11). Kisspeptin, encoded by the KISS1 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 1
