Central Causes of Amenorrhea
KEYWORDS: gnrh, secretion, normal, amenorrhea, hypothalamic, patients, pituitary, leptin, women, kisspeptin, levels, low, functional, increased, hypothalamic amenorrhea


found to play an important role in initiating the secretion of GnRH at puberty (11). Kisspeptin, encoded by the KISS1 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 1 (1q32) and is a peptide consisting of 145 amino acids. In the brain, the gene is transcribed within the hippocampal dentate gyrus and activates the G protein-coupled receptor GPR54. In 2003 the discovery of the necessary role kisspeptin has in puberty led to the understanding of the neuroendocrine effect on human reproduction (12). The GnRH neurons of primates, rodents and sheep are found in close apposition with kisspeptin neurons. GnRH neurons express the kisspeptin receptor, and when kisspeptin is incubated with hypothalamic explants, it stimulates the release of GnRH. This effect is not observed in kisspeptin receptor knockout mice. While GnRH neurons show an increase in firing rate in vitro following kisspeptin treatment, this effect is attenuated by the application of a kisspeptin receptor antagonist. The discovery of inactivating mutations in the kisspeptin/GPR54 further ascertained its role in human reproduction. In humans, inactivating GPR54 mutations are associated with normosmic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism while activation of GPR54 signaling is associated with precocious puberty. Central and peripheral administration of kisspeptin stimulates the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis while pre-administration of a GnRH antagonist abolishes this effect. Collectively, these observations strongly suggest that kisspeptin can be a primary mediator for activation of GnRH neurons. All of the current studies initiating puberty with exogenous kisspeptin were performed on monkeys and rodents; however, one study demonstrated return of reproductive hormone production in women with hypothalamic amenorrhea who received twice-weekly kisspeptin injections for 8 weeks (13). Another potential clinical application for kisspeptin is to use it as a trigger for the LH surge during ovulation induction for in vitro fertilization (IVF). It has been shown to effectively induce oocyte maturation, and may be a more physiologic mechanism for inducing ovulation than hCG, which is currently used for ovulation induction. There is speculation that a kisspeptin trigger may also decrease the risk for ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome; however, studies comparing kisspeptin and a GnRH agonist need to be completed prior to recommending the use of kisspeptin (14). Further studies are ongoing to further establish the role of kisspeptin in restoring reproductive function in certain conditions. Modulation of GnRH Secretion by Opioidergic, Dopaminergic, and Excitatory Amino Acids Animal studies have shown that other neurotransmitter systems such as dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin can regulate
