Central Causes of Amenorrhea
KEYWORDS: gnrh, secretion, normal, amenorrhea, hypothalamic, patients, pituitary, leptin, women, kisspeptin, levels, low, functional, increased, hypothalamic amenorrhea


in certain conditions. Modulation of GnRH Secretion by Opioidergic, Dopaminergic, and Excitatory Amino Acids Animal studies have shown that other neurotransmitter systems such as dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin can regulate GnRH or LH secretion. These studies suggest that activation of the noradrenergic system is associated with increased release of GnRH whereas dopaminergic or serotonergic activation can either inhibit or stimulate GnRH release (15-21). These observations can explain in part the CNS-associated disruption of normal menstrual cycles in patients who take phenothiazine (dopamine receptor antagonists), stimulants, antidepressants, and sedatives on a chronic basis. Excitatory amino acids such as glutamate and aspartate have been shown to be localized to the arcuate nucleus in the media basal hypothalamus adjacent to GnRH neurons and have been implicated in a regulatory role for GnRH secretion primarily during pubertal maturation (22). These two amino acids appear to activate GnRH secretion during puberty in monkeys. Endogenous opiates peptides such as endorphins, enkephalins, and dynorphins appear to play largely an inhibitory role in GnRH and LH secretion. The same functional neuronal network that secretes kisspeptin also co-secrete dynorphin, and collectively it is known as the kisspeptin-neurokinin B-dynorphin (KNDY) pathway (23). KNDy neurons in the infundibular/arcuate nucleus have an effect on GnRH by influencing both the GnRH cell body and the neurosecretory terminals. Given the KNDy cells express both neurokinin B receptors and the kappa opioid peptide receptor (dynorphin receptor), it is suspected that the stimulatory role of neurokinin B and the inhibitory role of dynorphin work together to cause a pulsatile release of kisspeptin, which results in a GnRH pulsatile release (24). In patients with hypothalamic amenorrhea, blockade of endogenous opiate receptors with the receptor antagonists such as naloxone or naltrexone (dynorphin antagonists) will induce an increase an increase in pulsatile release of GnRH and LH (25). Long term treatment of hypothalamic amenorrhea patients with naltrexone can result in return of normal menstrual cycles in some individuals (26). These findings indirectly suggest that endogenous opiate activity is suppressing GnRH secretion. The use of an inhibitory neurotransmitter may be beneficial in patients who require a suppression of GnRH or LH secretion. For example, patients with PCOS generally have a dysregulation of gonadotropin secretion which likely contributes to irregular ovulation may benefit from exogenous regulation of the opiate peptides (27). LINKAGE BETWEEN NUTRITIONAL STATUS AND HYPOTHALAMIC AMENORRHEA For many years, clinicians have sought to identify the functional link between nutritional
