Central Causes of Amenorrhea
KEYWORDS: gnrh, secretion, normal, amenorrhea, hypothalamic, patients, pituitary, leptin, women, kisspeptin, levels, low, functional, increased, hypothalamic amenorrhea


may benefit from exogenous regulation of the opiate peptides (27). LINKAGE BETWEEN NUTRITIONAL STATUS AND HYPOTHALAMIC AMENORRHEA For many years, clinicians have sought to identify the functional link between nutritional status and reproduction. Recent identification of neuropeptides that alter feeding behaviors has provided a physiological mechanism to explain the shutdown of the H-P-O axis for individuals who experience significant changes in nutritional status (i.e. starvation and obesity). Two key peptides, leptin and ghrelin have been identified and appear to regulate feeding behavior which may mediate the dysregulation of the reproductive axis under extreme, nutritionally stressful conditions. Leptin is a 16 Kd, 167 amino acid polypeptide that was first isolated in 1994. This peptide is a product of the ob gene. Based on phylogenetic studies, leptin is conserved and has been identified in amphibians, rat, sheep, and human (28). Leptin is primarily produced by the adipocytes but has also been shown to be synthesized in other tissues such as skeletal muscle, heart, stomach, and the placental-fetal unit. Leptin is a member of the cytokine family and is classified as an anorexigenic peptide. Other peptides in this class include pro-opiomelanocortin and the cocaine and amphetamine-regulated transcription peptides. Leptin’s action is opposed by orexigenic peptides such as neuropeptide Y and the agouti-related peptide. Leptin is known to circulate in two forms: as a free form and as a bound form complexed to soluble leptin-binding proteins or to circulating leptin receptors. Physiological studies demonstrate that leptin is secreted in a pulsatile manner with a diurnal rhythm. Current commercial assays for leptin appear to measure total leptin in the serum compartment. Transport of leptin into the brain has been described as unidirectional through the blood brain barrier into brain tissue. For patients with HA, most studies report a decrease in total circulating leptin with a loss of the normal diurnal rhythm (29). This lower leptin level is a common characteristic of several energy-deficient conditions and is associated with a decrease of the LH pulse frequency. There have now been six receptor isoforms described for leptin. These receptors have been localized to the brain, ventral hypothalamus, lung, kidney, pancreas, adrenals, ovaries, skeletal muscle, and hematopoietic stem cells. Within the brain, the arcuate nucleus appears to have the greatest concentrations of leptin receptors (as well as GnRH receptors). Binding of leptin to its receptor causes functional dimers to form and activates the JAK/STAT3 intracellular signaling pathways. The
