Central Causes of Amenorrhea
KEYWORDS: gnrh, secretion, normal, amenorrhea, hypothalamic, patients, pituitary, leptin, women, kisspeptin, levels, low, functional, increased, hypothalamic amenorrhea


the greatest concentrations of leptin receptors (as well as GnRH receptors). Binding of leptin to its receptor causes functional dimers to form and activates the JAK/STAT3 intracellular signaling pathways. The effects of leptin on GnRH release may be mediated through kisspeptin. The leptin receptor (Ob-Rb) is not expressed by GnRH neurons of the hypothalamus. However Ob-Rb mRNA is found in 40% of Kiss1 mRNA-expressing cells of the arcuate nucleus (30). The expression of Kiss1 mRNA in the mutated leptin receptors is reduced in comparison with wild-type mice. Furthermore, the expression of Kiss1 mRNA has been shown to be influenced by nutritional status. In pre-pubertal rats, which have been food deprived for 72 h, the hypothalamic expression of Kiss1 mRNA is markedly reduced (31). In contrast to leptin, ghrelin, another energy-balance peptide, was found to be elevated in individuals with HA. Ghrelin is a 28-amino acid orexigenic peptide that was first isolated in the stomach and is a potent stimulus to GH release. In the fasting state, ghrelin serves as the hunger signal from the periphery to the CNS, acting on the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus, a region which is known to control food intake. Based on these relationships, it is tempting to rationalize that leptin and ghrelin simply serve as natural on/off switches for regulation of feeding behavior. Functional Hypothalamic Amenorrhea A practical definition of functional hypothalamic amenorrhea (HA) is the absence of menstrual cycles for more than 6 months without evidence of anatomic or organic abnormalities (32). Three main types of functional hypothalamic amenorrhea have been recognized, associated with stress, weight loss, or exercise (33). Other more serious organic disorder can mimic HA such as isolated gonadotropin deficiency (see table 1). Thus, this diagnosis should be made after exclusion of other causes. HA is associated with increased cortisol secretion that reflects increased activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis (34). There appears to be an increased secretion of a "stress response complex" of hormones such as CRH, ACTH, cortisol, PRL, oxytocin, vasopressin, norepinephrine, and epinephrine (TABLE 2). CRH has been shown to directly inhibit GnRH secretion in rats, monkeys, and humans at the hypothalamic level in in vitro and in vivo experimental models. This inhibition can be negated by administration of a CRH receptor antagonist or by naloxone, an opiate receptor antagonist. Taken together, these observations suggest that the inhibitory effect of CRH is mediated in part by increased opioidergic activity.
