Central Causes of Amenorrhea
KEYWORDS: gnrh, secretion, normal, amenorrhea, hypothalamic, patients, pituitary, leptin, women, kisspeptin, levels, low, functional, increased, hypothalamic amenorrhea


a CRH receptor antagonist or by naloxone, an opiate receptor antagonist. Taken together, these observations suggest that the inhibitory effect of CRH is mediated in part by increased opioidergic activity. The increased secretion of ACTH at the pituitary level may also suppress pituitary response to GnRH. In addition, increased cortisol levels may also dampen pituitary response to GnRH. It must be emphasized that an acute stress response will be unlikely to alter ovulatory function since the H-P-O axis is quite resilient. On the other hand, it appears that chronic environmental stressors lead to long term activation of the HPA axis which in turn can induce ovulatory dysfunction at either the hypothalamic or the pituitary level. Modification of the stress response can restore normal HPO function. The validation for this comes from evidence of complete resumption of normal ovulatory function in women with HA treated with cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) (35). Treated women exhibited increased LH pulsatility and decreased cortisol levels. A similar study at the same institution found that CBT resulted in an increase in leptin and TSH levels, and improved the neuroendocrine and metabolic components of HA (36). This provides evidence that stress-reducing behavioral changes may be successful in restoring normal ovulation and metabolic function in women with HA. A constellation of other neuroendocrine alterations occur in HA. There is a suppression of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis with a resultant decrease in circulating thyroid hormones (37). There also may be a decrease in prolactin secretion as well as alterations in other neurohormones such as melatonin (38). There may be difficulties in recognizing the stressors that have elicited the stress response in FHA since the stressors may not be objective or quantifiable (39). Human stressors often reflect attitudes of self or society. Subjective stressors such as these may not be as easy to quantitate as stressors with objective measures such as food deprivation or outright violence. Evaluation The American Academy of Pediatrics and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists have advocated for menstrual status to be considered a “vital sign” at routine clinical visits, given the importance of estrogen for bone and other tissues (40). Many individuals with this disorder will provide a history of normal menarche and regular menstrual cycles between 26 and 35 days in length. These women typically are intelligent, high-achievers, who are usually thin or of normal body weight. A detailed interview may identify a stressful
