Central Causes of Amenorrhea
KEYWORDS: gnrh, secretion, normal, amenorrhea, hypothalamic, patients, pituitary, leptin, women, kisspeptin, levels, low, functional, increased, hypothalamic amenorrhea


cycles between 26 and 35 days in length. These women typically are intelligent, high-achievers, who are usually thin or of normal body weight. A detailed interview may identify a stressful event or emotional crisis (divorce, relation breakup, death of a friend or relative) preceding the amenorrhea. Other interpersonal and environmental stressors may also be present such as academic pressures, job stresses, or psychosexual problems. A careful review of the patient's current lifestyle including exercise intensity, dietary choices, and the use of sedatives or hypnotics may be helpful in characterizing the psychogenic stress components. The patient may have features of the female athlete triad, which consist of amenorrhea, insufficient caloric intake with or without an eating disorder, and low bone density or osteoporosis. The physical examination should focus on identifying galactorrhea, thyroid dysfunction, and evidence of hyperandrogenemia (i.e., acne, hirsutism). The pelvic examination should be normal except for a thinned vaginal mucosa or absent cervical mucus which are characteristics of hypoestrogenism. Despite these findings, these patients do not usually experience hot flushes. (Table 3, 4) Laboratory evaluation should include FSH, prolactin (PRL), and TSH. Most of the other pituitary hormones should be in the normal range ( Table 4 ). In many patients, the progestin challenge test (medroxyprogesterone acetate 10 mg for 7 days) will demonstrate an absence of withdrawal uterine bleeding or vaginal spotting. This test is a bioassay for the absence of estrogen priming of the endometrium and reflects the chronically low circulating levels of estradiol. The basic defect in women with functional hypothalamic amenorrhea is the failure of the hypothalamus to increase GnRH output in the presence of severe hypoestrogenism. Most investigators believe that there is a slowing of the GnRH pulse generator as reflected by a decrease in peripheral pulsatile LH secretion in these women. The pattern of LH secretion may vary. During the early onset, LH pulse frequency and amplitude may be normal, and in more severe cases, regression to a prepubertal pattern may occur. During recovery from HA, sleep- associated increases may be observed (see Figure 1 ). The pituitary gland is fully functional and capable of synthesizing and release of LH and FSH. However, responses to exogenous GnRH in these individuals may vary depending on the endogenous GnRH priming of the pituitary gland. LH and FSH responses to exogenous GnRH may be absent, normal, or supernormal. In these patients, after a period of priming
