Central Causes of Amenorrhea
KEYWORDS: gnrh, secretion, normal, amenorrhea, hypothalamic, patients, pituitary, leptin, women, kisspeptin, levels, low, functional, increased, hypothalamic amenorrhea


on the endogenous GnRH priming of the pituitary gland. LH and FSH responses to exogenous GnRH may be absent, normal, or supernormal. In these patients, after a period of priming with intravenous pulsatile GnRH (1-2 mg/90 minutes), normal levels of LH and FSH can be restored and responses to exogenous GnRH become normal. Taken together, these observations suggest that endogenous GnRH secretion is deficient and, gonadotropin secretion and ovarian function can be normalized with physiologic replacement of exogenous, pulsatile GnRH. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain is not routinely needed in patients with presumed hypothalamic amenorrhea (41). However, it is indicated in patients who have a history of severe or persistent headaches, persistent vomiting that is not self-induced, central hypothyroidism, hyperprolactinemia or galactorrhea, or a change in thirst, urination, or vision. Figure 1 CLINICAL MANAGEMENT OF FUNCTIONAL HYPOTHALAMIC AMENORRHEA The clinical evaluation of HA should focus on a carefully conducted history and physical examination that reviews life style variables and interpersonal relationships. Since this is a diagnosis of exclusion, significant organic diseases must be excluded (Table 1). In many patients, spontaneous recovery of menstrual function will take place following accommodation to environmental stressors or after modification of life style. Psychological counseling may also be appropriate for these individuals. Because of the functional nature of HA, an individualized and expectant management should be considered the initial approach. In those who remain amenorrheic, periodic evaluation of menstrual status every 4 to 6 months is prudent. In the infertile patient with this diagnosis who fails to resume normal cycles, a trial of low dose clomiphene citrate (25-50 mg for 5 days) is appropriate. In these patients, higher doses of clomiphene may suppress the H-P axis due to the weak estrogenic properties of clomiphene in an already hypoestrogenic environment. For clomiphene failures, use of human menopausal gonadotropins as an alternative method is highly successful. If available, pulsatile administration of GnRH 5 mg/90 minutes intravenously using a modified insulin pump will successfully induce ovulation after a 13 to 14 day treatment period (42). This latter approach is associated with ovulation rates of greater than 90% with generation of a single dominant ovarian follicle and much lower rates of ovarian hyperstimulation. In these patients, corpus luteum support can be maintained with either GnRH or human chorionic gonadotropin 1500 units intramuscularly every three days for 4 doses. For the woman who remains amenorrheic for more than
