Central Causes of Amenorrhea
KEYWORDS: gnrh, secretion, normal, amenorrhea, hypothalamic, patients, pituitary, leptin, women, kisspeptin, levels, low, functional, increased, hypothalamic amenorrhea


luteum support can be maintained with either GnRH or human chorionic gonadotropin 1500 units intramuscularly every three days for 4 doses. For the woman who remains amenorrheic for more than 1 year, the long term risks of hypoestrogenism including reduced bone mineral density and osteoporosis become factors. In young women with persistent hypoestrogenism, the bone mass can decrease at a rate of 2-5% per year for the first three to five years. Dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) is often necessary to convince patients to begin estrogen therapy. The minimal dose of estrogen necessary to conserve bone has been established in menopausal women. At least 0.3 mg of conjugated estrogen, 1 mg of micronized estradiol, or 0.025 mg of transdermal estrogen is necessary to protect against bone loss. Use of a progestin on a cyclic basis such as medroxyprogesterone acetate for 10 to 12 days each month is necessary to ensure regularly shedding of endometrium and prevent endometrial hyperplasia. Calcium and vitamin D supplements may also be taken; however, the primary therapy requires treatment of the underlying process. The use of bisphosphonates in reproductive-aged women should be carefully considered. As previously discussed, Leptin plays a critical role in regulation of kisspeptin and in HA. A possible future treatment for HA may include leptin replacement as it has been shown to restore pulsatility of gonadotropin-releasing hormone and ovulation as well as full development of secondary sexual characteristics in females with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (43). However, the effect of leptin therapy on bone health is unknown. Similarly possible future treatments options may include exogenous kisspeptin. Table 2 Associated Neuroendocrine Abnormalities in Hypothalamic Amenorrhea. Increased daytime cortisol secretion Increased amplitude and duration of nocturnal melatonin secretion Increased nocturnal secretion of GH Elevated CRH levels in cerebral spinal fluid Blunted elevation of PRL, ACTH, and cortisol during the noon meal Table 3 Common Features of Women with Psychogenic Hypothalamic Amenorrhea Single marital status Obsessive-compulsive habits History of significant stressful life events History of sexual abuse History of prior irregular menstrual cycles Normal or thin habitus Tendency to use sedatives or hypnotic drugs Involved in professional occupations High intelligence Table 4 Expected Serum Hormonal Parameters in Functional Hypothalamic Amenorrhea View in own window Hormone Expected Values LH Normal or low FSH Normal or low PRL Normal or low TSH Normal GH Normal or low Estradiol Normal or low ACTH Normal Cortisol Daytime elevation with diurnal variation Testosterone
