Central Causes of Amenorrhea
KEYWORDS: gnrh, secretion, normal, amenorrhea, hypothalamic, patients, pituitary, leptin, women, kisspeptin, levels, low, functional, increased, hypothalamic amenorrhea


Normal or low FSH Normal or low PRL Normal or low TSH Normal GH Normal or low Estradiol Normal or low ACTH Normal Cortisol Daytime elevation with diurnal variation Testosterone Normal or low T 3 Normal T 4 Normal Figure 1 Examples of LH pulsatile secretion at various stages of the hypothalamic-pituitary activation. GnRH-LH secretion can progress from an apulsatile stage; to a high amplitude infrequent pulse stage; to a sleep-entrained pulse stage; and to regular every ninety minute pulse (1). BULIMIA AND ANOREXIA NERVOSA Severe eating disorders such as bulimia and anorexia nervosa are also associated with disruption of reproductive function. Bulimia is characterized by alternating episodes of consumption of large amounts of food over a short time (binge eating) followed by periods of self-induced vomiting, excessive use of laxatives or diuretics and food restriction. The incidence of bulimia is estimated to be 4.5 to 18 percent among high school and college students (44). Bulimia usually begins between the ages of 17 to 25 years. Anorexia nervosa is a severe eating disorder characterized by extreme weight loss (greater than 25% of ideal body weight), body-image disturbance, and an intense fear of becoming obese (45). Anorexia patients are usually between the age of 12 yrs and the mid-thirties and have a bimodal age of onset at 13-14 years and 17-18 years. There is a 90 to 95 % female predominance with the majority of patients coming from Caucasian, middle-class or upper-middle class families. The overall incidence of anorexia ranges from 0.64 per 100,000 to 1.12 per 100,000. The mortality associated with anorexia has been reported to be as high as 9 percent usually secondary to cardiac arrhythmia which is precipitated by electrolyte abnormalities and/or diminished heart muscle mass. Suicide has also been more common (2 to 5%) in patients with anorexia nervosa. These statistics are sobering making it extremely important for the clinician to recognize early signs of this disorder so that appropriate intervention and treatment can be initiated. The clinical features of bulimia and anorexia are listed in Tables 5 and 6. Due to the marked reduction in caloric intake in anorexia, basal metabolism is lowered by decreased conversion of thyroxine to triiodothyroxine to maintain homeostasis. Thyroxine is converted via an alternative pathway to reverse triiodothyroxine, a relatively inactive isoform (Table 7). This protective functional mechanism is also commonly seen in severely ill patients and during prolonged starvation. Anorexics
