Central Causes of Amenorrhea
KEYWORDS: gnrh, secretion, normal, amenorrhea, hypothalamic, patients, pituitary, leptin, women, kisspeptin, levels, low, functional, increased, hypothalamic amenorrhea


via an alternative pathway to reverse triiodothyroxine, a relatively inactive isoform (Table 7). This protective functional mechanism is also commonly seen in severely ill patients and during prolonged starvation. Anorexics also suffer from defects in thermoregulation and are hypothermic. Because secretion of vasopressin is impaired, anorexics also have partial diabetes insipidus and are unable to concentrate their urine. Anorectic and bulimic patients have hyperactivation of the HPA axis (46). Studies show a persistent hypersecretion of cortisol throughout the day with an increase in 24 hour free cortisol secretion. Despite the increased cortisol production, the manifestations of hypercortisolism are not present due to a decrease in cellular glucocorticoid receptors (47). The reduced number of these receptors may also provide an explanation for the incomplete suppression of the pituitary-adrenal axis by dexamethasone. Pituitary CRH responses are also blunted in bulimics and anorectics. As with other stress response syndromes, anorexics have evidence for increased central opioid activity with reported increases in cerebrospinal fluid levels of b-endorphins (48). Hypolepitinemia is commonly seen in women with anorexia. In these patients the low levels of leptin are representative of a chronic energy deficiency (49). Like functional hypothalamic amenorrhea, anorexics have a prepubertal pattern of LH secretion presumably due to marked decrease in GnRH secretion. With weight gain, anorexics can display transitional patterns of LH secretion and may have normal or supranormal responses to GnRH ( Figure 1 ). In some patients, despite return to normal body weight, up to 50% remain anovulatory. Table 5 Common Features of Bulimia Irregular menstrual cycles Dental enamel erosion Acute irritation of esophageal mucosa Esophageal or gastric rupture Hypokalemia Aspiration pneumonia Ipecac poisoning Table 6 Common Features of Anorexia Nervosa Preoccupation with handling of food Bulimic behavior Calorie counting Distortion of body self-image Hyperactivity Obsessive-compulsive personality Increased incidence of past sexual abuse Amenorrhea Constipation Coarse, dry skin Soft, lanugo-type hair Hypothermia with defective thermoregulation Mild bradycardia Cardiac arrhythmia Hypotension Hypokalemia secondary to diuretic or laxative abuse Low bone mass Increased serum beta-carotene levels Anemia Leukopenia Elevated hepatic enzymes Table 7 Neuroendocrine Abnormalities Associated with Anorexia Nervosa Diminished GnRH-LH pulsatile frequency and amplitude Low blood LH and FSH levels Impaired ACTH response to CRH stimulation testing Resistance to dexamethasone suppression Increased ACTH levels Increased 24 hour urinary free cortisol levels Low prolactin levels Low TSH levels High reverse T 3 and low T 3 levels Elevated GH levels Decreased IGF-1 levels Diabetes
