Central Causes of Amenorrhea
KEYWORDS: gnrh, secretion, normal, amenorrhea, hypothalamic, patients, pituitary, leptin, women, kisspeptin, levels, low, functional, increased, hypothalamic amenorrhea


levels Increased 24 hour urinary free cortisol levels Low prolactin levels Low TSH levels High reverse T 3 and low T 3 levels Elevated GH levels Decreased IGF-1 levels Diabetes insipidus The success rates for treatment of anorexia nervosa and bulimia remain low. Therapeutic approaches include behavior modification, group therapy, and individual psychotherapy. Generally, a team approach consisting of a psychiatrist and a general medicine specialist with expertise in eating disorders is desirable. Because of the high mortality rate and the significant morbidity associated with anorexia, it is important to obtain psychiatric consultation and follow-up in all patients with eating disorders. For patients who fail to resume menstrual function even after restoration of body weight, estrogen replacement therapy is indicated. EXERCISE-INDUCED HYPOTHALAMIC AMENORRHEA With the increased participation of women in all types of recreational and competitive athletic activities, health issues related to exercised-induced amenorrhea have become common. Depending on the type of sport and competition level, the incidence of amenorrhea varies from 5 to 25%. The incidence of menstrual irregularities appears to be greatest in sports that favor a low body weight physique such as ballet dancers (6-43%) and middle and long distance runners (24-26%). The incidence appears to be less frequent in bicyclers (12%) and swimmers (12%) (50). In those athletes with menstrual irregularity, LH pulsatility is altered and can range from a decreased frequency to a transitional pattern ( Figure 1 ). It is well known that acute exercise leads to hyperactivation of the HPA axis. Is it the stress of exercise or the low energy availability that alters LH pulsatility in exercising women? This key question has been answered in part by controlled studies in which women undergo dietary caloric restriction imposed in the face of increasing exercise demands. It would appear that LH pulsatility is not disrupted by the stress of exercise but rather LH pulsatility is disrupted because of reduced energy availability (51). It is important to emphasize for so many of these athletes that the “female athlete triad” amenorrhea, osteoporosis, and eating disorders coexist. Management of these patients should emphasize measurement of bone density, counseling about diets, weight changes, trying to keep weight near normal levels, and calcium intakes. Women with exercise-related amenorrhea tend to have impaired lipid and metabolic profiles including an elevated serum total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and triglycerides compared with healthy women (52). One goal of therapy should be to decrease
