Central Causes of Amenorrhea
KEYWORDS: gnrh, secretion, normal, amenorrhea, hypothalamic, patients, pituitary, leptin, women, kisspeptin, levels, low, functional, increased, hypothalamic amenorrhea


to have impaired lipid and metabolic profiles including an elevated serum total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and triglycerides compared with healthy women (52). One goal of therapy should be to decrease the level of exercise, improve the diet, and achieve weight gain. For others, exercise may not induce amenorrhea but may be associated with longer menstrual cycles, luteal phase defects, and intermenstrual spotting. These reproductive defects may be reversible with a decrease in exercise level or intensity. Alternatively, clomiphene given at doses between 25-100 mg for 5 days may increase GnRH pulsatility sufficiently to correct this defect. If amenorrhea persists for over 6 months, it may be prudent to begin estrogen replacement therapy or oral contraceptive pills. Long term health risks in these individuals are reproductive dysfunction and skeletal abnormalities. OTHER CAUSES OF HYPOGONADOTROPINISM Isolated Gonadotropin Deficiency (IGD) This disorder is characterized by a decrease or absence of endogenous GnRH secretion resulting in very low to undetectable LH and FSH levels. Individuals with this disorder have incomplete development of secondary sexual characteristics, primary amenorrhea, eunuchoid features, and in some cases a decreased sense of smell or anosmia (Kallmann syndrome) (53). This disorder can have an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern. IGD has been linked to variance in over 15 genes. Common genetic variants include KAL1, FGFR1, PROKR2, PROK2, CHD7, FGF8, KISS1, KISS1R, TAC3, TACR3, GNRHR, and GNRH1 (54). The underlying defect is due to a failure of GnRH neurons to form completely in the olfactory placode or to migrate from the olfactory bulb to the media basal hypothalamus during early embryo development. For individuals with anosmia or hypo-osmia, there is evidence of hypoplasia of the olfactory bulbs on magnetic resonance scan (55). Baseline levels of LH and FSH may be in the prepubertal or normal range. However, levels of other pituitary hormones such as TSH, GH, PRL, and ACTH are normal. Due to the failure to increase gonadal sex steroid secretion during puberty, secondary sex characteristics fail to develop and closure of the epiphyseal plates of the long bones is delayed resulting in a eunuchoid habitus where the arm span is greater than the height. In many cases individuals are started on birth control pills without the diagnosis being made, such that there is partial or complete development of secondary sexual characteristics. In the untreated patient, breast development is usually Tanner stage I or II while pubic hair development will be Tanner
