Central Causes of Amenorrhea
KEYWORDS: gnrh, secretion, normal, amenorrhea, hypothalamic, patients, pituitary, leptin, women, kisspeptin, levels, low, functional, increased, hypothalamic amenorrhea


there is partial or complete development of secondary sexual characteristics. In the untreated patient, breast development is usually Tanner stage I or II while pubic hair development will be Tanner IV or V. Treatment of IGD will require estrogen therapy to induce progressive pubertal maturation (100 ng/kg/day of ethinyl estradiol). Patients should be monitored at 2 or 3 month intervals to determine the rate of skeletal growth and development. The addition of a progestin such as medroxyprogesterone acetate 10 mg/day for 12 days can then be used to shed the endometrium. Progesterone therapy should only be started after optimal breast development is achieved. Once sexual maturation is completed, the estrogen dose can be gradually increased and maintained on 2 mg of micronized estradiol or 0.625 mg to 1.25 mg of conjugated estrogens with 12 days of progestin each month. When fertility is desired, ovulation induction can be carried out with either human menopausal gonadotropins or pulsatile GnRH administration. Postpartum Pituitary Necrosis (Sheehan Syndrome) Postpartum pituitary necrosis is usually preceded by a history of severe obstetrical hemorrhage with hypotension, circulatory collapse, and shock. After fluid resuscitation of the patient, this condition may be manifested by clinical evidence of partial or panhypopituitarism. Simmonds was the first to describe this clinical syndrome although the most complete description has been attributed to Sheehan (56). This condition constitutes an endocrine emergency that can be life-threatening. The pathophysiology of this process is not entirely clear. With pregnancy, there is an increase in blood supply to the pituitary bed and the pituitary gland enlarges. During the period of profound hypotension, Sheehan postulated that occlusive spasm of the arteries that supply the pituitary and stalk occurs. This leads to venous stasis and thrombosis of the pituitary portal vessels causing a variable degree of pituitary ischemia and cell death. Many patients initially present with a failure to have breast engorgement and lactation due to a deficiency in PRL secretion. These women may also have other anterior pituitary deficiencies. The posterior pituitary is usually spared because it is less dependent on the portal blood supply. In some patients, the absence of ACTH secretion leads to inadequate cortisol secretion resulting in postural hypotension, nausea, vomiting, and lethargy. Hypothyroidism may be noted later in this scenario. However, in the majority of women, there is a diagnostic delay due to the vague symptoms. Recovery of pituitary function has been reported in a few
