Central Causes of Amenorrhea
KEYWORDS: gnrh, secretion, normal, amenorrhea, hypothalamic, patients, pituitary, leptin, women, kisspeptin, levels, low, functional, increased, hypothalamic amenorrhea


later in this scenario. However, in the majority of women, there is a diagnostic delay due to the vague symptoms. Recovery of pituitary function has been reported in a few cases. The extent of pituitary deficiencies can be characterized by provocative testing with a combined intravenous injection of the hypothalamic releasing factors GnRH, TRH, GHRH, and CRH (57). Appropriate replacement therapy can be instituted once the pituitary reserve is defined. For the patient who presents with hypotension, immediate administration of glucocorticoids is required (cortisone acetate 100 mg, IM). Once the patient stabilizes, a maintenance dose of cortisone acetate 20-25 mg/day or prednisone 5 mg/day can be given. With increased stressful conditions such as an infection, a doubling or tripling of daily doses should be used. For hypothyroid patients, thyroxine replacement should be replaced gradually beginning at 50 mg/day and increased at 50 mg increments at 1 week intervals until full replacement doses are reached (0.1 to 0.2 mg/day). Patients should be instructed to wear a medical alert bracelet. Estrogen replacement therapy will be required for persistent amenorrheic patients. If fertility is desired, ovulation induction with exogenous gonadotropins is required. Post-traumatic Hypopituitarism This condition can arise following severe head trauma as a result of a sudden deceleration of the head and occult damage to the pituitary stalk or hypothalamus during a traffic accident (58). Trauma may also be associated with a basal skull fracture or an episode of unconsciousness. The risk for post-traumatic hypopituitarism is generally higher after a severe brain injury requiring neurosurgical interventions than for a mild or moderate injury (59). These individuals will often manifest a delay from injury to presentation of up to 10 years post-injury, possibly due to ongoing atrophy of the sellar and perisellar structures. The symptoms range from partial to complete panhypopituitarism. These symptoms can include amenorrhea, galactorrhea, hypogonadism, loss of axillary and pubic hair, anorexia, and weight loss. For these patients, evaluation of the pituitary-adrenal axis is most important because hypocortisolism can be potentially life-threatening. The diagnostic evaluation and management is similar to that described for Sheehan syndrome. Pituitary Apoplexy This medical emergency is characterized by an acute infarction of the pituitary gland. Patients will complain of a sudden onset of a severe retro-orbital headache and visual disturbances which may be accompanied by lethargy or loss of consciousness (60). These symptoms may mimic other neurological emergencies such as hypertensive encephalopathy, cavernous sinus thrombosis,
