Central Causes of Amenorrhea
KEYWORDS: gnrh, secretion, normal, amenorrhea, hypothalamic, patients, pituitary, leptin, women, kisspeptin, levels, low, functional, increased, hypothalamic amenorrhea


retro-orbital headache and visual disturbances which may be accompanied by lethargy or loss of consciousness (60). These symptoms may mimic other neurological emergencies such as hypertensive encephalopathy, cavernous sinus thrombosis, ruptured aneurysm, or basilar artery occlusion. CT or MRI imaging may indicate hemorrhagic changes in the pituitary sella region. Patients with pituitary tumors are at higher risk for this complication. For some patients, neurosurgical consultation and emergency decompression may become necessary. Provocative testing as describe for Sheehan syndrome should be performed to evaluate for multiple pituitary deficits. Appropriate replacement of target tissue hormones should be instituted based on testing. Post radiation-Induced Hypopituitarism Exposure to therapeutic radiation sources for treatment of midline CNS tumors can place patients at increased risk for delayed development of hypopituitarism (61). In general, sensitivity to radiation is greatest for somatrotropes and gonadotropes, followed by corticotropes and thyrotropes. The onset of pituitary deficiencies may be insidious but can occur within 1 year of radiotherapy. Periodic assessment of hypothalamic-pituitary function should be performed for an indefinite period of time and appropriate replacement hormone therapy should be instituted as these deficiencies develop. SUMMARY In this chapter, we have reviewed a variety of disorders that can disrupt the normal menstrual cycle. Whether the disorder is linked to central organic lesions, changes in life style, or functional, stress components, all appear to have a common pathway(s) resulting in alterations in the secretion of the GnRH pulse generator. REFERENCES Berga S, Naftolin F. Neuroendocrine control of ovulation. Gynecol Endocrinol 2012; Mar;28 Suppl 1:9-13. Filicori M, Santoro N, Merriam GR, Crowley WF. Characterization of the physiological pattern of episodic gonadotropin secretion throughout the human menstrual cycle. J Clin Endocrinol Metabl 1986;62:1136-1144. Reiter EO, Kaplan SL, Conte FA, Grumbach MM. Responsivity of pituitary gonadotropes to luteinizing hormone-releasing factor in idiopathic precocious puberty, precocious thelarche, precocious adrenarche, and in patients treated with medroxyprogesterone acetate. Pediatr Res 1975;9:111–116. Boyar RM, Katz J, Finkelstein JW, Kapen S, Weiner H, Weitzman ED, Hellman L. Anorexia nervosa. Immaturity of the 24-hour luteinizing hormone secretory pattern. N Engl J Med 1974;291:861–865. Marshall JC and Kelch RP. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone: role of pulsatile secretion in the regulation of reproduction. N Engl J Med 1986;315:1459-1468. Naftolin F, Garcia-Segura LM, Horvath TL, Zsarnovszky A, Demir N, Fadiel A, Leranth C, et al. Estrogen-induced hypothalamic synaptic plasticity and pituitary sensitization in the control of the estrogen-induced gonadotrophin surge. Reprod Sci 2007;14:101–116. Liu JH, Yen SSC.
