Adult congenital heart disease - Cardiology Explained - NCBI Bookshelf
KEYWORDS: pulmonary, defect, figure, atrial, asd, septal defect, septal, right, heart, aorta, usually, large, patients, left, atrial septal


Figure 1 The relative incidence of common congenital heart defects. ASD: atrial septal defect; PDA: patent ductus arteriosus; TGA: transposition of the great arteries; VSD: ventricular septal defect. Recognizing adult congenital heart disease There are a few signs that should alert generalists to the possibility of congenital heart disease: murmurs, especially continuous – there are few degenerative diseases that produce continuous murmurs cyanosis, clubbing – unless there is coexistent lung disease, a patient with a murmur and cyanosis should be referred for echocardiography right bundle branch block (RBBB) – this occurs in 1% of the middle-aged population without disease. When combined with a murmur, the patient should be referred for echocardiography In most cases, suspicion of congenital heart disease leads to a cardiology referral. However, an awareness of the possible diagnoses will help your referral. Ventricular septal defect Ventricular septal defect (VSD) (see Figures 2 and 3) is the most common congenital heart defect. Symptoms depend on the size of the defect and the age of the patient. Small VSDs are usually asymptomatic and compatible with a normal life (in fact, about 40% close spontaneously in early childhood). Large VSDs cause cardiac failure in the second or third month after birth. If a large shunt does not produce symptoms during infancy, there is usually little disturbance until late adolescence or early adult life when the patient develops high pulmonary vascular resistance, breathlessness, fatigue, and cyanosis. There is progression to effort syncope, recurrent hemoptysis, and heart failure. Figure 2 Ventricular septal defect. Figure 3 Atrial septal defect. Recognizing VSD 1/6 In VSD patients, the apex beat may be hyperdynamic and there could be a systolic thrill. The classic sign is a loud pansystolic murmur, often accompanied by a mid diastolic murmur at the apex (due to high flow through the mitral valve) (see Table 1). In patients with raised pulmonary vascular resistance, right ventricular hypertrophy (RVH) is evident and the pulmonary second sound might be accentuated, followed by the early diastolic murmur of pulmonary regurgitation. Table 1 Characteristics of atrial septal defect and ventricular septal defect. Note the wide, fixed splitting of the second heart sound in atrial septal defect. With small VSDs, the electrocardiogram (ECG) is normal. With larger ones, there is evidence of biventricular enlargement (tall R waves and deep S waves in leads V1–V6), especially when pulmonary vascular resistance is high. Similarly, with a small defect the chest
