Adult congenital heart disease - Cardiology Explained - NCBI Bookshelf
KEYWORDS: pulmonary, defect, figure, atrial, asd, septal defect, septal, right, heart, aorta, usually, large, patients, left, atrial septal


there is evidence of biventricular enlargement (tall R waves and deep S waves in leads V1–V6), especially when pulmonary vascular resistance is high. Similarly, with a small defect the chest x-ray (CXR) is normal, but with a large shunt there is cardiomegaly and prominence of the pulmonary vessels. Large shunts should be closed surgically. However, if pulmonary hypertension has developed, surgery is usually contraindicated as closing it may worsen the pulmonary hypertension. The main complication of VSD is infective endocarditis. Vegetations may appear at the tricuspid valve, opposite or around the defect, or on the aortic valve. In certain lesions, aortic incompetence may develop due to loss of support of the valve. The prognosis for adults with uncomplicated VSD is good. Few patients have defects large enough to cause serious hemodynamic problems, but all are exposed to the risk of infective endocarditis. Atrial septal defect Three types of atrial septal defect (ASD) can occur: ostium secundum is the most common type (70%). It can be large, but usually does not affect the atrioventricular valves (see Figures 3 and 4) ostium primum – the hole is situated close to the atrioventricular valves and can be associated with an atrioventricular septal defect sinus venosus is a defect situated near the entrance of the superior vena cava (SVC) or inferior vena cava to the right atrium. It is unusual and is often associated with partial anomalous pulmonary venous drainage (usually drainage of the right upper lobe into the SVC) Figure 4 Atrial septal defect (ASD) shown by (a) transesophageal echocardiography, and (b) transesophageal Doppler. Pathophysiology The shunt of blood from the left atrium to the right atrium results in: increased volume load and dilatation of the right atrium and right ventricle (RV) increased pulmonary blood flow and enlargement of the pulmonary arteries increase in size of the pulmonary veins reduced filling of the left ventricle (LV) and aorta 2/6 Over time, the aorta and LV shrink, and pulmonary vascular resistance increases and causes Eisenmenger syndrome (see below). Recognizing ASD Most patients with secundum ASD remain asymptomatic throughout their thirties, but visit their doctor in middle-age with the onset of breathlessness and fatigue (note the nonspecific signs). Symptoms are usually progressive and worsened by the development of atrial arrhythmias. Patients with primum ASD tend to present earlier and with more severe symptoms. The classic sign of ASD is wide, fixed splitting of the second
