Adult congenital heart disease - Cardiology Explained - NCBI Bookshelf
KEYWORDS: pulmonary, defect, figure, atrial, asd, septal defect, septal, right, heart, aorta, usually, large, patients, left, atrial septal


the development of atrial arrhythmias. Patients with primum ASD tend to present earlier and with more severe symptoms. The classic sign of ASD is wide, fixed splitting of the second heart sound, together with a systolic murmur due to high flow across the pulmonary valve (see Table 1). Primum ASD may be accompanied by mitral regurgitation. ECG might indicate RBBB and either RVH and right axis deviation (secundum) or left axis deviation (primum) (see Table 1). CXR may show cardiomegaly with a prominent pulmonary trunk. Management ASDs that are large enough to give clear physical signs should be closed. Closure of an ostium secundum defect is relatively easy and carries a low mortality rate. Correction of an ostium primum defect, with its associated anomalies, is more difficult and carries a higher mortality rate. More recently, percutaneous device closure of small and moderate size ASDs has been possible. In this procedure, a "butterfly" device (eg, the Clamshell occluder, the Starflex occluder, or the Amplatzer occluder) is manipulated noninvasively into the heart and "opened", whereupon it grasps the defect on either side and closes it (see Figures 5 and 6). Figure 5 The Clamshell occluder for closure of an atrial septal defect. IVC: inferior vena cava; LA: left atrium; RA: right atrium. Figure 6 The Amplatzer occluder (a) before and (b) after deployment. Primum ASD requires prophylaxis for infective endocarditis, while secundum ASD does not. Eisenmenger syndrome This is the name given to reversal in the direction of a cardiac shunt caused by the development of pulmonary hypertension. It applies regardless of whether the shunt is atrial or ventricular. Initial flow is always from high pressure (left) to low pressure (right), but pulmonary pressure can rise above systemic pressure and cause a reversal of flow. Signs of pulmonary hypertension are RVH, pulmonary systolic click, and loud pulmonary valve closure. CXR shows large main pulmonary arteries and branches with peripheral pruning. After the development of Eisenmenger physiology, only heart–lung transplantation is of value in management. Bicuspid aortic valve Bicuspid aortic valves often function normally throughout most of a patient's life. However, fibrosis and calcification ultimately lead to aortic stenosis (see Chapter 9, Valve disease) and an eventual requirement for surgical correction. 3/6 Coarctation of the aorta Coarctation of the aorta is a narrowing of the lumen, usually just distal to the origin of the left subclavian artery (see Figure 7). Most commonly, the
