Adult congenital heart disease - Cardiology Explained - NCBI Bookshelf
KEYWORDS: pulmonary, defect, figure, atrial, asd, septal defect, septal, right, heart, aorta, usually, large, patients, left, atrial septal


is surgical closure of the duct; this can be carried out percutaneously. Figure 8 Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA). Fallot's tetralogy Fallot's tetralogy is one of the causes of cyanotic congenital heart disease. The features derive from an abnormally positioned aorta that "over-rides" the interventricular septum (see Figure 9). This causes: Figure 9 Fallot's tetralogy with an "over-riding aorta". perimembranous VSD RV outflow obstruction (pulmonary stenosis) RVH The chief symptom is cyanosis on exercise. Children typically "squat" for relief of dyspnea after exercise (almost pathognomonic). Chest pain, arrhythmia, and congestive heart failure are more common in adults than in children. Clubbing is common. Surgical correction usually involves resection of the hypertrophied RV infundibulum and VSD closure with incorporation of the aorta into the RV. Adult Fallot's patients often suffer impaired exercise capacity due to poor RV function. Transposition of the great arteries In transposition of the great arteries (TGA), the RV connects to the aorta and the LV connects to the pulmonary artery (see Figure 10). The result, following peripartum closure of the foramen ovale, is two parallel circulations – a physiology that is not compatible with life. The neonate would die instantly were it not for the common coexistence of a patent foramen ovale, ASD, VSD, or PDA. In infants, an improvement in symptoms can be achieved by creating a large defect in the atrial septum to allow mixing of the blood between systemic and pulmonary circulations (Rashkind's procedure – see Figure 11). This is performed by passing a balloon catheter into the left atrium via the right atrium. After inflation, the balloon catheter is pulled back forcefully into the right atrium, creating a tear in the septum. This procedure is usually effective in the neonatal period and allows the child to live until the latter part of the first year of life, when the Mustard operation can be performed. This involves rerouting venous return by inserting an intra-atrial baffle. The definitive treatment is the arterial switch operation, in which the arteries are switched back to their appropriate ventricles. The biggest challenge with this procedure is reattaching the coronary arteries, the anatomical organization of which is variable in TGA. In addition, the "low pressure" LV must take on filling of the systemic circulation. Figure 10 Transposition of the great arteries (right-hand image). Figure 11 Balloon atrial septostomy – Rashkind's procedure. ASD: atrial septal defect. Ebstein's anomaly Ebstein's anomaly is the
