Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: des, peppermint, oil, peppermint oil, esophageal, reported, patients, spasm, patient, esophageal spasm, case, motility, use, treatment, study


Open Access Case Report DOI: Role of Peppermint Oil in Diffuse Esophageal Spasm in the Geriatric Population Swetha Parvataneni 1 , Sireesha Vemuri-Reddy 2 System, Lewistown, USA Corresponding author: Swetha Parvataneni, Abstract Diffuse esophageal spasm, also known as distal esophageal spasm (DES), is a rare motility disorder among the population with symptomatic motility disorders. This disorder is most commonly reported in females, with a median age of 60 years. Multiple therapeutic options have been developed for the treatment of DES. There has been limited research regarding the use of peppermint oil in the treatment of DES. Here, we discuss the interesting case of an elderly female patient who received symptomatic relief from peppermint oil. Categories: Internal Medicine, Gastroenterology Keywords: peppermint oil, diffuse esophageal spasm (des), distal esophageal spasm Introduction Distal esophageal spasm (DES) is a rare, idiopathic motility disorder that predominantly affects females, has a mean age of 60 years, and accounts for approximately 3%-9% of symptomatic patients . Multiple pharmacologic therapies have been developed for the treatment of DES. However, there has been limited research regarding the use of carminatives in DES . The medicinal properties of peppermint oil were first reported by Carl Linnaeus in 1753 . The menthol component in peppermint oil is known to promote relaxation of smooth muscle by dampening the effects of acetylcholine, histamine, 5-hydroxytryptamine, and substance P by inhibiting L-type calcium channels . Other studies have evaluated its use in irritable bowel syndrome, dyspepsia, colonic spasm and headache but there is very limited data on the use of peppermint oil in DES. Here, we discuss the interesting case of an elderly female with significant comorbidities who experienced symptom relief from peppermint oil. Case Presentation Received [DATE] Review began [DATE] An 80-year-old female with a past medical history of Alzheimer disease, Parkinson’s disease, Review ended [DATE] brain aneurysm, history of multiple cerebrovascular accidents (CVA) with residual left-sided Published [DATE] weakness, history of transcatheter aortic-valve replacement (TAVR), hypertension, © Copyright 2020 hyperlipidemia, and left ventricular diastolic dysfunction was brought to the emergency room Parvataneni et al. This is an open (ER) by her daughter due to increased confusion, dysuria, sneezing, swallowing issues, and a access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons reported history of combative behavior against family members. At the appointment with the permits unrestricted use, distribution, control her agitated behavior. The patient showed improvement with haloperidol as an and reproduction
