Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: des, peppermint, oil, peppermint oil, esophageal, reported, patients, spasm, patient, esophageal spasm, case, motility, use, treatment, study


history of combative behavior against family members. At the appointment with the permits unrestricted use, distribution, control her agitated behavior. The patient showed improvement with haloperidol as an and reproduction in any medium, outpatient. In the ER, the patient was found to have a sodium level of 121 mEq/L, and urinalysis provided the original author and was positive for infection. Given the evidence of urinary tract infection, the patient was source are credited. managed with intravenous (IV) antibiotics, and her mental status gradually improved. Because How to cite this article Parvataneni S, Vemuri-Reddy S (March 06, 2020) Role of Peppermint Oil in Diffuse Esophageal Spasm in the Geriatric Population. Cureus 12(3): e7192. DOI of her dysphagia, the patient was given a speech and swallow evaluation and was recommended an esophagogram, which was positive for diffuse DES (Figure 1). FIGURE 1: Esophagogram showing diffuse distal esophageal spasm The gastroenterology team was involved in care due to the patient’s dysphagia. Given her multiple comorbidities, a decision was made to treat the DES with peppermint oil rather than nitrates or calcium channel blockers. The patient was started on peppermint oil and discharged to the nursing involve the lower part of the esophagus. This name was adopted from the Chicago classification of esophageal motility disorders . It is a rare, idiopathic motility disorder that predominantly affects females. It is one of the most common causes of non-cardiac-related chest pain after gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) . This latter finding was first reported by Osgood in 1889 in a case series, in which all the patients had constricting pain in the epigastrium; Osler named the disorder “oesophagismus” for the pain, and the manometric 2020 Parvataneni et al. Cureus 12(3): e7192. DOI 2 of 4 description was adopted in 1958 [10-12]. DES is thought to be due to a deficiency of nitric oxide, which results in impaired inhibitory innervation and simultaneous contractions of the esophagus. Multiple studies have reported the most common symptoms in patients with DES; these include dysphagia (32%), chest pain (22%), GERD symptoms (20%), cough, hoarseness (13%), and weight loss is occasionally reported . It is very important to rule other cardiac disorders in elderly patients with significant comorbidities before attributing the symptoms to DES. Esophageal manometry is the gold standard for the diagnosis of DES. Earlier guidelines for DES diagnosis included more than 20% of contractions with an amplitude greater than 30 mm
