Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: des, peppermint, oil, peppermint oil, esophageal, reported, patients, spasm, patient, esophageal spasm, case, motility, use, treatment, study


DES. Esophageal manometry is the gold standard for the diagnosis of DES. Earlier guidelines for DES diagnosis included more than 20% of contractions with an amplitude greater than 30 mm Hg with intermittent normal esophageal peristalsis on manometry. Recently, with the introduction of high-resolution manometry, distal latency has been used as a predictor for the diagnosis of DES . Treatment for DES is focused on providing symptom relief. The available treatment modalities are classified into endoscopic and pharmacologic options. The endoscopic options include peroral endoscopic myotomy, botulinum toxin, and esophageal dilation while the pharmacologic options include nitrates, tricyclic antidepressants, phosphodiesterase inhibitors, and calcium channel blockers. All of the pharmacologic options have significant side effects. Peppermint oil and its benefits in DES have been discussed in the past, but as yet the research is limited. An earlier study, published in 2001, reported eight patients with DES who all showed symptom relief and improvement in manometric findings with peppermint oil (p<0.01) . Another study published in 2019 reported the impact of peppermint therapy on dysphagia and non- cardiac chest pain. Thirty-eight patients were included in the study; among these, 63% of patients reported complete symptom resolution, and the remaining patients reported mild-to- moderate symptom improvement. This study involved not only patients with DES but also those with esophagogastric junction outflow obstruction, hypercontractile esophagus, ineffective esophageal motility, and symptomatic patients with normal motility testing . In our case study, we managed an elderly patient with comorbidities who was best treated with peppermint oil treatment in order to avoid side effects that accompany other medications such as nitrates and calcium channel blockers. Conclusions DES is a rare type of motility disorder. Given the side effects associated with available medications for DES, more research is needed on the use of other treatments such as peppermint oil. Given its lack of adverse events, low cost, and easy availability, additional case reports, case series, and prospective trials are needed in the future to better understand the efficacy of peppermint oil. Additional Information Disclosures Human subjects: Consent was obtained by all participants in this study. Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial support was received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they have no financial relationships at present or within the previous
