REVIEW
KEYWORDS: ibs, microbiota, colonic, microbial, increased, immune, subjects, fecal, etal, associated, ibs-d, studies, functional, bowel, cells


and pathophysiology of nutrients,metabolismofxenobiotics,modulationofmotilityand thesedisorders. improved integrity of the epithelial barrier (Fava and Danese, Therefore, a complex interplay of several factors seem to 2011;Kashyapetal.,2013). underlie the pathophysiology of IBS, but a growing body of Therefore, the GI microbiota contributes to the beneficial evidence supports the role of the GI microbiota and innate effects of food beyond provision of nutrients (Louis et al., immune system alterations (Ford and Talley, 2011). This 2007). It is now accepted that its composition and function narrative review summarizes the current knowledge regarding potentially contribute to the pathophysiology of functional the microbial and immunological mechanisms underlying GI disorders (FGIDs) . These conditions the pathogenesis of IBS. A PubMed search of all available are classified by GI symptoms related to any combination English-language articles to date was conducted, using the of motility disturbance, visceral hypersensitivity, alterations of following search terms: “irritable bowel syndrome,” “functional centralnervoussystemprocessing,immunityandGImicrobiota gastrointestinal disorders,” “microbiota” or “microbiome,” (Schmulson and Drossman, 2017). Irritable bowel syndrome “dysbiosis,” “low-grade inflammation,” “pathophysiology,” (IBS) is the most common and best known of these disorders “immunity,“diet,”“visceralpain,”“motility”and“host-microbe (Choung and Locke, 2011), characterized by abdominal pain interactions.” The search was extended by using the references associatedwithalteredbowelmovementandoftenbloatinginthe of selected recent articles and systematic reviews or meta- absenceofmorphologicalchanges(Encketal.,2016).However, analysis. Host factors, such as microbial dysbiosis, low-grade the mechanisms responsible for FGIDs are poorly understood inflammation,alteredepithelialbarrierfunctionandmotility,as and there is a lack of consensus on what the exact role of the wellasenvironmentalfactors,includingdiet,willbeconsidered microbiotais,andhowchangestoitrelatetotheseconditions. tohelpshedlightontheemergingpathophysiologyofFGIDs. Theconceptofthe“braininthegut”isnotnew(Alexander, 1934). The GI wall contains about 100 million nerve cells IRRITABLE BOWEL SYNDROME AND and more than 70% of the total immune system (Vighi et al., 2008). Microbial and dietary antigens interact with these FUNCTIONAL GASTROINTESTINAL pathways,aidingininducingandmaintaininghomeostasis,while DISORDERS preserving responsiveness to pathogenic stimuli (Tlaskalová- Hogenová et al., 2011). This dynamic network, which involves IBS is a multifactorial condition characterized by chronic theneuroendocrine,immuneandmetabolicpathways,isdefined and relapsing abdominal pain and altered bowel habit. The as the microbiota-gut-brain axis, and autonomously regulates symptoms of IBS can overlap with those of other FGIDs and many GI physiological functions, including motility, secretion, it has been estimated that up to a third of patients with immunity and thereby inflammatory processes (Holzer et al., FGIDs have features of more than one, suggesting a common 2001). This finding has been highlighted in germ-free mice, underlying etiology . IBS has not been found which are characterized by a reduced surface area in the ileum to have a single etiological cause, but
