REVIEW
KEYWORDS: ibs, microbiota, colonic, microbial, increased, immune, subjects, fecal, etal, associated, ibs-d, studies, functional, bowel, cells


the cytokine concentration (Aoki-Yoshida et al., 2016; Bharwani modulation of the immune responses from the host. However, et al., 2016). This suggests that the microbiota is sensitive thisrelationshipexistsinamutualinteractionwheretheadaptive to stress exposure and highlights the importance of analyzing andinnateimmunesystemsarelikelytoshapethecompositionof the microbiota community composition by microbial niche. themicrobiotainreturn.Thishypothesisissupportedbyseveral Maes et al. were the first to demonstrate that psychological arguments, for example, in mice the absence of the myeloid stressinhumansinducesinflammatoryresponseswithincreased differentiationprimaryresponse88,anadapterproteininvolved productionofthepro-inflammatorycytokinesinterferon(IFN)- in toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling leads to Bacteroidetes γ,TNFαandIL-6(Maesetal.,1998).Inaddition,stress-induced overgrowth(Wenetal.,2008).Inaddition,theriskofdeveloping mediators, such as the corticotropin-releasing factor, increased IBS after an episode of gastroenteritis macromolecular permeability in the healthy human colon via suggeststhattheactivationoftheimmunesystembyinfectious corticotropin-releasingfactorreceptoronsubepithelialmastcells triggersincludingbacteria,virusesorparasites,couldimpactthe . These findings may be relevant in the compositionandfunctionofthemicrobialcommunity. context of FGIDs, whose course is likely to be affected by Further evidence of these mutual microbe-immune persistentstress. interactionsinIBSisthepresenceofantibodiesagainstthepro- Crucial host-microbiota-immune interactions in the GI inflammatorybacterialproteinflagellin(Schoepferetal.,2008). tract and in the central nervous system can also be affected Flagellin is capable of inducing antibody responses through by the availability of the essential amino acid tryptophan TLR5(Lopez-Yglesiasetal.,2014),andanincreasedabundance (Marsland, 2016; Rothhammer et al., 2016), and by the of flagellin-producing species belonging to Clostridium cluster metabolites deriving from bacterial tryptophan metabolism XIVa has been reported in IBS subjects (Salonen et al., (indole, indolic acid derivatives, skatole, and tryptamine). In 2010; Jeffery et al., 2012a). In particular, the mucin degrader IBS, increased tryptophan metabolism is associated with low- Ruminococcus torques is known to produce flagellin proteins grade inflammation and microbiota alterations (Clarke et al., and is also frequently associated with IBS 2009). Tryptophan is also crucially involved in several other . Because of these functional features, microbiota-mediated interactions in the GI tract, such as this species has been proposed as a potential player in the secretory and sensory reflexes, peristalsis and the serotonin modulation of the low-level inflammatory responses at the pathway(Keszthelyietal.,2009).Alinkbetweenthemicrobiota mucosalsurface. andthetryptophanmetabolismhasbeendemonstratedingerm- Different species of commensals have been reported to freemice,whichexhibitabnormallevelsofserotonininthecolon and disease. Bacteroides fragilis was demonstrated to have a In the body, the majority of serotonin, a crucial protectiverolebyinducingtheproliferationofIL-10producing- neurotransmitter and regulatory factor, is derived from the regulatory T cells, through the expression of the surface factor hydroxylationofL-tryptophanbythetryptophanhydroxylase1 polysaccharideA(RoundandMazmanian,2010). enzyme,expressedinintestinalenterochromaffincells.Mucosal Similarly,IL-10releaseisalsopromotedbyseveralClostridia biopsies from individuals with IBS showed reduced mRNA strains.Seventeenbacterialstrainsisolatedfromahealthyhuman expressionlevelsoftryptophanhydroxylase1(Kerckhoffsetal., FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology|www.frontiersin.org 9 September2020|Volume10|Article468 Carcoetal. MechanismsUnderlyingFunctionalGastrointestinalDisorders 2012). Therefore, dysregulation of the tryptophan pathway, increased microbial nitric oxygen production and decreased which may affect mood and cognition, colonic motility and mucosal sulfide detoxification, have been shown to damage the visceralhypersensitivity(O’Mahonyetal.,2015),mayberelated colonic
