REVIEW
KEYWORDS: ibs, microbiota, colonic, microbial, increased, immune, subjects, fecal, etal, associated, ibs-d, studies, functional, bowel, cells


the tryptophan pathway, increased microbial nitric oxygen production and decreased which may affect mood and cognition, colonic motility and mucosal sulfide detoxification, have been shown to damage the visceralhypersensitivity(O’Mahonyetal.,2015),mayberelated colonic epithelium and contribute to mucosal inflammation toIBSpathogenesis.Similarly,areducedserotoninreuptakeand (RoedigerandBabidge,2000). animpairedserotoninreleasehavebeenreportedrespectivelyin The GI microbiota can also directly control epithelial subjects with IBS-D and IBS-C . In this permeability by upregulating tight junction (TJ) proteins in regard, tegaserod, which is used to treat IBS-C, and alosetron, bothnormalandpathologicalconditions(Ewaschuketal.,2008; whichisusedtotreatIBS-D,respectivelystimulateandblockthe Andersonetal.,2010;Karczewskietal.,2010).Giventhiscrucial serotonin5HT4and5HT3receptor(Biniendaetal.,2018).This roleplayedbythecommensalsinthemaintenanceofepithelial reflects thecomplexity of the interactionsunderlying abnormal barrierintegrity,alterationsinthiscommunitymayberelevant colonicmotility. fortheincreasedpermeabilityoftenseeninIBS-D(Dunlopetal., Overall, the unavoidable interaction between the GI 2006;Houetal.,2017).Inparticular,biopsiesfromsubjectswith microbiotaandtheimmunesystemcouldpotentiallybeinvolved IBS-Dshowedareducedexpressionofoccludin(Coeffieretal., in the low-grade chronic inflammation often observed in 2010) and claudin-1 in the colonic mucosa (Bertiaux-Vandaele individuals with IBS regardless of subtypes. Inflammation etal.,2011)andadisruptedapicaljunctionalcomplexintegrity may potentially underlie most of the pathways involved in inthejejunalmucosa(MartínezC.etal.,2013). IBS symptom generation, including visceral hypersensitivity Alterations of TJ proteins in IBS have been also associated , abdominal pain withvisceralhypersensitivity,abdominalpain(Picheetal.,2009; and increased permeability . However, the Bertiaux-Vandaeleetal.,2011)andmastcellactivation(Martínez mechanismsbehindtheconnectionbetweenstress,inflammation C. et al., 2013). The increased GI permeability may result in andcolonicmucosalbarrierfunctionarelargelyunknown. the translocation of bacteria and their products through the barrier, influencing local and systemic immune responses and contributingtothelow-gradeinflammationinIBS(Kellyetal., MICROBIAL REGULATION OF EPITHELIAL 2015).Pro-inflammatorycytokinessuchasIFN-γ,TNF-α,IL-4, BARRIER FUNCTION IN THE GI TRACT IL-12 and IL-1β also contribute to TJ disruption and increased paracellularpermeability(Suenaertetal.,2002).Hypersensitivity InahealthyGItract,thedirectcontactbetweenthemicrobiota and symptom severity have been observed to be increased in and the rest of the host is prevented by the mucosal barrier, IBS-D patients with increased GI permeability, in comparison that, together with the mucus layer, represents a “shield” tohealthycontrolsandIBS-Dsubjectswithnormalpermeability against pathogens. The mucosal barrier also includes the (Zhouetal.,2009). mucosal immune system and the enteric nervous system A subtype-specific increase of mucosal mast cell mediators, (Kellyetal.,2015). suchasserineproteasesandtryptases,insubjectswithIBS-Dmay Mucins are highly glycosylated macromolecule components be responsible for the observed increased colonic permeability of the mucus barrier. They represent an alternative substrate (Lee et al., 2010; Wilcz et al., 2011). In addition, an in vitro to dietary polysaccharides for mucin-degrading bacteria, such studydemonstratedthatplasmalipopolysaccharidesandtryptase as R. torques and Akkermansia muciniphila (Tailford et al., levels were increased in IBS-D, but not in IBS-C (Ludidi et al., 2015). An abnormal increase in these species (such as through 2015). The same study also showed an increased permeability dietary restriction) may reduce mucus layer thickness, possibly when Caco-2 cells were exposed to plasma from IBS-D and contributing to impaired mucus barrier function, increased IBS-Csubjects,withahighereffectforIBS-Dincomparisonto pathogensusceptibilityandinflammatoryconditions(Pelaseyed IBS-C.Inaddition,IBS-Dpatientsshowdistinctivetranscription et al., 2014). An altered relative abundance of mucin-degraders
