REVIEW
KEYWORDS: ibs, microbiota, colonic, microbial, increased, immune, subjects, fecal, etal, associated, ibs-d, studies, functional, bowel, cells


possibly when Caco-2 cells were exposed to plasma from IBS-D and contributing to impaired mucus barrier function, increased IBS-Csubjects,withahighereffectforIBS-Dincomparisonto pathogensusceptibilityandinflammatoryconditions(Pelaseyed IBS-C.Inaddition,IBS-Dpatientsshowdistinctivetranscription et al., 2014). An altered relative abundance of mucin-degraders patternsregardingepithelialpermeability,mastcellactivityand mayotherwisereflectchangesinmucussheddinginsubjectswith TJexpression;forexampleoccludensmRNAexpressionhasbeen IBS-D,resultinginmucousdischargeintheirstool. observedtobeinverselycorrelatedwiththemRNAexpressionof The metabolism of sulfated mucins by mucin-degrading tryptase(Martinezetal.,2012). bacteriarepresentsasourceofsulfate,whichcanbesubsequently In vitro studies with Caco-2 monolayers reduced to hydrogen sulfide . High or murine tissues incubated with colonic concentrations of hydrogen sulfide have been demonstrated or fecal supernatants from IBS subjects to induce oxidative stress, to impair cellular respiration and support the correlation between decreased epithelial barrier adenosine triphosphate production (Cooper and Brown, 2008) function, zonula occludens-1 mRNA expression, inflammation and to inhibit butyrate oxidation by colonocytes in vivo and pain severity. Intestinal permeability in IBS may be (Jorgensen and Mortensen, 2001) and in vitro (Roediger possibly ameliorated by the positive effect exerted by lactic- et al., 1993). Colonocytes are therefore deprived of their acid bacteria on TJ proteins. Indeed, a probiotic cocktail main sources of energy. Oxidative stress and energy starvation including Streptococcus thermophilus, Lactobacillus spp. and may result in colonocyte death, weakening of the epithelial Bifidobacterium longum has been demonstrated to improve barrier and direct contact of commensals with the mucosal mucosal barrier function in subjects with IBS-D (Zeng et al., immune system (Jorgensen and Mortensen, 2001). Therefore, 2008).Probioticsarelivemicroorganismsthatmaybebeneficial increased levels of hydrogen sulfide, in conjunction with forconditionsfeaturingdysbiosis,suchasIBS.Recentsystematic FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology|www.frontiersin.org 10 September2020|Volume10|Article468 Carcoetal. MechanismsUnderlyingFunctionalGastrointestinalDisorders reviews and meta-analyses reported contrasting results (Ford found elevated food-specific immunoglobulin G levels in IBS et al., 2018a,b), but suggest that probiotics as a class, have subjects in comparison to controls (Zar et al., 2005; Lee and very limited but beneficial effect over placebo on general IBS Lee, 2017; Karakula-Juchnowicz et al., 2018). In a randomized symptoms,suchasbloatingandflatulence(Fordetal.,2018b). controlled trial, IBS subjects excluded from their diet the foods In conclusion, increased GI permeability, which seems responsible for their increased immunoglobulin G levels. After to be a prevalent feature of IBS-D, may trigger low-grade 3 months, the dietary exclusion resulted in a reduction of GI and systemic inflammation and correlates with symptom symptom severity, suggesting that food elimination based on severity.ThemolecularmechanismsresponsibleforincreasedGI immunoglobulin levels may be promising for the reduction of permeabilityinFGIDsarestillpoorlyunderstood,butrepresent IBS symptoms . Notably, the 87% of the potentialtherapeuticanddiscriminatingtargetsforIBS-Dfrom IBSsubjectsfromthisstudyreportedsymptomaticreactionsto concreteevidencetoconfirmtheseinteractions,hypersensitivity observed lower percentages [5% Nanda et al., 1989 and 12% to certain food have been identified as one of the possible Hunter, 1985] of IBS patients indicating yeast as an offending
