REVIEW
KEYWORDS: ibs, microbiota, colonic, microbial, increased, immune, subjects, fecal, etal, associated, ibs-d, studies, functional, bowel, cells


gene expression markers to discriminate IBS fatty acids, and hydrogen sulfide. Clostridium spp. have long from healthy controls . Subsequently, other been considered as major producers of ammonia from protein studies combined plasma and fecal biomarkers associated with fermentation (Vince and Burridge, 1980), which can impair differentparametersofGIfunction,toreflectthemultifactorial colonicbarrierfunction(LinandVisek,1991)andstimulatethe natureofIBS(Mujagicetal.,2016).Anovelmulti-domainnon- releaseofpro-inflammatorycytokines(Pieperetal.,2012).This invasive biomarker panel was identified and validated, which may explain the fact that many IBS subjects report foods rich coulddiscriminateIBSfromhealthwithhighsensitivity(88.1%) in animal protein, including meat, fish and eggs, to induce GI andspecificity(86.5%),andcouldbecorrelatedwithGIsymptom symptoms(Hayesetal.,2014). severity in IBS and in the general population (Mujagic et al., Hydrogen sulfide, another end-product of protein 2016).Thisincludedplasmacytokinelevels,suchasIL-1β,IL-6, fermentation, is produced by the microbiota mostly through IL12p70,andTNF-α,asmarkersofsystemicimmuneactivation, the degradation of the sulfur-containing amino acid cysteine. fecal Chromogranin A (CgA), as an indicator of the colonic Fusobacterium spp., which is known to generate cysteine neuroendocrine cell activity, fecal human β-defensin 2, as an through the cysteine desulfydrase activity, has been associated indicator of host protection against microbes, calprotectin, as with impaired colonic function in IBS or inflammatory bowel an indicator of colorectal inflammation, reflecting neutrophil diseases . Although high concentrations of migration to the colonic mucosa, and caproate, a product hydrogensulfidecanbedetrimentalforthecolonicepithelium, of microbial fermentation of non-digested oligosaccharides in hydrogen sulfide at low concentrations was demonstrated to thecolon. maintain the integrity of the mucus layer and to ameliorate Recent studies have highlighted the role of immune mucosal inflammation . Given the fact dysregulationandmicrobialdysbiosisinIBSandsomemolecules that the colonic microbiota generates much more hydrogen of the immune system measured in blood or in GI luminal sulfidefromcysteinethanthecolonicepithelialcells,ithasbeen contents could be putative biomarkers. Fecal CgA plays a suggested that hydrogen sulfide exerts a protective effect when role in pain regulation and antimicrobial activity, and their produced from endogenous metabolism but can be deleterious fecal levels have been negatively correlated with colonic transit when generated at high concentrations by colonic microbes time in individuals with IBS (Öhman et al., 2012). The fecal (Blachieretal.,2019). granin profile of IBS has been associated with the microbiota alpha-diversity and composition, in particular with the genus Bacteroides . Although CgA represents a BIOMARKERS TOWARD AN IMMUNE linkbetweentheneuroendocrineandimmunesystems,fecaland SIGNATURE IN FUNCTIONAL serum granins can be increased in other conditions, including GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS lymphocytic colitis and celiac disease . Granins thus are not considered as Understanding the mechanisms underlying host-microbe useful biomarkers for IBS, because their lack of specificity and interactionsandsymptomspathophysiologywilllikelyimprove discriminatorypower. the current knowledge of pathwaysinvolved and the predictive Calprotectin, a
