REVIEW
KEYWORDS: ibs, microbiota, colonic, microbial, increased, immune, subjects, fecal, etal, associated, ibs-d, studies, functional, bowel, cells


not considered as Understanding the mechanisms underlying host-microbe useful biomarkers for IBS, because their lack of specificity and interactionsandsymptomspathophysiologywilllikelyimprove discriminatorypower. the current knowledge of pathwaysinvolved and the predictive Calprotectin, a protein released by neutrophils during GI valueofIBSbiomarkers.Biomarkerscanbemeasuredinblood, inflammation, can be easily measured in stool samples, as it fecal, urine or breath samples, to potentially discriminate IBS is resistant to degradation in the colon, and can therefore be within the IBS subtypes and to characterize improvements in AlthoughcalprotectinisprimarilyusedtodistinguishIBSfrom well-beingandqualityoflifeofIBSsubjects. IBD (Chang et al., 2014; Banerjee et al., 2015), concentrations in microbial composition, immune profile, GI motor and fecal calprotectin was elevated in one third of all patients sensoryfunction,painperception,serotoninmetabolism,andthe across IBS subtypes . In addition, a expression of genes involved in immune activation (Camilleri recent study demonstrated that differences in fecal calprotectin et al., 2017). Differences in fecal bile acids and fecal fat concentrations in children discriminated between IBS subtypes also successfully discriminated between IBS-D and IBS-C and from healthy controls. In particular, fecal calprotectin FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology|www.frontiersin.org 13 September2020|Volume10|Article468 Carcoetal. MechanismsUnderlyingFunctionalGastrointestinalDisorders concentration was highest in IBS-D, followed by those with oxide,histamineandproteases)arelikelytoplayaroleinseveral IBS-M and IBS-C (Choi and Jeong, 2019). In combination pathways involved in IBS symptoms generation (Figure6). with other plasma and fecal biomarkers, fecal calprotectin may Notably, the number and the activation rate of mucosal mast effectivelydiscriminateIBSfromhealthandwithinIBSsubtypes cellshasbeenreportedtobehigherinIBS-Dpatientscompared (NemakayalaandCash,2019). to healthy controls and correlated with severity and frequency Serine proteases, such as tryptases, which are released by of abdominal pain (Barbara et al., 2004; Park et al., 2006). colonic mast cells and bacteria, have been also reported to be Another study reported no difference in mast cell count, but elevated in IBS-D (Róka et al., 2007; Tooth et al., 2014). These the percentage of degranulated mast cells was increased in proteasesarethoughttoplayaroleinseveralpathwaysinvolved IBS-D patients . In addition to the number of in IBS symptom generation, such as the stimulation of colonic colonic mast cells, an augmented activity of colonic mast cells nerves through the protease activated receptor-2, leading to in proximity to sensory nerves is likely to play a role in IBS abdominal pain (Valdez-Morales et al., 2013; Cattaruzza et al., symptom development. In subjects with IBS-D the immune 2014).Proteasesalsocontributetomucosalinflammation(Róka activation of peripheral CD4+ T-cells was reported, but it did etal.,2007),affectmotilityofsmoothmuscles(Sekiguchietal., notcorrelatewithGIorpsychologicalsymptoms(Nasseretal., 2006)and increaseparacellularpermeability(Rókaetal.,2007) 2019), whereas an enhanced pro-inflammatory cytokine release inthecolon. inIBS-Dwasassociatedwithsymptomsandanxietyinaprevious TLRs are a family of receptors present on both epithelial study(Liebregtsetal.,2007). and immune cells in those tissues exposed to the external
