Bookshelf_NBK1543
KEYWORDS: pathogenic, porcn, variant, developmental, pathogenic variant, affected, porcn-related, porcn-related developmental, disorders, porcn pathogenic, developmental disorders, skin, males, testing, papillomas


NLM Citation: Sutton VR. PORCN-Related Developmental Disorders. 2008 May 15 [Updated 2023 Jun 15]. In: Adam MP, Bick S, Mirzaa GM, ® Washington, Seattle; 1993-2026. Bookshelf URL: PORCN-Related Developmental Disorders Synonyms: Focal Dermal Hypoplasia, Goltz Syndrome, Goltz-Gorlin Syndrome Created: May 15, 2008; Updated: June 15, 2023. Summary Clinical characteristics PORCN-related developmental disorders include a spectrum of highly variable multisystem disorders caused by developmental abnormalities in mesodermal and ectodermal structures primarily involving the skin, limbs, eyes, and face. The manifestations vary among affected individuals, and many have only a subset of the characteristic features. Skin manifestations present at birth include atrophic and hypoplastic areas of skin; cutis aplasia; fat nodules in the dermis manifesting as soft, yellow-pink cutaneous nodules; and pigmentary changes. Verrucous papillomas of the skin and mucous membranes may appear later. The nails can be ridged, dysplastic, or hypoplastic; hair can be sparse or absent. Limb malformations include oligo- and syndactyly and split hand/foot. Developmental abnormalities of the eye can include anophthalmia/microphthalmia, iris and chorioretinal coloboma, and lacrimal duct abnormalities. Craniofacial findings can include facial asymmetry, notched alae nasi, cleft lip and palate, pointed chin, and small, underfolded pinnae. Dental anomalies can include hypodontia, enamel defects, and/or abnormally shaped teeth. Occasional findings include abdominal wall defects, diaphragmatic hernia, and kidney anomalies. Psychomotor development is usually normal; some individuals have cognitive impairment and/or behavioral issues. Diagnosis/testing A PORCN-related developmental disorder can be diagnosed in a proband with characteristic clinical features and a heterozygous pathogenic variant in PORCN identified by molecular genetic testing. Management Treatment of manifestations: Care by a dermatologist for painful and pruritic erosive lesions that are prone to infection; laser therapy for atrophic areas and granulation tissue may be helpful; lotion for pruritic lesions; preoperative evaluation by an otolaryngologist for hypopharyngeal and/or tonsillar papillomas; management of large papillomas of the larynx, trachea, and/or esophagus per otolaryngologist or gastroenterologist; referral to a physical/occupational therapist and hand surgeon for management of hand and foot malformations; standard Texas; Email: . 2 GeneReviews ® management of structural abnormalities of the eyes, kidneys, diaphragmatic hernia, and abdominal wall defects; visual aids or other resources for reduced vision; dental care, good oral hygiene, dietary counseling; consider fissure sealants to reduce dental caries; orthodontic care as needed for malocclusion, veneers as needed; hearing aids and community hearing services as needed; developmental services and educational support; standard management for behavioral issues. Surveillance: Annual evaluation with a
