Bookshelf_NBK1543
KEYWORDS: pathogenic, porcn, variant, developmental, pathogenic variant, affected, porcn-related, porcn-related developmental, disorders, porcn pathogenic, developmental disorders, skin, males, testing, papillomas


as needed for malocclusion, veneers as needed; hearing aids and community hearing services as needed; developmental services and educational support; standard management for behavioral issues. Surveillance: Annual evaluation with a dermatologist; monitor for gastroesophageal reflux disease, swallowing difficulties, and symptoms of obstructive sleep apnea at each visit; annual physical examination for scoliosis, particularly in individuals with costovertebral segmentation abnormalities; annual eye examinations; dental examination every six months; annual hearing evaluation or as needed; assess growth and body composition to determine need for nutritional intervention at each visit; annual screening for cognitive, emotional, behavioral, and adaptive issues. Agents/circumstances to avoid: Prevent exposure to extreme heat in those with hypohidrosis. Genetic counseling PORCN-related developmental disorders are inherited in an X-linked manner. Females (90% of affected individuals) are heterozygous or mosaic for a PORCN pathogenic variant; most live-born affected males (10% of affected individuals) are mosaic for a de novo PORCN pathogenic variant. It is presumed that most non-mosaic hemizygous males are not viable. Approximately 95% of females with PORCN-related developmental disorders have a de novo pathogenic variant; ~5% inherited the pathogenic variant from a parent. The risk that the PORCN pathogenic variant will be transmitted by an affected heterozygous female is 50%; however, because most male conceptuses with a PORCN pathogenic variant are presumed to be spontaneously aborted, at delivery the expected sex ratio of offspring is: 33% unaffected females; 33% affected females; 33% unaffected males. If the affected female is mosaic for a PORCN pathogenic variant, the risk to her female offspring of inheriting the pathogenic variant depends on the level of mosaicism in her germline and can be as high as 50%. Once the PORCN pathogenic variant has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. Diagnosis Suggestive Findings A PORCN-related developmental disorder should be considered in an individual with any combination of the following characteristic ectodermal and limb findings and other common clinical findings. Characteristic ectodermal manifestations (see Figure 1): • Congenital patchy skin aplasia. Atrophic and hypoplastic areas of skin that often follow the lines of Blaschko and appear as depressed regions of pink or white color, often with a fibrous texture Note: The lines of Blaschko correspond to cell migration pathways evident during embryonic and fetal skin development. Like dermatomes, the lines of Blaschko are linear on the limbs and circumferential on • Congenital skin hypo- or hyperpigmentation often following a
