Bookshelf_NBK1543
KEYWORDS: pathogenic, porcn, variant, developmental, pathogenic variant, affected, porcn-related, porcn-related developmental, disorders, porcn pathogenic, developmental disorders, skin, males, testing, papillomas


evident during embryonic and fetal skin development. Like dermatomes, the lines of Blaschko are linear on the limbs and circumferential on • Congenital skin hypo- or hyperpigmentation often following a Blaschko linear distribution • Telangiectasias. May be seen on the face, trunk, and extremities • Congenital nodular fat herniation. Soft, yellow-pink nodules on the skin (which represent fat nodules in the dermis) typically seen on the trunk and extremities PORCN-Related Developmental Disorders 3 • Congenital ridged, dysplastic, or hypoplastic nails Characteristic limb malformations [Smith & Hunt 2016] (see Figure 2 and Figure 3): • Syndactyly occurring variably on one or more extremities • Ectrodactyly. Split-hand/foot malformation that may occur on ≥1 extremity • Oligodactyly. Absent digit(s) may be seen in one or both hands and/or feet. Central digits are more frequently involved. • Long bone reduction defect. Hypoplasia or shortening of the long bones in one or more extremities • Transverse limb defect. Congenital absence of the distal portion of an upper and/or lower limb (e.g., hand, wrist, forearm, elbow) with no distal remaining portions, including acheiria or hemimelia Other common clinical findings • Hair. Hair shaft abnormalities on scanning electron microscopy, patchy alopecia of the scalp, wiry hair • Verrucous papillomas of the skin and mucous membranes (including in the mouth, nose, larynx, esophagus, vaginal mucosa, and/or rectal mucosa) • Dental abnormalities. Hypodontia, enamel defects / longitudinal grooving, peg teeth • Other skin manifestations. Pebbled skin texture, photosensitivity • Ocular manifestations. Iris colobomas, chorioretinal colobomas, microphthalmia, anophthalmia, cataracts, nystagmus, strabismus Establishing the Diagnosis Female proband. The diagnosis of a PORCN-related developmental disorder is established in a female proband with suggestive findings and a heterozygous pathogenic (or likely pathogenic) variant in PORCN identified by molecular genetic testing (see Table 1). Male proband. The diagnosis of a PORCN-related developmental disorder is established in a male proband with suggestive findings and a hemizygous pathogenic (or likely pathogenic) variant in PORCN identified by molecular genetic testing (see Table 1). Note: Most affected males to date have somatic mosaicism for a hemizygous PORCN pathogenic variant [Lombardi et al 2011], although there are some recent reports of non- mosaic males with hypomorphic PORCN variants inherited from unaffected mothers [Happle 2021]. Note: (1) Per ACMG/AMG variant interpretation guidelines, the terms "pathogenic variant" and "likely be used for clinical decision making [Richards et al 2015]. Reference to "pathogenic variants" in this GeneReview is understood to include likely
