Bookshelf_NBK1543
KEYWORDS: pathogenic, porcn, variant, developmental, pathogenic variant, affected, porcn-related, porcn-related developmental, disorders, porcn pathogenic, developmental disorders, skin, males, testing, papillomas


interpretation guidelines, the terms "pathogenic variant" and "likely be used for clinical decision making [Richards et al 2015]. Reference to "pathogenic variants" in this GeneReview is understood to include likely pathogenic variants. (2) Identification of a heterozygous or hemizygous PORCN variant of uncertain significance does not establish or rule out the diagnosis. Tiered molecular testing approaches can include a combination of single-gene testing (sequence analysis, gene- targeted deletion/duplication analysis), chromosomal microarray analysis (CMA), use of a multigene panel, and more comprehensive genomic testing. • First-tier testing. On a blood sample, perform sequence analysis of PORCN. If no pathogenic variant is identified, perform either CMA (if not already performed) to detect large deletions/duplications that include PORCN or gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis of PORCN if CMA was normal; note, however, that intragenic deletions detected by this method have been rarely reported (see Table 1). Note: (1) Several females and most males have somatic mosaicism for either a PORCN pathogenic variant or PORCN deletion; therefore, possible mosaicism must be considered when performing sequence analysis (see Second-tier testing). (2) A male with a 47,XXY karyotype and a heterozygous PORCN pathogenic variant on one of the two X chromosomes has been reported [Alkindi et al 2013]. 4 GeneReviews ® Figure 1. Ectodermal manifestations include yellowish-pink areas representing fat herniation (white arrowheads), patchy aplasia (black arrowheads), hyper- & hypopigmentation following lines of Blaschko (black arrows indicating the border), and hypopigmented areas of poikiloderma (circled regions). The nail phenotype ranges from longitudinal ridging (1) to hypoplastic (2). PORCN-Related Developmental Disorders 5 Figure 2. Hands showing syndactyly (black arrow) and split-hand malformation (black arrowhead) with only four digits (oligodactyly) on the left hand. The appearance of the left hand has been somewhat modified by partial surgical repair. • Second-tier testing. If first-tier testing does not detect a PORCN pathogenic variant or deletion, perform sequence analysis and deletion/duplication analysis on saliva or affected tissues (e.g., skin, papillomas, surgical specimens), which increase the sensitivity for detecting somatic mosaicism [Maas et al 2009]. • Testing to consider. If first-tier and second-tier testing do not detect a PORCN pathogenic variant or deletion, the following may also be considered: ⚬ A multigene panel that includes PORCN and other genes of interest (see Differential Diagnosis). Note: (1) The genes included in the panel and the diagnostic sensitivity of the testing used for each gene vary by laboratory and are likely to change over time. (2)
