Bookshelf_NBK1543
KEYWORDS: pathogenic, porcn, variant, developmental, pathogenic variant, affected, porcn-related, porcn-related developmental, disorders, porcn pathogenic, developmental disorders, skin, males, testing, papillomas


Note: (1) The genes included in the panel and the diagnostic sensitivity of the testing used for each gene vary by laboratory and are likely to change over time. (2) Some multigene panels may include genes not associated with the condition discussed in this GeneReview; thus, clinicians need to determine which multigene panel is most likely to identify the genetic cause of the condition while limiting identification of pathogenic variants and variants of uncertain significance in genes that do not explain the underlying phenotype. (3) In some laboratories, panel options may include a custom laboratory-designed panel and/or custom phenotype-focused exome analysis that includes genes specified by the clinician. (4) Methods used in a panel may include sequence analysis, deletion/ duplication analysis, and/or other non-sequencing-based tests. ordering genetic tests can be found here. 6 GeneReviews ® Figure 3. Highly variable limb malformations Feet showing syndactyly (black arrows), split-foot malformation or ectrodactyly (black arrowheads), oligodactyly (3, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12), and distal transverse limb defect (13) Adapted from Bostwick et al PORCN-Related Developmental Disorders 7 ⚬ Comprehensive genomic testing does not require the clinician to determine which gene is likely involved. Exome sequencing is most commonly used; genome sequencing is also possible. clinicians ordering genomic testing can be found here. Table 1. Molecular Genetic Testing Used in PORCN-Related Developmental Disorders Proportion of Pathogenic Variants 2 Gene 1 Method Identified by Method Sequence analysis 3 ~91% 4, 5 CMA 6 ~9% 4, 7 PORCN Gene-targeted deletion/duplication Rare 4, 7, 8 analysis 8 1. See Table A. Genes and Databases for chromosome locus and protein. 2. See Molecular Genetics for information on variants detected in this gene. 3. Sequence analysis detects variants that are benign, likely benign, of uncertain significance, likely pathogenic, or pathogenic. Variants may include missense, nonsense, and splice site variants and small intragenic deletions/insertions; typically, exon or whole-gene 4. Estimates based on 170 individual positive test results curated in the PORCN @ LOVD database [Lombardi et al 2011] 5. Most 46,XY males and some females are mosaic for pathogenic variants in PORCN. When using sequence analysis, mosaicism for a pathogenic variant may result in a false negative test result [Grzeschik et al 2007, Wang et al 2007, Bornholdt et al 2009, Maas et al 2009, Fernandes et al 2010, Vreeburg et al 2011, Yoshihashi et al 2011]. 6. Chromosomal microarray analysis (CMA) uses oligonucleotide or SNP arrays to detect
