Bookshelf_NBK1543
KEYWORDS: pathogenic, porcn, variant, developmental, pathogenic variant, affected, porcn-related, porcn-related developmental, disorders, porcn pathogenic, developmental disorders, skin, males, testing, papillomas


5%-10% Cataracts 10% Nystagmus 30% Strabismus 20% Bostwick et al , Bree et al , Gisseman & Herce , Smith & Hunt , Wright et al EM = electron microscopy Affected Females Ectodermal manifestations. The most characteristic features of PORCN-related developmental disorders are the skin manifestations (see Figure 1). The cutaneous findings typically follow the lines of Blaschko and include patchy areas of skin aplasia/hypoplasia, skin hypo- and/or hyperpigmentation, and nodular fat herniation. Th e lines of Blaschko represent cell migration pathways that are linear on the limbs and circumferential on the trunk. The lines are classically described as V shaped overlying the upper spine, S shaped on the abdomen, and an PORCN-Related Developmental Disorders 9 inverted-U shape from the breast area to the upper arms. These findings are typically evident at birth, but the distribution and severity may change over time. Unilateral involvement has also been reported [Bree et al 2016]. Other integumentary system abnormalities include wiry hair, sparse hair, patchy alopecia of the scalp, and abnormal nails. The nails can be absent (anonychia), small (micronychia), hypoplastic, or dysplastic, often with longitudinal ridging, splitting, or V-shaped nicking [Bree et al 2016]. Papillomatosis. Papillomas and telangiectasias are typically not present at birth but develop with age. • Verrucous papillomas are found in the oral mucosa of the mouth, nose, pharynx, larynx, trachea, and esophagus. Large papillomas of the larynx can obstruct breathing during anesthesia or can cause obstructive sleep apnea. Papillomas in the esophagus or larynx can also cause or contribute to severe gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). • The vaginal or rectal mucosa are also common sites for papillomas, where they can be confused with genital warts. Dental abnormalities and eye findings, both of which result from abnormalities in ectodermal appendage development, are described separately below. Limb and skeletal manifestations. Most individuals with a PORCN-related developmental disorder have limb malformations noted at birth, including syndactyly, oligodactyly, and split-hand/foot malformation or Additionally, reduction defects of the long bones ranging from leg length discrepancies to transverse defects of the distal radius/ulna or tibia/fibula are commonly seen. Less common limb malformations that may be present at birth and impair function include camptodactyly (contraction deformities of the digits) and brachydactyly (shortening of the digits). Costovertebral segmentation abnormalities including fused ribs, bifid ribs, hemivertebrae, and butterfl y vertebrae are present at birth but are often not evident on physical examination and may only be seen
