Bookshelf_NBK1543
KEYWORDS: pathogenic, porcn, variant, developmental, pathogenic variant, affected, porcn-related, porcn-related developmental, disorders, porcn pathogenic, developmental disorders, skin, males, testing, papillomas


Costovertebral segmentation abnormalities including fused ribs, bifid ribs, hemivertebrae, and butterfl y vertebrae are present at birth but are often not evident on physical examination and may only be seen in radiographs of the chest and/or spine. Although these malformations do not typically cause problems in infancy or early childhood, they may cause scoliosis as the child grows. Kyphosis or kyphoscoliosis is seen in approximately 10% of affected individuals [Smith & Hunt 2016]. More often, these segmentation abnormalities do not cause health issues. Diastasis pubis, an abnormal separation of the symphysis pubis, may be an incidental finding or may present in adolescence or adulthood with pain. The gap between the pubic bones in the average non-pregnant adult is 4-5 mm. An abnormal gap is considered to be 1 cm or more, sometimes with the two bones being slightly out of alignment. In some individuals, diastasis pubis may cause pain with walking or in the symphysis pubis, legs, groin, and lower abdomen. Fibrous dysplasia of bone (i.e., replacement of medullary bone with trabeculae of woven bone containing fluid- filled cysts embedded in a fibrous matrix) may affect any bone at any time. On radiographs the bone appears radiolucent, with what is classically described as a "ground-glass" appearance. Fibrous dysplasia may be asymptomatic or become evident when it is the site of a pathologic fracture. Giant cell-like tumors of long bones, reported on occasion, may develop in childhood, adolescence, or adulthood. They typically become evident when a pathologic bone fracture occurs at the site of the lesion [Selzer et al 1974, Joannides et al 1983, Tanaka et al 1990]. In the small number of reports to date, none of these tumors has been malignant. Osteopathia striata, a striated appearance of the bones evident on plain radiographs, is common and may be seen in childhood, adolescence, and adulthood. It is currently unclear if individuals with this finding are at 10 GeneReviews ® increased risk for general osteoporosis. Of note, a spontaneous patella fracture related to osteoporosis in an individual with a PORCN-related developmental disorder has been reported [Altschuler et al 2012]. Eye findings. Developmental abnormalities of the eyes are common and are evident at birth; PORCN plays an important role in the development of the optic cup [Fuhrmann et al 2022]. Depending on the severity of the manifestations, vision can range from 20/20 to no light perception. Reported eye abnormalities include anophthalmia/microphthalmia; microcornea;
