Bookshelf_NBK1543
KEYWORDS: pathogenic, porcn, variant, developmental, pathogenic variant, affected, porcn-related, porcn-related developmental, disorders, porcn pathogenic, developmental disorders, skin, males, testing, papillomas


collagen bundles and elastin fibers [Kanitakis et al 2003] • Rests of mature adipose tissue scattered throughout the reticular and papillary dermis [Howell & Freeman 1989, del Carmen Boente et al 2007]. Whether these represent herniation of fat into a thinned dermis or ectopic aggregation of fat within a dysplastic dermis is unclear [Howell & Freeman 1989]. • Verrucous papillomas that resemble squamous papillomas with hyperplastic, stratified squamous epithelium overlying a fibrovascular core. Verrucous papillomas lack the typical morphologic evidence of human papilloma virus infection and stain negative for Epstein-Barr virus RNA [Rosen & Bocklage 2005]. • From biopsies from Blaschkoid streaks, findings of increased papillary dermal blood vessels, decreased thickness of the dermis, and adipocytes high in the dermis strongly point to the diagnosis of a PORCN- related developmental disorder [Ko et al 2016]. Genotype-Phenotype Correlations Information on genotype-phenotype correlations in PORCN-related developmental disorders is limited. • Available data suggest that the level of X-chromosome inactivation correlates with severity of the phenotype in some (familial) cases [Grzeschik et al 2007, Wang et al 2007]. Note: All females with deletions in PORCN have extremely skewed X-chromosome inactivation, whereas females with a single-nucleotide variant can have random or skewed X-chromosome inactivation [Grzeschik et al 2007, Wang et al 2007, Lombardi et al 2011]. • Most affected males to date have somatic mosaicism for a PORCN pathogenic variant, with males being generally more mildly affected than females; however, some severely affected males have been reported [Maas et al 2009, Bornholdt et al 2009, Lombardi et al 2011]. 12 GeneReviews ® Figure 4. Note facial features of pointed chin and small right ear. • Non-mosaic PORCN variants have been identified in ten males from four families with isolated anophthalmia/microphthalmia or multiple congenital anomalies. Heterozygous female family members were asymptomatic or presented with mild features, suggesting a hypomorphic PORCN variant [Brady et al 2015, Madan et al 2017, Happle 2021, Wawrocka et al 2021]. Penetrance PORCN-related developmental disorders are typically highly penetrant in females, but the phenotypic severity can occasionally be mitigated by skewed X-chromosome inactivation or presence of a hypomorphic variant. Most males are mosaic for a hemizygous somatic PORCN pathogenic variant and can be so mildly affected as to not come to medical attention until adulthood. Nomenclature The title of this GeneReview – "PORCN-related developmental disorders" – is preferred by the author over the designation "focal dermal hypoplasia" because not all individuals
