Bookshelf_NBK1543
KEYWORDS: pathogenic, porcn, variant, developmental, pathogenic variant, affected, porcn-related, porcn-related developmental, disorders, porcn pathogenic, developmental disorders, skin, males, testing, papillomas


be aware that verrucous papillomas in genital areas in women with a PORCN- related developmental disorder are unlikely to be viral in origin, and thus there is no risk for transmission to the newborn during vaginal delivery. Therapies Under Investigation Search ClinicalTrials.gov in the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for access to information on clinical studies for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Note: There may not be clinical trials for this disorder. Genetic Counseling Genetic counseling is the process of providing individuals and families with information on the nature, mode(s) of inheritance, and implications of genetic disorders to help them make informed medical and personal decisions. Th e following section deals with genetic risk assessment and the use of family history and genetic testing to clarify genetic status for family members; it is not meant to address all personal, cultural, or ethical issues that may arise or to substitute for consultation with a genetics professional. —ED. Mode of Inheritance PORCN-related developmental disorders are inherited in an X-linked manner. Females account for 90% of individuals with PORCN-related developmental disorders; they may have heterozygous or mosaic pathogenic variants in PORCN. Males account for 10% of individuals with PORCN- related developmental disorders; nearly all live-born affected males who have had molecular genetic testing are mosaic for a PORCN pathogenic variant [Lombardi et al 2011]. It is presumed that most non-mosaic, hemizygous males are not viable. Risk to Family Members Parents of a female proband • Approximately 95% of females with a PORCN-related developmental disorder represent simplex cases (i.e., the only family member known to be affected) and have a PORCN-related developmental disorder as the result of a either a de novo germline pathogenic variant, a somatic mosaic pathogenic variant, or a pathogenic variant inherited from an unaffected parent with low-level mosaicism. • Approximately 5% of females with a PORCN-related developmental disorder inherited a PORCN pathogenic variant from an affected parent, usually the mother. ⚬ Female probands with a maternally inherited PORCN pathogenic variant may be more severely affected than their mothers [Shimaoka et al 2009, Yesodharan et al 2018]. When the mother of the proband is the first affected female in the family and has milder manifestations than affected females PORCN-Related Developmental Disorders 19 in subsequent generations [Wechsler et al 1988, Kilmer et al 1993], it is most likely that the mother has either mosaicism for the PORCN
