Bookshelf_NBK1543
KEYWORDS: pathogenic, porcn, variant, developmental, pathogenic variant, affected, porcn-related, porcn-related developmental, disorders, porcn pathogenic, developmental disorders, skin, males, testing, papillomas


affected females PORCN-Related Developmental Disorders 19 in subsequent generations [Wechsler et al 1988, Kilmer et al 1993], it is most likely that the mother has either mosaicism for the PORCN pathogenic variant or skewing of X-chromosome inactivation. ⚬ Less frequently, an affected female inherited the pathogenic variant from a father mosaic for a PORCN pathogenic variant [Wang et al 2007]; fathers with a PORCN-related developmental disorder are typically more mildly affected than their daughters [Burgdorf et al 1981]. • Detailed evaluation of the parents and review of the extended family history may help distinguish probands with a de novo pathogenic variant from those with an inherited pathogenic variant. If a germline PORCN pathogenic variant has been identified in the proband, * molecular genetic testing of the parent who has manifestations of a PORCN-related developmental disorder is appropriate. If neither parent has parents should be considered because: (1) the father or mother may have low-level mosaicism or (2) the mother may be a mildly affected (or apparently asymptomatic) heterozygote secondary to extremely favorable skewing of X-chromosome inactivation and/or the class of pathogenic variant segregating in the family [Brady et al 2015, Happle 2021]. * If a proband with a PORCN-related developmental disorder has the disorder as the result of a somatic mosaic PORCN pathogenic variant (i.e., a variant resulting from mutation that occurs in the proband • If the proband has a germline PORCN pathogenic variant that is not identified in either parent and parental identity testing has confirmed biological maternity and paternity, the following possibilities should be considered: ⚬ The proband has a de novo germline pathogenic variant. ⚬ The proband inherited a pathogenic variant from a mosaic parent (a parent with somatic and germline mosaicism may be apparently asymptomatic or mildly/minimally affected). Note: Testing parents using peripheral blood leukocyte-derived DNA may not detect all instances of somatic mosaicism. Molecular genetic tests sensitive enough to detect low-level somatic mosaicism, such as high-coverage next-generation sequencing or allele-specific PCR, should therefore be considered. Testing of parental leukocyte DNA will not detect a pathogenic variant that is present in the germ cells only. • An apparently negative family history cannot be confirmed until appropriate evaluations have been performed. Parents of a male proband • Live-born affected males are rare, and most affected males have somatic mosaicism for a de novo, presumably postzygotic pathogenic variant. The mother of a male proband with a somatic
