Bookshelf_NBK1543
KEYWORDS: pathogenic, porcn, variant, developmental, pathogenic variant, affected, porcn-related, porcn-related developmental, disorders, porcn pathogenic, developmental disorders, skin, males, testing, papillomas


• Live-born affected males are rare, and most affected males have somatic mosaicism for a de novo, presumably postzygotic pathogenic variant. The mother of a male proband with a somatic mosaic postzygotic PORCN pathogenic variant does not have the pathogenic variant. • If a germline PORCN pathogenic variant has been identified in an affected male, the mother should be examined for subtle features of a PORCN-related developmental disorder, and maternal molecular genetic testing for the PORCN pathogenic variant identified in the proband is indicated. Hemizygous affected males with a range of clinical findings have been reported as offspring of seemingly asymptomatic mothers with a presumed hypomorphic pathogenic variant and, in some, favorable skewing of X-chromosome inactivation [Brady et al 2015, Happle 2021] (see Genotype-Phenotype Correlations). • The father of an affected male will not have the disorder nor will he be hemizygous for the PORCN pathogenic variant; therefore, he does not require further evaluation/testing. Sibs of a female proband. The risk to sibs of a female proband depends on the genetic status of the mother and father: 20 GeneReviews ® • If the mother of the proband: ⚬ Is affected and/or known to be heterozygous for a PORCN pathogenic variant, the risk at conception of a sib inheriting the variant is 50%. However, the risk at delivery that a sib will be affected is lower than 50% because nearly all male conceptuses with the variant are presumed to be spontaneously aborted. The expected ratio in live-born sibs is 33% unaffected females, 33% affected females, and 33% unaffected males. ⚬ Is mosaic for a PORCN pathogenic variant, the risk at conception of a sib inheriting the pathogenic variant is as high as 50% depending on the level of mosaicism in the mother's germline [Heinz et al 2019]. ⚬ Is clinically unaffected and a PORCN pathogenic variant identified in the proband cannot be detected in maternal leukocyte DNA, the risk to sibs is greater than that of the general population because of the possibility of low-level parental mosaicism. ⚬ Is clinically unaffected but her genetic status is unknown, the risk to sibs is greater than that of the general population because of the possibility of low-level parental mosaicism and the possibility that the mother is heterozygous with favorable skewing of X-chromosome inactivation or heterozygous for a hypomorphic PORCN pathogenic variant [Brady et al 2015, Happle 2021] (see Genotype- Phenotype Correlations). • If
