Bookshelf_NBK1543
KEYWORDS: pathogenic, porcn, variant, developmental, pathogenic variant, affected, porcn-related, porcn-related developmental, disorders, porcn pathogenic, developmental disorders, skin, males, testing, papillomas


the mother is heterozygous with favorable skewing of X-chromosome inactivation or heterozygous for a hypomorphic PORCN pathogenic variant [Brady et al 2015, Happle 2021] (see Genotype- Phenotype Correlations). • If the father has the PORCN pathogenic variant, the risk to female sibs of inheriting the variant at conception is as high as 100% depending on the level of mosaicism in the father's germline. Male sibs are not at risk of inheriting the pathogenic variant from their father. Sibs of a male proband. The risk to sibs depends on the genetic status of the mother: • If a male proband is mosaic for a postzygotic pathogenic variant (most live-born males are mosaic based pathogenic variant and the risk to the sib of an affected male is similar to the population risk for PORCN- related developmental disorders. • If the mother of the proband has a PORCN pathogenic variant, the chance of the mother transmitting it in each pregnancy is 50%. Although most male conceptuses with a PORCN pathogenic variant are presumed to be spontaneously aborted, transmission of PORCN pathogenic variants to affected, hemizygous males from seemingly asymptomatic mothers with a presumed hypomorphic variant and, in some, favorable skewing of X-chromosome inactivation has been reported [Brady et al 2015, Happle 2021]. Offspring of female proband. The risk to the offspring of females with a PORCN-related developmental disorder must take into consideration the presumed lethality to males during gestation. • At conception, the risk that the PORCN pathogenic variant will be transmitted is 50%; however, most male conceptuses with the PORCN variant are presumed to be spontaneously aborted. Thus, at delivery the expected ratio of offspring is 33% unaffected females, 33% affected females, and 33% unaffected males. • If the proband is mosaic for a PORCN pathogenic variant, the risk to her offspring is as high as 50%, depending on the level of mosaicism in her germline [Heinz et al 2019]. Offspring of male proband. Most males with a PORCN-related developmental disorder have somatic mosaicism for a PORCN pathogenic variant. • The risk to an affected male of having an affected daughter is as high as 100% depending on the level of mosaicism in his germline. The daughter of a male proband will typically be more severely affected than the male proband [Burgdorf et al 1981]. • Males do not transmit their X chromosome to their sons and thus their sons are not
