Bookshelf_NBK1543
KEYWORDS: pathogenic, porcn, variant, developmental, pathogenic variant, affected, porcn-related, porcn-related developmental, disorders, porcn pathogenic, developmental disorders, skin, males, testing, papillomas


typically be more severely affected than the male proband [Burgdorf et al 1981]. • Males do not transmit their X chromosome to their sons and thus their sons are not at risk of inheriting the PORCN pathogenic variant. PORCN-Related Developmental Disorders 21 Other family members. If the mother of the proband also has a PORCN pathogenic variant, her female family members may also be at risk of having the pathogenic variant (asymptomatic or symptomatic) and her father may be at risk of being mosaic for the pathogenic variant. Related Genetic Counseling Issues Family planning • The optimal time for determination of genetic risk and discussion of the availability of prenatal/ preimplantation genetic testing is before pregnancy. • It is appropriate to offer genetic counseling (including discussion of potential risks to offspring and reproductive options) to affected individuals and apparently asymptomatic female family members at risk of having a PORCN pathogenic variant. Prenatal Testing and Preimplantation Genetic Testing Molecular genetic testing. Once the PORCN pathogenic variant has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing for a PORCN-related developmental disorder are possible. Ultrasound examination. The combination of intrauterine growth restriction or low average weight, limb malformation, and thoraco-abdominal wall defect or diaphragmatic hernia was a consistent finding in 11 fetuses found to have PORCN pathogenic variants [Mary et al 2017]. Identification of this combination of features on routine prenatal ultrasound examination may raise the possibility of a PORCN-related developmental disorder in a fetus not known to be at increased risk. Differences in perspective may exist among medical professionals and within families regarding the use of prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing. While most health care professionals would consider use of prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing to be a personal decision, discussion of these issues may be helpful. Resources GeneReviews staff has selected the following disease-specific and/or umbrella support organizations and/or registries for the benefit of individuals with this disorder and their families. GeneReviews is not responsible for the • Ectodermal Dysplasia Society United Kingdom Phone: 01242 261332 Email: www.edsociety.co.uk • National Foundation for Ectodermal Dysplasias (NFED) Phone: 618-566-2020 Email: www.nfed.org • Ectodermal Dysplasias International Registry Email: Ectodermal Dysplasias International Registry 22 GeneReviews ® Molecular Genetics Information in the Molecular Genetics and OMIM tables may differ from that elsewhere in the GeneReview: tables may contain more recent information. —ED. Table A. PORCN-Related Developmental Disorders: Genes and Databases Gene Chromosome
