Bookshelf_NBK1543
KEYWORDS: pathogenic, porcn, variant, developmental, pathogenic variant, affected, porcn-related, porcn-related developmental, disorders, porcn pathogenic, developmental disorders, skin, males, testing, papillomas


Molecular Genetics and OMIM tables may differ from that elsewhere in the GeneReview: tables may contain more recent information. —ED. Table A. PORCN-Related Developmental Disorders: Genes and Databases Gene Chromosome Locus Protein Locus-Spec ific HGMD ClinVar Databases PORCN Xp11.23 Protein-serine O- PORCN @ LOVD PORCN PORCN palmitoleoyltransferase porcupine Data are compiled from the following standard references: gene from HGNC; chromosome locus from OMIM; protein from UniProt. Table B. OMIM Entries for PORCN-Related Developmental Disorders (View All in OMIM) 300651 PORCUPINE O-ACYLTRANSFERASE; PORCN 305600 FOCAL DERMAL HYPOPLASIA; FDH Molecular Pathogenesis PORCN encodes protein-serine O-palmitoleoyltransferase porcupine (PORCN), a protein expressed in a wide variety of tissues that palmitoylates various Wnt proteins. In model organisms, the palmitoylation of Wnt proteins by PORCN has been shown to be required for secretion and signaling of most Wnt proteins from Wnt- producing cells [van Amerongen & Nusse 2009, Chen et al 2012, Clevers & Nusse 2012] and may play a role in Wnt protein levels. Wnt signaling is required for induction, proliferation, morphogenesis, and maintenance of most organs. Wnt proteins are important secreted morphogens that interact with receptors and coreceptors on target cells. Activation of the Wnt pathway is important for normal development [Clevers & Nusse 2012] and may be required to activate additional non-canonical Wnt signaling [Proffitt & Virshup 2012]. Wnt-3a is retained in the endoplasmic reticulum of cultured cells when Porcn is inactivated [Takada et al 2006, Clevers & Nusse 2012]. Studies of skin fibroblasts from females with a PORCN-related developmental disorder have demonstrated that PORCN activation of Wnt proteins is required for cellular reprograming [Ross et al 2014]. Loss of function of orthologs in mouse cells and Drosophila results in failure of Wnt proteins to be secreted from the endoplasmic reticulum in Wnt-producing cells, with defective downstream Wnt signaling [Tanaka et al 2000, Takada et al 2006]. Inactivation of Porcn in mouse embryos has resulted in early embryonic lethality and revealed that it is required for gastrulation and normal development of mesoderm- and ectoderm-derived structures [Barrott et al 2011, Biechele et al 2011, Liu et al 2012]. Conditional inactivation of Porcn in developing defects reminiscent of those seen in persons with a PORCN-related developmental disorder [Barrott et al 2011, Liu et al 2012]. Mechanism of disease causation. Loss of function PORCN-specific laboratory technical considerations. To date most affected males have somatic mosaicism for a PORCN pathogenic variant [Lombardi et al 2011]. PORCN-Related Developmental
