GUIDELINE HEALTH SERVICES CPD
KEYWORDS: screening, barrett, esophageal, esophagus, evidence, barrett esophagus, adenocarcinoma, task, force, task force, patients, guideline, esophageal adenocarcinoma, unsedated, risk


4/116 differences between modalities, with those Severe: 7/116 randomized to unsedated TNE experiencing more anxiety during the procedure (p < 0.01). 1 RCT Unsedated TNE: Unsedated Narrative summary: Authors reported mean anxiety Very low† (Zaman et al., Mean ± SE transoral EGD: during the procedure. The mean anxiety during the 1999)45 3.3 ± 0.7 Mean ± SE procedure did not differ between the unsedated TNE 3.3 ± 0.5 group and the unsedated transoral EGD group (p = 0.99). Note: CI = confidence interval, EGD = esophagogastroduodenoscopy, GERD = gastroesophageal reflux disease, GRADE = Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation, RCT = randomized controlled trial, SD = standard deviation, SE = standard error, TNE = transnasal esophagoscopy, VCE = video capsule esophagoscopy. *Unsedated TNE combines 0/72 (hospital TNE) and 0/76 (mobile TNE). †A GRADE assessment of very low certainty was given because the risk of bias was rated as very serious. In addition, indirectness and imprecision were rated as serious. ‡A GRADE assessment of very low certainty was given because the risk of bias, indirectness and imprecision were rated as serious. E772 CMAJ | JULY 6, 2020 | VOLUME 192 | ISSUE 27 GUIDELINE task force recommends against screening. The recommendation Patient engagement is strong because in its evidence-to-decision framework, the The task force engaged patients in guideline development task force placed a high value on the system-wide resources through 2 phases conducted by the Knowledge Translation dence of benefit (Appendix 1B). As referenced in a previous 17 men and women (aged ≥ 18 yr) with chronic GERD. Phase 1 guideline,36 “when there is an absence of evidence to provide consisted of online surveys and telephone focus groups, and confidence that there is benefit from implementing a new pre- obtained patient ratings of various clinical outcomes (benefits vention service and there is high certainty that scarce health and harms) of screening. Phase 2 asked participants to recon- care resources would be expended, the task force may make a sider outcome ratings when presented with synthesized evi- strong recommendation against service implementation. This is dence from the systematic reviews. consistent with the GRADE approach,38 in which strong recom- mendations are sometimes made with low-certainty evidence External and content expert review and with the value that the task force places on using primary the protocols,31,32 systematic reviews,33,34 overview of systematic care resources wisely.” reviews47 and draft guideline. Clinical and content experts engaged
