GUIDELINE HEALTH SERVICES CPD
KEYWORDS: screening, barrett, esophageal, esophagus, evidence, barrett esophagus, adenocarcinoma, task, force, task force, patients, guideline, esophageal adenocarcinoma, unsedated, risk


with the value that the task force places on using primary the protocols,31,32 systematic reviews,33,34 overview of systematic care resources wisely.” reviews47 and draft guideline. Clinical and content experts engaged with task force working group members to help them working group meetings, reviewing key supporting documents for The Canadian Task Force on Preventive Health Care is an inde- accuracy and by reviewing the final guideline. These experts are pendent panel of clinicians and methodologists that makes rec- external to the task force and do not vote on recommendations. ommendations on primary and secondary prevention in primary care (www.canadiantaskforce.ca). This guideline was developed Management of competing interests by a working group of 5 task force members with scientific sup- Funding for the task force is provided by the Public Health port from the Public Health Agency of Canada. Agency of Canada. The task force does not consider the views of The analytic framework for the guideline, including key ques- the funding body in developing its recommendations. All task tions, is available in Appendix 1A. We selected outcomes rated as force members are required to disclose financial and nonfinan- critical or important by patients (see below) or task force mem- cial competing interests. These are made available publicly on bers to inform the systematic reviews and recommendation. Ulti- the task force website. One task force member (H.S.) declared mately, there were 3 critical outcomes selected: all-cause mortal- that he is a gastroenterologist and performs endoscopy as part medically significant complications of screening; and 5 impor- the working group. All other task force members declared that tant outcomes selected: incidence of esophageal adenocarcin- they had no competing interests for this guideline. major and minor medical procedures, and overdiagnosis. peting interests at the outset of their participation and annually The recommendation in this guideline was informed by sys- thereafter. One expert declared a conflict in relation to research tematic reviews on the effectiveness of screening33,35 and patient that was partially supported by industry funds. As per the task force preferences and values,34,35 and an overview of systematic procedure manual, the task force leadership reviewed this declara- reviews on treatment effectiveness,35,47 all of which are available tion. It was determined that the declared conflict was unrelated to at www.canadiantaskforce.ca/guidelines/published-guidelines/ the present guideline and would not be expected to have an impact esophageal-adenocarcinoma/. Analysis of patient focus group on the transparency, integrity and acceptability of the
