GUIDELINE HEALTH SERVICES CPD
KEYWORDS: screening, barrett, esophageal, esophagus, evidence, barrett esophagus, adenocarcinoma, task, force, task force, patients, guideline, esophageal adenocarcinoma, unsedated, risk


unrelated to at www.canadiantaskforce.ca/guidelines/published-guidelines/ the present guideline and would not be expected to have an impact esophageal-adenocarcinoma/. Analysis of patient focus group on the transparency, integrity and acceptability of the guideline. results50,57 also informed the recommendation. The Evidence Review and Synthesis Centre at the Ottawa Implementation Hospital Research Institute conducted the 2 systematic reviews33–35 and the overview of systematic reviews35,47 between Clinicians should be aware of alarm symptoms for esophageal September 2016 and June 2018; prepublication search updates adenocarcinoma and evaluate, refer and manage patients tocols were registered on PROSPERO (CRD42017049993; investigation and management of those unresponsive to GERD CRD42017050014; CRD42018084825) and are available at www. treatment or with symptoms suggestive of other upper gastro- canadiantaskforce.ca/guidelines/published-guidelines/esophageal intestinal disorders (e.g., dyspepsia). -adenocarcinoma/.31,32,58 The task force used the Grading of Recommendations, Assess- Monitoring and evaluation ment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach to deter- Clinician awareness is an indicator of recommendation uptake. mine certainty of evidence and strength of recommendations Rates of screening endoscopy could also be monitored to deter- (Box 1).37 Appendix 1B provides the GRADE evidence-to-decision mine adherence. The task force will monitor new evidence and framework for the recommendations, which the entire task force update the recommendation if data become available that could reviewed and approved. influence its direction or strength. CMAJ | JULY 6, 2020 | VOLUME 192 | ISSUE 27 E773 ENILEDIUG Other guidelines between specific risk factors (e.g., older age [≥ 50 yr], male sex, abdominal obesity) and the development of Barrett esophagus or The Canadian Association of Gastroenterology, British Society of esophageal adenocarcinoma.4–10 Some guidelines have also incor- Gastroenterology and American Gastroenterological Association porated economic modelling studies5,62,63 or expert opinion4 in all recommend against routine screening among unselected addition to risk factor analysis. Additionally, studies of cohorts patients with chronic GERD.4,59,60 Some guidelines4,5,60–62 suggest with Barrett esophagus show that surveillance may provide a screening among patients with GERD who have multiple risk fac- small survival benefit.64–69 However, this benefit might be predomi- tors (Table 3). These recommendations are not based on screening nantly the effect of lead-time bias; we excluded patients with a studies but instead use epidemiological data showing a correlation previous diagnosis of Barrett esophagus from our guideline. Table 3: National and international recommendations on screening for esophageal adenocarcinoma, Barrett esophagus or dysplasia Guideline group Recommendations Canadian Task Force for Preventive Health The task force recommends not screening adults with chronic GERD for esophageal
