GUIDELINE HEALTH SERVICES CPD
KEYWORDS: screening, barrett, esophageal, esophagus, evidence, barrett esophagus, adenocarcinoma, task, force, task force, patients, guideline, esophageal adenocarcinoma, unsedated, risk


on screening for esophageal adenocarcinoma, Barrett esophagus or dysplasia Guideline group Recommendations Canadian Task Force for Preventive Health The task force recommends not screening adults with chronic GERD for esophageal adenocarcinoma Care, 2020 or precursor conditions (Barrett esophagus or dysplasia) (strong recommendation; very low-certainty evidence). Benign Barrett’s and CAncer Taskforce This guideline suggests against screening the general population for Barrett esophagus endoscopically “BoB CAT” consensus group,* 201520 or with nonendoscopic methods (conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence). 20155 of evidence). Screening for Barrett esophagus may be considered in men with chronic (> 5 yr) or frequent (weekly or more) symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease and 2 or more risk factors for Barrett esophagus or esophageal adenocarcinoma† (strong recommendation, moderate level of evidence). Screening for Barrett esophagus in women is not recommended. However, screening could be considered in individual cases as determined by the presence of multiple risk factors for Barrett esophagus or esophageal adenocarcinoma‡ (strong recommendation, low level of evidence). American Society for Gastrointestinal This guideline recommends esophagogastroduodenoscopy for patients who have symptoms suggesting Endoscopy, 201562 complicated gastroesophageal reflux disease or alarm symptoms§ (moderate-quality evidence). The guideline suggests that endoscopy be considered in patients with multiple risk factors¶ for Barrett esophagus (very low-quality evidence). Excellence, 201461 person has gastroesophageal reflux disease. The recommendation is to discuss the person’s preferences and their individual risk factors (for example, long duration of symptoms, increased frequency of symptoms, previous esophagitis, previous hiatus hernia, esophageal stricture or esophageal ulcers, or male gender). British Society of Gastroenterology, 20134 Screening with endoscopy is not feasible or justified for an unselected population with gastroesophageal reflux symptoms (recommendation grade B). Endoscopic screening can be considered in patients with chronic gastroesophageal reflux disease symptoms and multiple risk factors (at least 3 of the following: age ≥ 50 yr, white race, male sex, obesity). However, the threshold of multiple risk factors should be lowered in the presence of family history including at least 1 first-degree relative with Barrett or esophageal adenocarcinoma (recommendation grade C). American Gastroenterological Association, The guideline recommends against screening the general population with gastroesophageal reflux 201160 disease for Barrett esophagus (strong recommendation, low-quality evidence). In patients with multiple risk factors associated with esophageal adenocarcinoma (age ≥ 50 yr, male sex, white race, chronic gastroesophageal reflux disease, hiatal hernia, elevated BMI and intra-abdominal distribution of body fat), the guideline suggests screening for Barrett esophagus (weak recommendation, moderate-quality evidence). Canadian Association of
