GUIDELINE HEALTH SERVICES CPD
KEYWORDS: screening, barrett, esophageal, esophagus, evidence, barrett esophagus, adenocarcinoma, task, force, task force, patients, guideline, esophageal adenocarcinoma, unsedated, risk


white race, chronic gastroesophageal reflux disease, hiatal hernia, elevated BMI and intra-abdominal distribution of body fat), the guideline suggests screening for Barrett esophagus (weak recommendation, moderate-quality evidence). Canadian Association of Gastroenterology, Endoscopic screening for Barrett esophagus in patients with long-standing gastroesophageal reflux 200459 disease has not been shown to reduce mortality from esophageal adenocarcinoma (level III evidence, recommendation grade C). Note: BMI = body mass index, GERD = gastroesophageal reflux disease, WHR = waist–hip ratio. *International systematic evidence base group endorsed by International Society of Diseases of the Esophagus, Esophageal Charity Fund of Ireland, Fight Esophageal Reflux Together, Gastroenterology, International Working Group for Columnar Esophagus, European Society of Thoracic Surgeons (www.isde.net/bobcat). †These risk factors include age > 50 years, white race, presence of central obesity (waist circumference > 102 cm or WHR > 0.9), current or history of smoking, and a confirmed family history of Barrett esophagus or esophageal adenocarcinoma (in a first-degree relative). ‡Risk factors include age > 50 years, white race, chronic or frequent gastroesophageal reflux disease, central obesity: waist circumference > 88 cm, WHR > 0.8, current or history of smoking, and a confirmed family history of Barrett esophagus or esophageal adenocarcinoma (in a first-degree relative)) (strong recommendation, low level of evidence). §Alarm symptoms: Dysphagia, odynophagia, weight loss, bleeding or anemia. ¶Risk factors include white race, male sex, older age (> 50 years of age), prolonged gastroesophageal reflux disease symptoms (> 5 years), a family history of Barrett esophagus or adenocarcinoma of the esophagus, nocturnal reflux symptoms, hiatal hernia, increased BMI (≥ 25 kg/m2), tobacco use and intra-abdominal distribution of fat. E774 CMAJ | JULY 6, 2020 | VOLUME 192 | ISSUE 27 GUIDELINE 10. Runge TM, Abrams JA, Shaheen NJ. Epidemiology of Barrett’s esophagus Gaps in knowledge and esophageal adenocarcinoma. Gastroenterol Clin North Am 2015;4 4: 203-31. The limited use of a common definition for chronic GERD (i.e., 11. Vakil N, van Zanten SV, Kahrilas P, et al.; Global Consensus Group. The Montreal severity, duration, use of medication) reduces the generalizabil- definition and classification of gastroesophageal reflux disease: a global evidence- based consensus. Am J Gastroenterol 2006;101:1900-20. ity of existing studies. Ideally, there would be well-designed RCTs examining the effects of screening versus no screening among management of dyspepsia. Am J Gastroenterol 2017;112:1484. patients with chronic GERD. Barriers to feasibility, however, 13. Dent J, El-Serag HB, Wallander M, et al. Epidemiology of gastro-oesophageal include the low
