GUIDELINE HEALTH SERVICES CPD
KEYWORDS: screening, barrett, esophageal, esophagus, evidence, barrett esophagus, adenocarcinoma, task, force, task force, patients, guideline, esophageal adenocarcinoma, unsedated, risk


systematic reviews. Ottawa: Ottawa Hospital Research Institute; 2018. 2017;112:1256-64. 48. Lordick F, Mariette C, Haustermans K, et al.; ESMO Guidelines Committee. 70. Offman J, Muldrew B, O’Donovan M, et al. Barrett’s oESophagus trial 3 (BEST3): and follow-up. Ann Oncol 2016;27(Suppl 5):v50-v57. test with usual care to facilitate the diagnosis of oesophageal pre-cancer in primary care patients with chronic acid reflux. BMC Cancer 2018;18:784. 49. Zaman A, Hapke R, Sahagun G, et al. Unsedated peroral endoscopy with a video ultrathin endoscope: patient acceptance, tolerance, and diagnostic 71. Moinova HR, LaFramboise T, Lutterbaugh JD, et al. Identifying DNA methylation accuracy. Am J Gastroenterol 1998;93:1260-3. biomarkers for non-endoscopic detection of Barrett’s esophagus. Sci Transl Med 2018 Jan 17;10. pii: eaao5848. doi: . 50. Buckland D, Sayal R, Fredrickson K, et al. Patient preferences for esophageal adenocarcinoma screening: data summary. Prepared for the Canadian Task 72. Jankowski JAZ, de Caestecker J, Love SB, et al. Esomeprazole and aspirin in E776 CMAJ | JULY 6, 2020 | VOLUME 192 | ISSUE 27 GUIDELINE ventive Health Care made contributions to the development of the guideline and all gave final approval of the version of the guideline to be published. Competing interests: Harminder Singh declared that he is a gastroen- terologist and performs endoscopy as part of his clinical practice. Funding: Funding for the Canadian Task Force on Preventive Health dopharm and Amgen, outside the submitted work. No other competing the funding body are not considered by the task force in developing its interests were declared. recommendations. The views expressed in this article are those of the task force and do not necessarily represent those of the Public Health This article has been peer reviewed. Agency of Canada. Acknowledgements: The authors thank the Ottawa Health Research Institute (OHRI) Evidence Review and Synthesis Centre team (Candyce Hamel, Andrew Beck, Nadera Ahmadzai, Micere Thuku, Kusala Pussegoda, Adrienne Stevens, Becky Skidmore, Avijit Chatterjee, Donna E. Maziak, Kristopher Dennis, Lise Bjerre, Lorenzo Ferri, Beverley Shea, Brian Hutton, Julian Little and David Moher) for its evidence reviews that supported this guideline; Marc Avey, Susan Courage, Bradley Mitchelmore and Rachel Rodin of the Global Health and Guidelines Divi- Heather Limburg (nonvoting science team member), Marion Doull (non- opment of the guideline; and the Knowledge Translation Program, Li Ka member), Harminder Singh (nonvoting task force member), Brenda J. to patient engagement and knowledge translation work related to this Collaborating Members of the Canadian Task
