Heart sounds
KEYWORDS: heart, valve, sound, blood, left, sounds, ventricle, aortic, ventricular, pulmonary, right, murmurs, heart sound, heard, murmur


Overview The heart sounds are the noises (sound) generated by the beating heart and the resultant flow of blood through it. This is also called a heartbeat. In cardiac auscultation, an examiner uses a stethoscope to listen for these sounds, which provide important information about the condition of the heart. A picture showing the location of the heart valves and which sound they create In healthy adults, there are two normal heart sounds often described as a lub and a dub (or dup), that occur in sequence with each heart beat. These are the first heart sound (S ) and second heart sound (S ), produced by 1 2 the closure of the AV valves and semilunar valves respectively. In addition to these normal sounds, a variety of other sounds may be present including heart murmurs and adventitious sounds. Heart murmurs are generated by turbulent flow of blood, which may occur inside or outside the heart. Murmurs may be physiological (benign) or pathological (abnormal). Abnormal murmurs can be caused by stenosis restricting the opening of a heart valve, causing turbulence as blood flows through it. Valve insufficiency (or regurgitation) allows backflow of blood when the Diagram showing relations of incompetent valve is supposed to be closed. Different murmurs are opened heart to front of thoracic audible in different parts of the cardiac cycle, depending on the wall. Ant. Anterior segment of cause of the murmur. tricuspid valve. A O. Aorta. A.P. Anterior papillary muscle. In. Normal heart sounds Innominate artery. The first heart tone, or S , is caused by the sudden block of reverse blood flow due to closure of the 1 atrioventricular valves, mitral and tricuspid, at the beginning of ventricular contraction, or systole. When the pressure in the ventricles rises above the pressure in the atria, venous blood flow entering the ventricles is pushed back toward the atria, catching the valve leaflets, closing the inlet valves and preventing regurgitation of blood from the ventricles back into the atria. The S sound 1 results from reverberation within the blood associated with the sudden block of flow reversal by the valves. [1] Second heart tone S the "dub"(components A and P ) 2 2 2 The second heart tone, or S , is caused by the sudden block of reversing blood flow due to closure 2 of the aortic valve and pulmonary valve at the end of ventricular systole,
