Heart sounds
KEYWORDS: heart, valve, sound, blood, left, sounds, ventricle, aortic, ventricular, pulmonary, right, murmurs, heart sound, heard, murmur


or S , is caused by the sudden block of reversing blood flow due to closure 2 of the aortic valve and pulmonary valve at the end of ventricular systole, i.e beginning of ventricular diastole. As the left ventricle empties, its pressure falls below the pressure in the aorta, aortic blood flow quickly reverses back toward the left ventricle, catching the aortic valve leaflets and is stopped by aortic (outlet) valve closure. Similarly, as the pressure in the right ventricle falls below the pressure in the pulmonary artery, the pulmonary (outlet) valve closes. The S sound 2 results from reverberation within the blood associated with the sudden block of flow reversal. Splitting of the second heart sound {{#ev:youtube|5tBk1XuEyuM}} Physiologic Splitting During inspiration, negative intrathoracic pressure causes increased blood return into the right side of the heart, yet some slowing of emptying from the left side. The increased blood volume in the right ventricle causes the pulmonary valve to stay open longer during ventricular systole. This causes an increased delay in the P component of S relative to the A component. This is defined 2 2 2 as physiologic splitting of S . During expiration, the positive intrathoracic pressure causes 2 decreased blood return to the right side of the heart. The reduced volume in the right ventricle allows the pulmonary valve to close earlier at the end of ventricular systole, causing P to occur 2 earlier, and "closer" to A . It is physiological to hear a "splitting" of the second heart tone in 2 younger people, during inspiration and in the "pulmonary area", i.e. the 2nd ICS (intercostal space) at the left edge of the sternum. During expiration, the interval between the two components normally shortens and the S2 sounds becomes merged. Persistent Splitting Persistent splitting of S is seen in right bundle branch block (RBBB) and pulmonary hypertension. 2 Because of the delayed activation of the right heart in RBBB the pulmonary valve closure is delayed causing a split in the second heart sound which is persistent in both inspiration and expiration. Paradoxical Splitting 2/8 This phenomenon is seen in left bundle branch block (LBBB), aortic stenosis, severe heart failure and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Delayed activation of the left ventricle and in turn delayed closure of the aortic valve causes the pulmonic component of the second heart sound to occur before the aortic component. This split is better appreciated
