Heart sounds
KEYWORDS: heart, valve, sound, blood, left, sounds, ventricle, aortic, ventricular, pulmonary, right, murmurs, heart sound, heard, murmur


ventricle and in turn delayed closure of the aortic valve causes the pulmonic component of the second heart sound to occur before the aortic component. This split is better appreciated while expiration than during inspiration. Fixed Splitting If this splitting does not vary with inspiration, it is termed "fixed split S2" and is usually due to an atrial septal defect (ASD) or ventricular septal defect (VSD). The ASD or VSD creates a left to right shunt that increases the blood flow to the right side of the heart, thereby causing the pulmonic valve to close later than the aortic valve independent of inspiration/expiration. Loud P 2 Pulmonary hypertension is the most common cause of a loud P . When the pulmonary artery 2 pressures are more than 50 mm Hg a loud pulmonic component of S is heard in the left second 2 intercostal space (pulmonic area). Pulmonary hypertension is also a caiuse of persistent splitting of S . 2 Extra heart sounds Infrequently extra heart sounds are heard in both normal and abnormal situations. A gallop rhythm refers to a (usually abnormal) rhythm of the heart on auscultation. The normal heart rhythm contains two audible sounds, called S and S , giving the well-known "lub-dub" rhythm. 1 2 They are caused by the closing of valves in the heart. A gallop rhythm contains another sound, called S or S , dependent upon where in the cycle this added sound comes; it can also contain 3 4 both of these sounds. Third heart sound S 3 Rarely, there may be a third heart sound S3. S (or third heart sound) is the name of the vibration 3 which occurs during early diastole, shortly after the second heart sound S , giving a rhythm much 2 like the cadence in the word 'Kentucky'. It can be a normal finding in people under 40 years of age, but over this age is usually a sign of heart failure. It is usually low-pitched and difficult to hear, and is best heard with the bell of the stethoscope. An S rhythm is also known as ventricular gallop. The 3 third heart sound or protodiastolic sound is not of valvular origin, as it occurs at the beginning of diastole just after S2. This sound occurs when the left ventricle is not very compliant, and at the beginning of diastole the rush of blood into the
