Heart sounds
KEYWORDS: heart, valve, sound, blood, left, sounds, ventricle, aortic, ventricular, pulmonary, right, murmurs, heart sound, heard, murmur


the beginning of diastole just after S2. This sound occurs when the left ventricle is not very compliant, and at the beginning of diastole the rush of blood into the left ventricle suddenly is halted, resulting in a vibration of the ventricle and surrounding structures. The third heart sound is normal in children and young adults, but disappears before middle age. Abnormal reemergence of this sound late in life indicates a pathological state, often a sign of a failing left ventricle as in dilated congestive heart failure (CHF). This sound is called a protodiastolic gallop or ventricular gallop, a type of gallop rhythm. Pathophysiology and Etiology 3/8 It is caused by the sudden slowing of blood rushing in from the atrium into the ventricle as it is relaxing. Differential Diagnosis of Causes of an S 3 It is associated with heart failure, caused by conditions which have: Rapid ventricular filling • Mitral regurgitation - this is when one of the heart valves that usually stops blood going from the left ventricle to the left atria fails, allowing blood into the atria during systole. This means they will be overfilled when they come to contract, leading to the rapid ventricular filling. • Elevated left atrial and left ventricular filling pressures, usually a result of a stiffened and dilated left ventricle • Ventricular septal defect - this is a hole in the wall between the two ventricles, which allows rapid filling from the other ventricle. • Elevated atrial pressure • High-output states Poor Left Ventricular Function • Post-MI - the death of tissue in the ventricular wall due to loss of blood supply causes areas which do not move as well, if at all (hypokinetic and akinetic), meaning they do not relax quickly enough so the ventricular filling is relatively too quick. • Dilated cardiomyopathy - the ventricular walls are abnormal for a variety of reasons, and become thin and stiff so do not relax well. • Hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy • Cardiomegaly of a variety of causes In conditions affecting the pericardium or diseases that primarily affect the heart muscle (restrictive cardiomyopathies) a similar sound can be heard, but is usually more high-pitched and is called a 'pericardial knock'. The S3 can also be confused with a widely split S2, or a mitral opening snap, but these sounds are typically of much higher pitch and occur closer to the onset of S2.
