Heart sounds
KEYWORDS: heart, valve, sound, blood, left, sounds, ventricle, aortic, ventricular, pulmonary, right, murmurs, heart sound, heard, murmur


also be confused with a widely split S2, or a mitral opening snap, but these sounds are typically of much higher pitch and occur closer to the onset of S2. Treatment The gallop rhythm itself does not need to be treated; the underlying cause requires correction; depending on the etiology the gallop rhythm may resolve following treatment. Fourth heart sound S 4 S (or fourth heart sound) occurs just before S (thus right at the end of one whole cycle), giving a 4 1 cadence like the word 'Tennessee'. It is never normal. If the problem lies with the left ventricle, the gallop rhythm will be heard best at the cardiac apex (the point of the two ventricles). It will become more apparent with exercise, with the patient lying on their left-hand side, or with the patient holding expiration. If the culprit is the right ventricle, the abnormal rhythm will be most evident on the lower left hand side of the sternum, and will get louder with exercise and quick, deep inspiration [2]. The fourth heart sound S4 is sometimes audible in healthy children, but when audible in an adult is called a presystolic gallop or atrial gallop. This gallop is a sign of a 4/8 pathologic state, usually a failing left ventricle. This sound occurs just after atrial contraction ("atrial kick") and is the sound of blood being forced into a stiff/hypertrophic left ventricle. The combined presence of S3 and S4 is a quadruple gallop. At rapid heart rates, S3 and S4 may merge to produce a summation gallop. Pathophysiology and Etiology It is caused by the atria contracting forcefully in an effort to overcome an abnormally-stiff ventricle. Differential Diagnosis of Causes of an S 4 The S rhythm is associated with disorders that increases the stiffness of the ventricle, including: 4 • Long-standing hypertension • Aortic stenosis • Overload of the ventricle • Fibrosis of the ventricle • Left ventricular hypertrophy • Coronary Artery Disease • Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy • Pulmonary Hypertension Treatment Again, the rhythm itself does not require treatment; the underlying cause of ventricular stiffness or dysfunction does. Summation Gallop If a fast heart rate (tachycardia) is present along and S and S both occur, the rate may become 3 4 high enough so that the distinction between the two sounds is lost, and they summate into a single sound. Abnormal sounds Aortic area, pulmonic area, tricuspid
