Heart sounds
KEYWORDS: heart, valve, sound, blood, left, sounds, ventricle, aortic, ventricular, pulmonary, right, murmurs, heart sound, heard, murmur


may become 3 4 high enough so that the distinction between the two sounds is lost, and they summate into a single sound. Abnormal sounds Aortic area, pulmonic area, tricuspid area and mitral area are the area where we auscultate the heart. Heart murmurs are produced as a result of turbulent flow of blood, turbulence sufficient to produce audible noise. They usually are heard as a whooshing sound. The term murmur only refers to a sound believed to originating within blood flow through or near the heart; rapid blood velocity is necessary to produce a murmur. Though not fully reliable, soft murmurs are less likely to reflect a serious, if any, health problem; loud murmurs essentially always reflect a problem. Yet most heart problems do not produce any murmur and most valve problems also do not produce an audible murmur. The following paragraphs overview the murmurs most commonly heard in adults, adults who do not have major congenital heart abnormalities. • Regurgitation through the mitral valve is by far the most commonly heard murmur, sometimes fairly loud to a practiced ear, even though the volume of regurgitant blood flow may be quite 5/8 small. Yet, though often obvious, probably about 20% of cases of mitral regurgitation, though obvious using echocardiography visualization, do not produce an audible murmur. • Stenosis of the aortic valve is typically the next most commonly heart murmur, a systolic ejection murmur. This is more common in older adults or in those individuals having a two, not a three leaflet aortic valve. • Regurgitation through the aortic valve, if marked, is sometimes audible to a practiced ear with a high quality, especially electronically amplified, stethoscope. Generally, this is a very rarely heard murmur, even though aortic valve regurgitation is not so rare. Aortic regurgition, though obvious using echocardiography visualization, usually does not produce an audible murmur. • Stenosis of the mitral valve, if severe, also rarely produces an audible, low frequency soft rumbling murmur, best recognized by a practiced ear using a high quality, especially electronically amplified, stethoscope. • Either regurgitation through, or stenosis of, the tricuspid or pulmonary valves essentially never produces audible murmurs. • Other audible murmurs are associated with abnormal openings between the left ventricle and right heart or from the aortic or pulmonary arteries back into a lower pressure heart chamber. Gradations of Murmurs[3] ( Grade Description Very faint, heard only after Grade
