Heart sounds
KEYWORDS: heart, valve, sound, blood, left, sounds, ventricle, aortic, ventricular, pulmonary, right, murmurs, heart sound, heard, murmur


ventricle and right heart or from the aortic or pulmonary arteries back into a lower pressure heart chamber. Gradations of Murmurs[3] ( Grade Description Very faint, heard only after Grade 1 listener has "tuned in"; may not be heard in all positions. Quiet, but heard immediately Grade 2 after placing the stethoscope on the chest. Grade 3 Moderately loud. Grade 4 Loud, with palpable thrill. Very loud, with thrill. May be Grade 5 heard when stethoscope is partly off the chest. Very loud, with thrill. May be Grade 6 heard with stethoscope entirely off the chest. As noted, several different cardiac conditions can cause heart murmurs. However, the murmurs produced often change in complex ways with the severity of the cardiac disease. An astute physician can sometimes diagnose cardiac conditions with some accuracy based largely on the murmur, related physical examination and experience with the relative frequency of different heart conditions. However, with the advent of better quality and wider availability of echocardiography and other techniques, heart status can be recognized and quantified much more accurately than formerly possible with only a stethoscope, examination and experience. Clicks: With the advent of newer, non-invasive imaging techniques, the origin of other, so-called adventitial sounds or "clicks" has been appreciated. These are short, high-pitched sounds. There are two types of clicks, ejection click and non-ejection click. • Ejection clicks are caused by bicuspid aortic valve and bicuspid pulmonary valve early in the systole. 6/8 • Non-ejection clicks are seen in mitral valve prolapse, ventricular septal aneurysm, atrial septal aneurysm, cardiac tumors, pulmonary hypertension and systemic hypertension. Patients with mitral valve prolapse may have a mid-systolic click along with a murmur. • The atrioventricular valves of patients with mitral stenosis may open with an opening snap on the beginning of diastole. Rubs: Patients with pericarditis, an inflammation of the sac surrounding the heart (pericardium), may have an audible pericardial friction rub. This is a characteristic scratching, creaking, high- pitched sound emanating from the rubbing of both layers of inflammated pericardium. It is the loudest in systole, but can often be heard also at the beginning and at the end of diastole. It is very dependent on body position and breathing, and changes from hour to hour. There are a number of interventions that can be performed that alter the intensity and characteristics of abnormal heart sounds. These interventions can be performed to differentiate the
