Heart sounds
KEYWORDS: heart, valve, sound, blood, left, sounds, ventricle, aortic, ventricular, pulmonary, right, murmurs, heart sound, heard, murmur


to hour. There are a number of interventions that can be performed that alter the intensity and characteristics of abnormal heart sounds. These interventions can be performed to differentiate the different heart sounds and obtain a diagnosis of the cardiac anomaly that causes the heart sound. (See Heart murmur#Interventions that change murmur sounds.) Inhalation pressure also causes an increase in the venous blood return to the right side of the heart. Therefore, right-sided murmurs generally increase in intensity with inspiration. The increased volume of blood entering the right sided chambers of the heart restricts the amount of blood entering the left sided chambers of the heart. This causes left-sided murmurs to generally decrease in intensity during inspiration. With expiration, the opposite haemodynamic changes occur. This means that left-sided murmurs generally increase in intensity with expiration. Having the patient lie supine and raising their legs up to a 45 degree angle facilitates an increase in venous return to the right side of the heart producing effects similar to inhalation-increased blood flow. Surface anatomy The opening and closing of the valves is usually much less loud than the sound of the blood rushing through the valve and "colliding" with the subsequent barrier. Because of this, auscultation to determine function of a valve is usually not performed at the position of the valve, but at a downstream position where the listener can best hear the blood colliding after the valve is closed. Pulmonary valve (to pulmonary trunk) second intercostal space left upper sternal border Aortic valve (to aorta) second intercostal space right upper sternal border Mitral valve (to left ventricle) fifth intercostal space lateral to left midclavicular line Tricuspid valve (to right ventricle) fourth intercostal space lower left sternal border One can remember the positions of the sounds by the mnemonic "All The Presidents Men". [3] • A - Aortic - Right second intercostal space • T - Tricuspid - Left fourth intercostal space sternal border • P - Pulmonic - Left second intercostal space sternal border • M - Mitral - Fifth intercostal space lateral to left midclavicular line Recording heart sounds 7/8 With the advent of electronic stethoscopes, it is now possible to conveniently record heart sounds. One electronic stethoscope provides a port to output stethoscope sounds to an external recording device, such as a notebook computer or MP3 recorder. The same connection can then be used to listen to the
