Hypertensive Emergencies
KEYWORDS: hypertensive, pressure, acute, patients, used, failure, emergencies, blood, nitroprusside, nitroglycerin, hypertensive emergencies, blood pressure, include, medications, renal


A hypertensive emergency is severe hypertension (often defined as systolic blood pressure (BP) ≥ 180 mm Hg and/or diastolic blood pressure ≥ 120 mm Hg) with signs of damage to target organs (primarily the brain, cardiovascular system, and kidneys). Diagnosis is by BP measurement, ECG, urinalysis, and serum electrolyte and creatinine measurements. Treatment is immediate BP reduction with IV antihypertensives. Signs of target-organ damage include (1): Hypertensive encephalopathy Hypertensive retinopathy Preeclampsia or eclampsia Acute left ventricular failure with pulmonary edema Myocardial ischemia Acute aortic dissection Renal failure Damage is rapidly progressive and sometimes fatal. Hypertensive encephalopathy may involve a failure of cerebral autoregulation of blood flow. Normally, as blood pressure increases, cerebral vessels constrict to maintain constant cerebral perfusion. Above a mean arterial pressure (MAP) of about 160 mm Hg (lower for people who are normotensive whose BP suddenly increases), the cerebral vessels begin to dilate rather than remain constricted. As a result, the very high BP is transmitted directly to the capillary bed with transudation and exudation of plasma into the brain, causing cerebral edema, including papilledema. Although many patients with stroke and intracranial hemorrhage present with elevated BP, elevated BP is often a consequence rather than a cause of the condition. Whether rapidly lowering BP is beneficial in these conditions is unclear (2); it may even be harmful. CLINICAL CALCULATORS Mean Vascular Pressure (systemic or pulmonary) Hypertensive urgencies Severe hypertension (eg, systolic pressure > 180 mm Hg) without target-organ damage (except perhaps grades 1 to 2 retinopathy) may be considered a hypertensive urgency. Although BP at these very high levels often concerns clinicians, acute complications are unlikely, so immediate BP reduction is not required. Anxiety is by far the most common cause of hypertensive urgency. Treating the anxiety by counseling and/or use of anxiety-alleviating medications is often helpful in reducing BP (3) and thus reducing the incidence of hypertensive urgencies. If elevated BP persists, patients should be started on medications, such as combination therapy with 2 oral antihypertensives (for severe hypertension), and closely evaluated for treatment efficacy on an outpatient basis. Symptoms and Signs of Hypertensive Emergencies Blood pressure is elevated, often markedly (systolic pressure > 180 mm Hg and/or diastolic pressure ≥ 120 mm Hg). Central nervous system symptoms include rapidly changing neurologic abnormalities (eg, confusion, transient cortical blindness, hemiparesis, hemisensory defects, seizures). Cardiovascular symptoms include chest pain and dyspnea. Renal involvement may be asymptomatic, although severe
