Hypertensive Emergencies
KEYWORDS: hypertensive, pressure, acute, patients, used, failure, emergencies, blood, nitroprusside, nitroglycerin, hypertensive emergencies, blood pressure, include, medications, renal


system symptoms include rapidly changing neurologic abnormalities (eg, confusion, transient cortical blindness, hemiparesis, hemisensory defects, seizures). Cardiovascular symptoms include chest pain and dyspnea. Renal involvement may be asymptomatic, although severe azotemia due to advanced renal failure may cause lethargy or nausea. Physical examination focuses on target organs, with neurologic examination, fundoscopy, and cardiovascular examination. Global cerebral deficits (eg, confusion, obtundation, coma), with or without focal deficits, suggest encephalopathy; normal mental status with focal deficits suggests stroke. 2/7 Severe retinopathy (sclerosis, cotton-wool spots, arteriolar narrowing, hemorrhage, papilledema) is usually present with hypertensive encephalopathy, and some degree of retinopathy is present in many other hypertensive emergencies. Jugular venous distention, basilar lung crackles, and a third heart sound suggest pulmonary edema. Asymmetry of pulses between arms suggests aortic dissection. Diagnosis of Hypertensive Emergencies Systolic blood pressure > 180 mm Hg Testing to identify target-organ involvement: ECG, urinalysis, serum electrolytes, and creatinine; if neurologic findings, head CT Testing typically includes ECG, urinalysis, serum electrolytes, and creatinine. Patients with neurologic findings require head CT to diagnose intracranial bleeding, edema, or infarction. Patients with chest pain or dyspnea require an ECG and chest radiograph. ECG abnormalities suggesting acute target-organ damage include acute ischemic changes. Urinalysis abnormalities typical of renal involvement include red blood cells (RBCs), RBC casts, and proteinuria. Diagnosis is based on the presence of a BP > 180 mm Hg and findings of target-organ involvement. Treatment of Hypertensive Emergencies Initiate short-acting IV medication (eg, labetalol, clevidipine, esmolol) in the emergency department Admit to intensive care unit (ICU) where titratable IV medications (eg, nitroprusside, fenoldopam, nicardipine) can be monitored Goal: 20 to 25% reduction MAP in 1 to 2 hours Hypertensive emergencies are treated in an ICU; blood pressure is progressively (although not abruptly) reduced using a short-acting, titratable IV medication. Choice of medication and speed and degree of reduction vary somewhat with the target organ involved, but generally a 20 to 25% reduction in MAP over about an hour or two is appropriate, with further titration based on symptoms. Achieving “normal” BP urgently is not necessary. Typical first-line medications include nitroprusside, fenoldopam, nicardipine, and labetalol (see table Parenteral Medications for Hypertensive Emergencies). Nitroglycerin alone is less potent. TABLE Parenteral Medications for Hypertensive Emergencies 3/7 Selected Adverse Medication Special Indications Effects* Most hypertensive emergencies Atrial fibrillation, fever, Clevidipine insomnia, nausea, Should be used cautiously headache in patients with acute heart failure Acute left ventricular failure
