Hypertensive Emergencies
KEYWORDS: hypertensive, pressure, acute, patients, used, failure, emergencies, blood, nitroprusside, nitroglycerin, hypertensive emergencies, blood pressure, include, medications, renal


tubing are wrapped in an opaque covering. Nitroglycerin is a vasodilator that affects veins more than arterioles. It can be used to manage hypertension during and after coronary artery bypass graft surgery, acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina pectoris, and acute pulmonary edema. IV nitroglycerin is preferable to nitroprusside for patients with severe coronary artery disease because nitroglycerin increases coronary flow, whereas nitroprusside tends to decrease coronary flow to ischemic areas, possibly because of a “steal” mechanism. For long-term BP control, nitroglycerin must be used with other medications. The most common adverse effect is headache, occurring in the majority of patients (2); others include tachycardia, nausea, vomiting, apprehension, restlessness, muscular twitching, and palpitations. Nicardipine, a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker with less negative inotropic effects than nifedipine, acts primarily as a vasodilator. It is most often used for postoperative hypertension and during pregnancy. It may cause flushing, headache, and tachycardia; it can decrease glomerular filtration rate (GFR) in patients with renal insufficiency. Key Points A hypertensive emergency is significantly elevated blood pressure (eg, systolic blood pressure > 180 mm Hg and/or diastolic pressure ≥ 120 mm Hg) that causes target-organ damage; it requires intravenous therapy and hospitalization. Target-organ damage includes hypertensive encephalopathy, preeclampsia and eclampsia, acute left ventricular failure with pulmonary edema, myocardial ischemia, acute aortic dissection, and renal failure. Do ECG and urinalysis, measure serum electrolytes and creatinine, and, for patients with neurologic symptoms or signs, obtain head CT. Reduce mean arterial pressure by about 20 to 25% over the first hour using a short- acting, titratable IV medication such as clevidipine, nitroglycerin, fenoldopam, nicardipine, or labetalol. It is not necessary to achieve “normal” blood pressure urgently (especially true in acute stroke).
