Case report
KEYWORDS: disease, wilson, case, wilson disease, bone, copper, rickets, reported, bmj, rta, presenting, renal, metabolic, liver, report


Case report Metabolic bone disease heralding the diagnosis of Wilson’s disease Sanjay Bhadada , Bhanu Malhotra, Anirudh Shetty , Soham Mukherjee Endocrinology, Post Graduate SUMMARY significant history of decreased vision for which he and Research, Chandigarh, India presenting with bilateral cataract, recurrent kidney During preoperative evaluation, he was also found stones, history of refractory rickets and bone deformity. to have bilateral nephrolithiasis with shrunken right Correspondence to He had been consuming calcium and vitamin D kidney and gross left hydroureteronephrosis. Neph- Sanjay Bhadada; supplements and had been operated for cataract rolithiasis was managed with ureteroscopic stone bhadadask@ rediffmail. com and renal stone disease, prior to reporting in our removal and a double J (DJ) stent was placed. He clinic without any significant laboratory or clinical also had intermittent knee arthralgia requiring anal- Accepted 7 December 2022 improvement. The patient was diagnosed as having gesics. At 8 years of age, he developed prolonged Fanconi’s syndrome attributable to Wilson’s disease. jaundice (3 months) which gradually resolved with This patient highlights that in case of resistant rickets, conservative treatment. He was a developmentally a high index of suspicion must be invoked for Wilson’s normal child with no history of delayed dentition, disease. Timely recognition of this entity results in prompt dental abcesses, failure to thrive or poor scholastic ministrations and prevention of disability. performance. He had adequate calcium intake and sunlight exposure. There was no history of recurrent pain abdomen or loose stools. No family history of pathologic fractures was noted. On examination; BACKGROUND his height was 158 cm (height SD score=−2.6), Wilson’s disease (WD) is a rare disorder of copper Body MAss Index=24.4 kg/m2. He had bilateral KF metabolism due to autosomal recessive muta- tion of ATP7B gene on chromosome 13q14- 21.1 ring and bilateral pseudophakia. There was right genu varus deformity, depressed posterior fonta- This gene codes for a copper-t ransporting ATPase nelle, lumbar scoliosis to the left (figure 1). (Cu(2þ)-t ransporting beta polypeptide, ATP7B). This protein is expressed mainly in the hepatocyte and is responsible for the incorporation of copper INVESTIGATIONS in serum ceruloplasmin (the main copper transport On investigations, he had mild transaminitis and protein) and also its elimination in bile. The loss of deranged renal function test. Serum calcium and function of this gene causes a toxic accumulation of 25 (OH) vitamin D levels were normal, potassium copper in the hepatocyte and neurological damage.2 and phosphate were low,
