Case report
KEYWORDS: disease, wilson, case, wilson disease, bone, copper, rickets, reported, bmj, rta, presenting, renal, metabolic, liver, report


calcium and function of this gene causes a toxic accumulation of 25 (OH) vitamin D levels were normal, potassium copper in the hepatocyte and neurological damage.2 and phosphate were low, parathormone and total So, patients primarily present with neurologic or alkaline phosphatase were elevated (table 1). There hepatic symptoms. Less common manifestations was glucosuria on 24 hours urinary examination are renal calculi, haemolytic anaemia, ocular signs but no hypercalciuria (Table 2). TmP/GFR was low (bilateral cataracts and Kayser-F leischer (KF) ring) (0.98 mg/dL) suggestive of phosphaturia. Arterial and bone pathologies.3–5 Renal involvement is in the blood gas analysis showed non-a nion gap metabolic form of renal tubular defects (renal tubular acidosis acidosis (pH=7.26, HCO=8.9, anion gap=12). (RTA) types 1 and 2 or Fanconi’s syndrome).5 6 The 3 Ultrasound abdomen revealed coarsened hepatic musculoskeletal manifestations may vary from calf echotexture and multiple left renal calculi (9 mm) pain, arthropathy to refractory osteomalacia, osteo- in pelvi-c alyceal system with DJ stent in situ. Tran- porosis and recurrent fractures.7 Here, we report an sient elastography (Fibroscan) showed increased interesting case of metabolic bone disease leading to liver stiffness (LSM=15.4 kPa, IQR=1.8kPa, the diagnosis of Wilsons’s disease. CAP=238dB/m). Densitometry revealed decreased bone mineral density (BMD) at lumbar spine CASE PRESENTATION (BMD=0.731 g/cm2, Z score=−3) and neck of A young man in his 20s born out of non- femur (BMD=0.419 g/cm2, Z score=−4). Radio- consanguineous marriage had presented with defor- graphs showed lucency at metaphyseal ends of mity of right leg that was noticed after a traumatic long bones with provisional lines of calcification © BMJ Publishing Group fracture of right femur. The fracture was sustained (figure 1). CEMRI brain was normal. In view of non- Limited 2023. No commercial 2 years back after fall from bicycle. It was managed anion gap metabolic acidosis with glucosuria, urine re- use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ. with internal fixation and the implant (intramed- pH (7.0), hypophosphatemia and MBD, a possi- ullary nail) was removed 1 year later, following bility of RTA was considered. Presence of jaundice, To cite: Bhadada S, which he sustained fragility fracture at the same site transaminitis, coarsened liver echotexture, bilateral Malhotra B, Shetty A, in right femur. Hence, redo fixation was done and KF ring, cataract pointed to WD as an aetiology for et al. BMJ Case Rep 2023;16:e252290. the nail was left in-s itu permanently. This defor- RTA. Serum ceruloplasmin
