Case report
KEYWORDS: disease, wilson, case, wilson disease, bone, copper, rickets, reported, bmj, rta, presenting, renal, metabolic, liver, report


done and KF ring, cataract pointed to WD as an aetiology for et al. BMJ Case Rep 2023;16:e252290. the nail was left in-s itu permanently. This defor- RTA. Serum ceruloplasmin was normal and 24 hour doi:- mity was associated with difficulty in walking and urinary copper levels were >40 µg (table 2). Due 252290 pain but there was no muscle weakness. He had to high suspicion, liver biopsy was performed for Bhadada S, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2023;16:e252290. doi: 1 Case report Table 2 24 hours urinary profile of patient Calcium (50–300) mg/TV 172.5 Phosphate (400–1300) mg/TV 511.5 Glucose +++ Fractional excretion of copper (FePO) (<50 µg/dL) 0.577 involvement. Cavallino et al reported a 12- year-o ld man who was being managed as vitamin D resistant rickets since 8 years of age. Detailed neurological evaluation revealed subtle neurological signs and on further evaluation, he was diagnosed to have WD.8 Shin reported a 25- year-o ld man who had recurrent fractures, low BMD and mild transaminitis. He was observed to have WD on evaluation for osteopenia, work-u p did not reveal any RTA or Figure 1 (A) Genu varus deformity of the right leg. (B) Radiographs neurologic involvement.9 Indians tend to have higher predelic- showing rarified bones with thin cortices, (C) provisional lines of tion for rickets, especially as a presenting manifestation of WD, calcification, (D) scoliosis, left side renal stones, (D) right femur with in the absence of hepatic or CNS manifestation.10–17 Wadia et al implant in situ and (F) skull with depressed posterior fontanelle. first drew attention in this regard and observed that rickets could be the striking manifestations of WD.10 A case of 12- year-o ld girl who had progressive genu valgum in the absence of any CNS/ copper content, which confirmed the diagnosis of WD. Genetic hepatic manifestations and was subsequently found to have renal analysis could not be done due to financial constraints. rickets due to RTA secondary to WD was recently reported.11 Another reported case was of 13‐year‐old boy with knock‐knee TREATMENT deformity, which progressed over 8 years without any other He was advised low copper diet and was initiated on oral zinc, manifestations. He was diagnosed to have RTA secondary to sodium bicarbonate, cholecalciferol, calcium and active vitamin WD.12 Palkar et al reported a case of two sisters presenting with D supplementation. Potassium replacement was also needed progressive bowing of legs, humerus fracture
