Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


led to the common misconception that carcinoid tumors are benign or always indolent, current correct nomenclature of this gastrointestinal malignancy solely uses the term NEN. This chapter focuses on the clinical features, diagnosis, and management of the different well-differentiated NET along the gastrointestinal tract. The reader is referred to chapter “Diffuse hormonal systems” for lung NEN ( 4 ), where well-differentiated tumors are still termed typical or atypical carcinoids, and to chapter “Pathophysiology and treatment of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors” for panNEN ( 5 ). EPIDEMIOLOGY NEN are historically considered a rare cancer type with an incidence of all subtypes combined of 5-10 per 100,000 persons per year ( 6 ). Two registry studies have shown that the incidence of NEN is rising several fold over the last decades. In the United States of America, NEN incidence increased 6.4-fold from 1.09 to 6.98 per 100,000 population per year between 1973 and 2012 ( 7 ), while in the United Kingdom rates rose 3.7-fold from 2.35 to 8.61 per 100,000 population per year between 1995 and 2018 ( 8 ). Within the GEP subtypes, small intestinal, pancreatic, and rectal NEN are most prevalent and have seen the clearest rising incidence rates. Part of the increased detection rate is caused by the rise in the absolute number of endoscopy procedures and radiological imaging, shifting the diagnosis more often towards incidentalomas. On the other hand, increased awareness among pathologists and improved classification likely also plays a role. The striking rise of NEN incidence compared to the stable incidence of all other malignant neoplasms in recent decades ( 7 , 8 ) might suggest that a currently unknown epigenetic or environmental risk factor could stimulate NEN carcinogenesis. The combination of increased detection as well as improved survival leads to an overall increase in NEN prevalence. The recent epidemiological data in the United Kingdom ( 8 ) suggest that NEN should not be considered a rare form of cancer anymore, as it comprised the 10 th most prevalent cancer. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Much is unknown about the pathogenesis of gastrointestinal NET ( 9 ). Besides the driver function of gastrin in two subtypes of gastric NET (see below), the causative factors for NET formation in the gut remain elusive. Genetic mutations have been identified as driving carcinogenesis across a wide array of malignancies, but – even in late, advanced stages of disease – NET remains among the tumor
