Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


elusive. Genetic mutations have been identified as driving carcinogenesis across a wide array of malignancies, but – even in late, advanced stages of disease – NET remains among the tumor types with the lowest amount of tumor mutational burden or driver mutations ( 10 ). Contrarily, NEC show a high tumor mutational burden with gene mutations in well-known oncogenes or tumor suppressor genes, such as TP53 , KRAS , RB1 ( 11 ). Dedicated studies of small intestinal NET genotypes with next generation sequencing have failed to detect prevalent mutations. The most commonly mutated gene in small intestinal NET, CDKN1B encoding cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27, was found to be mutated in 10% of cases ( 12 ). Germline mutation in CDKN1B also cause the rare endocrine tumor syndrome multiple endocrine neoplasia type 4 (MEN4), which predisposes to the occurrence of gastric, duodenal, and pancreatic NET among other tumor types ( 13 ). Whole genome sequencing of synchronous multifocal small intestinal NET also failed to detect common genetic drivers, but instead observed clonal independency of tumors within individuals ( 14 ). No clear driver mutations have been identified for the other subtypes of gastrointestinal NET as well. Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) is besides primary hyperparathyroidism and pituitary NET primarily associated with the occurrence of pancreatic, bronchial, and thymic NET ( 15 ). However, duodenal NET can also arise within the context of MEN1 and these have a predilection to secrete gastrin, leading to gastrinoma or Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. This in turn stimulates secondary gastric NET formation ( 16 ). A genome-wide association study of 405 patients compared to more than 600,000 control subjects in two cohorts revealed an association between the occurrence of small intestinal NET and single nucleotide polymorphisms in 6 genes ( 17 ). The most interesting locus was of a missense mutation in the intestinal stem cell factor LGR5, suggesting a role for aberrant cellular differentiation in the development of small intestinal NET. Contrary to DNA mutations, chromosomal aberrations are prevalent in gastrointestinal NET. For small intestinal NET copy number variations have been frequently detected. The most prominent observed change is loss of chromosome 18 in up to 70% of cases, followed by losses in chromosomes 9, 11 and 16 and gains in chromosomes 4, 5, 14 and 20 ( 18 ). Whether these changes have a causative role in the development of small intestinal NET is
