Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


11 and 16 and gains in chromosomes 4, 5, 14 and 20 ( 18 ). Whether these changes have a causative role in the development of small intestinal NET is currently unknown. Due to the lack of obvious DNA changes contributing to NET pathogenesis, studies have investigated the role of epigenetics, e.g. changes to the chromatin that affect gene transcription without changing the DNA code ( 19 ). In the largest study to date in 97 patients with small intestinal NET, integrated genetic, epigenetic, and transcriptomic analysis detected 3 molecular subtypes, that differed in their survival outcome ( 20 ). DNA methylation analysis found that small intestinal NET were highly epigenetically dysregulated. The prognostically favorable molecular subgroup was associated with loss of chromosome 18, while another subgroup displayed no copy numbers alterations. NET in the molecular subgroup with inferior survival outcome displayed multiple copy number variations. Because of the link between enteroendocrine cells and the bowel content, there have been speculations on carcinogenic factors in the bowel content. This could include but is not limited to dietary factors, microbial species, and microplastics. Further research is needed before a clear role can be identified for these factors. COMMON FEATURES NET of the gastrointestinal tract share many features owing to their collective origin from enteroendocrine cells. Originally described as APUD (amine precursor uptake and decarboxylation) tumors or APUDomas by Anthony Pearse (1916-2003) these neoplasms retain the potential to produce and secrete several hormonal substances in the form of amines and peptides ( 3 , 21 ). These secretagogues are stored in intracellular dense-core secretory granules, which are released upon fusion with the plasma membrane. Gastrointestinal NET, like other types of NET, express markers specific for their neuroendocrine phenotype. The two most prevalent markers, synaptophysin and chromogranin A, form the basis for a immunohistochemical diagnosis of a NEN cell ( 22 ). Stage Similar to other cancers, NET are staged according to the TNM classification, which signifies key therapeutic and prognostic information ( 2 ), Table 1 . Whereas stage I and II indicate local disease confined to the presence of the primary tumor (T1-4 N0 M0), stage III signifies the presence of regional spread to lymph node metastases (T1-4 N1 M0). Distant metastases (T1-4 N0-1 M1) are classified as stage IV disease. Table 1. TNM staging of gastrointestinal neuroendocrine neoplasms according to the 8th edition of the AJCC Cancer Staging Manual (2018)
