Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


years to significantly grow (e.g., appendix NET) to very aggressive inevitably leading to death (small cell lung NEC) ( 23 ). In order to predict prognosis and guide management all gastrointestinal NEN should be examined histologically for differentiation (well versus poorly differentiated), mitotic index (per 10 HPF), and ki67 index. The latter encompasses staining of the nuclear proliferation marker ki67 by the MIB1 antibody. Different grading cut-offs have been used in the past ( 24 ), but the WHO 2019 classification of digestive system tumors and 2022 classification of (neuro)endocrine tumors separate well-differentiated NET from poorly differentiated NEC on the basis of the histological phenotype ( 2 , 25 ). In cases of an ambiguous entity, molecular analysis or staining of Rb1 and p53 can point towards the presence of a NEC ( 26 ). NET are divided into grade 1, 2 and 3, whereas NEC by definition are grade 3. NET grading is discerned through the combination of mitotic and ki67 index, with the highest value counted ( Table 2 ) ( 2 , 25 ). Due to the differences in biological behavior, tumor grading is key to management of GI NET, especially in cases of metastatic and consequently incurable disease. Table 2. Classification of gastrointestinal neuroendocrine neoplasms, according to 2022 WHO classification of endocrine and neuroendocrine tumors and 2019 WHO classification of tumors of the digestive system View in own window Well-differentiated NEN Ki67 proliferation index Mitotes per 2 mm 2 NET Grade 1 <3% <2 NET Grade 2 3–20% 2–20 NET Grade 3 >20% >20 Poorly differentiated NEN Small cell NEC Large cell NEC >20% >20 HORMONAL SYNDROMES IN NET Due to their endocrine heritage, gastrointestinal NET can produce and secrete excessive amounts of hormonal substances, that can elicit clinical syndromes in patients ( 22 ). All patients presenting with a gastrointestinal NET should be examined by history taking and physical exam for the presence of a hormonal syndrome, as this has important therapeutic and prognostic consequences. In case of a suspected hormonal syndrome, appropriate biochemical analysis should be performed for the elevation of the causative hormonal peptides or amines ( 27 ). Carcinoid Syndrome The carcinoid syndrome is the most common hormonal syndrome encountered in gastrointestinal NET and even NEN in general. Estimations fluctuate that around 20% of patients with stage IV midgut NET suffer from carcinoid syndrome ( 28 ). It is mainly characterized by
