Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


NET and even NEN in general. Estimations fluctuate that around 20% of patients with stage IV midgut NET suffer from carcinoid syndrome ( 28 ). It is mainly characterized by symptoms of secretory diarrhea and vasodilatory flushes. Occasionally, bronchospasms can also occur ( 29 ). In severe and long-standing cases carcinoid heart disease (CHD) can arise, characterized by plaque-like depositions in mainly right-sided heart valves and endocardium ( 30 ). Following acute stressors, some NET associated with carcinoid syndrome are able to secrete massive amounts of vasoactive compounds, leading to hemodynamic instability. This type of vasodilatory shock, also known as carcinoid crisis, can be defined as an acute onset of stressor-induced hemodynamic instability in patients with carcinoid syndrome and can be observed during the induction of anesthesia and after tumor lysis following embolization or peptide receptor radionuclide therapy ( 31 ). The principal effector of carcinoid syndrome is thought to be the amine serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) ( 32 ), which is also secreted physiologically by several subtypes of neuroendocrine cells in the gut and lungs. A variety of preclinical and clinical studies support a central role of serotonin in the pathophysiology of carcinoid syndrome-related diarrhea and CHD, while its role in flushing in carcinoid syndrome patients is still controversial. Other hormonal substances postulated to contribute to the carcinoid syndrome include tachykinins, catecholamines, kallikrein and histamine ( 33 ). Carcinoid syndrome predominantly arises in NET of midgut origin, comprised of jejunum, ileum, cecum, and ascending colon. This location specificity is presumably due to carcinogenesis within the enterochromaffin (EC) cell, which uses serotonin as its main secretagogue to communicate with the autonomous nervous system and influence bowel motility ( 4 ). This hormonal syndrome can also be encountered in bronchial NET (typical or atypical carcinoid) or NET of other origin (e.g., ovarian, pancreatic, unknown primary). Importantly, tumor seeding beyond the portal circulation is a prerequisite for carcinoid syndrome, as its causative hormones are inactivated by hepatocytes ( 34 ). For midgut NET, carcinoid syndrome thus hallmarks spread beyond locoregional disease, with liver metastases being present in more than 90% of cases. Alternatively, the tumor sites may secrete through the retroperitoneal or ovarian/testicular venous drainage, effectively bypassing the portal circulation and drain directly on the inferior caval vein. The presence of carcinoid syndrome is a negative prognostic indicator, which is likely caused by its association with tumor bulk ( 28 , 35 ). Within
