Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


the inferior caval vein. The presence of carcinoid syndrome is a negative prognostic indicator, which is likely caused by its association with tumor bulk ( 28 , 35 ). Within this spectrum, CHD is also associated with decreased survival in patients in univariate analyses ( 36 ). Because of these features carcinoid syndrome should be diligently investigated in all patients with NET and actively managed alongside antiproliferative therapy (see management section below). Other Functioning Syndromes Besides carcinoid syndrome, other NEN-associated hormonal syndromes are predominantly encountered in patients with a panNEN. Duodenal NET can in rare cases elicit hormonal syndromes that are also seen in pancreatic NET, such as gastrinoma ( 16 ), VIPoma ( 37 ), and somatostatinoma ( 38 ). Ectopic hormonal production has also been described in gastrointestinal NET in limited case reports. However, these functioning syndromes are more frequented encountered in pancreatic (ACTH, PTHrP, GHRH) or lung NET (SIADH, ACTH), see the Endotext chapter on Paraneoplastic syndromes related to Neuroendocrine Tumors ( 39 ). PRIMARY NET LOCATIONS Esophagus Well-differentiated NET of the upper alimentary tract are extremely rare. The esophagus is a predilection place for the occurrence of NEC ( 40 ). Alternatively, mixed neuroendocrine-non neuroendocrine neoplasms (MiNEN) can be encountered in the esophagus, similar to other gastrointestinal sites. Formerly these tumors were designated as Mixed adeno-neuroendocrine carcinoma (MANEC). This aggressive tumor entity is comprised of both a NEN component (NET or NEC) as well as an adenocarcinoma component, with the latter being responsible for the prognostic outcome ( 2 ). Stomach The neuroendocrine cells in the stomach can give rise to several NEN subtypes, depending on the underlying pathophysiology. Central to understanding gastric NEN is the dependency of the histamine-producing enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cells on gastrin stimulation. Chronic hypergastrinemia due to several causes can lead to ECL cell hyperplasia and gastric NET formation, so called ECLoma. When an ECLoma occurs during compensatory gastrin elevations this is termed a type I gastric NET ( 41 ), accounting for 75-80% of gastric NEN. This is most commonly caused by atrophic gastritis due to antibodies against intrinsic factor or parietal cells, which is also causative for pernicious anemia. Alternatively, type I gastric NET have been described following Helicobacter pylori infection, chronic use of proton pump inhibitors, or mutations in the proton pump gene ( ATP4A ) and resulting hypergastrinemia ( 42 - 45 ). When ECLoma arise due to a
