Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


chronic use of proton pump inhibitors, or mutations in the proton pump gene ( ATP4A ) and resulting hypergastrinemia ( 42 - 45 ). When ECLoma arise due to a gastrin-producing NET in the pancreas or duodenum (Zollinger-Ellison syndrome), these are termed type 2 gastric NET, which is responsible for 5% of all gastric NET cases. This pathology is generally restricted to patients with MEN-I and a duodenal gastrinoma ( 46 ). A well-differentiated gastric NET arising in the presence of normal fasting gastrin levels is termed a type 3 NET and accounts for approximately 15-20% of gastric NET. Some authors have proposed the rare gastric NEC as the type 4 gastric NEN ( 9 ), Table 3 . Table 3. Subtypes of Gastric Neuroendocrine Neoplasm View in own window Hypergastrinemia, ECL cell hyperplasia Growth Features Gastric NET type 1 Yes Indolent Secondary to atrophic gastritis, helicobacter pylori infection, proton pump inhibition or ATP4A mutation Gastric NET type 2 Yes Indolent Secondary to gastrinoma (Zollinger Ellison syndrome) Gastric NET type 3 No Intermediate Sporadic Gastric NEC type 4 No Aggressive Sporadic Biological behavior of the gastric NEN subtypes differs widely with generally indolent course for type 1 and 2 NET, which are predominantly grade 1 and can be characterized by multiplicity ( 47 - 49 ). Only a few metastatic cases have been reported in the literature, without clear evidence of impaired survival ( 50 ). Type 3 gastric NET and type 4 gastric NEC were previously considered as a single subtype, which was accompanied by a high rate of metastases and poor survival outcome. However, recent analyses show lower grade, metastatic potential, and better outcome of type 3 gastric NET than previously assumed ( 51 , 52 ). The vast majority of gastric NET is clinically non-functional, although ghrelin production has been described in NET presumably derived from gastric H cells, see Endotext chapter on Ghrelinoma ( 53 ). Duodenum A rare subtype of gastrointestinal NET, duodenal NET are often incidentally discovered during esophagogastroduodenoscopy ( Figure 1A ). They are characterized by intramural lesions which might sometimes only be visible on endoscopic ultrasound. Bleeding or ulceration is rare, but can be a presenting symptom ( 54 ). The majority of duodenal NET are localized and grade 1-2, particularly for tumors smaller than 1.0 cm. Metastatic potential increases with size and can be present at diagnosis or occur during follow-up
