Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


of duodenal NET are localized and grade 1-2, particularly for tumors smaller than 1.0 cm. Metastatic potential increases with size and can be present at diagnosis or occur during follow-up ( 55 , 56 ). Due to the nature of the neuroendocrine cells in the duodenum several hormonal syndromes can be encountered, such as gastrinoma or VIPoma. Somatostatin-expressing NET near the ampulla of Vater have been described as part of neurofibromatosis type 1 ( 57 ). Some of the larger duodenal NET cannot be effectively localized as originated from either duodenum or pancreas due to the overlapping anatomy. Figure 1. Endoscopy in gastrointestinal NET. (A) Endoscopic image of a 5 mm submucosal lesion in the duodenal bulb. Fine needle aspiration confirmed a grade 1 duodenal NET, which was subsequently removed by endoscopic mucosal resection. (B) Endoscopic view of an 8 mm rectal NET, grade 1, which was successfully resected by endoscopic submucosal dissection. Small Intestinal (Jejunum and Ileum) The classic site for well-differentiated NET in the gastrointestinal tract is the small intestine, particularly the terminal ileum. NET are the most common malignancy in the small intestine, followed in incidence by adenocarcinoma and lymphoma ( 58 ). Almost all small intestinal NET are low to intermediate grade and can potentially show indolent growth ( 59 ). NEC of the small intestine are extremely rare. As EC cells are the predominant neuroendocrine cell in the small intestine, metastatic small intestinal NET are most often associated with the carcinoid syndrome ( 60 ). At presentation, the majority of small intestinal NET are metastasized, with a predilection for lymph node and liver metastases ( 59 ). In some cases, the primary tumor cannot be visualized despite modern imaging techniques, such as PET/CT. Lymphogenic spread of small intestinal NET occurs locally within the mesentery. The finding of NET accompanied by a mesenteric mass hints towards a small bowel origin of the NET. Unique to small intestinal NET, mesenteric metastases can develop extensive fibrosis ( Figure 2 ). This is seen on cross-sectional imaging as fibrotic strand radiating from a solid mesenteric mass, in a spoke-wheel pattern ( 61 ). This pathognomonic feature of small intestinal NET can lead to chronic bowel ischemia due to compression of venous drainage, leading to intermittent abdominal cramps or colicky pain, particularly after a large meal. Ultimately, ileus or bowel perforation can occur. In one study of 530 patients with
