Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


of venous drainage, leading to intermittent abdominal cramps or colicky pain, particularly after a large meal. Ultimately, ileus or bowel perforation can occur. In one study of 530 patients with small intestinal NET, mesenteric fibrosis was found to be progressive in 13.5% of cases with a median time to growth of 40 months, signifying slow progression ( 62 ). Although mesenteric fibrosis can lead to fatal complications and is associated with overall survival in univariate analysis, it was not associated with a worse overall survival in multivariate analysis ( 63 ). Figure 2. Mesenteric fibrosis in midgut NET. (A) Transversal and (B) coronal plane contrast-enhanced CT images of a patient with a cecal NET and a mesenteric metastasis (arrow). A desmoplastic reaction consisting of fibrotic strands can be seen radiating from the mesenteric tumor mass, which can compromise venous blood flow from the bowel. The mass is partly calcified. Hepatic metastases of small intestinal NET can be much larger than the primary tumor or lymph nodes. Even in the presence of extensive bilobar metastases, the function of the liver is often preserved, although isolated hyperammonemia due to shunting has been described in selected cases ( 64 ). Appendix In the majority of cases, appendix NET are incidentally encountered during appendectomy because of appendicitis. A contributory role of the potentially obstructive tumor has been attributed to the occurrence of appendicitis, but this has not been proven to date. Because of its association with appendicitis, appendix NET have a peak incidence in adolescents and young adults ( 65 ). Most appendix NET cases are confined to the appendix and have a favorable proliferation index (grade 1 or low 2). Development of lymph node metastases can be seen in up to 25% of appendix NET patients, whereas distant metastases are rare ( 66 ). Contrary to origin NET within the midgut, carcinoid syndrome is rarely encountered in appendix NET patients, potentially due to other cell of origin and limited metastatic spread and tumor bulk. Colon NET arising in the caecum and ascending colon generally show a biological behavior that is similar to that of small intestinal NET. Together these are termed midgut NET due to their common embryological origin and vascularization by the superior mesenteric artery and vein. Consequently, cecal and ascending colonic NET are often low-grade tumors, can be associated with carcinoid syndrome when metastasized beyond the portal circulation, and give rise
