Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


superior mesenteric artery and vein. Consequently, cecal and ascending colonic NET are often low-grade tumors, can be associated with carcinoid syndrome when metastasized beyond the portal circulation, and give rise to fibrotic complications ( 67 ). Contrarily, NEN in the transverse and descending colon are more aggressive with a predilection for the occurrence of NEC. These NEC share common features with adenocarcinomas of the colon, like molecular background ( 11 ). Hormonal syndromes are seldomly encountered in these colon NEC. Rectum Unlike the distal colon, NEN in the rectum show a preference for well-differentiated NET ( 68 ). Most rectal NET are incidentally discovered during colonoscopy ( Figure 1B ). A rise in rectal NET incidence rates has been detected that coincided with the increased use of diagnostic colonoscopy ( 69 ). At the time of detection, tumor size is often small (< 1 cm) signifying indolent behavior and small risk of metastatic spread ( 70 ). However, a subset of rectal NET can present in locally advanced stages and be associated with metastatic spread. Although their venous drainage is not connected to the portal vein, rectal NET are rarely associated with hormonal syndromes, presumably due to their neuroendocrine cell type of origin. DIAGNOSIS Histopathology Obtaining histology for evaluation and confirmation of diagnosis remains essential in the work-up of a gastrointestinal NEN, even in the setting of modern imaging techniques and circulating biomarkers. The diagnosis of a NEN can be suggested through histological findings on H&E staining, such as an organoid pattern, absence of necrosis, low nucleus to cytoplasm ratio, and salt and pepper chromatin. Ultimately, the histological diagnosis requires positive immunohistochemical staining of neuroendocrine markers ( 71 ). Most commonly used neuroendocrine markers include synaptophysin and chromogranin A, although N-CAM (CD56) has also been advocated as such in the past. Staining with either synaptophysin or chromogranin A should be positive, with the former having a higher positivity rate in gastrointestinal NEN ( 72 ). Expert pathological examination is advised in uncertain cases, for instance in neoplasms with overlap with other malignancies, such as carcinomas with neuroendocrine differentiation, amphicrine carcinoma and MiNEN ( 25 , 73 ). Besides for confirming the diagnosis, histopathological evaluation is required for tumor grading according to the WHO classification. First, the distinction between a poorly differentiated NEC and a well-differentiated NET is crucial as shown above. This distinction is made on the basis of cellular
