Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


to the WHO classification. First, the distinction between a poorly differentiated NEC and a well-differentiated NET is crucial as shown above. This distinction is made on the basis of cellular morphology ( 74 ). Second, each pathological evaluation of a NET specimen should include grading through evaluation of differentiation, ki67 (MIB1) proliferation index and mitotic index ( Table 2 ). Importantly, tumor grade can be heterogenous within or between tumor lesions as well as change over time ( 75 , 76 ). The disease course over many years in patients can be accompanied by an increase in proliferation indices and grade over time, providing rationale for repeat biopsies in selected patients with disease progression. Altogether, grading provides key information for clinical decision making across all stages and primary locations of gastrointestinal NET. The subclass of grade 3 well-differentiated gastrointestinal NET was only introduced as recent as 2019 ( 2 ), which limits the clinical studies and experience on the management of this rare subtype. Immunohistochemical analysis can also helpful in cases of an unknown primary tumor. Although the prevalence of an unknown primary tumor has decreased due to contemporary PET imaging, up to 5% of NET can present with an unknown primary ( 77 ). Positive staining for the following immunohistochemical marker is specific for different primary origins of NET: TTF-1 for foregut tumor, ISL-1 or PAX8 for pancreatic tumor, CDX-2 for midgut tumor, and SATB2 for hindgut tumor ( 78 - 81 ). Biochemistry – General Historically, elevated levels of biochemical markers have been directly linked to the diagnosis of a NET. While this can be true for certain hormones eliciting clinical syndromes when taken under controlled conditions, the vast majority of NET cannot be diagnosed through the use of a circulating biomarker. At most, a biomarker can be used during follow-up when it is elevated in a particular patient as a marker of disease recurrence or activity ( 27 , 82 ). Chromogranin A (CgA) has been extensively studied since the 1990s as a diagnostic and prognostic biomarker for gastrointestinal and other NET. This acid glycoprotein is stored within the secretory vesicles of neuroendocrine cells and co-secreted with the hormones upon stimulation. In a meta-analysis of 13 studies including 1260 patients with a NET sensitivity of CgA was 73%. In healthy controls, CgA levels were elevated in less than 5%, securing an excellent specificity. However, when compared to
