Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


including 1260 patients with a NET sensitivity of CgA was 73%. In healthy controls, CgA levels were elevated in less than 5%, securing an excellent specificity. However, when compared to subjects with other gastrointestinal, renal, or oncological disease the specificity can drop to ranges of 50-60% ( 83 ), making CgA a poor diagnostic marker in patients presenting with abdominal complaints or a tumor. Measurement of CgA for this indication has led to many unnecessary clinical investigations, e.g., endoscopy, cross-sectional and functional imaging, into the cause of an elevated CgA ( 84 ) and should be discouraged. Circulating CgA levels are associated with tumor bulk and consequently are correlated to a worse prognostic outcome ( 85 ). Because of its link to tumor bulk, CgA can be used during follow-up to track disease activity, although it should never replace imaging due to insufficient sensitivity and specificity of detecting progressive disease. Neuron-specific enolase (NSE) represents another circulating marker on neuroendocrine cells. Mostly studied in small cell lung cancer, NSE is also elevated in a subset of gastrointestinal NET patients. Its sensitivity and specificity for the diagnosis of NET is approximately 40% and 60%, respectively ( 85 , 86 ), and thereby inferior to that of CgA. Importantly, NSE levels tend to be more increased in aggressive disease. Consequently, a sudden rise in NSE could herald the occurrence of dedifferentiation in a NET. Other circulating neuroendocrine markers, like pancreatic polypeptide and neurokinin A, have been used as diagnostic biomarkers in the past, but due to their overall lack of sensitivity or specificity their use in clinical practice has disappeared ( 27 ). Because of the inferior diagnostic characteristics of the peptides described above an mRNA transcript-based marker called the NETest was developed. Through multiplex PCR and a machine learning-based algorithm, the NETest provides a number on a 100-point scale, where an outcome above 20 has been used for optimal diagnostic cut-off ( 87 ). In a meta-analysis of 6 studies the sensitivity and specificity of the NETest was 89-94% and 95-98%, respectively ( 88 ). An independent study employing serial sampling in 132 patients with gastroenteropancreatic NET showed a high rate of fluctuation in the NETest despite stable disease during follow-up ( 89 ). This technique is of interest to the field, but as of yet there are restrictions regarding the availability in clinical practice, costs, and reimbursement. Hopefully, these developments will
