Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


89 ). This technique is of interest to the field, but as of yet there are restrictions regarding the availability in clinical practice, costs, and reimbursement. Hopefully, these developments will lead the way towards more superior multianalyte diagnostic biomarkers for gastrointestinal NET in the future. Biochemistry – Specific When patients present with features compatible with a NET-associated functioning syndrome dedicated analysis should be performed. The reader is referred to other Chapters in Endotext for hormonal analysis of Gastrinoma ( 16 ), Insulinoma ( 90 ), VIPoma ( 37 ), Glucagonoma ( 91 ), Somatostatinoma ( 38 ), Ghrelinoma ( 53 ), and Paraneoplastic Syndromes ( 39 ). The latter included the hormonal work-up of NET-associated hypercalcemia, hyponatremia, Cushing’s syndrome, acromegaly and hypoglycemia. Although the majority of gastrointestinal NET are not accompanied by a hormonal syndrome, the carcinoid syndrome is the most common hormonal complication. Because patients can be asymptomatic but still at risk for complications such as carcinoid crisis or CHD, all patients with advanced gastrointestinal NET should undergo biochemical evaluation for the carcinoid syndrome at baseline and when clinical suspicion arises during follow-up ( 29 ). Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) is the main but not exclusive culprit in the carcinoid syndrome. Upon secretion it is mainly stored in platelets, but a proportion freely circulates in the blood. It is metabolized by hepatocytes to 5-hydroxyindolaceticacid (5-HIAA), which is more stable than serotonin and excreted in the urine. 24-hour urine 5-HIAA levels are the best-established biomarker for the carcinoid syndrome, with 50 µmol/24h used as the optimal diagnostic cut-off ( 29 , 92 ). Urinary 5-HIAA levels correlate with tumor bulk and multiple studies have described an association in univariate analyses with survival in CS patients, which did not persist in multivariate analyses ( 93 - 95 ). 5-HIAA level associate with the risk of developing CHD, with levels above 300 µmol/24h conferring a 2.7-fold increased risk of the development of CHD ( 36 ). Alternatively, 5-HIAA can be measured in plasma or serum, resulting in a slightly lower sensitivity/specificity compared to 24h urine collection ( 96 , 97 ). Venous sampling saves on the cumbersome collection of 24h urine, but its availability is currently limited. Similarly, platelet serotonin levels are associated with carcinoid syndrome, but few labs can perform the assay ( 98 ). Although several other peptides, including neurokinin A, bradykinin, and histamine, have been associated with the occurrence of carcinoid
