Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


carcinoid syndrome, but few labs can perform the assay ( 98 ). Although several other peptides, including neurokinin A, bradykinin, and histamine, have been associated with the occurrence of carcinoid syndrome, these markers have no utility in the diagnostic workup in clinical practice. NT-proBNP is u useful biomarker to screen for the presence of CHD in patients with established carcinoid syndrome ( 99 ). An NT-proBNP level below 260 ng/mL (31 pmol/L) has a negative predictive value of 97%, thereby effectively ruling out the presence of CHD ( 100 ). Patients with NT-proBNP levels above 260 mg/mL should be referred for echocardiography to confirm or exclude the presence of CHD. Cross-Sectional Imaging Despite the developments in biochemistry and functional imaging, cross-sectional imaging remains the cornerstone of follow-up of NET. Furthermore, as more NET are incidentally discovered on imaging, it is important to be aware of typical or even pathognomonic radiological features of NET. On contrast-enhanced computer tomography (CT) scan gastrointestinal NET typically present as hypervascular lesions in the bowel wall ( 101 ). The majority of NET have enhanced intravenous contrast uptake in arterial phase, making it relevant to include an early arterial scan phase next to a venous or portal phase in case of a suspicion of a NET ( 102 ). Primary NET lesions in the small intestine tend to be small and can easily be missed, whereas lymph node or distant metastases can be extensive. Fibrosis can occur in mesenteric NET metastases, leading to pathognomonic fibrotic strands radiating from the mesenteric mass ( 61 ) ( Figure 2 ). Gastrointestinal NET predominantly metastasize to the liver, where single, multiple or extensive metastases can be found. Again, these are hypervascular and enhancing on arterial phase in the majority of cases ( 103 ) ( Figure 3 ). Figure 3. Cross-sectional imaging in gastrointestinal NET. Due to their hypervascular nature, NET primary lesions and metastases can be enhancing in early arterial phase. In case (A) diffuse hypervascular liver metastases of a small intestinal NET are visible. Not all NET (metastases) are hypervascular, as shown in case (B) with a single non-enhancing liver metastasis of small intestinal NET during arterial phase (arrow). The added value of including an early arterial phase after contrast injection (C) op top of venous phase imaging (D) is illustrated within a patient with a small intestinal NET, where visibility of a segment 3 NET metastasis
