Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


phase after contrast injection (C) op top of venous phase imaging (D) is illustrated within a patient with a small intestinal NET, where visibility of a segment 3 NET metastasis is improved during arterial scan. MRI, particularly diffusion weighted imaging (DWI), can improve the detection rate of small liver NET metastases (E). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is superior to CT with regard to liver and bone metastases, particularly with contrast enhancement and diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) ( 104 , 105 ) ( Figure 3 ). For small liver neuroendocrine metastases, MRI even has a higher lesion-based sensitivity than contemporary SSTR-based PET imaging (see below) ( 106 ). In rectal NET, MRI is also helpful to stage local growth and lymph node metastases ( 107 ). MRI has caveats in the detection of the primary tumor of the bowel, mesenteric, or peritoneal metastases. Endoscopy Endoscopy is often the modality used leading to the incidental detection of a gastrointestinal NET, particularly within primary locations in the stomach or rectum ( Figure 1 ). Primary tumors of gastroduodenal or rectal origin can also be missed on cross-sectional imaging, providing rationale for performing endoscopy or endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) to stage locoregional disease ( 67 , 108 ). The added value of endoscopy in advanced disease is generally of limited value, unless the aim is to obtain histology. Alternatively, obtaining histology from metastases could be more informative as these can have a higher grade than the primary tumor and ultimately determine the patient prognosis ( 76 ). Nuclear Imaging Over 90% of well-differentiated NET express somatostatin receptors, which can be used for functional imaging. Somatostatin is a hormone, whose physiological actions are to inhibit hormonal production and release from neuroendocrine cells, for instance in the pituitary, pancreas, and intestine ( 109 ). It binds to one or more of five somatostatin receptor subtypes expressed on the cell membrane. Radiolabeled somatostatin analogues (SSA) were developed in the 1980s to image gastrointestinal and pancreatic NET. First, Octreoscan® with gamma-emitter 111 In-pentreotide was shown superior to cross-sectional imaging in NET using planar and SPECT imaging ( 110 ). In the recent ten years, 68 Gallium-labeled SSA ( 68 Ga-DOTATATE, 68 Ga-DOTATOC, 68 Ga-DOTANOC) suitable for PET imaging have replaced 111 In-pentreotide as the preferred imaging modality. Importantly, 68 Ga-DOTA-SSA PET changes clinical management in 40-50% of cases, according to two meta-analyses ( 111 , 112 ), and as such
