Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


111 In-pentreotide as the preferred imaging modality. Importantly, 68 Ga-DOTA-SSA PET changes clinical management in 40-50% of cases, according to two meta-analyses ( 111 , 112 ), and as such constitutes a key diagnostic modality in the NET armamentarium ( Figure 4 ). The PET can be combined with diagnostic, contrast-enhanced CT (PET/CT) or MRI (PET/MRI) for hybrid imaging. Pitfalls include PET-positive granulomatous disease, meningioma, renal cell cancer, and lymphoma. Expression of the somatostatin receptors decreases with increasing proliferative capacity in NET, making it very useful in low-to-intermediate grade NET but less sensitive in higher grade NET or NEC. Recently, 64 Cu-DOTA-SSA PET/CT and 18 F-AIF-NOTA-SSA have been introduced with similar or slighter superior diagnostic capability compared to 68 Ga-DOTA-SSA PET ( 113 , 114 ). Alternatively, 18 F-DOPA PET has been advocated by several centers as superior to 68 Ga-DOTA-SSA PET, particularly for midgut NET ( 115 ). Although this may vary between patients and mostly pertain to tumor count rather than to change in management, 68 Ga-DOTA SSA also has therapeutic consequences for theranostics using unlabeled (‘cold’) SSA and peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT) with radiolabeled (‘hot’) SSA (see below). Figure 4. 68Ga-DOTA-SSA PET imaging. 68Ga-DOTA-SSA PET staging is superior to anatomical imaging and 111In-pentreotide SPECT (Octreoscan). In this case of a patient with stage IV small intestinal NET, PET imaging detected more lesions than Octreoscan, scanned within 3-month timeframe without anatomical progression. In the same patient, multiple liver metastases are detected on hybrid PET/CT imaging (arrow), which were not visible on contrast-enhanced CT (CECT). Similar to other malignancies, a subset of NET metabolize increased amounts of glucose, which makes them amenable to imaging with 18 F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET. Uptake of 18 F-FDG PET in NET increases with aggressiveness, making it the preferred imaging modality in NEC and higher-grade NET ( 116 , 117 ). Positive FDG uptake of NET is associated with growth potential and consequently several studies have established that FGD uptake constitutes a prognostic marker for a worse survival outcome ( 118 ). MANAGEMENT Surgery Radical resection remains the cornerstone in the management of locoregional stages of gastrointestinal NET. Metastatic spread is dependent on the location and size of the primary tumor and adequate staging should be performed accordingly, preferably through hybrid cross-sectional and 68 Ga-DOTA-SSA PET imaging ( 102 ). If the disease is confined to the local tumor (stage I-II) or locoregional lymph
