Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


should be performed accordingly, preferably through hybrid cross-sectional and 68 Ga-DOTA-SSA PET imaging ( 102 ). If the disease is confined to the local tumor (stage I-II) or locoregional lymph nodes (stage III), the option of a surgical oncological resection should be evaluated. If the NET can be radically resected the outcome is very favorable with 10-years survival outcomes of >90% for all primary sites. A large registry series from Canada did find that recurrence rates can increase up to 60% for small intestinal NET and 40-50% for other NET in a 15-year postoperative period ( 119 ). Given the retrospective nature of this series and contemporary preoperative imaging it remains uncertain whether recurrence rates of current therapeutic interventions are still this high. For stage I gastroduodenal NET, metastatic spread is limited and endoscopic resection of the NET can be considered ( 108 ). This pertains to gastric type I and type II NET up to 2 cm without muscle invasion and duodenal NET localized at safe distance from the Vater’s ampulla. Similarly, an endoscopic resection can be performed in stage I rectal NET, as the risk of lymph node metastases is limited to less than 3% ( 67 ). Resection from both tumor subtypes should be performed by endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR), endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD), or endoscopic full thickness resection (eFTR) rather than snare polypectomy due to the submucosal growth pattern of NET. Successful removal of type I gastric NET or stage I rectal NET is are high (>85%) with slight superiority of ESD over EMR, while eFTR might approach 100% radical resection rates ( 120 - 122 ). In cases of an inadequate endoscopic resection further imaging should be performed and a step-up endoscopic approach or surgical resection should be considered. Patients with oligometastatic disease might also benefit from an upfront surgical approach. As the liver is the predominant site for metastatic disease, concomitant surgical resection and/or interventional tumor ablation should be considered in patients with limited liver involvement ( 123 ). This can potentially cure the patient, but it should be noted that modern imaging techniques detect approximately one-third of liver metastases compared to histological evaluation ( 124 , 125 ). The presence of micrometastases should be factored into the management process. Despite this, long-term outcomes can be excellent in cases of upfront surgery in oligometastatic disease. A potential advantage of tumor debulking in this setting
