Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


be factored into the management process. Despite this, long-term outcomes can be excellent in cases of upfront surgery in oligometastatic disease. A potential advantage of tumor debulking in this setting could be the delay of the need to start systemic therapy. Several series have also described survival benefits of extensive liver metastases resection ( 126 - 129 ), but these concern mostly retrospective series, which might introduce selection bias, and data was often collected before the advent of currently available molecular therapies. Resection of the primary tumor in the context of stage IV or metastatic disease is controversial. Whereas retrospective studies have supported a survival benefit in patients whose primary tumor was resected compared to those that were not operated ( 130 - 132 ), this was later refuted in other series or after propensity score-matched controls ( 63 , 133 ). Importantly, the disease course locoregionally can be indolent, and in one series only 13% of mesenteric masses showing significant progression after a median follow-up time of 40 months ( 62 ). Patients with advanced midgut NET and recurrent complaints from the primary tumor or (fibrotic) mesenteric mass should undergo operation to explore the possibility of a palliative resection or alternatively, an intestinal bypass. Palliative Management Patients with unresectable or advanced gastrointestinal NET are in a palliative setting and the different treatment modalities should be weighed in terms of efficacy and toxicity. Given the wide range of gastrointestinal NET subtypes, the treatment chosen should align with the biological behavior of the tumor as well as the characteristics of the individual patient ( Figure 5 ). Factors to consider in the management of gastrointestinal NET include: tumor grade, growth rate and location(s), symptoms, presence of a hormonal syndrome, performance score, comorbidities, previous therapies, availability of treatments and patient preference. Figure 5. Stage IV gastrointestinal NET. There is a wide heterogeneity in clinical presentation of gastrointestinal NET in advanced or metastatic setting. On these maximal intensity projections of 68Ga-DOTATATE PET, there are 8 different clinical scenarios of stage IV gastrointestinal NET. Despite the similar disease stage, all these patients deserve personalized management of their disease according to several patient- and tumor-specific factors. For optimal management, choice of treatment should be discussed in an experienced multidisciplinary setting. Active Surveillance One potential option to consider is to perform active surveillance in asymptomatic patients with advanced, grade I or low-grade II NET with limited
