Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


in an experienced multidisciplinary setting. Active Surveillance One potential option to consider is to perform active surveillance in asymptomatic patients with advanced, grade I or low-grade II NET with limited tumor bulk. Evidence for this strategy can be found in placebo-controlled trials. First, the median time to progression in placebo-treated patients was 6 months in the phase III randomized PROMID trial in midgut NET patients ( 134 ). Second, in the phase III randomized CLARINET trial in patients with nonfunctioning GEP NET, patients randomized to placebo had a median progression-free survival (PFS) of 18 months ( 135 ). Consequently, not all tumors show clear growth potential over time and selected patients can thus safely refrain from costly and potentially toxic medication. This strategy should not be adopted in patients with symptomatic, functioning, high-grade, quickly progressive, or high tumor volume disease. Follow-up cross-sectional imaging every 3-6 months is advised for gastrointestinal NET patients undergoing active surveillance. Somatostatin Analogs Before their role in imaging, SSA were developed for their potential antihormonal effects. The SSA octreotide was found to effectively reduce serotonin production in patients with carcinoid syndrome and other NEN-associated functioning syndromes ( 136 ). Following its long-term application in functioning NET, antitumoral efficacy was tested in the PROMID and CLARINET trials. The German multicenter PROMID study randomized 85 midgut NET patients to 4-weekly 30 mg octreotide long-acting release (LAR) injections or placebo injections ( 134 ). These patients were in the beginning of their disease course with a median time from diagnosis of 4 months and had on average limited liver tumor load and grade I. In an intention to treated (ITT) analysis median time to progression was 14.3 months in octreotide LAR-treated patients versus 6.0 months in the placebo group (P=0.000072). Overall survival (OS) was not different between the groups. The effect of SSA is predominantly stabilization of disease as only one patient in both treatment groups experienced a partial response. Overall, octreotide LAR treatment was well tolerated, although diarrhea, flatulence, and bile stones were more frequently observed in the SSA-treated group. The international multicenter CLARINET trial randomized 204 patients with advanced nonfunctioning GEP NET to 4-weekly injections of 120 mg lanreotide autogel or placebo injections ( 135 ). Tumors were grade I and II with ki-67 index up to 10% and mostly from pancreas or midgut origin. Over 80% of patients had not received previous antitumoral treatment and tumor
