Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


were grade I and II with ki-67 index up to 10% and mostly from pancreas or midgut origin. Over 80% of patients had not received previous antitumoral treatment and tumor progression before randomization was only shown in 4-5% of patients. ITT analysis revealed that PFS was significantly longer in lanreotide-treated patients compared to placebo (median not reached versus 18.0 months, P<0.001). The benefit of lanreotide persisted in most predefined subgroups across primary origin, tumor grade, and liver involvement. Safety of lanreotide was good, with known side effects of gastrointestinal complaints, exocrine pancreas insufficiency, and hyperglycemia. Interestingly, the open label extension study of the CLARINET showed a median PFS of 33 months in those continuing lanreotide, while patients in the placebo group – with a median PFS of 14 months - who crossed over to lanreotide after progression had a median second PFS of 18 months ( 137 ). This again supports the possibility of considering active surveillance in a subset of patients with indolent disease. Overall survival (OS) in the core CLARINET study was not significantly different between treatment groups, but was also biased by crossover from placebo to lanreotide. Together these landmark trials have positioned SSA as first-line antiproliferative treatment for well-differentiated gastrointestinal NET, particularly in patients without signs of high tumor volume or aggressive disease course. Injections with octreotide LAR or lanreotide are every 4 weeks in the gluteal area intramuscularly or deep subcutaneously, respectively. Overall tolerability is excellent, although patients should be counselled on the potential gastrointestinal adverse effects, e.g., diarrhea, flatulence, nausea, stool discoloration, after the first administration, which tend to dissipate after repeated injections. Long-term concerns include hyperglycemia and bile stones. Although preventive cholecystectomy has been advocated in the past, this practice has been abandoned in most expert centers ( 138 ). Several retrospective series and clinical experience supported the use of SSA dose escalation in patients with mild progressive disease ( 139 ). These studies suggest that increasing the injected dose or injection frequency might be accompanied by improved antiproliferative control. First prospective evidence of this effect came from the NETTER-1 study designed to investigate the effect of peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT) with 177 Lutetium-DOTA-octreotate ( 177 Lu-DOTATATE) ( 140 ). Patients enrolled in this study had advanced, progressive midgut NET on regular dose of SSA and were randomized between PRRT and an escalated dose of 60 mg of octreotide LAR every four
