Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


in this study had advanced, progressive midgut NET on regular dose of SSA and were randomized between PRRT and an escalated dose of 60 mg of octreotide LAR every four weeks. Patients in the high-dose SSA control group had a medium PFS of 8.4 months, supporting some antiproliferative effect of SSA dose escalation after disease progression on a regular dose of SSA. The CLARINET forte single-arm, phase II trial was designed to study the efficacy of lanreotide dose escalation in midgut and pancreatic NET patients with disease progression on standard lanreotide dose in the previous 2 years ( 141 ). In the midgut NET cohort, 51 patients were included with grade 1-2 disease and 57% of patients had – generally limited - hepatic metastases. After dose escalation to lanreotide 120 mg every 2 weeks median PFS in this cohort was 8.3 months, while disease control rate (partial response or stable disease as best outcome) was 73%. Importantly, no deterioration of quality of life and no additional treatment-related safety concerns were observed in patients treated with high-dose lanreotide. SSA treatment should be given lifelong in patients with carcinoid syndrome and other SSA-responsive functioning syndromes for which these drugs are registered and approved ( 29 , 142 ). This includes continuation of treatment after radiological or clinical progression and initiation of a second-line of treatment. Whether SSA should be continued in nonfunctioning gastrointestinal NET disease is a matter of controversy and no prospective data is available to guide this. Intriguingly, 50% of panelists in the NANETS guideline supported continuing SSA treatment, while 50% supported stopping treatment upon progression ( 143 ). The pan-somatostatin receptor agonist pasireotide has been investigated in NET based on the hypothesis that targeting more somatostatin receptor subtypes might have an additive antiproliferative effect compared to octreotide and lanreotide, which predominantly target the somatostatin receptor subtype 2 ( 144 ). However, early phase clinical trials provided insufficient grounds to pursue further clinical development of this drug in NET ( 145 , 146 ). Peptide Receptor Radionuclide Therapy Similar to the diagnostics and therapeutics of thyroid disease with radioactive iodine, the discovery of molecular somatostatin receptor imaging also heralded the advent of targeted somatostatin receptor-based radionuclide therapy. Following initial developments with 111 In-pentreotide and 90 Yttrium-DOTATATE, the short-range beta-emitter 177 Lutetium coupled to DOTATATE ( 177 Lu-DOTATATE) was introduced in 2000 ( 147 ). This technique of targeting the somatostatin
