Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


with 111 In-pentreotide and 90 Yttrium-DOTATATE, the short-range beta-emitter 177 Lutetium coupled to DOTATATE ( 177 Lu-DOTATATE) was introduced in 2000 ( 147 ). This technique of targeting the somatostatin receptor on tumor cells with internal radiation was termed PRRT. Individual phase II trials at several centers showed promising antitumoral effects on somatostatin receptor-positive NET, including gastrointestinal subtypes ( 148 ). The multinational phase III randomized NETTER-1 trial established PRRT with 4 cycles of 177 Lu-DOTATATE as an effective therapy for advanced, somatostatin receptor-positive midgut NET ( 140 ). In this trial, 229 patients were randomized between PRRT, including 30 mg octreotide LAR between cycles and 4-weekly after the fourth cycle, and 60 mg octreotide LAR every four weeks. Patients had a grade 1-2 midgut NET that was progressive on SSA before enrollment. The median PFS in the PRRT group was not reached compared to 8.4 months in the high-dose SSA group. Benefit in PFS prolongation was evident across all pre-specified subgroups. Risk of progression or death was 79% and decreased in the patients treated with PRRT. The study confirmed known side effects of 177 Lu-DOTATATE, including nausea, fatigue, abdominal pain, and diarrhea. Two percent of patients experienced grade 3 or higher thrombocytopenia, while 2 patients (1.8%) developed myelodysplastic syndrome following PRRT. In a meta-analysis of 28 studies comprising 7334 patients treated with 90 Y-DOTATOC or 177 Lu-DOTATATE, the combined incidence of myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia after PRRT was 2.6% ( 149 ). Final analysis of the NETTER-1 study revealed that the median OS in the PRRT group was 48.0 months compared to 36.3 months in the high-dose SSA group, which was not significantly different ( 150 ). Crossover of 37% of the patients randomized to high-dose SSA, long-term survival with multiple other treatment lines and insufficient statistical power could have contributed to the failure of reaching this secondary endpoint. Another key secondary endpoint was reached: time to deterioration of quality of life was significantly longer in patients treated with PRRT compared to those treated with high-dose SSA ( 151 ). Although the NETTER-1 only included midgut NET patients, the phase II Erasmus MC Rotterdam data were used to obtain regulatory approval of 177 Lu-DOTATATE for all gastrointestinal (and pancreatic) NET subtypes ( 152 ). Importantly, PRRT also induced tumor response in 18% of midgut NET patients in the NETTER-1 study and 39% of various NET patients in
