Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


(and pancreatic) NET subtypes ( 152 ). Importantly, PRRT also induced tumor response in 18% of midgut NET patients in the NETTER-1 study and 39% of various NET patients in the Rotterdam study, which makes it a potential cytoreductive therapy. Standard protocol of PRRT included four infusions of 7.4 GBq 177 Lu-DOTATATE spaced 8 (range 6-12) weeks apart. PRRT should preferably be administered in the absence of long-acting SSA (4-6 weeks) or short-acting SSA (24 hours) due to competition at the receptor level. An amino acid solution of 2.5% lysine and arginine is co-infused with 177 Lu-DOTATATE in order to saturate the renal reuptake of radioactive peptide and prevent radiation-induced nephrotoxicity. This limits the incidence of severe renal insufficiency after PRRT to less than 1% ( 152 ). Special considerations should be applied to patients with pre-existing cytopenia or clonal hematopoiesis, impaired renal function or hydronephrosis, massive liver tumor bulk, mesenteric fibrosis, or nervous system involvement ( 153 ). Patients with a severe functioning syndrome are at risk of an exacerbation of symptoms or hormonal crisis following temporary SSA withdrawal or tumor lysis with PRRT. Although the risk is minor at 1% incidence in retrospective series and limited to patients with severe hormonal hypersecretion ( 154 , 155 ), adequate management through supportive measures and swift re-introduction of SSA should be employed to prevent a hormonal crisis. There is a possibility for salvage PRRT when progressive disease (re-)occurs after a period of disease control following 4 cycles of PRRT. Several retrospective series have described renewed disease control or even response after additional cycles with 177 Lu-DOTATATE after progression. In the largest series to date of 181 patients with gastrointestinal, pancreatic, bronchopulmonary, or unknown origin NET, salvage PRRT with two cycles was administered if disease progression occurred after a period of at least 18 months after the first cycle of the initial PRRT ( 156 ). The median PFS after salvage PRRT was 14.6 months and thereby approximately 50% of the initial PRRT, while disease control was observed in 75% of patients. Salvage PRRT was not associated with increased rates of myelotoxicity or nephrotoxicity. In patients that respond favorably to salvage PRRT, future cycles can be considered when progressive disease once again arises, although clinical outcome data of additional treatments are scarce. Targeted Therapy The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) protein is a central proliferative factor in many cancer cells. Inhibition
