Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


again arises, although clinical outcome data of additional treatments are scarce. Targeted Therapy The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) protein is a central proliferative factor in many cancer cells. Inhibition of the mTOR pathway has been investigated for several malignancies, including NEN. The RADIANT-2 multicenter phase III trial investigated whether the oral mTOR inhibitor everolimus had efficacy in patients with advanced NET and carcinoid syndrome ( 157 ). In total, 429 patients with progressive and advanced grade 1-2 disease were randomized between everolimus 10 mg q.d. plus octreotide LAR 30 mg every 4 weeks or placebo plus octreotide 30 mg every 4 weeks. Primary sites included among others small intestine (52%), lung (10%), colon (6%), and pancreas (6%). Baseline characteristics between the groups were not well balanced with regard to WHO performance status, primary sites, and prior use of chemotherapy. The median PFS was 16.4 months in the everolimus combination group compared to 11.3 months in the placebo combination group (p=0.026). This analysis encompassing central review of radiological images did not reach the pre-specified cut-off for superiority. Median OS was 35.2 months in the placebo-octreotide LAR group compared to 29.2 months in the everolimus-octreotide LAR group, which was not a statistically significant difference, but more deaths related to respiratory or cardiac disease were observed in the everolimus arm. In the RADIANT-4 phase III trial, patients with advanced, progressive, grade 1-2, nonfunctioning NET of gastrointestinal or lung origin were included ( 158 ). Here, 302 patients were randomized 2:1 to everolimus 10 mg q.d. or placebo. Approximately 60% of patients had a gastrointestinal NET, while 80% had liver metastases, generally with limited liver tumor bulk. Median PFS was longer in the everolimus-treated patients at 11.0 months versus 3.9 months in the placebo group. This difference was significant after central radiology review as well as after local review (P<0.00001). Despite a 36% reduction in the risk at death in the everolimus group, overall survival was not significantly improved. Partial response was obtained in 2% of patient treated with everolimus, while stable disease was observed in 81%. Given the outcomes of the RADIANT-2 and RADIANT-4 trials, everolimus appears to be better suited for nonfunctioning NET than functioning NET. Everolimus use is associated with a high rate of side effects, such as stomatitis, rash, diarrhea, fatigue, diabetes, infections, and non-infectious pneumonitis. Dose reductions or interruptions are necessary in up to two-thirds of NET patients
