Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


a high rate of side effects, such as stomatitis, rash, diarrhea, fatigue, diabetes, infections, and non-infectious pneumonitis. Dose reductions or interruptions are necessary in up to two-thirds of NET patients taking everolimus ( 158 ). No benefit in terms of quality of life has been proven for everolimus ( 159 ), with potentially a decrease in quality of life in patients with extrapancreatic NET ( 160 ). Multitarget tyrosine kinase inhibitors (MTKI) are another form of targeted therapy that can exert potent anti-cancer effects. Sunitinib is an oral multireceptor MTKI which has been investigated in panNET patients. In a phase II study, suninitib showed encouraging antitumoral activity in 61 pancreatic NET with partial response observed in 17% ( 161 ). While the median time to progression of 10.2 months in 41 patients with gastrointestinal and lung NET treated with sunitinib exceeded the 7.7 months observed in panNET patients, further development of sunitinib in gastrointestinal NET was not pursued due to the low response rate of 2.4%. A subsequent phase III trial in panNET patients showed that sunitinib improved PFS and OS in panNET patients ( 162 ), which led to registration of this drug for NET of pancreatic origin only. Another MTKI surufatinib was tested in two phase III studies in China in pancreatic and extrapancreatic NET, respectively ( 163 , 164 ). In the multicenter, randomized SANET-ep trial 198 patients with advanced, grade 1-2, progressive NET of gastrointestinal (47%), thoracic (24%), or other origins were randomized 2:1 to oral surufatinib 300 mg or placebo once daily ( 164 ). The median PFS after central review in the surufatinib group was 7.4 months compared to 3.9 months in the placebo group (P=0.037), which appeared to be independent of the subgroups studied. There was a large difference with the local radiology review, which tended to overexaggerate the effect of surufatinib on PFS. OS was not different between the groups at the time of the interim analysis. Partial response and stable disease were observed in 10 (8%) and 88 (70%) out of 126 patients, respectively, in the surufatinib arm. Relevant treatment-related side effects included hypertension, proteinuria, anemia and elevated liver enzymes. Quality of life did not improve in the surufatinib arm, while surufatinib-treated patients experienced more diarrhea than those in the placebo arm ( 165 ). Based on the SANET-ep study and its partner SANET-p study in panNET patients, surufatinib is registered
