Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


surufatinib-treated patients experienced more diarrhea than those in the placebo arm ( 165 ). Based on the SANET-ep study and its partner SANET-p study in panNET patients, surufatinib is registered in China for the treatment of nonpancreatic and pancreatic NET. Surufatinib is thus far not registered for these indications by the FDA or EMA. Several other MTKI have shown potential for antiproliferative activity in NET patients. These include pazopanib ( 166 ), lenvatinib ( 167 ), and axitinib ( 168 ). Further phase III data are necessary before these MTKI can be considered in gastrointestinal NET. Immunotherapy: Interferon-Alpha and Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors In the 1980s, the advent of interferon as a novel cancer drug was also investigated in NEN. Several uncontrolled series supported antiproliferative and antihormonal effects of interferon alpha in mostly small intestinal NET ( 169 , 170 ). The proinflammatory effects of interferon alpha however led to side effects of flu-like symptoms, myalgia, asthenia, auto-immune diseases, and diarrhea, limiting its tolerability in patients. Compared to SSA, interferon alpha had comparable antiproliferative effects ( 171 ). Long-acting interferon alpha appears to be better tolerated and was shown to produce antitumor effect in a single retrospective series in 17 patients ( 172 ). Immunotherapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors has revolutionized treatment of several malignancies, including melanoma and non-small cell lung cancer. However, infiltration of immune cells, like T-cells, is a rare occurrence in NET samples ( 173 - 175 ). In line with these preclinical findings, immune checkpoint inhibition in clinical (basket) trials have failed to show positive effects in well-differentiated NET ( 176 - 178 ). Chemotherapy In contrast to panNET there are no phase III clinical data to support the use of chemotherapy in gastrointestinal NET. Presumably in part through their well-differentiated nature, response rates to chemotherapy have been disappointing and further clinical development halted ( 179 ). Consequently, ENETS 2016 and NANETS 2017 guidelines do not support the use of chemotherapy in gastrointestinal NET ( 143 , 180 ). The EMSO 2021 guideline does advocate the use of either FOLFOX (5-fluorourical, oxaliplatin) or TEMCAP (temozolomide, capecitabine) in selected cases with high grade 2 gastrointestinal NET in third-line or higher setting, although this is not supported by prospective clinical data ( 181 ). Supportive Therapy Due to the primary tumor and metastasis locations as well as the sequalae of hormonal overproduction and therapeutic interventions, patients with gastrointestinal NET
