Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


clinical data ( 181 ). Supportive Therapy Due to the primary tumor and metastasis locations as well as the sequalae of hormonal overproduction and therapeutic interventions, patients with gastrointestinal NET can be in a poor clinical condition. Inadequate nutrient intake and uptake in these patients leads to increased incidence rates of weight loss, muscle atrophy, and decreased performance status ( 182 ). Consequently, all gastrointestinal NET patients should be screened on dietary intake and referred to dieticians if they are at risk of weight loss. High-protein, high-calorie supplements should be prescribed if regular dietary advice is insufficient to prevent weight loss. In cases of suspected reduced calorie uptake due to exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, often encountered during SSA treatment, or bile acid diarrhea, due to bowel resection, a trial of pancreatic enzyme supplements or bile acid sequestrants can be considered. In some cases, patients can be refractory to these interventions and escalation should be considered. This is particularly true for patients with extensive bowel resections leading to short bowel syndrome and those with severe desmoplastic reaction surrounding mesenteric metastases of small bowel NET. Food intake in the latter group might also be compromised by intermittent venous ischemic pain precipitated by meals. Tube feeding through nasogastric tube should be considered in selected cases. In case enteral feeding fails to improve the clinical situation, total parenteral nutrition can serve as a last resort for these refractory cases. Treatment with total parenteral nutrition up to 5 years has been successfully implemented in severe cases of NET ( 183 ). Besides nutritional support, physical therapy should also be offered to patients in order to improve their clinical performance status. Finally, given the impact of an incurable disease and its complaints psychosocial support should be discussed with patients and made accessible, if needed ( 184 ). MANAGEMENT OF CARCINOID SYNDROME Patient with gastrointestinal NET and the carcinoid syndrome require dedicated management of their hormonal symptoms. Quality of life in these patients is severely decreased, even when compared to patients with other – generally more aggressive – cancers ( 185 ). Prompt recognition of symptoms of flushing and diarrhea is key to specific management, while the complications of mesenteric fibrosis and CHD should also be screened and treated adequately ( 29 ). The cornerstone of the management of the carcinoid syndrome is SSA. Since the 1980s octreotide and later lanreotide have been shown to lead to biochemical
