Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


treated adequately ( 29 ). The cornerstone of the management of the carcinoid syndrome is SSA. Since the 1980s octreotide and later lanreotide have been shown to lead to biochemical and clinical responses in patients with the carcinoid syndrome. In a meta-analysis comprising 1945 interventions in 33 studies, SSA significantly decreased 5-HIAA excretion in 45-46% of patients, while flushing and diarrhea were decreased in 69-72% and 65%, respectively ( 186 ). Also given its favorable tolerability, all patients should be started on SSA soon after a confirmed diagnosis of carcinoid syndrome. Although patients with carcinoid syndrome in the majority of cases have widespread disease, the option of cytoreductive therapy by surgical resection or ablation or intra-arterial liver embolization can be considered in selected cases. If the vast majority of tumor bulk can be resected or embolized, this can lead to biochemical responses and clinical benefit for the patient ( 186 ). These options should be weighed also considering the level of serotonin overproduction, tumor growth rate, and efficacy of SSA. Importantly, SSA should be initiated before interventional therapy is commenced in order to reduce the risk of a carcinoid crisis ( 187 ). Patients with persistent symptoms despite label doses of SSA are designated as having refractory carcinoid syndrome. Several systemic options are available for treatment and these should be weighed on an individual basis guided by tumor bulk, rate of progression, severity of symptoms, and availability. Dose escalation of SSA can be attempted and leads to symptomatic improvement in 72-84% of patients ( 186 ). Alternatively, a randomized controlled trial has proven efficacy of the oral drug telotristat ethyl in controlling diarrhea in patients with refractory carcinoid syndrome ( 188 ). This serotonin synthesis inhibitor, dosed at 250 mg t.i.d., decreased bowel movements in approximately half of the cases and with a mean reduction of 0.8 bowel movements per day, whilst having no significant effect on flushing. A drug trial of three months is generally advised with stopping of telotristat ethyl if no benefit has been obtained after this time. Clinical symptoms improved in patients treated with PRRT in the NETTER-1 trial ( 140 ), although no sub-analysis was performed for carcinoid syndrome patients. In a retrospective series of 24 patients with stable disease or severe, refractory carcinoid syndrome, PRRT with four cycles of 177 Lu-DOTATATE effectively reduced flushes and diarrhea in 67% and 47% of patients, respectively (
