Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors and the Carcinoid Syndrome
KEYWORDS: net, patients, pubmed, neuroendocrine, tumors, carcinoid, tumor, syndrome, gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine tumors, disease, small, carcinoid syndrome, pmc, free


24 patients with stable disease or severe, refractory carcinoid syndrome, PRRT with four cycles of 177 Lu-DOTATATE effectively reduced flushes and diarrhea in 67% and 47% of patients, respectively ( 155 ). Therefore, PRRT constitutes a viable option for refractory carcinoid syndrome patients with aggressive or progressive disease. In the past, interferon-alpha injections have been shown to diminish diarrhea and flushing resulting from carcinoid syndrome. Its antihormonal effect on top of SSA was limited ( 189 ), however, and given its poor tolerability interferon-alpha is reserved to selected cases, refractory to the above-mentioned options. Anecdotal reports support the use of serotonin receptor antagonists, like granisetron or ondansetron, and antihistamines (H1 and H2 receptor blockers) in refractory carcinoid syndrome. Importantly, the patient should be counselled on supportive therapy, which could include the use of antidiarrheals, like loperamide or morphine, adaptation of dietary intake, including avoidance of alcohol, tryptophan-containing or spicy foods, and the avoidance of stressors ( 29 ). Patients with severe carcinoid syndrome are at a high risk of a catabolic state and vitamin deficiencies. Patients should be referred to a dietician and adequately monitored and supplemented for vitamin deficiencies, particularly for vitamin B3 or niacin and fat-soluble vitamins. Patients suffering from CHD should be evaluated by cardiologists experienced in right-sided cardiac pathology. Dedicated echocardiographic evaluations should be performed, preferably through standardized protocols ( 190 ). Fluid and salt restriction comprise first-line treatment of right-sided heart failure due to tricuspid valve regurgitation or pulmonary valve regurgitation or stenosis in the context of CHD. Alternatively, loop diuretics can be prescribed to treat fluid overload and edema. Severe symptomatic patients should be discussed in a multidisciplinary team for evaluation of surgical valve replacement ( 191 ). PROGNOSIS AND FOLLOW-UP Resection is the only potential cure for gastrointestinal NET. Recurrence is however frequently observed in NET patients operated on with curative intent ( 119 ). Exceptions that are associated with excellent curation rates after local resection include T1-T2 appendiceal, gastric, duodenal, or rectal NET. Long-term imaging follow-up is mandated for the other subtypes of gastrointestinal NET after resection of localized, locoregional, or oligometastatic disease. In a US registry study of almost 100,000 NET patients, median overall survival was 112 months and 62% of patients died of disease-related causes ( 192 ). All-cause mortality was 4.3-fold higher in all NET patients, compared to the general population, while patients with stage IV disease had 35-fold
