MINIREVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, tuberculosis, drug, delivery, pharm, rifampicin, etal, treatment, isoniazid, drug delivery, nanocarriers, liposomes, doi doi, sci, niosomes


dry powder insufflator containing isoniazid was Tianetal.formulatedandevaluatedthepCMFOantigen-loaded moreclearlydetectedintheplasmapost24hadministration dimethyl-dioctadecyl-ammonium (DDA) liposome with and of isoniazid loaded LPHNPs than free isoniazid (not traced without mono-phosphoryl lipid A (MPLA) and trehalose 6,6′- post24h).Thus,isoniazid-loadedLPHNPsserveasasuitable dibehenate (TDB). The in vivo studies on experimental mice carrier for pulmonary delivery in the management of were performed with different treatments: pCMFO, pCMFO/ tuberculosis . DDA, or pCMFO/DMT. The immunogenicity and protective efficiency of BCG-vaccinated mice against Mtb infection were Emulsion-Based Systems also compared and analyzed. The dimethyl-dioctadecyl- Microemulsion ammonium liposome alone, or the addition of TDB or MPLA Microemulsions are transparent and isotropic drug delivery totheDDA liposome,elicitedearlyinterleukin-17 and interferon systems that are thermodynamically stable. They consist of a responsesinvaccinatedmice.Thus,thecontrolledreleasefunction surfactant and co-surfactant that alter at least two mutually oftheDMTliposomemaybeconnectedtotheenhancedefficacyof incompatible solvents, classically water and oil (Talmon and DMT (adjuvant)vaccinationagainst TB(Tianet al.,2018). Prager, 1977; You et al., 2017). Kaur et al. (2015) developed Brig 96 microemulsion Niosomes containing both hydrophobic and hydrophilic drugs for Niosomesexhibitpharmaceuticallyacceptablepropertiessuchas synergistic action. The microemulsion was prepared to entrap non-toxicity, stability, sustained action, biodegradability, anti-tubercularcompoundstoovercomethestabilityproblemsof modification of drug distribution, and potential for improved rifampicin (RIF) in the presence of isoniazid (INH) and drug bioavailability (Khan and Irchhaiya, 2016; Khoee and pyrazinamide (PZA). According to the release kinetics Yaghoobian, 2017). investigation, INH and PZA followed a diffusional (Fickian) Ethionamide and D-Cycloserine dual drug-loaded self- while RIF followed an anomalous release mechanism. The assembled niosomes have been produced by Kulkarni et al. for antimicrobial study showed that compounds when used in the successful treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis. The combination provided potential antimicrobial activity. Thus, niosomeswereoptimizedbyBoxBehnkendesignandcharacterized the study suggested that microemulsions serve as an excellent foratomicforcemicroscopy,invitrohemodialysis,osmoticshock, carrier in multiple drug therapy. andantimicrobialstudies.Thehemodialysisstudiesprovedtooffer safeintravenousadministrationofdualdrug-loadedniosomes.The Nanoemulsion MIC of dual drug-loaded niosomes was the lowest vis-a-vis pure Nanoemulsion is a potential carrier for enhancing the drug and single drug-loaded niosomes. This effectiveness was bioavailability of anti-tubercular compounds mainly via the observed due to the slow release of lipophilic ethambutol and oral route. The nanoemulsion laden with anti-tubercular the initial burst release of D-Cycloserine. Thus, the synergetic molecules can freely transport across the biological barriers effect of a dual drug embedded in niosomes was an effective and therefore decrease the load of Mtb . treatmentfor tuberculosis(Kulkarni etal.,2019). Henostroza et al. developed rifampicin-loaded cationic Figure 1 represents the targeting of alveolar macrophages and nanoemulsion with specific surface alteration using chitosan granulomasusingnanocarriersadministeredbydifferentroutes,and and polymyxin B. Rifampicin nanoemulsion containing Table1showsalistofnanocarriersfortuberculosismanagement. chitosan and rifampicin nanoemulsion
