MINIREVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, tuberculosis, drug, delivery, pharm, rifampicin, etal, treatment, isoniazid, drug delivery, nanocarriers, liposomes, doi doi, sci, niosomes


rifampicin-loaded cationic Figure 1 represents the targeting of alveolar macrophages and nanoemulsion with specific surface alteration using chitosan granulomasusingnanocarriersadministeredbydifferentroutes,and and polymyxin B. Rifampicin nanoemulsion containing Table1showsalistofnanocarriersfortuberculosismanagement. chitosan and rifampicin nanoemulsion containing polymyxin B have both shown particle size around 150nm and zeta Phytosomes potential values of +51.3mV and +5.5mV, respectively. In Phytosomes are commonly used to enhance the bioavailability of vitro mucoadhesion study results reported an electrostatic herbalextracts(SharmaandRoy,2010;Awasthietal.,2011).Theanti- interaction among the cationic nanoemulsion and negatively tubercularherbalextractofGlycyrrhizaglabrawasembeddedintothe charged mucin. This results in enhancing the effectiveness of inhalable liposomes and showed significant inhibition of thedevelopedpreparationbyimprovingitsresidencetimeatthe mycobacteriaintuberculosis-inducedmice(Viswanathanetal.,2019). FrontiersinPharmacology|www.frontiersin.org 4 December2021|Volume12|Article749945 Rajputetal. NanocarriersforManagementofTuberculosis Transferosomes carriers for delivering anti-tubercular compounds and Transferosomesareultra-deformableelasticvesiclescomposedof overcoming tuberculosis’s antibacterial resistance (Praphakar phospholipids and an edge activator (Rajan et al., 2011; et al., 2018). Fernández-García et al., 2020). Chen et al. (2019) developed and characterized isoniazid- Van et al. formulated the lipidic vesicles of artemisone, chitosan-carbon nanotubes. In the in vitro studies, optimized clofazimine, and decoquinate for the topical treatment of drug-loaded nanotubes effectively inhibited Mycobacterium cutaneous tuberculosis. The vesicles comprising 1% each of tuberculosis colonies. The isoniazid-chitosan-carbon nanotubes active pharmaceutical ingredients were formulated by thin-film significantly healed tuberculosis ulcers which were induced in hydration technique. The various studies like hot stage experimental guinea pigs. The immunohistochemistry showed microscopy and differential scanning isothermal calorimeter thelowestnumberofCD4+Tcellsconcerningpureisoniazid.The have shown minimal incompatibility among the APIs and constructed isoniazid chitosan CNTs prolonged the release of other components of vesicles. Finally, developed formulation isoniazid and reduced cytotoxicity and inflammation. effectiveness was studied against the Mtb H37Rv laboratory strain and showed highest percentage inhibition with niosomes Nanomicelles containing 1% clofazimine (van Zyl and Viljoen, 2019). Nanomicelles are versatile nanocarriers constructed from amphiphilic monomers. The polymeric nanomicelles can Other Nanocarriers encapsulate both hydrophilic and lipophilic drugs, thus Dendrimers providing a platform for solubility enhancement of poorly Dendrimersarenanosizedandsymmetricallyorderedbranched soluble drugs (Cholkar et al., 2012; Trinh et al., 2017). polymers with several functional groups significantly used for Praphakar et al. developed the rifampicin-loaded chitosan targeteddrugdelivery.Duetotheiruniquestructure,dendrimers nanomicelles and characterized the ex vivo cellular uptake are suitable for encapsulating anti-tubercular drugs (Ghavami using U937 cells and internalization of the multi-drug micelles and Sardari, 2011). inthezebrafishmodel,whichshowedexcellentresults(Amarnath Ahmed et al. developed and explored the effectiveness of a Praphakar et al., 2019). Fluorescence micrographs of surface-modified 4.0G PAMAM dendrimer as an innovative nanomicelles showed significant entry into A549 cell lines and drug delivery system loaded with rifampicin to manage thusproved itstherapeutic effectiveness forthe managementof
