MINIREVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, tuberculosis, drug, delivery, pharm, rifampicin, etal, treatment, isoniazid, drug delivery, nanocarriers, liposomes, doi doi, sci, niosomes


of surface-modified 4.0G PAMAM dendrimer as an innovative nanomicelles showed significant entry into A549 cell lines and drug delivery system loaded with rifampicin to manage thusproved itstherapeutic effectiveness forthe managementof tuberculosis. The rifampicin was encapsulated into dendrimers tuberculosis . using a simple dissolution solvent evaporation technique and evaluated for different parameters. The percentage coverage of Application of Different Nanocarriers in 4.0G PAMAM dendrimer peripheral with PEG was attained between 38–100%. The entrapment efficiency of native Vaccine Development dendrimer was found to be 7.5% (W/W), and PEGylated Vaccines as a preventive measure have been formulated using dendrimer was >60% (w/w). The PEGylated dendrimers killed or live attenuated microorganisms or components (like indicated a slow-release rate compared to the native DNA or RNA) of a pathogen . Many formulation and free drug. The PEGylation of a dendrimer vaccines are under development in different phases of clinical showed negligible toxicity for formulation with 100% trials, namely AEC/BC02, MTBVAC, ID 93+GLA-SE, VPM functionalization. Thus, formulated PEGylated 4.0G PAMAM 1002, RUTI, H56:IC31, Ad5Ag85A, M72 + AS01, DAR-901 dendrimersareproventobethechoiceofdrugcarrierwithhigh booster, and TB-FLU-04L . The BCG loading, negligible toxicity, and extended-release pattern for vaccine is made from a weakened strain of mycobacteria, and rifampicin . it uses the immune system to protect against the most severe Anisoniazidembeddeddendrimercomplexationwithcopper forms of tuberculosis by stimulating T cell responses (Doherty nanoclusters showed synergism in dose reduction on the and Andersen, 2005). VPM1002, a recombinant BCG (rBCG) Mycobacterium tuberculosis H37Ra strain. This nanocluster vaccine,isoneofthemostadvancedtuberculosisvaccinesbeing could offer a novel alternative in treating tuberculosis tested in clinical trials. (Rodrigues and Shende, 2020). Bellini et al. implemented The nanocarriers play a pivotal role in developing a vaccine molecular dynamics simulations to investigate rifampicin thatenhancesthecellularandhumoralimmunologicalresponses. conjugation with a G4-PAMAM, a fourth-generation poly- Theuseofnanocarriersinvaccinedevelopmentenhancesantigen amido-amine dendrimer for effective drug delivery, stability and immunogenicity and improves targeted delivery of emphasizing physiological stability and pH-dependent release vaccines. The nanocarriers, such as polymeric nanoparticles, . liposomes, nanotubes, micelles, and virus-like particles, have been shown to be good vehicles for delivering antigens and Carbon Nanotubes acting as adjuvants (Hajizade et al., 2014; Mehdi et al., 2020). Carbon nanotubes (CNTs) are hollow tubular/cylindrical The liposomes act as an immunological adjuvant and are nanosized carbon atom structures that are hexagonally extensively studied in vaccine development. The clinical trials organized (Popov, 2004; Grumezescu, 2016). Many studies have been conducted on many liposomal vaccines and received explored the possibility of using carbon nanotubes as effective
