Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, incentives, countries, workers, training, services, public, new, work, health workers, payment, staff, systems, providers, skills


attractive. would require large increases in resources and could require a The causes ofhealth HR problems in developing countries change in strategy by development partners toward supporting are complex, and attempts to address them must reflect this recurrent costs (Jha and Mills 2002).The labor market model complexity. Table 71.2 suggests a framework for exploring indicates that higher salaries would be needed to attract addi- links between factors at individual, organizational, and thaninproportion to the number ofstaffmembers employed. approach, which gives prominence to the roles of and rela- which they control to contain overall government spending. the whole. This practice further widens the gap between salaries for The individual health worker level serves as a starting professionals at home and abroad. pointfor exploring the determinants of health worker behav- Although improved economic performance and increased ior and performance (Kyaddondo and White 2003). development assistance may allow some increases in health Performance here means productivity and quality of services. spending,in most LMICs it is not plausible that such increases Individuals respond to individual concerns through coping would be sufficient to make the necessary skills available with- strategies,such as informal and dual practices,with associated out a range of strategies,including better regulation,stronger consequences. There are multiple links between individual cost. factors. Organizational and system arrangements define 1310 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Charles Hongoro and Charles Normand Table 71.2 Framework for Diagnosing HR Issues Financial Incentives in the HealthSector Most of the comparatively scarce evidence on the relative Level Issue importance offinancial and other incentives for health workers at the individual level comes from developed countries. Two Individual health worker findings emerge from recruitment and turnover studies.First, Internal capacity Knowledge, skills, competencies, attitude at extremely low salaries, financial incentives are particularly Remuneration Salary and perquisites, payment methods important (Normand and Thompson 2000). Second, at least Work environment half of the variation in turnover can be attributed to financial Immediate environment See organizational-level issues incentives (Gray and Phillips 1996).These findings leave con- Distant environment See systemic-level issues siderable scope for improving retention using organizational Productivity Outputs or outcomes per given unit of changes, but such changes will be only partially successful if time or per individual or group of much better financial rewards are available elsewhere. individuals International migration has increased as restrictions on Responses to organizational Low motivation, morale, productivity, and moves to high-income countries have been eased . and systemic
