Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, incentives, countries, workers, training, services, public, new, work, health workers, payment, staff, systems, providers, skills


rewards are available elsewhere. individuals International migration has increased as restrictions on Responses to organizational Low motivation, morale, productivity, and moves to high-income countries have been eased . and systemic constraints quality of services Many developed countries have shortages ofhealth profession- Informal practices, for example, unofficial als and actively recruit from low-income countries, thereby fees, dual practice, misuse of public raising the opportunity cost ofremaining at home. resources, and unethical practices Emergence of unskilled informal practitioners Health Care Systems’ Responses to Health Worker Issues Organizational level Presence or absence of an appropriate physical and operational context—that often with international support. These reforms tended to is, availability of materials and facilities to deliver services of acceptable quality, focus more on structures and financing and less on resource workload management, and organiza- issues (Martineau and Buchan 2000). Other government tional norms and practices (organizational reforms aimed mainly at improving efficiency and reducing culture, management and leadership the cost of government administration have often had large styles) effects on the health workforce (Adams and Hicks 2000; Organizational autonomy across key Corkery 2000). Some changes have attempted to introduce strategic and functional issues better incentives,such as performance-related pay and renew- Systemic level Level of bureaucracy and decentralization able contracts, and to remove underperformers and ghost workers.Evidence on the effects ofthese reforms suggests that regulatory arrangements more emphasis should have been placed on designing incen- Policy context—for example, pro-market tives to improve performance and retention and on moving policies and diversification of the health further away from workforce quotas and norms. Using the care market in the spirit of a public- private mix three levels ofanalysis,the following sections consider policies, Socioeconomic and political context management, and incentives and how they can help match skills to needs. Medico-legal policy and enforcement Source: Note:This chapter uses a narrow definition of health systemthat considers socioeconomic and political issues as part of a wider context. HEALTH CARE STAFF the incentive context for health workers and influence both Workforce planning should be dynamic and should link policy organizational and individual performance. goals to staffmembers’skills and numbers and to performance- create incentives for appropriate supply and deployment of health workers.HR development experts tend to focus more Workforce Planning to Meet Policy Goals on problems encountered in the lower tiers ofthis framework. Political pressure for short-term solutions partly explains Several factors make workforce planning in health particularly hensively. The wider context can
