Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, incentives, countries, workers, training, services, public, new, work, health workers, payment, staff, systems, providers, skills


Goals on problems encountered in the lower tiers ofthis framework. Political pressure for short-term solutions partly explains Several factors make workforce planning in health particularly hensively. The wider context can also be important. Good long training time for some professions,and lack ofdirect gov- governance at the national level is necessary to make policy ernment control over the number of professionals being Health Workers: Building and Motivating the Workforce | 1311 schools, such as in Bangladesh, or because of people going countries, although there have been attempts to change this overseas for training (although Singapore has addressed this balance. For example, more than 25 percent of Malawi’s problem by restricting the colleges that the government recog- curriculumformedicalstudentsfocusesoncommunityhealth. nizes for registering doctors). The greatest difficulty comes Giventhatanytrainingprogramcancoveronlyaportionofrel- from the unpredictable loss ofskilled staffmembers to private evantknowledge,focusingonlocallyrelevanttopicsisincreas- aclose link exists between HR planning and incentives and reg- in Africa and elsewhere are based on the community-based able form oftertiary education for women,and many ofthose who are trained do not practice. Numbers and Types of Health Professionals Akeytomorerationalworkforceplanningisbettercoordi- nationbetweenhealthplanningandplanningfortrainingand Categories of workers result from combinations of previous education.Powerfulinterestgroupscanopposetheexpansion and current needs,national traditions,interest group pressures, of training. Training establishments often oppose change be- and historical accidents.Doctors,nurses,and some paramed- causeitmaydisruptexistingarrangementsandthreatencurrent ical professions have wide international recognition but vary staff members. The development of new professional groups in definition. Professional traditions and professional bodies faces particular resistance from existing professional groups, bring some safeguards for quality and safety, and at best, which,quitecorrectly,perceivethenewgroupsasposingathreat professionals champion the needs of patients.Membership of to their interests. For example, some dentists in South Africa arecognized profession can bring desirable independence from expressedconcernovertrainingofdentaltechnicianswhocarry management. However, internationally recognized qualifica- outawiderangeofpreventiveandrestorativedentistryatlower tions make it easy for professionals to migrate to countries fees(Matomela2004). offering higher incomes and better careers. Models for HR needs are easy to devise, but determining Most developing countries have new categories ofstaffthat health planners must estimate the length ofa nursing career— and Dal Poz 2003). Examples include nurses with extended potentially up to 45 years but often much less, especially if training and roles and people working at subnurse levels with nurses are willing to work outside nursing (Phillips and others training of a few weeks to three years.Bangladesh has family situation must be changed ifplanning is to improve. as subdoctors;and nursing aids in Uganda have three months of training. Training is for specific roles without the generic training in conventional professions.Typically,such
