Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, incentives, countries, workers, training, services, public, new, work, health workers, payment, staff, systems, providers, skills


must be changed ifplanning is to improve. as subdoctors;and nursing aids in Uganda have three months of training. Training is for specific roles without the generic training in conventional professions.Typically,such employees Basic Skills Training and Continuing Skill Development Whereas the quality of basic training of health professionals countries. varies widely in LMICs,the provision ofcontinuing education In the labor market model,employers want to employ staff and development is almost universally inadequate.Hence,skill members iftheir contribution to service provision is ofgreater levels of staff members fall over time.Evidence indicates that value than the cost of their employment. Because those with good-quality continuing professional development is a positive portable qualifications can work in other countries,salary lev- incentive and helps to retain staff members.Requirements to els needed to retain workers reflect that possibility.Theory sug- undertake continuing education can be made a condition of gests that staff members will develop new skills if such an continued professional registration and can thereby provide investment of their time and money produces significantly some guarantee ofcompetence. increased salary or benefits.Many countries cannot fulfill their sional skills and learning skills.Basic training and continuing reflects salaries that are too low to attract staff.However,rais- development should be planned together. In many cases, the ing salaries may make employment of the full complement of large investment in basic training is lost because of lack of staffmembers unaffordable. maintenance,so that shifting some resources to updating and Staffing norms serve little useful role if the salaries needed renewing skills is efficient. to fill the posts are unaffordable. Decisions about how many A further challenge is to align the content oftraining to the people should be employed and in what capacities should be skills professionals need. Many training programs in LMICs based on the contributions those employees will make and the provide skills oriented toward service needs in developed costs of employing them. Staffing norms can be useful for 1312 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Charles Hongoro and Charles Normand care,the skills needed,and the way to provide those skills most The World Health Report 2000 defines incentives for health efficiently. Several countries have of necessity turned to new workersas “all the rewards and punishments that providers face models of provision using staff skilled in the delivery of key as a consequence ofthe organizations in which they work,the elements of high-priority services,such as immunization and institutions under which they operate, and the specific inter-
