Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, incentives, countries, workers, training, services, public, new, work, health workers, payment, staff, systems, providers, skills


in the delivery of key as a consequence ofthe organizations in which they work,the elements of high-priority services,such as immunization and institutions under which they operate, and the specific inter- emergency obstetric care. a hierarchy ofincentives or disincentives generated by the work tem context in which they work. Incentives are generally Research on the new professions is limited, and much of the designed to accomplish the following: material is anecdotal (Buchan and Dal Poz 2003).A growing literature from developed countries indicates that nurses can be • to encourage providers to furnish specific services safe and effective in place ofdoctors in primary care (Venning • to encourage cost containment and others 2000).The fear is that the absence ofa formal pro- • to support staffrecruitment and retention fession and the lack of internationally recognized training • to enhance the productivity and quality ofservices could damage quality and safety.This issue is important,but • to allow for effective management. even ifnew professionals are less safe than doctors,they may be much safer than the absence of a service such as emergency Responses ofproviders to incentives depend on context and obstetric care.In some countries,new professions play a major on the stage oftheir career.Incentives that induce productivity part in the provision of services.A good example is Malawi, vary with experience, stage in a career path, and changes in where clinical officers with extensive training (but much less providers’ social responsibilities. Ideally, incentive structures than that ofdoctors) are a major resource,carrying out surgi- should recognize the evolutionary nature ofwork expectations. cal procedures and administering anesthetics as well as provid- Typically,incentives vary by type of employer:nongovern- ing medical care. In some countries, regulations govern such mental organization,public,or private.Public sector incentives extended roles (McAuliffe and Henry 1995). tend to be the weakest because resource constraints and Fenton,Whitty,and Reynolds’s (2003) study of emergency bureaucratic rules on civil servant employment constrain the cesarean sections carried out by clinical officers in Malawi use ofboth financial and nonfinancial incentives. found that the overall maternal death rate was 1.3 percent, which is high,but much lower than ifservices had not existed. Perinatal deaths were 13.6 percent.None ofthe anesthetists was Typology of Incentives medically qualified,but outcomes were better when these prac- titioners had received anesthetics training (maternal deaths Extrinsic incentives can be individual and organizational,mon- were 0.9 percent compared with 2.4 percent).The researchers etary and nonmonetary (table 71.3). Discussions of provider found no significant difference in outcome
