Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, incentives, countries, workers, training, services, public, new, work, health workers, payment, staff, systems, providers, skills


spouse but financial and nonfinancial incentives are mutually rein- and life insurance Financial responsibility goals more readily understood and shared can make financial Travel and transport incentives more powerful.Such change in the organization of External allowances health care can be politically sensitive because it can give health Governance Child care allowance sector workers advantages over other public employees. Public finance policy Rural location allowance Incentives may have conflicting effects.For example,decen- Regulatory mechanisms Heat allowance tralization might create the autonomy needed for effective Retention and professional management,but without transparent management and career allowances structures and job security,providers might view such a change Subsidized meals, as a threat (Kyaddondo and White 2003).Getting the balance clothing, and right requires understanding the socioeconomic and political accommodation circumstances and may be helped by using participatory Nonfinancial approaches to policy making and implementation. Vacation days Flexible working hours Context Access to training and education Context is defined here from an individual or an organizational provider’s perspective. It constitutes what Adams and Hicks Sabbatical and study leave (2000) refer to as external incentives—that is,methods used by Planned career breaks health systems to control the activities of health organizations Occupational health or funders. Functional and The power ofincentives depends on context.Health systems professional autonomy in developing countries have varying cultural and economic Technical support and histories that shape providers’ expectations and responses to feedback systems incentives.Financial incentives are strong when health workers’ Transparent reward systems incomes are low,as in most developing countries.Nevertheless, examples of strong nonfinancial incentives exist in countries Valued by the organization Source:Adapted from Zurn 2003. workers’decisions on where to work.Such nonfinancial incen- Note:These are mostly extrinsic incentives. tives affect the size ofthe financial incentives needed to change where people choose to work. History and experience determine a country’s working cul- and program performance. Goals were clearly specified, were are large bureaucracies whose management is driven centrally understood and shared by the staff, and were often linked to by guidelines, standards, and reporting systems. Incentives incentives. The choice of vertical structures also reflects the in such systems work against innovation, risk taking, and their excessive bureaucracy,underfunding,and lack ofcapacity changes that are based on the ideas of so-called new public to implement integrated disease control. management.New public management replaces line manage- Vertical programs must eventually be reintegrated into the ment with contracts or agreements between funders and policy system.The HIV/AIDS pandemic is a good example of a
