Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, incentives, countries, workers, training, services, public, new, work, health workers, payment, staff, systems, providers, skills


changing physicians’employment status from civil servants to tion and governance structures that minimize the common contracted public employees, providing housing, and intro- problems ofpatronage and corruption . ducing a system ofpeer review and recognition.These initiatives the degree of decentralization. Links exist between working sustained rural development. In most developing countries, organization.The locus ofcontrol and decision making play an hard to recruit and retain health workers in rural areas. needs is much easier in a decentralized system.This theory is policies—can change provider behavior,in this case from rely- based on the belief that subnational units are better placed to ing on government salaries alone to the use of“red packages” make effective decisions on funding,regulating,and organizing (Bloom,Han,and Li 2001).These red packages were gifts that frontline activities than are centralized units.However,experi- were traditionally exchanged as an expression of mutual ence in developing countries shows that lack of capacity at appreciation, but they have now evolved into informal cash Han,and Li 2001).Any move toward decentralization requires skills and expectations,and incentives for one group can have investment in new management skills and capacities. negative effects on others (Adams and Hicks 2000). Policy makers must strike a balance between competing interests of professional groups and system goals. The unionization of Incentives in Practice labor and the growth of professional associations or councils Many countries have attempted to reform their economies and can give health workers considerable bargaining power. health sectors to improve general economic and health system Solving one problem can create others.This situation often performance. For example, Cambodia, the Arab Republic of occurs when governments respond to the grievances of the Egypt,Uganda,and Zambia have attempted civil service reforms most vocal professional groups, usually doctors, and neglect .These reforms include attempts to reduce the other groups.This piecemeal approach has caused HR crises, size ofthe civil service to lower costs and to improve productiv- such as strikes and go-slows.Although health workers are nor- performance-based pay and promotion.Such reforms have been own interests can conflict with those goals. Providing higher ical difficulties in reducing the size ofthe civil service.Structural to services by some social groups (Bloom,Han,and Li 2001). and organizational changes are typically unpopular with labor unions,especially ifunion members perceive them as threaten- Compensation ing their well-being.Experience also underscores the difficulties ofaligning system and organizational objectives with individual Provider payment systems transfer resources from payers (gov- providers’objectives (Martineau and Buchan 2000). ernments,insurers,and patients) to providers Health Workers: Building and
