Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, incentives, countries, workers, training, services, public, new, work, health workers, payment, staff, systems, providers, skills


71.5 summarizes common payment mecha- depends in part on monitoring and governance standards. nisms and the desired incentives.The evidence shows that the The challenge is to find payment combinations that motivate operation ofpayment mechanisms is sensitive to the payment providers to provide desired volume and quality of services structure and how it is implemented (Berman and others 1997; while containing costs. Bitran and Yip 1998;Chomitz and others 1998). Payment systems are more successful when built on existing Empirical Evidence on Payment Methods traditions and culture (that is,when they take into account gift systems or,indeed,levels ofcorruption).It is normally best to Evidence of provider payment systems that have successfully use a combination of payment methods.For instance,if there aligned system and provider incentives is still limited (Bitran is a shortage of public providers, they might be paid a basic and Yip 1998). Interesting findings come from small-scale salary for normal working hours and fees for service for after- experiments such as Cambodia’s New Deal (box 71.1).Health Health Workers: Building and Motivating the Workforce | 1317 Table 71.5 Major Payment Mechanisms Introducing financial incentives for health workers is costly. Policy makers in governments and development partners need Payment mechanism Key incentives for providers to ensure that adequate funding is available and sustainable. Fees for service Increase the number of cases seen Resources are also needed to improve working environments Increase service intensity and system capacities. Both financial incentives and other Provide more expensive services incentives are important,but services are likely to improve only Case payment (for example, Increase the number of cases seen iffinancial incentives are strengthened. diagnosis-related groups) Decrease service intensity Provide less expensive services Group Incentives Daily charge Increase the number of bed days Health workers typically work in teams.This system weakens through longer stays or more cases financial incentives because the efforts ofindividuals may have Flat rate (bonus payment) Provide specific bonus services and little influence on overall performance. Indeed, individual neglect other services incentives can worsen team cooperation.For example,if pro- Capitation Attract more patients to register while minimizing the number of motion is competitive and depends on measures ofindividual contacts with each and minimizing productivity,this approach can be a disadvantage for those who service intensity work for system goals in cooperative ways. Salary Reduce the number of patients and Designing effective group incentives is difficult. Paying the number of services provided group bonuses for achieving a given level of output
