Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, incentives, countries, workers, training, services, public, new, work, health workers, payment, staff, systems, providers, skills


external subsidies from various workers were common,largely because oftheir low public able for the scheme, Médicins Sans Frontiéres and the salaries: government staff received US$10 to US$12 per United Nations Children’s Fund had to provide an initial month, compared with a minimum of US$100 required injection offunds to support the bonus system. informal charges and extensive use ofunregulated private the management committees,and compliance with inter- services,households spent more than US$30 per inhabi- nal regulations improved.The staffwas generally present, total household expenditure. patients received drugs,and informal payments were not The New Deal was seen as a vehicle for improving demanded. Use of health services increased significantly services by enhancing personal income, and its overall after the arrangement had been introduced.The number catalyst for changes in national health policy.The princi- started receiving bonuses that gradually grew beyond the ply with internal regulations governing (a) job descrip- ployment problems, which meant that most staff mem- tions and working hours; (b) payment of informal fees; bersworkedovertime.Nevertheless,thequalityofservices (c) misappropriation of drugs,materials,and funds; and improved significantly,and per capita family expenditures (d) diversion ofpatients to private practice. on health fell 40 percent. Source: Soeters and Griffiths 2003. from the public service, leading to disillusionment among likely to encourage private practice among public workers. workers and effective opposition from unions . Thus,the effects of methods and levels of payments are influ- In countries with thriving private sectors, devising strong enced by what is happening in the private sector. incentives for public sector workers is difficult.For instance,in Uganda, the private not-for-profit sector used to have better Optimal Combination of Health Worker Compensation working conditions and pay than the public sector and conse- and Incentives quently had better staffing levels. The government had to increase public sector salaries significantly in the 1990s to Although the optimal mix of provider compensation depends private sector when public health workers are paid a salary is on the design of payment methods to achieve organizational Health Workers: Building and Motivating the Workforce | 1319 and system goals are available.Linking compensation to per- ADVICE FOR GOVERNMENTS formance makes intuitive sense,but care is needed in working Governments in developing countries face huge challenges in out the details.Health workers respond to both financial and nonfinancial incentives,but the extent ofthe effect varies,and if cost-effective disease control interventions are to achieve the two can interact. their desired results. Strengthening their systems will entail developing self-sustaining systems for the supply,
