Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, incentives, countries, workers, training, services, public, new, work, health workers, payment, staff, systems, providers, skills


extent ofthe effect varies,and if cost-effective disease control interventions are to achieve the two can interact. their desired results. Strengthening their systems will entail developing self-sustaining systems for the supply, use, and must be governed by effective managerial authority. Because retention of health workers.The following considerations are new payment systems aim to encourage particular behaviors important in relation to putting effective policies and incentive and hold providers accountable, clear responsibility must be structures in place: delineated within provider organizations. This delineation may be easier to achieve if the management of providers has • Countries should explicitly link the planned number ofeach some autonomy. Evidence from developing countries that category ofstaffmembers to health policy goals and set pri- have attempted to introduce managerial autonomy and corpo- orities,taking overall resources into account when planning from government control is politically sensitive.Nevertheless, recruit and retain staffmembers will depend on the oppor- such organizational or system changes are desirable if new tunities such workers have for other employment within the payment methods are to create the right incentives and country and abroad,and planned numbers in each category achieve the desired changes. should be based on this reality. Part ofthe context for incentive systems is what type ofdis- • Countries should understand both that qualifications that ease control activities are best provided through markets or are recognized internationally are likely to attract higher hierarchies. Traditionally, the public sector has been domi- salaries and that such qualifications may only be partially nant. The economic arguments for government involvement suited to the needs of essential health services in LMICs. are well understood,but delivery ofservices within the frame- Theyshouldfocusondevelopingthemostimportantskills work ofgovernment policy objectives can be by private (both bytrainingnewtypesofhealthworkers,takingintoaccount for-profit and not-for-profit) providers.Thus,the private sec- evidencethat use of suchhealthworkerscanbesafewhen tor is increasingly involved in the social marketing ofcondoms properlytrained.Manycountrieswillbeunabletoprevent and bednets, franchising, and contracting (Bennett, McPake, thelossofprofessionalswithportablequalifications,because and Mills 1997). salariesofferedwillbefarbelowthoseavailableelsewhere. From an economic viewpoint the only issues are the cost, • Countries’ training policies should take into account the quality, and sustainability of such arrangements. Emerging decline in skills over time and the need to allocate scarce evidenceonprivatesectorinvolvementinhealthservicessug- resources between basic training and continuing staff gests that the private sector is willing to participate in non- development. clinical disease control activities if the incentive structure is • Countries should adapt and not imitate compensation and right. Private not-for-profit providers, such as hospitals and incentive structures,given the evidence that
