Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, incentives, countries, workers, training, services, public, new, work, health workers, payment, staff, systems, providers, skills


disease control activities if the incentive structure is • Countries should adapt and not imitate compensation and right. Private not-for-profit providers, such as hospitals and incentive structures,given the evidence that effective incen- clinics associated with churches, have traditionally comple- tive structures depend on local conditions and traditions as and peripheral populations (Gilson and others 1997). In • Policy makers should remember that the availability and recent years, Bangladesh has experimented with contracting cost of suitably qualified human resources will affect feasi- nongovernmentalorganizationstoprovideprimarycareserv- bility and cost-effectiveness ofdisease control interventions. ices in urban areas. Lessons from this experience are still • When developing vertical disease control programs,program emerging and indicate that, despite many early mistakes, managers must avoid introducing powerful incentives that this form of provision can be innovative and can help make damage existing services by drawing away key personnel. a break from bureaucratic traditions. Such contracting • Policy makers should identify potentially harmful, unin- depends on having contracting skills in both parties to the tended consequences when designing regulation and incen- contract. A good understanding of context and incentives is tive systems.For example,ifdoctors are allowed to practice alsocrucial. in both public and private services, the effects of private In summary,incentive or payment packages should attempt practice on incentives in public practice tend to be negative to link payment with individual or group performance and unless carefully monitored. should be assisted by supportive organizational and system • Countries should recognize that the use of incentives to changes if the desired provider behavior is to be achieved.No improve performance normally requires good regulatory single best combination ofpayment methods exists. frameworks and skilled managerial resources. 1320 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Charles Hongoro and Charles Normand RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AGENDA in resource-constrained environments and on what is needed to retain professionals in such settings. We know New staff categories are emerging in many LMICs,and these littleabouthowhealthcareworkersmakedecisionsabouta workers are an important part ofthe workforce.Such staffcat- rangeofincentivesanddisincentivesgeneratedbyorganiza- egories are likely to increase,given migration and the high cost tionsandthesystemsinwhichtheywork.Forexample,what of employing people with portable qualifications, but little doesittaketoconvincedoctorsandnursestoworkinrural research is available on the appropriateness and safety of the andremotepartsofacountry?Towhatextentarefinancial new sets of skills,and little is known about the range of new andnonfinancialincentivesimportantinattractingpeople professions,the content ofand approach to training,the extent of professional supervision, and the outcomes of treatment. areas,motivatingthem,andretainingtheminthesystem? Sharing experience of such staff categories would be valuable. Priorities,therefore,include a study to map the
