Diabetic Striatopathy
KEYWORDS: movement, pubmed, disorders, movement disorders, hyperglycemia, diabetic, cases, patients, diabetes, free, movements, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, article


is known to alleviate abnormal movements in most of the cases ( 1 , 2 , 8 ). Among all the movement semiologies discussed in literature, hemichorea-hemiballism is most frequently reported ( 1 , 2 ). Diabetic striatopathy (DS) is an umbrella term referring to a hyperglycemic condition associated with both or either one of the two following conditions: ( 1 ) acute onset chorea-ballism; ( 2 ) striatal hyperdensity on computed tomography (CT) or striatal hyperintensity on T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) ( 1 , 2 , 10 ). We herein briefly summarize the movement disorders in DM keeping DS at the center of discussion. Epidemiological and clinical spectrum, pathophysiology, neuroradiological conundrums, and available treatment are discussed. We also have tried to shed light upon the knowledge gaps in understanding of this particular disease that need to be addressed. EPIDEMIOLOGY- MAGNITUDE OF THE PROBLEM At present there is no prospective epidemiological study to assess the incidence or prevalence data available regarding movement disorders in diabetes. Few retrospective analyses with weak study methodology showed the prevalence of DS was in order of 1% or even less ( 11 - 13 ). On the other hand, a prospective study by Dubey et al revealed that 17.4% patients were diabetic among 552 patients presented with acute onset movement disorders and its mimics (including epilepsia partialis continua in a movement disorder clinic ( 1 ). A systematic review of 176 patients observed that the lion share of DS cases was reported from Asian countries ( 2 ). Multiple factors like easy accessibility to healthcare, poor compliance to drugs, ethnicity, or genetic susceptibility might play roles, but it definitely requires more exploration. However, a study by Shafran et al revealed that DS was actually underdiagnosed in western populations leading to its underreporting ( 11 ). Acute onset movement disorders in diabetes had been reported in a wide range of age groups ranging from first to ninth decade ( 2 ). The mean age of the patients was generally sixth to seventh decade observed in different case series or systematic reviews ( 2 , 14 - 19 ). Two studies from India reported a relatively younger mean age (fifth decade) of presentation ( 1 , 20 ). Chen et al analyzing only the cases of hemichorea-hemiballism with ketotic hyperglycemia also found a median age of 54 years ( 21 ). Across different studies over the
