Diabetic Striatopathy
KEYWORDS: movement, pubmed, disorders, movement disorders, hyperglycemia, diabetic, cases, patients, diabetes, free, movements, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, article


20 ). Chen et al analyzing only the cases of hemichorea-hemiballism with ketotic hyperglycemia also found a median age of 54 years ( 21 ). Across different studies over the years, notably, a woman preponderance (nearly 2 times in most of the studies) of hyperglycemic hemichorea-hemiballism movements had been observed ( 2 , 14 - 21 ). The exact reason for this female predominance or the role of biological sex on hyperglycemia-induced acute movement disorders needs further study. Some have postulated that increased dopaminergic receptor sensitivity secondary to estrogen deficiency in the striatum among postmenopausal women might make them susceptible to hyperkinetic movement disorders ( 17 , 21 ). In contrast with this global scenario, the authors’ largest clinical series from India revealed a slight male predominance (52.5%) which needs further confirmation by replication in other independent studies ( 1 ). CLINICAL PRESENTATION- SPECTRUM OF MOVEMENT DISORDERS IN DIABETES Among different movement semiologies described among diabetics (table-1), hemichorea-hemiballism is the most common and classically described ( 1 - 8 ). Table 1. Different Movement Semiologies Observed Among Patients with Diabetes View in own window Choreic and ballistic movements Non-choreoballistic movements Choreoballism- hemi / mono / generalized Pure chorea- hemi / mono / generalized Pure ballism- hemi / mono / generalized Choreoathetosis Tremors Hemifacial spasm Parkinsonism Myoclonus- focal, action, diaphragmatic, opsoclonus-myoclonus Dystonia Restless leg syndrome Ataxia Dyskinesia- Paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia, paroxysmal non-kinesigenic dyskinesia, paroxysmal exertional dyskinesia Dubey et al ( 1 ) in their largest clinical series showed that non-choreic, non-ballistic movements were present among 30.5% of 59 cases. Therefore, an immediate capillary blood glucose (CBG) measurement in all patients with any sort of acute onset movement disorders is of pivotal importance before ordering other costly and time-consuming investigations. Bilateral clinical involvement was identified in 37.2% of all patients and was significantly more common in non-choreoballistic movement disorders than choreoballism ( 1 ). In an analysis by Chua et al bilaterality was documented in 9.7% DS cases ( 2 ), whereas bilaterality was even more frequently (19.5%) observed in the series described by Dubey et al ( 1 ). The latter was the only study which systematically assessed both the hyperglycemia-associated choreoballism and non-choreoballistic movement disorders. It observed no statistically significant differences regarding demographic or clinical variables between these two types of movement disorders except bilaterality and delay in diagnosis (more frequent in non-choreoballism than choreoballism) ( 1 ). Many a
