Diabetic Striatopathy
KEYWORDS: movement, pubmed, disorders, movement disorders, hyperglycemia, diabetic, cases, patients, diabetes, free, movements, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, article


differences regarding demographic or clinical variables between these two types of movement disorders except bilaterality and delay in diagnosis (more frequent in non-choreoballism than choreoballism) ( 1 ). Many a times seizures can mimic hyperkinetic movement disorders or sometimes both may coexist ( 3 ). Most commonly epilepsia partialis continua mimics a movement disorder. It is not conventionally categorized as a movement disorder; but is rather a type of simple focal motor status epilepticus with frequent repetitive muscle jerks, usually arrhythmic, that continues over prolonged periods. Moreover, the epilepsia partialis continua patients have electroencephalographic changes. The differentials to be considered are stroke, associated opposite hemispheric structural defect/s, and space-occupying lesions. Non-ketotic hyperglycemia is a well-known cause of reversible epilepsia partialis continua ( 22 , 23 ). CORRELATION WITH MARKERS OF GLYCEMIA AND DIABETIC COMPLICATIONS Movement disorders have been described in different types of DM, including type 1, type 2 and type 3c diabetes ( 1 , 2 , 5 ). DS is generally a complication of long-standing DM with poorly controlled glycemic status flared up by an acute hyperglycemic surge in a non-ketotic milieu. In the cohort of Dubey et al the mean duration of DM was 9.8 years and movement disorders were the presenting manifestation of previously undiagnosed DM in three cases (5.1%) ( 1 ). Patient-level meta-analysis of previously published cases has found a higher number (17%) of DS cases having previously undiagnosed DM ( 2 ). This discrepancy could be due to lack of screening or publication bias. Nonetheless, it is recommended to measure blood glucose levels at presentation among all patients with acute onset movement disorders irrespective of their past glycemic status. Importantly, the majority of the patients with DS bears the stigmata of other chronic microvascular diabetic complications ( 1 ). PATHOPHYSIOLOGY- HOW METABOLIC MICROVASCULAR EFFECTS INFLUENCE MACRO-MOVEMENTS From the various previously reported speculative pathophysiological basis of DS, Dubey et al ( 10 ) proposed "ominous octet" of pathogenesis of DS, which includes sequential occurrence of following factors: 1) gemistocytopathy, 2) petechial hemorrhage, 3) methemoglobin deposition, 4) mineral (calcium and magnesium) deposition, 5) cytotoxic edema, 6) myelinolysis, 7) gliosis, and 8) atrophy. The hyperglycemic state results in hyperosmolarity and hyperviscosity leading to reduced cerebral blood flow causing insult to the striatal astrocytes which are exquisitely sensitive to ischemia. These tumescent reactive astrocytes are known as gemistocytes, the most consistent finding gathered from limited number of
