Diabetic Striatopathy
KEYWORDS: movement, pubmed, disorders, movement disorders, hyperglycemia, diabetic, cases, patients, diabetes, free, movements, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, article


flow causing insult to the striatal astrocytes which are exquisitely sensitive to ischemia. These tumescent reactive astrocytes are known as gemistocytes, the most consistent finding gathered from limited number of biopsy studies ( 2 ). Interestingly enough, genesis of majority of hyperglycemic movement disorders occurs in the background of non-ketotic milieu ( 1 , 2 ). In non-ketotic hyperglycemia brain metabolism is shifted towards the alternative anaerobic pathway in Krebs cycle causing depletion in gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), an inhibitory neurotransmitter. This leads to attenuated inhibition of the subthalamus by the medial globus pallidus resulting in hyperkinetic movements. Conversely, GABA can be readily re-synthesized from acetoacetate, which is in abundance in the ketotic milieu ( 8 ). Hence, in the latter state, hyperkinetic movements rarely occur unless some other sinister mechanisms (such as cerebrovascular insufficiency or ultrastructural changes in basal ganglia) are at play ( 1 ). NEURORADIOLOGICAL AND CLINICAL CONUNDRUM OF DS Although the sensitivity of MRI was observed to be higher than CT scan to detect DS (95.3% vs. 78.9%), the need for CT can’t be obviated in cases of negative MRI scans. There is plenty of cases where mismatch (defined as the complete absence of anomaly in basal ganglia on one imaging modality, but not the other) and incompatibility (defined as the difference in locations of striatal anomalies between CT and MRI) exist ( 2 ). Hyperdensity on CT or hyperintensity on T1-weighted MRI in contralateral (to the side of the abnormal movements) putamen surrounding edema or mass effect, along with hyperglycemia and hemichorea-hemiballism movements, is pathognomonic of DS ( 10 ). Putamen is the most commonly involved striatal structure, whereas isolated caudate or globus pallidus or subthalamic nucleus involvement seem to be less frequent ( 1 , 2 ). A significant portion of cases shows concomitant affliction of all three striatal components (putamen, caudate, and globus pallidus) ( 2 ). The reason behind putaminal vulnerability to hyperglycemia and how the same anatomical lesion causes such wide arrays of movement disorders remain elusive. The pathological basis behind the striatal hyperintensity on T1-weighted MRI and hyperdensity on CT scan in these patients can be proved by histopathological evidence of petechial hemorrhages causing accumulation of methemoglobin ( 2 ). Unfortunately, this theory of microhemorrhages behind T1 hyperintensity can’t be substantiated well on corresponding gradient-echo images. In contrast, accumulation of gemistocytes due to ischemic events and neuronal dysfunction may partially explain
