Diabetic Striatopathy
KEYWORDS: movement, pubmed, disorders, movement disorders, hyperglycemia, diabetic, cases, patients, diabetes, free, movements, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, article


this theory of microhemorrhages behind T1 hyperintensity can’t be substantiated well on corresponding gradient-echo images. In contrast, accumulation of gemistocytes due to ischemic events and neuronal dysfunction may partially explain the striatal hyperintensity on T1-weighted MRI, but not hyperdensity on CT ( 2 , 10 ). Few DS cases have documented restricted diffusion in diffusion-weighted imaging sequence ( 24 ). Advanced imaging modalities such as MR volumetry, spectroscopy, functional MRI, positron emission tomography (PET), single photon emission CT (SPECT), susceptibility weighted MR, perfusion imaging etc. although not routinely done in clinical practice for diagnosis of DS, might unveil its intricate pathophysiological basis ( 2 , 10 ). Previous studies showed that in different case series patients with choreo-ballistic movements did not have suggestive neuroimaging findings in 5-45% cases (clinically isolated DS) ( 2 , 14 - 17 , 25 ). Study focusing on both choreo-ballistic and non-choreo-ballistic movements revealed that only 44% cases had changes in brain MRI ( 1 ). This wide variability had been attributed to the varied use of MRI or CT and non-homogenous neuroradiological definition of DS applied among various studies ( 1 , 2 , 10 ). Moreover, neuroradiological changes lag behind the clinical manifestations. Nevertheless, it underscores the importance of initiating management by recognizing this disease phenomenon on the basis of clinical symptomatology (presence of acute onset movement disorders with concurrent hyperglycemia) without waiting for neuroimaging ( 1 ). On the contrary, 2% of patients may show radiological striatal lesions without any clinically manifested movement disorders (radiologically isolated DS) ( 2 , 26 - 28 ). There are also plenty of reports of clinical-radiological discordance or inconsistency in DS ( 1 , 2 , 14 ). Thus, striatopathy with clinically manifested movement disorders (symptomatic DS) can be subdivided into two groups, i.e., 1) concordant: bilateral involuntary movements with bilateral DS, or unilateral involuntary movements with contralateral DS ( 6 ); and 2) discordant: bilateral involuntary movements with unilateral DS or unilateral involuntary movements with bilateral or ipsilateral DS ( 10 , 29 - 31 ). This frequently observed clinical-radiological dissociation in DS is apparently contradictory with the classical concept of neurological localization of lesion-manifestation and requires further studies with newer neuroimaging modalities ( 1 , 10 ). Due to the controversial and ambiguous nature of the term "diabetic striatopathy" in literature ( 2 ), we had previously proposed a three-subset classification ( 10 )
