Diabetic Striatopathy
KEYWORDS: movement, pubmed, disorders, movement disorders, hyperglycemia, diabetic, cases, patients, diabetes, free, movements, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, article


, 10 ). Due to the controversial and ambiguous nature of the term "diabetic striatopathy" in literature ( 2 ), we had previously proposed a three-subset classification ( 10 ) (figure- 1). Figure 1. Dubey’s classification schema of Diabetic Striatopathy (Adapted from: Dubey S, Biswas P, Ghosh R, Chatterjee S, Ray BK, Benito-León J. Neuroimaging of Diabetic Striatopathy: More Questions than Answers. Eur Neurol. 2022;85:371-6.). Figure 2. Right striatal hyperintensity on T1 weighted MRI in a 56-yeald-old lady with previously undiagnosed diabetes presented with left hemichorea-hemiballism persisting for 1 week. Blood glucose was 453 mg/dl. Movement disorders abated with management of hyperglycemia with insulin therapy alone. Figure 3. Left striatal hypodensity on non-contrast CT scan in a 68-year-old gentleman with diabetes presented with right hemichorea. Blood glucose was 356 mg/dl and HbA1c was 15.2%. Movement disorder was partially improved with glycemic control and needed haloperidol for complete recovery. TREATMENT AND PROGNOSIS Intensive management of hyperglycemia with insulin remains the pivotal measure to treat movement disorders associated with hyperglycemia ( 1 , 2 ). Some authors have speculated worsening of involuntary movements on aggressive lowering of blood glucose (analogous to diabetic retinopathy) ( 32 - 35 ), but this needs clarification by further reports. According to past studies, from one-fourth to almost half of the patients recover with insulin therapy alone ( 1 , 2 , 16 , 17 ) with a higher recovery rate in ketotic hyperglycemia cases ( 21 ). Additional therapies such as haloperidol, tetrabenazine, risperidone, tiapride (ballism and chorea), levodopa (parkinsonism), trihexyphenidyl, clonazepam (dystonia), pramipexole (restless leg syndrome), propranolol (tremor), carbamazepine (hemifacial spasm) etc. have been used with varying success rates ( 1 , 2 ). Whether the requirement of additional drugs may be attributed to late presentation or diagnostic delay needs further study ( 1 , 2 , 15 , 20 ). Surgical interventions such as pallidotomy, ventrolateral thalamotomy, transcranial magnetic stimulation, and globus pallidus internus deep brain stimulation had been tried for intractable symptoms ( 2 , 36 - 38 ). In the study by Dubey et al ( 1 ), treatment of movement disorders was documented and followed up for at least three weeks. Patients who recovered fully from all involuntary movements within seven days were regarded as early responders, while the rest were taken as late responders. In that series the majority (47.5%) of the patients had early and complete resolution of symptoms,
