Diabetic Striatopathy
KEYWORDS: movement, pubmed, disorders, movement disorders, hyperglycemia, diabetic, cases, patients, diabetes, free, movements, pmc free, article pubmed, pmc, article


days were regarded as early responders, while the rest were taken as late responders. In that series the majority (47.5%) of the patients had early and complete resolution of symptoms, 28.8% responded late but had a complete reversal, while 23.7% cases recovered partially. Interestingly, in Chua et al’s analysis recovery was earlier among patients on glucose-therapy only (2 days) compared to those receiving additional anti-chorea medications (14 days), although median pre-treatment lag period was identical between those two groups (4 days) ( 2 ). Overall, the previous literature showed that recovery rate varied from 76.4% to 100% ( 2 , 14 - 21 ), which could be attributable to heterogeneity in the definition of recovery (clinical and/or neuroradiological) and duration of follow-up employed across different studies. During recovery, as expected, symptomatic improvement precedes abolition of neuroradiological stigmata. Minimum time period for radiological reversal noted in study by Chua et al were 10 days on CT and 60 days on MRI. On follow-up MRI scans progressive increase in striatal hyperintensity to reach its maximum limit was noted at around 90 days, whereas the mean periods of complete radiological reversal were around 60 and 180 days on CT and MRI, respectively. The median duration of discernible changes on CT and MRI were 24 and 120 days respectively ( 2 ). However, it is not at all uncommon to come across cases demonstrating persisting striatal anomalies on follow-up neuroimaging for months irrespective of symptomatic recovery ( 2 , 3 , 39 ). Currently there is paucity of studies which longitudinally evaluate the evolution of radiological changes over the course of disease process. Despite having limited data regarding long-term follow-up, nearly 20% cases of DS clinically recurred even after initial resolution of striatal anomalies., which underscored the importance of periodic neuroradiological surveillance even after initial recovery. Recurrence rate did not differ across different treatment modalities (i.e., with or without additional use of anti-chorea medications) employed ( 2 ). CONCLUSION Acute onset or de novo movement disorder is one of the important neurological complications of DM, most prevalent but not limited to Asian population. Unfortunately, it is still less well-recognized among physicians, diabetologists, and endocrinologists leading to its diagnostic delay and probably poorer prognosis. Although DS and other movement disorders are generally complications of poorly controlled long-standing type 2 diabetes in the non-ketotic hyperglycemia state among elderly, it may be the first presentation of diabetes.
