NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: hepatitis, interferon, therapy, chronic, chronic hepatitis, patients, peginterferon, pubmed, pmid, pubmed pmid, liver, weeks, alt, autoimmune, interferon therapy


to replace peginterferon therapy in chronic hepatitis C. Standard interferon alfa is also approved for use in hairy cell leukemia, malignant melanoma, follicular lymphoma and AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma. Local injections of interferon are used to treat condylomata acuminata. Interferon has many side effects which often limit the dose and duration of therapy. The most common side effects include fatigue, muscle aches, headaches, depression, anxiety, bone marrow suppression and rash. 2 LiverTox Hepatotoxicity Therapy with interferon or peginterferon can be associated with transient and asymptomatic mild-to-moderate serum aminotransferase elevations in up to half of patients. Because the major use of peginterferon is for hepatitis C or in patients with cancer on multiple other medications, serum ALT elevations are often difficult to attribute to the therapy as opposed to the underlying disease. Importantly, however, 1% to 2% of persons receiving alpha interferon for 24 to 48 weeks develop an autoimmune condition, which can be autoimmune hepatitis characterized by development of marked serum aminotransferase activities and jaundice. This side effect usually arises within 1 to 2 months of starting therapy, but can arise later or even after therapy is completed (Case 1). The typical pattern of serum elevations is hepatocellular, and most but not all patients develop or have preexisting autoantibodies such as antinuclear antibody (ANA) or antibody to liver kidney microsomes (anti-LKM) in serum. Instances of primary biliary cirrhosis, sarcoidosis and hepatic granulomas have also been reported after interferon therapy. Finally, interferon therapy of hepatitis B can trigger an acute exacerbation of the hepatitis that is often associated with clearance of HBV DNA and HBeAg and may actually be a favorable prognostic sign suggesting a sustained response (Case 2). Likelihood score: A (well known cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Injury Interferon has diverse effects on multiple cell types. The autoimmune hepatitis-like syndrome that has been attributed to interferon therapy appears to occur in patients who are predisposed to autoimmune diseases, and is probably due to the immunomodulatory effects of alpha interferon in increasing cell surface display of HLA antigens and in affecting CD4 and CD8+ T cell activity. Alpha interferon therapy can cause an acute exacerbation of autoimmune disease and some instances of an acute hepatitis-like syndrome developing on interferon therapy may represent an exacerbation of autoimmune hepatitis that coexisted with or was mistaken for chronic hepatitis B or C. Outcome and Management The serum aminotransferase abnormalities that arise
