NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: hepatitis, interferon, therapy, chronic, chronic hepatitis, patients, peginterferon, pubmed, pmid, pubmed pmid, liver, weeks, alt, autoimmune, interferon therapy


interferon therapy may represent an exacerbation of autoimmune hepatitis that coexisted with or was mistaken for chronic hepatitis B or C. Outcome and Management The serum aminotransferase abnormalities that arise during interferon therapy are usually asymptomatic and self-limited and rarely require dose modification. In contrast, the autoimmune hepatitis-like syndrome induced by interferon calls for prompt discontinuation of therapy. In most instances, the condition improves or resolves with stopping therapy, but instances of self-perpetuating autoimmune hepatic diseases (sarcoidosis, autoimmune hepatitis, primary biliary cirrhosis) have been reported. Patients with autoimmune hepatitis due to interferon may require corticosteroid or immunosuppressive therapy, which appears to ameliorate the course of injury and may be required long term. Several cases of acute liver failure and cases of chronic autoimmune hepatitis triggered by interferon therapy have been reported, but treatment has not been associated with chronic vanishing bile duct syndrome. Related biological agents include beta interferon, gamma interferon, interleukin 2. Agents active against hepatitis C include alpha interferon, peginterferon, boceprevir, ribavirin, simeprevir, sofosbuvir, telaprevir. Drug Class: Antiviral Agents, Hepatitis C Agents Alpha Interferon 3 CASE REPORTS Case 1. Induction of autoimmune hepatitis by a course of peginterferon and ribavirin for chronic hepatitis C. [NIH Patient #P40] A 52 year old woman with chronic hepatitis C developed sudden worsening of disease and jaundice 4 weeks after starting peginterferon therapy. She was known to have chronic hepatitis C for 12 years when she was found to have elevations in serum aminotransferase levels and antibody to hepatitis C in serum. She was largely asymptomatic and had no other medical problems. The source of hepatitis C was believed to be blood transfusions after Caesarian section 25 years previously. She had mild chronic hepatitis on liver biopsy and portal fibrosis (2+ fibrosis on a scale of 0 to 6+). HCV RNA levels ranged from 1 to 2 million IU/mL and HCV genotype was 1b. She was started on peginterferon alfa-2a in a dose of 180 µg weekly and ribavirin (1200 mg daily) was added 4 weeks later. With therapy, her serum levels of HCV RNA fell rapidly (Table). Serum aminotransferase levels, however, started to rise and were above 1000 U/L by week four. By week five she was jaundiced and both peginterferon and ribavirin were stopped. Serum ANA was negative, but SMA was weakly positive (1:40) and anti-LKM was present. IgM anti-HAV, HBsAg, anti-HBc and anti-HDV were negative. Ultrasound showed no evidence
