Medications for Arrhythmias
KEYWORDS: class, drugs, ventricular, class drugs, atrial, effects, used, heart, conduction, rate, antiarrhythmic, antiarrhythmic drugs, torsades, fibrillation, slow


The decision to treat an arrhythmia depends on its symptoms and its potential severity. Treatment is directed at causes. If necessary, direct antiarrhythmic therapy, including antiarrhythmic drugs, cardioversion-defibrillation, implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs), pacemakers (and a special form of pacing, cardiac resynchronization therapy), catheter ablation, surgery, or a combination, is used. Most antiarrhythmic drugs are grouped into 4 main classes (Vaughan Williams classification) based on their dominant cellular electrophysiologic effect, with subsequent updates to the classification system for newer medications (see table Antiarrhythmic Drugs (Vaughan Williams Classification)) (1, 2). Class I: Class I drugs are sodium channel blockers (membrane-stabilizing drugs) that block fast sodium channels and slow conduction in fast-channel tissues (working atrial and ventricular myocytes, His-Purkinje system). Class I drugs are subdivided into subclasses Ia, Ib, and Ic. Class II: Class II drugs are beta-blockers, which affect predominantly slow-channel tissues (sinoatrial [SA] and atrioventricular [AV] nodes), where they decrease rate of automaticity, slow conduction velocity, and prolong refractoriness. Class III: Class III drugs are primarily potassium channel blockers, which prolong action potential duration and refractoriness in slow- and fast-channel tissues. Class IV: Class IV drugs are the nondihydropyridine calcium channel blockers, which depress calcium-dependent action potentials in slow-channel tissues and thus decrease the rate of automaticity, slow conduction velocity, and prolong refractoriness. Digoxin, adenosine, and ivabradine were not included in the original Vaughan Williams classification. The original Vaughan Williams classification system for antiarrhythmic drugs has been extended (2) to include these and other antiarrhythmic drugs introduced since the original classification (eg, amiodarone, sotalol, flecainide). Digoxin shortens atrial and ventricular refractory periods and is vagotonic, thereby prolonging AV nodal conduction and AV nodal refractory periods. Adenosine slows or blocks AV nodal conduction and can terminate tachyarrhythmias that rely upon AV nodal conduction for their perpetuation. Ivabradine inhibits the SA node funny current and slows SA node rate. TABLE Antiarrhythmic Drugs (Vaughan Williams Classification) Selected Adverse Drug Comments Effects Class Ia Uses: APB and VPB suppression, SVT and VT suppression, AF or atrial flutter, and VF suppression Use cautiously with impaired LV function or renal insufficiency Anticholinergic effects Adverse effects may (urinary retention, contribute to glaucoma, dry mouth, nonadherence Disopyramide blurred vision, intestinal Decrease infusion rate or upset), hypoglycemia, dosage or stop medication torsades de pointes VT, if QRS interval widens negative inotropic effects excessively † IV form not available in the United States Sustained-release preparations available Hypotension (with IV infusion), positive anti-
