Medications for Arrhythmias
KEYWORDS: class, drugs, ventricular, class drugs, atrial, effects, used, heart, conduction, rate, antiarrhythmic, antiarrhythmic drugs, torsades, fibrillation, slow


are used for suppression of Atrial fibrillation Atrial flutter Atrial premature beats Supraventricular tachycardia Ventricular fibrillation Ventricular premature beats Ventricular tachycardias Class II Antiarrhythmic Drugs Class II antiarrhythmic drugs are the Beta-blockers Beta-blockers affect predominantly slow-channel tissues (sinoatrial and atrioventricular nodes), where they decrease rate of automaticity, slow conduction velocity, and prolong refractoriness. Thus, heart rate is slowed, the PR interval is lengthened, and the AV node transmits rapid atrial depolarizations at a lower frequency. Class II drugs are used primarily to treat supraventricular tachycardias, including sinus tachycardia, and to slow the ventricular response rates to atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter. These drugs are also used to treat ventricular tachycardia to raise the threshold for ventricular fibrillation and reduce the ventricular proarrhythmic effects of beta-adrenoceptor stimulation. Beta-blockers are generally well tolerated; adverse effects include lassitude, sleep disturbance, and gastrointestinal upset. These medications are contraindicated in patients with asthma. Class III Antiarrhythmic Drugs Class III drugs are Membrane-stabilizing drugs, primarily potassium channel blockers Class III drugs prolong action potential duration and refractoriness in slow- and fast-channel tissues. Thus, the capacity of all cardiac tissues to transmit impulses at high frequencies is reduced, but conduction velocity is not significantly affected. Because the action potential is prolonged, rate of automaticity is reduced. The predominant effect on the ECG is QT-interval prolongation. These medications are used to treat supraventricular and ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Class III drugs have a risk of ventricular proarrhythmia, particularly torsades de pointes VT, and are not used in patients with torsades de pointes VT. Class IV Antiarrhythmic Drugs Class IV drugs are Nondihydropyridine calcium channel blockers These medications depress calcium-dependent action potentials in slow-channel tissues and thus decrease the rate of automaticity, slow conduction velocity, and prolong refractoriness. Heart rate is slowed, the PR interval is lengthened, and the AV node transmits rapid atrial depolarizations at a lower frequency. These medications are used primarily to treat supraventricular tachycardias. They may also be used to slow the ventricular response rate to atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter. One form of VT (left septal, Belhassen, or fascicular VT) can be treated with verapamil.
