Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


prolactin. Approximately 70% circulates as a 22 kD protein, 10% as a 20 kD isoform and the remainder as dimers or sulphated and glycosylated isoforms ( Figure 1 ). Growth hormone secretion occurs in pulsatile bursts, numbering between 4 and 11 in 24 hours, especially at night, with extremely low or undetectable levels occurring in the nadir between pulses. Thus, a random single serum measurement is very limited as a means of assessing the overall level of secretion. Secretion of growth hormone is governed by both secretory and inhibitory hypothalamic factors. GHRH (growth hormone releasing hormone), ghrelin, and klotho act to stimulate release ( 9 ), whereas hypothalamic somatostatin (a 14 amino acid peptide) exerts marked inhibitory effects on GH release. Cortistatin has been found to exert dual, stimulatory and inhibitory effects on GH secretion ( 10 ). These stimulatory and inhibitory factors are subject not only to higher influences within the brain but also to peripheral signals such that the overall secretion of growth hormone can vary widely under different physiological and pathological conditions ( 11 ) . These are summarized in Table 1 . Table 1. Factors Affecting Growth Hormone Secretion ( 12 ) View in own window PHYSIOLOGICAL PATHOLOGICAL Factors which increase GH secretion Factors which reduce GH levels Factors which increase GH secretion Factors which reduce GH levels Sleep Overeating Acute glucocorticoid excess Chronic excess Cortisol/ glucocorticoids Fasting Obesity Type 1 DM Hyperthyroidism Stress Aging Renal failure Type 2 DM Exercise Increased IGF-1 Acute use of opioids Hypoglycemia Anorexia Dopamine Depression Increased Amino acids i.e., high protein meal Cirrhosis Reduced Free Fatty acids Glucagon Testosterone and estradiol Figure 1. The 2-D structure of human growth hormone. Growth hormone circulates in blood bound to a specific binding protein, called GH binding-protein (GHBP). This protein comprises the extracellular portion of the growth hormone receptor (GHR), which is widely distributed and present in most tissues. Activation of the growth hormone receptor occurs when the growth hormone molecule binds two adjacent receptors resulting in dimerization of the growth hormone receptors. Dimerization of the growth hormone receptor results in its activation and binding of the intracellular Janus kinase (Jak 2) tyrosine kinase. The activated JAK2-GHR complex induces multiple signaling pathways responsible for the diverse actions of GH ( 13 , 14 ). These include phosphorylation of a) signal transduction and activators of transcription (STAT) proteins STAT1, STAT3 and most importantly STAT
