Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


for the diverse actions of GH ( 13 , 14 ). These include phosphorylation of a) signal transduction and activators of transcription (STAT) proteins STAT1, STAT3 and most importantly STAT 5, b) SRC family kinases which trigger the MAP kinase pathway, c) insulin receptor substrate (IRS) proteins which activate phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K) and Akt pathway, and d) SH2B1, a scaffold protein that upregulates GH action in the actin cytoskeleton ( 13 ). Intracellular growth hormone signaling is suppressed by several proteins, especially the suppressors of cytokine signaling (SOCS) 1-3 and protein tyrosine phosphatases SHP1, SHP2 ( 14 , 15 ). While there have been suggestions that GHR polymorphism could play a role in variable responses to the GHR antagonist Pegvisomant therapy, so far studies have not convincingly demonstrated this relationship ( 16 ). Figure 2. The growth hormone molecule binding to the membrane surface growth hormone receptor. Signaling and transduction only occur when adjacent receptors bind the two specific binding sites on the growth hormone moiety to form a dimer. One of the major proteins induced by growth hormone is insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1)-Although classical endocrinology states that it is hepatic derived IGF-1 acting in an endocrine manner that is responsible for most, if not all, of the effects of growth hormone, it is becoming increasingly clear that local production of IGF-1 acting either in a paracrine (nearby cells) or autocrine (on the same cell) manner also has important biological effects, predominant of which is stimulating cell proliferation and inhibiting apoptosis ( 17 ). Elegant gene 'knock-out' experiments have demonstrated that animals with selective hepatic IGF-1 loss have a normal phenotype and growth, despite marked reduction in serum IGF-1 levels ( 18 ). Furthermore, patients with severe GH deficiency, perhaps as a result of pituitary surgery, usually have serum IGF-1 levels just below or at the lower end of the normal range. Thus, rather than being the sole effector of growth hormone, serum IGF-1 should perhaps be more accurately regarded as a marker of serum growth hormone concentrations. Circulating IGF-1 does however have important effects in regulating pulsatile growth hormone secretion with IGF-1 acting in a negative feedback fashion suppressing growth hormone release. Central Regulation of GH Secretion GHRH consists of 44 amino acids, the first 27 from the N-terminus being essential for physiological activity ( 19 ). GHRH containing neurons are located in the arcuate nucleus and surrounding the venteromedial
