Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


44 amino acids, the first 27 from the N-terminus being essential for physiological activity ( 19 ). GHRH containing neurons are located in the arcuate nucleus and surrounding the venteromedial nucleus which is considered the major site of GHRH activity. Somatostatin producing neurons are predominantly present in the dorsolateral arcuate nucleus and share close synaptic connections with the GHRH neurons ( 20 ). While these two hormones form the key components of local autocrine short feedback regulation of GH secretion; it is further modulated by interactions with central neuropeptides. Dopamine, serotonin, norepinephrine, neuropeptide Y regulate GH output through their interactions with GHRH and Somatostatin neurons ( 20 ). GH exerts its own local negative feedback along with local IGF-1 feedback. The Neuropeptide Y system contributes to the rise in circulating GH seen in the fasting state ( 21 ). A long negative feedback also exists and growth hormone induces hepatic secretion of IGF-1, which in turn inhibits growth hormone release through various mechanisms including modulating GH gene transcription, reducing GH mRNA expression through POUF1 /CREB protein interactions and altering somatostatin release through paracrine activity ( 20 , 22 , 23 ). Ghrelin and Growth Hormone Secretion GH pulsatility is primarily driven by nutritional status. The potent growth hormone stimulating action of ghrelin is now well established. Ghrelin was identified as a natural ligand responsible for regulating GH secretion in the acylated form ( 24 ). It is a 28 amino acid peptide, which is modified by Ghrelin-O-Acyl-transferase (GOAT) enzyme to mediate its GH secretory action through IP3 signaling pathway ( 25 ). Expression of ghrelin is found in many tissues including both the gastrointestinal tract and the CNS, with the strongest concentrations located in the stomach. Ghrelin mediates its orexigenic actions through the vagal nerve stimulation and eventually acting on the hypothalamic appetite center though the noradrenergic pathway ( 26 ). Gastric expression of ghrelin is reduced following feeding and increased by fasting, hypoglycemia and after leptin administration. On other hand, leptin seems to variably effect GH secretion depending on the nutritional status. The exact mechanisms of leptin driven GH changes are not well understood ( 27 ). Figure 3. The growth hormone/ insulin-like growth factor-I axis. Peripheral Regulation of GH Secretion Systemic energy homeostasis is a potent influence on GH secretion, with interactions by glucose, free fatty acids, adipokines, leptin, ghrelin, and insulin ( 28 - 30 ). Several
