Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


GH Secretion Systemic energy homeostasis is a potent influence on GH secretion, with interactions by glucose, free fatty acids, adipokines, leptin, ghrelin, and insulin ( 28 - 30 ). Several hormone systems have regulatory effects on growth hormone secretion. Hypothyroidism is associated with low levels of both growth hormone and IGF-1, and in children leads to short stature ( 31 ). Thyroxine replacement has been shown to reverse these deficits. Further evidence from studies in rodents indicates that growth hormone gene expression is regulated by thyroid hormone acting through a thyroid hormone responsive element in the promoter region of the growth hormone gene ( 32 , 33 ). GH replacement has been shown to reduce the Free T4 levels and increase Free T3 levels, by the effect on type 2 iodothyronine deiodinase ( 34 ). Glucocorticoids are inhibitors of somatic growth both in humans and experimental animals and individuals with either Cushing’s syndrome or taking exogenous corticosteroids have been shown to have reduced growth hormone secretion. Gonadal hormones also play a role in the neuroregulation of growth hormone secretion. In both sexes spontaneous growth hormone secretion is increased during puberty, and reduced in those with delayed puberty ( 35 ), suggesting that both estrogen and testosterone influence growth hormone secretion. The estrogen related reduction of IGF-1 seems to be responsible for relatively higher GH levels in females compared to men, with similar IGF-1 levels ( 36 , 37 ). Hypoglycemia is a potent inducer of growth hormone secretion, and insulin induced hypoglycemia remains the most employed provocative test of growth hormone reserve in humans. Hypoglycemia reduces hypothalamic somatostatin secretion facilitating growth hormone release. A delayed rise in GH levels is noted after acute hyperglycemia and is likely a result of GHRH rise ( 38 ) In contrast, hyperglycemia suppresses growth hormone secretion from the healthy pituitary. The availability of amino acids as in the post-prandial state stimulates growth hormone secretion whilst elevated non-esterified fatty acid levels suppress growth hormone release. IGF-1: Structure and Function IGF-1 is a single chain polypeptide of 70 amino acids with three intrachain disulphide bridges, coded by a gene situated on the long arm of chromosome ( 39 ). It has 48% amino acid sequence homology to pro-insulin, the A and B domains of IGF-1 have 60-70% homology but there is no homology with the C domain. IGF-1 has a specific receptor, which is structurally and
