Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


to pro-insulin, the A and B domains of IGF-1 have 60-70% homology but there is no homology with the C domain. IGF-1 has a specific receptor, which is structurally and functionally very similar to the insulin receptor. It consists of two extracellular α-subunits which are the hormone binding sites and two transmembrane β-subunits which are involved in initiating intracellular signaling. Post-receptor signaling mechanisms are also similar for IGF-1 and insulin receptors, both activating the tyrosine kinase and IRS-1 cascades. IGF-1 can bind to the insulin receptor but with only 1-5% affinity compared to insulin. Under normal physiological conditions it is thought that IGF-1 acts via the specific IGF-1 receptor, but in the presence of high concentrations of IGF-1 there is likely to be cross activation with the insulin receptor. IGF-1 receptors are found on most tissues with the notable exceptions of liver and adipose tissue. Hybrid IGF-1/insulin receptors have now been well documented and sequenced but their role is unclear ( 40 ). The majority of circulating IGF-1 is produced by the liver with bone, adipose tissue, kidney, muscle and many other tissues producing a smaller quantity. Plasma concentrations of IGF-1 in the human are regulated by growth hormone, insulin, age, and nutritional state. Bioavailability of IGF-1 is determined by its binding proteins (see below). Growth hormone and insulin are the main regulators of hepatic IGF-1 production. The precise regulation of local IGF-1 synthesis is uncertain, but it is influenced by many other trophic hormones such as ACTH, fibroblast growth factor, and TSH ( 41 ). Figure 4. The regulation of growth hormone secretion. IGF Binding Proteins (IGFBPs) Unlike insulin the majority of IGF-1 circulates in plasma bound to a variety of binding proteins which determine its bioavailability and modulate its biological action ( 42 ). The majority of IGF-1 is bound in a 150 KDa complex with IGFBP-3 and form an acid labile subunit ALS ( 42 ). This large molecule (termed the ternary complex) is unable to pass through endothelium and acts as an intravascular reservoir of inactive IGF-1. The half-life of IGF-1 in the complex with IGFBP-3 and ALS is 12-15 hours compared with 10-12 minutes for free IGF-1. The exact mechanisms by which IGF-1 is released from the ternary complex to allow access into the tissues is not known; however, IGFBP degrading protease activity has been well documented in many biological fluids and clinical states. Current
