Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


from the ternary complex to allow access into the tissues is not known; however, IGFBP degrading protease activity has been well documented in many biological fluids and clinical states. Current knowledge suggests that IGFBP-1 and IGFBP-3/ALS are the binding proteins which have the major effects on the bioavailability of IGF-1( 40 ). IGFBP-1 is inversely related to insulin levels, has a circadian variation with the highest levels being found overnight when insulin levels are lowest, and inhibits the hypoglycemic action of IGF-1 ( 43 ). Growth hormone secretory status is the main regulator of plasma levels of ALS ( 42 ). PATHOLOGY OF ACROMEGALY Acromegaly is most commonly the result of pituitary adenoma and rarely due to non-pituitary neuroendocrine tumor/ neoplasia (NET/ NEN). Pituitary tumors are commonly monohormonal or plurihormonal in nature with further distinct subtypes. These subtypes of tumors are responsible for their characteristic behavior and can sometimes guide management ( 44 ). The common subtypes are discussed below. 1. Monohormonal densely granulated somatotroph adenomas are the most common type of GH-secreting pituitary tumors. They have predominance of the large, dense secretory granules which contain GH and appear deeply eosinophilic on staining. They account for 30-40% tumors and while tend to lead to higher GH levels, they are usually slow growing tumors, in older patients with mild disease, and retain a predictable response to SSA therapy. Somatic mutation in Gs-α subunit of GNAS has found to be the most common abnormality in GH secreting tumors leading to increased cAMP activity ( 45 ). 2. Sparsely granulated somatotroph adenomas form the second most common type of tumor. As the name suggests, they are lightly eosinophilic on HE staining due to the increased presence of keratin aggregates and reduced GH containing granules. While they present with lower GH levels, the tumor behavior is relatively aggressive. They tend to be larger, more invasive with higher ki67 proliferation indices and are less responsive to SSA therapy. Further studies suggest reduced expression of E cadherin and SSTR2 in sparsely granulated tumors as factors likely to be responsible for poor response to SSA ( 44 ). 3. Mammosomatotroph adenoma from a monohormonal Pit-1 lineage cells is a common pathology found in younger individuals with acromegaly. They are densely granulated and co-stain for GH and PRL. They behave in a more benign fashion with high GH and PRL levels leading to early presentation, when the tumor
