Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


They are densely granulated and co-stain for GH and PRL. They behave in a more benign fashion with high GH and PRL levels leading to early presentation, when the tumor is smaller at diagnosis. They respond to SSA therapy similarly to densely granulated tumors ( 46 ). 4. Mixed somatotroph and lactotroph tumors are formed of bihormonal cells with variable combination of somatrotroph and lactotrophs. In variable combinations they comprise of sparsely granulated and densely granulated cells all of which express Pit 1. They tend to be less amenable to treatment and are reported to have frequent disease recurrence ( 47 ). 5. Mature Plurihormomal Pit1-Lineage tumors frequently immunostain for TSH along with GH, PRL and are found to express GATA3 ( 48 ). Clinical presentation includes features of thyroid overactivity with thyrotoxicosis with non-suppressed TSH. 6. Acidophil stem cell adenomata are tumors comprising of immature GH and PRL secreting tumor cells of a single precursor. The histology shows chromophobic or slightly acidophilic cells, with abundant granular cytoplasm of oncocytic distribution ( 44 ). Patients present with hyperprolactinemia which is disproportionate to the size of the tumor. They are frequently invasive and less responsive to dopamine agonist therapy. 7. Poorly differentiated Pit-1 lineage tumors comprise of tumor cells with strong expression of Pit-1 and variable expression of estrogen and GATA3. They are polyglonal and spindle shaped poorly differentiated cells which stain variably for GH, PRL, TSH, and alpha subunit. They are usually macroadenomas, with invasion of surrounding structures and high risk of recurrence ( 46 ). 8. Pituitary carcinomas are very rare and form less than 1% of cases. They are difficult to distinguish clinically, and diagnosis is confirmed with evidence of distant metastasis and high ki67 index (e.g., >10%) on histology. These tumors frequently require multi-modal therapy, including chemotherapy, temozolamide and radiation ( 44 ). 9. Pituitary hyperplasia is suspected radiologically when there is a uniformly enlarged pituitary gland with no distinct focus of gadolinium enhancement. Hyperplasia is confirmed on histology when the pathology shows expanded pituitary acini containing all of the adenohypophysial cell types, but with increased numbers of somatotrophs and/or mammosomatotrophs ( 46 ). The histological diagnosis should prompt the clinician to explore for a GHRH secreting tumor elsewhere or consider investigations for specific genetic conditions associated with acromegaly (highlighted in table 4 ) such as MEN1, Carney Complex, and McCune Albright Syndrome ( 49 ). Non-pituitary
