Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


tumor elsewhere or consider investigations for specific genetic conditions associated with acromegaly (highlighted in table 4 ) such as MEN1, Carney Complex, and McCune Albright Syndrome ( 49 ). Non-pituitary sources of disease include GHRH or GH secreting central and peripheral tumors. Hypothalamic tumors such as hamartomas, choristomas, gliomas, and gangliocytomas producing GHRH result in pituitary hyperplasia and very often the diagnosis remains elusive until patient has undergone pituitary surgery. Carcinoid tumors secreting GHRH are recognized as rare peripheral cause of acromegaly and usually are bronchial in origin ( 50 ). An ectopic location of pituitary adenomas has been reported in the tract of dorsal migration of the adenohypophysial cells. While a significant number of peripheral tissues have been found to secrete GH ( 51 ), reports of GH secreting peripheral tumors include lung, pancreatic and adrenal tumors. Table 2. Pathology Associated with Acromegaly ( 44 , 52 - 54 ) View in own window Pituitary adenoma Densely granulated somatotroph adenoma Sparsely granulated somatotroph adenoma Mixed cell somatotroph and lactrotroph adenoma Mammosomatrotroph (monohormonal Pit-1 lineage) adenoma Acidophil stem cell adenoma Plurihormonal adenoma Poorly differentiated Pit-1lineage tumor Pituitary hyperplasia Pituitary carcinoma Rare: ectopic pituitary adenomas identified in sphenoid sinus or parapharyngeal tissue Ectopic hormone secretion Central: Hypothalamic tumors Ganglioneuroma Peripheral: Bronchial carcinoid, small cell lung cancer, adrenal tumor, pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor Exogenous GH replacement or abuse Pseudoacromegaly Pachydermoperiostosis IGF signaling pathway diseases Severe insulin resistance CLINICAL FEATURES OF ACROMEGALY The clinical manifestations of acromegaly evolve gradually over a long time and as a consequence there is a lag time of about 5-10 years, from symptom onset to diagnosis ( 55 , 56 ). In the recent decades, there seems to be some early recognition of the condition, particular in individuals investigated for pituitary ‘incidentaloma’, for example with hypogonadism as a presenting feature ( 57 ). One third of the cases, have co-existent symptoms of hyperprolactinemia, which aids in early diagnosis ( 58 ). Tumor Related Growth hormone secreting pituitary adenomas are frequently (more than 70%) large tumors (macroadenoma, ≥ 10 mm in diameter) which may present with local mass effects such as headache (often severe and out of proportion to the size of the pituitary tumor), hydrocephalus, visual field defects, ophthalmoplegia, or other cranial nerve palsies ( 59 ). As the lesion increases in size deficiencies of other anterior pituitary hormones may also occur. Microadenomas (< 10 mm in diameter) are
