Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


or other cranial nerve palsies ( 59 ). As the lesion increases in size deficiencies of other anterior pituitary hormones may also occur. Microadenomas (< 10 mm in diameter) are conventionally thought to be less common, but tend to represent one third of the cases ( 60 , 61 ). However patients presenting with pituitary tumors, without clear features of acromegaly may have elevated IGF-1, and GH positive immunohistochemistry on the resected tumor specimen ( 62 ) and such silent growth hormone tumors seem to be more common in females with a higher risk of recurrence ( 63 ). The term micromegaly is used to describe such clinical presentations ( 64 , 65 ). Recognition of such presentations should prompt the endocrine specialist to consider GH secreting tumors in all presentations, but especially in the younger patient with pituitary tumor. Hypopituitarism has been found to occur in about 40% cases with variable frequency of hypogonadism, adrenal insufficiency, and secondary hypothyroidism ( 66 , 67 ). Hypogonadism, presenting as decreased libido, infertility or oligo/amenorrhea is a common finding at presentation; it may be due to both gonadotrophin deficiency as well as hyperprolactinemia, either from coexistent excessive secretion of prolactin or from stalk compression. Hypogonadism has been reported even in patients with microadenomas with normal prolactin, thereby suggesting an independent effect of GH hypersecretion ( 68 ). Menstrual irregularities, PCOS, subfertility and erectile dysfunction can occur as a consequence of GH excess ( 69 , 70 ). The occurrence of diabetes insipidus in relation to a pituitary adenoma is extremely rare and should raise the possibility of an invasive pathology ( 71 , 72 ). Soft Tissue and Skeletal Changes The most characteristic feature and one that usually precipitates the diagnosis is a change in appearance as a consequence of soft tissue and bony changes. The common changes include coarsening of the facial features, broadening of the nose, thickening of the lips, macroglossia, and prominence of the supraorbital ridges. There is enlargement of the hands resulting in their characteristic 'spade-like' appearance and soft dough-like consistency of the palms. Ring size increases; a sensitive objective assessment of disease activity and response to treatment. Similar changes occur in the feet which become wider with increase in shoe size. Elongation of the jaw results in prognathism which contributes to dental malocclusion, interdental separation, and temporomandibular joint pain ( 73 , 74 ). Greasiness of the
