Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


increase in shoe size. Elongation of the jaw results in prognathism which contributes to dental malocclusion, interdental separation, and temporomandibular joint pain ( 73 , 74 ). Greasiness of the skin is a frequent finding with excessive sweating, one of the most sensitive signs of growth hormone excess. Skin tags are a frequent finding, likely related to epithelial cell hyperproliferation in response to IGF-1 ( 74 ). Additional dermatological manifestations include hypertrichosis, psoriasis, acanthosis nigricans, and cutis verticis gyrata, with the latter two seen more commonly in severe cases ( 75 ). Skin changes are a result of deposition of glycosaminoglycans in the subcutaneous tissue, along with increased proliferation of dermal fibroblasts as a consequence of GH and IGF-1 action ( 74 ). These changes tend to reverse after treatment, at least partially if not completely. The lean body mass is higher in individuals with acromegaly, while there is increase in adipose tissue post therapeutic intervention ( 76 ). This reversal of body composition tends to stabilize by three months of the surgery ( 77 ). In addition to the negative impact on body fat, reversal of GH excess has been found to increase intrahepatic lipid accumulation ( 78 ). Generalized organomegaly is not well reported with acromegaly, in contrast some earlier assumptions of the disease process but enlargement of thyroid, prostate, salivary glands, heart, liver and spleen has been recognized ( 79 ). Macroglossia, increased thickness of laryngeal structures and vocal cord enlargement increases the risk of anesthesia and makes intubation difficult ( 80 ). Ultrasound evidence suggests the presence of increased organ stiffness and commonly reported features include renal cysts, thyroid nodules, multinodular goiter, gallbladder polyps, and polycystic ovaries ( 79 ). Mucosal edema and hypertrophy of vocal cord can result in voice changes, but true existence of voice abnormalities is debated ( 81 , 82 ). Patient reported questionnaire and evaluation of voice parameters seem to demonstrate presence of micro perturbations, lower amplitude and poor quality of voice in individuals with active disease ( 82 , 83 ). The skeletal manifestations of acromegaly result from multiple factors which include direct effect of GH, IGF-1, altered calcium phosphate metabolism, hypogonadism, diabetes, and over replacement of steroids ( 84 , 85 ). Acromegaly results in increased bone resorption and altered bone formation according to various cross-sectional studies, but the effect of GH, IGF-1 on bone health is complex. GH
