Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


, 85 ). Acromegaly results in increased bone resorption and altered bone formation according to various cross-sectional studies, but the effect of GH, IGF-1 on bone health is complex. GH mediates its effect on bone through systemic IGF-1 with action on cortical bone, whereas bone IGF-1 seems to be responsible for cancellous bone health. There is emerging evidence of correlation of sclerostin levels with acromegaly related bone disease ( 86 ). The high prevalence of vertebral fractures (VF) in active acromegaly has been known for a long time with some studies reporting incidence as high as 60%, and dependent on the duration of disease and gender (males>females) ( 84 , 87 ). In a French study, authors have suggested that the skeletal abnormalities are more likely vertebral deformities than true fractures ( 88 ). Screening for VF is recommended in all patients with active acromegaly as it has a significant impact on quality of life, morbidity, and development of cardiac and pulmonary complications ( 85 , 89 ). Standard DXA seems to be less reliable in predicting the risk and Volumetric DXA with quantitative assessment of the trabecular bone density seems to provide more reliable information of acromegaly related bone disease ( 87 , 90 ). Unfortunately it is difficult to undertake this test routinely and therefore alternative use of newer methods such as non-invasive 3D-SHAPER and TBS Trabecular bone score assessments may be considered ( 90 ). While vertebral changes are most discussed, consequences of acromegaly include development degenerative diseases in all weight bearing and non- weight bearing joints, predominantly shoulder, hip and knees ( 84 , 91 ). The prevalence of radiographic evidence of at least one joint involvement has been found to be as high as 99% ( 92 ). Patients with active disease seem to be have higher prevalence of reduced cortical density at hip compared to patients with non-functioning pituitary adenomas ( 93 ). Degenerative joint changes in early acromegaly related arthropathy appear different from usual osteoarthritis, and are noted as widened joint spaces contributed by cartilage hypertrophy and marked osteophytosis, in contrast to standard OA ( 94 ). Acromegaly related arthropathy is associated with a significant impact on quality of life and tends to progress despite improvement in disease status ( 89 ). Routine use of anti-resorptive therapy is currently not well established, but considering the wider implications of the disease on bone health
