Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


progress despite improvement in disease status ( 89 ). Routine use of anti-resorptive therapy is currently not well established, but considering the wider implications of the disease on bone health in active disease, it seems reasonable to consider offering bone protective therapy in patients with early evidence of bone disease ( 90 ). Figure 5. The typical facial appearance of acromegaly. Evolution of the appearances over 2 decades Sleep Disordered Breathing Sleep apnea syndrome (SAS) is a well-recognized manifestation of GH excess and seems to have been variably reported with incidences of 40-80% and about 11.7-20 times higher prevalence than in general population ( 55 , 95 ). Evaluation of the bony changes in the facial skeleton showed significant differences in patients with acromegaly and SAS, compared to patients without SAS. But soft tissue enlargement of upper airways contribute more to the narrowing of the pharyngeal airway space than the craniofacial skeleton changes ( 95 ). CT and MRI assessment of upper airways demonstrate pharyngeal hypertrophy and upper airway stenosis correlating with the severity of obstructive sleep apnea ( 96 ). Patients with SAS have been found to have more features consistent with metabolic syndrome, such as hypertension and DM compared to patients without SAS ( 97 ). Improvement in SAS noted after intervention seems to correlate with positive changes in tongue volume and pharyngeal soft tissue ( 98 ). Unfortunately, complete reversal of SAS does not occur and persistent SAS is seen in about 40% of treated cases. It is likely due to effect of additional factors on SAS such as age, male gender, smoking, and obesity ( 84 ). A direct inhibitory effect of GH on central respiratory center can result in a non-obstructive central pattern of sleep apnea ( 99 ). This phenomenon seems to be much less prevalent than obstructive disease, while a mixed pattern has also been reported ( 100 ). Muscular Changes Musculoskeletal pain is typically progressively evident during the disease course, with close to 90% patients reporting pain as a dominant symptom ( 101 ). Irrespective of the severity of the acromegaly, pain contributes significantly to reduced quality of life ( 101 ). Studies demonstrate that GH excess leads to hypertrophy of the type 1 muscle fibers with variable findings for type 2 fibers ( 102 - 104 ). The predominant abnormality of type 1 muscle fibers strength seems to be responsible for
