Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


type 1 muscle fibers with variable findings for type 2 fibers ( 102 - 104 ). The predominant abnormality of type 1 muscle fibers strength seems to be responsible for evident muscle weakness noted in high velocity activities ( 105 ). While earlier studies consistently reported muscle weakness in acromegaly, a recent study used quantitative measures suggest patients with active acromegaly may have higher proximal muscle strength, but reduced hand grip which normalizes after treatment ( 103 ). It is postulated that the difference in findings could be related to pain interfering with true assessment of muscle function ( 103 ). Ultrasound evidence showed increased tendon thickness, enthesisitis, soft tissue enlargement but reduced muscle volume in some lower limb muscles in a cohort of thirty nine patients ( 106 ). There is emerging evidence that acromegaly has a complex effect on muscle strength and volume ( 107 ). Differential interactions of GH, Muscle Ring Factor -1 (MuRF-1), and myostatin seem to be responsible for chronic effects of GH excess on skeletal muscles ( 108 ). Neurological Abnormalities Carpal tunnel syndrome is present in approximately 60% of patients at diagnosis but about 80% will have electrophysiological evidence of median nerve neuropathy ( 109 ). The pathophysiology is due to swelling of the median nerve itself within the carpal tunnel rather than extrinsic compression from increased volume of the carpal tunnel contents ( 110 ). This is well evident on MRI and Ultrasound studies of the median nerve, and seems to correlate with the abnormal nerve conduction studies ( 110 - 112 ). Similar peripheral nerve abnormalities and abnormal nerve conduction studies have been noted in other peripheral nerves including peroneal, tibial, ulnar, sural nerves ( 112 , 113 ) and polyneuropathy is more common in uncontrolled disease ( 114 ). Unfortunately it seems some of the changes are not completely reversible, despite normalization of disease markers ( 115 ). Patients with active acromegaly have altered cardiac autonomic function, which contributes to the cardiovascular risk ( 116 , 117 ). This seems to respond to active intervention ( 118 ). There is not much evidence of central nervous involvement related to the disease ( 113 ), with some report of delayed brainstem auditory evoked potentials ( 119 ). Restless leg syndrome has been reported to be present in 20% of cases and negatively impacts the quality of life ( 120 ). Cardiac
