Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


auditory evoked potentials ( 119 ). Restless leg syndrome has been reported to be present in 20% of cases and negatively impacts the quality of life ( 120 ). Cardiac Complications Cardiovascular diseases continue to remain one of the most common causes of morbidity in patients with acromegaly and account for 60% of the mortality with this condition ( 121 , 122 ). The range of abnormalities detected at the time of diagnosis have been reported to be hypertension, cardiac hypertrophy, arrhythmias, coronary artery disease, and systolic heart failure, in the order of prevalence ( 123 , 124 ). Hypertension presents with higher diastolic readings than systolic BP measurements ( 125 ). Based on ambulatory BP monitoring readings, it seems that the prevalence of hypertension is about 22% at diagnosis, much lower than earlier studies with single office measurements ( 126 ). Anti-natriuretic effect of GH is a direct consequence of GH action on the epithelial sodium channel ENaC in cortical collecting ducts of the kidney ( 127 ). This sodium retention leads to volume expansion and further compounded by GH effects on cardiac output, impaired endothelial function, increased peripheral resistance and co-existent sleep apnea are some factors that lead to development of hypertension ( 128 ). Acromegaly related cardiomyopathy is a consequence of GH and IGF-1 effect on cardiac myocytes, regulation of cardiac muscle specific gene transcription, and increased fibrosis ( 129 ). It has been described to undergo three stages of disease progression ( 130 ). In the first phase biventricular concentric hypertrophy is described related to muscle hypertrophy and increased contractility and leads to a hyperkinetic syndrome. As the disease progresses, patients tend to develop diastolic dysfunction with more prominent ventricular hypertrophy. Patients report reduced exercise tolerance and it is common for disease to be diagnosed in this phase. If untreated patients may progress to develop overt diastolic and systolic dysfunction presenting as congestive heart failure in about 3-4% cases and is a poor prognostic marker ( 123 ). The presence of left ventricular hypertrophy correlates with disease duration and various studies report prevalence from 11-78% ( 84 , 131 ). Cardiac Magnetic Resonance (CMR) studies have demonstrated variable prevalence of left ventricular hypertrophy compared to echocardiographic studies ( 132 , 133 ). CMR is more reliable in identifying myocardial fibrosis and RV systolic dysfunction then echocardiography ( 133 ). Despite the presence of cardiovascular abnormalities associated
