Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


studies ( 132 , 133 ). CMR is more reliable in identifying myocardial fibrosis and RV systolic dysfunction then echocardiography ( 133 ). Despite the presence of cardiovascular abnormalities associated with ischemic heart disease, recent studies report no increase in prevalence of Ischemic heart disease, in comparison to normal population ( 55 , 134 ). Cardiac arrhythmias have been reported to occur in about 7-40% cases of acromegaly. A wide range of rhythm disturbances described in patients with acromegaly include paroxysmal atrial tachycardia, supraventricular tachycardia, sick sinus syndrome, ventricular ectopic, and ventricular tachycardia ( 130 ). A typical acromegaly related left ventricular rhythm disturbance, results from abnormal and dyssynchronous loss of peak contraction of corresponding cardiac segments ( 135 ). Mitral and aortic regurgitation have been commonly associated with acromegaly and seem to correlate with the duration of the disease ( 136 ). Unlike cardiomyopathy and arrhythmias which improve or even completely reverse with disease control, valvular disease is irreversible and only tends to stabilize with intervention ( 130 ). Metabolic Complications Growth hormone is a potent insulin antagonist and acromegaly results in abnormal glucose tolerance in many patients with frank diabetes mellitus in up to 50% cases at diagnosis. Lipid abnormalities, in particular elevation of serum triglycerides, reduced HDL levels, increased small dense LDL particles, and increased lipoprotein-a (Lp(a)) may be an accompanying feature of insulin resistance and is noted in one third of the cases ( 137 , 138 ). Chronic GH excess results development of insulin resistance by several mechanisms. Reduced glucose uptake occurs by increased levels of free fatty acids and reduced expression of GLUT1 and GLUT 4 receptors ( 139 ). GH also results in development of a pro inflammatory state in the adipose tissues with alterations of the genes coding visfatin and IL6 ( 140 ). The degree of insulin resistance correlates with IGF-1 levels ( 141 ) and improves with management of the disease. Development of IGF receptor resistance beyond a threshold for IGF-1 has been reported in states of chronic GH excess leading to further insulin resistance ( 142 ). Visfatin and irisin levels have been suggested to correlate with metabolic abnormalities and cardiovascular risk factors ( 143 , 144 ). When choosing treatment, octreotide, and lanreotide have less impact on the glycemic variations, while pasireotide can aggravate hyperglycemia. Pegvisomant has a favorable on the metabolic parameters ( 145 ). Table 3.
