Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


choosing treatment, octreotide, and lanreotide have less impact on the glycemic variations, while pasireotide can aggravate hyperglycemia. Pegvisomant has a favorable on the metabolic parameters ( 145 ). Table 3. Clinical Manifestations and Complications Reported with Acromegaly View in own window Tumor related local effects Headache Visual field defects Cranial nerve abnormalities Hydrocephalus Temporal lobe epilepsy Hyperprolactinemia Hypopituitarism Systemic effects Skin changes Hyperhidrosis Oily skin Skin tags Hypertrichosis Acanthosis Cutis verticis gyrata Cardiac HT Cardiomyopathy Valvular heart disease Arrhythmia Heart failure Soft tissues changes Acral enlargement Change in voice quality Visceromegaly (thyroid, prostate, liver, salivary glands) Neurological Peripheral nerve abnormalities Autonomic dysregulation Lumbar canal stenosis Narcolepsy Restless leg syndrome Orofacial changes Prognathism Frontal prominence Dental malocclusion TMJ pain Gingival enlargement Macroglossia Pulmonary Sleep apnea Restrictive lung disease Subclinical hypoxemia Musculoskeletal Vertebral deformities Kyphosis Arthralgia and arthritis Myopathy Degenerative arthropathy Calcific discopathy Hypermobility Neoplastic Colon polyps Thyroid cancer Breast cancer Endocrine and Metabolic Hypogonadism PCOS DM, insulin resistance Hypertriglyceridemia Erectile dysfunction Renal Increased GFR Hypercalciuria Glomerulosclerosis Hematological Increased thrombosis risk Psychiatric Depression Ocular Increased risk of diabetic retinopathy Extraocular myopathy Glaucoma Epiphora Thyroid Abnormalities Patients with GH excess have been demonstrated to have a rise in TSH and T3 levels with no significant relation with the FT4 levels ( 146 ). There is a direct correlation of IGF-1, GH levels with thyroid volume. Multinodular goiter is one of the most common thyroid abnormality in patients with acromegaly with frequencies of 69.5 to 79.1% being reported by some authors ( 147 ). Patients in remission after surgery have been shown to have change in the consistency of the thyroid nodules, reduced vascularity, and volume ( 148 ). Over the course of follow up of patients with active acromegaly, thyroid nodule enlargement seemed to correlate with IGF-1 levels with increased prevalence of differentiated thyroid cancer (papillary thyroid carcinoma) in this subgroup ( 149 , 150 ). Despite the increasing understanding, routine screening for thyroid nodules is not yet recommended but assessment should certainly be considered in patients with a palpable nodule ( 151 ). Neoplasia The true risk of cancer continues to remain debated with concerns of heterogeneity in the study population, selection biases, variable screening strategies, and limitations of using standardized incidence ratios as the reporting indices ( 84 ). In the recent years, some large cohort population studies suggest higher cancer risk than general population. Acromegaly has been associated increased risk
