Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


ratios as the reporting indices ( 84 ). In the recent years, some large cohort population studies suggest higher cancer risk than general population. Acromegaly has been associated increased risk of cancers, particularly colon, kidney, and thyroid cancer in a large Italian survey ( 152 ). A similarly large Danish cohort has reported increased incidence of colon, thyroid, breast, gastric, and urinary bladder cancers ( 153 ). Animal models and in vitro studies suggest anti-apoptotic and tissue proliferative role of GH and IGF-1. IGF-1 deficiency has been found to result in protection from tumor development. GH signaling pathways and autocrine GH action contribute to tumorigenesis and in colonic tissue this mechanism results in reduced action of tumor suppressor proteins ( 84 , 154 ). Colon cancer has been studied in detail in patients with acromegaly. Patients have a higher prevalence of adenomatous and non-adenomatous polyps than general population ( 155 ) with reported trend varying between 6-30% ( 156 ). Colonic pathology is related to disease activity with patients with elevated serum growth hormone and IGF-1 levels being particularly prone to developing colonic adenomas ( 157 ). Although the exact pathogenesis of these tumors remains uncertain it is likely to involve altered homeostasis of cell numbers within the colonic epithelial crypts; increased proliferation and decreased apoptosis within the crypts of patients with acromegaly have both been documented ( 158 ). Colorectal neoplasia in acromegaly has different characteristics compared to the general population, in that the adenomas are more likely to be located in the right side of the colon, tend to be bigger and are more often multiple as well as demonstrating increased dysplasia ( 159 ). It is now generally accepted that patients with acromegaly should be regarded as a high-risk group for colorectal cancer and regular colonoscopy screening should be offered to all patients. Current evidence suggests that this should begin at the age of 40 years with the subsequent interval depending both on disease activity and the findings at the original colonoscopy screening ( 160 ). In the presence of a polyp (hyperplastic or adenoma) or elevated serum IGF-1 levels screening should be repeated after five years, whilst a normal colonoscopy screening, or serum IGF-1 level within the normal range suggests screening every 10 years may be appropriate. As approximately 30% of lesions occur at the cecum or in the ascending colon, total full-length colonoscopy is required.
