Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


the normal range suggests screening every 10 years may be appropriate. As approximately 30% of lesions occur at the cecum or in the ascending colon, total full-length colonoscopy is required. This should be performed by an experienced colonoscopist, as the cecum is reached in only about 70% of patients in inexperienced hands. Due to their slow bowel transit time and elongated colon, patients with acromegaly require rigorous bowel preparation, often twice that necessary for the patient without acromegaly. Failure to visualize the cecum necessities a repeat colonoscopy or failing this examination using CT virtual colonoscopy ( 156 ). Lung Complications Pulmonary complications are common in acromegaly. Total lung volume and residual volume are increased, along with narrowing of both large upper airways and more commonly small airways ( 161 , 162 ). In a large study Storrmann et al reported higher prevalence of small airway obstruction in females. They also highlighted presence of subclinical hypoxemia in patients with acromegaly. The findings did not correlate with levels of IGF-1 of duration of disease ( 163 ). Tracheal structural abnormalities have been found to be responsible for large airway disease ( 164 ). Ocular and Auditory Complications A wide variety of ocular complications have been reported in patients with acromegaly, apart from visual field defects. The prevalence of proliferative diabetic retinopathy has been variably reported to be higher in patients with acromegaly ( 165 ) in some studies, while others suggest it is likely that there is increased retinal vessel branching, and noted no difference in retinopathy rates ( 166 ). Extraocular muscle enlargement has been reported by few authors and rarely has resulted in presentation of diplopia ( 167 - 169 ). Studies have highlighted increased intraocular pressure, increased corneal thickness and increased retinal thickness in patients with acromegaly, with rare reports of epiphora ( 170 - 172 ). The association of acromegaly with hearing disturbances has not been well reported. There have suggestions of abnormal bony changes, changes in middle ear pressures and internal acoustic meatus contributing to variable hearing abnormalities ( 173 , 174 ). But findings have not been widely validated and association of acromegaly with hearing loss is not well established ( 175 ). Other Systemic Complications Hematological abnormalities are not common with acromegaly. Recent evidence suggests patients with active acromegaly may be at a higher thrombotic risk and this could contribute to cardiovascular risk ( 176
