Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


Hematological abnormalities are not common with acromegaly. Recent evidence suggests patients with active acromegaly may be at a higher thrombotic risk and this could contribute to cardiovascular risk ( 176 , 177 ). Higher levels of fibrinogen, factor VIII and thrombin tend to result in hypercoagulable state in active untreated disease ( 178 ). Rare case reports of polycythemia, myeloma, and Waldenstrom’s macroglobulinemia have been reported ( 179 , 180 ). GH and IGF-1 receptors have been found in kidneys and suggest local autocrine and endocrine activity of GH at the level of nephrons ( 51 ). The effect of GH excess on kidneys has not been well described. Chronic GH exposure leads to renal hypertrophy and structural changes to include glomerulosclerosis ( 181 ) . Patients with acromegaly have been reported to have increased GFR, reduced renal excretion of sodium, potassium, hypercalciuria, hyperphosphaturia, greater prevalence of microalbuminuria and micro-nephrolithiasis, irrespective of comorbidities ( 182 - 185 ). Morbidity and Mortality in Acromegaly It is established that uncontrolled acromegaly results in a considerable increase in morbidity with an overall mortality at least two-fold that of the general population ( 186 ). In early epidemiological reviews more than 50% of patients had died by the age of 60 years, usually as a result of diabetes, cardiovascular, respiratory or cerebrovascular disease ( 187 ). With improved treatment of both the underlying disease and these complications, patients are now surviving longer although may then be susceptible to other complications such as malignancy ( 188 ). The determinants of mortality included older age and IGF-1 levels at diagnosis, treatment modality, and malignancy ( 121 ). Prolonged diagnostic delay has been found to positively correlate with morbidity and mortality ( 189 ). Longitudinal population cohorts indicate a negative impact of female gender on the presence of comorbidities and mortality ( 37 , 190 ). DIAGNOSIS OF ACROMEGALY The diagnosis is made using a combination of clinical examination and biochemical assessment. Serum growth hormone concentrations are typically elevated, and although pulsatility may be reduced, levels may fluctuate widely in acromegaly. Due to the pulsatile nature of growth hormone secretion, a single growth hormone measurement is of little use in either monitoring or confirming the diagnosis of acromegaly. GH levels are affected by age, gender, and comorbid disease states and these factors need to be taken into account when interpreting results. These factors have been outlined in
