Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


acromegaly. GH levels are affected by age, gender, and comorbid disease states and these factors need to be taken into account when interpreting results. These factors have been outlined in table 1 . Due to variations between assays, it is recommended that a standardized and similar performing assay is used for monitoring of the disease activity. Most modern assays detect the highly prevalent GH 22kDa isoform and the most common preparation used to calibrate GH assays is the latest recombinant IRP 98/574 ( 197 ). It is useful to be aware of the interferences of the local assay with biotin and Pegvisomant. Various tests used in screening, diagnosis, and management of acromegaly are discussed below. Biochemical Tests at Diagnosis a. IGF-1 levels: A single serum IGF-1 level has been advocated as being a useful first line test for the diagnosis of acromegaly as it is elevated in the majority of subjects. It is an indirect assessment of growth hormone secretion with approximately 25% of patients having a discrepancy between the mean value of a growth hormone day curve and an IGF-1 level. IGF-1 secretion is subject to several influences including liver and renal dysfunction, nutrition, diabetes mellitus, physiological factors such as age, gender, and the presence of a statistical correlation between its levels and those of growth hormone should not be used as proof that they are interchangeable ( 198 ). However, despite these limitations, from a practical point of view, an elevated serum IGF-1 measurement may be useful as confirmatory evidence, assuming that age and sex matched normal ranges are used, and for monitoring treatment ( 199 ). Standardized IGF-1 (IS 02/254) is recommended for manufacturers of IGF-1 assays ( 52 , 200 ). b. GH day curve: The assessment of growth hormone hypersecretion requires the mean value of serial samples taken throughout the day (e.g., 5 samples over a 12-hour period). The samples should be taken through an indwelling venous cannula to avoid the stress effects of repeated venipuncture. In normal subjects, the majority of values throughout the day are undetectable, but in acromegaly typically each value is measurable, often with a fixed rate of secretion ( 201 ). c. Oral glucose tolerance test: Failure of normal suppression of serum growth hormone following administration of oral glucose remains the ‘gold-standard’ biochemical test ( 202 ). 75 g of oral glucose is given at 9 am to the fasting
