Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


of serum growth hormone following administration of oral glucose remains the ‘gold-standard’ biochemical test ( 202 ). 75 g of oral glucose is given at 9 am to the fasting patient and plasma glucose and serum growth hormone levels are measured at baseline, 30, 60, 90, 120 (and 150) minutes thereafter. In normal subjects, growth hormone levels suppress to undetectable values (typically <0.1 ng/ml) when ultrasensitive assays are used, whilst in acromegaly serum growth hormone remains detectable, and in approximately 30% of cases there is a paradoxical increase ( 199 ). In conventional practice failure to suppress serum growth hormone to a level < 0.4 ng/ml following ingestion of glucose supports the diagnosis of acromegaly. The use of this test also detects those patients with impaired glucose tolerance or diabetes mellitus other than individuals with poor diabetes control ( 203 ). False-positive results can be seen in conditions where GH levels are elevated such as stress, type 1 diabetes mellitus, cirrhosis, chronic renal failure, during adolescence, and by drug use (L -dopa, heroin, estrogen 201,204). d. TRH test: In cases of remaining doubt about the diagnosis of acromegaly, a TRH test can be used (200 mg of thyrotrophin releasing hormone given intravenously with serum measurement at 0, 20 and 60 minutes). In normal subjects TRH inhibits growth hormone secretion with a fall in serum concentration, whilst approximately 60% of patients with acromegaly demonstrate a paradoxical rise in growth hormone levels ( 205 ). In mild disease with relatively low GH levels, TRH stimulation has been suggested to confirm early diagnosis ( 206 ). e. Others: IGFBP3 levels correlate with mean 24 hour GH levels and IGF-1 levels, but due to the wide overlap with normal and diseased individuals, is a poor parameter for measuring disease activity ( 207 ). In the rare patient in whom a non-pituitary etiology is suspected, measurement of serum GHRH may be performed, typically with very elevated levels occurring in ectopic GHRH syndromes such as neuroendocrine tumors. Basal serum prolactin should also be measured as prolactin may be co-secreted with growth hormone in up to a third of patients with acromegaly, which often indicates therapeutic responsiveness to the use of dopamine agonists. In those with hyperprolactinemia the presence of macroprolactin should be excluded ( 208 ). In patients with atypical clinical symptoms such as GI symptoms, hypoglycemia, renal stones, clinicians should consider exploring possibility of coexisting
