Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


the presence of macroprolactin should be excluded ( 208 ). In patients with atypical clinical symptoms such as GI symptoms, hypoglycemia, renal stones, clinicians should consider exploring possibility of coexisting genetic tumors or extra pituitary source of GH abnormality, such as carcinoid tumors. Biochemical Tests Used to Define Disease Activity to Guide Outcomes a. Octreotide test: Acute challenge with octreotide 100mcg sc dose can help predict response to SSA when hourly values are measured over 6 hours ( 209 , 210 ). Not all clinicians perform this test and many treat with a long-acting SSA independent of a challenge test ( 211 ). b. IGF-1 levels: IGF-1 levels can take over three months to normalize in the post-operative period and until then cannot be reliably used to guide management. In longer term the aim of treatment is to keep levels within the normal ranges ( 52 ). In patients with Pegvisomant therapy, IGF-1 is the variable that guides response to treatment ( 212 ). c. Random GH levels: Random levels can be used to define surgical cure and values as early as day 1 can be undertaken if no pre-operative GH suppressing therapy was used, bearing in mind the effect of post-operative stress. A serum GH <0.4 µg/L favors disease remission and a level <1 µg/L indicates good control and normalization of the mortality risk ( 151 ). d. OGTT: OGTT can be undertaken to evaluate post-operative outcome if random GH values >1µg/L. A nadir GH cut off of <1µg/L is associated with better long-term outcomes and would be considered as good control. Endocrine Society guidelines suggest GH nadir of less than 0.4mcg/ L could be used to define disease remission ( 151 ) It has been suggested that post-operative OGTT at 3 months is more appropriate than an early test in 3 weeks and is likely to help avoid false positives ( 213 ). e. Other tests: The GH day curve test is rarely required for long term monitoring. The mean GH value of <2.5µg/L correlates better with disease control but it is unreliable in patients who have undergone radiotherapy due to alterations of GH pulsatility pattern ( 214 ). Post-operative TRH test has been suggested to predict long term disease remission, but again is rarely required ( 211 ). Radiological Assessment Historically the diagnosis of pituitary tumors causing acromegaly was made on the basis of changes to skull
