Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


term disease remission, but again is rarely required ( 211 ). Radiological Assessment Historically the diagnosis of pituitary tumors causing acromegaly was made on the basis of changes to skull bones with demonstration of enlargement of the fossa. With advances in radiology, pituitary MRI with gadolinium enhancement is considered the optimal modality and should be undertaken to determine size of the tumor, define tumor characteristics and assess threat to surrounding structures. At diagnosis, more than 70% of patients with acromegaly have a macroadenoma (≥10 mm in diameter) which often extends laterally to the cavernous sinus or superiorly to the supra-sellar region. Younger patients often present with more aggressive disease, with more invasive tumors which often extend inferiorly. On T1 weighted images the pituitary adenoma tends to be of lower signal intensity than the surrounding normal gland and enhances less briskly than the normal gland after injection with intravenous gadolinium contrast. Tumors >15mm, supra-sellar extension, and cavernous sinus extension of the tumor has been associated with lower rate of surgical cure ( 215 ). Radiologic grading of pituitary tumors using KNOSP classification is widely used in predict disease invasiveness and tumor response. Some studies report cavernous sinus invasion as the strongest factor predicting surgical outcome ( 216 , 217 ). In the last decade there is substantial evidence to suggest that hypointensity on T2 weighted MRI is suggestive of good response to somatostatin analogue SSA therapy ( 218 , 219 ). Based on histological characteristics, hypointense T2 weighted tumors correlate with a densely granulated histological subtype and tend to be less aggressive in behavior ( 220 , 221 ). In the post-operative phase, MRI should be considered approximately 3 months after surgery to allow post-operative changes to settle. Subsequent surveillance scans should be guided by biochemical markers as they guide correlation with tumor recurrence. Unless concerned, unenhanced imaging may be preferred for patients expected to require long term surveillance to reduce exposure to gadolinium ( 222 ). There are limitations of MRI when it comes to evaluation of persistent or residual disease. In these cases, use of C11 Methionine Positron Emission technology MET-PET with co-registration of volumetric MRI has been found to provide valuable information to guide repeat surgery or targeted gamma knife surgery ( 223 , 224 ). In patients with previously reported empty sella or residual parasellar tissue where surgeons would struggle to consider intervention, the information provided by
