Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


gamma knife surgery ( 223 , 224 ). In patients with previously reported empty sella or residual parasellar tissue where surgeons would struggle to consider intervention, the information provided by MET-PET has been found to be useful with positive outcomes. Other tracers that have been studied and reported to guide management include N13 ammonia PET, DOTATATE PET ( 225 , 226 ). In rare cases of ectopic GHRH secretion, a pituitary MRI can sometimes help differentiate between a pituitary adenoma and hyperplastic pituitary tissue ( 53 ). The use of somatostatin receptor scintigraphy (particularly Gallium Dotatate) is useful to correlate the source of ectopic hormone production to an unexpected finding on a conventional body imaging. Figure 6. Enlargement of pituitary fossae on lateral skull x-ray. Figure 7. MRI demonstrating a somatotroph macroadenoma of the pituitary gland. Neuro-Ophthalmological Testing Neuro-ophthalmological assessment should be undertaken in all patients with macroadenomas, especially where tumor is visibly contacting the optic chiasm. At the initial consultation visual acuity should be assessed with the use of Snellen charts and fundoscopy performed to exclude optic atrophy, retinal vein engorgement, or papilledema from pressure on the visual pathways. Visual fields may be assessed by confrontation using a red pin. Patients with any clinical symptoms or evidence of optic chiasmal compression from imaging studies require formal assessment of visual fields with formal perimetry or visual evoked responses, stimulating each half field in turn. Optical coherence tomography should be used to assess retinal nerve fiber layer as a marker of chiasmal damage. Although permanent loss of vision and/or visual field defects usually result from long standing optic chiasmal compression, the shorter the time of compression the easier and more complete is the reversal of any visual field deficit. Surgical decompression may result in rapid improvement in visual fields within hours or days, although the presence of optic atrophy reduces the likelihood of this occurring. Because onset is often insidious, patients may be unaware of any alteration in their vision, although once documented its presence requires them to inform the vehicle licensing authority as driving ability may be impaired. An exception to this usual gradual deterioration is pituitary hemorrhage when visual loss may be sudden with a loss of central vision and development of bitemporal field defects and possible ophthalmoplegia often accompanied by changes in higher mental function. Assessment of Pituitary Function Assessment of the integrity of the other pituitary hormones
