Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


and development of bitemporal field defects and possible ophthalmoplegia often accompanied by changes in higher mental function. Assessment of Pituitary Function Assessment of the integrity of the other pituitary hormones needs to be performed by a combination of the appropriate basal and dynamic tests. These are mentioned in other Endotext chapters. Prior to and following pituitary surgery, both residual pituitary function and the growth hormone secretory status should be evaluated. Basal endocrine testing for early morning cortisol, thyroxine, thyroid stimulating hormone, follicle stimulating hormone, luteinizing hormone, testosterone/estrogen, prolactin, and serum & urinary osmolality, should be performed. Where there is doubt, a provocative test should be made of ACTH reserve. Histological Assessment Histology provides valuable information to determine tumor characteristics. Keratin staining is essential to distinguish between densely granulated and sparsely granulated tumors. Further use of immunohistochemical IHC staining modalities is increasing found to help understand tumor behavior. Details of various histological subtypes are highlighted in table 2 . IHC staining for different transcription factors Pit-1, SF-1, or Tpit along with hormonal staining is used to understand the tissue of origin. Ki67 labelling index is widely used to determine proliferation rates, though it does not always predict tumor behavior. Evaluation of somatostatin receptor SSTR expression is used to guide response to SSA therapy. Additional immunostaining modalities used in recognition of familial tumors are menin, p27, AIP and SDH expression ( 227 ). Genetic Testing Over the last decade, we have seen an increasing understanding of the role of specific genes and mechanisms responsible for development of pituitary tumors. The genetic disorders associated with acromegaly are summarized in table 4 . The most exciting developments relate to recognition that aryl hydrocarbon receptor interacting protein (AIP) mutations can account for familial pituitary adenomas. Such cases may present in younger patients with more aggressive tumors, including somatotroph adenomas. Testing for AIP mutations (FIPA) should be considered for any patient with a family history of pituitary tumor, especially GH and/or prolactin secreting tumors ( 228 ). This is particularly so, in those presenting at younger age (<30 years) with aggressive pituitary adenoma. There is some evidence that the response to somatostatin analogue treatment is reduced in acromegaly associated with AIP mutation ( 229 ). Data from the German Pituitary Registry suggest that even in younger patients with acromegaly that the prevalence of AIP mutations is low (<5%) ( 230 ). X-LAG X-linked acrogigantism mutation is
