Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


selected cases 6 monthly DM Hba1c, FBG OGTT in selected cases At diagnosis and 6 monthly if normal OSA Clinical evaluation and Epworth scale Polysomnography for confirmation At diagnosis and annually Cardiomyopathy ECG Echocardiography At diagnosis and 3-5 yearly if normal Dyslipidemia Lipid profile At diagnosis and 6 monthly Colon polyps Colonoscopy At diagnosis in patients >40 years age, and 10 yearly if normal, 3-5 yearly if polyp noted and IGF-1 elevated Thyroid nodules Clinical evaluation Thyroid US guided by examination Annually Vertebral disease Bone morphometric study using thoracic x-ray, thoracic and lumbar spine x-ray DEXA At Diagnosis and yearly, guided by symptoms Cerebral aneurysm Cerebral MR angiography Infrequently QOL ACROQOL Annually DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS Patients with tall stature are frequently suspected to have acromegaly, but absence of soft tissue changes and normal biochemistry should prompt investigations for alternative causes such as Marfans syndrome, homocystinuria, or a familial trait. Pseudoacromegaly or acromegaly mimics are rare disorders with clinical manifestations strongly suggestive of GH excess, but without any biochemical evidence favoring the diagnosis. Pachydermoperiostosis is reported more commonly in males and has an autosomal recessive inheritance. It has been reported secondary to HPGD mutations or SLCO2A1 mutation, which lead to an increase in prostaglandin E2 ( 235 ). MANAGEMENT OF ACROMEGALY Given the chronic nature and associated significant increased morbidity and mortality of acromegaly, treatment is required for almost all patients. Three modalities of treatment are available: surgery, pituitary irradiation, and medical therapy. All of these have advantages and disadvantages and more than one modality is frequently needed, sometimes all three. The decision as to whether to treat and the modality employed must be based on a number of factors, including patient age and general health, wish for fertility, severity of disease and any associated complications, and the risk/benefit ratio of the proposed treatment modality. The goals of treatment are summarized in Table 6 . Consensus guidelines define goals for treatment of acromegaly. These include achieving an age-matched normal range IGF-1 and GH <0.4 mcg/L ( 236 ). Table 6. Acromegaly- Aims of Treatment View in own window 1. Removal of the pituitary tumor and resolution of mass effects 2. Relief of the symptoms and signs of acromegaly 3. Restoration of normal rates of secretion of growth hormone and IGF-1 4. Maintenance of normal anterior pituitary function 5. Prevention of recurrence 6. Assessment and treatment of chronic complications Whilst the general principles
