Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


rates of secretion of growth hormone and IGF-1 4. Maintenance of normal anterior pituitary function 5. Prevention of recurrence 6. Assessment and treatment of chronic complications Whilst the general principles of these aims are accepted by all endocrinologists, there remains considerable controversy as to the degree of growth hormone reduction that should be the target and what level should be regarded as normal. The use of sensitive growth hormone assays has demonstrated that abnormal patterns of growth hormone secretion can remain despite reduction in mean circulating concentrations to extremely low levels, and thus complete restoration to normality is often not achieved. Early epidemiological reviews, particularly those documenting the results of surgery, tended to regard a mean level of less than 5 ng/ml as being satisfactory. It has become clear in recent years that the excess mortality associated with acromegaly can be significantly reduced and indeed restored to that of the normal population by aggressive treatment and reduction of serum growth hormone concentrations to a mean level of less than 1 ng/ml and/or a serum IGF-1 within the aged-matched reference range. Thus, rather than using the word cure, it is may be more appropriate to consider an average growth hormone concentration of ≤ 1 ng/ml as representing a "safe" level, whereas current consensus is to aim for <0.4 ng/ml ( 236 ). Surgery for Acromegaly Trans-sphenoidal surgery is the initial treatment of choice for most patients. Originally performed by Harvey Cushing in 1910, the lack of adequate visualization prevented its reintroduction for routine use until the mid-1970's. With modern equipment and in experienced hands, it is a safe procedure with a low complication rate and mortality of less than 0.5%. The most commonly used approach is with the patient in a semi-reclining position via a mid-line nasal route. Using a sub-labial or direct nasal approach, the mucosa is cleaved off the nasal septum providing access to the sphenoid sinus and subsequent removal of the fossa floor. A less satisfactory alternative approach is via the ethmoidal sinus. Pituitary adenomas are usually soft and easily removed with curettes although firmer and larger tumors may require piecemeal removal. Using this technique, even tumors with a significant suprasellar extension can be removed via the trans-sphenoidal route, although massive tumors may require a craniotomy. Such transcranial surgery is however associated with increased morbidity and mortality and is rarely required. More recent surgical techniques include the use
