Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


route, although massive tumors may require a craniotomy. Such transcranial surgery is however associated with increased morbidity and mortality and is rarely required. More recent surgical techniques include the use of intra-operative MRI ( 237 ) and intra-operative growth hormone measurement ( 238 ). The development of endoscopic trans-sphenoidal surgery offers several advantages over the conventional technique, and is the now the method of choice. Reported advantages over the microscopic technique include superior tumor clearance, especially suprasellar extension, less surgical morbidity, fewer complications, and reduced post-operative discomfort ( 239 ), though evidence suggests endoscopic surgery and microsurgery yield similar outcomes in the most experienced hands ( 240 ). Endonasal endoscopic surgery, with ability to resect cavernous sinus located adenoma will increasingly be standard of care in pituitary surgery. A key recent development in the management of acromegaly internationally is the formalization of a team approach, with endocrinologist, neurosurgeon, specialist nurses, oncologists, radiologists, and histopathologists increasingly working as a single-team, making consensus decisions in a timely and coordinated fashion. There is general acknowledgement that functioning pituitary tumors are best managed in centers with larger volume and experience of rarer conditions ( 236 ). Certainly, this practice is increasingly the case in Europe and the USA. The success rate of trans-sphenoidal surgery depends on several factors: (i) the size of the tumor, (ii) pre-operative growth hormone values and (iii) the skill and experience of the surgeon and (iv) most importantly cavernous sinus invasion. A predictive model using age, KNOSP classification, and pre-operative GH levels has been proposed to predict surgical remission and guide pre-operative medical management and long term management ( 241 ). Although different series have often used different criteria to determine success rates, in experienced hands post-operative mean growth hormone levels of less than 1 ng/ml should be achieved in 70%-90% of microadenomas and 30%-50% of macroadenomas ( 52 ). Pre-treatment of patients with somatostatin analogues before trans-sphenoidal surgery is increasingly becoming standard practice, even if early surgery is being planned, as it results in significant shrinkage (approximately 50%) of the adenoma and may improve the subsequent surgical cure rates ( 242 ). Complications of trans-sphenoidal surgery include diabetes insipidus, CSF rhinorrhea, meningitis, and hypopituitarism. Diabetes Insipidus is usually transient but may be permanent in approximately 5% of cases depending on the criteria for its diagnosis. A serum osmolality of greater than 295 mosmols/l with a simultaneous urine osmolality of
