Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


but may be permanent in approximately 5% of cases depending on the criteria for its diagnosis. A serum osmolality of greater than 295 mosmols/l with a simultaneous urine osmolality of less than 150 mosm/l is confirmatory. It responds well to desmopressin (DDAVP, subcutaneous, oral, or intranasal). Radiotherapy in Acromegaly Radiotherapy in the management of pituitary disorders including acromegaly is discussed in detail in another Endotext chapter. Pituitary irradiation is usually used as an adjunct to pituitary surgery when growth hormone levels remain elevated. In elderly patients or those unfit for surgery, it may rarely be used as first-line therapy ( 243 ). There are several techniques that have been used: conventional mega-voltage external irradiation, stereotactic single high dose irradiation, interstitial implantation of yttrium 90 seeds, and whole particle proton beam therapy. Only the first two will be discussed here. Conventional mega-voltage irradiation has been in routine use for over 40 years and consequently there is a wealth of experience principally relating to it being both a safe and effective technique. A linear accelerator is used as the source; less satisfactory is a cobalt source. Irradiation is focused onto the pituitary fossa using modern CT/MRI imaging and planning, which allows for accurate dosimetry and minimal variation in the daily dosage to surrounding structures, using IMRT. This is particularly so for the optic chiasm, damage to which is avoided by the use of daily fractions of less than 200 cGy. The majority of centers advocate a total dose of 4500 cGy given in 25 fractions of 180 cGy over 5-6 weeks via a minimum of three fields (one frontal and two temporal). Numerous studies have confirmed the efficacy of such mega-voltage irradiation with a 50% fall in growth hormone values occurring in the first two years, regardless of basal levels, followed by a continuing exponential decline thereafter ( 244 ). The majority of patients therefore do eventually achieve a level of less than 2 ng/ml, although the interval to reach this depends on the baseline levels. A similar response is seen with IGF-1 with approximately 60% of patients eventually achieving a normal serum level after 10 years. Although it is recognized that pituitary irradiation is associated with several potential adverse consequences, these are rare when irradiation is delivered properly, other than an increased prevalence of hypopituitarism. At ten years after irradiation, approximately 60% of patients are hypogonadal, 50% ACTH deficient, and 40%
