Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


are rare when irradiation is delivered properly, other than an increased prevalence of hypopituitarism. At ten years after irradiation, approximately 60% of patients are hypogonadal, 50% ACTH deficient, and 40% requiring thyroxine replacement. However, the prevalence prior to irradiation, either due to the pituitary tumor itself or previous surgery should be taken into account, with baseline figures being 40% hypogonadal, 35% ACTH, and 15% TSH deficient ( 244 ). Other concerns include development of secondary tumors in up to 2% of cases, radiation induced optic neuropathy in up to 5% cases, cerebrovascular events in up to 20% of cases over 20 years duration, brain necrosis, and psychocognitive impairment ( 245 - 247 ). Stereotactic single high dose pituitary irradiation using either the gamma knife (radiosurgery) or stereotactic multiple arc radiotherapy (SMART) has received increasing attention in recent years as an alternative to conventional irradiation. These techniques permit the delivery of a single high dose of irradiation to a previously mapped area whilst also ensuring a rapid reduction in radiation exposure to surrounding structures. Median dose delivered is 15-35Gy and invariably achieves good tumor control at 5 years follow up and about 50% biochemical remission at 5 years ( 247 ) Care needs to be taken with tumors close to the optic chiasm. Initial impressions suggest that growth hormone levels fall to normal earlier than after conventional radiotherapy, but that hypopituitarism occurs just as often ( 248 ). Side effects of secondary brain tumors and cerebral vasculopathy seem to be lower but long term studies are awaited ( 247 ). Although the stereotactic technique has clear advantages over conventional external irradiation in terms of precise mapping to a specified tumor volume, it may not encompass tumor tissue that is not visualized radiologically. This is in contrast to conventional irradiation which is usually configured to encompass the whole of the pre-operative tumor volume, and thus will treat tumor beyond the resolution of imaging techniques. It is for this reason that stereotactic irradiation should be seen as complementary to conventional irradiation. Medical Therapy of Acromegaly Three different types of medical therapy are currently used in the treatment of acromegaly, dopamine agonists, somatostatin analogs and growth hormone antagonists. DOPAMINE AGONISTS IN THE TREATMENT OF ACROMEGALY From their discovery and synthesis in 1971 until the introduction of somatostatin analogs in the mid-1980’s, dopamine agonists, such as bromocriptine, were the sole medical therapy for acromegaly. However,
