Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


ACROMEGALY From their discovery and synthesis in 1971 until the introduction of somatostatin analogs in the mid-1980’s, dopamine agonists, such as bromocriptine, were the sole medical therapy for acromegaly. However, they are relatively ineffective and whilst approximately 80% of patients will show a reduction in growth hormone levels, only about 10-15% achieved a mean level of less than 2 ng/ml ( 249 ). Furthermore, the doses required, often 20 - 30 mg of bromocriptine per day, are much higher than those needed for prolactin-secreting pituitary adenoma. Consequently, the side effects of nausea, headache, dizziness, postural hypotension, and nasal stuffiness tend to be worse, although can be minimized by taking the drug in the middle of a main meal to slow absorption and most patients will demonstrate tachyphylaxis. Unlike in patients with prolactinomas (where an excellent treatment response is expected), there may be only a modest reduction in tumor size but this is usually insignificant. Cessation of treatment results in rebound growth hormone hypersecretion. The use of bromocriptine in acromegaly is limited. The development of the long-acting dopamine agonists such as cabergoline offered greater convenience and reduced side effects, although again high doses of up to 4 mg per day may be needed ( 250 ). A meta-analysis has demonstrated that its use can achieve normalization of IGF-1 levels in 34% of patients ( 251 ). There are no accurate predictive tests as to which patients will respond to dopamine agonists, but it has a place in the management of mixed growth hormone and prolactin secreting tumors and patients with mild IGF-1 elevation. Combination therapy with SSA is frequently used in patients with co-secreting tumors with good effect ( 252 ). Fig 8. Plasma IGF-1 and GH responses to dopamine agonist suppressive therapy in patients with pure GH secreting tumors. The upper squares indicate the pretreatment levels and lower squares correspond to the concentrations obtained by progressively increasing the weekly dose of cabergoline i.e., 1.0, 1.75, and 3.5 mg, respectively. Note the log scale for GH. SOMATOSTATIN ANALOG TREATMENT OF ACROMEGALY The development of octreotide (Sandostatin, Novartis, Basel, Switzerland) a synthetic somatostatin analog, represented a major advance in the treatment of acromegaly. In contrast to the short half-life of native somatostatin (approximately 90-seconds), the 8 amino acid octreotide has a half-life of about two hours. Following a single 100 mcg dose, there is prolonged suppression of growth hormone which lasts for
