Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


(approximately 90-seconds), the 8 amino acid octreotide has a half-life of about two hours. Following a single 100 mcg dose, there is prolonged suppression of growth hormone which lasts for several hours, and indeed this response to a single dose can be used to predict the long-term efficacy of octreotide. It is administered by subcutaneous injection and thus a thrice-daily regimen results in stable drug concentrations and maximal effect. More than 90% of patients show a reduction in growth hormone levels, with approximately 50-60% achieving levels of less than 2 ng/ml and a normal serum IGF-1 level. The usual doses are between 100-200 mg three times daily although occasional patients may require higher doses. This biochemical improvement is matched by rapid clinical improvement. The efficiency of octreotide and other somatostatin analogs (SSAs) such as lanreotide is linked to their preferential binding of the human somatostatin receptor type 2 (SSTR2) with reduced or absent binding of SSTR1, SSTR3, SSTR4 or SSTR5. Somatostatin analogs also have additional and independent, but poorly understood, analgesic properties on the headache associated with acromegaly. Since the introduction of short-acting octreotide, depot formulations of somatostatin analogs have become available. These consist of the active drug incorporated with microspheres of biodegradable polylactide and polyglycolide polymers which allow the slow release of analog after intramuscular injection. There are currently three such preparations available, octreotide LAR (Sandostatin LAR, Novartis) which is given at a variable dose of 10 mg, 20 mg or 30 mg at recommended four weekly intervals, lanreotide (Somatuline Autogel, Ipsen Biotech, Paris, France), which is given as a single dose of 60-120 mg every 28 days as a sub-cutaneous depot formulation, and the more recently licensed Pasireotide LAR. Pasireotide has increased affinity for SSTR5, and this has led to a license for the treatment of Cushing’s disease in addition to acromegaly. The SSA medications are also used in the treatment of neuroendocrine tumors arising outside the pituitary gland, in particular small bowel carcinoid tumors and pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. Sandostatin and Lanreotide Autogel are of similar efficacy in suppression of growth hormone and IGF-1 with safe growth hormone levels (<2 ng/ml) occurring in approximately 60-70% of patients ( 253 ), although a meta-analysis of patients unselected for somatostatin responsiveness indicated that normalized IGF-1 levels and safe growth hormone levels occurred in a higher proportion of LAR treated than lanreotide treated patients ( 254 ). Regardless, of the comparative
