Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


responsiveness indicated that normalized IGF-1 levels and safe growth hormone levels occurred in a higher proportion of LAR treated than lanreotide treated patients ( 254 ). Regardless, of the comparative effects, there is variability in individual patient’s sensitivity to these analogs and more than 90% of patients who achieve adequate control with 4 weekly octreotide LAR injections will also do so with 6 weekly injections ( 255 ). Consequently, careful dose titration needs to be performed on each patient. This is particularly important given the cost of these depot formulations; in the UK, the approximate annual cost of octreotide LAR given 4-weekly is £8000 for 10 mg injections, £11000 for 20 mg and £14000 for 30 mg, whilst the cost for lanreotide Autogel 90 mg is approximately £10000 per annum. Biosimilar agents will increasingly become available perhaps with reduced cost. Pasireotide is a novel cyclohexapeptide somatostatin analogue which is selective for SSTR2, 3 and 5, but also shows increased binding to SSTR1 compared to octreotide ( 256 ). The extended receptor affinity of pasireotide has led to it being referred to as a “second generation somatostatin analogue” with the original depot formulations being termed “first generation” analogues. More recent clinical trial data relating to Pasireotide in acromegaly indicates that this agent is modestly more potent than Sandostatin LAR in achieving control of GH and IGF-1, has long term safety, and also has a place in the management of seemingly octreotide resistant disease ( 257 ). A Phase III study showed that in new presentations of acromegaly achievement of control of GH and IGF-1 is superior with pasreotide (over octreotide) with about 20% patients achieving complete remission at 6 months, in a group resistant to first generation SSA therapy, suggesting that pasireotide may replace the earlier SSAs in treatment strategies in the future ( 258 ). Recent data from the PAOLA extension study showed that of the patients who achieved biochemical control at some point, 65.6% cases did so after 6 months of treatment. Increasing dose from 40-60mg allowed better remission rates (additional 28%) with reasonable safety profile ( 257 ). The drug seems to be particularly useful in the management of severe headaches in patient with acromegaly. Oral octreotide as an agent coupled to a transient gut absorption enhancer and has been very recently approved by the FDA. Phase 3 studies have shown that it helps achieve about 65% control
