Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


an agent coupled to a transient gut absorption enhancer and has been very recently approved by the FDA. Phase 3 studies have shown that it helps achieve about 65% control of IGF-1 and GH when switched from injectable SSA and sustains the benefit in about 90% individuals for at least 13 months of follow up ( 259 ). It is prescribed in the dose of 40-80mg per day and studies have demonstrated better absorption in a fasting state ( 260 ). The most commonly reported adverse effects include headache, nausea, and arthralgia. The side effects of somatostatin analogs are related to the widespread distribution of somatostatin and include effects on the gastrointestinal system, comprising colic type abdominal pain, diarrhea, flatulence, and nausea, although these tend to resolve with time. In the long-term gastritis occurs in a significant proportion of patients and perhaps most significantly gallstones form in approximately 50% of patients after two years of use. This is due to both an inhibition of gall bladder contraction and alterations in the composition of bile with cholesterol supersaturation. However, perhaps due to the gall bladder paresis, the majority of these remain asymptomatic. The effects of SSAs on glucose metabolism are multifactorial. While they improve insulin sensitivity by reducing growth hormone levels, they also exert direct inhibitory actions on insulin secretion by the pancreatic cells. The net result is normal glucose tolerance in the majority of patients. With their improved patient convenience, there have been suggestions that these depot formulations should be used as first-line treatment for acromegaly. However, their increased cost and the need for continuing treatment should be borne in mind. At present, there remains general consensus that whilst they may have a role prior to surgery to try and decrease tumor size, their major place is post-operatively as an adjunct to irradiation whilst waiting for growth hormone levels to fall. Provisional evidence suggests that treatment of acromegaly with somatostatin analogs prior to surgery improves the cardiovascular risk and respiratory status and may therefore have a place in larger and invasive tumors ( 261 , 262 ). Patients who remain uncontrolled despite the use of these somatostatin analogs may gain additional benefit with the addition of a dopamine agonist, but this is the exception rather than the rule. The incidence of hyperglycemia or diabetes is higher when patients are treated with pasireotide. This and the cost of the drug have
