Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


this is the exception rather than the rule. The incidence of hyperglycemia or diabetes is higher when patients are treated with pasireotide. This and the cost of the drug have thus far limited its use in the UK, though other health care economies have more readily incorporated pasireotide into the acromegaly treatment algorithm. GROWTH HORMONE ANTAGONISTS IN ACROMEGALY The development of Pegvisomant, the novel growth hormone receptor antagonist, is a major advance in the treatment of acromegaly. The development of this molecule utilizes the knowledge that the growth hormone molecule contains two distinct sites which bind to two corresponding unique sites on the respective growth hormone receptor dimer. Pegvisomant is a modified recombinant growth hormone molecule which has increased affinity to the first growth hormone receptor binding site but with decreased affinity to the second binding site. Thus, receptor dimerization and subsequent signal transduction is prevented. Its conjugation with polyethylene glycol (PEG) increases its molecular size, prolongs its half-life and reduces its antigenicity. Based on long term experience, some authors propose Pegvisomant to be most effective medical therapy to date and suitable as first line intervention in selected cases ( 263 ). In a study of 152 patients treated for up to 18 months, normalization of IGF-1 occurred in 90% of patients, although doses of up to 40 mg a day were required ( 264 ). Growth hormone levels cannot be measured in routine assays as the drug itself interferes with growth hormone assays and pituitary-derived growth hormone increases modestly. Pegvisomant is currently administered as a daily subcutaneous injection of approximately 1 ml in volume. Theoretical concerns exist regarding the increase in circulating growth hormone levels due to the loss of any negative feedback effects on the tumor, but although experience is still limited there is no evidence to date of risk of pituitary tumor growth ( 263 ). Pegvisomant is generally well tolerated although abnormalities of liver function occur in some patients. Its major use is for patients who are resistant to SSAs, either as a sole agent or as an additive agent. A study observed that the combination of 4-weekly octreotide LAR and weekly Pegvisomant normalized IGF-1 in more than 90% of patients with active disease who were not controlled with octreotide alone ( 265 ). Other suggestions for its use have been in patients with diabetes or impaired glucose tolerance, in whom SSAs might worsen glycemic control.
