Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


of cure, or debulking remains the first line of management in most cases. Current evidence suggests that in cases of growth hormone secreting microadenoma, surgery alone will result in achievement of ‘safe’ growth hormone levels in approximately 70-90% of patients. As per the Knosp criteria tumors that cross the lateral tangent of the intracavernous and supracavernous internal carotid arteries are classified as grades 3A, 3B or 4 and are considered invasive ( 273 , 274 ). Surgical remission rate falls when an invasive macroadenoma (<50%) or a giant adenoma (<20%) is present, in contrast to non-invasive tumors (76%). Those with the highest pre-operative growth hormone concentrations, large tumors, or ones with invasion of cavernous sinus are least likely to be ‘cured’ by surgery alone ( 275 ). Older age and lower GH levels are associated with likelihood of cure ( 276 ). There may circumstances where consideration could be given for the use of cabergoline for IGF-1 values below twice the upper limit of normal. Use of SSA could be considered pre-operatively in patients with an intention to reduce disease burden or tumor volume prior to surgery to facilitate intervention. Several biomarkers have been suggested to help guide response to first generation SSA. In a pre-operative patient T2 hypointense lesion is more likely to respond to SSA. Most of the other biomarkers are guided by histology outcome such as presence of densely granulated tumor, anti-Cam5.2 staining pattern, SSTR2a expression, and Ki-67 are well-established IHC biomarkers for response to first-generation SSA therapy ( 277 ). SSTR2a expression is also as useful marker for Pasireotide response ( 278 ). Other markers suggested to predict poor SSA response include low AIP expression, low zinc finger protein ZAC1 (a zinc finger protein expression), poor response during acute octreotide test, the presence of a gsp mutation, low expression of E-cadherin, the expression of sst5 and its truncated isoform (sst5TMD4), higher expression of miR-34a, the expression of β-arrestin, and Raf kinase expression, but these are not well validated ( 274 ). While presence of AIP expression is useful to guide use of first generation SSA, it does not seem to correlate with effectiveness of use of Pasireotide ( 279 ). There are no IHC markers to guide use of Pegvisomant, but patients with lower IGF-1 respond better ( 280 ). Figure 9. Algorithm for management of acromegaly: Colao 2019 . TREATMENT STRATEGY IN ACROMEGALY Figure 9
