Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


guide use of Pegvisomant, but patients with lower IGF-1 respond better ( 280 ). Figure 9. Algorithm for management of acromegaly: Colao 2019 . TREATMENT STRATEGY IN ACROMEGALY Figure 9 summarizes the initial and subsequent strategies and options used at each stage of patient management. Practical issues including medication and treatment availability, patient factors, and surgical expertise will each have an influence on treatment. Following confirmation of the diagnosis of acromegaly surgical treatment should be considered for all patients with a confirmed somatotroph adenoma ( 80 ). Current evidence suggests that in cases of growth hormone secreting microadenoma, surgery alone will result in achievement of ‘safe’ growth hormone levels in approximately 70-90% of patients. This figure falls when a macroadenoma (<50%) or a giant adenoma (<20%) is present. Those with the highest pre-operative growth hormone concentrations are least likely to be ‘cured’ by surgery alone. In those post-operative patients with continuing growth hormone excess, further treatment is indicated, and this can be medical or radiotherapy treatment. A second surgical procedure will result in ‘safe’ growth hormone levels in only 20% of patients. Recognizing that radiotherapy does not result in an instant lowering of growth hormone levels, medical treatment is commonly required, especially in the short-term. On average, two years following external beam irradiation growth hormone levels have decreased by approximately 50% with a further fall resulting in 75% reduction at 5 years. Newer stereotactic radiotherapy techniques, when used appropriately, may affect a more rapid reduction in growth hormone levels. However, since the tumor in such cases is usually a macroadenoma, we would only use radiosurgery as “salvage therapy” in the face of poor control of tumor secretion or regrowth following conventional radiotherapy. Available adjunctive medical options include the use of dopamine agonists, somatostatin analogs (first and second generation), and Pegvisomant. Bromocriptine will normalize growth hormone levels in only 10% of patients, although this may rise to 30% with cabergoline. Octreotide and lanreotide, particularly in their depot formulations which last 4-6 weeks, will normalize mean growth hormone levels in 70-80% of patients, and are therefore highly effective, albeit expensive. Pasireotide results in more potent GH lowering, and in many countries is becoming a key part of the treatment algorithm. The growth hormone receptor antagonist, Pegvisomant, is now well established and may be used in patients resistant to these agents. Periodic assessment with IGF-1 measurement and growth hormone profile testing should be
