Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


hormone receptor antagonist, Pegvisomant, is now well established and may be used in patients resistant to these agents. Periodic assessment with IGF-1 measurement and growth hormone profile testing should be performed at regular intervals to facilitate titration of doses and determine response to radiotherapy. Following irradiation it is reasonable to assess growth hormone status after appropriate discontinuation of medical therapies at 6-monthly intervals for 2 years and thereafter yearly. In all patients with acromegaly efforts should be made to optimize lung and cardiac function and particular attention be made to the management of cardiovascular risk factors including smoking, dyslipidemia, and abnormalities of carbohydrate metabolism. ‘Extra-hepatic acromegaly’ describes the concept that elevated GH concentration results in tissue specific pathological effects despite normalization of serum levels of IGF-1 ( 295 ). It has been postulated that combined use of SSA (to lower GH) and pegvisomant (to control IGF-1) may be the most appropriate strategy for patients who fall into this category. Treatment of Refractory Disease Acromegaly with invasive non-responsive adenoma, with either persistent GH excess or invasive adenoma is a rare and difficult management problem often needing multi-modal therapy. Table 7 summarizes data from studies reporting use of combination medical therapy in cases resistant to first line SSA therapy. Few studies have reported using higher dose Pegvisomant or Combination of Pegvisomant and Pasireotide in these refractory cases with good effect ( 281 , 282 ). Use of radiotherapy has been utilized for control of the tumor volume in aggressive disease, while others have considered using the alkylating agent temozolamide or even cytotoxic therapy ( 222 , 283 ). Management of Acromegaly in Pregnancy Pregnancy in a healthy non-pregnant female is associated with gradual decline in pituitary derived GH levels, as the placental GH levels rise throughout the pregnancy. IGF-1 levels initially tend to decrease due to enhanced estrogen effect on liver, but eventually the levels rise as an action of placental GH. These physiological changes seem to explain the relatively less aggressive or rather benign course of acromegaly in pregnancy ( 284 ). Infertility is more common in active disease, and patients often patients require treatment to achieve pregnancy. Evaluation of baseline tumor volume in a planned pregnancy is useful to safely plan monitoring during pregnancy. GH and IGF-1 levels are unreliable due to assay interference and are not routinely used to guide decision making ( 212 ). As a consequence of
