Acromegaly
KEYWORDS: acromegaly, pubmed, growth, patients, hormone, growth hormone, pituitary, endocrinol, igf-, levels, treatment, disease, clin, free, somatostatin


plan monitoring during pregnancy. GH and IGF-1 levels are unreliable due to assay interference and are not routinely used to guide decision making ( 212 ). As a consequence of physiological changes, prevalence of gestational diabetes and hypertension is higher in women with acromegaly, but this seems to correlate with the pre-pregnancy control and not the degree of rise of IGF-1 ( 285 ). For patients with macroadenoma, serial visual field testing is required during pregnancy. Patients with intractable headaches, cranial nerve deficits or visual manifestations are likely to require intervention. If MRI is required it is best undertaken as unenhanced study ( 212 ). As GH does not cross the placenta, no direct effect on the disease on fetus have been reported. Studies have shown that the tumor size does not usually increase during pregnancy ( 286 ). The current recommendations suggest all medical therapy should be ceased at diagnosis of pregnancy. If pregnancy is pre-planned it is recommended that long acting SSA are discontinued about two months prior to pregnancy and patient switched to short acting octreotide injections ( 151 , 287 ). Safety data for the use of SSA and Pegvisomant is not substantial, but the available evidence has not shown any significant impact on maternal or fetal outcomes. There are reports of SSA use being associated with small for gestation babies, without malformations and similar concerns with use of dopamine agonists ( 285 , 288 ). While there are concerns for premature delivery the data for use of Pegvisomant in pregnancy is more encouraging ( 289 ). NOVEL AGENTS IN THE TREATMENT OF ACROMEGALY A number of novel agents are in advanced stages of development for the medical treatment of acromegaly. These include agents that continue to work by the somatostatin mechanism as well as new mechanisms of action. Developments in the understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of growth hormone excess and pituitary tumor development have led to the identification of novel targets for drug development. New treatments need to be safe and well tolerated, as well as effective and importantly cost effective. An anti-sense oligonucleotide has been developed directed against the growth hormone receptor. Early clinical trial data suggests that this strategy may prove effective in reducing growth hormone signaling and IGF-1 generation in patients with acromegaly ( 290 ). The drug was well tolerated in an early clinical trial with injection site reactions the
