Classification of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, type, glucose, type diabetes, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, resistance, insulin resistance, gdm, diagnosis, genetic, hour, syndrome, mmol


+ Deceased ABSTRACT Diabetes is a heterogeneous, complex metabolic disorder characterized by elevated blood glucose concentrations secondary to either resistance to the action of insulin, insufficient insulin secretion, or both. The most common classifications include Type 1 diabetes mellitus, Type 2 diabetes mellitus, and gestational diabetes. Type 2 diabetes (T2DM) is characterized by insulin resistance and a relative deficiency of insulin secretion. The absolute plasma insulin concentration (both fasting and meal-stimulated) usually is increased, although "relative" to the severity of insulin resistance, the plasma insulin concentration is insufficient to maintain normal glucose homeostasis. Insulin secretion capacity progressively worsens over time in most patients with T2DM. Type 1 DM results in an absolute deficiency in beta-cell function in most. Autoimmune destruction of beta-cells is a common origin, though cases continue to be classified as idiopathic. Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is defined as glucose intolerance which is first recognized during pregnancy. In most women who develop GDM, the disorder has its onset in the third trimester of pregnancy and patients with GDM have a high risk of developing T2DM later in life. Other causes of diabetes include genetic disorders, diseases that cause damage to the pancreas, as well as an excess of certain hormones such as growth hormone and glucocorticoids. Diabetes mellitus may also be due to drugs, chemicals, or infections. Proper classification of the type of diabetes often helps determine appropriate therapy. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG CLASSIFICATION OF DIABETES ( Table 1 ) Diabetes is a heterogeneous complex metabolic disorder characterized by elevated blood glucose concentration secondary to either resistance to the action of insulin, insufficient insulin secretion, or both [1 ]. The major clinical manifestation of the diabetic state is hyperglycemia. However, insulin deficiency and/or insulin resistance also are associated with abnormalities in lipid and protein metabolism, and with mineral and electrolyte disturbances. The vast majority of diabetic patients are classified into one of two broad categories: type 1 diabetes mellitus, which is caused by an absolute or near absolute deficiency of insulin, or type 2 diabetes mellitus, which is characterized by the presence of insulin resistance with an inadequate compensatory increase in insulin secretion. In addition, women who develop diabetes during their pregnancy are classified as having gestational diabetes. Finally, there are a variety of uncommon and diverse types of diabetes, which are caused by infections, drugs,
