Classification of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, type, glucose, type diabetes, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, resistance, insulin resistance, gdm, diagnosis, genetic, hour, syndrome, mmol


developing type 1 DM increases with the number of positive markers. Two positive antibodies are associated with a 75% chance of developing diabetes in the next 10 years [4a]. Diagnostic staging is now available for individuals with autoimmunity, even prior to diagnosis of type 1 DM. ( Table 2 ) [4b]. While this form of diabetes usually occurs in children and adolescents, it can occur at any age. Younger individuals typically have a rapid rate of beta-cell destruction and present with ketoacidosis, while adults often maintain sufficient insulin secretion to prevent ketoacidosis for many years [5 ] . The more indolent adult-onset variety has been referred to as latent autoimmune diabetes in adults (LADA). There is still controversy whether adult type 1 DM and LADA are the same clinical entity, but LADA patients are antibody positive and often require insulin therapy within years of diagnosis. Idiopathic forms of type 1 DM often are of African or Asian descent. An intermittent risk of diabetic ketoacidosis, based on their varying insulinopenia, is present [4a]. Eventually, all type 1 diabetic patients will require insulin therapy to maintain normoglycemia. For additional information see the chapters that discuss in detail the pathogenesis of type 1 diabetes [5a, 5b]. Table 2 Staging of Type 1 DM [4b] View in own window Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Phenotypic characteristics -Autoimmunity -Normoglycemia -Presymptomatic -Automimmunity -Dysglycemia -Presymptomatic -New onset Hyperglycemia -Symptomatic Diagnostic criteria -2 or more islet autoantibodies -No impaired glucose tolerance or impaired fasting glucose -2 or more islet autoantibodies -Dysglycemia: impaired fasting glucose and/or impaired glucose tolerance: FPG 100-125mg/dl and/or 2-hour plasma glucose 140-199mg/dl A1C 5.7-6.4% or a ≥10% increase in A1C -Clinical symptoms -Diabetes by standard criteria TYPE 2 DIABETES MELLLITUS Type 2 diabetes is characterized by insulin resistance and, at least initially, a relative deficiency of insulin secretion [6, 7 ]. In absolute terms, the plasma insulin concentration (both fasting and meal-stimulated) usually is increased, although "relative" to the severity of insulin resistance, the plasma insulin concentration is insufficient to maintain normal glucose homeostasis [8, 9 ]. With time, however, there is progressive beta cell failure and worsening insulin deficiency ensues. Recently, more sophisticated analyses of the beta-cell response and regulation revealed that most subjects at risk for developing type 2 diabetes, i.e. those with combined impaired fasting glucose and impaired glucose tolerance already have a significant loss, close to 80% of the total
