Classification of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, type, glucose, type diabetes, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, resistance, insulin resistance, gdm, diagnosis, genetic, hour, syndrome, mmol


subjects at risk for developing type 2 diabetes, i.e. those with combined impaired fasting glucose and impaired glucose tolerance already have a significant loss, close to 80% of the total insulin secretory capacity of the pancreas [10 ]. In a minority of type 2 diabetic individuals, severe insulinopenia is present at the time of diagnosis and insulin sensitivity is normal or near normal [11 ] . Most individuals with type 2 diabetes exhibit intra-abdominal (visceral) obesity [12], which is part of the “ectopic fat” deposition pattern closely related to the presence of insulin resistance [13 ] . In addition, hypertension, dyslipidemia (high triglyceride and low HDL-cholesterol levels; postprandial hyperlipemia), vascular endothelial dysfunction [14 ] and elevated PAI-1 levels often are present in these individuals. This clustering of abnormalities is referred to as the "insulin resistance syndrome" or the "metabolic syndrome" [15, 16 ] . Because of these abnormalities, patients with type 2 diabetes are at increased risk of developing atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) with macrovascular complications (myocardial infarction and stroke). Type 2 diabetes has a strong genetic predisposition and is more common in minority ethnic groups, e.g. Mexican-Americans, Latinos, African Americans, American Indians, Pacific Islanders, than in individuals of European ancestry. The genetic cause(s) of the common variety of type 2 diabetes is (are) not well defined. A large number of genes have been associated with type 2 DM, but they explain a low percentage of the disease heritability. [4a, 17, 18 ] . For additional information see the chapter that discusses in detail the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes [18a]. GESTATIONAL DIABETES MELLITUS (GDM) Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is defined as glucose intolerance which is first recognized during pregnancy. In most women who develop GDM, the disorder has its onset in the third trimester of pregnancy. At least 6 weeks after the pregnancy ends, the woman should receive an oral glucose tolerance test and be reclassified as having diabetes, normal glucose tolerance, impaired glucose tolerance, or impaired fasting glucose. Gestational diabetes complicates about 8-9% of all pregnancies, though the rates may double in populations at high-risk for type 2 diabetes [19 ] . Clinical detection is important, since therapy will reduce perinatal morbidity and mortality. Dysglycemia risk in GDM is a continuum, and risk assessment for GDM should occur at the first prenatal visit. Two groups, the International Association of Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Groups(IADPSG) and the National Institutes
