Classification of Diabetes Mellitus
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, type, glucose, type diabetes, mellitus, diabetes mellitus, resistance, insulin resistance, gdm, diagnosis, genetic, hour, syndrome, mmol


the same thick, viscous secretions cause inflammation, obstruction, and destruction of small ducts in the pancreas, which can lead to insulin deficiency. Hemochromatosis has also been associated with impaired insulin secretion and diabetes. Endocrinopathies Since growth hormone, cortisol, glucagon, and epinephrine increase hepatic glucose production and induce insulin resistance in peripheral (muscle) tissues, excess production of these hormones can cause or exacerbate underlying diabetes [31, 32, 33 ] . Although the primary mechanism of action of these counter regulatory hormones is the induction of insulin resistance in muscle and liver, overt diabetes mellitus does not develop in the absence of beta cell failure. Infections A variety of infections have been etiologically related to the development of diabetes mellitus. Of these, the most clearly established is congenital rubella [34 ] . Approximately 20% of infants who are infected with the rubella virus at birth develop autoimmune type 1 diabetes later in life. These individuals have the typical type 1 susceptibility genotype, DR3/DR4. Drugs A large number of commonly used drugs have been shown to induce insulin resistance and/or impair beta cell function and can lead to the development of diabetes mellitus in susceptible individuals. An extensive review of these drugs and their mechanism of action has been published [35,36]. Drug classes which have been extensively associated with elevating glucose levels include: beta-blockers, thiazide diuretics, fluoroquinolones, atypical or second generation anti-psychotics, calcineurin inhibitors, protease inhibitors, nicotinic acid, and corticosteroids. In addition, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) have been shown to cause a small increase in the risk of diabetes, though the exact mechanisms of how it may increase the risk of diabetes are not completely understood [37]. For additional information on these unusual etiologies of diabetes see the chapter on Atypical Forms of Diabetes and Diabetes Mellitus After Solid Organ Transplantation [37a, 37b]. REFERENCES Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes Mellitus: Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes. Diabetes Care 41 (Suppl 1): S13-S27, 2018. Thomas CC, Philipson LH. Update on diabetes classification. Med Clin N Am 2015; 99:1-16. Pihoker C, Gilliam LK, Hampe CS, Lernmark A. Autoantibodies in Diabetes. Diabetes 2005;54(suppl2): S52-S61. Atkinson MA, Eisenbarth GS. Type I diabetes: new perspectives on disease pathogenesis and treatment. Lancet 358:221-229, 2001. 4a. Skylar JS, Bakris GL, Bonifacio E, Darsow T, Eckel RH, Groop L, Groop P-H. Differentiation of diabetes by pathophysiology, natural history, and prognosis. Diabetes 66:241-255, 2017 4b. Insel RA, Dunne JL, Atkinson MA, Chiang
