Cardiac Auscultation
KEYWORDS: stenosis, murmurs, mitral, valve, heart, ventricular, diastolic, sound, murmur, regurgitation, aortic, left, sounds, pulmonic, right


cycle, noting each heart sound and murmur. Intensity, pitch, duration, and timing of the sounds and the intervals between them are analyzed, often providing an accurate diagnosis. Historically, a diagram of the major auscultatory and palpatory findings of the precordium was drawn in the patient’s chart each time the patient’s cardiovascular system was examined (see figure Diagram of Physical Findings). With such diagrams, findings from each examination could be compared. Subsequent examination findings should be interpreted in the context of available imaging results (including echocardiogram and cardiac MRI) to diagnose and monitor valvular and other abnormalities. 2/15 Diagram of Physical Findings in a Patient With Aortic Stenosis and Mitral Regurgitation Murmur, character, intensity, and radiation are depicted. Sound of pulmonic closure exceeds that of aortic closure. Left ventricular (LV) thrust and right ventricular (RV) lift (heavy arrows) are identified. A fourth heart sound (S ) and systolic thrill (T ) are present. a = aortic closure sound; p 4 S = pulmonic closure sound; S = first heart sound; S = second heart sound; 3/6 = grade of 1 2 crescendo-diminuendo murmur (radiates to both sides of neck); 2/6 =grade of pansystolic apical crescendo murmur; 1+ = mild precordial lift of RV hypertrophy (arrow shows direction of lift); 2 += moderate LV thrust (arrow shows direction of thrust). Systolic heart sounds Systolic sounds include the following: First heart sound (S1) Clicks S1 and the second heart sound (S2, a diastolic heart sound) are normal components of the cardiac cycle, the familiar “lub-dub” sounds. S1 occurs just after the beginning of systole and is predominantly due to mitral closure but may also include tricuspid closure components. It is often split and has a high pitch. S1 is loud in mitral stenosis. 3/15 It may be soft or absent in mitral regurgitation due to valve leaflet sclerosis and rigidity but is often distinctly heard in mitral regurgitation due to myxomatous degeneration of the mitral apparatus or due to ventricular myocardial abnormality (eg, papillary muscle dysfunction, ventricular dilation). S1 is often soft or absent in first-degree atrioventricular block as the atrioventricular valve leaflets (mitral and tricuspid) drift to a nearly closed position prior to ventricular systole. Clicks occur only during systole; they are distinguished from S1 and S2 by their higher pitch and briefer duration. Some clicks occur at different times during systole as hemodynamics change. Clicks may be single or multiple. Clicks
