Cardiac Auscultation
KEYWORDS: stenosis, murmurs, mitral, valve, heart, ventricular, diastolic, sound, murmur, regurgitation, aortic, left, sounds, pulmonic, right


distinguished from S1 and S2 by their higher pitch and briefer duration. Some clicks occur at different times during systole as hemodynamics change. Clicks may be single or multiple. Clicks in congenital aortic stenosis or pulmonic stenosis are thought to result from abnormal ventricular wall tension. These clicks occur early in systole (very near S1) and are not affected by hemodynamic changes. Similar clicks occur in severe pulmonary hypertension. Clicks in mitral valve prolapse or tricuspid valve prolapse, typically occurring in mid to late systole, are thought to result from abnormal tension on redundant and elongated chordae tendineae or valve leaflets. Clicks due to myxomatous degeneration of valves may occur any time during systole but move toward S1 during maneuvers that transiently decrease ventricular filling volume (eg, standing, Valsalva maneuver). If ventricular filling volume is increased (eg, by lying supine), clicks move toward S2, particularly in mitral valve prolapse. For unknown reasons, characteristics of the clicks may vary greatly between examinations, and clicks may come and go. Systolic Heart Sounds Split First Heart Sound S1 splitting is normal in many patients and is thought to be caused by mitral valve closure followed by an aortic ejection sound. Recording provided by Jules Constant, MD. Pulmonary Ejection Click High pulmonary artery pressures may dilate the pulmonary artery, stretching the valve ring and causing a click when taut cusps open rapidly. Recording provided by Jules Constant, MD. Split Second Heart Sound 4/15 Sound is that of S1–S2 with expiration (“out”) and S1–A2–P2 with inspiration (“in”). S2 splits with inspiration because intrathoracic pressure decreases, drawing more blood into the right ventricle and postponing pulmonic valve closure. Recording provided by Jules Constant, MD. Diastolic heart sounds Diastolic sounds include the following: Second, third, and fourth heart sounds (S2, S3, and S4) Diastolic knocks Mitral valve sounds Unlike systolic sounds, diastolic sounds are low-pitched; they are softer in intensity and longer in duration. Except for S2, these sounds are usually abnormal in adults, although an S3 may be physiologic up to age 40 years and during pregnancy. S2 occurs at the beginning of diastole, and includes aortic and pulmonic valve closure. Normally, aortic valve closure (A2) precedes pulmonic valve closure (P2), with a greater delay in P2 during inspiration due to increased right ventricular filling. When P2 is delayed enough to be audibly distinct from A2, it produces splitting of S2. The change in this delay
