Cardiac Auscultation
KEYWORDS: stenosis, murmurs, mitral, valve, heart, ventricular, diastolic, sound, murmur, regurgitation, aortic, left, sounds, pulmonic, right


P2 during inspiration due to increased right ventricular filling. When P2 is delayed enough to be audibly distinct from A2, it produces splitting of S2. The change in this delay with respiration causes physiologic splitting of S2, with the split typically audible only during inspiration. In some conditions in which pulmonic valve closure is delayed (eg, complete right bundle branch block, pulmonic valve stenosis), S2 is widely split but still varies with the respiratory cycle. With an atrial septal defect of the common secundum type, P2 is delayed but does not vary with respiration, resulting in a wide fixed split of S2. Left-to-right shunts with normal right ventricular volume (eg, ventricular septal defects) do not cause fixed splitting. If aortic valve closure is late (as in left bundle branch block or aortic stenosis), S2 may split in expiration and be single in inspiration when the delayed P2 occurs at the same time as the delayed A2; this is known as paradoxical splitting. Finally, a single S2 may occur when the aortic valve is regurgitant, severely stenotic, or atretic (or in truncus arteriosus when there is a single common valve). Diastolic Heart Sounds Split Second Heart Sound in Left Bundle Branch Block Sound is that of paradoxical splitting, ie, S1–P2–A2 at rest (“out”) and S1–S2 with inspiration (“in”). Left bundle branch block delays aortic valve closure, so that split is audible at rest; inspiration decreases intrathoracic pressure, drawing more blood into the right ventricle and postponing pulmonic valve closure until it is superimposed on A2 and splitting becomes inaudible. Recording provided by Jules Constant, MD. 5/15 Split Second Heart Sound in Right Bundle Branch Block Sound is that of wide splitting, ie, S1–A2–P2 at rest (“out”) with an even wider A2–P2 interval with inspiration (“in”). Right bundle branch block delays pulmonic valve closure so that S2 splitting becomes audible at rest. Inspiration decreases intrathoracic pressure, drawing more blood into the right ventricle and postponing pulmonic valve closure even more, so that the normal split becomes wider. Recording provided by Jules Constant, MD. Split Second Heart Sound With Atrial Septal Defect Sound is that of fixed second heart sound (S2) splitting, ie, S1–A2–P2 at rest (“out”) and with inspiration (“in”). Splitting is fixed because the volume of flow through the right ventricle is increased throughout the respiratory cycle, eliminating the normal delay in closure of the pulmonic valve associated with inspiration. Recording
