Cardiac Auscultation
KEYWORDS: stenosis, murmurs, mitral, valve, heart, ventricular, diastolic, sound, murmur, regurgitation, aortic, left, sounds, pulmonic, right


fixed because the volume of flow through the right ventricle is increased throughout the respiratory cycle, eliminating the normal delay in closure of the pulmonic valve associated with inspiration. Recording provided by Jules Constant, MD. Third Heart Sound Sound is that of S1–S2–S3. Recording provided by Jules Constant, MD. Fourth Heart Sound Sound is that of S4–S1–S2. Recording provided by Jules Constant, MD. Summation Gallop Sound is that of S4–S1–S2–S3 in rapid succession. Recording provided by Jules Constant, MD. Diastolic Knock A diastolic knock is a loud third heart sound (S3) caused by constrictive pericarditis. Recording provided by Jules Constant, MD. 6/15 Mitral Valve Opening Snap Sound is that of S1–A2–OS with a relatively long A2–OS interval. The opening snap (OS), most commonly caused by mitral stenosis, is thought to be caused by abrupt downward bulging (snapping) of the anterior leaflet as left ventricular pressure drops below left atrial pressure during diastole. A2–OS can be distinguished from a split S2 by dynamic maneuvers (OS intensity increases with inspiration, A2–OS interval widens with standing), a triple S2 (ie, A2–P2–OS), and a louder volume at the apex. Recording provided by Jules Constant, MD. S3 occurs in early diastole, when the ventricle is dilated and noncompliant. It occurs during passive diastolic ventricular filling and usually indicates serious ventricular dysfunction in adults; in children, it can be normal, sometimes persisting even to age 40 years. S3 also may be normal during pregnancy. Right ventricular S3 is heard best (sometimes only) during inspiration (because negative intrathoracic pressure augments right ventricular filling volume) with the patient supine. Left ventricular S3 is best heard during expiration (because the heart is nearer the chest wall) with the patient in the left lateral decubitus position. S4 is produced by augmented ventricular filling, caused by atrial contraction, near the end of diastole. It is similar to S3 and heard best or only with the bell of the stethoscope. During inspiration, right ventricular S4 increases and left ventricular S4 decreases. S4 is heard much more often than S3 and indicates a lesser degree of ventricular dysfunction, usually diastolic. S4 is absent in atrial fibrillation (because the atria do not contract) but is almost always present in active myocardial ischemia or soon after myocardial infarction. Whereas S3 can be a normal finding, S4 is always abnormal. S3, with or without S4, is usual in significant systolic left ventricular dysfunction; S4 without S3
