Cardiac Auscultation
KEYWORDS: stenosis, murmurs, mitral, valve, heart, ventricular, diastolic, sound, murmur, regurgitation, aortic, left, sounds, pulmonic, right


after myocardial infarction. Whereas S3 can be a normal finding, S4 is always abnormal. S3, with or without S4, is usual in significant systolic left ventricular dysfunction; S4 without S3 is usual in diastolic left ventricular dysfunction. A summation gallop occurs when S3 and S4 are present in a patient with tachycardia, which shortens diastole so that the 2 sounds merge. Loud S3 and S4 may be palpable at the apex when the patient is in the left lateral decubitus position. A diastolic knock occurs at the same time as S3, in early diastole. It is not accompanied by S4 and is a louder, thudding sound, which indicates abrupt arrest of ventricular filling by a noncompliant, constricting pericardium. An opening snap (OS) may occur in early diastole in mitral stenosis or, rarely, in tricuspid stenosis. Mitral opening snap is very high pitched, brief, and heard best with the diaphragm of the stethoscope. The more severe mitral stenosis is (ie, the higher the left atrial pressure), the closer the opening snap is to the pulmonic component of S2. Intensity is related to the compliance of the valve leaflets: The snap sounds loud when leaflets remain elastic, but it gradually softens and ultimately disappears as sclerosis, fibrosis, and calcification of the valve develop. Mitral opening snap, although sometimes heard at the apex, is often heard best or only at the lower left sternal border. Approach to murmurs 7/15 Timing of the murmur in the cardiac cycle correlates with the cause (see table Etiology of Murmurs by Timing); auscultatory findings correlate with specific heart valve disorders. Various maneuvers (eg, inspiration, Valsalva, handgrip, squatting, amyl nitrate inhalation) can modify cardiac physiology slightly, making differentiation of causes of heart murmur possible (see table Maneuvers That Aid in Diagnosis of Murmurs). TABLE Etiology of Murmurs by Timing Timing Associated Disorders Outflow obstruction (aortic sclerosis, aortic stenosis, coarctation of the aorta, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, subvalvular stenosis, supravalvular stenosis) Dilation of ascending aorta (aneurysm of aorta, aortitis, atheroma ) Dilation of pulmonary artery Increased blood flow across the aortic Mid systolic (ejection) valve (aortic regurgitation, hyperkinetic states) Increased blood flow across the pulmonic valve (hyperkinetic states, left- to-right shunt due to atrial septal defect, ventricular septal defect) Pulmonic obstruction (infundibular stenosis, pulmonic stenosis, supravalvular pulmonary artery stenosis, branch pulmonary artery stenosis) Mitral valve prolapse Mid-late systolic Papillary muscle dysfunction Mitral regurgitation Holosystolic Tricuspid regurgitation Ventricular septal defect Early diastolic
