Cardiac Auscultation
KEYWORDS: stenosis, murmurs, mitral, valve, heart, ventricular, diastolic, sound, murmur, regurgitation, aortic, left, sounds, pulmonic, right


Augments murmurs of aortic stenosis, aortic regurgitation (after 4 or 5 beats), and pulmonic Release of Valsalva Increases volume of RV regurgitation or pulmonic maneuver and left ventricle (LV) stenosis* (immediately) Reduces murmur of tricuspid stenosis Augments murmurs of aortic regurgitation, aortic stenosis, mitral Simultaneously increases regurgitation and diastolic venous return to the right murmur of mitral stenosis Squatting heart and increases afterload and peripheral Reduces murmur of resistance hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy and mitral valve prolapse Augments murmur of hypertrophic obstructive Increases intrathoracic cardiomyopathy and pressure, which reduces mitral valve prolapse size of LV; decreases Valsalva maneuver venous return to the right Reduces murmurs of heart and subsequently to aortic stenosis, mitral the left heart regurgitation, and tricuspid stenosis 11/15 * Patient may need to be standing for effect on pulmonic stenosis to be heard. All patients with heart murmurs are evaluated by chest radiography and electrocardiography (ECG). Echocardiography is required to confirm the diagnosis, determine severity, and track severity over time. Usually, a cardiac consultation is obtained if significant disease is suspected. Systolic murmurs Systolic murmurs may be normal or abnormal. They may be early, mid, or late systolic, or holosystolic (pansystolic). Systolic murmurs may be divided into ejection, regurgitant, and shunt murmurs. Ejection murmurs are due to turbulent forward flow through narrowed or irregular valves or outflow tracts (eg, due to aortic stenosis or pulmonic stenosis). They are typically mid systolic and have a crescendo-diminuendo character that usually becomes louder and longer as flow becomes more obstructed. The greater the stenosis and turbulence, the longer the crescendo phase and the shorter the diminuendo phase. Systolic ejection murmurs may occur without hemodynamically significant outflow tract obstruction (called innocent or functional murmurs) and thus do not necessarily indicate a disorder. In normal infants and children, flow is often mildly turbulent, producing these soft ejection murmurs. (A Still murmur is a vibratory, systolic, innocent murmur thought to be caused by vibration of the chordae tendineae of the mitral valve.) Older patients often have ejection murmurs due to valve and vessel sclerosis. During pregnancy, many women have soft ejection murmurs at the second intercostal space to the left or right of the sternum. The murmurs occur because a physiologic increase in blood volume and cardiac output increases flow velocity through normal structures. The murmurs may be greatly exaggerated if severe anemia complicates the pregnancy. These murmurs are distinct from the venous hum
