Cardiac Auscultation
KEYWORDS: stenosis, murmurs, mitral, valve, heart, ventricular, diastolic, sound, murmur, regurgitation, aortic, left, sounds, pulmonic, right


volume and cardiac output increases flow velocity through normal structures. The murmurs may be greatly exaggerated if severe anemia complicates the pregnancy. These murmurs are distinct from the venous hum sometimes caused by engorged breast vessels during pregnancy (mammary souffle). Regurgitant murmurs represent retrograde flow (eg, due to mitral regurgitation, tricuspid regurgitation). A similar murmur can occur with a ventricular septal defect. Both are typically holosystolic and tend to be louder with high-velocity, low-volume regurgitation or shunts and softer with high-volume regurgitation or shunts. AUDIO Mitral Valve Prolapse Late systolic murmurs, which may or may not be preceded by a click, are typical of mitral valve prolapse or papillary muscle dysfunction. Shunt murmurs may originate at the site of the shunt (eg, patent ductus arteriosus, ventricular septal defect) or result from altered hemodynamics remote from the shunt (eg, pulmonic systolic flow murmur due to an atrial septal defect with left-to-right shunt). Atrial shunt murmurs are rarely, if ever, audible. 12/15 AUDIO Mitral Valve Prolapse (With Late-Systolic Click) Various maneuvers are usually required for more accurate diagnosis of timing and type of murmur (see table Maneuvers That Aid in Diagnosis of Murmurs). Systolic Murmurs Aortic Stenosis Murmur The 6th beat is a ventricular premature beat (VPB). The 7th beat illustrates post-VPB potentiation of the murmur due to increased left ventricular filling during the post-VPB compensatory pause. Recording provided by Jules Constant, MD. Pulmonary Stenosis Murmur The murmur becomes audible only with inspiration (“in”) because inspiration decreases intrathoracic pressure, drawing more blood into the right ventricle and increasing right ventricular outflow. Recording provided by Jules Constant, MD. Mitral Regurgitation Murmur This holosystolic mitral regurgitation murmur maintains the same intensity throughout systole and extends from S1 to S2. Recording provided by Jules Constant, MD. Ventricular Septal Defect Murmur The murmur of a ventricular septal defect is similar to that of mitral regurgitation but is louder at the left lower sternal border than at the apex. Recording provided by Jules Constant, MD. Diastolic murmurs 13/15 Diastolic murmurs are always abnormal; most are early or mid diastolic, but they may be late diastolic (presystolic). Early diastolic murmurs are typically due to aortic regurgitation or pulmonic regurgitation. Mid diastolic (or early to mid diastolic) murmurs are typically due to mitral stenosis or tricuspid stenosis. In a patient in sinus rhythm, a late diastolic murmur may be due to rheumatic mitral stenosis. A mitral or tricuspid murmur
