Cardiac Auscultation
KEYWORDS: stenosis, murmurs, mitral, valve, heart, ventricular, diastolic, sound, murmur, regurgitation, aortic, left, sounds, pulmonic, right


typically due to mitral stenosis or tricuspid stenosis. In a patient in sinus rhythm, a late diastolic murmur may be due to rheumatic mitral stenosis. A mitral or tricuspid murmur due to an atrial tumor or thrombus may be evanescent and may vary with position and from one examination to the next because the position of the intracardiac mass changes. Pearls & Pitfalls Systolic murmurs may be normal or abnormal, but diastolic murmurs are always abnormal. Continuous murmurs Continuous murmurs occur throughout the cardiac cycle. They are always abnormal, indicating shunt flow throughout systole and diastole, hence remaining audible through S2. They may be due to various cardiac defects (see table Etiology of Murmurs by Timing). Some defects produce a thrill; many are associated with signs of right or left ventricular hypertrophy. As pulmonary artery resistance increases in shunt lesions, the diastolic component gradually decreases. When pulmonary and systemic resistance equalize, the murmur may disappear. Patent ductus arteriosus murmurs are loudest at the second intercostal space just below the medial end of the left clavicle. Aortopulmonary window murmurs are central and heard at the third intercostal space level. Murmurs of systemic arteriovenous fistulas are best heard directly over the lesions; those of pulmonic arteriovenous fistulas and pulmonary artery branch stenosis are more diffuse and heard throughout the chest. AUDIO Patent Ductus Arteriosus Murmurs When circulation is increased, as occurs during pregnancy, anemia, and hyperthyroidism, a continuous venous hum is often heard in the right supraclavicular fossa; this venous hum also occurs normally in children. The sound generated by increased flow in a dilated internal mammary artery (mammary souffle), may be mistaken for a continuous cardiac murmur. Mammary souffle is typically heard best over the breast at the level of the right and/or left second or third intercostal space and, although often classified as continuous, is usually louder during systole. Pericardial friction rub A pericardial friction rub is caused by movement of inflammatory adhesions between visceral and parietal pericardial layers. It is a high-pitched or squeaking sound; it may be systolic, diastolic and systolic, or triphasic (when atrial contraction accentuates the diastolic component during late diastole). 14/15 The rub sounds like pieces of leather squeaking as they are rubbed together. Rubs are best heard with the patient leaning forward or on hands and knees with breath held in expiration.
