The Korean Journal of Hepatology 2012;18:1-21
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, treatment, hepatic, ascites, bleeding, encephalopathy, variceal, therapy, cirrhosis, varices, recommended, hepatology, syndrome, hepatic encephalopathy


(low-quality evidence). hepatitis B (CHB), alcohol, and chronic hepatitis C (CHC). The strength of recommendation has been classified into 2 In patients with complications such as ascites, variceal categories: strong and weak (Table 1). Where there was no bleeding, and encephalopathy, the 5-year survival rates were clear evidence, the recommendations were based on the 32%, 21%, and 40%, respectively, reflecting the poor consensus expert opinion(s) in literature and that of the guideline appropriate for the medical milieu of Korea is 1. Diagnosis of LC important for both patients and clinicians. In 2005, the Korean Association for the Study of the Liver LC is a pathologically defined disease, and is clinically established a guideline for the treatment of LC that is now classified as compensated and decompensated LC. Decom- widely used. However, it is currently necessary to revise and pensated LC includes cases with ascites, variceal bleeding, over the past 6 years regarding the diagnosis, treatment, and diagnosing LC are CT, abdominal ultrasound, and MRI. prevention of LC. Therefore, the Korean Association for the Typical findings of these images are nodular liver surface, Study of the Liver undertook a revision and update of splenomegaly, and the presence of intra-abdominal collateral Cirrhosis Clinical Research Center. This guideline was based Although there are not established criteria for the diagnosis on an interdisciplinary (hepatology, radiology, pathology, and of compensated LC, imaging studies may be helpful for the preventive medicine) approach. A panel of experts selected diagnosis of LC b y integrating laboratory findings such as by the Korean Association for the Study of the Liver and albumin, bilirubin, or prothrombin time and platelet values. Liver Cirrhosis Clinical Research Center met several times to discuss and write this guideline during 2005-2011. This 1-1. Diagnostic approach-patient history, physical guideline was written in light of published studies retrieved examination, and laboratory tests from MEDLINE, EMBASE, and Cochrane Library. The When dealing with patients with LC, evaluation of the panel aimed to address 5 subjects: diagnosis of LC, anti- cause, severity, and stage is the first step. In patients with fibrotic therapy for LC, variceal bleeding, ascites, and hepatic chronic liver disease, history taking (drug use, blood transfusion, encephalopathy. or alcohol use), physical examination (jaundice, ascites, Table 1. Grading evidence and recommendations Evidence Notes High quality Further research is very unlikely to change our confidence in the estimate of effect A Moderate quality Further research is likely to
