The Korean Journal of Hepatology 2012;18:1-21
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, treatment, hepatic, ascites, bleeding, encephalopathy, variceal, therapy, cirrhosis, varices, recommended, hepatology, syndrome, hepatic encephalopathy


Grading evidence and recommendations Evidence Notes High quality Further research is very unlikely to change our confidence in the estimate of effect A Moderate quality Further research is likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect and B may change the estimate Low quality Further research is very likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect C and is likely to change the estimate. Any change of estimate is uncertain Recommendation Notes Strong Factors influencing the strength of the recommendation included the quality of the evidence, presumed 1 patient-important outcomes, and cost Weak Variability in preferences and values, or more uncertainty. Recommendation is made with less 2 certainty, higher cost or resource consumption spider angioma, hepatomegaly, or splenomegaly), and symptom 1-3. Pathological diagnosis of liver cirrhosis such as fatigue from hepatitis should be assessed. In patients The gold standard for confirming the diagnosis of LC is with LC, a whole blood test including platelet count, liver liver biopsy, but it is invasive and susceptible to a sampling function test (albumin, aspartate aminotransferase, alanine error and inter-observer discrepancy. Therefore, liver biopsy transpeptidase), prothrombin time, abdominal ultrasound, can be carried out selectively for evaluating activity of the abdominal CT, and endoscopy should be carried out to underlying disease and fibrosis. Particularly, when cirrhosis laboratory tests for hepatitis B or C virus infection are not compatible with laboratory data, a liver biopsy is needed for the evaluation of its cause. Generally, the Child- especially helpful for diagnosing LC.11 Pugh score is used to assess the severity of LC. In clinical practice for the diagnosis of LC, findings of portal hyper- 1-4. Others tension such as ascites, hepatic encephalopathy, or varices, The serum markers for liver fibrosis directly or indirectly imaging findings, and laboratory findings are common reflect extracellular matrix metabolism. However, their the liver surface, a platelet count of less than 100,000/mm3, FibroScan has been introduced to measure liver elasticity albumin less than 3.5 g/dL, and an international normalized noninvasively and is an objective diagnostic tool for the ratio of 1.3 or more are related to the presence of LC. diagnosis of LC. However, there is no exact guideline on Presence of one condition of these findings showed a how to apply it clinically, and there is some variation in its specificity of 90.42% and a sensitivity of 61.11%.1 diagnostic accuracy
