The Korean Journal of Hepatology 2012;18:1-21
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, treatment, hepatic, ascites, bleeding, encephalopathy, variceal, therapy, cirrhosis, varices, recommended, hepatology, syndrome, hepatic encephalopathy


of one condition of these findings showed a how to apply it clinically, and there is some variation in its specificity of 90.42% and a sensitivity of 61.11%.1 diagnostic accuracy for the diagnosis of LC. Therefore, the practical use of FibroScan is limited. 1-2. Imaging modalities for the diagnosis of LC Abdominal ultrasound is safe and less expensive, and it Recommendations can be easily used as a screening test for the diagnosis of LC. 1. What test is needed for the diagnosis of LC in patients with Abdominal ultrasound confirms the size of the liver, chronic liver disease? - Find evidence for LC by history taking and physical echogenicity of the liver parenchyme, morphological examination. (A1) changes of the liver, ascites, and thrombus of the portal vein. - In patients with chronic liver disease, to find LC, the Typical ultrasound finding of LC is a coarse echo pattern by following tests are recommended and the findings in parentheses should be checked. (A1) fibrosis and regeneration. This finding ranges from mild (1) Complete blood count with platelet count coarsening to visible nodules. The accuracy of CT in (thrombocytopenia) diagnosing LC is 66-95%.2-6 The most important CT finding (2) Liver function test (hypoalbuminemia) for the diagnosis of LC is nodularity caused by regenerative (3) Prolonged prothrombin time (4) Imaging studies (nodularity of liver surface and nodules, fibrosis scars, and lobar non-uniform atrophy and findings of LC) hypertrophy. Nodularity of the liver surface showed a (5) Endoscopy (presence of varices) specificity of 95%.2-4,7 Additionally, other radiologic findings - The cause of LC should be examined including hepatitis B virus and hepatitis C virus tests. (A1) such as splenomegaly, blunt angle, morphological changes - The severity of LC could be assessed by Child-Pugh (nodularity of liver surface, atrophy of right lobe, hypertrophy classification with score. (B1) of left and caudate lobe, expansion of periportal space, and 2. Which findings are compatible with the diagnosis of LC in intrahepatic nodule), velocity of portal flow, shape of the imaging studies? hepatic vein waveform (Doppler test),2,4,8 and caudate - For the diagnosis of LC, compatible findings of imaging lobe/right lobe ratio (CT or MRI) are useful indices.9 If the studies (abdominal ultrasound, CT, and MRI) are morphologic changes (nodularity of liver surface, atrophy caudate lobe/right lobe ratio is above 0.65, it can indicate of the right lobe, hypertrophy of the left and caudate lobe, LC, and its
