The Korean Journal of Hepatology 2012;18:1-21
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, treatment, hepatic, ascites, bleeding, encephalopathy, variceal, therapy, cirrhosis, varices, recommended, hepatology, syndrome, hepatic encephalopathy


changes (nodularity of liver surface, atrophy caudate lobe/right lobe ratio is above 0.65, it can indicate of the right lobe, hypertrophy of the left and caudate lobe, LC, and its sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy reach 84%, expansion of the periportal space, and intrahepatic 100%, and 94%, respectively.10 nodule), ascites, and presence of portal hypertension (collateral vessel or splenomegaly). (B1) 4 The Korean Journal of Hepatology Vol. 18. No. 1, March 2012 The extent of liver fibrosis was reduced by 49% when 3. When should liver biopsy be performed in patients with chronic liver disease for the diagnosis of LC? treated with interferon α or peginterferon α.20 In patients - Liver biopsy should be selectively performed to detect the with HBeAg-positive CHB, hepatic fibrosis improved in cause of LC and assess the disease activity and fibrosis. 39% of patients after initial treatment with entecavir, whereas Liver biopsy is necessary on patients in whom the diagnosis remains unclear from the conventional test (B1) in HBeAg-negative CHB, improvement was observed in 36% of patients.23,27 With 1-year tenofovir treatment, inflam- 2. Anti-fibrotic therapy for LC mation improved without aggravation in 74% of HBeAg- LC is a pathological condition of liver fibrosis generated positive CHB patients and in 71% of HBeAg-negative CHB by continuous scar formation and recovery due to chronic patients.21,24,28 liver injury, eventually leading to the development of regenerative nodules around the fibrotic scar.13 If liver 2-2. Chronic hepatitis C injury is chronically repeated, damaged liver cells cannot Interferon treatment for CHC reduces the hepatic necrotic regenerate and instead migrate to the extracellular matrix inflammatory reaction; particularly, in patients with a such as collagen.14 The mechanism of liver fibrosis is sustained virological response, the reductions in serum variable, depending on causes such as alcohol, hepatitis hepatitis C virus RNA and intrahepatic necrotic inflammatory virus, or bile acids. Hepatic stellate cells, which are located reactions are correlated.29 In particular, antiviral treatment in the space of Disse, play a major role in liver fibrosis.14 should be actively considered for patients presenting with Histological changes associated with LC have long been genotype 2 or 3 and a Child-Pugh score <7. In patients believed to be irreversible. However, in patients receiving with a Child-Pugh score of 7-9, antiviral treatment can be antiviral therapy for CHB, liver fibrosis has been observed considered with careful attention to hepatic dysfunction.30-34 to be significantly improved.15 Similarly, the primary approach to treating
