The Korean Journal of Hepatology 2012;18:1-21
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, treatment, hepatic, ascites, bleeding, encephalopathy, variceal, therapy, cirrhosis, varices, recommended, hepatology, syndrome, hepatic encephalopathy


antiviral treatment can be antiviral therapy for CHB, liver fibrosis has been observed considered with careful attention to hepatic dysfunction.30-34 to be significantly improved.15 Similarly, the primary approach to treating LC is treatment of the underlying disease. The 2-3. Alcohol second approach in the treatment of LC is anti-fibrotic Abstinence is the most important treatment of alcoholic therapy that targets the liver fibrosis-generating mechanism liver disease.35 Abstinence not only improves fibrosis in irrespective of the cause of LC. In order to develop effective hepatic tissue but also reduces portal pressure and inhibits treatments for liver fibrosis, the molecular pathogenesis progression to LC. Ultimately, the survival rate of patients in and treatment of liver fibrosis have been exhaustively all stages of alcoholic liver disease increases following investigated over the last 2 decades. Subsequently, a number abstinence, with improvements being observed in up to 66% of substances or drugs with anti-fibrotic effects in animal of patients.35 Sustained drinking increases the risk of experiments have been found; however, most of these have variceal bleeding by portal hypertension and is closely not been verified for use in human beings. related with mortality. In severe alcoholic hepatitis, steroid and pentoxifylline 2-1. Chronic hepatitis B therapy have been recommended by several studies. However, Antiviral therapy that regulates inflammation via the the effect of these drugs on fibrosis has not been confirmed; inhibition of viral proliferation is recommended for improving therefore, these medications are not recommended in the liver fibrosis.15-21 There were no significant differences in treatment of fibrosis as anti-fibrotic therapy. the degree of improvement in fibrosis according to antiviral drugs.22-24 As liver fibrosis progresses, the rate of improvement 2-4. Nonalcoholic fatty liver by antiviral treatment increases.18,25 Therefore, in patients Treatment of nonalcoholic fatty liver comprises improving with advanced liver fibrosis, antiviral treatment is needed in insulin resistance, removing risk factors of metabolic the case with viral proliferation. In patients with LC due to syndrome, lifestyle modifications, drug therapy, and operative CHB, antiviral therapy with a sufficient treatment period treatment.36-52 Weight loss appears to help in liver steatosis can be recommended to reduce liver fibrosis from virus as well as relieves hepatic inflammation and fibrosis.36-39 proliferation. However, in the case of drug-resistant viral Therefore, the first choice of therapy in nonalcoholic fatty infection, the benefits of antiviral treatment are reduced.19,22,26 liver disease is weight loss through diet therapy and lifestyle modifications, with more than 7% weight
