The Korean Journal of Hepatology 2012;18:1-21
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, treatment, hepatic, ascites, bleeding, encephalopathy, variceal, therapy, cirrhosis, varices, recommended, hepatology, syndrome, hepatic encephalopathy


choice of therapy in nonalcoholic fatty infection, the benefits of antiviral treatment are reduced.19,22,26 liver disease is weight loss through diet therapy and lifestyle modifications, with more than 7% weight loss being the than 12 mmHg or when it is decreased to lower than 20% of recommended target.39 For nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, the baseline measurement.59 clinical trials using multiple drugs have currently being attempted. However, data regarding its effectiveness, safety, 3-1. Diagnosis and dosing period remain limited.40 It is recommended that all patients undergo endoscopy when they are first diagnosed with LC in order to evaluate 2-5. Primary biliary cirrhosis the presence of esophageal varix and the risk of bleeding.60 Ursodeoxycholic acid has been proven to improve Esophageal varices are classified based on the diameter of primary biliary cirrhosis and is the only drug recognized for varices and their morphology as follows: varices with the its treatment.53-56 Ursodeoxycholic acid reduces serum findings of larger than 5 mm61 or F2-F3 (beaded varices - bilirubin levels, which is an important prognostic factor, and crystalled varices) are defined as large and varices with the delays the progression and deterioration of fibrosis55,56 findings of smaller than 5 mm or F1 (straight varices) are 13-15 mg/kg/day is the most effective dose in terms of defined as small.62 Treatment to prevent esophageal variceal biological effect and cost-effectiveness. Improvements of bleeding should be performed when large varices are liver function tests appear within 6-9 months of therapy in present. For patients with compensated LC should be more than 90% of patients.57 Ursodeoxycholic acid treatment considered for endoscopy every 2 to 3 years, and patients is not known to improve fatigue, itching, bone diseases, or with decompensated LC every 1 to 2 years in order to autoimmune reactions associated with primary biliary evaluate the occurrence and progression of varix.63 Patients cirrhosis.57 with compensated LC with small varices not using nonselective beta-blocker, should be considered for Recommendations endoscopy every 2 years to evaluate the progression of 1. What is anti-fibrotic therapy according to the causes of LC? varix. - In patients with LC, it is recommended that the cause of disease should be treated to improve liver fibrosis. (A1) Recommendations - In patients with LC due to CHB, antiviral therapy with a 1. What is the role of endoscopy in patients with LC? sufficient treatment period can be recommended to reduce - It is recommended that all patients
