The Korean Journal of Hepatology 2012;18:1-21
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, treatment, hepatic, ascites, bleeding, encephalopathy, variceal, therapy, cirrhosis, varices, recommended, hepatology, syndrome, hepatic encephalopathy


antiviral therapy with a 1. What is the role of endoscopy in patients with LC? sufficient treatment period can be recommended to reduce - It is recommended that all patients undergo endoscopy liver fibrosis from virus proliferation. (B1) when they are first diagnosed with LC in order to - In patients with LC due to CHC, antiviral therapy with a evaluate the presence of esophageal varix and the risk of combination of peginterferon and ribavirin can be bleeding. (A1) recommended, if the normal range of liver function with - Esophageal varices are classified into small (F1) and large viral proliferation. In addition, monitoring for side effects (F2 and F3). Also, red color sign should be checked during is needed. (B1) endoscopy. (B1) - In patients with alcoholic LC, strict abstinence is - For patients with compensated LC should be considered recommended to prevent worsening of disease. (A1) for endoscopy every 2 to 3 years, and patients with - In patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, losing decompensated LC every 1 to 2 years in order to evaluate weight, diet therapy, and exercise can be recommended. the occurrence and progression of varices. (B1) (B1) - Patients with compensated LC with small varices not - In patients with primary biliary cirrhosis, ursodeoxycholic using nonselective beta-blocker, should be considered for acid is recommended with a dose of 13-15 mg/kg/day. endoscopy every 2 years to evaluate the progression of (A1) varices. (B1) - The frequency of endoscopy can be adjusted according to 3. Variceal bleeding the cause and progression of LC. Esophageal variceal bleeding is found in approximately 40% of patients with Child-Pugh A class LC, and in 3-2. Acute esophageal variceal bleeding approximately 80% of patients with Child-Pugh C class 3-2-1. Definition and diagnosis LC.58 The risk of variceal bleeding depends on the size of Acute variceal bleeding is defined as hematemesis within varices, red color sign, and the Child-Pugh classification. last 24 hours of presentation, and/or ongoing melena, with Variceal bleeding due to portal hypertension can be prevented the last melenic stool within last 24 hours before the hospital when the value of hepatic venous pressure gradient is lower visit in a known or suspected case of portal hypertension. 6 The Korean Journal of Hepatology Vol. 18. No. 1, March 2012 Endoscopy is the most definite diagnostic method for Balloon tamponade can be used as a rescue therapy if identifying acute esophageal
