The Korean Journal of Hepatology 2012;18:1-21
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, treatment, hepatic, ascites, bleeding, encephalopathy, variceal, therapy, cirrhosis, varices, recommended, hepatology, syndrome, hepatic encephalopathy


Journal of Hepatology Vol. 18. No. 1, March 2012 Endoscopy is the most definite diagnostic method for Balloon tamponade can be used as a rescue therapy if identifying acute esophageal variceal bleeding. Variceal active variceal bleeding cannot be controlled. Transjugular bleeding can be diagnosed as follows: direct visualization of intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) is recommended blood issuing from esophageal varices, presence of signs of if medication and endoscopic therapy have failed or if recent bleeds on varices such as white nipple sign or endoscopic therapy is impossible. overlying clot, or presence of blood in the stomach in the absence of another source of bleeding.64 3-3. Prevention 3-3-1. Prevention of first bleeding in patients without 3-2-2. Treatment esophageal varices The first line of therapy includes vasoconstrictors such as Nonselective beta-blockers are not recommended in terlipressin and somatostatin.65 Antibiotics are recommended patients without esophageal varices.69,70 for patients admitted in the hospital.66 Antibiotic therapy is recommended for 5-7 days to prevent sepsis and rebleeding 3-3-2. Prevention of first bleeding in patients with small following endoscopy (Table 2).67 esophageal varices Medication and endoscopic therapy are recommended in Nonselective beta-blockers do not lower the incidence patients with acute variceal bleeding for the first time.68 If of bleeding in patients with small esophageal varices.71 active bleeding is present, banding of the culprit vessel or However, patients with a high risk of bleeding (Child-Pugh that just below the ooze should be performed endoscopically. class B/C or endoscopic red color sign), are considered for After ligation of the active bleeding site, even in the absence nonselective beta-blocker therapy.70 The dose of nonselec- of active bleeding, banding should be performed starting tive beta-blockers is adjusted for a reduction in the resting from just above the gastro-esophageal junction (5-10 mm) heart rate by 25%, to 55 beats/minute, or until the occurrence in a sequential manner up to 5 cm. Endoscopic injection of side effects. In Koreans, the mean adjusted dose of sclerotherapy is recommended if endoscopic variceal ligation propranolol is 160 mg/day.72,73 is technically impossible or has failed. 3-3-3. Prevention of first bleeding in patients with large Recommendations esophageal varices 2. How should acute variceal bleeding be treated? In large esophageal varices, endoscopic variceal ligation - It is recommended that patients with acute variceal (EVL) and nonselective beta-blockers are effective in bleeding initially be administered vasoconstrictor and preventing the first bleeding occurrence.74,75 In patients with antibiotic treatment. (A1) large varices
