The Korean Journal of Hepatology 2012;18:1-21
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, treatment, hepatic, ascites, bleeding, encephalopathy, variceal, therapy, cirrhosis, varices, recommended, hepatology, syndrome, hepatic encephalopathy


patients with acute variceal (EVL) and nonselective beta-blockers are effective in bleeding initially be administered vasoconstrictor and preventing the first bleeding occurrence.74,75 In patients with antibiotic treatment. (A1) large varices (F2 or F3), which have never been observed to - Endoscopic treatment is recommended for patients with acute variceal bleeding. (A1) bleed, nonselective beta-blockers or EVL is recommended. - TIPS can be recommended if drugs and endoscopic therapy Repeated EVL is recommended until the disappearance have failed or endoscopic treatment is impossible. (B1) of esophageal varices.76 Low doses of carvedilol have been shown to lower the frequency of variceal bleeding Table 2. Drugs for acute esophageal variceal bleeding Type Effect Dose, usage, duration Terlipressin Side effect (cardiac ischemia) Inject 2 mg at first and inject 1-2 mg every 4-6 hours Improve survival rate until control bleeding or use for 3 days Effect on hepatorenal syndrome Somatostatin Side effects Somatostatin: IV 250 μg at first and 250 μg/hour for (intestinal vessel constriction, vomiting, or hyperglycemia) 2-3 days Do not improve survival rate Antibiotics Reduce bacterial infection Ceftriaxone: IV 1g/day for 5-7 days Improve survival rate Norfloxacin: PO 400 mg twice a day for 5-7 days with lesser side effects as compared with EVL. However, transplantation.84,85 additional research is needed before they can be routinely If the hepatic venous pressure gradient is reduced to less used.66,77 Combination therapy with EVL and nonselective than 12 mmHg or to more than 20% reduction in baseline beta-blockers for the prevention of first bleeding has shown levels by medical therapy, the incidence rate of rebleeding is no differences as compared with monotherapy.78 low (10%).86 In such cases, further endoscopic therapy may not be required. Recommendations 3. How can a first variceal bleeding be prevented in patients Recommendations with LC? 5. How to prevent recurrence of variceal bleeding? - In patients without varices, a nonselective beta-blockers - Patients who experience acute variceal bleeding need are not recommended for the purpose of preventing the treatment to prevent rebleeding. (A1) formation of varix and first bleeding of esophageal varix. - EVL alone or in combination with nonselective (B1) beta-blockers should be considered for the prevention of - Nonselective beta-blockers should be considered for rebleeding. (B1) patients with small varices which have never bled but - TIPS should be considered as a rescue therapy in Child- have a high risk of bleeding (Child-Pugh class B/C or red Pugh A/B patients
