The Korean Journal of Hepatology 2012;18:1-21
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, treatment, hepatic, ascites, bleeding, encephalopathy, variceal, therapy, cirrhosis, varices, recommended, hepatology, syndrome, hepatic encephalopathy


which have never bled but - TIPS should be considered as a rescue therapy in Child- have a high risk of bleeding (Child-Pugh class B/C or red Pugh A/B patients in whom other therapies have failed. color sign on endoscopy). (B1) (B1) - In patients with large varices (F2 or F3) in which bleeding - Liver transplantation should be considered for patients has never been observed, nonselective beta-blockers or who meet indications for liver transplantation. (B1) EVL are recommended. (A1) 4. How should nonselective beta-blockers be administered to 3-5. Gastric varices patients with LC? - Nonselective beta-blockers are adjusted at the dose of 3-5-1. Definition and diagnosis reduction in resting heart rate by 25% or 55 beats/minute, Gastric varices are enlarged submucosal veins of the or until the side effects occur. (B1) stomach that cause critical upper gastrointestinal bleeding. Gastric varices occur in approximately 20% of patients with 3-4. Prevention of variceal rebleeding portal hypertension, and the bleeding rate in 2 years is 3-4-1. Definition and diagnosis known to be 25%.87 Diagnosis is performed by endoscopy. Variceal rebleeding is defined as bleeding after 5 days of Endoscopic ultrasound can also be helpful.88 recovery from acute variceal bleeding.70 It is diagnosed similar to acute variceal bleeding. 3-5-2. Classification Gastroesophageal varices are classified depending on 3-4-2. Prevention whether esophageal varices are extended along lesser Nonselective beta-blockers alone or combination therapy curvature (gastroesophageal varices, GOV1) or gastric with isosorbide mononitrate are known to be effective in the fundus (GOV2). Gastric varices alone are classified as prevention of rebleeding.79 EVL shows better outcomes than varices located in the fundus (isolated gastric varices, IGV1) endoscopic injection sclerotherapy in endoscopic therapy and any other regions, i.e., stomach or duodenum (IGV2).87 for prevention of rebleeding.80 Rebleeding has been reported in 32% of patients after EVL. Combination therapy of EVL 3-5-3. Treatment and prevention and nonselective beta-blockers has been shown to have EVL is recommended for the treatment of GOV1. better outcomes than EVL alone.81,82 Endoscopic variceal obturation (EVO) can be an alter- TIPS shows a significantly low rebleeding rate as compared native.89-93 EVO involves the injection of tissue adhesives with endoscopic therapy. However, it shows a significantly such as N-butyl-2-cyanoacrylate (histoacrylⓇ) into the high incidence of hepatic encephalopathy. TIPS is not varices via endoscopy and can be recommended in treating recommended as a first-line therapy for esophageal variceal GOV2 and IGV.91,94-96 Endoscopic injection sclerotherapy is bleeding and
