The Korean Journal of Hepatology 2012;18:1-21
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, treatment, hepatic, ascites, bleeding, encephalopathy, variceal, therapy, cirrhosis, varices, recommended, hepatology, syndrome, hepatic encephalopathy


encephalopathy. TIPS is not varices via endoscopy and can be recommended in treating recommended as a first-line therapy for esophageal variceal GOV2 and IGV.91,94-96 Endoscopic injection sclerotherapy is bleeding and is recommended only as a rescue therapy when not recommended in treating GOV2 or IGV1 because of its combination therapy fails.83 Liver transplantation should be low rate of hemostasis, high rate of rebleeding, and other considered for patients who meet indications for liver complications.97-100 If endoscopic treatment is not possible, 8 The Korean Journal of Hepatology Vol. 18. No. 1, March 2012 TIPS can be performed.101,102 If a gastrorenal shunt is Recommendations present, balloon-occluded retrograde transvenous obliteration 7. How should portal hypertensive gastropathy be treated? can be performed.103-106 Surgery, such as distal splenorenal - If chronic bleeding due to portal hypertensive gastropathy shunting or vascular shunting, can be attempted if endoscopic presents, nonselective beta-blockers can be used. (B1) treatment is not possible in case of Child-Pugh A/B patients, 4. Ascites while liver transplantation is considered in the case of Child-Pugh B/C patients.107 Ascites is the most common complication in LC, Empirical use of nonselective beta-blockers, balloon- occurring in 60% of the patients with compensated LC occluded retrograde transvenous obliteration, and EVO can within 10 years.113 Ascites appears in 2/3 of the patients who prevent first gastric variceal bleeding, while EVO, TIPS, required admission due to LC,114 and 60% of the patients and balloon-occluded retrograde transvenous obliteration requiring paracentesis is because of LC.115 are considered to prevent gastric variceal rebleeding.70,108 4-1. Diagnosis Recommendations Abdominal ultrasound can diagnose ascites with only 100 6. How should gastric variceal bleeding be treated? mL.116 Ascites is classified by the amount of fluid as follows: - In gastric variceal bleeding, EVL or EVO are considered Grade 1 is diagnosed through imaging study, Grade 2 for GOV1 accompanying esophageal varices extended along the lesser curvature. (B1) through inspection and physical examination, Grade 3 based - EVO is preferable in patients with GOV2 or IGV1. If on marked abdominal expansion. Paracentesis is the most endoscopic treatment is not possible, TIPS can be used. If useful and simple diagnostic tool in Grade 2 or 3 ascites. gastric varix is accompanied with gastrorenal shunt, Furthermore, paracentesis should be performed in cirrhotic balloon-occluded retrograde transvenous obliteration can be considered. (B1) patients with fever, abdominal pain, bleeding, encephalopathy, - Surgery such as distal splenorenal shunt or vascular shunt hypotension, or kidney dysfunction
