The Korean Journal of Hepatology 2012;18:1-21
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, treatment, hepatic, ascites, bleeding, encephalopathy, variceal, therapy, cirrhosis, varices, recommended, hepatology, syndrome, hepatic encephalopathy


cirrhotic balloon-occluded retrograde transvenous obliteration can be considered. (B1) patients with fever, abdominal pain, bleeding, encephalopathy, - Surgery such as distal splenorenal shunt or vascular shunt hypotension, or kidney dysfunction to assess for spontaneous should be considered for patients (Child-Pugh A/B) and bacterial peritonitis (SBP), since 10-27% of the patients with liver transplantation for patients (Child-Pugh B/C) who are not eligible for endoscopic treatment. ascites have SBP.117 The main purpose of paracentesis is to discriminate the cause of ascites. Therefore, screening tests 3-6. Portal hypertensive gastropathy should include total cell count and differential, albumin, and total protein. Blood cell count is the most useful test for 3-6-1. Diagnosis diagnosing SBP. For differential diagnosis of ascites, a Portal hypertensive gastropathy is diagnosed when gastric serum-ascites albumin gradient can be calculated. If the mucosal changes of snake-skin appearance (or mosaic serum-ascites albumin gradient is is greater than of equal to pattern) are found on endoscopy in patients with portal hypertension.109 When gastric mucosal changes alone are 1.1 g/dL, ascites is ascribed to portal hypertension with an accuracy of 97%. found, this is diagnosed as a mild form. When red or dark brown viscous changes with changes in gastric mucosa are found, it is considered severe.72 Severe portal hypertensive Recommendations gastropathy causes more chronic bleeding than does the mild 1. How should ascites of LC be diagnosed? form.110 - Paracentesis should be performed when Grade 2 or 3 infection, or when there are complications of LC such as 3-6-2. Treatment encephalopathy or kidney dysfunction. (A1) In chronic bleeding due to portal hypertensive gastropathy, - When the initial paracentesis is performed, a total cell the goal of treatment is lowering the portal pressure with count and differential, albumin, and total protein tests should be performed. A culture of ascitic fluid in blood nonselective beta-blockers. In addition, iron supplementation culture bottles at the bedside is recommended. (A1) is recommended.111 Despite these treatments, if repeated - If serum-ascites albumin gradient is greater than or equal transfusions are needed for the treatment of chronic anemia, to 1.1 g/dL, it indicates ascites by portal hypertension. (B1) TIPS can be considered.112 4-2. Treatment should be no greater than 1 kg/day. For patients without Although controversial,118 a low salt diet is considered edema, 0.5 kg/day of weight loss is ideal.120,125 If there is no effective for controlling ascites and shortening hospitalization. weight loss even with 5 g/day of salt intake,
