The Korean Journal of Hepatology 2012;18:1-21
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, treatment, hepatic, ascites, bleeding, encephalopathy, variceal, therapy, cirrhosis, varices, recommended, hepatology, syndrome, hepatic encephalopathy


is considered edema, 0.5 kg/day of weight loss is ideal.120,125 If there is no effective for controlling ascites and shortening hospitalization. weight loss even with 5 g/day of salt intake, the diet and Less than 5 g/day of salt (sodium for 2 g, 88 mEq) is diuretic dose should be evaluated by examining the amount recommended. When plasma sodium is lower than 120-125 of urinary sodium excretion per day.120,126 Patients with low mEq/L, water intake should be restricted to 1-1.5 L/day.119 salt intake should not excrete more than 78 mEq of urinal sodium in 24 hours. In such patients, if urinary sodium 4-2-1. Medications excretion is more than 78 mEq, low salt intake is judged not If severe ascites is present, diuretic therapy should be used to be followed. When the excretion is less than 78 mEq, the for negative sodium balance.120,121 Secondary hyperaldo- diuretic is considered to be inadequate and the dose needs steronism in patients with LC induces reabsorption of to be increased. Spot urine Na/K ratio of more than 1 repre- sodium and water in the distal renal tubule and collecting sents 24 hours urine sodium excretion more than 78 mEq.127 tubule, consequently causing hypokalemia. Aldosterone It is important to check the weight loss, vital sign, changes antagonists inhibit this mechanism, and hence is mainly in consciousness level, and the level of plasma sodium, used for controlling ascites in patients with LC. Spirono- potassium, and creatinine during diuretic administration. lactone has a long half-life but has a slow onset of action, When plasma sodium is more than 126 mEq/L, diuretics can and therefore requires 3-4 days to achieve a stable be used without the restriction of water intake. However, a maximum dose of 400 mg/day. Side effects include should consider cessation or reduction in the dose of the hyperkalemia, gynecomastia, mastalgia, hyposexuality, and diuretic and restriction of water intake. If plasma sodium is erectile dysfunction.122 less than 120 mEq/L, the diuretic and water intake should be Loop diuretics operate by blocking Na-K-2Cl receptors in stopped and a plasma expander such as albumin should be the thick ascending limb of Henle’s loop. They are mostly administered. If plasma sodium is less than 125 mEq/L with used along with aldosterone antagonists in patients with LC. kidney dysfunction, the diuretic should be stopped and a Hypokalemia may occur as a side effect, but via such plasma expander should be administered.128
