The Korean Journal of Hepatology 2012;18:1-21
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, treatment, hepatic, ascites, bleeding, encephalopathy, variceal, therapy, cirrhosis, varices, recommended, hepatology, syndrome, hepatic encephalopathy


aldosterone antagonists in patients with LC. kidney dysfunction, the diuretic should be stopped and a Hypokalemia may occur as a side effect, but via such plasma expander should be administered.128 If plasma mechanism, hyperkalemia caused by the aldosterone anta- potassium is less than 3.5 mEq/L, the dose of loop diuretic gonist can be corrected. The starting dose is 20-40 mg/day, should be reduced or stopped. If plasma potassium is more with the maximum dose being 160 mg/day. Monotherapy than 5.5 mEq/L, the dose of aldosterone antagonist should with loop diuretics is less effective than aldosterone anta- be reduced. And if plasma potassium is more than 6.0 gonist monotherapy. Spironolactone monotherapy can be mEq/L, the aldosterone antagonist should be ceased.120 used initially on patients with ascites.123 Combination therapy of an aldosterone antagonist and a loop diuretic is 4-2-2. Therapeutic paracentesis (reference to intractable recommended at first in a ratio of 100:40, which stabilizes ascites section) plasma potassium levels. Combination therapy shows a Therapeutic paracentesis is an effective treatment for faster effect in controlling ascites and lowers the possibility tension-type ascites, because it relieves the symptoms more of hyperkalemia as compared to aldosterone monotherapy.124 quickly than diuretics and shortens hospitalization When peripheral edema is present, the rate of weight loss (Table 3).129 Table 3. Treatment of ascites depending on the grade Grade 1, mild Grade 2, moderate Grade 3, severe Low-salt diet ● ○ ○ Diuretic ● ○ Large volume paracentesis ● Grade 1, a small amount of ascites detected in the ultrasound test; Grade 2, ascites of the amount which distends abdomen symmetrically; Grade 3, ascites of the large volume which distends abdomen; ●, major treatment; ○, recommended. 10 The Korean Journal of Hepatology Vol. 18. No. 1, March 2012 Large-volume paracentesis is not considered for every Recommendations patient as a first-line treatment. It can be selectively 2. How should ascites of LC be treated? - Patients with cirrhotic ascites should be advised to take in performed in occasions in which the patient has difficulties less than 5 g of salt a day. (B1) eating or breathing because of abdominal distension. After - When the serum sodium is normal, restriction of water relieving the symptoms by paracentesis, the maintenance intake is not necessary. (B1) treatment should be administered. In the case of large- - Bed rest is not recommended for the treatment of ascites. (B1) volume paracentesis over 5 L, an
