The Korean Journal of Hepatology 2012;18:1-21
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, treatment, hepatic, ascites, bleeding, encephalopathy, variceal, therapy, cirrhosis, varices, recommended, hepatology, syndrome, hepatic encephalopathy


Hypertonic sodium injection can worsen ascites and maximum dose of diuretics, and (2) recurs rapidly after edema.137 Plasma expanders can be useful in the treatment of paracentesis. There are 2 types of refractory ascites-diuretic hyponatremia.138 Vaptan,139 a selective vasopressin 2 receptor resistant and diuretic intractable (Table 4). antagonist of arginine vasopressin, leads to the excretion of Table 4. Definition and diagnosis of refractory ascites206 Diuretic resistant ascites Being not responsive to sodium limit and diuretic, ascites is not controlled, and recurs early Diuretic intractable ascites Since sufficient amount of diuretic cannot be given for its complication, ascites is not controlled, and recurs early Required conditions Treatment period For over a week, give sufficient amount of diuretics (spironolactone 400 mg/day and furosemide 160 mg/day) and restriction of sodium intake to 5 g/day Treatment response Body weight loss is less than 800 g during 4 days, and the amount of urine sodium excretion is less than the amount taken Early recurrence of ascite Within 4 weeks after paracentesis, grade 2 or 3 ascites recurs Complications Hepatic encephalopathy Renal dysfunction: after giving diuretics, serum creatinine goes up over 100%, and exceeds 2.0 mg/dL Hyponatremia: serum sodium reduces by over 10 mEq/L, and goes down below 125 mEq/L Hypokalemia or hyperkalemia: serum potassium goes down below 3 mEq/L, or goes up beyond 6 mEq/L solute-free water. This agent can be used in the treatment of 4-4-2. Treatment hyponatremia caused by inappropriate antidiuretic hormone Dilatation of splanchnic artery and decrease in effective secretion, heart failure, or liver cirrhosis. In the United arterial blood volume arethe primary mechanisms of States and Europe, tolvaptan and conivaptan are approved hepatorenal syndrome. The effect of albumin monotherapy for the treatment of severe hyponatremia (<125 mEq/L). is not sufficient in this situation.144,145 Vasoconstrictors have been used in the treatment of the hepatorenal syndrome, and Recommendations combination therapy with vasoconstrictors and albumin is 3. How should intractable ascites be treated? effective in hepatorenal syndrome. The combination therapy - Repetitive large volume paracentesis is recommended in of terlipressin and albumin improves renal function in patients with refractory ascites. (A1) - In the case of large volume paracentesis, 8-10 g/L (albumin/ 60-75% of the patients.144,146-152 Maintenance therapy is ascites) is recommended for the prevention of postparacentesis possible up to 15 days or until the serum creatinine circulation dysfunction. (A1) levels decrease (<1.5 mg/dL). Further, long-term usage - TIPS can be used for the
