The Korean Journal of Hepatology 2012;18:1-21
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, treatment, hepatic, ascites, bleeding, encephalopathy, variceal, therapy, cirrhosis, varices, recommended, hepatology, syndrome, hepatic encephalopathy


syndrome, combination therapy of than 1.5 g/dL or bilirubin in plasma is more than 2.5 mg/dL, terlipressin and albumin can improve renal function. (A1) administration of norfloxacin at a dose of 400 mg daily for - In type 1 hepatorenal syndrome, combination therapy of midodrine, octreotide, and albumin can be considered. longer than 6 months orally is effective in prolonging the (B2) survival. - The best treatment for type 1 hepatorenal syndrome is liver transplantation. (A1) Recommendations - In high risk patients who have ascites accompanied by 5. How should SBP be diagnosed and treated? SBP, the use of albumin can decrease the incidence of - If SBP is suspected and the result of paracentesis show a hepatorenal syndrome. (A1) PMN of more than 250/mm3, empirical antibiotic therapy should be started immediately without results of ascitic 4-5. Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis fluid culture. (A1) - Third-generation cephalosporine is recommended as an 4-5-1. Definition and diagnosis initial antibiotic. (A1) SBP is bacterial infection of ascites, without an evident - The patient with symptoms or signs of infection should intra-abdominal, surgically treatable source of infection. It receive empirical antibiotics while awaiting of ascitic fluid occurs in 10-30% of the patients with cirrhotic ascites and culture even if the number of PMN is less than 250/mm3. (A1) recurs in 70% of the patients within 1 year even if - If the secondary bactrieal peritonitisis suspected, an treated.126,178 imaging study such as a CT should be performed (A1), SBP can be diagnosed in patients with findings of ascitic and additional examinations such as those for total polymorphonuclear leukocyte (PMN) ≥250/mm3and bacteria protein, LDH, glucose, or gram staining can be performed. (B1) in the ascitic culture without an evident intra-abdominal - If the patient has a history of SBP, gastrointestinal bleeding, infection. If ascites fluid contains red blood cells, PMN is or protein in ascites less than 1.5 g/dL, although there is no calculated by subtracting 1/mm3 per red blood cell 750 gastrointestinal bleeding, prophylactic antibiotics should /mm3. Culture-negative neutrocytic ascites is a condition be considered because the chance of SBP is high. (B1) where ascitic PMN ≥250/mm3 but no cultured bacteria are 5. Hepatic encephalopathy observed. These patients show a clinical course mostly similar to patients with SBP. Empiric antibiotics treatment is 5-1. Definition recommended. Monomicrobial non-neutrocytic bacterascites Hepatic encephalopathy is a neuropsychiatric syndrome is a condition with ascitic PMN <250/mm3, but cultured that follows
