The Korean Journal of Hepatology 2012;18:1-21
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, treatment, hepatic, ascites, bleeding, encephalopathy, variceal, therapy, cirrhosis, varices, recommended, hepatology, syndrome, hepatic encephalopathy


patients with SBP. Empiric antibiotics treatment is 5-1. Definition recommended. Monomicrobial non-neutrocytic bacterascites Hepatic encephalopathy is a neuropsychiatric syndrome is a condition with ascitic PMN <250/mm3, but cultured that follows liver dysfunction. Patients with hepatic single-strain bacteria being observed. encephalopathy can show various neurological illnesses Table 6. Classification of hepatic encephalopathy180 HE type Nomenclature Subcategory Subdivisions A Encephalopathy associated with acute liver failure B Encephalopathy associated with portal-systemic bypass and no intrinsic hepatocellular disease C Encepahlopathy associated with cirrhosis and portal hypertension/or Episodic HE Precipitated systemic shunts Spontaneous Recurrent Persistent HE Mild Severe Treatment-dependent Minimal HE HE, hepatic encephalopathy. Table 7. West-Haven criteria for hepatic encephalopathy183 Grade Consciousness Intellect and behavior Neurologic findings 0 Normal Normal Normal examination; if impaired psychomotor testing then MHE 1 Mild lack of awareness Shortened attention span; impaired Mild asterixis or tremor addition or subtraction 2 Lethargic Disoriented; inappropriate behavior Obvious asterixis; slurred speech 3 Somnolent but arousable Gross disorientation; bizarre behavior Muscular rigidity and clonus; hyperreflexia 4 Coma Coma Decerebrate posturing MHE, minimal hepatic encephalopathy. such as cognition and orientation disorders. Hepatic normal venous ammonia levels.184 encephalopathy is classified into 3 groups according to the Brain MRI is considered better than brain CT in the causative liver disease (Table 6).180,181 diagnosis of brain edema accompanying hepatic failure, but this is not true for hepatic encephalopathy. Brain CT is 5-2. Diagnosis useful when differentiating between organic causes of Hepatic encephalopathy is generally accompanied by neuropsychiatric disorders such as intracranial hemorrhage.185 advanced liver disease; therefore, muscle weakness, jaundice, ascites, palmar erythema, edema, spider telangiectasias, and 5-3. Treatment fetor hepaticus can be noted on physical examination. The goal of treatment is to prevent secondary damage Clinicians should check for gastrointestinal hemorrhage, caused by decreased consciousness, normalize the patient’s uremia, use of anti-psychotics or diuretics, protein hyper- state of consciousness, prevent recurrence, and to improve ingestion, infection, constipation, dehydration, electrolyte the prognosis and quality of life by eliminating the social imbalance, etc.182 Common symptoms include concentration and economic restrictions caused by hepatic encephalopathy. disorders, sleep disorders, and movement disorders, including The precipitating factor can be identified in more than 80% lethargy or coma. The severity of hepatic encephalopathy of patients with hepatic encephalopathy.182 The currently can be evaluated using the West Haven criteria (Table 7).183 known precipitating factors of hepatic encephalopathy Venous levels of ammonia are not helpful because they and the corresponding tests and treatments are shown
