The Korean Journal of Hepatology 2012;18:1-21
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, treatment, hepatic, ascites, bleeding, encephalopathy, variceal, therapy, cirrhosis, varices, recommended, hepatology, syndrome, hepatic encephalopathy


using the West Haven criteria (Table 7).183 known precipitating factors of hepatic encephalopathy Venous levels of ammonia are not helpful because they and the corresponding tests and treatments are shown in are not proportional to the severity of hepatic encephalopathy Table 8.186 and some patients with sever hepatic encephalopathy have 14 The Korean Journal of Hepatology Vol. 18. No. 1, March 2012 Table 8. Precipitating factors, tests, and treatment of hepatic encephalopathy186 Precipitating factor Tests Treatment Gastrointestinal bleeding Endoscopy, complete blood count, digital rectal Transfusion, bleeding treatment, vasoactive drugs examination, stool blood test Infection Complete blood count, chest x-ray, urine analysis, Broad-spectrum antibiotics culture, diagnostic paracentesis Constipation History taking, abdomen x-ray Enema or drug therapy Protein intake History taking Limiting protein intake Dehydration Skin elasticity, blood pressure, pulse rate, blood Stop diuretics or reduction, fluid therapy urea nitrogen, creatinine Renal dysfunction Blood urea nitrogen, creatinine Stop diuretics or reduction, albumin, fluid therapy Hyponatremia Serum sodium concentration Restriction water consumption, diuretics dose adjustment or stop Hypokalemia Serum potassium concentration Diuretics dose adjustment or stop Benzodiazepines History taking Stop drug, flumazenil Acute liver dysfunction Liver function test Conservative treatment 5-3-1. Medications and recently has been focused upon as a first-line treatment The primary treatment of hepatic encephalopathy is for hepatic encephalopathy with a maximum dose of 1,200 nonabsorbable disaccharides such as lactulose (β-galactosido- mg/day. fructose) or lactitiol (β-galctoside sorbitol). These Ornithine and aspartate are important substrates used to treatments lead to the recovery of 70-90% of patients with metabolize ammonia to urea and glutamine. L-ornithine- hepatic encephalopathy. Although nonabsorbable disaccha- L-aspartate (LOLA) can therefore be administered to rides have been reported to have no significant effect on patients with hepatic encephalopathy for reducing blood hepatic encephalopathy,187 randomized controlled studies ammonia levels, with subsequent improvements in hepatic have indicated a positive effect of lactulose in the treatment encephalopathy. LOLA is available in oral and injection and prevention of hepatic encephalopathy.188,189 Enema with forms, both of which are available in Korea currently. nonabsorbable disaccharides can be used until the cons- ciousness is recovered. After consciousness is restored, 5-3-2. Liver transplantation nonabsorbable disaccharides (15-45 mL, orally 2-4 times/day) Liver transplantation is indicated in patients with severe a day. treatments. Patient with acute liver failure who shows hepatic Antibiotics such as neomycin, metronidazole, and encephalopathy are also considered for liver transplantation rifaximin that are not absorbed by the intestine, affect because of the poor prognosis.194 urea-producing
