The Korean Journal of Hepatology 2012;18:1-21
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, treatment, hepatic, ascites, bleeding, encephalopathy, variceal, therapy, cirrhosis, varices, recommended, hepatology, syndrome, hepatic encephalopathy


shows hepatic Antibiotics such as neomycin, metronidazole, and encephalopathy are also considered for liver transplantation rifaximin that are not absorbed by the intestine, affect because of the poor prognosis.194 urea-producing bacteria and reduce the generation of ammonia, thereby improving hepatic encephalopathy. 5-3-3. Prevention of relapse Neomycin and metronidazole are not recommended as Because the recurrence rate of hepatic encephalopathy is atreatment of hepatic encephalopathy because of their side 50-70%,189,195,196 therapy for the prevention of recurrence effects such as intestinal malabsorption, nephrotoxicity, and should be considered. Lactulose189 or rifaximin196 have been ototoxicity for neomycin and peripheral neuropathy for used for the prevention of recurrence. metronidazole.190 Rifaximin maintains high levels of concentration in the intestine because it is not absorbed by 5-4. Minimal hepatic encephalopathy the intestine and remains in an active form until it is 5-4-1. Definition and diagnosis excreted. It has a broad antimicrobial activity on aerobic and Minimal hepatic encephalopathy is a mild form of hepatic anaerobic gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria. It has encephalopathy that is defined as a cognitive dysfunction symptoms.180 Overall, 22-74% of patients with non-fulminant orally in 2-3 divided doses for 1-3 weeks. hepatic encephalopathy have minimal hepatic encephalo- - A lactulose enema is recommended in severe hepatic pathy,197 and its frequency is proportional to patient age and encephalopathy (West Haven grade ≥III). (A1) - LOLA can be used in patients with hepatic severity of liver disease.197 It is impossible to diagnose encephalopathy, and LOLA of 20 g can be injected daily minimal hepatic encephalopathy on clinical examination for 1-2 weeks or LOLA of 6 g can be given orally 3 times alone. Only mild disturbances in cognitive and psychomotor per day for 1-2 weeks. (B2) - Flumazenil can be used in patients with hepatic functions can be observed. Patients with minimal hepatic encephalopathy caused by benzodiazepine for the encephalopathy exhibit disability in most functional improvement of consciousness. (B2) behavior, sleep, work, and leisure.188,198 injury with hepatic encephalopathy, liver transplantation is recommended. (A1) Mini-Mental State Examination can be useful in differen- - In patients with a history of hepatic encephalopathy, tiating West Haven criteria 0 and stage 1-2, and if the score is nonabsorbable disaccharide can be used until patients have 23 or lower, it suggests that the patient has overt hepatic loose stools 2-3 times a day (A1), or 600 mg of rifaximin can be used twice a day (B1). encephalopathy causing a cognitive disorder
