The Korean Journal of Hepatology 2012;18:1-21
KEYWORDS: patients, liver, treatment, hepatic, ascites, bleeding, encephalopathy, variceal, therapy, cirrhosis, varices, recommended, hepatology, syndrome, hepatic encephalopathy


that the patient has overt hepatic loose stools 2-3 times a day (A1), or 600 mg of rifaximin can be used twice a day (B1). encephalopathy causing a cognitive disorder and is not a primary target for psychometric tests.199 Since there are 3. How protein be supplied to patients with hepatic encephal- opathy? still no decisive diagnostic tests, psychometric hepatic - Protein intake should be restricted in patients with initial encephalopathy score battery is recommended as a standard hepatic encephalopathy, and gradually can be increased method consisting of number connection test-A, number according to the patient’s condition. (B1) - Oral branched-chain amino acids can be used as a protein connection test-B, line drawing test, serial dotting test, and source in case of worsening or recurrence of hepatic digit symbol test, and its benefits have been proven in encephalopathy due to as a consequence of high protein studies from Spain, Germany, India, and Korea.181,200-202 intake. (B2) 4. Is it necessary to examine and treat minimal hepatic 5-4-2. Treatment encephalopathy for patients with LC? - In patients with LC, if there are any symptoms of low Cognition and health-related quality of life improve cognitive function, tests and treatment for minimal hepatic significantly in the treatment group compared to placebo encephalopathy can be considered. (B1) group.188 It has been reported that microviral agents (e.g., probiotics, synbiotics, etc.) improve minimal encephalopathy Acknowledgements by changing intestinal normal flora and suppressing the production of ammonia.203 Even though reports are This research was supported by a grant from the Ministry minimal encephalopathy, there is no evidence regarding its the Korean Association for the Study of the Liver (KASL). effectiveness. The Korean version of this guideline is available on the KASL web site ( This version is revision Recommendations and update of the clinical practice guideline established by 1. What are the precipitating factors of hepatic the Korean Association for the Study of the Liver (KASL) in encephalopathy? 2005. - Precipitating factors of hepatic encephalopathy are gastrointestinal bleeding, infection, constipation, excessive intake of protein, dehydration, renal function disorder, Conflict of interest electrolyte imbalance, psychoactive medication, and acute hepatic injury. (A1) Authors attest that there are no commercial associations 2. How should hepatic encephalopathy be treated? that might be a conflict of interest in relation to the sub- - Nonabsorbent disaccharides (ex. lactulose, lactitol) (A1) mitted manuscript. and rifaximin (B1) are recommended for treating patients with hepatic encephalopathy. Nonabsorbable
