The Normal Menstrual Cycle and the Control of Ovulation
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cycle, phase, menstrual, cells, follicular, menstrual cycle, ovulation, luteal, corpus, corpus luteum, luteum, estradiol, progesterone, human


ABSTRACT Menstruation is the cyclic, orderly sloughing of the uterine lining, in response to the interactions of hormones produced by the hypothalamus, pituitary, and ovaries. The menstrual cycle may be divided into two phases: ( 1 ) follicular or proliferative phase, and ( 2 ) the luteal or secretory phase. The length of a menstrual cycle is the number of days between the first day of menstrual bleeding of one cycle to the onset of menses of the next cycle. The median duration of a menstrual cycle is 28 days with most cycle lengths between 25 to 30 days (1-3. Patients who experience menstrual cycles that occur at intervals less than 21 days are termed polymenorrheic, while patients who experience prolonged menstrual cycles greater than 35 days, are termed oligomenorrheic. The typical volume of blood lost during menstruation is approximately 30 mL ( 4 ). Any amount greater than 80 mL is considered abnormal ( 4 ). The menstrual cycle is typically most irregular around the extremes of reproductive life (menarche and menopause) due to anovulation and inadequate follicular development ( 5 - 7 ). The luteal phase of the cycle is relatively constant in all women, with a duration of 14 days. The variability of cycle length is usually derived from varying lengths of the follicular phase of the cycle, which can range from 10 to 16 days. For complete coverage of this and related topics, please visit www.endotext.org. THE FOLLICULAR PHASE ( Fig.1 ) Figure 1. Hormonal, Ovarian, endometrial, and basal body temperature changes and relations throughout the normal menstrual cycle. (From Carr BR, Wilson JD. Disorders of the ovary and female reproductive tract. In: Braunwald E, Isselbacher KJ, Petersdorf RG, et al, eds. Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine. 11th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1987: 1818-1837. The follicular phase begins from the first day of menses until ovulation. Lower temperatures on a basal body temperature chart, and more importantly, the development of ovarian follicles, characterize this phase. Folliculogenesis begins during the last few days of the preceding menstrual cycle until the release of the mature follicle at ovulation. Declining steroid production by the corpus luteum and the dramatic fall of inhibin A allows for follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) to rise during the last few days of the menstrual cycle ( Fig. 2 ) ( 8 ). Another influential factor on the FSH level in the late luteal phase
