The Normal Menstrual Cycle and the Control of Ovulation
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cycle, phase, menstrual, cells, follicular, menstrual cycle, ovulation, luteal, corpus, corpus luteum, luteum, estradiol, progesterone, human


such as steroids, pituitary hormones, plasma proteins, proteoglycans and non-steroidal ovarian factors, which regulate the microenvironment of the ovary and regulate steroidogenesis in granulosa cells. Growth factors such as insulin-like growth factor 1 and 2 (IGF1, IGF2) and epidermal growth factor (EGF) are recognized as playing important roles in oocyte development and maturation ( 23 - 25 ). The concentration of ovarian steroids is much higher in follicular fluid in comparison to plasma concentrations. There are 2 populations of antral follicles: ( 1 ) large follicles, which are greater than 8mm in diameter, and ( 2 ) small follicles, which are less than 8mm. In the large follicles, the concentrations of FSH, estrogen, and progesterone are high while prolactin concentration is low. In the small follicles, prolactin and androgen levels are higher compared to large antral follicles ( 26 ). OVULATION Ovulation occurs approximately 10-12 hours after the LH peak ( Fig. 5 ) ( 27 ). The LH surge is initiated by a dramatic rise of estradiol produced by the preovulatory follicle ( Fig. 6 ). To produce the critical concentration of estradiol needed to initiate the positive feedback, the dominant follicle is almost always >15mm in diameter on ultrasound ( 28 ). The beginning of the LH surge occurs roughly 34 to 36 hours prior to ovulation and is a relatively precise predictor for timing ovulation ( Fig. 5 ) ( 29 ). The LH surge stimulates luteinization of the granulosa cells and stimulates the synthesis of progesterone responsible for the midcycle FSH surge. Also, the LH surge stimulates resumption of meiosis and the completion of reduction division in the oocyte with the release of the first polar body. It has been demonstrated in cultured granulosa cells that spontaneous luteinization can occur in the absence of LH. It is hypothesized that the inhibitory effects of factors such as oocyte maturation inhibitor or luteinization inhibitor are overcome at ovulation ( 30 ). Figure 5. The onset of LH surge usually precedes ovulation by 36 hours. The peak, on the other hand preceded ovulation by 10-12 hours. Figure 6. Changes in gonadotropins and ovarian steroids at midcycle, just prior to ovulation. The initiation of LH surge is at time 0. Abbreviations: E2, estrogen; P, progesterone (From Hoff JD, Quigley ME, Yen SCC. Hormonal dynamics at midcycle: A re-evaluation. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 57:792, 1983. Prostaglandins and proteolytic enzymes, such as
