The Normal Menstrual Cycle and the Control of Ovulation
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cycle, phase, menstrual, cells, follicular, menstrual cycle, ovulation, luteal, corpus, corpus luteum, luteum, estradiol, progesterone, human


Fig. 9 ) ( 50 ). The frequency and amplitude of LH secretion during the follicular phase regulates subsequent luteal phase function and is consistent with the regulatory role of LH during the luteal phase ( 51 ). Reduced levels of FSH during the follicular phase can lead to a shortened luteal phase and the development of a smaller corpus lutea ( 52 ). Also, the life span of the corpus luteum can be reduced by continuous LH administration during the follicular or luteal phase, reduced LH concentration, decreased LH pulse frequency, or decreased LH pulse amplitude ( 53 - 55 ). The role of other luteotropic factors such as prolactin, oxytocin, inhibin and relaxin is still unclear ( 56 , 57 ). Figure 9. Episodic secretion of LH (top) and progesterone (bottom) during the luteal phase of a woman. Abbreviations: LH, luteinizing hormone: P, progesterone E2, estradiol; LH + 8, LH surge plus 8 days. (From Filicori M, Butler JP, Crowley WF Jr. Neuroendocrine regulation of the corpus luteum in the human. J Clin Invest. 73:1638 1984. The corpus luteum function begins to decline 9-11 days after ovulation. The exact mechanism of how the corpus luteum undergoes its demise is unknown. Estrogen is believed to play a role in the luteolysis of the corpus luteum ( 58 ). Estradiol injected into the ovary bearing the corpus luteum induces luteolysis while no effect is noted after estradiol injection of the contralateral ovary ( 56 ). However, the absence of estrogen receptors in human luteal cells does not support the role of endogenous estrogen in corpus luteum regression ( 59 ). Prostaglandin F2α appears to be luteolytic in nonhuman primates and in studies of women ( 60 , 61 ). Prostaglandin F2α exerts its effects via the synthesis of endothelin-1, which inhibits steroidogenesis and stimulates the release of a growth factor, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα), which induces cell apoptosis ( 62 ). Oxytocin and vasopressin exert their luteotropic effects via an autocrine/paracrine mechanism ( 63 ). Luteinizing hormone's ability to downregulate its own receptor may also play a role in termination of the luteal phase. Finally, Matrix metalloproteinases also appear to play a role in luteolysis ( 64 ). Not all hormones undergo marked fluctuations during the normal menstrual cycle. Androgens, glucocorticoids, and pituitary hormones, excluding LH and FSH, undergo only minimal fluctuation ( 65 - 68 ). Due to
