The Normal Menstrual Cycle and the Control of Ovulation
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cycle, phase, menstrual, cells, follicular, menstrual cycle, ovulation, luteal, corpus, corpus luteum, luteum, estradiol, progesterone, human


arthritis or systemic lupus erythematosus, are believed to be related to estrogen enhancement of humoral immunity ( 83 ). Other researchers also describe higher vulnerability for drug abuse during phases of the menstrual cycle when estradiol levels are high ( 84 ). SUMMARY The length of a menstrual cycle is the number of days between the first day of menstrual bleeding of one cycle to the onset of menses of the next cycle. The median duration of a menstrual cycle is 28 days with most cycle lengths between 25 to 30 days. The menstrual cycle may be divided into two phases: ( 1 ) follicular or proliferative phase, and ( 2 ) the luteal or secretory phase. The follicular phase begins from the first day of menses until ovulation. The development of ovarian follicles characterizes this phase. The LH surge is initiated by a dramatic rise of estradiol produced by the preovulatory follicle and results in subsequent ovulation. The LH surge stimulates luteinization of the granulosa cells and stimulates the synthesis of progesterone responsible for the midcycle FSH surge. Also, the LH surge stimulates resumption of meiosis and the completion of reduction division in the oocyte with the release of the first polar body. The luteal phase is 14 days long in most women. If the corpus luteum is not rescued by pregnancy, it will undergo atresia. The resultant progesterone withdrawal results in menses. The average duration of menstrual flow is between four and six days, but the normal range in women can be from as little as two days up to eight days. The average amount of menstrual blood is 30ml, and over 60 ml is considered abnormal. REFERENCES 1. Treloar A.E., et al. Variation of the human menstrual cycle through reproductive life. Int J Fertil. 1967; 12 (1 Pt 2):77–126. [ PubMed : 5419031 ] 2. Vollman R.F., The Menstrual Cycle. 1977, WB Saunders: Philadelphia. [ PubMed : 836520 ] 3. Presser, H.B., Temporal data relating to the human menstrual cycle, in Biorhythms and Human Reproduction, M. Ferin, et al., Editors. 1974, John Wiley and Sons: New York. p. 145-160. 4. Hallberg L., et al. Menstrual blood loss--a population study. Variation at different ages and attempts to define normality. Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand. 1966; 45 (3):320–351. [ PubMed : 5922481 ] 5. Apter D., et al. Follicular growth in relation to serum hormonal patterns in adolescent compared with
