Journal of Medical Virology
KEYWORDS: stis, global, burden, sdi, high, hiv, age, incidence, regions, health, supporting, years, sex, analysis, gbd


the log‐transformed rate. EAPC was derived as International Classification of Diseases diagnostic codes (ICD) 100 × (eβ − 1), with corresponding 95% CI. A trend was con- in the GBD 2021 database also allow standardized, longitudinal sidered upward if the EAPC and its 95% CI were both > 0, or modeling of epidemiological trends. downward if both were < 0. Using the GBD 2021 data set, this study analyzes the epide- Hierarchical clustering based on EAPC values was used to miological characteristics and temporal trends in the incidence group GBD regions with similar temporal trends in STIs bur- of these five STIs from 1990 to 2021, aiming to inform targeted den. Pairwise dissimilarity was measured using Euclidean prevention strategies and evidence‑based policy. distance: n 2 | Methods d(x,y) = (EAPC EAPC )2 x,i y,i i=1 2.1 | GBD Source Data were derived from the GBD 2021 Study, which provided a where x and y represent two distinct regions and n is the standardized annual time series of health estimates across 204 number of time points. Smaller Euclidean distances indicate countries and territories from 1990 to 2021. STIs excluding HIV greater similarity in temporal trends. Clustering was performed were identified using ICD‐9 and ICD‐10 codes and categorized using Ward's minimum‐variance method to minimize within‐ into five specific types: syphilis, chlamydial infection, gono- cluster variance, and results were visualized in a dendrogram. A coccal infection, trichomoniasis, and genital herpes. The GBD clinically meaningful cut‐off height was chosen to define the 2021 framework synthesized 1223 distinct data sources— final clusters. including vital registration systems, population‐based surveys, Decomposition analysis was used to quantify the contribu- and administrative health databases—within a robust modeling tions of population aging, population growth, and epide- architecture to ensure evidence‐based longitudinal trends miological changes to shifts in incidence between 1990 and ( For risk factor 2021. Frontier analysis assessed the relationship between analysis, unsafe sex was evaluated as a specific contributor to STI burden and sociodemographic development; the frontier STI burden based on the GBD comparative risk assessment of represents the lowest achievable burden for a given devel- 631 risk–outcome pairs. Geographies were categorized into five opment level, and the distance from a country's observed quintiles based on their Socio‐Demographic Index (SDI) scores rate to the frontier (the effective difference) reflects (Supporting Information S9: Method Supplement). unrealized health gains. All data underwent standard GBD protocols, including geo- A Bayesian age–period–cohort
