Journal of Medical Virology
KEYWORDS: stis, global, burden, sdi, high, hiv, age, incidence, regions, health, supporting, years, sex, analysis, gbd


Index (SDI) scores rate to the frontier (the effective difference) reflects (Supporting Information S9: Method Supplement). unrealized health gains. All data underwent standard GBD protocols, including geo- A Bayesian age–period–cohort (BAPC) model with integrated graphic mapping, age–sex disaggregation, and crosswalk ad- nested Laplace approximation (INLA) was used to estimate the justments to mitigate variations in case definitions and multiplicative effects of age, period, and cohort. Smoothness diagnostic assays, ensuring longitudinal and cross‐locational was enforced by assigning independent mean‑zero normal pri- comparability. Data failing quality criteria or deemed non- ors to the second differences of each effect. The model's pre- representative of the general population were excluded. dictive performance was validated retrospectively using syphilis Disease burden was estimated using the GBD Bayesian frame- and gonococcal infection data. Incidence from 1990 to 2010 was work. DisMod‐MR 2.1, a hierarchical Bayesian meta‐regression used to predict 2011–2021 trends, yielding mean absolute per- tool, was employed to synthesize incidence, remission, and centage errors of 0.24% (syphilis) and 0.41% (gonococcal infec- mortality data. This process incorporated covariates and applied tion), indicating high reliability. The BAPC models assign spatial and temporal smoothing priors to ensure internal con- independent mean‐zero normal priors to the second differences sistency, particularly in data‐sparse settings. Spatiotemporal of age (αa), period (βp), and cohort (γc) effects, ensuring Gaussian process regression (ST‐GPR) further refined these smoothness: 2 of 13 Journal of Medical Virology, 2026 t 2 k I UI: 3111.37–5583.56) and accounted for nearly half of all inci- f( |k ) k 2 exp [( i i 1 ) ( i 1 i 2 )]2 dent cases (46.60%), followed by chlamydial infection (2902.10/ i=3 100 000; 32.70%). Syphilis, genital herpes, and gonococcal loo |oo infection together contributed about 20% of new infections. where, a = 1,…, A m oo (age groups), p = 1,…, P (periods), a} oo nd Geographical and sociodemographic disparities strongly influ- c = 5 × (A − a) + P (cnohorts), with A = 20 and P = 32. This p~ro- enced burden distribution, with SSA remaining the epicenter motes gradual transitions, enhancing model stability and for nearly all five STIs: Central SSA had the highest syphilis interpretability. rate, Southern SSA the highest chlamydial, gonococcal, and For incident counts in age group a and future period t, the genital herpes rates, and Eastern SSA the highest trichomoni- model is: asis incidence (Figure 2 and Supporting Information S1: Figure 1). log(Y
