Journal of Medical Virology
KEYWORDS: stis, global, burden, sdi, high, hiv, age, incidence, regions, health, supporting, years, sex, analysis, gbd


the past three decades, with substantial heterogeneity observed STIs incidence has expanded beyond traditional youth bound- across pathogen types and geographies. SSA remains the dis- aries toward pediatric and elderly cohorts. While the proportionate epicenter of the non‐HIV STIs burden. Recent 20–34 years group showed sustained declines, persistent meta‐analyses indicate that prevalence among women in SSA increases emerged in those aged 0–14 and 70+ years. Pathogen‐ (chlamydia 6.90%, gonorrhea 1.80%, trichomoniasis 7.60%) and specific shifts were divergent: syphilis rose across most ages men (4.20%, 1.50%, and 1.70%, respectively) consistently exceed (0–69 years); chlamydial and gonococcal infections increased global averages . While synergistic HIV prevention and predominantly in younger cohorts (0–9 and 0–19 years, treatment have successfully curtailed HIV incidence in the respectively); and trichomoniasis accelerated in most groups region, the persistently elevated burden of non‐HIV STIs— over 25 years. Genital herpes exhibited a trimodal increase (ages particularly chlamydia in Southern and Eastern Africa— 0–19, 40–59, and 70+), contrasting with stable or declining highlights a critical policy gap. This asymmetrical public health trends in remaining populations (Supporting Information S5: prioritization suggests that non‐HIV STIs control has been Figure 5). leaving the region with a dual, yet unevenly addressed, infec- 3.6.4 | Pathogen‐Specific Trajectories tious disease burden . Syphilis incidence increased sharply from 2016 and is projected In high‐burden, resource‐constrained settings—especially in to reach 346.55/100 000 (95% CI 203.43–269.07) by 2035. SSA—inadequate health infrastructure and a severe shortage of Journal of Medical Virology, 2026 7 of 13 FIGURE5 | Decomposition analysis of changes in STIs incidence, 1990–2021. Attribution of changes in incident cases to population growth, population aging, and shifts in epidemiological patterns across 21 GBD regions. trained health‐care workers contribute to systemic delays in high‑burden areas due to socioeconomic inequities and struc- screening, diagnosis, and treatment. These barriers limit access tural barriers to healthcare . to basic services and reduce early detection, often resulting in Attribution analysis reveals a “development paradox” in the contribution of behavioral and structural factors to STIs burden literacy exacerbates the problem, as patients and caregivers may . In low‐SDI regions, the absolute STIs burden is often not recognize symptoms, delaying care‐seeking, while limited higher, but the relative role of unsafe sex is lower; structural insurance and financial hardship further impede timely access . At the community level, fear of diagnosis and its capacity, and HIV coinfection—predominate. Expanding con- consequences—including social isolation, job loss, and housing dom
