Journal of Medical Virology
KEYWORDS: stis, global, burden, sdi, high, hiv, age, incidence, regions, health, supporting, years, sex, analysis, gbd


financial hardship further impede timely access . At the community level, fear of diagnosis and its capacity, and HIV coinfection—predominate. Expanding con- consequences—including social isolation, job loss, and housing dom distribution and integrating STIs services for key popula- insecurity—reduces participation in screening, contact tracing, tions can rapidly reduce incidence, highlighting the need for and treatment . Stigma—particularly for conditions such as systemic interventions . Conversely, in high‐SDI regions, syphilis and HIV—amplifies discrimination and discourages ing risk factor for STIs‐related DALYs, as shown in studies sion and complicating infectious‑disease control . linking lower safer‐sex behavior to higher STIs and mpox risk, 0–14 years age group . This trend reflects critical systemic strategies should be context‐specific. In low‐SDI settings, pri- vulnerabilities, accelerated by unregulated digital connectivity. orities include strengthening prevention and care systems, ex- Early exposure to sexualized content and online exploitation— panding testing, improving diagnostics, integrating STIs and such as sextortion and image‐based abuse—lowers the age of HIV services, and addressing socioeconomic barriers . In sexual debut and increases STIs risk . Clinically, the high‐SDI settings, focus should be placed on targeted behavioral detection of an STIs such as genital HSV‑2 in preadolescents interventions, such as promoting safer‐sex awareness, scaling transmission of this serotype is rare in children, warranting integrating risk‐reduction support into existing services . immediate multidisciplinary forensic assessment . Fur- Decomposition analysis indicates that global STIs incidence has thermore, the high prevalence of syphilis in children aged risen substantially over the past 30 years, primarily driven by 0–9 years signals systemic failures in preventing mo- population growth, particularly in developing regions . ther‑to‑child transmission . Despite effective prenatal While epidemiological shifts remain secondary to demographic screening, “missed opportunities” remain common in 8 of 13 Journal of Medical Virology, 2026 FIGURE6 | Frontier analysis of the STIs burden relative to socioeconomic development. Relationship between ASIR and the Socio‐demographic Index (SDI) from 1990 to 2021 (A) and for the year 2021 (B). factors, the increasing prevalence of asymptomatic cases and networks in both urban and rural areas increase transmission cate transmission control . Furthermore, the emergence of interaction between STIs and the high regional prevalence of AMR—notably in Neisseria gonorrhoeae—poses a critical chal- HIV; biological evidence indicates that non‑HIV STIs raise lenge, with significant resistance to ciprofloxacin, penicillin, susceptibility to HIV acquisition, while HIV‑related immuno- and tetracycline documented . Population aging has also suppression can alter the presentation and transmission of
