Journal of Medical Virology
KEYWORDS: stis, global, burden, sdi, high, hiv, age, incidence, regions, health, supporting, years, sex, analysis, gbd


lenge, with significant resistance to ciprofloxacin, penicillin, susceptibility to HIV acquisition, while HIV‑related immuno- and tetracycline documented . Population aging has also suppression can alter the presentation and transmission of emerged as a key driver, accounting for 29.52% of the increase other infections . in chlamydial burden . This trend is exacerbated by im- Bridging the gap between high SDI and poor STIs outcomes, munosenescence, which impairs Chlamydia trachomatis clear- therefore, requires shifting from general economic development ance, and lower screening awareness among older adults, toward equity‑focused interventions. Priorities include inte- leading to delayed diagnosis and more severe clinical out- grating STIs services into existing HIV platforms, deploying comes . mobile screening along labor corridors, and supporting com- Frontier analysis highlights the “South African paradox”— munity‑led programs to reduce stigma and improve atively high SDI—underscores the limitations of macro- Our BAPC‐based projections through 2035 signal a critical economic metrics in capturing subnational health disparities. epidemiological transition defined by widening “SDI‐linked Although South Africa ranks high in SDI, it exhibits extreme divergence.” While high‐SDI regions have stabilized, low‐ domestic income inequality, which often obscures structural SDI areas face an alarming six‐fold rise in incidence. This barriers to healthcare. Historical healthcare disparities, a legacy trend, coupled with high projection uncertainty, suggests of the apartheid system, continue to manifest as geographic and that current interventions are failing to counteract rapid racial inequities in access to comprehensive sexual health ser- population growth and fragile healthcare infrastructures in vices, leading to delayed diagnosis and sustained community resource‐limited settings . A pivotal finding is the post transmission . −2016 rebound in female STIs rates and the projected surge The circular migrant labor system—especially in mining and in syphilis and trichomoniasis. This resurgence suggests industry—remains a key driver of STIs spread. Long‑term that traditional maternal and child health frameworks may spousal separation and the formation of concurrent sexual be inadequate against evolving transmission dynamics . Journal of Medical Virology, 2026 9 of 13 FIGURE7 | Global and regional projections of STI incidence through 2035. Projected ASIR of STIs for the global population (A) and across high‐ SDI (B), high‐middle‐SDI (C), middle‐SDI (D), low‐middle‐SDI (E), and low‐SDI (F) regions from 2022 to 2035. Furthermore, the shift in peak incidence from youth Primary prevention must be anchored in age‐appropriate edu- (20–24 years) toward middle‐aged (40–44 years) and pedi- cational frameworks. Evidence from a 30‐year systematic atric cohorts represents a
