Journal of Medical Virology
KEYWORDS: stis, global, burden, sdi, high, hiv, age, incidence, regions, health, supporting, years, sex, analysis, gbd


sincere gratitude. We especially thank them for providing authorization and technical support for the JD_GBDR soft- ware. The team at Jingding Medical Tech offered invaluable assistance AMR by transitioning from routine over‐screening to precision‐ in data processing. based stewardship . Research priorities should focus on the development of combination therapies for N. gonorrhoeae and Funding Mycoplasma genitalium, alongside the advancement of novel vaccinology . Emerging technologies, particularly vagi- The authors have nothing to report. nal vaccine delivery systems designed to induce localized mucosal immunity, represent a promising frontier for sustain- Ethics Statement able transmission control . The protocol of the GBD 2021 has been approved by the Research Ethics Our analysis has several limitations that should be considered Board at the University of Washington. The GBD 2021 shall be con- of GBD 2021 data vary across regions, with sparse data from procedures, as well as applicable federal, state, and local laws. low‐ and middle‐income countries potentially compromising estimate accuracy. Second, the current data set does not spe- Conflicts of Interest cifically capture gender‐diverse populations, and the exclusion The authors declare no conflicts of interest. of high‐risk groups to estimate general population prevalence may introduce selection bias. While we used MR‐BRT cross- Data Availability Statement walks to adjust for heterogeneities in diagnostic methods, residual confounding from unmeasured environmental factors The data sets analyzed during the current study are available at http:// remains a challenge. Future studies should prioritize local, ghdx.healthdata.org/gbd-results-tool. high‐quality data collection to validate and refine these macro‐ level insights. References 1.D. S. Gill, S. Ram, and P. A. Rice, “Biologic Drug Development for 5 | Conclusions Microbiology Reviews 38 (2025): e10724. 2.J. S. Jensen and M. Unemo, “Antimicrobial Treatment and Resistance In summary, while global ASIR have remained relatively stable in Sexually Transmitted Bacterial Infections,” Nature Reviews over the past three decades, our findings reveal a substantial Microbiology 22 (2024): 435–450. expansion in the absolute STIs burden primarily driven by population growth. The widening “SDI‐linked divergence” and 3.M. Deng, J. Chen, Z. Wang, et al., “Trends in the Incidence of Common Sexually Transmitted Infections at the Global, Regional and the persistent “development paradox” in high‐SDI regions un- National Levels, 1990–2021: Results of the Global Burden of Disease derscore that current “one‐size‐fits‐all” strategies are no longer sufficient to meet the WHO 2030 targets. 4.Z. Wu, L. Yue, Z. Chu, Y. Jiang, and Q. Hu, “Global, Regional, and undergo a strategic
