NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: aspirin, pubmed, pubmed pmid, pmid, liver, syndrome, reye, alt, reye syndrome, salicylate, days, hepatotoxicity, arthritis, levels, developed


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Aspirin. [Updated 2017 Jul 27]. Bookshelf URL: Aspirin Updated: July 27, 2017. OVERVIEW Introduction Aspirin or acetylsalicylic acid is perhaps the most commonly used analgesic and antipyretic medication doses, aspirin can cause moderate to marked serum aminotransferase elevations occasionally with jaundice or signs of liver dysfunction, and in lower doses in susceptible children with a febrile illness aspirin can lead to Reye syndrome. Background Aspirin is a salicylate, but technically is also a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID). Like the NSAIDs, salicylates are inhibitors of tissue cyclooxygenases (Cox-1 and -2) which cause a decrease in synthesis of proinflammatory prostaglandins, potent mediators of pain and inflammation. In distinction to other NSAIDs, however, aspirin is a noncompetitive and irreversible inhibitor of Cox-1, so that its effects are longer lasting and less easily reversed than those of typical NSAIDs. Aspirin has potent effects in inhibiting platelet function that lasts for the lifetime of the platelet. Aspirin’s potent and lasting effects on Cox-1 in gastric epithelial cells account for its frequent gastric side effects and association with peptic ulcer disease and gastrointestinal bleeding. Aspirin is indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate pain from headaches, colds, arthritis, menstrual periods, toothaches and joint and muscle aches caused by trauma, osteoarthritis, or rheumatoid arthritis. Higher, more continuous doses of aspirin are effective in therapy of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, acute rheumatic fever and Kawasaki disease. Aspirin has antipyretic effec ts and can be used for management of fever, but should not be used in children or adolescents because of its potential to cause Reye syndrome. In low daily doses (81 mg), aspirin is used to decrease the risk of coronary and cerebrovascular disease and reocclusion after coronary revascularization or stent placement. Aspirin became clinically available in the United States in the early part of the 20th century and is currently widely used as an over-the-counter medication. It is available in multiple generic formulations, either alone or in combination with other pain relievers, antacids, or cough and cold medications. Aspirin is typically taken in doses of 330 to 660 mg every 4 to 6 hours. The dose used for antiplatelet effects in prevention of complications of atherosclerosis is 81 mg once daily. Common brand names for aspirin alone or in combination with other agents include Bayer’s Aspirin,
