NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: aspirin, pubmed, pubmed pmid, pmid, liver, syndrome, reye, alt, reye syndrome, salicylate, days, hepatotoxicity, arthritis, levels, developed


used for antiplatelet effects in prevention of complications of atherosclerosis is 81 mg once daily. Common brand names for aspirin alone or in combination with other agents include Bayer’s Aspirin, Alka Seltzer, Anacin, Ascriptin, Aspergum, BC Powder, Bufferin, Ecotrin, Excedrin and Stanback. Hepatotoxicity Patients on long term, moderate-to-high dose aspirin therapy frequently have elevations in serum ALT levels. With high doses, ALT elevations are common and can be marked and associated with mild increases in alkaline 2 LiverTox phosphatase and bilirubin. The more dramatic examples of aspirin hepatotoxicity usually occur with doses of 1,800 to 3,200 mg daily (>100 mg/kg) and with salicylate levels of greater than 25 mg/dL, but mild-to-moderate ALT elevations occur with even lower doses and lower serum levels. These abnormalities resolve rapidly with discontinuation of aspirin, but instances of resolution despite continuation of aspirin in the same or lower doses (adaptation) have also been described. The hepatotoxicity of aspirin is usually mild and asymptomatic, although with higher doses symptoms of nausea, anorexia and abdominal pain and even encephalopathy with signs of hepatic dysfunction (hyperammonemia and coagulopathy) can occur. Bilirubin elevations are usually mild or absent. Mild eosinophilia may accompany the enzyme elevations, but rash, fever and other allergic manifestations are rare. Liver biopsy histology generally shows minimal injury despite the height of the enzyme elevations; electron microscopy may reveal fat and mitochondrial abnormalities. Aspirin can often be continued in lower doses safely. Likelihood score: A[HD] (well known cause of clinically apparent liver injury when given in high doses). Reye Syndrome A special form of aspirin hepatotoxicity is Reye Syndrome, the development of lactic acidosis, microvesicular fat and hepatic dysfunction with encephalopathy and coma. Serum aminotransferase levels are usually markedly increased while serum bilirubin is minimally or only moderated elevated despite signs of hepatic failure such as hyperammonemia and encephalopathy. Reye syndrome usually occurs in children or young adults developing a few days to a week after a prodromal febrile illness, typically influenza B or varicella. It is often rapidly fatal, but in milder cases recovery is rapid. Reye syndrome was first reported in Australia in 1963, but subsequently was reported from around the world with increasing frequency and peaking in incidence in the 1970s and 1980s. Subsequently, case reports followed by careful epidemiological surveys linked the occurrence of Reye syndrome to receipt of aspirin during the prodromal viral illness. With medical recognition of this association, followed
