NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: aspirin, pubmed, pubmed pmid, pmid, liver, syndrome, reye, alt, reye syndrome, salicylate, days, hepatotoxicity, arthritis, levels, developed


Subsequently, case reports followed by careful epidemiological surveys linked the occurrence of Reye syndrome to receipt of aspirin during the prodromal viral illness. With medical recognition of this association, followed by wide scale public warnings, the use of aspirin in children with fever decreased markedly and the frequency of Reye syndrome fell dramatically. In the United States, reported cases of Reye syndrome fell from more than 500 cases per year before 1986 to less 2 cases per year thereafter. Occasional rare case reports of Reye syndrome still appear. Reye syndrome can also occur in adults. Mechanism of Injury The association of hepatotoxicity with use of high doses of aspirin, short latency and linkage to high serum levels of salicylates suggest that aspirin is a direct, intrinsic hepatotoxin. Patients with severe hepatic reactions to aspirin can safely take acetaminophen or other NSAIDs, and usually tolerate lower doses of aspirin without problems. In the case of Reye syndrome, aspirin has been shown to inhibit mitochondrial function and the combination of a systemic viral illness with drug induced mitochondrial dysfunction is thought to underlie the pathogenesis of Reye syndrome. Other drugs that inhibit mitochondrial function (amiodarone, valproate, nucleoside analogues) can cause a similar clinical syndrome. The mitochondrial failure is manifested by Lactic Acidosis, acute microvesicular Steatosis and Hepatic dysfunction (LASH). Outcome and Management Liver injury from high doses of aspirin is usually mild and self-limited. Symptoms attributable to liver injury (as opposed to the other side effects of aspirin itself) are common but generally nonspecific and mild. Typically, ALT elevations fall to normal within days of stopping. No convincing cases of acute liver failure or chronic liver injury or chronic vanishing bile duct syndrome due to aspirin have been published. Reye syndrome induced by aspirin, on the other hand, is a serious and potentially life threatening condition that should be managed with emergency intensive care. The mitochondrial failure of Reye syndrome is rapidly reversible and the major focus of management should be clinical support during the acute phase. Infusions of 20% glucose may help sustain hepatic and brain function during the temporary mitochondrial failure. Recurrence of Reye syndrome has been Aspirin 3 reported in children who have recovered and were then treated again with aspirin during an acute febrile illness. Children who require long term therapy with aspirin or other mitochondrial inhibitors should receive i nfluenza and varicella vaccine and parents should be
