Chapter 32: Bone and Joint Complications in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, fracture, risk, age, fractures, women, bone, glucose, hip, study, type, years, health, type diabetes, adults


32–1 CHAPTER 32 BONE AND JOINT COMPLICATIONS IN DIABETES Ann V. Schwartz, PhD, and Nancy E. Lane, MD Dr. Ann V. Schwartz is Professor, Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, at the University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA. Dr. Nancy E. Lane is Professor of Medicine and Rheumatology, Department of Medicine, at the University of California at Davis, Sacramento, CA. Received in final form April 23, 2016. SUMMARY Fractures and osteoarthritis (OA) are common conditions among older adults, account for considerable morbidity in the United States, and occur more frequently with diabetes. At age 50 years, the lifetime risk of a hip fracture, an event associated with substantial risk of increased disability, is 17% for women and 6% for men in the United States. Type 1 diabetes is characterized by lower bone mineral density and an estimated sevenfold increase in the risk of hip fracture. In type 2 diabetes, in spite of average or higher bone density, the risk of hip fractures is increased by about 70% and risk of non-spine fractures by about 20%. An important clinical implication is that current methods of assessing fracture risk in older adults, which rely primarily on bone density, tend to underestimate risk in those with type 2 diabetes. More frequent falls are observed in older adults with type 2 diabetes, and this is likely a contributing factor to increased fracture risk. In addition, there is evidence from clinical and animal studies that diabetic bone is more fragile for a given bone density, although the reasons for this increased fragility remain unclear. Diabetes therapies may also influence skeletal health. In particular, thiazolidinediones are associated with increased fracture risk in women. The effects of maintaining good glycemic control on fracture risk are not clearly established. Successful prevention of fractures among those with diabetes may include interventions to reduce the risk of falls and to promote bone strength through physical activity and proper nutrition, with use of pharmacological treatments in those at very high risk of fracture. Over 20% of adults age 60–74 years have knee OA, a leading cause of disability in older adults, and the prevalence rises to >40% in those with diabetes. OA and diabetes are both associated with overweight and obesity, and this may account at least in part for the higher prevalence of OA among those with diabetes. In addition, both conditions are characterized by higher levels of inflammation.
