Chapter 32: Bone and Joint Complications in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, fracture, risk, age, fractures, women, bone, glucose, hip, study, type, years, health, type diabetes, adults


obesity, and this may account at least in part for the higher prevalence of OA among those with diabetes. In addition, both conditions are characterized by higher levels of inflammation. Rheumatoid arthritis is also more common in those with diabetes, affecting about 8% of older adults without diabetes and 13% of those with diabetes. Other joint problems, including Charcot joint (neuropathic arthropathy) and frozen shoulder, are less common but are also seen more frequently in those with diabetes. Measures to prevent OA include weight reduction and physical activity. As with fractures, the effects of maintaining glycemic control on OA are not clearly understood. BONE COMPLICATIONS IN DIABETES INTRODUCTION Health Burden and Economic Costs of Fractures Fractures are an important source of mortality, morbidity, and health care costs in older adults in the United States. Among U.S. women at age 60 years, the median estimated 10-year risk of a major osteo­ porotic fracture (hip, vertebral, wrist, or humerus) is 22% (1). The lifetime risk of a hip fracture at age 50 years has been esti­ mated as 17% in women and 6% in men (2). Hip fractures are the most devastating fracture in older adults. Mortality is higher in the year after a hip fracture in men (37%) and women (26%) (3). Some of this excess mortality is due to comorbidities in those who experience hip fracture. About 25% of the excess mortality is estimated to be causally related to the hip fracture itself (4). Morbidity following hip fracture is a serious concern. Most older adults do not return to their functional status before the hip fracture (5). Walking ability in particular is decreased, with 50% of hip fracture patients experiencing the need for additional aid in walking a year after the fracture (6). Patients with diabetes are more likely to have a poor outcome after a hip fracture. A study in the United States found longer length of stay in the hospital or rehabilitation facility, slower recovery of functional status, and lower likelihood of being discharged home in diabetic patients with renal or neuropathy complications compared with nondiabetic patients (7). Vertebral fractures are also associated with higher post-fracture mortality, largely due to their association with physical frailty and weight loss (8). Health-related quality of life is reduced on average even several years after a vertebral fracture (9). Other fractures are associated 32–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition with significant short-term
