Chapter 32: Bone and Joint Complications in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, fracture, risk, age, fractures, women, bone, glucose, hip, study, type, years, health, type diabetes, adults


(8). Health-related quality of life is reduced on average even several years after a vertebral fracture (9). Other fractures are associated 32–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition with significant short-term morbidity, measured as days of bed rest and reduced activity, but do not appear to have substantial long-term effects on functional status (9,10). The health care costs associated with treat­ ment of fractures in the United States are substantial. Annual costs for an estimated 2 million incident fractures in those age ≥50 years were approximately $17 billion in 2005 (11). Hip fractures represented 14% of the total fractures but accounted for 72% of total costs. Costs are predicted to rise nearly 50% by 2025, driven in particular by increases in the population age 65–74 years. Separate assessments of the costs of fractures among those with diabetes are not available. However, with the high prevalence of diabetes in older adults, the increased risk of incident fracture in those with diabetes, and the greater likelihood of poor recovery after a fracture, it is clear that fractures in patients with diabetes result in significant health care costs. Frequent Falls and Bone Fragility Increase Fracture Risk Fractures result when the strength of a bone is not sufficient to sustain a partic­ ular trauma. In older adults, bone strength declines, and moderate trauma, often due to a fall from standing height or less, may be enough to cause a fracture. Ninety percent of hip fractures are the result of a moderate trauma fall (12). The majority of wrist, pelvis, humerus, rib, leg, hand, patella, ankle, elbow, and face fractures are also due to a fall (13). On the other hand, falls are common among older adults, with one-third reporting at least one fall per year, and most falls do not result in injury. About 3%–5% of falls in older adults result in a fracture; about 1% result in hip fracture (14). Even with this small proportion of falls that result in a fracture, increased falling is a risk factor for non-spine fractures (15). Bone fragility contributes to fracture risk, and bone mineral density (BMD), measured by dual-energy x-ray absorpti­ ometry (DXA), is an established method of assessing bone strength and predicting fracture risk. BMD at the hip or spine is often expressed as a BMD T-score, the number of standard deviations below the average BMD in healthy 20–29-year-old non-Hispanic white women (16,17). A negative T-score
