Chapter 32: Bone and Joint Complications in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, fracture, risk, age, fractures, women, bone, glucose, hip, study, type, years, health, type diabetes, adults


the hip or spine is often expressed as a BMD T-score, the number of standard deviations below the average BMD in healthy 20–29-year-old non-Hispanic white women (16,17). A negative T-score indicates BMD lower than this young adult average. Using BMD, osteoporosis was originally operationally defined by the World Health Organization as a femoral neck BMD T-score of -2.5 or lower. This has since been expanded to include total hip and lumbar spine BMD T-scores of -2.5 or less. Osteoporosis can also be identified based on a history of low trauma fracture, particularly of the spine or hip. In addition, Dr. Kanis and colleagues have developed a frac­ ture prediction algorithm (FRAX) that predicts the 10-year fracture risk of an individual based on bone density and other risk factors for fracture, including age, sex, race/ethnicity, and body size (18). A specific FRAX algorithm has been devel­ oped for the United States. Sources of Fracture Data Limited sources of data are available in the United States that identify both diabetes and fracture. The National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys (NHANES) administered during 1999–2010 asked participants about a history of fractures and also collected data on diabetes status. Ascertainment of prevalent fractures in the NHANES was based solely on self-report without any adjudication, which likely results in both over- and underreporting of fractures (19). A more important limitation of this approach is the inability to distinguish fractures that occurred before or after the onset of diabetes. For the population in nursing homes, the National Nursing Home Survey (NNHS) conducted in 2004 included questions regarding the occurrence of a hip or any other fracture in the previous 180 days. Questions were answered by the nursing home staff familiar with a participating resident. The staff members were asked to consult medical records when providing answers to the NNHS questions. Identification of diabetes in the NHANES is discussed in more detail in Chapter 3 Prevalence and Incidence of Type 2 Diabetes and Prediabetes. Briefly, the NHANES includes a fasting plasma glucose (FPG) test and glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c) assay, as well as self-re­ ported diabetes diagnosis, and therefore identifies those who were unaware of their diabetes status. In certain years, the NHANES also included a 2-hour oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) to identify undiagnosed diabetes; however, this test was not used for identifying diabetes in this chapter. In the NHANES, it is difficult to distinguish those with
