Chapter 32: Bone and Joint Complications in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, fracture, risk, age, fractures, women, bone, glucose, hip, study, type, years, health, type diabetes, adults


glucose tolerance test (OGTT) to identify undiagnosed diabetes; however, this test was not used for identifying diabetes in this chapter. In the NHANES, it is difficult to distinguish those with type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Participants who reported a diagnosis of diabetes were not queried regarding the type of diabetes. Since fractures are primarily a concern in older individuals, the analyses in this chapter are limited to participants age ≥50 years. In this age group, the great majority (~99%) of participants reporting diabetes have type 2 rather than type 1 diabetes. For incident fracture, data on diabetes status from the NHANES III (1988–1994) and NHANES 1999–2004 were combined with Medicare claims records to compare fracture rates in participants age ≥65 years (20). For analyses comparing fracture rates in those with and without diabetes, diabetes status was based on self-report of a physician’s diagnosis of diabetes. For analyses comparing those with diabetes, prediabetes, and normal glucose levels, diabetes status was based on self-report and A1c levels. Participants were excluded from analyses if they reported a previous hip, wrist, or spine fracture (13%). The prevalence of diagnosed diabetes was 15% in people age ≥65 years. Only about 3% of those with diagnosed diabetes appeared to have type 1 diabetes, identified based on age at diagnosis and exclusive use of insulin. Additional sources of data for incident fracture are longitudinal cohort studies in populations of older adults. Data for this chapter are provided from five cohorts in the United States. Four are fixed cohorts established for longitudinal studies of older adults: the Women’s Health Initiative Observational Study (WHI-OS); the Study of Osteoporotic Fractures (SOF) in older women; the Osteoporotic Fractures in Men (MrOS) study; and the Health, Aging, and Bone and Joint Complications in Diabetes 32–3 Body Composition (Health ABC) study in older men and women. The fifth cohort is a dynamic population—the residents of Rochester, Minnesota. Each cohort is described in more detail in the following sections. In the Rochester population, fractures were identified by medical record review. In the fixed cohorts, fractures were first identified by self-report and then adjudicated using medical records. All frac­ tures were adjudicated in SOF, MrOS, and Health ABC; only hip fracture was adju­ dicated in WHI-OS. Thus, specificity for fracture is high in these studies, but some fractures were likely not identified. In the four fixed cohorts, diabetes was ascertained by self-report of a
