Chapter 32: Bone and Joint Complications in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, fracture, risk, age, fractures, women, bone, glucose, hip, study, type, years, health, type diabetes, adults


hazard ratio for hip fracture, comparing women with type 1 diabetes and those without diabetes, was 6.4 (95% CI 3.9–10.3). In a meta-analysis of type 1 diabetes and hip fracture based on these two studies from the United States and four additional studies in Europe, the combined relative risk for hip fracture associated with type 1 diabetes was 6.3 (95% CI 2.6–15.1) (23). Evidence regarding the association between type 1 diabetes and incident frac­ ture at other skeletal sites is very limited. No studies are available for U.S. popula­ tions. Studies in European populations have generally reported an increased risk of non-spine or all clinical fractures in type 1 diabetes, but the magnitude has ranged from 1.3 (24) to 3.1 (25). Smaller studies in the United States have reported that type 1 diabetes is asso­ ciated with lower bone density in adult women. Among middle-aged (average age 43 years) premenopausal women in the ProHealth Study, recruited in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, BMD was lower at the total hip and femoral neck, but not at the spine, in women with type 1 diabetes compared with healthy controls (26). Similarly, among younger premenopausal women (average age 28 years) recruited in western New York, total hip and femoral neck, but not spine, BMD were lower in those with type 1 diabetes (27). Studies in the United States are not available for men, but reports from other regions indicate that BMD is lower in men with type 1 diabetes as well (28). Consistent with these findings, a meta-analysis of studies from North America, Europe, and Australia found a modest reduction in bone density among those with type 1 diabetes (29). Average BMD Z-score was -0.22 at the spine and -0.37 at the total hip in those with type 1 diabetes. More frequent falls contribute to fracture risk along with low bone density, but studies of fall frequency in type 1 diabetes are not available. The reasons for reduced BMD and increased fracture risk with type 1 diabetes are not clearly understood. Insulin is anabolic for bone, and lack of insulin may contribute to bone fragility (30). Hyperglycemia may have negative effects on bone-forming cells (osteoblasts) (31). Another potential source of bone fragility is higher levels of advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs) in bone collagen. AGEs are the end result of reac­ tions between protein and sugar. They accumulate in collagen throughout the body, including bone collagen. Higher
