Chapter 32: Bone and Joint Complications in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, fracture, risk, age, fractures, women, bone, glucose, hip, study, type, years, health, type diabetes, adults


advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs) in bone collagen. AGEs are the end result of reac­ tions between protein and sugar. They accumulate in collagen throughout the body, including bone collagen. Higher AGE levels are found with older age and with diabetes. Their presence in bone collagen appears to change the material properties of bone, potentially increasing the risk of fracture (32,33,34). TYPE 2 DIABETES AND BONE COMPLICATIONS Occurrence of Fractures Prevalence of Fractures. Data were analyzed for Diabetes in America, 3rd edition, based on the NHANES 1999– 2010, in which participants were asked “Has a doctor ever told you that you had broken or fractured your hip, wrist, or spine?” Starting in 2005, participants were also asked a separate question about the occurrence of any other fractures after age 20 years. Fracture reports were not adjudicated but relied solely on self-report. Studies that have compared self-report of fractures with medical records have found that fractures may be over- and underreported (19). In a cohort of older women, about 11% of self-reported fractures were not confirmed 32–4 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition when radiographs were examined (35). A common pattern of overreporting is an injury event with radiographs showing no fracture, while the participant reports that a fracture occurred. Studies have also documented a failure to report fractures. About 7% of fractures found through review of medical records were not reported by participants (36,37). For the NHANES analyses, all fractures were included regardless of the degree of trauma involved. Fractures resulting from higher trauma events, such as a car accident or fall from a ladder, are also associated with lower bone density (38). These data available from the NHANES provide the prevalence, not the incidence, of fracture. Among participants who also reported diabetes, a prevalent fracture may have occurred before the onset of diabetes. Similarly, prevalent fractures in participants with prediabetes may have occurred before the development of prediabetes. In these analyses of NHANES data, the definition of diabetes is based on self-report of diabetes, an elevated FPG (≥126 mg/dL), or an elevated A1c (≥6.5% [≥48 mmol/mol]) test. Additional participants may have been identified with diabetes if the 2-hour OGTT had also been considered in defining diabetes. However, FPG and A1c are the tests commonly used to identify diabetes in clinical practice. Both type 1 and type 2 diabetes are included in the NHANES data. In the age range considered (≥50 years),
