Chapter 32: Bone and Joint Complications in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, fracture, risk, age, fractures, women, bone, glucose, hip, study, type, years, health, type diabetes, adults


(self-report alone). Fracture incidence was not statistically different in those with prediabetes and normal glucose in either race/ethnic group. The hazard ratios comparing those with prediabetes and normal glucose were 1.20 (95% CI 0.96–1.51) for non-Hispanic whites and 1.42 (95% CI 0.72–2.81) for Mexican Americans. Comparisons of the incidence of fracture in those with and without diabetes have also been assessed from longitudinal studies that identified fracture events during follow-up of cohorts of older women and men. The WHI-OS, a cohort of women age 50–79 years at baseline, provides the largest study of diabetes and fracture incidence in the United States (39). The cohort included 93,405 older women, including 5,285 women with diabetes, who were followed for inci­ dent fractures for an average of 7 years. Fractures were first identified by self-​ report at annual clinic visits. Hip fracture reports, but not those for other fracture sites, were adjudicated by review of medical records. Fractures were included regardless of degree of trauma since lower BMD is associated with fracture risk in high as well as low trauma fracture cases (38). Diabetes was ascertained based on participant report of a diabetes diagnosis or use of diabetes medication. In models adjusted for age, women with diabetes had a 30% increased rate of any fracture (age-adjusted relative risk [RR] 1.3, 95% CI 1.2–1.4) (Table 32.6). Diabetes was associated with an increased fracture rate in non-Hispanic black women and in non-Hispanic white women. The rate of hip fracture was elevated in women with diabetes (age-adjusted RR 1.4, 95% CI 1.2–1.7) (Table 32.7). Fractures at other specific sites considered, including ankle, foot, shoulder, and clinical spine, were also elevated, with the exception of wrist/ forearm fractures. The unadjusted inci­ dence rates for hip and non-spine fracture among WHI-OS women with diabetes, including follow-up from baseline (1993– 1998) to 2010, are provided in Tables 32.8 and 32.9 (A. Schwartz, unpublished data). The association between diabetes and fracture has also been studied in men in the United States, although these studies have been smaller than the WHI-OS. The largest study to date followed men in Rochester, Minnesota, with diabetes (N=992) for up to 30 years for incident fractures (40). Fractures were identified from medical records of inpatient and outpatient visits. Those due to excessive trauma were excluded. Diabetes was ascertained from medical record review, based on a record of diabetes diag­ nosis after age 30 years combined
