Chapter 32: Bone and Joint Complications in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, fracture, risk, age, fractures, women, bone, glucose, hip, study, type, years, health, type diabetes, adults


that time, clinicians need to be aware that underestimation of fracture risk occurs with the use of BMD T-score or FRAX to assess risk in patients with diabetes. Reasons for Increased Fracture Risk With Type 2 Diabetes Although older adults with type 2 diabetes tend to have higher BMD, they also para­ doxically have increased fracture risk. This observation is likely due in part to a higher rate of falls in those with diabetes, but falls do not fully account for the increased fracture risk (39,46,56). In addition, diabetic bone appears to be more fragile for a given BMD. Understanding the reasons for this reduced bone strength in diabetes is a focus of research. In a small study of postmenopausal women using high resolution peripheral computed tomography, increased porosity of cortical bone at the tibia and radius was found in diabetic women with a history of fracture compared with controls (57). These deficits in cortical bone microarchitecture could weaken bone but would not be identified in a DXA measurement of BMD. As discussed for type 1 diabetes, higher levels of AGEs in bone collagen may make the bone brittle and increase fracture risk (32,33,34). RISK FACTORS FOR FRACTURE OF PARTICULAR CONCERN IN PATIENTS WITH DIABETES Other traditional risk factors for fracture, in addition to low BMD and more frequent falls, appear to be associated with fracture risk in those with diabetes. In the study of diabetes and fracture in Rochester, Minnesota, residents, predictors of incident fracture included older age, female gender, prior fracture, lower BMI, reduced physical activity, and use of corticosteroids (40). The following sections review risk factors related to complications or treatment of diabetes. Diabetes Complications In broader populations, poor vision, reduced kidney function, and reduced peripheral nerve function have been iden­ tified as risk factors for fracture. Stroke is strongly associated with increased fracture risk, and some studies have found that myocardial infarction is associated with fracture. These findings suggest microvas­ cular and macrovascular complications are probably risk factors for fracture in diabetic patients. However, there is limited direct evidence regarding the association between diabetes-related complications and fracture in diabetic populations. The Health ABC study found that increased risk of fracture among diabetic participants was associated with neuropathy and history of stroke/transient ischemic attack (56). In Rochester, Minnesota, residents with type 2 diabetes, neuropathy was a risk factor for fracture (HR 1.3, 95% CI 1.1–1.6) in multivariable
