Chapter 32: Bone and Joint Complications in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, fracture, risk, age, fractures, women, bone, glucose, hip, study, type, years, health, type diabetes, adults


All rights reserved. 32–14 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition episodes associated with insulin use may increase the risk for a fall resulting in frac­ ture. One study among Medicare patients with diabetes reported an increased risk of fall-related fractures among those with a hypoglycemic episode (66). Insulin use may be a marker for other factors that increase fracture risk, including reduced physical performance and higher preva­ lence of diabetic complications. Insulin use also suggests a decline in pancreatic function that may have a negative effect on bone strength. Glycemic Control The effects of glycemic control on the risk of fractures remain unclear. Observational studies indicate that poor glycemic control is associated with higher fracture risk (67,68). In a large randomized trial comparing intensive and standard glycemic control, no difference in the rate of fractures or falls was observed across the two treatment groups (69). However, the intensive and standard control groups achieved median A1c values of 6.4% and 7.5% (58 mmol/mol), respectively. Increased fracture risk may be confined to those with poor control. Diabetes Duration Longer duration of diabetes is asso­ ciated with increased fracture risk (21,22,40,46,70). For example, in the Nurses’ Health Study, the relative risk of hip fracture was 3.1 (95% CI 2.3–4.0) among women with duration of diabetes ≥12 years, while the relative risk was 1.7 (95% CI 1.2–2.4) among those with <5 years duration, compared with nondia­ betic women (22). These results suggest that diabetes has a cumulative impact on fracture risk. With greater understanding of the characteristics of diabetes that are most important in determining fracture risk, efforts to prevent fractures in this population can be better targeted. FRACTURE PREVENTION Fall Prevention Reducing falls in older adults is one aspect of fracture prevention. Effective interventions to reduce falls in older adults have been identified in broad populations, including exercise programs, home safety interventions, and multifactorial assess­ ment and intervention programs (71). These interventions have not been tested separately among patients with diabetes, but it seems likely that they would be effective. An exercise intervention has been shown to improve balance, a risk factor for falls, among older adults with type 2 diabetes (72). Pharmacological Therapy In older adults with osteoporosis, pharma­ cological therapy may be warranted to prevent fractures. A number of effective therapies are available to reduce fracture risk in older adults with osteoporosis, defined by low BMD and/or presence of vertebral fractures, based
