Chapter 32: Bone and Joint Complications in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, fracture, risk, age, fractures, women, bone, glucose, hip, study, type, years, health, type diabetes, adults


warranted to prevent fractures. A number of effective therapies are available to reduce fracture risk in older adults with osteoporosis, defined by low BMD and/or presence of vertebral fractures, based on evidence from randomized placebo-controlled trials (73). Separate trials of these therapies have not been conducted among patients with diabetes. Very limited data are available from post hoc subgroup analyses of larger trials, examining efficacy in diabetic patients. In the Fracture Intervention Trial, alendronate treatment compared with placebo prevented bone loss in diabetic women as effectively as in nondiabetic women (74). Too few fracture outcomes occurred in the diabetic women to consider fracture efficacy in this subgroup. In a post hoc analysis of the Multiple Outcomes of Raloxifene Evaluation (MORE) trial of raloxifene, treatment was effective in preventing vertebral fractures in women with diabetes (75). These two trials suggest that osteoporosis therapies are likely to be effective treatments in diabetic patients with low BMD or prevalent vertebral fracture, although evidence is limited. The entry criteria for trials of osteoporosis therapy generally select participants with low BMD and/or vertebral fractures. However, diabetic patients fracture at a higher BMD on average. Thus, the efficacy of pharmacological therapy in diabetic patients with elevated fracture risk, but BMD above the threshold for osteoporosis, has not been tested. JOINT COMPLICATIONS IN DIABETES WHY ARTHRITIS MATTERS The prevalence of arthritis complica­ tions in the U.S. population is high. Osteoarthritis (OA) or degenerative joint disease most frequently involves the knees, hips, hands, and spine and affects nearly 14% of individuals age ≥25 years and nearly 34% of those ≥65 years (76,77,78,79). In 2010–2012, an estimated 52.5 million adults in the United States had doctor-diagnosed arthritis (80). Arthritis was the second most common comorbid condition (16%) for adult primary care visits in 2006 (81). The economic costs associated with arthritis are high. In 2007, direct health care costs for patients with OA were over two times higher than costs for similar patients without OA (82). Medical expen­ ditures for arthritis and joint pain in 2012 among adults age ≥65 years were an estimated $30.2 billion, exceeded only by the costs of treatment for heart conditions and for cancer (83). In 2012, knee arthro­ plasty and hip replacement were among the top five operating room procedures for adults age ≥45 years (84). Since the prev­ alence of OA increases with age, the costs are rapidly rising with the growing
