Chapter 32: Bone and Joint Complications in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, fracture, risk, age, fractures, women, bone, glucose, hip, study, type, years, health, type diabetes, adults


among the top five operating room procedures for adults age ≥45 years (84). Since the prev­ alence of OA increases with age, the costs are rapidly rising with the growing elderly population (85). The impact of OA on the quality of life is high. OA of the knee is one of the five leading causes of disability among individuals living independently (86). Eighty percent of individuals with OA report some amount of movement limita­ tion, and nearly 40% of individuals with knee OA report their health to be “poor” or “fair” (76,87). Although research is ongoing, a few risk factors associated with OA have been established. Risk factors for OA that are not modifiable include increased age (88), sex (with women having a higher risk) (89), race/ethnicity (with African Americans having higher risk and Asians having a lower risk in hip joints) (90,91,92), and genetic predisposition (93). Modifiable risk factors include excess body weight, joint Bone and Joint Complications in Diabetes 32–15 injuries, occupations that have excess mechanical stress on joints, heavy lifting or manual labor (e.g., agriculture), struc­ tural malalignment, and muscle weakness (94,95). Other risk factors that are not as strongly associated with increased risk of lower extremity OA include estrogen deficiency, high bone mass, low vitamin C, E, and D intake, and inflammation as measured by C-reactive protein (96,97). Hand OA, especially erosive hand OA, has a strong association with genetics and is more common in women (98,99,100). TYPE 1 DIABETES AND JOINT COMPLICATIONS A number of studies have reported genetic/autoimmune associations with OA. Type 1 diabetes also has genetic/auto­ immune associations, suggesting potential overlap in these conditions. Genetic associations include a variant allele at the IL2-IL21 gene locus that is associated with rheumatoid arthritis, type 1 diabetes, and systemic lupus erythematosus (101). A gene called PTPN22 is highly correlated with the incidence of type 1 diabetes, as well as rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idio­ pathic arthritis, and other autoimmune diseases (87,102). While genetic associ­ ations between rheumatoid arthritis and type 1 diabetes have been reported, the exact mechanism by which these allele variants increase the risk of these auto­ immune diseases is not yet known. TYPE 2 DIABETES AND JOINT COMPLICATIONS Prevalence of Osteoarthritis In epidemiologic studies, the prevalence of OA is defined by radiographs and/or by joint pain. Radiographic knee OA requires a radiograph that has evidence of joint space narrowing, or osteophyte formation at the
