Chapter 32: Bone and Joint Complications in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, fracture, risk, age, fractures, women, bone, glucose, hip, study, type, years, health, type diabetes, adults


States to assess risk factors for osteoporosis and hip OA. Hip radio­ graphs were obtained in approximately 5,000 men, of whom 11.7% had diabetes. Hip OA was more prevalent in diabetic subjects age 65–74 years (10.8%) than in men without diabetes (6.9%) (Table 32.18) (N. Lane, unpublished data). As with women, prevalence of hip OA did not differ by diabetes status in men age ≥75 years. The research community is investigating the risk factors for both OA and diabetes. OA is a disease in which the articular cartilage degenerates, either from age or injury, and the surrounding bone reacts with new bone formation at the margins of the joints (osteophytes), thickening of the bone adjacent to the joints, and changes in the trabecular bone distal to the joint. In diabetic patients, the Bone and Joint Complications in Diabetes 32–17 increased prevalence of disease, espe­ cially in the hand and knee, may result from a low-grade inflammatory state that may increase the degradation of the cartilage or the accumulation of AGEs within the articular cartilage, which in turn reduces the ability of the cartilage to function to dissipate loads. Ultimately, the articular cartilage fails. Also, a high BMI, often observed in individuals with diabetes, is a strong risk factor for OA of the lower extremities. Lastly, in diabetic patients with neuropathy, altered loads across the joints from reduced proprio­ ception may injure menisci and accelerate deterioration. Prevalence of Rheumatoid Arthritis New analyses of NHANES 1999–2010 data for Diabetes in America showed that the prevalence of self-reported rheuma­ toid arthritis was 50% higher in all diabetic subjects compared to those with normal glucose levels (12.7% vs. 8.4%, p<0.05); this relationship was found for all age groups (Table 32.19). Prevalence was higher in diabetic compared to nondia­ betic women and non-Hispanic whites but did not differ by diabetes status in men or in non-Hispanic blacks or Hispanics. However, the prevalence of rheumatoid arthritis in the NHANES is higher than other estimates (87,102). Inflammatory OA is frequently misclassified as rheuma­ toid arthritis, particularly in self-reported results, and such misclassification may have inflated the estimate of rheumatoid arthritis prevalence, although this is likely to have affected those with and without diabetes. Full evaluation of differences by diabetes status will require studies with accurate ascertainment of rheumatoid arthritis status. Published data confirm a genetic/autoimmune predisposition of rheumatoid arthritis and type 1 diabetes; this association is under
