Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


our free web-book, www.endotext.org . INTRODUCTION The thyroid contains two hormones, L-thyroxine (tetraiodothyronine, T 4 ) and L-triiodothyronine (T 3 ) (Figure 2-1, below). Iodine is an indispensable component of the thyroid hormones, comprising 65% of T 4 's weight, and 58% of T 3 's. The thyroid hormones are the only iodine-containing compounds with established physiologic significance in vertebrates. Fig. 2-1 Structural formula of thyroid hormones and precursor compounds The term "iodine" occasionally causes confusion because it may refer to the iodine atom itself but also to molecular iodine (I 2 ). In this chapter "iodine" refers to the element in general, and "molecular iodine" refers to I 2 . "Iodide" refers specifically to the ion I - . Ingested iodine is absorbed through the small intestine and transported in the plasma to the thyroid, where it is concentrated, oxidized, and then incorporated into thyroglobulin (Tg) to form MIT and DIT and later T 4 and T 3 (Figure 2-2). After a variable period of storage in thyroid follicles, Tg is subjected to proteolysis and the released hormones are secreted into the circulation, where specific binding proteins carry them to target tissues. This chapter discusses these broad steps as: (a) iodine availability and absorption; (b) uptake of iodide by the thyroid; (c) oxidation of iodide, which involves the thyroperoxidase (TPO), H 2 O 2 , and H 2 O 2 generation; (d) Tg, whose iodination leads to hormone formation; (e) storage of thyroid hormones in a Tg-bound form; (f) Tg breakdown and hormone release; (g) control of synthesis and secretion by iodine supply and TSH; and (h) effects of drugs and other external agents on the process. Fig. 2-2: The iodide cycle. Ingested iodide is trapped in the thyroid, oxidized, and bound to tyrosine to form iodotyrosines in thyroglobulin (TG); coupling of iodotyrosyl residues forms T 4 and T 3 . Hormone secreted by the gland is transported in serum. Some T 4 is deiodinated to T 3 . The hormone exerts its metabolic effect on the cell and is ultimately deiodinated; the iodide is reused or excreted in the kidney. A second cycle goes on inside the thyroid gland, with deiodination of iodotyrosines generating iodide, some of which is reused without leaving the thyroid. The production of thyroid hormones is based on the organization of thyroid epithelial cells in functional units, the thyroid follicles. A single layer of
