Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


is reused without leaving the thyroid. The production of thyroid hormones is based on the organization of thyroid epithelial cells in functional units, the thyroid follicles. A single layer of polarized cells (Fig. 2-4A) forms the enveloppe of a spherical structure with an internal compartment, the follicle lumen. Thyroid hormone synthesis is dependent on the cell polarity that conditions the targeting of specific membrane protein, either on the external side of the follicle (facing the blood capillaries) or on the internal side (at the cell-lumen boundary) and on the tightness of the follicle lumen that allows the gathering of substrates and the storage of products of the reactions.Thyroid hormone secretion relies on the existence of stores of pre-synthetized hormones in the follicle lumen and cell polarity-dependent transport and handling processes leading to the delivery of hormones into the blood stream. IODINE AVAILABILITY AND TRANSPORT The daily iodine intake of adult humans varies from less than 10 µg in areas of extreme deficiency to several hundred milligrams for some persons receiving medicinal iodine. Milk, meat, vitamin preparations, medicines, radiocontrast material, and skin antiseptics are important sources ( Table 2-1 ) (1;2). In the United States, the average intake in 1960 was about 100-150 µg/day, then rose to 200-500 µg/day in the following decade. It is currently about 150 µg/day (3). The use of iodate as a bread conditioner in the baking industry greatly increased average iodine consumption; this additive has been replaced more recently by other conditioners that do not contain iodine. Iodophors as sterilizing agents in the milk industry also added much iodine to the food chain, but this source may also be diminishing. In the USA and elsewhere, most consumers are unaware of the amount of iodine they ingest. Commerce and manufacturing technology rather than health dictate the presence of iodine in most products. The amounts of iodine are usually unrevealed, and changes in them unannounced. In the USA, where iodized salt use is optional, about 70% of the population consumes table salt containing approximately 76 ppm iodine (76 mg I/kg salt). Most prepared food in the USA and Europe uses uniodized salt (Switzerland and Macedonia are exceptions) and only about 15% of the daily salt intake is added at the table, so iodized salt in these areas makes only a modest contribution to daily iodine intake (4). The National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys (NHANES) showed that the
