Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


at the table, so iodized salt in these areas makes only a modest contribution to daily iodine intake (4). The National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys (NHANES) showed that the median national urinary iodine excretion in the USA in samples collected between 1988 and 1994 was 145 µg/L, a marked decrease from the 321 µg/L in a similar survey two decades before (5;6). Estimates from the NHANES (2001) are about 160 µg/L. The Total Diet Study of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration reported a parallel decrease in iodine consumption between 1970 and 1990 (7) . These fluctuations in iodine intake result from changes in societal and commercial practices that are largely unrecognized and unregulated. Canada mandates that all salt for human consumption contain KI at 100 ppm (76 ppm as iodine). Calculations of the representative Canadian diet in 1986 estimated slightly over 1 mg iodine/person/day, of which iodized salt contributed over half (8). Urinary iodine excretion in a group of men in Ottawa in 1990 was less than 50% of that in the Canadian national survey of 1975 (9), suggesting a decrease in dietary intake there as well as in the USA. Some countries have areas with very high iodine intake (10), from dietary custom (e.g., seaweeds in Japan) or from iodine-rich soil and water (e.g., a few places in China). But many countries have had some degree of iodine deficiency (11) in at least part of their territory. This has been corrected by the widespread programs of iodine prophylaxis promoted by ICCIDD (12). Too much iodine increases the incidence of iodine-induced hyperthyroidism, autoimmune thyroid disease and perhaps thyroid cancer. Too little causes goiter, hypothyroidism and their consequences i.e.features of the so-called iodine deficiency disorders (5). The global push to eliminate iodine deficiency in the current decades has put both excess and deficiency of iodine in the spotlight. Some countries have already moved rapidly from severe iodine deficiency to iodine excess, while others are only now recognizing iodine deficiency as a problem (5;12). Their experience, as well as that in the USA and Canada, emphasizes the need for continued monitoring to assess trends in iodine intake. Medicinal sources can provide iodine in amounts much larger than those consumed in an average diet ( Table 2-1 ). For example, 200 mg of amiodarone contains 75 mg of iodine. Radiographic contrast materials typically contain grams of iodine in covalent linkage, and
