Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


an average diet ( Table 2-1 ). For example, 200 mg of amiodarone contains 75 mg of iodine. Radiographic contrast materials typically contain grams of iodine in covalent linkage, and significant amounts (milligrams) may be liberated in the body. Skin disinfectants (e.g., povidone iodine) and iodine-based water purification systems can greatly augment iodine intake. At the other end, some individuals with little consumption of dairy products and of iodized salt have low iodine intakes. Table 2-1 Some common sources of iodine in adults USA (1,2) View in own window Dietary iodine Daily intake (µg) Dairy products 52 Grains 78 Meat 31 Mixed dishes 26 Vegetables 20 Desserts 20 Eggs 10 Iodized salt 380 Other iodine sources (µg) Vitamin/mineral prep (per tablet) 150 Amiodarone (per tablet) 75,000 Povidone iodine (per mL) 10,000 Ipodate (per capsule) 308,000 Most dietary iodine is reduced to iodide before absorption throughout the gut, principally in the small intestine. Absorption is virtually complete. Iodinated amino acids, including T 4 and T 3 , are transported intact across the intestinal wall. Short-chain iodopeptides may also be absorbed without cleavage of peptide bonds (13). Iodinated dyes used in radiography are absorbed intact, but some deiodination occurs later. Except in the postabsorptive state, the concentration of iodide in the plasma is usually less than 10 µg/L. Absorbed iodide has a volume of distribution numerically equal to about 38% of body weight (in kilograms) (14), mostly extracellular, but small amounts are found in red cells and bones. The thyroid and kidneys remove most iodide from the plasma. The renal clearance of iodide is 30-50 mL plasma/min (14-16) and appears largely independent of the load of iodide or other anions. In certain species, such as the rat, large chloride loads can depress iodide clearance. In humans, renal iodide clearance depends principally on glomerular filtration, without evidence of tubular secretion or of active transport with a transfer maximum (17). Reabsorption is partial, passive, and depressed by an extreme osmotic diuresis. Hypothyroidism may decrease and hyperthyroidism may increase renal iodide clearance, but the changes are not marked (14;18). On iodine diets of about 150 µg/day, the thyroid clears iodide from 10-25 mL of serum (average, 17 mL) per minute (14). The total effective clearance rate in humans is thus 45-60 mL/min, corresponding to a decrease in plasma iodide of about 12%/hr. Thyroidal iodide clearance may reach over 100 mL/min in iodine deficiency, or as
