Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


rate in humans is thus 45-60 mL/min, corresponding to a decrease in plasma iodide of about 12%/hr. Thyroidal iodide clearance may reach over 100 mL/min in iodine deficiency, or as low as 3 or 4 mL/min after chronic iodine ingestion of 500-600 µg/day. The salivary glands and the stomach also clear iodide and small but detectable amounts appear in sweat and in expired air. Breast milk contains large amounts of iodide, mainly during the first 24 hours after ingestion (19). Its content is directly proportional to dietary iodine. For example, in one part of the USA with community adult iodine intake of about 300 µg daily per person, breast milk contained about 18 µg iodine/dL, while in an area of Germany consuming 15 µg iodine per capita daily, the breast milk iodine concentration was only 1.2 µg/dL (20). Milk is the source of virtually all the newborn's iodine, so milk substitutes need to provide adequate amounts. UPTAKE OF IODINE BY THE THYROID Thyroid cells extract and concentrate iodide from plasma (21;22). As shown in Fig. 2-3 , shortly after administration, radioiodide is taken up from the blood and accumulates within thyroid follicular cells. About 20% of the iodide perfusing the thyroid is removed at each passage through the gland (23). The normal thyroid maintains a concentration of free iodide 20 to 50 times higher than that of plasma, depending on the amount of available iodine and the activity of the gland (24). This concentration gradient may be more than 100:1 in the hyperactive thyroid of patients with Graves' disease. The thyroid can also concentrate other ions, including bromide, astatide, pertechnetate, rhenate, and chlorate, but not fluoride (25;26). Fig. 2-3 Radioautographs of rat thyroid sections. Animals received iodide shortly before sacrifice, and radioautographs of thyroid sections were coated with emulsion after being stained by the usual methods. The radioautographs indicated the presence of iodide primarily over the cells at these early time intervals. (From Pitt-Rivers, R.J., S.F. Niven, and M.R. Young, in Biochemistry, 90:205, 1964, with permission of the author and publisher.) The protein responsible for iodide transport, the so-called sodium/iodide symporter or NIS, is located at the basolateral plasma membrane of thyrocytes (Fig. 2-4.). NIS-mediated I - accumulation is a Na + -dependent active transport process that couples the energy released by the inward translocation of Na + down to its electrochemical gradient to the simultaneous inward translocation of I
