Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


Na + -dependent active transport process that couples the energy released by the inward translocation of Na + down to its electrochemical gradient to the simultaneous inward translocation of I - against its electrochemical gradient. The maintenance of the Na + gradient acting as the driving force is insured by Na + -K + -ATPase. NIS belongs to the sodium/glucose cotransport family as the SLC5A5 member. Iodide transport is energy-dependent and requires O 2 . Ouabain, digitoxin, and other cardiac glycosides block transport in vitro (27;28). Iodide uptake by thyroid cells is dependent on membrane ATPase. During gland hyperplasia, iodide transport usually varies concordantly with plasma membrane Na + -K + -activated, ouabain-sensitive ATPase activity (29). NIS cDNA was first cloned in rat FRTL-5 cells by Dai et al. (30). The rat NIS gene gives rise to a 3kb transcript with an open reading frame of 1,854 nucleotides encoding a polypeptide chain of 618 amino acids. The mature protein is a glycoprotein with an apparent molecular mass of 85kDa (31;32).It has 13 membrane spanning domains, with the carboxy terminus in the cytoplasm and the amino terminus located outside the cells (33). In the model of Levy et al. (34), a Na + ion first binds to the transporter which, in the presence of iodide, forms a complex that then transfers iodide and two Na + ions to the cell interior. The human NIS gene located on chromosome 19 (35) codes for a protein of 643 amino acids that is 84% homologous with rat NIS (36). The mouse NIS polypeptide chain (37) has the same size (618 amino acids) as the rat NIS. At variance with other species, three different transcripts are generated from the porcine NIS gene by alternative splicing (38); the main form encodes a polypeptide of 643 amino acids as human NIS. Functional studies clearly show that NIS is responsible for most of the events previously described for iodide concentration by the thyroid. TSH stimulates NIS expression (39;40) and iodide transport (31;32). TSH exerts its regulatory action at the level of transcription through a thyroid-specific far-upstream enhancer denominated NUE (NIS Upstream Enhancer) that contains binding sites for the transcription factor Pax8 and a cAMP response element-like sequence. This original demonstration made on the rat NIS gene (41) has now been extended to human (42) and mouse (43) NIS genes. It has been suggested that TSH could also regulate
