Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


original demonstration made on the rat NIS gene (41) has now been extended to human (42) and mouse (43) NIS genes. It has been suggested that TSH could also regulate NIS expression at post-transcriptional level (44). Data from TSH receptor-null mice (44-46) clearly show that TSH is required for expression of NIS. Moderate doses of iodide in the TSH-stimulated dog thyroid inhibit expression of the mRNAs for NIS and TPO, while not affecting that for Tg and TSH receptor (40) . The decrease in thyroid iodide transport resulting from excess iodide administration (escape from the Wolff-Chaikoff effect, see further) is related to a decrease in NIS expression (40;47). Both NIS mRNA and NIS protein are suppressed by TGFb, which also inhibits iodide uptake (48;49). Reviews focus on NIS and its functional importance (50;51). Several mutations in the NIS gene causing defective iodide transport have been reported in humans (52-59). The most commonly found mutation corresponds to a single base alteration T354P in the ninth putative transmembrane domain of NIS (55). Site directed mutagenesis of rat NIS cDNA to substitute for threonine at residue 354 and transfection into COS cells lead to loss of iodide transport activity (60). Other mutations lead to truncated NIS (58) or to alterations of membrane targeting of the NIS protein (59) . NIS expression is increased in Grave’s disease and hyperactive nodules (61-63) and decreased in adenomas and carcinomas (64;65) appearing as cold nodules at scintigraphy.In hypofuctioning benign or malignant tumors, the impairment of iodide transport would result from both transcriptional and post-transcriptional alterations of NIS expression (66).Other tissues that concentrate iodide also show NIS expression, including salivary glands (67) and mammary glands (68;69). Iodide supply of follicular lumen involves a two-step transport process: the active transport across the basolateral plasma membrane of thyrocytes by NIS and a passive transport across the apical plasma membrane. The protein(s) insuring the second step is (are) not yet identified. A potential iodide transporter has been proposed: pendrin (70;71). Pendrin, encoded by the PDS gene (72) and composed of 780 amino acids, is expressed in different organs including kidney, inner ear and thyroid. In the thyroid, pendrin is a 110kDA membrane glycoprotein (73), selectively located at the apical plasma membrane (74). Its activity as transporter of anions including iodide has been demonstrated in different experimental systems (71;75-77). Pendrin belongs to the SLC family under the reference SLC26A4. However, the implication
