Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


(74). Its activity as transporter of anions including iodide has been demonstrated in different experimental systems (71;75-77). Pendrin belongs to the SLC family under the reference SLC26A4. However, the implication of pendrin in thyroid iodide transport remains uncertain for several reasons. First, there is still no direct demonstration of a pendrin-mediated efflux of iodide from thyrocytes to the follicular lumen. Second, the genetic alterations of the PDS gene found in patients with the Pendred syndrome, which lead to a loss of the anion transport activity of pendrin and to a constant and severe hearing loss, only have a moderate impact on the thyroid functioning, generally a euthyroid goiter (78). Third, PDS knock-out mice (79) do not show any thyroid dysfunction. In summary, contrary to NIS for which the anion selectivity (25) corresponds to what was expected, the ion selectivity of thyroid pendrin remains to be elucidated. In the thyroid as in the kidney, pendrin could act primarily as a chloride/bicarbonate anion exchanger. Rather than pendrin, anoctamin-1/TEM 16A, a calcium-activated chloride channel, seems to be responsible for most of the iodide efflux accross the apical membrane of the thyrocytes (80). Fig. 2-4: NIS-mediated transport of iodide. A, immunolocalization of the human NIS protein at the basolateral plasma membrane of thyrocytes in their typical follicle organization. B, schematic representation of the membrane topology of the NIS polypeptide chain deduced from secondary structure prediction analyses (33). C, transport of iodide from the extracellular fluid (or plasma) to the thyroid follicle lumen. The uptake of iodide at the basolateral plasma membrane of thyrocytes must be active; it operates against an electrical gradient (0 - 50 mV) and a concentration gradient, [ I- ]c being higher than extracellular [ I- ]. The transport of iodide from the cytoplasm to the follicle lumen should be a passive process, the electrical and concentration gradients being favorable. Iodide that enters the thyroid remains in the free state only briefly before it is further metabolized and bound to tyrosyl residues in Tg. A significant proportion of intrathyroidal iodide is free for about 10-20 minutes after administration of a radioactive tracer (81), but in the steady state, iodide contributes less than 1% of the thyroid total iodine. A major fraction of the intrathyroidal free iodide pool comes from deiodination of MIT and DIT; this iodide is either recycled within the thyroid or leaked into the circulation. Some data suggest that
