Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


circulating free iodide and much more iodine bound to proteins and lipids than did animals given iodide (85). In another comparison of I 2 versus iodide, administration of iodide to iodine-deficient rats eliminated thyroid hyperplasia much more efficiently than did I 2 . Additionally, I 2 decreased lobular hyperplasia and periductal fibrosis in the mammary glands, while iodide increased the former and had no effect on the latter (86). THYROPEROXIDASE (TPO) After concentrating iodide, the thyroid rapidly oxidizes it and binds it to tyrosyl residues in Tg, followed by coupling of iodotyrosines to form T 4 and T 3 . The process requires the presence of iodide, a peroxidase (TPO), a supply of H 2 O 2 , and an iodine acceptor protein (Tg). Thyroperoxidase oxidizes iodide in the presence of H 2 O 2 . In crude thyroid homogenates, enzyme activity is associated to cell membranes. It can be solubilized using detergents such as deoxycholate or digitonin. The enzyme activity is dependent on the association with a heme, the ferriprotoporphyrin IX or a closely related porphyrin (87;88). Chemical removal of the prosthetic group inactivates the enzyme, and recombination with the heme protein restores activity (89). The apoprotein from human thyroid is not always fully saturated with its prosthetic group (90). Some congenitally goitrous children have poor peroxidase function because the apoprotein has weak binding for the heme group (90). Antibodies directed against the thyroid "microsomal antigen," which are present in the serum of patients with autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD), led to identification of TPO. These antibodies were found to react with proteins of 101-107 kDa and to immunoprecipitate thyroid peroxidase (TPO), thus identifying microsomal antigen as TPO (91-95). A monoclonal antibody to purified microsomal antigen or antibodies directed againt thyroperoxidase were then used to clone human TPO (96-98). Different laboratories then cloned TPO from various species: pig (99), rat (100), and mouse (101). Kimura et al. (96) cloned two different cDNAs of humanTPO.TPO1 coded for a protein of 933 residues and TPO2 was identical to TPO1 except that it lacked exon 10 and was composed of 876 residues. Both forms occur in normal and abnormal human thyroid tissue. The C-terminal portion of the proteins exhibits a hydrophobic segment (residues 847-871), likely corresponding to a transmembrane domain; thus, TPO has a short intracellular domain and most of the polypeptide chain is extracellular (Fig. 2-5A). TPO1 is active, but TPO2 appears
