Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


847-871), likely corresponding to a transmembrane domain; thus, TPO has a short intracellular domain and most of the polypeptide chain is extracellular (Fig. 2-5A). TPO1 is active, but TPO2 appears enzymatically inactive because it does not bind heme, degrades rapidly, and fails to reach the cell surface in transfected cell lines (102). Different degradative pathways exist for the two forms (103). Several other TPO variants resulting from exon skipping have been identified; they appear either active or inactive (104). Pig TPO contains 926 amino acids (99) ; mannose-rich oligosaccharide units occupy four of its five glycosylation sites (105). Human TPO, which has 46% nucleotide and 44% amino acid sequence homology with human myeloperoxidase, clearly belongs to the same protein family. The TPO gene resides on chromosome 2p13, spans over 150 kbp, and has 17 exons (106). As NIS, Tg, and the TSH receptor (TSHr), TPO expression is controlled by the TSH cAMP pathway (107) through thyroid-specific transcription factors. These include TTF-1/NKx2.1, TTF-2/FOXE1, and Pax-8 (108;109). Tg and TPO genes have the same binding sites for TTF-1/NKx2.1, TTF-2/FOXE1, and Pax-8 in their promoters, and the genes for both have TTF-1/NKx2.1 sites in enhancer regions. Inactivating mutations in the TPO gene are responsible for a subtype of congenital hypothyroidism characterized by thyroid dyshormonogenesis due to iodide organification defect. More than 60 annotated mutations have been reported; most of them result in total iodide organification defect with severe and permanent hypothyroidism (110;111). TPO synthesized on polysomes is inserted in the membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum and undergoes core glycosylation. TPO is then transported to the Golgi where it is subjected to terminal glycosylation and packaged into transport vesicles along with Tg (112) (Fig. 2-6). These vesicles fuse with the apical plasma membrane in a process stimulated by TSH. TPO delivered at the apical pole of thyrocytes exposes its catalytic site with the attached heme in the thyroid follicular lumen (113). TPO activity is restricted to the apical membrane, but most of the thyroid TPO is intracellular, being located in the perinuclear part of the endoplasmic reticulum (114;115). Most of this intracellular protein is incompletely or improperly folded; it contains only high mannose-type carbohydrate units, while the membrane TPO has complex carbohydrate units. Glycosylation is essential for enzymatic activity (115). Chronic TSH stimulation increases the amount of TPO and its targetting at the apical membrane (116). Fig. 2-5 Schematic representation of the membrane topology
