Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


is essential for enzymatic activity (115). Chronic TSH stimulation increases the amount of TPO and its targetting at the apical membrane (116). Fig. 2-5 Schematic representation of the membrane topology of Thyroperoxidase, TPO (A) and NADPH thyroid oxidase, ThOX (Duox) (B) at the apical plasma membrane of thyrocytes. C, hypothetical reaction scheme for TPO. H2O2 is presumed to oxidize the free enzyme with a loss of two electrons leading to the formation of complex I. Iodide binds to complex I, is oxidized and form complex II, which then reacts with a tyrosyl residue of Tg, Tyr-Tg.The newly-formed I0 and Tyr0-Tg free radicals interact to form MIT-Tg and the enzyme returns to its free state. I2 may be generated from two cxidized iodine atoms H 2 O 2 GENERATING SYSTEM By definition, a peroxidase requires H 2 O 2 for its oxidative function. A large body of older work (reviewed in (117)) investigated possible sources using various in vitro models (117-120). It was already suggested in 1971 that H 2 O 2 would be produced at the apical plasma membrane of the thyrocyte by an enzyme that requires calcium and NADPH originating from the stimulation of the pentose phosphate pathway (121). Further biochemical studies showed that the enzymatic complex producing H 2 O 2 for TPO is a membrane-bound NADPH-dependent flavoprotein (122-126). H 2 O 2 produced by this NADPH-dependent protein is the limiting step of protein iodination and therefore of thyroid hormone synthesis when iodide supply is sufficient (127-129). In human thyroid, the H 2 O 2 production and iodination process are stimulated by the calcium-phosphatidylinositol pathway (129). The quantity of H 2 O 2 produced is important especially in stimulated thyrocytes; it is comparable to the ROS production of activated leukocytes. While the activated leukocyte lives a few hours, the life of an adult thyrocyte is 7 yr (130;131). Thus thyroid cells may be exposed to high doses of H 2 O 2 and have to adapt to it by developing highly regulated generator and efficient protective systems. More than twenty years passed between the initial biochemical studies and the cloning of Duox as the catalytic enzymatic core of the H 2 O 2 thyroid generating system. By two independent molecular strategies Duox enzymes were uncovered from the thyroid. Starting from a purified fraction of pig thyroid membrane bound NADPH flavoprotein, the team of C. Dupuy isolated p138 Tox
