Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


Duox1 and DuoxA2 facing Duox2 (Fig. 2-6A.). DuoxA2 ORF spans 6 exons and encodes a 320 amino acid protein predicted to compose five transmembrane segments, a large external loop presenting N-glycosylation sites between the second and third transmembrane helices and a C-terminal cytoplamic region (Fig. 2-6B). DuoxA1 gene was initially annotated “homolog of Drosophila Numb-interacting protein: NIP” (160). Four alternatively spliced DuoxA1 variants have been identified (161). One of the most expressed transcript, DuoxA1α, is the closest homolog of DuoxA2 and encodes a 343 amino acid protein (58% identity of sequence with DuoxA2) adopting the same predicted structure. In heterologous systems DuoxA proteins in the absence of Duox are mainly retained in the endoplasmic reticulum. When co-transfected with Duox they cotransported with Duox to the plasma membrane where they probably form complexes. Only the Duox1/DuoxA1 and Duox2/DuoxA2 pairs produce the highest levels of H 2 O 2 as they undergo the glycosylation steps through the Golgi. Duox2/DuoxA1 pair does not produce H 2 O 2 but rather superoxide anions and Duox1/DuoxA2 is unable to produce any ROS. In addition it has been shown that the type of Duox-dependent ROS poduction is dictated by defined sequences in DuoxA (162). This means that the Duox activators promote Duox maturation but also are parts of the H 2 O 2 generating complex (163;164). Mice deficient in DuoxA maturation factors present a maturation defect of Duox, lacking the N-glycan processing, and a loss of H 2 O 2 production. These mice develop severe goitrous congenital hypothyroidism with undetectable serum T4 and high serum TSH levels (165). The reconstitution of this functional H 2 O 2 producing system has been useful to measure and compare the intrinsic enzymatic activities of Duox1 and Duox2 in relationship with their expression at the plasma membrane under stimulation of the major signalling pathways active in the thyroid. It has been shown that the basal activity of both isoenzymes is totally depending on calcium and functional EF-hands calcium binding motifs. However, the two oxidase enzymatic activities are differently regulated after activation of the two main signalling cascades in the thyroid. Duox1 but not Duox2 activity is stimulated by the cAMP dependent cascade triggered by forskolin (EC50=0.1µM) via protein kinase A-mediated phosphorylation on serine 955 of Duox1. In contrast, phorbol esters, at low concentrations, induce Duox2 phosphorylation via protein kinase C activation associated with high H 2 O 2 generation (EC50=
