Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


phosphorylation on serine 955 of Duox1. In contrast, phorbol esters, at low concentrations, induce Duox2 phosphorylation via protein kinase C activation associated with high H 2 O 2 generation (EC50= 0.8nM) (166). These results suggest that both Duox proteins could be involved in thyroid hormone synthesis by feeding H 2 O 2 to TPO to oxidize iodide and couple iodotyrosines. From in vitro and in vivo data it has been concluded that Duox-DuoxA constitutes the major if not the unique component of the hormonogenic thyroid H 2 O 2 generating system. The bidirectional promoter allows the coexpression of Duox and DuoxA in the same tissue but the mechanisms regulating their transcription are not well and definitely characterized (167;168). It has been recently shown that Th2 cytokines, IL4 and IL13, up-regulate Duox2 and DuoxA2 genes in human thyrocytes through an activation of Jak-Stat pathway opening new perspectives for a better understanding of the eventual role of Duox in autoimmune diseases (169). Defects in Duox and/or DuoxA were rapidly recognized possible causes of congenital hypothyroidism (CH) due to thyroid dyshormonogenesis in patients born with a hyperplastic thyroid or developing a goiter postnatally when T4 treatment is delayed after birth. The first screening of mutations in Duox genes in 2002 was performed on 9 patients who had idiopathic congenital hypothyroidism with positive ClO4 - discharge (>10%), one with permanent and 8 with transient hypothyroidism (170). They were identified in the Netherlands by neonatal screening and followed up to determine the evolution of CH with the time. One of the patients with total organification defect (TIOD) presented a permanent hypothyroidism and the 8 others presented a transient hypothyroidism with a partial organification defect (PIOD). Of these last 8 patients 3 harboured heterozygous nonsense or frameshift mutations (Q686X, R701X, S965fsX994) meaning that a single defective Duox2 allele can cause haploinsufficency resulting in mild transient CH. It is noteworthy that this hypothyroid status was limited to the neonatal period, when thyroid hormone requirement is the highest, and was not detectable in adulthood since adult heterozygotes in these families presented normal TSH serum levels. The only case with severe permanent CH was homozygous for a nonsense mutation (R434X= protein devoid of the catalytic core) leading to the conclusion at this time of a complete inability to synthesize thyroid hormone in absence of Duox2. No mutation was detected in Duox1. With the increasing number of reported Duox2 mutations
