Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


conclusion at this time of a complete inability to synthesize thyroid hormone in absence of Duox2. No mutation was detected in Duox1. With the increasing number of reported Duox2 mutations in CH, it becomes more and more difficult to make the correlation between genotype and phenotype as initially described. Indeed, subsequent studies have shown a link between biallelic Duox2 defects and PIOD. Patients with compound heterozygous missense (R376W) and a nonsense mutation (R842X), leading to a presumed non functional protein showed PIOD with mild and persistent hyperthyrotropinemia. This suggests that Duox1 can compensate at least partially for the defect in Duox2 (171). Varela et al .. described also two cases of permanent CH with compound heterozygous missense and nonsense or splicing mutations (Q36H and S965fsX994; G418fsX482 and g.IVS19-2A>C conducting to inactive proteins) responsible for congenital goiter with a PIOD (172). The phenotype-genotype correlation suggested by the work of Moreno et al . is no longer clear. Maruo et al . described a series of transient CH characterized by biallelic defects in Duox2: in one family, four siblings were compound heterozygous for early frameshift mutations (L479SfsX2 and K628RfsX10) resulting in a presumed complete loss of Duox2 activity (not tested at this time). Three of them had low free T4 at birth, mild thyroid enlargement. The thyroid hormone replacement therapy ceased to be necessary by 9yr of age (173). A French-Canadian patient with a transient CH initially detected by neonatal screening presented a compound heterozygozity for a hemizygous missense mutation (G1518S) inherited from the father and a deletion removing the part of the gene coding for the catalytic core of Duox2 inherited from the mother. In vitro test proved that the missense mutant protein was totally inactive (174). This case and others reported later provide further evidence that permanent or transient nature of CH is not directly related to the number of inactivated Duox2 alleles (175-177). The first homozygous nonsense mutation in DuoxA2 (Y246X) that resulted in a non-functional protein tested in vitro has been found to be responsible of a permanent mild CH in a Chinese patient with a dyshormonogenic goiter (164;178). The mild phenotype can be explained by a partial maintenance of H 2 O 2 production by Duox2/DuoxA1 as demonstrated in vitro . A high level of functional redundancy in Duox/DuoxA system could also explained the mild transient hypothyroidism in a patient with a novel biallelic DuoxA2 mutation and
