Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


demonstrated in vitro . A high level of functional redundancy in Duox/DuoxA system could also explained the mild transient hypothyroidism in a patient with a novel biallelic DuoxA2 mutation and one allele of Duox2 and DuoxA1(179). The variety of observerd phenotypes associated with Duox2 and now DuoxA2 mutations suggest that the manifestation of Duox2 defects could likely be influenced by the environmental factors like iodine intake or by the activation of Duox1 or DuoxA1 in peculiar circumstances. Fig 2-6: A, Localization of Duox and DuoxA genes on chromosomes 15q15.3. B, Schematic representation of the predicted structure of DuoxA (from (156). C, Immmunolocalization of human Duox and TPO at the apical membrane of the thyrocyte (upper: Duox immunostaining, middle:preimmune serum, lower:TPO immunostaining) (130). THYROGLOBULIN (Tg) Thyroglobulin is the most abundant protein in the thyroid gland; its concentration within the follicular lumen can reach 200-300 g/L. Its main function is to provide the polypeptide backbone for synthesis and storage of thyroid hormones (180). It also offers a convenient depot for iodine storage and retrieval when external iodine availability is scarce or uneven. Neosynthesised Tg polypeptide chains entering the lumen of the rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) are subjected to core glycosylation, dimerise and are transferred to the Golgi where they undergo terminal glycosylation ( Fig. 2-7 ). Iodination and hormone formation of Tg occur at the apical plasma membrane-lumen boundary and the mature hormone-containing molecules are stored in the follicular lumen, where they make up the bulk of the thyroid follicle colloid content. Fig. 2-7 A polarized thyroid epithelial cell synthesizing soluble proteins, Tg (▲) and lysosomal enzymes (X) and membrane proteins, NIS (┴) and TPO (°). The polypeptide chain(s) generated by RER membrane-bound polysomes, enter the lumen of RER for the former and remain inserted into the RER membrane for the latter. Inside the lumen of RER, newly-synthesized proteins undergo core glycosylation and by interacting with chaperones acquire their conformation. Proteins are then transported to the Golgi apparatus (G), where terminal glycosylation and other post-translational reactions take place. In the Trans-Golgi network (TGN), mature proteins undergo sorting processes and are packed into transport vesicles. The vesicles carrying soluble proteins (inside the vesicle) and membrane proteins (as integral vesicle membrane protein) deliver them at the appropriate plasma membrane domain: the apical domain (1) and (2) or the basolateral domain (4). Vesicles carrying lysosomal enzymes (3) conveyed their content to prelysosomes or late endosomes
