Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


at the appropriate plasma membrane domain: the apical domain (1) and (2) or the basolateral domain (4). Vesicles carrying lysosomal enzymes (3) conveyed their content to prelysosomes or late endosomes (LE) and lysosomes (L). Apical plasma membrane proteins may reach their final destination by an alternative route involving a transient transfer to and then a retrieval and transport (*) from the basolateral membrane domain to the apical domain. The Tg peptide chain derives from a gene of more than 200 kbp located on chromosome 8 in humans. The human Tg gene consisting of 48 exons (181) gives rise to a 8.5kb transcript that translates a 2,749 residue peptide (in addition to a 19-residue signal peptide) (182;183). The primary structure deduced from cDNA is also known for bovine, rat, and mouse (184-186). The biochemical traits of human Tg have been reviewed in (187). The N-terminal part of Tg has regions of highly conserved internal homology (10 motives of about 60 amino acids) which appears in several other proteins and are referred to as ‘thyroglobulin type-1 domains’. Such domains have been found to be potent inhibitors of cysteine proteases (188). This finding might be of importance, because these proteases are active in Tg proteolysis (see below). It has been suggested that this region of the Tg molecule may modulate its own degradation and hormone release (189). In the Tg-type 1 repeats, cysteine and proline residues are found in constant position; they may have an important role in the tridimensional structure of the protein. The proximal region of the C-terminal half portion of Tg contains five repeats of another type of cysteine-rich motives. The presence of a high number of cysteine residues in Tg, involved for most of them in disulfide bonds, probably gives rise to peculiar structural constraints. The C-terminal portion of Tg is homologous with acetylcholinesterases (190). Because binding to cell membranes is one feature of acetylcholinesterases, perhaps Tg C-terminus has a similar role. It was reported that the acetylcholinesterase-homology region of Tg could function as a dimerization domain (178;191-193).Furthermore, three highly conserved thioredoxin boxes have been identified in mammalian Tg between residues 1,440 and 1,474; these boxes might be involved in disulfide bond formation leading to intermolecular cross-linking of Tg molecules inside the follicle lumen (194) . Tg gene expression is controlled by the same main thyroid-specific transcription factors that regulate synthesis of TPO (108):TTF-1/NKx2.1, TTF-2/FOXE1, and Pax-8 that bind
