Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


molecules inside the follicle lumen (194) . Tg gene expression is controlled by the same main thyroid-specific transcription factors that regulate synthesis of TPO (108):TTF-1/NKx2.1, TTF-2/FOXE1, and Pax-8 that bind at the same sites in Tg as they do in TPO. Hydrogen peroxide might be a regulatory factor of Tg expression, based on experimental work showing increased Tg promoter activity with reduced Pax-8 and TTF-1 (195-198). If substantiated, this proposal offers another point of integration between H 2 O 2 generation and transcription of NIS, Tg and TPO genes, all of which being regulated by TSH. Maturation of the Tg polypeptide chain begins while still on the RER. It undergoes core glycosylation and then monomers fold into stable dimers. Arvan and co-workers (199-204) have mapped this process and emphasize the role of molecular chaperones. The latter are essential for folding the new Tg molecules, and those that are folded improperly are not allowed to proceed further. The principal molecular chaperones are BiP, GRP 94, ERP 72, and calnexin. Only Tg molecules that pass this quality control system unscathed can proceed towards the secretory pathway. Glycosylation is a key event in Tg maturation. Carbohydrates comprise about 10% of Tg weight (205). Human Tg may contain four different types of carbohydrate units. The "polymannose" units consist only of mannose and N-acetylglucosamine. The "complex unit" has a core of three mannose residues with several chains of N-acetylglucosamine, galactose, and fucose or sialic acid extending from them. Both these types of unit are common in glycoproteins and are linked to peptide through an asparagine-N-acetylglucosamine bond. About three quarters of the potential N-glycosylation sites in human Tg are occupied, mostly with the complex unit (206). Two additional units have been found in human Tg; one contains galactosamine and is linked to the hydroxyl group of serine, the other is a chondroitin sulfate unit containing galactosamine and glucuronic acid (207) . Failure in Tg folding can lead to disease as in the cog/cog mouse; these animals have a large thyroid with a distended ER and sparse Tg storage in follicles (208). Their Tg shows abnormal folding and decreased export from the ER in association with increased levels of several molecular chaperones. In the Tg cDNA of cog/cog mouse, Kim et al .(185) identified a single base substitution that changes leucine to proline at position 2,263. Correction of this defect by site-directed mutagenesis returned Tg export to
