Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


cog/cog mouse, Kim et al .(185) identified a single base substitution that changes leucine to proline at position 2,263. Correction of this defect by site-directed mutagenesis returned Tg export to normal in transfected cells. The cog/cog mouse is an example of endoplasmic reticulum storage disease (209). Other examples are cystic fibrosis, osteogenesis imperfecta, familial neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus, insulin receptor defect, growth hormone receptor defect, and a variety of lipid disorders (210). In each situation, the underlying defect appears to be a mutation in the coding sequence of exportable proteins. The ER retains the abnormal proteins, which cannot then proceed for further maturation. Several reports describe a similar pathogenesis for cases of congenital goiter and hypothyroidism in humans, although these are not as well characterized. Ohyama et al. (211) investigated a five-year-old euthyroid goitrous boy with high thyroidal radioiodine uptake, a positive perchlorate discharge test, apparently normal H 2 O 2 generation and peroxidase activity in gland tissue, and low amounts of Tg in thyroid tissue overall, but large amounts in the RER. In another report, two hypothyroid goitrous sibs had a 138 bp segment missing between positions 5,590-5,727 in hTg mRNA, translating into a Tg polypeptide chain that lacked 46 residues (212). A third example described four subjects with congenital hypothyroid goiter from two unrelated families (213). Their thyroid tissue showed accumulation of Tg intracellularly with distension of the ER and large increases in activity of specific molecular chaperones, but with failure of Tg to reach the Golgi or the follicular lumen; this case was put forward as an ER storage disease similar to the cog/cog mouse (213). Tg also contains sulphur and phosphorus. The former is present in the chondroitin sulfate and the complex carbohydrate units, although its form and role are not known (214). Several studies have reported phosphate in Tg, up to 12 mol. per mol Tg. Of this, about half is in the complex carbohydrate units, the remainder is present as phosphoserine and phosphotyrosine (215-217). This may relate to protein kinase A activity (218). THYROGLOBULIN IODINATION AND HORMONE SYNTHESIS The step preliminary to thyroid hormone formation is the attachment of iodine to tyrosyl residues in Tg to produce MIT and DIT. This process occurs at the apical plasma membrane-follicle lumen boundary and involves H 2 O 2 , iodide, TPO, and glycosylated Tg. All rendezvous at the apical membrane to achieve Tg iodination ( Fig. 2-8
