Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


apical plasma membrane-follicle lumen boundary and involves H 2 O 2 , iodide, TPO, and glycosylated Tg. All rendezvous at the apical membrane to achieve Tg iodination ( Fig. 2-8 ). Fig. 2-8 Iodination of Tg at the apical plasma membrane-follicle lumen boundary.The scheme does not account for the relative size of the intervening molecules First, iodide must be oxidized to an iodinating form. An extensive literature has sought to identify the iodinating species, but the issue is still not resolved (see (219) for a detailed review). One scheme proposes that oxidation produces free radicals of iodine and tyrosine, while both are bound to TPO to form MIT which then separates from the enzyme (Fig.2-5C). Further reaction between free radicals of iodine and MIT gives DIT. Experimental studies by Taurog (219) and others suggest that the TPO reduction occurs directly in a two electron reaction. A second proposal, based on studies of rapid spectral absorption changes (88;220;221), is that TPO-I + is the iodination intermediate and that the preferred route is oxidation of TPO by H 2 O 2 followed by two electron oxidation of I - to I + , which then reacts within a tyrosine. As a third possibility, Taurog (219) proposed a reaction between oxidized TPO and I - to produce hypoiodite (OI - ), which also involves a two electron reaction. Whatever the precise nature of the iodinating species, it is clear that iodide is oxidized by H 2 O 2 and TPO, and transferred to the tyrosyl groups of Tg. All tyrosine residues of Tg are not equally accessible to iodination. The molecule has about 132 tyrosyl residues among its two identical chains; at most, only about 1/3 of the tyrosyls are iodinated. As isolated from the thyroid, Tg rarely contains more than 1% iodine or about 52 iodine atoms. The final step in hormone synthesis is the coupling of two neighbouring iodotyrosyl residues to form iodothyronine ( Fig. 2-9 ). Two DIT form T4; one DIT and one MIT form T3. Coupling takes place while both acceptor and donor iodotyrosyl are in peptide linkage within the Tg molecule.The reaction is catalyzed by TPO, requires H 2 O 2 (222-225) and is stringently dependent on Tg structure (226).The generation of the iodothyronine residue involves the formation of an ether bond between the iodophenol part of a donor tyrosyl and the hydroxyl group of the acceptor
