Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


that quantitative order. These data identified the most important hormonogenic sites in hTg, and also the favored sites for early iodination. The same work recognized three consensus sequences associated with iodination and hormone formation: i) Asp/Glu-Tyr at three of the four most important sites for hormone synthesis, ii) Ser/Thr-Tyr-Ser associated with hormone formation, including the C-terminal hormonogenic site that favors T3 in some species and iii)Glu-X-Tyr favoring early iodination, although usually not with hormone formation ( Fig. 2-11 ). Fig. 2-11 Diagram of the human Tg polypeptide chain; residue numbers refer to the human cDNA sequence; (a) sites forming T4 (sites A,B,D) (solid circles) and/or T3 (site C) (solid square); (b) early iodinated sites (solid triangles); (c) other iodinated sites (open triangles). Identifying the donor tyrosyls has attracted considerable investigational interest over the past several decades. The fact that some tyrosyls are iodinated early but do not go on to provide the acceptor ring of T4 makes them potential donor candidates (234). On the basis of in vitro iodination of an N-terminal cyanogen bromide Tg peptide, Marriq et al. (235) concluded that residue 130 was a donor tyrosine for the major hormonogenic site at Tyr5. This conclusion was challenged by Xiao et al. (236) in a similar in vitro system. A baculovirus system expressing the 1-198 fragment of Tg, either normal or mutated on tyrosyl residues, showed that iodination of a fragment containing tyrosyls only at residue 5, 107 and 130 formed T4 as did the intact normal peptide, but this fragment could also form T4 with substitutions at residue 5 or 130 (237). Dunn et al .(238) who incorporated 14C-Tyr into beef thyroid slices followed by in vitro iodination and trypsin digestion of the N-terminal portion of Tg localized pyruvate (as a derivative of dehydroalanine) to residue 130 by mass spectrometry. They proposed that Tyr130 was the donor tyrosine for the most important hormonogenic site at Tyr5. Gentile et al. (239) used mass spectrometry to identify a peptide containing dehydroalanine at tyrosine 1375 of bTg and proposed this tyrosine as the donor for the hormonogenic site at residue 1291. Donors for the other major hormonogenic sites have not yet been identified. In addition to its role as component of the iodoamino acids, iodine is associated with cleavage of peptide bonds of Tg, at least in vitro (180). This has been attributed to generation of free radicals during oxidation (240).
