Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


the iodoamino acids, iodine is associated with cleavage of peptide bonds of Tg, at least in vitro (180). This has been attributed to generation of free radicals during oxidation (240). Exposure of Tg to reducing agents yields an N-terminal peptide of about 20-26kDa, depending on the animal species, that contains the major hormonogenic site of Tg (241). This peptide appears in parallel with iodination or may slightly precede it (242). Further addition of iodine cleaves the 26kDa further, to produce an 18kDa (on human Tg), an event that also occurs with TSH stimulation (242). Thus, iodination-associated cleavage appears to be part of the maturation of the Tg molecule. These discrete N-terminal peptides have been found in all vertebrate Tg examined so far (231). The amount of iodine has important effects on thyroid hormone production (243). The initial reaction between TPO and H 2 O 2 produces the so-called "compound I," which oxidizes iodide and iodinates Tg. Next, the two reactants form compound II, which is necessary for the coupling reaction to make thyroid hormones. However, if excessive iodine is present, conversion to compound II does not take place, and hormone synthesis is impaired. ( Fig. 2-12 ) Other iodinated compounds occasionally inhibit the thyroid. Thyroalbumin excited considerable interest several decades ago. This is an iodinated albumin, shown to be serum albumin that is iodinated in the thyroid (244). Occasionally, large amounts are found in certain thyroid diseases, including Hashimoto's thyroiditis (245), congenital metabolic defects (246), thyrotoxicosis (247) and thyroid carcinoma (248). In all these cases, there are abnormalities in thyroid structure which might explain the access of serum albumin to intrathyroidal iodination sites. However, in physiological conditions, serum albumin can reach thyroid follicle lumina by transcytosis i.e. basolateral endocytosis and vesicular transport to the apical plasma membrane (249). The thyroid also iodinates lipids and many different iodolipids have been described after high doses of iodide in vitro (250;251). Of particular interest is 2-iodohexadecanal (252;253). It occurs in the thyroid of several species following administration of KI, and its amount increases linearly with additional iodine, in contrast to iodination of Tg which eventually is inhibited by excess iodide. This compound inhibits the action of NADPH oxidase, which is responsible for H 2 O 2 production (254;255). These findings suggested that iodination of lipids impairs H 2 O 2 production and, therefore, decreases further Tg iodination. This is the most probable mechanism
