Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


2 O 2 production (254;255). These findings suggested that iodination of lipids impairs H 2 O 2 production and, therefore, decreases further Tg iodination. This is the most probable mechanism for the Wolff-Chaikoff effect (128). Fig. 2-12 Demonstration of the Wolff-Chaikoff block induced by iodide in the rat. Animals were given increasing doses of stable iodide. There was at first an increase in total organification, but then, as the dose was increased further, a depression of organification of iodide and an increase in the free iodide present in the thyroid gland occurred. HORMONE STORAGE Tg molecules vectorially delivered to the follicule lumen by exocytosis accumulates to reach uncommun concentrations i.e. 0.3-0.5 mM.The mechanism operating such a “packaging” is unknown. Water and ion extraction from the follicle lumen might represent an active process leading toTg concentration. As the follicle lumen is a site of Ca ++ accumulation (256;257), the high degree of compaction of lumenal Tg might depend on electrostatic interactions between Ca ++ and anionic residues of Tg, which is an acidic protein. Stored Tg molecules undergo iodination and hormone formation reactions at the apical plasma membrane-lumen boundary (257-259), where TPO and H 2 O 2 generating system reside. The mature Tg molecules, now containing MIT, DIT, T4 and T3, remains extracellular in the lumen of thyroid follicles. Turnover of intrafollicular material or so-called colloid varies greatly with gland activity. For normal humans, the organic iodine pool (largely in intrafollicular material), turns over at a rate of about 1% per day (14). When the turnover increases, less Tg is stored, and with extreme hyperplasia, none is evident and the entire organic iodine content may be renewed daily (14). In this situation, secretion of Tg and resorption of Tg (see below) probably occur at similar rates and only tiny amounts of intrafollicular material are present at any time. Thyroglobulin as usually isolated from the thyroid is chiefly the 19S 660kDa dimer that has been glycosylated and iodinated. Iodination and hormone formation of Tg is more complex than generally thought because of the slow diffusion of molecules that are in a colloidal state in the follicle lumen. It has been reported that TSH alters the hydrodynamic properties of intrafollicular Tg molecules (260;261). The diffusion coefficient of Tg which is about 26mm 2 / sec in water would only be in the order of 10-100mm 2 / hour in the thyroid follicle lumen.
