Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


The diffusion coefficient of Tg which is about 26mm 2 / sec in water would only be in the order of 10-100mm 2 / hour in the thyroid follicle lumen. There is evidence for the presence of insoluble Tg in the form of globules of 20-120 microns, at a protein concentration of almost 600 mg/mL, in the lumen of thyroid follicles of different animal species (262). In human, about 34% of the gland Tg would be in this form (263). In pig, insoluble Tg contains more iodine than did the 660kDa Tg, and had virtually no thyroid hormone (264). Insoluble Tg has many internal crosslinks through disulfide bonds, dityrosine, and glutamyl-lysine bonds, the latter generated by transglutaminase (265). The formation of Tg multimers that probably results from oxidative processes might be limited by the presence of molecular chaperones such as the protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) and BiP in the follicle lumen (266). THYROGLOBULIN ENDOCYTOSIS To be useful, thyroid hormones must be released from Tg and delivered to the circulation for action at their distant target tissues. Depending on numerous factors including - the supply of iodide as substrate, the activity of enzymes catalyzing hormone formation, the concentration and physico-chemical state of Tg - the hormone content of lumenal Tg molecules varies to a rather large extent. Tg molecules newly arrived in the follicle lumen with no or a low hormone content would co-exist with “older” Tg exhibiting up to 6-8 hormone residues. The downstream processes responsible for the production of free thyroid hormones from these prohormonal molecules must therefore adequately manage the use of these lumenal heterogeneous Tg stores to provide appropriate amounts of hormones for peripheral utilization. One would expect to find i) control systems preventing excess hormone production that would result from the processing of excessive amounts of prohormonal Tg molecules and ii) checking systems avoiding the use of Tg molecules with no or a low hormone content. Fig. 2- 13 Visualization of Tg endocytosis by in vitro reconstituted thyroid follicles obtained from porcine thyrocytes in primary culture. Purified porcine Tg molecules labeled by covalent coupling of fluorescein were microinjected into the lumen of a follicle. A and B, phase contrast and fluorescence images taken at the time of microinjection. C and D, fluorescence images of the top (C) and the bottom (D) of the follicle after 2hr of incubation. Fluorescently-labeled Tg is present inside thyrocytes. The way
