Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


of microinjection. C and D, fluorescence images of the top (C) and the bottom (D) of the follicle after 2hr of incubation. Fluorescently-labeled Tg is present inside thyrocytes. The way the thyroid follicle proceeds to generate free hormones from stored hormone containing Tg molecules has been known for a long time. Tg molecules are first taken up by polarized thyrocytes (Fig. 2-13) and then conveyed to lysosomal compartments for proteolytic cleavage that release T4 and T3 from their peptide linkages. The first step represents the limiting point in the thyroid hormone secretory pathway. Over the last decade, there has been substantial improvement in the knowledge of the cellular and molecular mechanisms governing the internalization or endocytosis and intracellular transport of the prohormone, Tg. The evolution has first been to consider that it could proceed via a mechanism different from phagocytosis, also named macropinocytosis, evidenced in rats under acute TSH stimulation (reviewed in (267)). Results obtained in rats and dogs have been for a long time extrapolated to the different animal species including human. There is now a number of experimental data indicating that in the thyroid of different species under physiological circumstances, basal internalization of Tg, mainly if not exclusively, occurs via vesicle-mediated endocytosis or micropinocytosis (reviewed in (268)), while macropinocytosis results from acute stimulation ( Fig. 2-14 ) (269;270). Fig. 2-14 Schematic representation of the two modes of internalization of Tg; Micropinocytosis (on the right) and Macropinocytosis or phagocytosis (on the left). Intralumenal Tg stores potentially subjected to endocytosis are composed of (recently secreted) non-iodinated Tg, iodinated Tg (Tg-I) and iodinated Tg containing iodothyronine residues (Tg-Ith).Abbreviations are: CV, Coated Vesicle; EE, Early Endosome; LE, Late Endosome; L, Lysosome; Pp, Pseudopod; CD, Colloid Droplet; PL, Phagolysosome. The scheme on the right indicates the three possible routes of transport of internalized Tg molecules reaching the EE: transport to LE, recycling towards the follicle lumen and transcytosis i.e.transport towards the basolateral plasma membrane. The internalization process starts with the organization of microdomains at the apical plasma membrane of thyrocytes; these microdomains or pits, resulting from the recruitment and assembly of proteins (clathrin, adaptins…) on the cytoplasmic side of the membrane, invaginate to finally generate coated vesicles after membrane fission. Lumenal Tg molecules, either free or associated to membrane proteins acting as Tg receptors, enter the pits and are then sequestrated into the newly-formed vesicles (267-269). Tg internalization via vesicle-mediated endocytosis is regulated
