Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


either free or associated to membrane proteins acting as Tg receptors, enter the pits and are then sequestrated into the newly-formed vesicles (267-269). Tg internalization via vesicle-mediated endocytosis is regulated by TSH (268). The vesicles lose their coat and, through a complex fusion process, deliver their content into a first type of endocytic compartments, the early apical endosomes (270) (Fig 2-15). In these compartments, Tg molecules probably undergo sorting on the basis of recognition of different physico-chemical parameters either linked or independent such as the hormone content, exposed carbohydrates, conformation of peptide domains… A step of sorting appears as a prerequisite for subsequent differential cellular handling of Tg molecules. It has been shown that internalized Tg molecules can follow different intracellular pathways. Part of Tg molecules are conveyed via a vesicle transport system to the second type of endocytic compartments, late endosomes or prelysosomes. This route ending to lysosomes corresponds to the Tg degradation pathway for the generation of free thyroid hormones. It is reasonable to think that Tg molecules following this route are the more mature molecules (with a high hormone content) but, this has not been firmly demonstrated. The other Tg molecules with no or a low hormone content, present in early apical endosomes, enter either of the two following routes; they are recycled back into the follicle lumen through a direct vesicular transport towards the apical plasma membrane (271) or via a two-step vesicular transport to the Golgi apparatus and then to the apical plasma membrane (272). Alternately, Tg molecules are transported and released at the basolateral membrane domain of thyrocytes via transcytotic vesicles (262;273); a process accounting for the presence of Tg in plasma. The orientation of Tg molecules towards one or the other of these three routes requires the presence of receptors. However, one route could simply convey Tg molecules that are not selected for entering the other pathways. Receptors involved in Tg endocytosis may operate at the apical plasma membrane for Tg internalization and downstream in apical early endosomes for Tg sorting. The requirement and/or the involvement of apical cell surface receptors has long been debated. Most investigators now recognize that receptors are not needed for internalization since Tg is present at a high concentration at the site of vesicle formation. So, Tg molecules are most likely internalized by fluid-phase endocytosis and not by receptor-mediated endocytosis. On the contrary, if apical membrane Tg receptors
