Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


concentration at the site of vesicle formation. So, Tg molecules are most likely internalized by fluid-phase endocytosis and not by receptor-mediated endocytosis. On the contrary, if apical membrane Tg receptors exist, their function would be to prevent the internalization of sub-classes of Tg molecules (274;275). As it is not conceivable that internalized Tg molecules could enter the different intracellular routes, described above, at random, Tg receptors must exist in early apical endosomes. A detailed review on potential Tg receptors has been made by Marino and Mc Cluskey (276). The first candidate receptor, initially described by Consiglio et al .(277;278) was later identified as the asialoglycoprotein receptor composed of three subunits (RLH1,2 and 3). This receptor binds Tg at acidic pH and recognizes both sugar moities and peptide determinants on Tg (279). As low-iodinated Tg molecules are known to have a low sialic acid content, this receptor could be involved in sorting immature Tg molecules for recycling to the follicle lumen. A second receptor, still not identified, named N-acetylglucosamine receptor (280;281), presumably located in sub-apical compartments, interacts with Tg at acidic pH; it could also act as a receptor for recycling immature Tg molecules back to the follicle lumen. A third receptor; megalin, has more recently been discovered in the thyroid and has been the subject of extensive studies yielding convincing data (276;282-285). Megalin is an ubiquitous membrane protein belonging to the LDL receptor family. It is located in the apical region of thyrocytes and its expression is regulated by TSH. Megalin, that binds multiple unrelated ligands, interacts with Tg with a high affinity.In vitro and in vivo data indicate that Megalin is involved in the transcellular transport or transcytosis of Tg molecules, possibly with a low hormone content (286). From the properties and subcellular location of these receptors, one can propose an integrated view of the sorting processes that would operate in early apical endosomes. The asialoglycoprotein receptor and/or the less defined N-acetylglucosamine receptor would recognize immature Tg for recycling and megalin would interact with Tg subjected to apical to basolateral transcytosis. The remaining Tg molecules would enter, without sorting, the functionally important pathway i.e. the prelysosome-lysosome route. Under TSH stimulation, macropinocytosis would be triggered and would become operative in Tg internalization. Pseudopods representing extensions of the apical plasma membrane project into the follicle lumen and pinch off to form a resorption vacuole known as colloid droplet (287) .The colloid
