Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


Tg internalization. Pseudopods representing extensions of the apical plasma membrane project into the follicle lumen and pinch off to form a resorption vacuole known as colloid droplet (287) .The colloid droplets then deliver their content to lysosomes. Pseudopod formation is one of the earliest effects of TSH on the gland, evident within several minutes after administration (288;289). In most species but perhaps not in rat, TSH stimulates macropinocytosis through the activation of the cyclic AMP cascade (290;291). Fig. 2-15 Transmission electron microscope observations of apical endocytic structures in thyrocytes. Top: coated pits at the apical plasma membrane. Bottom: an early endosome located in the apical region. Bars, 200 nm. PROTEOLYTIC CLEAVAGE OF THYROGLOBULIN Internalized Tg molecules that are conveyed to lysosome compartments are subjected to diverse hydrolytic reactions leading to the generation of free thyroid hormones and to complete degradation of the protein. Given its composition, Tg is likely the substrate for the different lysosomal enzymes: proteases, glycohydrolases, phosphatases, sulfatases.... Efforts have been made to identify proteases involved in the release of hormonal residues from their peptide linkage in Tg. Endopeptidases such as cathepsin D, H and L (292-299) are capable of cleaving Tg. Initial cleavage would bring into play endopeptidases and resulting products would be further processed by exopeptidases. Dunn et al . (295) showed that cathepsin B has exopeptidase activity as well as an endopeptidase action (295;297). These investigators tested the activities of human enzyme preparations against the 20kDa N-terminal peptide from rabbit Tg, which contains the dominant T4 site at residue 5. Extended cathepsin B incubation produced the dipeptide T4-Gln, corresponding to residues 5 and 6 of Tg. The combination of cathepsin B with the exopeptidase dipeptidase I released T4 from this dipeptide, although lysosomal dipeptidase I alone was not effective. Thus, the combination of cathepsin B and lysosomal dipeptidase I was sufficient to release free thyroid hormone from its major site at residue 5. The exopeptidase lysosomal dipeptidase II may also be involved in release of free T4, but from a site in Tg other than residue 5 (297). Thus, Tg probably undergoes selective cleavage reactions at its N- and C- terminal ends to release iodothyronines that are located nearby (297;300). Starting from highly purified preparations of thyroid lysosomes, Rousset et al . (301-303) have identified intralysosomal Tg molecules with very limited structural alterations but devoid of hormone residue. One may think that proteolysis of Tg
