Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


of thyroid lysosomes, Rousset et al . (301-303) have identified intralysosomal Tg molecules with very limited structural alterations but devoid of hormone residue. One may think that proteolysis of Tg occurs in two sequential steps; i) early and selective cleavages to release T3 and T4 residues and ii) delayed and complete proteolysis. The reduction of the very high number of disulfide bonds might be the limiting reaction between the two steps. The nature and the origin of the reducing compounds acting on Tg are not known. Noteworthy, the possibility of proteolytic cleavage of Tg inside the follicle lumen, before internalization, has been proposed (304-307) but not yet confirmed by other groups. After Tg digestion, T4 and T3 must go from the lysosomal compartments to the cytoplasm and from the cytoplasm out of the cell to enter the circulation. It has been postulated for decades that thyroid hormones are released from thyrocytes by simple diffusion. There are many objections to this view (308). One of these comes from the chemical nature of iodothyronines; T4 and T3, which are generally considered as lipophylic compounds possess charges on both their proximal (amino acid side chain) and distal (phenolate) parts. As now known for the entry of thyroid hormones in peripheral target cells, the exit of thyroid hormones from thyrocytes probably involves membrane transporter(s). Details of hormone transport across the lysosomal membrane and then across the basolateral plasma membrane are unknown, including whether it is an active or passive process. At present, only a lysosomal membrane transporter for iodotyrosines has been reported (309;310). Nevertheless the role of newly cloned peripheral tissue thyroid transporters (311;312) in this process remains to be defined. The type I and type II iodothyronine 5'-deiodinase is present in the thyroid (63;313;314) and deiodinate about 10% of T4 to T3. The extent of this intrathyroidal deiodination is increased when the thyroid is stimulated by TSH (315;316). Estimates of average normal secretion for euthyroid humans are 94-110 µg T4 and 10-22 µg T3 daily (317). The thyroid may also convert some T4 to 3,3'5'-T3 (reverse T3) within the thyroid. About 70% of the Tg iodine content is in the form of DIT and MIT, so this represents an important part of the intrathyroid iodine pool. Rather than lose it to the circulation, the thyroid deiodinates MIT and DIT and returns most of iodide to the intrathyroidal iodide pool. The responsible enzyme i.e.
