Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


intrathyroid iodine pool. Rather than lose it to the circulation, the thyroid deiodinates MIT and DIT and returns most of iodide to the intrathyroidal iodide pool. The responsible enzyme i.e. the iodotyrosine deiodinase is an NADPH-dependent flavoprotein with a estimated molecular weight of about 42kDa (318) and recently identified as DEHAL1(319-322). About 3-5 times more iodide is formed inside the gland each day by this deiodinase than enters the cell from the serum (14). The importance of the internal recycling of iodide is demontrated by congenitally goitrous subjects who harbour mutations in DEHAL gene (322) and cannot deiodinate iodotyrosines. These patients are successfully treated with large amounts of iodide (323). Some iodine is lost from the gland through inefficiency of its recycling by the iodotyrosine deiodinase (14;87;317;324). This leak may increase as the thyroid adapts to a high daily iodine intake (325), possibly as an autoregulatory process to prevent excessive Tg iodination. Much more iodide can be lost from diseased glands. Ohtaki et al . (87) found that some iodide leaks from all glands, including normal ones, but that the amount increases markedly with gland iodine content, presumably reflecting a dependence on dietary iodine intake. Fisher et al . (317) reported that about 38 µg iodide was released when the mean T4 secretion was 53 µg/day. Among other products which are released or leak out from the thyroid, there is Tg (326;327). The secretion of Tg is clinically important. Its presence in serum can be detected by a routine assay and provides a sensitive (although not always specific) marker for increased thyroid activity. Attempts have been made to determine the biochemical characteristics of circulating Tg molecules in terms of iodine content (328), structural integrity (329) and hormone content (330). Serum levels are elevated in patients with hyperplastic thyroid or thyroid nodules including differentiated thyroid cancer. Tg measurement can identify congenital hyperplastic goiter, endemic goiter, and many benign multinodular goiters, but its greatest application is in the follow-up of differentiated thyroid cancer (331). Most papillary and follicular cancers retain some of the metabolic functions of the normal thyrocyte, including the ability to synthesize and secrete Tg. Subjects who have differentiated thyroid cancer treated by surgery and radioiodine should not have normal thyroid tissue left, and therefore, should not secrete Tg. If Tg is found in their serum, it reflects the continuing presence either of normal tissue, unlikely after its previous ablation,
