Chapter 2 Thyroid Hormone Synthesis And Secretion
KEYWORDS: thyroid, iodide, iodine, thyroglobulin, human, hormone, endocrinol, biol, membrane, protein, chem, biol chem, clin, cell, transport


thyroid tissue left, and therefore, should not secrete Tg. If Tg is found in their serum, it reflects the continuing presence either of normal tissue, unlikely after its previous ablation, or of thyroid cancer. The depolarized cancer cells presumably secrete Tg directly in intercellular space. Tracking serum Tg levels is probably the most sensitive and practical means for the follow-up of such patients. It is more sensitive when the subject is stimulated by TSH. Until recently, this could only be done by withdrawal of thyroid hormone and consequent symptomatic hypothyroidism, but now recombinant human TSH can be administered to enhance the sensitivity of the serum Tg and thyroid scan (332-337). CONTROL OF HORMONE SYNTHESIS The most important controlling factors are iodine availability and TSH. Inadequate amounts of iodine lead to inadequate thyroid hormone production, increased TSH secretion and thyroid stimulation, and goiter in an attempt to compensate. Excess iodide acutely inhibits thyroid hormone synthesis, the Wolff-Chaikoff effect (243), apparently by inhibiting H 2 O 2 generation, and therefore, blocking Tg iodination (127). A proposed mechanism is that the excess iodide leads to the formation of 2-iodohexadecanal (255), which is endowed with an inhibitory action on H 2 O 2 generation. TSH influences virtually every step in thyroid hormone synthesis and release. In humans the effects on secretion appear to be mediated through the cAMP cascade (see chapter 1) while the effects on synthesis are mediated by the Gq/phospholipase C cascade (338). Elsewhere in this chapter, we have mentioned instances of TSH regulation. To summarize, TSH stimulates the expression of NIS, TPO, Tg and the generation of H 2 O 2 , increases formation of T3 relative to T4, alters the priority of iodination and hormonogenesis among tyrosyls and promotes the rapid internalization of Tg by thyrocytes. These several steps are interrelated and have the net effects of increasing the amount of iodine available to the cells and of making and releasing a larger amount and a more effective type of thyroid hormone (T3). Anti-thyroid drugs are external compounds influencing thyroid hormone synthesis. The major inhibitory drugs are the thionamides: propylthiouracil and methimazole. In the thyroid, they appear to act by competing with tyrosyl residues of Tg for oxidized iodine, at least in the rat (219). Iodotyrosyl coupling is also inhibited by these drugs and appears more sensitive to their effects than does tyrosyl iodination. Reference List Pennington JA, Young BE.
