Case report
KEYWORDS: mcc, metabolic, developmental, case, early, girl, months, including, deficiency, treatment, carnitine, analysis, blood, acid, delay


Case report 3- methylcrotonyl-C oA carboxylase deficiency in a child with developmental regression and delay: call for early diagnosis and multidisciplinary approach Muhammad Moazzam Gulzar,1 Zulfiqar Ali Sarani,1 Muhammad Tariq,1,2 Ina Knerr 3,2 1Paediatrics, Midland Regional SUMMARY Laois, Ireland deficiency (3- MCC- D) is an autosomal recessive disorder with a variable phenotype. Reduced 3- University College Dublin MCC enzyme activity results in impaired leucine metabolism causing, for example, metabolic Dublin, Dublin, Ireland 3National Centre for Inherited acidosis, ketotic hypoglycaemia and carnitine to incidental findings in asymptomatic individuals. Correspondence to This report describes the case of a young girl who Professor Ina Knerr; underwent dramatic developmental regression at ina. knerr@ cuh. ie 11 months of age, following a respiratory tract infection. Metabolic investigations revealed high Accepted 15 June 2025 excretions of urinary 3- methylcrotonylglycine and 3- hydroxyisovaleric acid, consistent with 3- MCC- D. Treatment was commenced immediately, including carnitine, biotin and moderate dietetic modifications. Molecular genetic investigations confirmed compound heterozygosity for two pathogenic variants in the MCCC1 gene, Trp358Cysfs*13 and duplication of exons 2 and 3. Now in middle childhood, the girl is meeting all her developmental milestones and has had no metabolic decompensation in 6 years of follow- up. BACKGROUND Isolated 3-m ethylcrotonyl-C oA carboxy- lase (3- MCC) deficiency (3- MCC- D), or 3- methylcrotonylglycinuria, is a disorder of Figure 1 Schematics of the metabolic pathway and leucine metabolism caused by pathogenic vari- defect in 3- methylcrotonyl- CoA carboxylase (3- MCC) ants in the MCCC1 or MCCC2 genes. These deficiency. genes encode the alpha and beta subunits of methylcrotonyl- CoA carboxylase enzyme, respectively. 3- MCC is a mitochondrial enzyme individuals remain asymptomatic, and so this which belongs to the group of biotin- dependent number may be higher. carboxylases and catalyses the fourth cata- This report describes the case of a young girl bolic step in the leucine degradation pathway who underwent dramatic developmental regres- (figure 1). In the case of 3- MCC- D, interme- diary metabolites accumulate in blood and sion and delay at 11 months of age following an © BMJ Publishing Group urine, particularly 3- methylcrotonylglycine and upper respiratory tract infection with ear infec- Limited 2025. Re- use 3- hydroxyisovaleric acid, which are then detect- tion. Metabolic testing demonstrated signifi- permitted under CC BY- NC. No able on urine organic acid analysis. Affected cantly elevated urinary 3- methylcrotonylglycine commercial re- use. See rights and permissions. Published by individuals
