Case report
KEYWORDS: mcc, metabolic, developmental, case, early, girl, months, including, deficiency, treatment, carnitine, analysis, blood, acid, delay


demonstrated signifi- permitted under CC BY- NC. No able on urine organic acid analysis. Affected cantly elevated urinary 3- methylcrotonylglycine commercial re- use. See rights and permissions. Published by individuals are predisposed to ketotic hypogly- and 3- hydroxyisovaleric acid excretion on BMJ Group. caemia and metabolic acidosis or even ketoaci- organic acid analysis, consistent with 3- MCC- D, To cite: Gulzar MM, be milder than other inborn metabolic defects The girl recovered well following the commence- Sarani ZA, Tariq M, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2025;18:e262865. in this pathway.1 2 The estimated incidence of ment of treatment, including also multidis- doi:- 3- MCC- D ranges from 1:40 000 to 1:68 000 ciplinary management; she is now in middle 262865 depending on the population examined.3 Many childhood and developmentally appropriate. Gulzar MM, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2025;18:e262865. doi: 1 Case report CASE PRESENTATION Carnitine supplementation was commenced, initially at The patient was born at term to non- consanguineous Irish 100 mg/kg/day after which the patient’s free carnitine was parents. The perinatal course was unremarkable, and normalised to 21.2 µmol/L. C5-O H-c arnitine remained newborn bloodspot screening (NBS) performed as per grossly elevated, however, at 14.88 µmol/L. Since she went Irish guidelines did not reveal any diagnostic findings. She on targeted treatment, including carnitine supplementation, was a healthy infant and received vaccinations according her free carnitine in blood has remained normal or even unremarkable. carboxylases, including 3- MCC. The girl was referred to the National Centre for Inher- To confirm 3- MCC- D, genetic analysis was performed ited Metabolic Disorders in Dublin for metabolic input with using leukocyte- derived DNA. The girl was found to be a history of developmental regression and global develop- compound heterozygous for two different pathogenic vari- mental delay with poor weight gain. Of note, she had met ants, Trp358Cysfs*13 in the MCCC1 gene and also a dupli- all developmental milestones for the first 10 months of life, cation of exons 2 and 3 of the MCCC1 gene which were for example, crawling at 6 months, pulling to stand at 8 found to be segregating in this family. The mother is a carrier months of age and cruising by the age of 10 months. Speech for the pathogenic variant c.1074delG (Trp358Cysfs*13). and language development was initially appropriate with Her father is a carrier of a duplication of exons 2 and 3 of babbling noted at 6 months.
