Case report
KEYWORDS: mcc, metabolic, developmental, case, early, girl, months, including, deficiency, treatment, carnitine, analysis, blood, acid, delay


pathogenic variant c.1074delG (Trp358Cysfs*13). and language development was initially appropriate with Her father is a carrier of a duplication of exons 2 and 3 of babbling noted at 6 months. She had developed single words the MCCC1 gene. This was identified via multiplex ligation- with meaning at 10 months, for example, ‘mama’, ‘dada’ dependent probe amplification. MCCC2 gene analysis was and ‘yes’; however, she remained static for some time after unrevealing. that. She suffered from an intercurrent infection at around Brain MRI was deferred in light of the girl’s imme- 11 months of age with an ear infection and was noted to be diate response to targeted treatment and her good clin- pale and lethargic around that time during a febrile episode. ical progress. Appropriate local ethics/research approval Her interest in food subsequently declined, and in hind- and written informed consent were obtained prior to sight, the parents noted an avoidance of protein- rich foods, publication. such as dairy products or meat, with an interest in fruit and carbohydrates. On examination, the girl was pink and non- dysmorphic. DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS Anthropometric measurements were taken, with head ► Other inborn errors of intermediate metabolism, such as circumference and weight on the 50th centile and height other organic acidurias and amino acidopathies or disor- on the second centile for age. There were no neuro- ders of ketone body metabolism, including, for example, cutaneous stigmata. Neurological examination appeared – Biotinidase deficiency. unrevealing, including normal deep tendon reflexes and – Methylmalonic aciduria. normal funduscopy. There was no evident organomegaly or – Propionic aciduria. lymphadenopathy. – Maple syrup urine disease. An Ages & Stages Questionnaires was performed when the – Holocarboxylase synthetase deficiency. patient was well demonstrated scoring as follows: commu- – 3- hydroxy- 3- methylglutaryl- coenzyme- A lyase nication=30, gross motor=30, fine motor=60, problem deficiency. solving=55 and personal and social=50, thereby reflecting – β-ketothiolase deficiency. delayed gross motor milestones and mildly delayed speech ► Primary mitochondrial disorders (eg, Leigh syndrome). and language acquisition. Dietetic, physiotherapy, speech ► Neurodegenerative diseases, including, for example, and language therapy and audiology were consulted for – Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (Batten disease). further input, and she was referred to early intervention – Krabbe disease (globoid cell leukodystrophy). services. TREATMENT INVESTIGATIONS ► Correct hypoglycaemia and acidosis where present. Baseline biochemical investigations performed, including ► Re- establish anabolism. blood gas analysis, renal, liver and bone profiles, glucose, ► Carnitine PO or intravenous
