Case report
KEYWORDS: mcc, metabolic, developmental, case, early, girl, months, including, deficiency, treatment, carnitine, analysis, blood, acid, delay


► Correct hypoglycaemia and acidosis where present. Baseline biochemical investigations performed, including ► Re- establish anabolism. blood gas analysis, renal, liver and bone profiles, glucose, ► Carnitine PO or intravenous (metabolic conjunction), lactate, plasma ammonia and bedside ketone testing, were 100 mg/kg/day in 2–3 divided doses, adjusted as needed essentially normal. Plasma amino acids demonstrated in order to prevent deficiency. leucine of 225 µmol/L (range 59–223 µmol/L), and alloiso- ► Dietetic modification (adequate caloric supply, avoid leucine was not detected. However, on her urine organic protein excess, restrict prolonged fasting, carbohydrate acid profile, there was a marked increase in the excretion supplements if PO is reduced and in the setting of inter- of 3- hydroxyisovaleric acid and 3- methylcrotonylglycine, current illness). without an associated increase in lactate or propio- ► Multidisciplinary team input. nate metabolites. This pattern is overall consistent with ► Emergency treatment (particularly during illnesses with 3- MCC- D. A subsequent acylcarnitine profile on dried poor oral feeding; commence intravenous dextrose 10 blood spots demonstrated an extremely low free carnitine at (−12.5)% at 1–1.2 (1.5) times maintenance, add NaCl 2.3 µmol/L (reference range 15.5–46.7 µmol/L) with a high and KCl depending on plasma electrolyte levels, until C5-O H-c arnitine of 14.47 µmol/L (0.0–0.43 µmol/L); these PO intake is fully established). findings are almost pathognomonic of 3- MCC- D. ► Biochemical monitoring, routinely and as clinically indicated. 2 Gulzar MM, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2025;18:e262865. doi: Case report OUTCOME AND FOLLOW-UP achieving immediate response to treatment can lead to full The girl, now in middle childhood, continues to attend the recovery, as in the case presented here. National Centre for Inherited Metabolic Disorders, Dublin. She attends every 6 months and has achieved pleasing meta- bolic control. She remains under dietetic and pharmacolog- Learning points ical management, including carnitine and biotin. appropriate and in mainstream school. Her parents had standards for identifying developmental delay in a child. The dietetic input in relation to dietetic requirements in symp- use of a standardised developmental screener may be helpful excess and ‘sick day’ management with the addition of extra ► Paediatric patients presenting with global development delay, carbohydrates. They also had genetic input regarding the regardless of the underlying cause, should have prompt early diagnosis. The girl initially attended early intervention intervention with a multidisciplinary team. services but has since been discharged and follows up regu- ► Global developmental delay or developmental
