Case report
KEYWORDS: mcc, metabolic, developmental, case, early, girl, months, including, deficiency, treatment, carnitine, analysis, blood, acid, delay


prompt early diagnosis. The girl initially attended early intervention intervention with a multidisciplinary team. services but has since been discharged and follows up regu- ► Global developmental delay or developmental regression larly with her primary paediatrician and local GP. Since she following an intercurrent illness should raise the suspicion of was commenced on treatment, no further episodes of acute an underlying metabolic disorder, such as 3- methylcrotonyl- decompensation, regression or altered state of conscious- CoA carboxylase deficiency or other disorders of intermediary ness were noted, and she made a full recovery. We are metabolism. Baseline metabolic investigations should be pleased to observe that she is meeting all her developmental undertaken in parallel with other medical tests, as clinically milestones, is in mainstream school and has had no further indicated, in children with static development/regression or metabolic decompensation during 6 years of follow- up. global developmental delay. ► Baseline metabolic workup and point- of- care testing for children may include, for example, blood glucose, lactate, blood gas analysis, ketone testing, ammonia, full blood count, renal, liver, DISCUSSION bone profiles, uric acid, thyroid function test, creatine kinase, 3- MCC- D can present with a variety of symptoms, ranging blood acylcarnitines and plasma amino acids together with from mild to severe, or may indeed remain asymptomatic. urinary organic acids and glycosaminoglycans, with other tests as Biochemical features of 3- MCC- D are more pronounced clinically indicated. Further investigations along with molecular during catabolic states, such as acute illnesses and prolonged genetic testing or other confirmatory tests may be required to fasting. While 3- MCC- D may remain asymptomatic in a confirm the diagnosis. number of affected individuals, early recognition of symp- ► An early diagnosis, timely intervention and specific treatments tomatic patients with 3- MCC- D and commencement of are crucial in many inborn metabolic disorders to prevent treatment without any unnecessary delays is essential in neurological sequelae. order to prevent long- term sequelae in this subgroup of patients. A cohort of 53 patients with 3- MCC- D was iden- tified by Grünert et al, among whom five were initially Acknowledgements We would like to express our gratitude to the patient and in life.1 Due to the risk of acute metabolic decompensation laboratory professionals, involved in diagnostics and patient care. with neurological sequelae, early diagnosis is essential for Contributors MMG: data collection, manuscript writing and manuscript editing. clinically affected individuals.2 However, NBS by
