Molecular links between Obesity and Diabetes: “Diabesity”
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, obesity, fat, resistance, insulin resistance, adipose, tissue, adipose tissue, type, obese, type diabetes, glucose, mice, expression


However, only a relatively small fraction of obese individuals develops T2DM. 7 In fact, most obese, insulin-resistant individuals do not develop hyperglycemia, indicating that their pancreatic β -cells still produce and secrete sufficient amounts of insulin in order to compensate for the reduced efficiency of insulin action in the periphery. 1 , 8 , 9 Thus, in addition to an increased adipose mass, additional factors are likely to determine the risk for β -cell dysfunction and the susceptibility for β -cell destruction and diabetes. Nevertheless, despite recent advances in the understanding of body weight regulation and insulin action, the risk factors that determine which obese, non-diabetic individuals will eventually develop diabetes still remain unknown. ROLE OF FAT DISTRIBUTION Obesity results from a period of a positive energy balance during which adipocytes store excess triglycerides, resulting in cell hypertrophy and hyperplasia. However, fat depots do not expand uniformly as they accumulate lipids, and the adverse effects of excess fat storage have been frequently attributed to intra-abdominal (i.e. visceral) fat tissue. Using a variety of measures (oral glucose tolerance test, intravenous glucose tolerance test, euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamps), selective excess of visceral adipose tissue (visceral adiposity) has been linked to insulin resistance in humans. 10-19 Interestingly, no relationship between visceral fat and impaired glucose metabolism has been observed in studies with non-obese individuals. 20 , 21 On the other hand, other studies found that abdominal subcutaneous fat correlates with insulin sensitivity as well as visceral fat in euglycemic clamps, thus challenging a unique role for the visceral fat depot in modulating insulin sensitivity. 22 , 23 However, in another study, Klein and coworkers reported that large-volume abdominal liposuction of subcutaneous fat did not improve insulin sensitivity of liver, skeletal muscle, and adipose tissue (as assessed by euglycemic-hyperinsulinemic clamps), at least not within 12 weeks post surgery. 24 In accordance to these results, removal of visceral fat has been found to improve insulin sensitivity in humans, 25 , 26 supportive of a causal role of intra-abdominal fat for the insulin resistance in obese individuals. However, the relationship between the amount of visceral fat and insulin sensitivity has been controversially discussed throughout recent years and a number of clinical studies show that surgical removal of this fat depot (e.g. via omentectomy) did not lead to improved whole-body glycemia or even BMI of the patients. 27-30 Interestingly, a number of adipose-tissue related sub-phenotypes have been identified,
