Molecular links between Obesity and Diabetes: “Diabesity”
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, obesity, fat, resistance, insulin resistance, adipose, tissue, adipose tissue, type, obese, type diabetes, glucose, mice, expression


this fat depot (e.g. via omentectomy) did not lead to improved whole-body glycemia or even BMI of the patients. 27-30 Interestingly, a number of adipose-tissue related sub-phenotypes have been identified, one of these the so-called “TOFI” (“thin on the outside, fat on the inside”) subjects. These patients present a normal BMI (< 25 kg/m 2 ) but increased abdominal obesity and therefore exhibit an increased risk to develop insulin resistance and T2DM. 31 , 32 In contrast to TOFI, the so-called “fat-fit” subjects show no gross impairments of glucose metabolism despite their elevated body adiposity (BMI ≥ 30 kg/m 2 ). 32 , 33 Visceral fat is defined as adipose tissue located inside the peritoneal cavity—within the parietal peritoneum and transversalis fascia, excluding the spine and paraspinal muscles. As such, appropriate techniques for precise measurements of visceral fat, however, have been controversial. In humans, the amount of abdominal visceral fat is determined by a number of different techniques, including anthropomorphic measurements (waist-hip-ratio, waist circumference, abdominal sagittal diameter), computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and ultrasound. Comparative measurements using CT and MRI have revealed a fairly high correlation between both methods. 34-36 In the recent years, Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) has emerged as reliable technique to measure body composition with high-precision, low X-ray exposure, and short-scanning time. 37 , 38 In studies that included these imaging techniques and common clinical measurements, the abdominal sagittal diameter was found to be the most specific predictor of visceral adipose volume, but measurements of waist circumference and sagittal diameter are also highly correlated. Even though waist circumference varies considerably between sexes and among different ethnic groups, it has been proposed as a crude, but efficient, anthropomorphic readout for abdominal adiposity. 39 , 40 And lastly, the amount of visceral fat is correlated to total body fat even though considerable variation in individual fat distribution has been reported, 41-44 Thus, despite the lack of a ”gold standard” for the quantitative assessment of regional fat distribution in humans, most of the evidence suggests a specific association between visceral fat with an increased risk for insulin resistance and diabetes. TO BE (FAT) OR NOT TO BE Interestingly, deficiency of fat tissue (lipodystrophy) predisposes to similar metabolic complications as an excess of fat in obesity, such as insulin resistance, T2DM, and hepatic steatosis (reviewed in Refs 45 and 46 45 , 46 ). Moreover, fat transplantation into lipodystrophic
