Molecular links between Obesity and Diabetes: “Diabesity”
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, obesity, fat, resistance, insulin resistance, adipose, tissue, adipose tissue, type, obese, type diabetes, glucose, mice, expression


as an excess of fat in obesity, such as insulin resistance, T2DM, and hepatic steatosis (reviewed in Refs 45 and 46 45 , 46 ). Moreover, fat transplantation into lipodystrophic mice ameliorated the diabetic phenotype of the animals either partially or completely, implicating that the failure to properly store lipids in depots is causal for lipodystrophic diabetes. 47 Also in normal lean animals, fat transplantation has been shown to result in beneficial metabolic effects. 48 , 49 Thus, adipose tissue may have both beneficial and adverse effects on whole-body metabolism, depending on where it accumulates. OBESITY-INDUCED DIABETES: FACTORS AND MECHANISMS On a population level, the link between obesity and its secondary complications is well described. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying these complications are still poorly understood. 50 Even though the evidence indicates a detrimental role of visceral fat in terms of insulin sensitivity, relatively little is known about distinct physiological and biochemical properties of fat tissue derived from different anatomic locations. On the one hand, transplantation experiments with fat tissue from different adipose depots in mice have not conclusively revealed intrinsic differences between subcutaneous and visceral fat. 47 , 49 On the other hand, factors that have been attributed to confer differential metabolic effects of subcutaneous versus visceral fat include increased portal release of FFA and glycerol from omental/mesenteric fat directly to the liver, and also differences in endocrine and metabolic functions of fat depots. Three main hypotheses have been developed in recent years to bridge the gap between epidemiology and pathobiochemistry: (1) The “ inflammation hypothesis ” asserts that obesity represents a state of chronic inflammation where inflammatory molecules produced by infiltrating macrophages in adipose tissue exert pathological changes in insulin-sensitive tissues and β -cells. (2) The “ lipid overflow hypothesis ”, also known as “Adipose Tissue Expandability Hypothesis” predicts that obesity may result in increased ‘ectopic’ lipid stores (lipid that accumulates outside the normal depots, such as in the organ tissue of the liver, muscle, and pancreas) due to the limited capacity of adipose tissue to properly store fat in obese subjects. Potentially harmful lipid components and metabolites may exert cytotoxic effects on peripheral cells, including liver and β -cells, thereby impairing function, survival, and regeneration. (3) The “ adipokine hypothesis ” refers to the principal feature of white adipose cells to function as an endocrine organ, and to secrete a variety of hormones with auto- and paracrine
