Molecular links between Obesity and Diabetes: “Diabesity”
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, obesity, fat, resistance, insulin resistance, adipose, tissue, adipose tissue, type, obese, type diabetes, glucose, mice, expression


“ adipokine hypothesis ” refers to the principal feature of white adipose cells to function as an endocrine organ, and to secrete a variety of hormones with auto- and paracrine function. It has been proposed that expanding fat stores in obesity cause dysfunctional secretion of such endocrine factors, thereby resulting in metabolic impairment of insulin target tissues and eventually failure of insulin producing β -cells. In the following, these three hypotheses are briefly discussed. The “Inflammation Hypothesis” Inflammatory processes are thought to play a key role in the development of obesity-related insulin resistance and type 2-diabetes. In adiposity there are fundamental changes in adipose tissue secretory functions 51 . An excess of adipose tissue produces a number of pro-inflammatory cytokines leading to a state of chronic subclinical inflammation associated with both insulin resistance and type-2 diabetes. 52 The term “metaflammation” describes this low-grade, chronic inflammation orchestrated by metabolic cells in response to excess nutrients and energy. 53 How does a spill-over of these inflammatory products into circulation finally lead to insulin resistance? Weisberg et al 54 described that macrophages accumulate in adipose tissue of obese subjects and suggested that these macrophages are derived from the circulation. Further studies indicated that adipose tissue macrophages (ATMs) that accumulate during diet-induced obesity (DIO) are not only an important source of adipose tissue inflammation but also mediate insulin resistance in adipocytes. 55 The amount of macrophages in adipose tissue correlates positively with two indices of adiposity: Body mass index (BMI) and adipocyte size. The exact mechanisms underlying ATM recruitment and activation are still not fully understood. One factor potentially responsible for obesity-induced inflammation by increasing ATM recruitment is Macrophage Migration Inhibitory Factor (MIF), a chemokine-like inflammatory regulator directly associated with the degree of peripheral insulin resistance. 56 Adipose tissue macrophages are considered to be a major reservoir of pro-inflammatory molecules in adipose tissue 54 . These cytokines exert various functions in the pathogenesis of the disease progression (Figure 1). Some of the most important inflammatory factors are described below. Figure 1. The “inflammation hypothesis.” Pathophysiology of obesity-induced chronic inflammation and peripheral insulin resistance. DAG, diacylglycerol; IL-1, interleukine-1; MCP-1, monocyte chemotactic protein-1; TNF, tumor necrosis factor alpha; Toll-like receptor 4, TLR-4; Details in the text. Tumor Necrosis Factor Alpha: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF- α ) is a pluripotent cytokine primarily produced from macrophages. 57 Its expression was shown to be elevated in different mouse
