Molecular links between Obesity and Diabetes: “Diabesity”
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, obesity, fat, resistance, insulin resistance, adipose, tissue, adipose tissue, type, obese, type diabetes, glucose, mice, expression


Tumor Necrosis Factor Alpha: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF- α ) is a pluripotent cytokine primarily produced from macrophages. 57 Its expression was shown to be elevated in different mouse and rat models of obesity and diabetes. 58 In vitro , TNF- α suppresses the expression of most adipose-specific genes in murine adipocytes, including the enzymes involved in lipogenesis. 59 It was also shown that TNF- α induces insulin resistance, in part through its ability to inhibit intracellular signaling from the insulin receptor. 60 Moreover, addition of TNF-α to cells in vivo increased the intracellular concentration of ceramides. 61 Ceramides can directly induce DNA fragmentation and apoptosis. In skeletal muscle, diacylglycerols and ceramides operate as lipotoxic mediators engaging serine kinases that disrupt the insulin signaling cascade and diminish insulin sensitivity. 62 Further, it was discovered that ceramides are able to induce lipoapoptosis in β -cells. 63 In addition, TNF- α was shown to induce the formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). 64 Production of ROS increased selectively in adipose tissue of obese mice, causing dysregulated production of adipocytokines (fat-derived hormones), including adiponectin, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1, interleukin-6 (IL-6), and monocyte chemotactic protein-1. 65 However, clinical studies with Etanercept, a neutralizing protein for circulating TNF- α failed to demonstrate an improvement of insulin sensitivity in humans, 66 , 67 indicating that acute reduction of systemic TNF- α may not be sufficient to induce metabolic benefits in the periphery. TNF-Like Weak Inducer of Apoptosis: TNF-like weak inducer of apoptosis (TWEAK) belongs to the TNF superfamily and was shown to have pro-inflammatory action in adipocytes mediated by the nuclear factor-κB (NFκB) and ERK but not JNK signaling pathways. 68 The cytokine promotes the secretion of MCP-1 and RANTES and up-regulates CCl21 and CCL19 expression. Whereas expression levels of membrane-bound TWEAK (mTWEAK) and its receptor Fn14 are increased during obesity, the amount of soluble TWEAK (sTWEAK) was decreased, thereby enhancing the pro-inflammatory activity elicited by TNF-α. 69 , 70 Monocyte Chemotactic Protein-1: The pro-inflammatory chemokine monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) attracts leukocytes to inflamed sites and is regulated by NFκB. 71 Monocyte chemotactic protein-1 represents the first discovered and most extensively studied human CC chemokine and is also known as CCL2 (Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 2). CC chemokines are characterized by the conserved position of four cysteine residues responsible for protein stabilization. 56 Insulin was found to induce expression and secretion of MCP-1 substantially both in
