Molecular links between Obesity and Diabetes: “Diabesity”
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, obesity, fat, resistance, insulin resistance, adipose, tissue, adipose tissue, type, obese, type diabetes, glucose, mice, expression


CC chemokines are characterized by the conserved position of four cysteine residues responsible for protein stabilization. 56 Insulin was found to induce expression and secretion of MCP-1 substantially both in vitro in insulin-resistant adipocytes and in vivo in insulin-resistant obese mice ( ob/ob ). It was suggested that elevated MCP-1 levels may induce adipocyte dedifferentiation and contribute to pathologic states associated with hyperinsulinemia and obesity, including type 2 diabetes. 72 Expression and plasma concentration of MCP-1, however, were shown to be increased both in genetically obese diabetic ( db/db ) mice and in wildtype mice with high-fat diet-induced obesity, leading to the assumption that increased MCP-1 expression contributes to the macrophage infiltration of adipose tissue and, finally, to the development of insulin resistance. 73 Monocyte chemotactic protein-1 has been developed into one of the most important targets for a variety of therapeutic approaches to improve diabetic vascular conditions over the years. 74 Interleukin-6: The role of the cytokine interleukin-6 (IL-6) in the regulation of lipid metabolism is controversial. 75 If produced in large amounts by adipose tissue, IL-6 causes insulin resistance in adipocytes and skeletal muscle. 76 Contrary to the expectations, IL-6-deficient mice develop obesity. However, excess body weight was only reported in very mature animals. 77 Interestingly, chronic exposure of IL-6 produces insulin resistance in skeletal muscle, whereas short-term exposure as consequence of exercise has beneficial effects on insulin sensitivity. 78 Thus, despite the evidence of IL-6 as a major player in the regulation of metabolism, the role of this cytokine in the pathogenesis of insulin resistance and diabetes remains incompletely understood. Interleukin-1: Interleukin-1 (IL-1) is a cytokine that is also secreted by stimulated macrophages and has many actions that overlap those of TNF-α. For instance, IL-1 increases hepatic triglyceride secretion and serum triglyceride levels. 79 Common polymorphisms of the IL-1 gene that influence IL-1 activity are also associated with fat mass in humans. 80 Pro-inflammatory pathways in adipose tissue have been shown to be directly activated by free-fatty acids (FFA). In turn, the inflammatory status of macrophages is linked to body fat content. In lean mice, macrophages in WAT are in their active M2 state and produce immunosuppressive factors. However, in obese mice, macrophages are in a pro-inflammatory M1 state (F4/80+, CD11b+, CD11c+), highly responsive to the pro-inflammatory effect of FFA that bind the Toll-Like Receptors (TLRs). 81 Increased cytokine release via TLRs as a consequence of FFA
