Molecular links between Obesity and Diabetes: “Diabesity”
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, obesity, fat, resistance, insulin resistance, adipose, tissue, adipose tissue, type, obese, type diabetes, glucose, mice, expression


M1 state (F4/80+, CD11b+, CD11c+), highly responsive to the pro-inflammatory effect of FFA that bind the Toll-Like Receptors (TLRs). 81 Increased cytokine release via TLRs as a consequence of FFA binding was proposed as potential pathomechanism causing insulin resistance. 82 Interestingly, in a clinical study, blockade of IL-1 receptor with Anakinra , a recombinant IL-1 receptor antagonist, improved HbA 1c levels and proinsulin-to-insulin ratio but had no effect on systemic insulin sensitivity. 83 Toll-Like Receptor-4: Toll-like receptors are membrane-spanning, non-catalytic receptors that respond to different microbial antigens, therefore representing an important factor of the innate immunity. 84 Toll-like Receptor-4 (TLR-4) is thought to be another important factor in fatty acid-induced insulin resistance. Scherer and coworkers were the first ones that found it expressed on 3T3-L1 adipocytes and activated by lipopolysaccharides (LPS). 85 Characterization of TLR-4 as the main endogenous sensor for LPS in adipocytes supports the relevance of fat tissue in immune processes. 86 Additionally, TLR-4 was recently shown to be directly activated by dietary saturated fatty acids, thereby promoting inflammatory aspects of the metabolic syndrome and atherosclerosis. 87 In addition, stimulation of TLR-4 with activation of the Erk pathway was shown to upregulate IL-6 as well as MCP-1 release in adipose tissue. Therefore, it can be suggested that activation of TLR-4 in adipocytes induces inflammation and, as a consequence, promotes the progression towards diabetes. This mechanism provides new evidence for a coupling of visceral adipose dysfunction with the development insulin resistance and T2DM. 88 Summary: Inflammation is thought to be a major factor in the development of insulin resistance and diabetes. Increased secretion of adipocyte-derived inflammatory cytokines and fatty acids are directly linked to impaired insulin sensitivity in obesity. 89 However, inflammatory processes do not account exclusively for the development of insulin resistance since there are studies showing subjects with T2D but without any alterations in inflammatory markers. 90 Inflammation alone can therefore not explain how obesity affects insulin sensitivity and certainly not why only a small fraction of obese individuals develop T2DM. The “Lipid Overflow Hypothesis” Healthy adipose tissue is characterized by the ability to expand passively to accommodate periods of nutrient excess. In contrast, adipose tissue in polygenic mouse models of obesity-induced diabetes, as well as in obese humans, may fail to fully accommodate excessive nutrient loads. 91-93 If the adipose tissue expansion limit is reached, lipids can no longer be stored appropriately in adipose tissue and
