Molecular links between Obesity and Diabetes: “Diabesity”
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, obesity, fat, resistance, insulin resistance, adipose, tissue, adipose tissue, type, obese, type diabetes, glucose, mice, expression


obese humans, may fail to fully accommodate excessive nutrient loads. 91-93 If the adipose tissue expansion limit is reached, lipids can no longer be stored appropriately in adipose tissue and consequently “overflow” to other peripheral tissues such as skeletal muscle, liver, and pancreas. 94 , 95 Subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT) represents the largest adipose tissue depot and, in addition, is considered the least metabolically harmful site for lipid storage. The SAT can expand either by increasing the size of the cells (hypertrophic obesity) and/or by recruiting new cells (hyperplastic obesity). In contrast to the hyperplastic response, which seems to be protective against SAT dysfunction, hypertrophic obesity is associated with increased T2D risk. 96 , 97 The storage of this ectopic fat in non-SAT tissues is directly linked to the progression of insulin resistance and type-2-diabetes. 98 , 99 Thus, fat accumulates in tissues that are not adequate for lipid storage, and as a consequence, lipid metabolites might accumulate within those tissues that inhibit insulin signal transduction (Figure 2). Figure 2: The “lipid overflow hypothesis.” Pathophysiology of obesity-induced ectopic lipid stores that cause peripheral insulin resistance and impaired β-cell function. CPT-1, carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1; DAG, diacylglycerol; GLUT2, facilitated glucose transporter, member 2 ( SLC2A2 ); HAD, β-hydroxyacyl dehydrogenase; IRS1, insulin receptor substrate 1; MafA, pancreatic beta-cell-specific transcriptional activator MafA; PKC, Protein kinase C; Details in the text. This hypothesis is supported by several rodent models of lipodystrophy. These animals are extremely lean but often suffer from marked insulin resistance, diabetes, hypertriglyceridemia, hepatosteatosis, and low HDL (high-density lipoprotein)-cholesterol levels – a metabolic profile similar to that observed in obesity-related metabolic syndrome. 100 , 101 Moreover, recent studies demonstrate a lipodystrophy-like phenotype also in the general human population since subjects who are of normal weight but metabolically unhealthy (∼20% of the normal weight adult population) have a greater than 3-fold higher risk of all-cause mortality and/or cardiovascular events. 46 Leptin replacement in patients with generalized lipodystrophy can serve as efficient therapy to improve insulin sensitivity by reducing ectopic fat accumulation, especially in the liver. 102-104 Thus, an increased fatty acid flux from normal fat depots towards non-adipose tissues (NAT), e.g. skeletal muscle, heart, liver, and pancreatic β-cells appears to be a critical factor in mediating lipotoxicity. Among the substances known to impair insulin signaling, the most prominent examples include diacylglycerols (DAGs) and ceramides, which have both been shown to impair insulin action in
