Molecular links between Obesity and Diabetes: “Diabesity”
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, obesity, fat, resistance, insulin resistance, adipose, tissue, adipose tissue, type, obese, type diabetes, glucose, mice, expression


in mediating lipotoxicity. Among the substances known to impair insulin signaling, the most prominent examples include diacylglycerols (DAGs) and ceramides, which have both been shown to impair insulin action in a number of peripheral tissues. 105-107 Lipotoxicity- Skeletal Muscle and Adipocytes: Skeletal muscle insulin resistance is associated with high levels of stored lipids in skeletal muscle cells. 108 A high lipid accumulation and/or lower triglyceride turnover can induce lipotoxicity within the skeletal muscle cell. 109 Lipid infusion can induce peripheral and hepatic insulin resistance in rats and humans. 110 , 111 There are multiple regulatory sites controlling the complex process of fatty acid (FA) metabolism in skeletal muscle. Long-chain FA (LCFA) oxidation involves lipolysis and LCFA release from the adipose tissue, delivery of FFA to the skeletal muscle, transport across the plasma membrane, lipolysis of intramuscular triacylglycerol (IMTG), activation with addition of a coenzyme A thioester (LCFA-CoA), transport across the mitochondrial membranes and ultimately oxidation. 112 Obese individuals display a disturbed lipid oxidation in skeletal muscle. This leads to accumulation of fatty acids and therefore to enhanced levels of triglycerides, fatty acyl CoA, diacylglycerols, and ceramides. 113-115 Accumulation of these metabolites may be able to impair insulin signaling through different mechanisms, such as increased serine phosphorylation of the insulin receptor and insulin receptor substrate 1 by Protein kinase C (PKC) β and reduced serine phosphorylation of AKT. 116 , 117 Besides disturbances in the insulin signaling cascade, several other factors could be involved in the direction of LCFA or LCA-CoA towards esterification rather than oxidation in obesity and type-2 diabetes. It has long been debated whether reduced mitochondrial function is the cause of, or secondary to, insulin resistance and T2D. Numerous studies, however, have shown that the activity of the key enzymes of fatty acid oxidation, citrate synthase (CS) and β -hydroxyacyl dehydrogenase (HAD) are significantly reduced in skeletal muscle in obesity and type 2 diabetes. 118-121 Additionally, it has also been shown that the activity of carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1 (CPT1) in muscle was also reduced in association with obesity, 122 and that mitochondrial oxidative capacity is low in insulin-resistant subjects. 123 Carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1 converts acyl-CoA molecules to their acyl carnitine derivatives prior transport of the mitochondrial inner membrane. 124 Plasma non-esterified free fatty acids (NEFAs) are suggested to contribute to the development of insulin resistance, since they have been shown to activate the inflammatory nuclear factor kappa-B (NFκB)
