Molecular links between Obesity and Diabetes: “Diabesity”
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, obesity, fat, resistance, insulin resistance, adipose, tissue, adipose tissue, type, obese, type diabetes, glucose, mice, expression


124 Plasma non-esterified free fatty acids (NEFAs) are suggested to contribute to the development of insulin resistance, since they have been shown to activate the inflammatory nuclear factor kappa-B (NFκB) pathway in human muscle biopsies. 125 , 126 In humans, it was demonstrated that free fatty acids induce insulin resistance by inhibition of glucose transport. 127 In addition to the negative impact on insulin sensitivity, there is very recent evidence that lipid droplet (LD) formation is also impaired by an overflow of lipids. It has been shown that LD formation requires some of the same components of the machinery involved in regulated fusion of vesicles including the two soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive-factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) proteins SNAP23 and syntaxin-5. SNAP23 has been shown to be an essential factor for trafficking of GLUT4-containing vesicles to the plasma membrane, and a more recent study found that SNAP23 is also involved in LD formation in adipocytes. 128 Interestingly, the study reported that excessive LD formation inhibited GLUT4 translocation by competing for SNAP23 and that overexpression of Snap23 in these cells restored insulin sensitivity. Thus, SNAP23 might constitute a link between glucose and lipid metabolism, respectively. Lipotoxicity- Pancreatic Beta Cell: The development of type 2 diabetes is caused by a combination of insulin resistance and impaired pancreatic β -cell secretion. 129 With progression from euglycemia to type 2 diabetes, β -cells progressively fail to compensate for the increase insulin demand in peripheral tissues. The pathogenesis is thereby characterized by different stages, leading from compensatory insulin resistance to decompensated hyperglycemia. 130 In manifest type 2 diabetes, β -cells are exposed to both high doses of glucose (glucotoxicity) and lipids (lipotoxicity), respectively. 131 Lipotoxicity, manifests as incorporation of large amounts of triglycerides in pancreatic islets, leading to β -cell death. 132 While rodents are often preferred models to study disease progression, polygenic mouse models more closely resemble human physiology and preferred over the monogenic models such as in defective leptin signaling ( db , ob ). 133 , 134 New Zealand Obese (NZO) mice develop a polygenic disease pattern of obesity, insulin resistance, and type 2 diabetes. 134 , 135 The onset of hyperglycemia is characterized by an elevated proliferation rate and hypertrophy of the β -cells 136 leading to β -cell failure in most of the male animals. 137 The disease progression is characterized by a gradual loss of glucose transporter 2 138 and the transcription
