Molecular links between Obesity and Diabetes: “Diabesity”
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, obesity, fat, resistance, insulin resistance, adipose, tissue, adipose tissue, type, obese, type diabetes, glucose, mice, expression


136 leading to β -cell failure in most of the male animals. 137 The disease progression is characterized by a gradual loss of glucose transporter 2 138 and the transcription factor v-maf musculoaponeurotic fibrosarcoma oncogene family, protein A (avian) (MafA). 139 Interestingly, NZO mice fed a carbohydrate-free high fat diet become obese and insulin resistant but are protected from β -cell failure. 139-141 In contrast mice fed a diet rich in both carbohydrates and fat rapidly develop diabetes, indicating that the additive toxicity of an overflow of carbohydrates and lipids is important for the progression of β -cell failure. 139 , 140 , 142 , 143 Summary: Inability to store fat (lipodystrophy) or overflow of excess lipids from normal fat depots contributes to “ectopic” deposition of lipids and their metabolites in organs important for glucose metabolism, including muscle, liver, and the pancreas. Numerous studies have demonstrated involvement of these lipid metabolites in the development of insulin resistance and diabetes. Moreover, recent evidence indicates that hyperglycemia is a critical factor contributing to lipid-induced beta cell failure and diabetes. Thus, many leading scientists consider type 2 diabetes, a disorder with manifestations of abnormal glucose metabolism, to be at its most fundamental molecular level a disorder of lipid metabolism. The “Adipokine Hypothesis” Adipose tissue is not only a storage compartment for triglycerides but also a major endocrine and secretory organ, which releases a wide range of factors (adipokines) that signal through paracrine and hormonal mechanisms. 144 Some of these secreted molecules are involved in inflammatory processes, such as TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6 and MCP-1 as described above. The expanding volume of adipose tissue during obesity raises circulating levels of these inflammatory markers and is therefore thought to contribute to insulin resistance 145 and the development of T2DM (Figure 3). Figure 3: The “adipokine hypothesis.” Pathophysiology of obesity-induced dysfunction of adipokines in adipose cells contributing to peripheral insulin resistance. AdipoR2, adiponectin receptor 2; AMPK, AMP-activated protein kinase; PEPCK, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase; RBP4, retinol binding protein 4; Details in the text. More than 100 different factors secreted by adipocytes have been identified over the past years, and it seems likely that this number will increase further due to the progress in analytical chemistry. 146 Some of the prominent members of hormones produced by the adipose tissue are described below. Leptin: Leptin was the first adipokine discovered to influence body fat mass. It is predominantly secreted from white
