Molecular links between Obesity and Diabetes: “Diabesity”
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, obesity, fat, resistance, insulin resistance, adipose, tissue, adipose tissue, type, obese, type diabetes, glucose, mice, expression


prominent members of hormones produced by the adipose tissue are described below. Leptin: Leptin was the first adipokine discovered to influence body fat mass. It is predominantly secreted from white adipose tissue and exerts its main function by repressing food intake and promoting energy expenditure through sites of action in the central nervous system. 147 The leptin receptor is expressed in the arcuate, ventromedial, dorsomedial, and lateral hypothalamic nuclei, which are known to regulate food intake. 148 Mutation of both the leptin gene ( ob ) as well as the leptin receptor gene ( db ) leads to severe obesity, hyperphagia and insulin resistance in mice. 149 The ob mutation was first hypothesized in 1950, when animal caretakers of the Jackson Laboratory observed the spontaneous occurrence of an obese phenotype in a mouse. 150 but was not described as a non-sense mutation in the leptin gene until more than 40 years later. 151 Expression and secretion of leptin is correlated with the amount of body fat and adipocyte size. 152 Humans with mutations in both alleles of either leptin or the leptin receptor are obese, but these homozygous mutations are extremely rare. 153 To the contrary, the vast majority of obese individuals display high plasma leptin levels in proportion to their increased body fat. Consequently, attempts to treat obesity by leptin administration have been mostly unsuccessful due to an apparent leptin resistance of these patients. 154 Nevertheless, leptin improves insulin sensitivity by several mechanisms. In the liver and in skeletal muscle, leptin enhances glucose homeostasis by decreasing intracellular lipid accumulation 155 and, in skeletal muscle, by direct activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) 156 . In addition, leptin is able to inhibit insulin secretion by both, a direct effect on pancreatic β-cells, and an indirect mechanism via activation of the SNS (sympathetic nervous system) by the CNS (central nervous system). 157-160 Adiponectin: Adiponectin represents another important adipokine that has to be considered in the pathogenesis of insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes. Up-regulation of this collagen-like plasma protein secreted by adipocytes or its receptor is known to improve insulin sensitivity and endothelial function. 52 , 161 , 162 Adiponectin has been closely linked to diseases such as obesity, the metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia and essential hypertension through its anti-inflammatory effects. 163 , 164 In obesity and diabetes, adiponectin biosynthesis is impaired, and in vitro studies demonstrate suppression
