Molecular links between Obesity and Diabetes: “Diabesity”
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, obesity, fat, resistance, insulin resistance, adipose, tissue, adipose tissue, type, obese, type diabetes, glucose, mice, expression


syndrome, type 2 diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia and essential hypertension through its anti-inflammatory effects. 163 , 164 In obesity and diabetes, adiponectin biosynthesis is impaired, and in vitro studies demonstrate suppression of adiponectin expression by various inflammatory and oxidative stress factors. 165 , 166 Adiponectin regulates glucose and lipid metabolism by targeting the liver and skeletal muscle through two transmembrane receptors (AdipoR1 and AdipoR2). While AdipoR1 is most abundant in skeletal muscle, AdipoR2 is predominantly expressed in the liver. 167 Improvement of insulin sensitivity is reached through activation of AMPK as well as increased expression of PPAR α target genes. 168 Adiponectin also has a key role in differentiation of subcutaneous preadipocytes and in the central regulation of energy homeostasis. 161 , 169 Resistin: Resistin expression and secretion differs between humans and rodents. In rodents, resistin is predominantly secreted from mature adipocytes with some weak expression in pancreatic islets and hypothalamus. In contrast, humans express resistin primarily in macrophages where it is thought to be involved in the recruitment of other immune cells, and in the secretion of pro-inflammatory factors. 170 Because of these interspecies differences, it may have a less important role in humans during the pathogenesis of insulin resistance and diabetes. However, insulin-resistant mice display increased resistin levels and treatment with a thiazolidinedione, which activates adipocyte PPAR receptors and improves insulin sensitivity, lowers plasma resistin levels. 52 , 171 In addition, some studies describe a role for resistin in the regulation of hepatic glucose production. 172 Opposed to adiponectin, resistin decreases AMPK phosphorylation in liver, which leads to suppression of fatty acid oxidation and stimulation of glucose production. 173 In vitro data from cultured adipocytes demonstrated a decreased insulin-stimulated glucose transport and disturbed adipocyte differentiation after resistin treatment. 174 , 175 In humans, resistin is thought to impair insulin signaling by upregulating expression of the lipid phosphatase PTEN. 170 Retinol Binding Protein 4: Retinol binding protein 4 (RBP4) is predominantly expressed in adipose tissue and the liver and was first linked to the pathogenesis of insulin resistance when Abel and coworkers described that RBP4 was highly expressed in adipocytes of insulin resistant GLUT4-knockout mice. 176 In addition, injection or overexpression of RBP4 in mice led to impaired insulin sensitivity. On the molecular level, RBP4 was shown to induce hepatic expression of the gluconeogenic enzyme phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) and to inhibit insulin signaling in skeletal muscle. 177 Thus, at least
