Molecular links between Obesity and Diabetes: “Diabesity”
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, obesity, fat, resistance, insulin resistance, adipose, tissue, adipose tissue, type, obese, type diabetes, glucose, mice, expression


On the molecular level, RBP4 was shown to induce hepatic expression of the gluconeogenic enzyme phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) and to inhibit insulin signaling in skeletal muscle. 177 Thus, at least in rodents, increased serum RBP4 leads to impaired glucose uptake in skeletal muscle with concomitant increase of hepatic glucose production. 178 In humans, RBP4 influence on glucose homeostasis is less clear. Retinol binding protein 4 levels are elevated in plasma from obese and diabetic subjects. 179 However, in larger groups a definitive correlation between RBP4 and measures of insulin sensitivity could not be demonstrated. 180 Visfatin: Visfatin, also known as nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase (NAMPT) and pre-B-cell colony enhancing factor 1 (PBEF1), is predominantly expressed in visceral adipose tissue, from which the name visfatin was derived. As an adipokine, the protein had been also found in the bloodstream where it has been shown to exert insulin-like functions. In mice, administration of visfatin was shown to lower blood glucose levels, whereas mice with a mutation in visfatin had increased levels of circulating glucose. 181 However, subsequent studies have produced conflicting results regarding the association between visceral fat mass and plasma visfatin in humans. 182 , 183 and the initial study was, in part, retracted. 184 Despite these inconsistencies, a positive correlation between visfatin gene expression in visceral adipose tissue and BMI was seen in some human studies, as well as a negative correlation between BMI and visfatin gene expression in subcutaneous fat. 182 , 185 In summary, the provided evidence of a direct link between visfatin action and human type 2 diabetes mellitus is still weak and its role in obesity and insulin resistance remains to be elucidated. 52 Vaspin: Visceral adipose tissue-derived serpin or serpinA12 (Vaspin) was originally identified as an adipokine predominantly secreted from visceral adipose tissue. In humans, obesity and T2DM are associated with elevated vaspin serum concentrations and expression levels in adipose tissue, suggesting a compensatory role in response to diminished insulin signaling in obesity. In obese mice, Vaspin administration improves glucose tolerance, insulin sensitivity, and reduces food intake. 186 , 187 The exact cellular mechanisms of Vaspin action have yet to be elucidated, but a recent study demonstrated that Vaspin inhibited TNF-α- and IL-1-mediated activation of NF-κB and its downstream signaling molecules in a concentration-dependent manner and thereby protected endothelial cells from inflammation caused by pro-inflammatory cytokines. 188 Moreover, a single-nucleotide polymorphism (rs2236242) was described to be positively
