Molecular links between Obesity and Diabetes: “Diabesity”
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, obesity, fat, resistance, insulin resistance, adipose, tissue, adipose tissue, type, obese, type diabetes, glucose, mice, expression


its downstream signaling molecules in a concentration-dependent manner and thereby protected endothelial cells from inflammation caused by pro-inflammatory cytokines. 188 Moreover, a single-nucleotide polymorphism (rs2236242) was described to be positively associated with type 2 diabetes in 2759 participants in the KORA F3 study bearing an increased risk of diabetes independent of obesity, suggesting a link between vaspin and glucose metabolism. 189 Omentin-1: Omentin was described as a novel adipokine which is mainly produced by visceral adipose tissue and exhibits insulin-sensitizing action. Circulating levels of omentin are reduced in the obese state and in patients with T2DM. The beneficial effects of omentin are thought to be caused by a vasodilatation of blood vessels and attenuation of C-reactive protein-induced angiogenesis, potentially via the nuclear factor B signaling pathway, a potent pro-inflammatory signaling pathway. 190 In addition, omentin has been shown to block TNFα-induced JNK and NF-κB activation. 191 As with adiponectin, circulating levels of omentin are lower in obesity and also inversely correlated with measures of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) and lower serum omentin concentrations were found in individuals with impaired glucose tolerance and type 2 diabetes compared to healthy individuals. 192 However, it has to be elucidated whether the association of circulating omentin levels with the risk of T2DM is independent of BMI or can entirely be explained by obesity. In addition, further studies are needed to distinguish entirely between adiponectin and omentin action and whether omentin also shows a counter-regulatory increase in pro-inflammatory conditions. 193 Apelin: The peptide apelin is expressed among several tissues and secreted by adipocytes. Apelin gene expression levels are increased in adipose tissue from mouse models of obesity and hyperinsulinemia. Moreover, obese and hyperinsulinemic patients demonstrate elevated plasma levels of apelin. However, apelin plasma levels depend on several factors, including blood glucose levels and plasma triglyceride concentration. 194 Currently, apelin is being considered as a biomarker and drug target, but its role in the development of both obesity and type 2 diabetes needs to be clarified with convincing clinical studies. 195 , 196 Cardiotrophin-1: Cardiotrophin-1 (Ctf1) is expressed in different tissues and secreted as an adipokine. Targeted disruption of cardiotrophin-1 in mice leads to obesity and insulin resistance. 197 However, studies in humans have yielded contradictory results regarding cardiotrophin-1 levels and its association with obesity. 198 The role of cardiothrophin-1 in the regulation of metabolic circadian rhythms is the focus of current research. 199 WNT1-Inducible Signaling Pathway
