Molecular links between Obesity and Diabetes: “Diabesity”
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, obesity, fat, resistance, insulin resistance, adipose, tissue, adipose tissue, type, obese, type diabetes, glucose, mice, expression


regarding cardiotrophin-1 levels and its association with obesity. 198 The role of cardiothrophin-1 in the regulation of metabolic circadian rhythms is the focus of current research. 199 WNT1-Inducible Signaling Pathway Protein-1: Wnt1-inducible signaling pathway protein-1 (Wisp1) was recently described as a new adipokine. Its expression and secretion are increased in the course of differentiation of human adipocytes. Changes in body weight regulate both expression of Wisp-1 in adipose tissue and plasma levels of secreted Wisp-1. 200 Interestingly, Wisp-1 serum levels are elevated in obese patients affected with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and in patients with gestational diabetes mellitus. 201 , 202 Micro RNA (miRNA)- Containing Exosomes: Micro RNA’s are small, noncoding sequences of RNAs that control a multiplicity of gene expression processes in diverse organs. In adipose tissue, miRNA’s are important regulators of cellular metabolism such as cell differentiation and lipid storage. Expression of miRNAs is altered in patients with obesity and type 2 diabetes. 203 , 204 Interestingly, the action of miRNAs is not restricted to the cells of their original expression. Adipocyte-specific targeted disruption of the miRNA-processing enzyme Dicer in mice decreased the number of circulating exosomal miRNAs. Dicer (-/-) mice manifest glucose intolerance and insulin resistance, presumably mediated via increased fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) plasma levels. There is evidence for a direct effect of circulating miRNAs derived from adipose tissue on FGF21 translation in the liver. 205 In addition, a recent study showed that adipose tissue macrophages secrete miRNA-containing exosomes. Transfer of exosomes from obese to lean mice led to increased glucose intolerance and insulin resistance, and vice versa . The authors identified miRNA-155 as a potential target acting via the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma. 206 Fatty Acid Esters Of Hydroxy Fatty Acids: Recently, a novel family of lipids, the so-called fatty acid esters of hydroxy fatty acids (FAHFAs), has been identified. These branched fatty acid esters can be found in a variety of tissues with highest amounts in adipose tissues. A specific group of FAHFAs, the PAHSAs (Palmitic acid esters of hydroxy-stearic acids), have been shown to have beneficial metabolic effects. Circulating PAHSA levels are reduced in insulin resistant people, and serum levels correlate highly with insulin sensitivity. Moreover, treatment of obese mice with PAHSAs leads to improved glucose tolerance and increased insulin secretion. In adipocytes, PAHSAs signal through the omega-3 fatty acid receptor GPR120 to enhance insulin-stimulated glucose uptake. 207 The production of FAHFAs
