Molecular links between Obesity and Diabetes: “Diabesity”
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, obesity, fat, resistance, insulin resistance, adipose, tissue, adipose tissue, type, obese, type diabetes, glucose, mice, expression


leads to improved glucose tolerance and increased insulin secretion. In adipocytes, PAHSAs signal through the omega-3 fatty acid receptor GPR120 to enhance insulin-stimulated glucose uptake. 207 The production of FAHFAs in adipose tissue is tightly linked to the abundance of the insulin-responsive glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4) and the ability of adipocytes to transport glucose into the cell. Increased glucose uptake activates the nuclear transcription factor carbohydrate response element binding protein (CREBP), thereby enhancing lipogenesis and the synthesis of FAHFA’s. 208 In addition, PAHSAs have been demonstrated to exert anti-inflammatory effects by repressing macrophage-induced tissue inflammation. 209 Summary: Adipocyte-derived factors such as adipokines and cytokines may provide direct links between obesity and the onset and progression of type 2 diabetes. Recent advancements in analytical technologies, in particular mass spectroscopy methods, may lead to further future discoveries of novel adipokines and cytokines that play roles in regulating intra-organ cross talk and metabolism. GENETIC SUSCEPTIBILITY FOR OBESITY AND INSULIN RESISTANCE Genetic Factors Genetics clearly plays an important role in conferring the risk for the development of metabolic diseases. Variant genes determine the individual susceptibility towards known risk factors and may explain why only a fraction of obese individuals develop T2DM whereas the majority of diabetics are obese. In recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS’s), numerous variant genes were identified that predispose to diabetes or obesity. 210 , 211 However, due to the relatively small contribution of the individual single nuclear polymorphisms (SNPs) to the overall disease risk, the predictive value of the gene variants is relatively small, and the pathophysiological relevance of many of these SNPs remains to be clarified. When combined, the genes identified so-far by GWAS explain only 15-20% of the heritable variance of metabolic diseases. 212 , 213 An example of contradictory results of GWAS’s versus functional in vivo data represents the fat mass and obesity associated ( FTO ) gene. In different GWAS’s, SNPs located in the first intron of the FTO gene were associated with an altered body mass index, 214 , 215 whereas Fto knockout mice develop postnatal growth retardation and exhibit a reduced body length. 216 In contrast, no association of FTO was detected for height in humans. 214 , 217 Although new in vivo data exist that reflect the human pathophysiology more precisely, the discrepancies of the GWAS’s and functional approaches remain apparent. 218 Thus, even though many studies have confirmed FTO and TCF7L2 as two
