Molecular links between Obesity and Diabetes: “Diabesity”
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, obesity, fat, resistance, insulin resistance, adipose, tissue, adipose tissue, type, obese, type diabetes, glucose, mice, expression


that reflect the human pathophysiology more precisely, the discrepancies of the GWAS’s and functional approaches remain apparent. 218 Thus, even though many studies have confirmed FTO and TCF7L2 as two major genes implicated in obesity and diabetes in humans, respectively, GWAS’s have provided only limited mechanistic insights into the pathophysiology of these diseases. 214 , 219-221 Novel approaches combining classical familial linkage analysis methods with whole-genome sequencing (WGS) are currently emerging as an important and powerful analysis method, especially since rare variants, which are not well interrogated by GWAS’s, could be responsible for a substantial proportion of complex human diseases. 222 , 223 Perspectives: Positional Cloning to Identify Novel Genes In (and Out) of the Adipocyte Polygenic mouse models have proven to be important tools to investigate molecular mechanisms that link obesity and T2DM. Despite novel advancements in the sequencing technology, the most successful strategy to identify and characterize new risk alleles is represented by a positional cloning approach. 224 , 225 This approach capitalizes on a combination of breeding of multiple recombinant congenic mouse lines and of expression profiling of critical genomic regions that confer the phenotype. Using this approach, nine gene variants were identified as candidates for type 2 diabetes and/ or obesity during the last years. Sorcs1 encodes for a protein of largely unknown function that binds to a transcription factor responsible for islet vascularization. 226 Lisch-like factor was described to be responsible for reducing β -cell mass and β -cell replication rates. 227 Zfp69 , a zinc-finger transcription factor, was described as causal gene for the diabetogenic Nidd1 quantitative trait locus (QTL) derived from the lean SJL (Swiss Jim Lambert) mouse strain and responsible for the distribution of lipids between different organs. Recently, it was shown that Zfp69 modulates hepatic insulin sensitivity in mice. 93 , 228 , 229 Ifi202b , a member of the Ifi200 family of interferon inducible transcriptional modulators modulates fat accumulation through expression of adipogenic genes such as 11β-HSD1. 230 , 231 Syntaxin-binding protein 5-like ( Stxbp5l ) or tomosyn-2 was identified in an F2 intercross from the BTBR T (+) tf (BTBR) Lep(ob/ob) and C57BL/6 (B6) Lep(ob/ob) mouse strains as a key negative regulator of insulin secretion. 232 The same crossbreeding approach yielded Tsc2 as a gene underlying a QTL for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) on chromosome 17. It was demonstrated that Tsc2 (+/-) mice exhibited an increase in lipogenic
