Molecular links between Obesity and Diabetes: “Diabesity”
KEYWORDS: insulin, diabetes, obesity, fat, resistance, insulin resistance, adipose, tissue, adipose tissue, type, obese, type diabetes, glucose, mice, expression


approach yielded Tsc2 as a gene underlying a QTL for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) on chromosome 17. It was demonstrated that Tsc2 (+/-) mice exhibited an increase in lipogenic gene expression levels in the liver in an insulin-dependent manner. 233 The gene encoding the bile acid transporter Slco1a6 has been presented as a candidate gene for altered transport of taurocholic acid (TCA), resulting in broad gene regulation in pancreatic islets. 234 In an NZO-based crossbreeding approach, one of the components of the KATP channel in pancreatic β-cells, Abcc8 , was identified as causative factor in early-phase glucose-mediated insulin secretion. 235 Lastly, Tbc1d1, a Rab-GAP protein that is presumably involved in GLUT4 vesicle sorting in skeletal muscle was identified as causal variant for the Nob1 obesity QTL derived from a crossbreeding of lean SJL with obese NZO (New Zealand obese) mice. 91 , 236 , 237 Interestingly, both QTL, Nidd1 and Nob1 exhibit strong epistatic interaction as well as interaction with dietary fat in an outcross model of NZO and lean SJL mice. 91 , 93 , 238 and both Zfp69 and Tbc1d1 genes are directly responsible for fat storage and fatty acid oxidation, respectively. This underscores the importance of altered lipid partitioning as a common denominator in the pathogenesis of obesity-driven diabetes. All nine positionally cloned genes were located within consensus QTL regions, i.e. loci that have been linked to diabetes-related traits in multiple crossbreeding experiments. In fact, our meta-analyses of 77 published genome-wide linkage scans with hundreds of QTL strongly indicated the presence of consensus regions for metabolic traits in the mouse genome, and these hotspots could provide guidance for identifying novel gene variants involved in the development of the disease. 239 , 240 Nevertheless, generation and refinement of novel polygenic mouse models is important since complex genetics seems to contribute significantly to the pathogenesis of the human disease 241 Moreover, diverse genetic tools such as the generation of Chromosome Substitution Strains (CSSs) and combination of classical breeding approaches with high-throughput genotyping, sequencing and genetic engineering technologies, and information repositories highlight the power of the mouse for genetic, functional, and systems studies of complex traits and disease models. 242 summary Although immune system, ectopic fat, and macro/micronutrients all contribute in part to the susceptibility for diabetes in the obese state, most of the underlying molecular mechanisms are still poorly understood. The identification of susceptibility genes mediating the progression
