Thyroid Nodules and Cancer in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, pubmed, thyroid cancer, age, disease, risk, nodules, free, years, clinical, elderly, pmc free, pmc


ABSTRACT Thyroid nodules and thyroid cancer are common in elderly patients and demonstrate age-specific prevalence, malignancy risk, and clinical behavior. Improved risk stratification by ultrasound characteristics and molecular testing of thyroid nodules pre-operatively has reduced the need for diagnostic surgery in many individuals. In patients with differentiated thyroid cancer, total thyroidectomy and radioactive iodine followed by thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) suppression remain the mainstays of therapy. However, newer approaches of active surveillance and thyroid lobectomy have expanded treatment options for patients with low risk differentiated thyroid cancer. Co-morbid conditions and patient preference should inform management of thyroid nodules and thyroid cancer in the elderly, with particular attention to the risks of surgery and medication adverse effects. Furthermore, the mechanisms underlying the distinct clinical behavior of thyroid cancer found in older patients, including the drivers of more advanced stage at presentation, higher recurrence risk, and greater mortality, remain poorly understood. Patients with advanced thyroid cancer may benefit from recently developed targeted and immune therapies. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . THYROID NODULES IN THE ELDERLY Thyroid nodules are common in clinical practice and present unique management issues in elderly patients. The reported prevalence of thyroid nodules in iodine sufficient regions is 1-6% as detected by palpation, or as high as 19-68% when detected by ultrasound imaging ( 1 - 5 ). Evaluation of thyroid nodules is increasingly a concern for general internists and endocrinologists in the context of an aging population, increased use of imaging in clinical practice, and rising obesity. Thyroid nodules are more frequent in elderly patients, with a linear increase with age in both the presence of nodules and the absolute number of nodules per patient ( 6 ). Approximately 50% of individuals aged 65 years have thyroid nodules detected by ultrasonography ( 7 ). A cross-sectional survey of asymptomatic adults in Germany using ultrasonography to detect thyroid nodules demonstrated an even higher prevalence of 80% in women and 74% in men over 60 years old ( 4 ). In a prospective study of 6,391 patients referred for thyroid nodules at a large academic center, Kwong et al. showed a linear increase in the number of thyroid nodules per patient with age, rising from an average of 1.55 nodules ≥1 cm in patients age 20–29 years old to a mean of 2.21 nodules ≥1 cm in patients
