Thyroid Nodules and Cancer in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, pubmed, thyroid cancer, age, disease, risk, nodules, free, years, clinical, elderly, pmc free, pmc


nodules per patient with age, rising from an average of 1.55 nodules ≥1 cm in patients age 20–29 years old to a mean of 2.21 nodules ≥1 cm in patients ≥70 years old, demonstrating a 1.6% annual increased risk for multinodularity ( 6 ). Another potential contributor to this rising prevalence of thyroid nodules is the increased use of high-frequency ultrasound, CT, and MR imaging in routine clinical care, leading to the detection of asymptomatic, or incidental, thyroid nodules ( 4 , 5 , 7 , 8 ). Lastly, changes in population demographics over time, specifically increased rates of obesity, may contribute. Data from several ethnically diverse cohorts has identified parameters independently associated with the development of thyroid nodules, including obesity, female sex, radiation exposure, iodine deficiency, and smoking. These factors should be noted when evaluating elderly patients for potential thyroid nodules ( 9 ). THYROID NODULE EVALUATION Once identified, thyroid nodules should be evaluated to determine appropriate management. The differential diagnosis of thyroid nodularity includes benign and malignant solitary nodules, multinodular goiter, autonomous functioning nodules, cysts, and inflammation or thyroiditis ( 10 ). Nodules causing thyroid dysfunction, compressive symptoms, or harboring malignancy require attention. In the presence of biochemical and/or clinical signs of hyperthyroidism, a radioiodine uptake and scan should be pursued to distinguish autonomous nodules. Adjunctive data to support a diagnosis of inflammation or autoimmune destruction may include thyroid autoantibodies [anti-thyroid peroxidase (TPO) and anti-thyroglobulin (Tg)]. In addition, the presence of thyroid stimulating immunoglobulins suggest a diagnosis of Graves’ disease in the presence of goiter ( 11 ). Nodules without associated thyroid function abnormalities should be further evaluated to determine or exclude the presence of cancer. Guidelines from the American Thyroid Association summarize the management of non-functional thyroid nodules based upon imaging and patient characteristics ( 12 ). A general approach to evaluation of thyroid nodules is shown in Figure 1 . Figure 1. Approach to evaluation of thyroid nodules. Evaluation always includes measurement of thyroid function tests, including thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), and thyroid ultrasound. If hyperthyroidism is present, a thyroid uptake to exclude an autonomous functioning nodule (i.e. hyperfunctioning thyroid follicular tissue producing thyroid hormone excess). Cold nodules refer to nodules without autonomous production of thyroid hormone. Systems developed for malignancy risk stratification of thyroid nodules on ultrasound include the 2015 American Thyroid Association guidelines (ATA) and the American College of Radiology (ACR-TIRADS). Thyroid fine needle
