Thyroid Nodules and Cancer in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, pubmed, thyroid cancer, age, disease, risk, nodules, free, years, clinical, elderly, pmc free, pmc


hormone. Systems developed for malignancy risk stratification of thyroid nodules on ultrasound include the 2015 American Thyroid Association guidelines (ATA) and the American College of Radiology (ACR-TIRADS). Thyroid fine needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy should be considered for nodules with intermediate or high risk of malignancy based upon size and patient specific factors. Thyroid ultrasound is the most important imaging modality in the assessment of thyroid nodules. Multiple systems have been developed to stratify thyroid nodules by their malignancy risk based upon ultrasound findings and provide recommendations for FNA biopsy ( 12 - 15 ). A systematic review and meta-analysis of eight studies including 13,092 thyroid nodules compared the diagnostic performance of four commonly used ultrasound-based risk stratification systems: the American College of Radiology Thyroid Imaging and Reporting System (ACR-TIRADS), the American Thyroid Association (ATA), the Korean Thyroid Imaging and Reporting System (K-TIRADS) and European Thyroid Imaging and Reporting System (EU-TIRADS) ( 12 - 16 ). This analysis found that the pooled rate of unnecessary FNA biopsies ( i.e., those with a benign cytology result) was significantly lower with ACR-TIRADS (25%) when compared to ATA (51%, p<0.001) and K-TIRADS (55%, p<0.001), and not statistically different from EU-TIRADS (38%, p=0.087) ( 16 ). The diagnostic odds ratios among these four systems was similar ( 16 ). Features of thyroid nodules commonly associated with a higher risk of malignancy across these systems include solid and hypoechogenic appearance, irregular margins, microcalcifications, taller than wide shape, and evidence of extrathyroidal extension ( 12 - 15 ). Iso- or hyperechogenic appearance, smooth margins, and spongiform or partially cystic composition are features less associated with malignancy ( 12 - 15 ). Based upon ultrasound evaluation, nodules with highest risk for malignancy are recommended to have further evaluation by thyroid biopsy. THYROID NODULE BIOPSY Fine needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy is the recommended modality for sampling thyroid nodules. Cytology specimens collected by FNA are classified traditionally by the Bethesda System for Reporting Thyroid Cytopathology ( 17 ) across six categories: (i) non-diagnostic or unsatisfactory; (ii) benign; (iii) atypia of undetermined significance (AUS) or follicular lesion of undetermined significance (FLUS); (iv) follicular neoplasm or suspicious for a follicular neoplasm; (v) suspicious for malignancy; and (vi) malignant ( Table 1 ). The risk of malignancy determined by surgical pathology is estimated across each category and used to guide decisions about continued clinical observation or treatment with surgical resection ( 17 ).
