Thyroid Nodules and Cancer in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, pubmed, thyroid cancer, age, disease, risk, nodules, free, years, clinical, elderly, pmc free, pmc


The risk of malignancy determined by surgical pathology is estimated across each category and used to guide decisions about continued clinical observation or treatment with surgical resection ( 17 ). Table 1. Bethesda System for Reporting Thyroid Cytopathology and Associated Estimated Risk of Malignancy. View in own window Bethesda category Cytopathology Cytologic descriptions Malignancy risk Cancer = NIFTP Cancer ≠ NIFTP Typical management I Non-diagnostic Acellular specimen Cyst fluid only Obscuring factors 5-10% 5-10% Repeat FNA Ii Benign Benign follicular nodule Chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis Granulomatous thyroiditis 0-3% 0-3% Clinical and ultrasound follow-up Iii Atypia of undetermined significance (AUS) or follicular lesion of undetermined significance (FLUS) Atypia: Cytologic (focal nuclear changes, extensive but mild nuclear changes, atypical cyst lining cells, or ‘‘histiocytoid’’ cells) and/or architectural (predominantly microfollicles, sparsely cellular); Hurthle cells 6-18% 10-30% Repeat FNA, molecular testing, or diagnostic lobectomy Iv Follicular neoplasm or suspicious for a follicular neoplasm Follicular-patterned cases with mild nuclear changes (increased nuclear size, nuclear contour irregularity, and/or chromatin clearing), and lacking true papillae and intranuclear pseudo-inclusions 10-40% 25-40% Molecular testing or diagnostic lobectomy V Suspicious for malignancy Features suspicious for PTC, MTC, lymphoma, or other malignancy 45-60% 50-75% Total thyroidectomy or lobectomy Vi Malignant Features conclusive for malignancy: PTC (true papillae, psammoma bodies, nuclear pseudo-inclusions) MTC Poorly differentiated / ATC Non-endocrine malignancy (squamous cell, lymphoma, metastatic) 94-96% 97-99% Total thyroidectomy or lobectomy PTC, papillary thyroid carcinoma. MTC, medullary thyroid cancer. ATC, anaplastic thyroid cancer. NIFTP, noninvasive follicular thyroid neoplasm with papillary-like nuclear features. In situations of non-diagnostic FNA results or indeterminate cytology ( i.e., Bethesda iii or iv), repeat FNA biopsy is recommended. Additionally, three molecular tests are now available for further cancer risk stratification and can reduce the number of thyroid surgeries performed for ultimately benign lesions ( 18 ). The ThyroSeq v3 multigenomic classifer (University of Pittsburgh Medical Center and CBL PATH, Pittsburgh, PA) is a DNA based assay that detects the presence of high-risk cancer mutations and was initially developed as a rule-in test for thyroid cancer ( 19 ). The current version, ThyroSeq v3, incorporates 112 genes associated with thyroid cancer and has a reported sensitivity of 98% and specificity of 81% for detection of thyroid cancer from FNA samples ( 20 ). The Afirma genomic sequencing classifier (GSC) (Veracyte, San Francisco, CA, USA) evaluates mRNA expression associated with benign or malignant profiles and detects thyroid cancer-associated mutations ( 21 , 22
