Thyroid Nodules and Cancer in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, pubmed, thyroid cancer, age, disease, risk, nodules, free, years, clinical, elderly, pmc free, pmc


also found that despite a lower likelihood of malignancy for nodules in elderly patients, these cancers were more likely to have aggressive phenotypes ( 6 ). Further addressing the burden and risk of thyroid nodule evaluation in older patients, Angell and colleagues analyzed a large cohort of elderly patients (age 70 years and older) who underwent thyroid nodule evaluation over a 20-year period ( 24 ). In this study, 1,129 patients over the age of 70 years with 2,527 nodules ≥1 cm were evaluated. Thyroid cancer-specific mortality was observed in 8% of thyroid cancer patients. All such patients could be recognized during initial evaluation based on the presence of invasive tumor, extensive lymph node metastases, or distant metastases. While FNA was a safe procedure in this age-group and a benign result was obtained in two-thirds of samples, FNA led to surgery in 208 patients, of whom 93 (44.7%) had benign histopathology. These data suggest that while an identifiable group of older patients are at risk for mortality from thyroid cancer warranting aggressive treatment, many patients ≥70 years old derive little benefit or are even harmed by thyroid nodule therapy. Judicious use of FNA biopsy, improved stratification of nodule cancer risk by ultrasound characteristics, and molecular testing have improved pre-operative determination of malignancy risk in patients with thyroid nodules and reduced the need for diagnostic surgery. However, a significant number of patients who undergo thyroid nodule resection for suspicious nodules are still ultimately found to have benign lesions on surgical histopathology. Particularly in elderly patients with a greater burden of co-morbid medical disease, the risk of unnecessary thyroid surgery is an important consideration. DIFFERENTIATED THYROID CANCER IN THE ELDERLY While thyroid nodules are relatively common in elderly patients and the vast majority are benign ( 24 ), thyroid cancer is identified in a subset. Patients and their families are often concerned about the implications of this diagnosis and disease outcomes. Several subtypes of thyroid cancer are frequently encountered and increasing information about the underlying biology of these malignancies is now available. Most thyroid cancers are identified incidentally on imaging rather than by palpation on physical examination. Rarely, symptoms of thyroid cancer can include lymphadenopathy, hoarseness from laryngeal nerve involvement, dysphagia, airway compression from mass effect, or pain; when present, these symptoms portend more advanced disease and worse clinical prognosis ( 25 , 26 ). When thyroid cancer is identified, a combination
