Thyroid Nodules and Cancer in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, pubmed, thyroid cancer, age, disease, risk, nodules, free, years, clinical, elderly, pmc free, pmc


the sodium-iodide symporter (NIS) with resultant radio-iodine avidity ( 31 ). A history of radiation exposure increases the risk of PTC ( 34 - 36 ). PTC frequently spreads via the lymphatics to the regional lymph nodes, and bilateral involvement is present in approximately one-third of the cases at diagnosis. In rare cases, metastatic disease occurs in the lungs, brain, and bone ( 31 ). Micropapillary thyroid cancer, defined as a PTC less than 1 cm in diameter and confined to the thyroid, is likely to be of minimal clinical significance ( 37 ). A prospective, observation study of papillary thyroid microcarcinoma in Japan, found that in patients less than age 40 the microcarcinoma progressed to clinical disease, (defined as significant growth, size >1.2 cm, or lymph node metastases), in contrast to those over age 60, whose disease remained static ( 38 ), suggesting that in most elderly patients these lesions can be safely observed. Follicular thyroid cancer (FTC) is the second most common type of DTC and constitutes approximately 10 to 15% of all thyroid cancers ( 27 , 31 , 32 ). Risk factors include iodine deficiency and female sex ( 27 , 39 , 40 ). Compared to PTC, FTC less often has cervical lymph node spread but shows a predilection for vascular invasion and distant metastasis ( 41 ). Mutations of RAS , an activator of the mitogen-activated protein kinase and PI3K-AKT pathways, and rearrangements of PPAR- γ ( e.g., PAX8 - PPAR- γ translocation) have been implicated in the tumorigenesis of follicular adenomas and FTC ( 41 , 42 ). Hurthle cell carcinomas (HCCs) account for 5% of DTC and are characterized by an abundance of dysfunctional mitochondria (>75% of cell volume) and tendency for vascular invasion ( 43 , 44 ). These malignancies are more often radio-iodine refractory and aggressive in clinical behavior. Unique genetic drivers of HCC have been reported, namely widespread loss of heterozygosity, a high burden of disruptive mutations to protein-coding and tRNA-encoding regions of the mitochondrial genome, and recurrent mutations in DAXX, TP53, NF1, CDKN1A, ARHGAP35, TERT promoter, and the RTK/RAS/AKT/ mTOR pathway ( 45 , 46 ). Anaplastic thyroid cancer is rare and discussed separately. Variation in Histopathology and Tumor Extent by Age Several studies have shown variance in histopathology distribution with rising age. Lin et al. ( 47 ) conducted a retrospective analysis of 204 thyroid cancer patients
