Thyroid Nodules and Cancer in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, pubmed, thyroid cancer, age, disease, risk, nodules, free, years, clinical, elderly, pmc free, pmc


( 49 - 54 ). Indeed, age is incorporated into current clinical staging systems for differentiated thyroid cancer, including the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) 8 th edition ( 55 ); Metastasis, Age, Completeness of resection, Invasion, Size (MACIS) model ( 56 ); Age, Grade, Extent, Size (AGES) score; and the Age, Metastasis, Extent, Size (AMES) score ( 57 ). In all of these staging systems, advanced age is included as a risk factor predicting worse prognosis. Historic studies by Halnan ( 58 ) and Cady et al. ( 59 ) established a positive correlation between advanced age and worse prognosis in patients with DTC, later corroborated by Ito et al. ( 60 ) in a study of 1,740 patients with PTC and by Sugino et al. ( 61 ) in 134 patients with FTC. In many of these studies, worse prognosis has been defined variably as recurrence, decreased disease- or metastasis-free survival, cause-specific mortality, and/or overall mortality. Other reports have shown that the presence of lymph node involvement and extrathyroidal extension may portend a more ominous outcome in older compared to younger patients ( 59 , 62 - 64 ). Extrathyroidal disease in older patients increased recurrence to 67% and death rates to 60% compared to those with intrathyroidal disease, while in younger patients the relative increases were 12% and 4%, respectively ( 59 ). Additionally, the risk of death with distant metastasis is greater in older compared to younger patients (96% versus 63%) ( 59 ). Recently, this well-accepted tenet of thyroid cancer has been modified in two important ways, namely that age likely modifies prognosis in a continuous rather than dichotomous manner and that age itself may not be as relevant to thyroid cancer behavior as the accompanying changes in accumulated cell mutations, immune senescence, and hormone changes that accompany it ( 65 ). With the 8 th edition of AJCC staging for differentiated thyroid cancer, the age threshold for increased risk was raised from 45 to 55 years, based upon several reports suggesting that this increased validity for staging ( 66 , 67 ). More recent data suggest that thyroid cancer mortality and recurrence prediction is more robust when age is modeled as a continuous variable, leading some to suggest the elimination of a specific age cutoff from staging completely ( 65 ). In a study of 3,664 patients with differentiated thyroid cancer, Ganly et
