Thyroid Nodules and Cancer in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, pubmed, thyroid cancer, age, disease, risk, nodules, free, years, clinical, elderly, pmc free, pmc


variable, leading some to suggest the elimination of a specific age cutoff from staging completely ( 65 ). In a study of 3,664 patients with differentiated thyroid cancer, Ganly et al. found that disease-specific mortality increased progressively with advancing age, without a threshold age ( 54 ). Similarly, evaluation of over 30,000 patients in the SEER database by Orosco et al. demonstrated a linear association with age and thyroid cancer death ( 53 ). A review by Haymart et al. summarizes possible biologic mechanisms underlying the clinical observations of worse thyroid cancer prognosis in the elderly ( 51 ). Briefly, mortality findings may be confounded by greater comorbid nonthyroidal diseases with older age. Higher baseline levels of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) may accelerate tumor cell growth via stimulation of the TSH-receptor. If one presumes that thyroid cancers detected in elderly patients have had a longer time of subclinical growth and evolution compared to cancers detected in younger patients, then such tumors might have had greater opportunity to acquire genetic mutations facilitating cell cycle escape, loss of differentiated features ( e.g., loss of sodium-iodine symporter and radioiodine avidity), and metastasis. In summary, there is significant observational evidence that older patients with thyroid cancer have worse clinical outcomes, though the precise effect of increasing age and the etiology of this distinct clinical behavior remain incompletely understood. Treatment of Differentiated Thyroid Cancer Historically, differentiated thyroid cancers were treated with complete surgical resection of the thyroid gland combined with thyroid hormone suppression of TSH and radioactive iodine adjuvant therapy. More recently, recognition of the overall good prognosis and low disease specific survival in patients with DTC ( 68 ) has shifted management toward greater consideration for partial thyroid surgery, reduced use of radioactive iodine (RAI) in patients with low risk of recurrent disease, and active surveillance of some cancers. Treatment strategies for progressive or metastatic disease include repeat surgery, RAI ablation, or systemic therapies ( 12 ). A general approach to the treatment of differentiated thyroid cancers is presented in Figure 2 . Figure 2. Approach to the treatment of differentiated thyroid cancers (DTC). RAI, radioactive iodine. TSH, thyroid stimulating hormone. Management will be influenced by patient characteristics, such as age, comorbid conditions, and preference for invasive or conservative therapy, and modalities available at the treating center. Two competing facts in older patients must be considered in selecting appropriate therapy for each individual. First, as
