Thyroid Nodules and Cancer in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, pubmed, thyroid cancer, age, disease, risk, nodules, free, years, clinical, elderly, pmc free, pmc


lobectomy is a more limited surgery that removes only the primary tumor and ipsilateral normal thyroid lobe. Additional exploration and removal of central and lateral neck lymph nodes suspicious for cancer metastases may be done concurrently with either procedure, as guided by preoperative imaging or intraoperative findings. The decisions to pursue surgery and the extent of surgery ( i.e., total thyroidectomy versus lobectomy) in an elderly patient require individual evaluation of co-morbid illnesses and life expectancy. The most common complications of thyroidectomy include hypoparathyroidism, recurrent laryngeal nerve injury, hematoma, and wound infection; high-volume thyroid surgeons have minimal to no increase in the risk of surgical complications with increasing age ( 70 - 75 ). However, elderly patients are more likely to receive thyroidectomy at community and low-volume sites ( 76 ) where the rate of surgical complications may be higher. In population-based studies of thyroidectomy, which may reflect more accurately the experience of many elderly patients, increasing age is associated with longer hospital length of stay ( 76 ) and readmissions after thyroidectomy ( 77 ). In the cohort of elderly and very elderly patients studied by Chereau et al. ( 48 ), the authors found no increase in thyroidectomy-specific complications ( i.e., permanent hypocalcemia and recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy) with increasing age, but did find an increase in medical complications surrounding surgery, 2.3-2.7% in those over 65 years of age compared to 0.6% in those under 65 years old. LOBECTOMY Thyroid lobectomy may be considered in select patients with low-risk disease ( 12 , 70 ). The ATA guidelines revised in 2015 suggest that lobectomy is appropriate for DTC with a primary tumor size <4 cm and without extrathyroidal extension or clinical evidence of lymph node metastasis ( 12 ). Potential advantages of lobectomy over total thyroidectomy are lower rates of surgical complications from hypoparathyroidism and recurrent laryngeal nerve damage ( 78 ). In addition, some patients do not require thyroid hormone replacement after lobectomy to achieve the recommended low normal target TSH range of 0.5-2mIU/L ( 79 ). On the other hand, patients who initially undergo lobectomy, but are found to have aggressive disease features ( e.g., extrathyroidal extension, lymph node metastasis) on surgical pathology, are encouraged to undergo completion thyroidectomy. This facilitates monitoring of disease with serum thyroglobulin (Tg) and treatment with adjuvant RAI (discussed below). Because elderly patients more often have aggressive disease features and higher
