Thyroid Nodules and Cancer in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, pubmed, thyroid cancer, age, disease, risk, nodules, free, years, clinical, elderly, pmc free, pmc


undergo completion thyroidectomy. This facilitates monitoring of disease with serum thyroglobulin (Tg) and treatment with adjuvant RAI (discussed below). Because elderly patients more often have aggressive disease features and higher rates of local recurrence requiring re-operation, some recommend initial total thyroidectomy in this population ( 73 ). ACTIVE SURVEILLANCE Although surgery is the accepted initial management for most DTC, active surveillance may be an alternative strategy to immediate surgery for an appropriately selected group of patients ( 80 ). Multiple international retrospective studies with long term follow-up suggest that many small (<1-1.5cm), well-differentiated PTCs, without evidence of extrathyroidal extension or metastases, have low rates of growth and progression ( 38 , 81 , 82 ). In a cohort of 291 US patients with low-risk PTC followed by serial ultrasonography, Tuttle and colleagues (74e) showed significant growth in only a minority of patients over a median follow-up of 25 months: volume increase of greater than 50% in only 36 (12%) patients, and size increase greater than 3 mm in 11 (3.8%) patients. Ito and colleagues ( 38 ) similarly showed in a cohort of 1235 Japanese patients with small PTCs followed with active ultrasonographic surveillance for a median of 75 months that, by 5 and 10 years, only 4.9% and 8% of patients experienced tumor growth of more than 3 mm, and 1.7% and 3.8% of patients experienced new lymph node metastases, respectively. Importantly, in a subset of patients who ultimately underwent thyroid surgery in this study, none were found to have distant metastases and no patient died of PTC, suggesting that delaying intervention until the time of growth or detection of lymph node spread did not adversely affect mortality. Active surveillance for low-risk PTC may avoid unwarranted surgery, surgical complications, RAI administration, and lifelong thyroid hormone replacement therapy and should be considered for appropriate patients, particularly those with reliable follow-up, high surgical risk, shorter life expectancy, or with concomitant medical issues that need to be addressed before surgery ( 80 , 83 ). RADIOACTIVE IODINE ABLATION Based upon the extent of primary disease noted on surgical pathology ( i.e., tumor size, extrathyroidal extension, lymph node and vascular spread), patients can be stratified by their risk for recurrent disease. Adjuvant therapy with radioactive iodine (I 131 ; usual dose100-150mCi) is recommended for patients with a high risk of recurrence after total thyroidectomy, and RAI should be considered for patients with an
