Thyroid Nodules and Cancer in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, pubmed, thyroid cancer, age, disease, risk, nodules, free, years, clinical, elderly, pmc free, pmc


with radioactive iodine (I 131 ; usual dose100-150mCi) is recommended for patients with a high risk of recurrence after total thyroidectomy, and RAI should be considered for patients with an intermediate risk of recurrence ( 12 ). An analysis of 21,870 patients with intermediate-risk PTC found that adjuvant RAI therapy was associated with a 29% reduced risk of death overall with clear benefit in those over 65 years of age ( 84 ). RAI may also be used as a treatment modality in patients with persistent or recurrent RAI-avid disease who are not surgical candidates, usually requiring doses of 150mCi or higher. Finally, lower doses of RAI (30mCi) may be used to ablate remnant normal thyroid tissue and improve the utility of serum Tg tumor marker monitoring even in patients with a lower risk of recurrence. Two multicenter studies showed that an ablative dose of 30 mCi (1.1 MBq) I 131 was as effective as 100 mCi (3.7 MBq); both doses were 90% effective for ablation of residual thyroid tissue ( 85 , 86 ). A long-term follow-up of one of these studies (median 4.5 years) showed that the radioiodine dose selected for remnant ablation did not affect recurrence rate ( 87 ). Treatment benefits of RAI should be weighed against side effects. The adverse effects of RAI therapy are increasingly recognized and include transient neck pain and swelling, decreased fertility, dry mouth and eyes, and secondary malignancy and are correlated with higher I 131 doses ( 88 ). In patients initially treated with lobectomy or active surveillance for low-risk DTC, surgical removal of remaining normal thyroid tissue is recommended prior to RAI use. THYROID STIMULATING HORMONE (TSH) SUPPRESSION Following surgery, and RAIA if indicated, patients are treated with thyroid hormone, usually with a dose of levothyroxine that suppresses serum TSH to subnormal levels. Several special considerations for the goals of thyroid hormone therapy following thyroid cancer arise in elderly patients. Thyroid hormone replacement is titrated to levels sufficient to suppress pituitary secretion of TSH, which is considered a growth-promoting factor for follicular cell-derived thyroid cancers. Revised guidelines from the ATA ( 12 ) suggest individualized targets for TSH suppression in thyroid cancer, generally targeting a low to low-normal range TSH. Greater TSH suppression in more aggressive disease is balanced with greater cardiac and bone complications in elderly patients. Older patients are more likely to have co-morbid cardiac disease, including
