Thyroid Nodules and Cancer in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, pubmed, thyroid cancer, age, disease, risk, nodules, free, years, clinical, elderly, pmc free, pmc


TSH. Greater TSH suppression in more aggressive disease is balanced with greater cardiac and bone complications in elderly patients. Older patients are more likely to have co-morbid cardiac disease, including arrhythmias, coronary artery disease, and heart failure, which can place them at increased risk for complications from thyroid hormone excess. A population-based study of patients taking levothyroxine for any cause, found a significantly higher risk of cardiac arrhythmias [HR 1.6 (1.10–2.33)] and cardiovascular admission or death [1.37 (1.17–1.60)] in those with a suppressed serum TSH (≤0.03 mU/L) compared to those with TSH in the normal reference interval ( 89 ). Notably, increased cardiovascular risk was not observed in patients with a low but not fully suppressed TSH (TSH 0.04 – 0.4 mU/L). Specifically, in thyroid cancer patients treated with levothyroxine with modestly suppressed TSH (mean TSH <0.35 mU/L), atrial fibrillation was common (17.5% prevalence) in those patients ≥60 years old ( 89 ). Longstanding hyperthyroidism is associated with osteoporotic fractures and loss of bone mineral density. Specifically, post-menopausal women (≥65yo) with suppressed TSH levels (0.1 mU/L) due to endogenous or exogenous thyroid hormone had significantly higher rates of new hip (OR 3.6, 95% CI 1.0-12.9) and vertebral fractures (OR 4.5, 95% CI 1.3 -15.6) compared to comparable women with normal TSH levels over a 3.7 years follow-up ( 90 ). In adult patients on levothyroxine therapy, a suppressed TSH (≤0.03 mU/L) was associated with a two-fold increase in risk [HR 2.02 (1.55–2.62)] of new osteoporotic fracture compared to similar patients treated with levothyroxine with a TSH maintained in the normal reference interval ( 89 ). Studies evaluating thyroid cancer patients are limited in outcome evaluation of bone mineral density (BMD) rather than fracture incidence, but generally support similar conclusions regarding lower BMD with suppressive-dose levothyroxine therapy ( 91 - 93 ). In elderly patients receiving TSH-suppression therapy, dual-emission X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) monitoring of BMD should be considered based upon age and other risk factors for osteoporosis. There are no guidelines to suggest the optimal interval for DEXA screening; osteoporosis once identified should be treated using standard therapies (such as bisphosphonates or RANKL inhibitor) unless otherwise contraindicated ( 94 ). Peripheral metabolism of thyroid hormone and clearance decreases with advanced age so that a lower medication dose is needed to achieve comparable serum levels ( 95 , 96 ). Levothyroxine therapy is complicated further by polypharmacy in elderly patients, where commonly
