Thyroid Nodules and Cancer in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, pubmed, thyroid cancer, age, disease, risk, nodules, free, years, clinical, elderly, pmc free, pmc


so that a lower medication dose is needed to achieve comparable serum levels ( 95 , 96 ). Levothyroxine therapy is complicated further by polypharmacy in elderly patients, where commonly prescribed medications ( e.g., calcium, iron) can decrease gut absorption of levothyroxine ( 97 ) or change drug metabolism ( e.g., rifampicin, phenytoin, carbamazepine, amiodarone) ( 98 ). In summary, as suggested by society guidelines ( 12 ), TSH goals in thyroid cancer should be individualized and re-evaluated over time. POSTOPERATIVE SURVEILLANCE Recommended follow-up of DTC includes biochemical surveillance with measurement of serum thyroglobulin (Tg) and Tg antibody (Tg Ab) concentrations and structural surveillance with neck ultrasonography at clinically appropriate intervals ( 12 ). Tg is a thyroid-specific protein that can be measured in blood to monitor for the presence of thyroid cancer, as well as remnant normal thyroid tissue. As such, serum Tg is used as a tumor marker for follicular cell-derived thyroid cancers, including PTC, FTC, and Hurthle cell thyroid cancer. Serum Tg levels are initially checked 4-6 weeks after total thyroidectomy, and then at intervals of 6-12 months ( 12 ). The trends of serum Tg overtime are most informative, with a rising Tg concerning for disease recurrence. While Tg levels are usually monitored in the context of a suppressed TSH, a stimulated Tg measurement may provide a more sensitive evaluation for persistent or recurrent disease ( 99 ). Finally, the measurement of serum Tg is confounded by the presence of Tg antibodies (Tg Ab), which occurs in approximately 20% of patients with DTC and can mask recurrent or persistent disease by causing falsely low or undetectable serum Tg levels ( 100 ). Evidence from retrospective studies suggests that increasing TgAb levels (measured using validated assays), compared with stable or decreasing titers, can be used as a surrogate tumor marker in these patients ( 100 , 101 ). A suppressed Tg level >0.2 ng/mL after total thyroidectomy and RAI, a stimulated Tg level >2- 5 ng/mL, a rising Tg level, or the persistence of Tg antibodies, is concerning for further evaluation ( 12 , 100 ). A persistently elevated (>0.2ng/mL Tg with TSH suppression or >2ng/mL stimulated Tg) or rising serum Tg or Tg Ab level should prompt concern for persistent or recurrent disease ( 12 ). In patients who have not received RAI after thyroidectomy, residual normal thyroid tissue may contribute to a higher baseline Tg
