Thyroid Nodules and Cancer in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, pubmed, thyroid cancer, age, disease, risk, nodules, free, years, clinical, elderly, pmc free, pmc


prompt concern for persistent or recurrent disease ( 12 ). In patients who have not received RAI after thyroidectomy, residual normal thyroid tissue may contribute to a higher baseline Tg level after thyroidectomy. In these patients, a suppressed Tg >1ng/mL or rising Tg level should prompt concern for disease recurrence. Similarly, because of the significant volume of normal thyroid tissue remaining in patients who have undergone thyroid lobectomy, the optimal use of Tg in these patients remains uncertain. DYNAMIC RISK STRATIFICATION The process by which serum Tg (or Tg Ab) levels and imaging surveillance data are combined to make an evolving assessment of disease status in DTC patients is called dynamic risk stratification ( 12 , 102 ). Patients are classified across the spectrum from no biochemical or structural evidence of disease to definite persistent or recurrent thyroid cancer. Patients with reassuring or low risk continue on the current regimen of tumor surveillance or are relaxed to a more conservative approach. In contrast, patients in whom DRS shows an increasing risk of thyroid cancer recurrence or progression are recommended to undergo further diagnostic evaluations to localize disease and/or additional treatment. In addition, levothyroxine therapy may be adjusted for greater TSH suppression and the interval of monitoring with serum tumor markers and imaging may be shortened. Specifically, patients with no biochemical or structural evidence of disease are deemed to have an “excellent response” ( 12 , 102 ). TSH suppression is relaxed to the low normal range (0.5-2mIU/L) to mitigate long term adverse effects of iatrogenic hyperthyroidism and annual tumor marker surveillance with or without thyroid ultrasound usual. A “biochemical incomplete” response indicates persistent abnormal Tg values or increasing TgAb levels in the absence of localizable disease ( 12 , 102 ). An “indeterminate response” is defined as nonspecific biochemical or structural findings that cannot be confidently classified as representing malignant disease ( 12 , 102 ). Patients with a “biochemical incomplete’ or “indeterminate response” have a TSH goal of 0.1 - 0.5mIU/L. In patients with clear recurrent or persistent disease on imaging and elevated Tg or TgAb serum markers are classified as structural incomplete response” ( 12 , 102 ). TSH is maintained suppressed below 0.1mIU/L. In these patients, and some with “incomplete biochemical” or “indeterminate response,” additional evaluation with neck ultrasonography, whole-body RAI scanning, and/or PET/CT depending on level of clinical suspicion, is recommended to localize residual thyroid tissue/cancer.
