Thyroid Nodules and Cancer in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, pubmed, thyroid cancer, age, disease, risk, nodules, free, years, clinical, elderly, pmc free, pmc


some with “incomplete biochemical” or “indeterminate response,” additional evaluation with neck ultrasonography, whole-body RAI scanning, and/or PET/CT depending on level of clinical suspicion, is recommended to localize residual thyroid tissue/cancer. Identification of abnormal lymph nodes or tumor mass can then be evaluated for possible further treatment with RAI, surgery, or targeted therapy. SYSTEMIC THERAPY Patients with advanced and symptomatic DTC that cannot be treated with further surgery or RAI may benefit from systemic therapy. Older cytotoxic drugs have shown little benefit for progressive, advanced, or metastatic papillary or follicular thyroid cancer while causing significant side effects. Improved understanding of the pathogenesis of these cancers is leading to the development of new agents aimed at specific oncogenic mechanisms ( e.g., RET, BRAF). Currently three tyrosine kinase inhibitors (sorafenib, lenvatinib, and cabozantinib) are approved for therapy of metastatic, RAI-resistant DTC. Sorafenib, an oral multi-kinase inhibitor, inhibits vascular endothelial growth factor receptors (VEGFR-1, VEGFR-2, and VEGFR-3), RET kinase (including RET/PTC), BRAF V600E, and platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR) beta. In the DECISION phase 3 multicenter placebo-controlled trial of 416 patients, 409 had distant metastases: 86% in the lungs, 51% in lymph nodes, and 27% in bone ( 103 ). The group treated with sorafenib had longer progression-free survival (10.8 months) compared to the placebo group (5.8 months). At disease progression, 71% of patients in the placebo group crossed over to receive open-label sorafenib; as a consequence, overall survival did not differ between the two groups. Twenty percent of patients in the sorafenib group received other cancer therapy after the trial. The most frequent adverse events in the active drug group were palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia, diarrhea, alopecia, rash, weight loss, hypertension, anorexia, oral mucositis and pruritus. Side effects were relieved by dose reduction. Lenvatinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor of the VEGFRs 1, 2, and 3; fibroblast derived growth factor receptor (FGFR)s 1 through 4; PDGFRα; RET; and KIT signaling pathways. The SELECT phase 3 trial randomly assigned 261 patients to receive lenvatinib and 131 patients to receive placebo; the median age of patients in the trial was over 60 years ( 104 ). The median duration of follow-up was 17 months; 114 patients assigned placebo had progression, and 109 of them elected to receive lenvatinib. Disease progression occurred in 36% in the lenvatinib group compared to 83% in the placebo group. Median progression free survival was 18.3 months with lenvatinib versus 3.6 months with
