Thyroid Nodules and Cancer in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, pubmed, thyroid cancer, age, disease, risk, nodules, free, years, clinical, elderly, pmc free, pmc


prior lenvatinib and/or sorafenib and 22% had received cabozantinib and/or vandetanib. The overall response rate was 89% (95% CI 52-100), with all eight patients demonstrating partial response to treatment and effects lasting >6 months. Notable adverse events seen in thyroid cancer patients included hypertension, fatigue, cytopenia, and pneumonitis ( 108 ). Finally, larotrectinib and entrectinib are approved for metastatic or unresectable thyroid cancers with NTRK gene fusions and no alternative treatments ( 109 , 110 ). While not without side effects, these targeted kinase and RET inhibitors demonstrated efficacy in prolonging disease free survival in patients with metastatic, RAI-refractory DTC and should be considered in the symptomatic elderly patient with sufficient performance status and potential benefit. For differentiated thyroid cancer that progresses despite these therapies, additional treatment with external beam radiation, off label use of BRAF inhibitors, and clinical trials of immune checkpoint inhibitor therapies are sometimes utilized. These modalities are discussed below in the context of anaplastic thyroid cancer. REDIFFERENTIATION THERAPY Another treatment approach that has been explored in advanced, RAI-resistant follicular cell-derived thyroid cancers is the use of MEK or BRAF inhibitors for redifferentiation and restoration of RAI sensitivity. Several trials have been pursued based upon promising preclinical evidence showing increased sodium-iodine symporter expression and radioiodine uptake reinduction by modulation of the MAPK signaling pathway ( 111 ). An early phase study by Ho et al . ( 112 ) showed that in 20 patients with RAI-refractory advanced DTC, treatment with MEK inhibitor selumetinib for 4 weeks increased sensitivity to RAI uptake in 12 (60%) subjects (including 4/9 with BRAF and 5/5 with NRAS mutations). Eight of 12 patients reached the pre-defined dosimetry threshold for repeat RAI therapy, of which five had an objective response and three had stable disease ( 112 ). The subsequent phase III ASTRA study ( 113 ) was done to evaluate whether selumetinib given with initial RAI therapy in DTC patients with a high risk of primary treatment failure ( i.e. ATA high risk of recurrence) would improve complete remission at 18 months and decrease the need for additional therapy. The addition of selumetinib to radioiodine did not improve the complete remission rate (40% vs. 38.5% in the placebo group). Another multi-center phase II prospective trial evaluating selumetinib in RAI-refractory DTC patients is currently underway (SEL-I-METRY, trial ISRCTN17468602) ( 114 ). Several small studies have examined other BRAF ( e.g. drabafenib) and MEK
