Thyroid Nodules and Cancer in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, pubmed, thyroid cancer, age, disease, risk, nodules, free, years, clinical, elderly, pmc free, pmc


II prospective trial evaluating selumetinib in RAI-refractory DTC patients is currently underway (SEL-I-METRY, trial ISRCTN17468602) ( 114 ). Several small studies have examined other BRAF ( e.g. drabafenib) and MEK inhibitors (e.g. trametinib), alone or in combination, as reviewed recently by Buffet et al . ( 114 ). For example, Rothenberg et al. ( 115 ) showed resensitization in six of 10 BRAF V600E + RAI-resistant thyroid cancer patients following six weeks of drabafenib therapy. In addition, following RAI therapy with 150mCi, two of the six patients showed a partial response and the remaining four had stable disease at three months. Another group, Dunn et al. ( 116 ) also evaluated vemurafenib in 10 patients with a BRAF -mutated-PTC or poorly differentiated thyroid cancer. After 4 weeks of vemurafenib, RAI uptake increased in 6/10 patients, and of four patients retreated with RAI therapy, two showed partial response and two had stable disease at six months. While a potentially promising adjuvant strategy for these challenging tumors, additional prospective evaluation is needed before this strategy can be considered within the standard of care. ANAPLASTIC THYROID CANCER Anaplastic thyroid carcinoma (ATC) is a rare and aggressive subtype of thyroid cancer that accounts for <1% of all thyroid cancers ( 27 , 31 ). It more commonly affects the elderly, with a mean age at diagnosis of 65 years and more than 90% patients with ATC are over age 50 ( 31 ). Despite recent advances, the median overall survival remains poor, around 3–5 months, with a 1-year survival of approximately 20% ( 117 ). Aldinger et al. reported a five-year survival rate of only 7.1% with a mean survival period of 6.2 months from the time of tissue diagnosis and 11.8 months from the time of onset of symptoms ( 118 ). The most frequent presenting complaint in patients with ATC is a rapidly growing mass with tightness in the neck ( 118 ). Patients may also complain of dysphagia, hoarseness, dyspnea, neck pain, sore throat, and cough. Examination of the neck usually reveals a fixed, large, firm mass, which may impair the ability to detect lymphadenopathy on clinical examination. Hemorrhage and necrosis within the tumor may result in soft, fluctuant masses. Rarely, patients with massive tumor extension into the mediastinum or lungs may present with superior vena cava syndrome or dyspnea. Unfortunately, most patients with ATC present with advanced stage disease. In
