Thyroid Nodules and Cancer in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, pubmed, thyroid cancer, age, disease, risk, nodules, free, years, clinical, elderly, pmc free, pmc


patients with massive tumor extension into the mediastinum or lungs may present with superior vena cava syndrome or dyspnea. Unfortunately, most patients with ATC present with advanced stage disease. In a retrospective study of thyroid cancers in 204 elderly (age >60 years) patients by Lin et al. ( 47 ), 75% of patients diagnosed with ATC had distant metastases to the lung, bone, mediastinum, and peritoneum at presentation. Similarly, in the cohort reported by Aldinger et al. , 78 of 84 (93%) patients with ATC presented with advanced stage III and stage IV disease ( 118 ). Additional patient factors associated with worse prognosis in ATC include advanced age (>60–70 years), male gender, presence of leukocytosis (>10,000), and symptoms related to tumor mass effect, such as neck pain, dysphagia, rapidly growing neck mass. Regarding older age as a poor prognostic factor, in a cohort of 516 patients with ATC, Kebebew et al. reported a 28% greater mortality in patients over 60 years of age compared to those less than 60 years determined by multivariate analysis ( 117 ). ATC often, but not always, arises from pre-existing differentiated thyroid cancer, with 20% of patients with antecedent DTC and another 20-30% with concurrent DTC (co-existent on histopathology). There is also a higher incidence of ATC in patients with endemic goiter. These associations are relevant for the treatment of ATC because driver mutations such as BRAF and RAS may be retained in the anaplastic tumor cells and can be targeted with therapy ( 31 , 118 ). Treatment of Anaplastic Thyroid Cancer While the prognosis of ATC remains poor, treatment options to slow the progression of disease, palliate symptoms, and, in rare cases, attempt cure, are available as approved therapies and in clinical trials. EXTERNAL RADIATION External radiation to the neck region is appropriate for patients with aggressive cancers that cannot be completely resected surgically ( 12 ). Schwartz et al. reported limited success in the treatment of RAI-refractory patients with extrathyroidal spread, positive surgical margins, or gross residual disease with a mean of 60 Gy (38-72 Gy); survival was less in patients with high-risk pathology, metastases, and gross residual disease ( 119 ). In the context of ATC, disease is often assumed to be radioiodine refractory, and external beam radiation may be used for preservation of vital neck structures. TARGETED SYSTEMIC THERAPY AND IMMUNOTHERAPY Most patients with ATC have rapidly progressive disease
