Thyroid Nodules and Cancer in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, pubmed, thyroid cancer, age, disease, risk, nodules, free, years, clinical, elderly, pmc free, pmc


to be radioiodine refractory, and external beam radiation may be used for preservation of vital neck structures. TARGETED SYSTEMIC THERAPY AND IMMUNOTHERAPY Most patients with ATC have rapidly progressive disease and should be evaluated for clinical trials when feasible as new treatments continue to be developed. Targeted therapy with inhibitors to specific gene mutations and fusions has shown some success and is the focus of numerous ongoing clinical trials. Therapies include inhibitors of BRAF, MEK, NTRK, RET, and ALK. Combination treatment with BRAF inhibitor dabrafenib and MEK inhibitor trametinib was recently approved for the treatment of BRAF V600E mutated, unresectable/locally advanced ATC, following a 69% overall response rate in a phase II open label trial of 16 patients with ATC ( 120 ). Immunotherapy reagents target the impaired immune responses and immune suppression that arise in cancer allowing malignant cells to grow and spread. Immune checkpoint inhibitors are a kind of immunotherapy that block immune regulatory pathways with the goal of increasing anti-tumor immune responses and producing tumor killing by host leukocytes. Two primary classes of immunotherapy being evaluated for advanced thyroid cancer are inhibitors of cytotoxic T lymphocyte A (CTLA)-4 (such as ipilimumab) and inhibitors of programmed cell death (PD) receptor/ligand interactions ( nivolumab, pembrolizumab, atezolizumab). Currently, immune checkpoint inhibitors are being evaluated alone and in combination with targeted therapies for ATC ( 120 ). MEDULLARY THYROID CANCER Medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) constitutes approximately 2-5% of all thyroid malignancies, but it is responsible for up to 13.4% of all deaths from thyroid cancer ( 30 , 121 ). It is a well-differentiated type of tumor that arises from the parafollicular C cells of the thyroid gland, and therefore it is categorized as a neuroendocrine tumor. In 80% of patients, medullary thyroid cancer occurs sporadically, but in about 20% of patients there is a family history of medullary carcinoma. Familial MTC is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern with nearly complete penetrance. A germline mutation in the RET proto-oncogene, which encodes a transmembrane tyrosine kinase receptor, predisposes individuals to develop hereditary MTC. In the sporadic form, the tumor occurs as a result of a mutation involving only the somatic cells. Sporadic forms of MTC are more common in older patients (mean age at presentation 47 years), while the hereditary forms of MTC are more common in younger patients ( 121 ). The prevalence of MTC is nearly equal in males
