Thyroid Nodules and Cancer in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, pubmed, thyroid cancer, age, disease, risk, nodules, free, years, clinical, elderly, pmc free, pmc


(mean age at presentation 47 years), while the hereditary forms of MTC are more common in younger patients ( 121 ). The prevalence of MTC is nearly equal in males and females. Parafollicular cells secrete calcitonin, and in MTC this protein is greatly elevated and serum level correlates directly with the burden of disease ( 122 ). Other neuroendocrine cell products, including histamine, serotonin, prolactin, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, and prostaglandin, can be elevated in patients with MTC and lead to systemic symptoms such as diarrhea or flushing ( 122 ). In some cases, Cushing’s syndrome may develop as a result of ectopic adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) secretion from the tumor. The typical presentation of MTC is a palpable nodule in the upper part of the thyroid lobe, and the presence of systemic symptoms is almost universally associated with distant metastases ( 37 ). In the retrospective report of 104 patients with MTC by Kebebew et al. , 74% of the patients in the sporadic group presented with a thyroid mass, 16% had local symptoms (dysphagia, dyspnea, or hoarseness), and 10% had systemic symptoms (bone pain, flushing, and/or diarrhea) attributable to the cancer ( 121 ). Within MTC, older age at diagnosis has been associated with a worse prognosis. Kebebew et al. followed patients with MTC for a mean time of 8.6 years and found that advanced age and stage at diagnosis were independent predictors of worse survival ( 121 ). The 5-year survival rates by stage were 100% (stage I), 90% (stage II), 86% (stage III), and 55% (stage IV). The highest survival was seen in female patients under age 45 with MTC confined to the thyroid ( 121 ). Saad et al. similarly reported that patients younger than 40 years old at diagnosis had a significantly better survival rate in MTC ( 122 ). Scopsi et al. reported a worse prognosis in patients with sporadic MTC who had extrathyroidal tumor invasion, distant metastases, or age greater than 60 years at the time of diagnosis ( 123 ). Interestingly, a more recent study that adjusted for baseline age-related mortality in the general population found no significant association with age and prognosis in MTC ( 124 ). This raises similar questions to those posed recently for differentiated thyroid cancer as to whether age truly has an independent role in prognosis for these thyroid cancers apart from the general increase in morbidity and
