Thyroid Nodules and Cancer in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: thyroid, patients, cancer, pubmed, thyroid cancer, age, disease, risk, nodules, free, years, clinical, elderly, pmc free, pmc


those posed recently for differentiated thyroid cancer as to whether age truly has an independent role in prognosis for these thyroid cancers apart from the general increase in morbidity and mortality with aging. Treatment of Medullary Thyroid Cancer The standard treatment for MTC is surgical resection (total thyroidectomy) with regional lymph node dissection, with routine bilateral central neck dissection and consideration of lateral neck dissection in patients with large primary tumors (>1 cm) or pre-operative imaging with involved nodes. Successful complete surgical resection is associated with improved prognosis. In patients with disease restricted to the thyroid gland and without nodal involvement, the risk of recurrence and mortality is very low, compared to those with nodal disease at presentation ( 125 ). Serum calcitonin and CEA levels are trended post-operatively to monitor for residual or recurrent disease, beginning around 2-3 months after surgery. A rise in either tumor marker should prompt imaging to look for recurrent disease. Radioactive iodine is not indicated in the treatment of MTC as parafollicular cells do not express NIS or concentrate iodine. Additionally, thyroid hormone replacement is required following thyroidectomy, with TSH targeted to the normal range rather than suppression ( 126 ). TSH does not stimulate the growth of parafollicular cells. In patients with progressive or metastatic disease not amenable to surgery, tyrosine kinase inhibitors vandetanib and cabozantinib may be used. Vandetanib is an oral inhibitor that targets VEGFR, RET, and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). In the international, randomized controlled phase III ZETA trial of vandetanib 300 mg per day that included over 300 patients with unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic sporadic or hereditary MTC, progression-free survival was significantly greater for patients treated with vandetanib (hazard ratio 0.46, 95% CI 0.31-0.69 versus placebo) ( 127 ). Adverse events occurred more commonly with vandetanib compared to placebo, including diarrhea, nausea, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia, hypertension, and headache. Cabozantinib ( 128 ) is another oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor targeting MET, VEGFR2, and RET signaling pathways. The phase III international, randomized controlled EXAM trial evaluated cabozantinib versus placebo in the treatment of 330 patients with progressive, metastatic MTC, with a primary outcome of progression free survival (PFS). Median PFS was 11.2 months for cabozantinib versus 4.0 months for placebo (hazard ratio, 0.28; 95% CI, 0.19 to 0.40; P <0.001), with benefit seen across all subgroups including age, prior TKI treatment, and RET mutation status (hereditary or sporadic). Response rate
