Edema
KEYWORDS: edema, heart, patients, venous, failure, liver, cause, causes, clinical, sodium, usually, evaluation, obstruction, fluid, history


Edema is swelling of soft tissues due to increased interstitial fluid. The fluid is predominantly water, but protein and cell-rich fluid can accumulate if there is infection or lymphatic obstruction. Edema may be generalized or local (eg, limited to a single extremity or part of an extremity). It sometimes appears abruptly; patients say that an extremity suddenly swells. More often, edema develops insidiously, beginning with weight gain, puffy eyes at awakening in the morning, and tight shoes at the end of the day. Slowly developing edema may become massive before patients seek medical care. Lower Extremity Edema Edema itself causes few symptoms other than occasionally a feeling of tightness or fullness; other symptoms are usually related to the underlying disorder. Patients with edema due to heart failure (a common cause) often have dyspnea during exertion, orthopnea, and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. Patients with edema due to deep venous thrombosis (DVT) often have leg pain. Edema due to extracellular fluid volume expansion is often dependent. Thus, in ambulatory patients, edema is in the feet and lower legs; patients requiring bed rest develop edema in the buttocks, genitals, and posterior thighs. Females who lie on only one side may develop edema in the dependent breast. Lymphatic obstruction causes edema distal to the site of obstruction. Pathophysiology of Edema Edema results from increased movement of fluid from the intravascular to the interstitial space or decreased movement of water from the interstitium into the capillaries or lymphatic vessels. The mechanism involves one or more of the following: Increased capillary hydrostatic pressure Decreased plasma oncotic pressure Increased capillary permeability Obstruction of the lymphatic system As fluid shifts into the interstitial space, intravascular volume is depleted. Intravascular volume depletion activates the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone-vasopressin (ADH) system, resulting in renal sodium retention. By increasing osmolality, renal sodium retention triggers water retention by the kidneys and helps maintain plasma volume. Increased renal sodium retention also may be a primary cause of fluid overload and hence edema. Excessive exogenous sodium intake may also contribute. Less often, edema results from decreased movement of fluid out of the interstitial space into the capillaries due to lack of adequate plasma oncotic pressure, as in nephrotic syndrome, protein-losing enteropathy, liver failure, or starvation. 2/11 Increased capilliary permeability occurs in infections or as the result of toxin or inflammatory damage to the capillary walls. In angioedema, mediators, including mast cell–derived mediators (eg, histamine, leukotrienes, prostaglandins) and bradykinin
