Edema
KEYWORDS: edema, heart, patients, venous, failure, liver, cause, causes, clinical, sodium, usually, evaluation, obstruction, fluid, history


smear sometimes involving the genitals * Most patients with generalized edema require complete blood count (CBC), electrolytes, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), creatinine, liver tests, serum protein measurement, and urinalysis (to check for proteinuria). † Decreased plasma oncotic pressure often triggers secondary sodium and water retention, leading to fluid overload. DVT = deep venous thrombosis; NSAIDs = nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs; PT = prothrombin time; PTT = partial thromboplastin time; S3 = third heart sound; S4 = fourth heart sound. Evaluation of Edema History History of present illness should include location and duration of edema and presence and degree of pain or discomfort. Female patients should be asked whether they are pregnant and whether edema seems related to menstrual periods. Having patients with chronic edema keep a log of weight gain or loss is valuable. Review of systems should include symptoms of causative disorders, including dyspnea during exertion, orthopnea, and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea (heart failure); alcohol or hepatotoxin 7/11 exposure, jaundice, and easy bruising (a liver disorder); malaise and anorexia (cancer or a liver or kidney disorder); and immobilization, extremity injury, or recent surgery (DVT). Past medical history should include any disorders known to cause edema, including heart, liver, and kidney disorders and cancer (including any related surgery or radiation therapy). The history should also include predisposing conditions for these causes, including streptococcal infection, recent viral infection (eg, hepatitis), alcohol use disorder, and hypercoagulable disorders. Medication history should include specific questions about medications known to cause edema (see table Some Causes of Edema). Patients are asked about the amount of sodium used in cooking and at the table. Physical examination The area of edema is identified and examined for extent, warmth, erythema, and tenderness; symmetry or lack of it is noted. Presence and degree of pitting (visible and palpable depressions caused by pressure from the examiner’s fingers on the edematous area, which displaces the interstitial fluid) are noted. In the general examination, the skin is inspected for jaundice, bruising, and spider angiomas (suggesting a liver disorder). Lungs are examined for dullness to percussion, reduced or exaggerated breath sounds, crackles, rhonchi, and a pleural friction rub. The internal jugular vein height, waveform, and reflux are noted. The heart is palpated for thrills, thrust, parasternal lift, and asynchronous abnormal systolic bulge. Auscultation for loud pulmonic component of second heart sound (P2), third (S3) or fourth (S4) heart sounds, murmurs, and pericardial rub or knock
