Edema
KEYWORDS: edema, heart, patients, venous, failure, liver, cause, causes, clinical, sodium, usually, evaluation, obstruction, fluid, history


parasternal lift, and asynchronous abnormal systolic bulge. Auscultation for loud pulmonic component of second heart sound (P2), third (S3) or fourth (S4) heart sounds, murmurs, and pericardial rub or knock is done; all suggest cardiac origin. The abdomen is inspected, palpated, and percussed for ascites, hepatomegaly, and splenomegaly to check for a liver disorder or heart failure. The kidneys are palpated, and the bladder is percussed. An abnormal abdominal mass, if present, should be palpated. Red flags Certain findings raise suspicion of a more serious etiology of edema: Sudden onset Significant pain Shortness of breath Fever History of a heart disorder or an abnormal cardiac examination Hemoptysis, dyspnea, or pleural friction rub Hepatomegaly, jaundice, ascites, splenomegaly, or hematemesis Unilateral leg swelling with tenderness 8/11 Interpretation of findings Potential acute life threats, which typically manifest with sudden onset of focal edema, must be identified. Such a presentation suggests acute DVT, soft-tissue infection, or angioedema. Acute DVT may lead to pulmonary embolism (PE), which can be fatal. Soft-tissue infections range from minor to life threatening, depending on factors that include the infecting organism and the patient’s health. Acute angioedema sometimes progresses to involve the airway, with serious consequences. Dyspnea may occur with edema due to heart failure, DVT if PE has occurred, acute respiratory distress syndrome, or angioedema that involves the airways. Generalized, slowly developing edema suggests a chronic heart, kidney, or liver disorder. Although these disorders can also be life threatening, complications tend to take much longer to develop. These factors and other clinical features help suggest the cause (see table Some Causes of Edema). Testing For most patients with generalized edema, testing should include complete blood count (CBC), serum electrolytes, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), creatinine, liver tests, serum protein, and urinalysis (particularly noting the presence of protein and microscopic hematuria). Other tests should be done based on the suspected cause (see table Some Causes of Edema)—eg, brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) for suspected heart failure or D-dimer for suspected pulmonary embolism. Point-of-care ultrasound (POCUS) can sometimes be useful to evaluate the following: Fluid and volume status (evaluating jugular venous pressure, inferior vena cava, B-lines, pleural effusions) Left ventricular ejection fraction Right ventricular abnormalities (eg, increased right ventricular pressure or size or impaired function) secondary to disorders such as pulmonary embolism or right ventricular failure Patients with isolated lower-extremity swelling should usually have venous obstruction excluded by ultrasound. Treatment of Edema Specific
