REVIEW ARTICLE Vol. 52 (3): e20260121, May - June, 2026
KEYWORDS: infertility, male, guideline, doi, treatment, urol, evidence, semen, esteves, reproductive, male infertility, varicocele, sperm, men, int


relevant findings in The message is universal: male reproductive health is history/exam warranting referral include palpable vari- modifiable, and early engagement can improve fertility cocele, endocrine or sexual dysfunction, symptoms or outcomes. Indeed, spermatogenesis is acutely sensitive signs of genital tract obstruction, suspected genetic ab- Int Braz J Urol. 2026; 52(3): e20260121 | 6 / 28 IBJU | WHO 2025 INFERTILITY GUIDELINE: MALE FOCUS Table 3 - Male-Relevant Recommendations from the 2025 WHO Infertility Guideline Relative to Prevention. Category Recommendation Remarks Information provision For the general population of reproductive Low-cost strategies may include information in digital or paper format strategies or whenever there is opportunity Information adapted to local contexts and audiences, including how to (Conditional recommendation, very low reduce risk factors for infertility, lifestyle modification, age-related fertility certainty of evidence). decline/potential, and timely medical consultation, may increase the likelihood of information uptake and beneficial outcomes. For individuals and couples with infertility, Lifestyle advice may include advice to change diet, alcohol intake, WHO suggests providing low-cost lifestyle smoking, physical activity and/or weight management. advice before and during infertility treatment. (Conditional recommendation, very low certainty of evidence). Risk reduction from WHO recommends that brief advice be This is an existing WHO recommendation for the general population that providers as a routine practice to all tobacco attempting to achieve a pregnancy or with infertility, given the association users accessing any health care settings between infertility and current or previous history of smoking. (Strong Assessment of lifestyle, including the use of tobacco, is part of medical recommendation, moderate certainty of history when evaluating individuals and couples for infertility. evidence). Brief advice is advice to stop using tobacco – usually taking only a few minutes – given to all tobacco users, usually during a routine consultation or interaction. Brief advice should include informing individuals and couples that (i) use of tobacco, particularly smoking, is associated with a higher risk of infertility; (ii) the risk of infertility due to tobacco smoking is higher among women; and (iii) a range of interventions to assist in cessation of tobacco use exist. Brief advice should include the 5As: asking about tobacco use; advising to make a quit attempt; assessing readiness to quit; assisting in making a quit plan; and arranging a follow-up. Advice should be tailored or personalized based on individual circumstances. All adults interested in quitting smoking should be offered or referred to interventions to assist in
