REVIEW ARTICLE Vol. 52 (3): e20260121, May - June, 2026
KEYWORDS: infertility, male, guideline, doi, treatment, urol, evidence, semen, esteves, reproductive, male infertility, varicocele, sperm, men, int


and arranging a follow-up. Advice should be tailored or personalized based on individual circumstances. All adults interested in quitting smoking should be offered or referred to interventions to assist in tobacco cessation as recommended by existing WHO guidelines for preventing tobacco use uptake, promoting tobacco cessation or diagnosing and treating tobacco dependence ( who.int/handle/10665/377825). Risk reduction from Couples and individuals planning or If symptoms of an STI are present, or if infection is confirmed, WHO sexually transmitted attempting to achieve pregnancy who are guideline recommendations on the management of STIs are available infections (STIs) accessing any health care settings should ( be routinely informed about sexually handle/10665/378213) transmitted infections (STIs), including the risk of infertility when STIs are untreated (Good practice statement) Certainty of evidence: high (we are very confident that the true effect lies close to that of the estimate of the effect); moderate (we are moderately confident in the effect estimate: the true effect is likely to be close to the estimate of the effect, but there is a possibility that it is substantially different); low (we have limited confidence in the effect estimate: the true effect may be substantially different from the estimate of the effect); very low (we have very little confidence in the effect estimate: the true effect is likely to be substantially different from the estimate of effect). Good practice statements were made in topics where the Guideline Development Group (GDG) agreed that guidance was necessary, but a review of the evidence was not warranted because the benefits of the practice were unequivocal and other factors (such as equity) would not have an impact. Good practice statements were rooted in the fact that answers were deemed obvious by the GDG. The methodologist guided the development of good practice statements based on the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach. Strong recommendation: For patients (most individuals in this situation would want the recommended course of action and only a small proportion would not. Formal decision aids are not likely to be needed to help individuals make decisions consistent with their values and preferences); for clinicians (most individuals should receive the recommended course of action. Adherence to this recommendation according to the guideline could be used as a quality criterion or performance indicator; for policy-makers (the recommendation can be adopted as policy in most situations); Conditional recommendation: For patients (the majority of individuals in
