REVIEW ARTICLE Vol. 52 (3): e20260121, May - June, 2026
KEYWORDS: infertility, male, guideline, doi, treatment, urol, evidence, semen, esteves, reproductive, male infertility, varicocele, sperm, men, int


must include clinically relevant ob- verge from what basic parameters alone imply. servations that remain the domain of trained clinicians, particularly urologists. This examination often yields Treatment findings that meaningfully alter diagnostic direction. For The WHO treatment recommendations are de- example, a palpable varicocele, absent vas deferens, liberately conservative, reflecting limited evidence and and signs of hypogonadism each require different diag- the need to set minimum standards that are feasible, from semen analysis alone (6, 11, 12, 19, 20, 27, 34, 52-59). with vastly different resources. Only two areas yield spe- cific male-directed recommendations: antioxidants and Semen Analysis varicocele (Table-5). Other domains—such as hormonal Semen analysis remains the cornerstone labo- therapy for idiopathic infertility, advanced sperm func- ratory test of male evaluation in the guideline. Two ex- tion testing, genetic evaluation, ejaculatory dysfunction, plicit recommendations govern its use: If semen param- obstructive azoospermia, or surgical sperm retrieval— Int Braz J Urol. 2026; 52(3): e20260121 | 9 / 28 IBJU | WHO 2025 INFERTILITY GUIDELINE: MALE FOCUS Table 4 - Male-Relevant Recommendations from the 2025 WHO Infertility Guideline Relative to Diagnosis. Category Recommendation Remarks Semen analysis For males (in couples with infertility) with one or more The latest edition of the WHO laboratory manual semen parameters outside the WHO reference ranges, for the examination and WHO suggests repeating the semen analysis after a processing of human semen provides WHO minimum of 11 weeks (Conditional recommendation, very reference ranges for semen parameters and low certainty of evidence). details about the standardized procedures for semen For males (in couples with infertility) with all semen collection and analysis ( parameters within the WHO reference ranges, WHO handle/10665/343208). suggests not repeating the semen analysis (Conditional recommendation, very low certainty of evidence). Diagnosis of WHO suggests making a diagnosis of unexplained NA unexplained infertility in a couple when all the following have infertility occurred: (i) Failure to achieve pregnancy after 12 months of regular unprotected sexual intercourse; (ii) Normal physical examination and medical history in both the male and female; (iii) Presumptive confirmation of ovulation and patent tubes in the female partner: and (iv) Semen parameters that are within the WHO reference ranges in the male partner (Conditional recommendation, very low certainty of evidence). Certainty of evidence and strength of recommendation: see Table 3 legend. NA = not applicable; WHO = World Health Organization are outside the scope of this WHO guideline and are review (66)
