REVIEW ARTICLE Vol. 52 (3): e20260121, May - June, 2026
KEYWORDS: infertility, male, guideline, doi, treatment, urol, evidence, semen, esteves, reproductive, male infertility, varicocele, sperm, men, int


evidence and strength of recommendation: see Table 3 legend. NA = not applicable; WHO = World Health Organization are outside the scope of this WHO guideline and are review (66) and targeted search for randomized controlled covered in detail in specialty clinical practice guidelines trials up to April 2024 evaluating antioxidant supplemen- (6, 18-21, 26, 56). This delineation is intentional, reflecting tation in men with infertility and at least one semen pa- globally applicable guidance. showed considerable heterogeneity in type of antioxidant (e.g., vitamin C, vitamin E, L-carnitine, coenzyme Q10, se- Antioxidant Supplementation lenium, zinc, N-acetylcysteine, and multi-ingredient for- Oxidative stress is recognized as an important mulations), dosing and duration, study populations, and biological mechanism that can impair sperm function outcome measures, with most trials focusing on surrogate (64). Reactive oxygen species (ROS) influence sperm outcomes (semen parameters) rather than clinically mean- membrane integrity, motility, DNA fragmentation, chro- ingful endpoints (pregnancy, live birth). matin compaction, and mitochondrial activity (65). Evi- The guideline therefore issues no recommen- dence from mechanistic studies strongly supports the dation for or against routine antioxidant supplementa- hypothesis that excessive ROS disrupts sperm function tion in infertile men with semen abnormalities (Table-6). and may impair fertilization and early embryo develop- This is not equivalent to stating that “antioxidants do not ment (64, 65). These biological insights have motivated work,” nor is it a statement of insufficient evidence. In- mentation among infertile men. mendation due to the heterogeneity of the evidence and The GDG examined evidence from a systematic the uncertainty around clinically meaningful outcomes. Int Braz J Urol. 2026; 52(3): e20260121 | 10 / 28 IBJU | WHO 2025 INFERTILITY GUIDELINE: MALE FOCUS Table 5 - Male-Relevant Recommendations from the 2025 WHO Infertility Guideline Relative to Treatment. Category Recommendation Remarks Use of antioxidants For males with infertility and one or more semen Optimal nutrition is important during the pre- parameters outside the WHO reference ranges who pregnancy period for the couple; however, the are attempting to achieve pregnancy with or without effects of antioxidant supplements for males with medically assisted reproduction, the WHO infertility specific male-factor pathologies in couples with Guideline Development Group (GDG) did not make a infertility are currently not known. recommendation for or against the use of antioxidant supplements. treatment – suggests surgical or radiological treatment over parameters that are outside the WHO reference treatment vs expectant management (Conditional ranges are more likely to
