REVIEW ARTICLE Vol. 52 (3): e20260121, May - June, 2026
KEYWORDS: infertility, male, guideline, doi, treatment, urol, evidence, semen, esteves, reproductive, male infertility, varicocele, sperm, men, int


the use of antioxidant supplements. treatment – suggests surgical or radiological treatment over parameters that are outside the WHO reference treatment vs expectant management (Conditional ranges are more likely to benefit from receiving expectant recommendation, low certainty of evidence)*. treatment for varicocele, compared to men with management semen parameters within the WHO reference ranges. Varicocele For males with infertility undergoing treatment of When selecting whether to use surgical or treatment – type of varicocele, WHO suggests radiological treatment, consider feasibility, the treatment using either surgical or radiological treatment availability of trained health care providers (Conditional and patient preferences regarding the type of recommendation, very low certainty of evidence)*. treatment procedure. Varicocele surgery For males with infertility undergoing surgical treatment Subinguinal microsurgery is a common surgical – choice of of varicocele, WHO suggests using microscopic surgery varicocelectomy procedure, while other surgical surgical method rather than other surgical procedures (Conditional procedures include non-microscopic open recommendation, very low certainty of evidence)*. approaches (such as inguinal and retroperitoneal) and laparoscopic methods. In settings where the expertise to perform microscopic surgery is not available, other surgical techniques may be used. Varicocele For males with infertility undergoing non-microscopic When selecting whether to use an inguinal surgery – open surgical treatment of varicocele, WHO suggests using or retroperitoneal surgical procedure, approaches either inguinal or retroperitoneal surgical procedures consider feasibility and the availability of (Conditional trained health care providers. recommendation, very low certainty of evidence)*. Certainty of evidence and strength of recommendation: see Table 3 legend. * This recommendation applies to males with varicocele in couples with fertility who are not undergoing treatment with assisted reproductive technology (ART). Int Braz J Urol. 2026; 52(3): e20260121 | 11 / 28 IBJU | WHO 2025 INFERTILITY GUIDELINE: MALE FOCUS Table 6 - Male-Specific WHO Recommendations Mapped to Evidence-to-Decision (EtD) Considerations. Male WHO EtD Consideration Summary of How EtD Informed the Recommendation Recommendation only when one or more and harms value when initial parameters are within reference limits. Avoids harm from parameters are below unnecessary delay, anxiety, and cost. WHO reference ranges; Certainty of Certainty moderate, grounded in long-standing WHO manual methodology do not repeat when all evidence and international laboratory experience. parameters are within reference limits Values and Little variability—patients and clinicians generally prefer to avoid unnecessary preferences tests. Acceptability High global acceptability; aligns with the WHO manual and with EAU guidelines. Costs/resources Reduces costs by minimizing unwarranted repeat testing.
