REVIEW ARTICLE Vol. 52 (3): e20260121, May - June, 2026
KEYWORDS: infertility, male, guideline, doi, treatment, urol, evidence, semen, esteves, reproductive, male infertility, varicocele, sperm, men, int


efforts will require coordinated contributions eral domains remain insufficiently characterized—scien- from reproductive biologists, urologists, andrologists, Int Braz J Urol. 2026; 52(3): e20260121 | 15 / 28 IBJU | WHO 2025 INFERTILITY GUIDELINE: MALE FOCUS Table 8 - Priority Research Areas to Strengthen the Evidence Base for Male Infertility Care. Domain Key Research Priorities Diagnostic Advances • Validate molecular biomarkers (DNA fragmentation, chromatin structure, epigenetic signatures, sperm RNA cargo). • Standardize assays and laboratory methods across settings. • Evaluate clinical utility and cost-effectiveness of expanded sperm testing. Therapeutic • Conduct randomized trials powered for pregnancy and live-birth outcomes for hormonal therapy, Interventions empiric medications, and antioxidants. • Assess which patient subgroups may benefit from targeted treatments. • Compare treatment pathways across resource settings. Oxidative Stress & • Standardize antioxidant formulations and dosing. Antioxidants • Link oxidative-stress biomarkers to reproductive outcomes. • Clarify potential harms (e.g., reductive stress). Varicocele • Evaluate long-term outcomes of different surgical and radiological techniques. Management • Assess effectiveness in subgroups (e.g., borderline semen parameters, elevated sperm DNA Male Preconception • Identify effective strategies for engaging men in lifestyle modification, tobacco cessation, and STI Health prevention. • Assess effectiveness of interventions according in terms of quality of life and pregnancy outcomes • Evaluate implementation models for preconception counseling in diverse settings. Public Health & Health • Characterize barriers to male infertility care globally. Systems • Assess equity, acceptability, and feasibility of male-focused services. • Develop scalable models for integrating male infertility into primary care and STI programs. Dimensions • Develop and validate support interventions tailored to men and couples. & Paternal Biology embryogenesis, and pregnancy outcomes. CONCLUSIONS fiable risk reduction, standardized semen analysis following WHO laboratory manual methods, struc- The 2025 WHO Guideline for the Prevention, Di- tured history and physical examination, and timely agnosis, and Treatment of Infertility marks the first global referral to urologists when abnormalities persist. At framework to address both male and female infertil- the same time, the guideline acknowledges its scope ity within a unified public-health strategy. By defining limits. It is not a specialty practice document—and is minimum standards for prevention, diagnosis, and not intended to replace the more detailed andrology- treatment applicable across all resource settings, the focused guidelines that address condition-specific guideline establishes a framework that underscores evaluation and management. It also highlights major nicians working in male infertility, the guideline pro- targeted treatments, oxidative stress, and the broader vides
