AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


resistant(XDR-TB)ortreatment-intolerant of the results of drug susceptibility testing context of individual patient values and or nonresponsive MDR-TB; however, the (DST), is focused on both curing the preferences. Worthy of emphasis, the preparation and completion of these individual patient and minimizing the committee recommends that only drugs to guidelines predated this approval (2). For transmissionofMycobacteriumtuberculosis which the patient’s M. tuberculosis isolate each drug or drug class, the following to other persons. Thus, effective treatment has documented, or high likelihood of, Population, Intervention, Comparator, and of TB has benefits for both the individual susceptibility be included in an effective Outcomes (PICO) question was addressed: patient and the community in which the treatment regimen, noted as an ungraded In patients with MDR-TB, are outcomes patient resides. However, notable good practice statement, and consistent safelyimprovedwhenregimensincludethe complexities need to be addressed to with ongoing stewardship efforts for the following individual drugs or drug classes successfully treat disease resulting from optimaluseofantibiotics(1).Drugsknown compared with regimens that do not drug-resistant M. tuberculosis isolates to be ineffective on the basis of in vitro include them? compared with treatment of drug- growth-based or molecular DST should The recommendations in this practice susceptibleTBdisease,includingadditional not be used. The following alphabetically guideline were supported by scientific molecular and phenotypic diagnostic tests listed drugs and drug classes were evidence, including results of a propensity to determine drug susceptibility; the use of considered for inclusion in treatment score (PS)-matched individual patient data second-line drugs, which have toxicities regimens: amoxicillin/clavulanate, meta-analyses (IPDMA)conducted using a that increase harms that must be balanced bedaquiline, carbapenem with database of more than 12,000 patient with their benefits; and prolonged clavulanic acid, clofazimine, cycloserine, records from 25 countries in support of treatment durations. The new delamanid, ethambutol, ethionamide, these guidelines (see APPENDIX A: recommendations provided in this fluoroquinolones, injectable agents, METHODOLOGYintheonlinesupplement)(3). guideline are for the treatment of linezolid,macrolides,p-aminosalicylicacid, WeusedtheGradingofRecommendations, drug-resistant TB (DR-TB), including and pyrazinamide. Of note, pretomanid in Assessment, Development,and Evaluation multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB) and combinationwithbedaquilineandlinezolid (GRADE)approachto appraisethequality isoniazid-resistant TB, and are intended to was recently approved by U.S. Food and of evidence andto formulate, write, and help providers identify the therapeutic Drug Administration (FDA) for the grademostrecommendations (4, 5). e94 American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine Volume 200 Number 10|November 15 2019 AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY DOCUMENTS Although publisheddata oncosts arenoted Table1. QuestionsRegardingtheTreatmentofDrug-ResistantTuberculosisSelected intheseguidelines, thecommittee did not bytheGuideline WritingCommittee conductformalcost-effectivenessanalysesof thetreatmentsreviewedto determinea NumberofeffectivedrugsinaregimenforMDR-TB recommendation. Thetreatment of DR-TB 1.
