AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


MDR-TB versus recommendation for the conduct of 12,030 patients, in 50 studies, from 25 randomized clinical trials evaluating following with observation alone countries with confirmed pulmonary (conditional recommendation, the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of RR-TB was conducted for this guideline very low certainty in the evidence). modified shorter-course regimens that (3). Given the paucity of high-quality We suggest 6 to 12 months of include newer oral agents, exclude randomized controlled trials conducted in treatment with a later-generation injectables, and include drugs for fluoroquinolonealoneorwithasecond DR-TB, individual data from observational which susceptibility is documented or studies represent the next best level of drug,onthebasisofdrugsusceptibility highly likely. evidence for analyses. Nonetheless, the of the source-case M. tuberculosis writingcommitteenotedthatobservational Fortheroleofsurgeryinthetreatment isolate. On the basis of evidence of data are prone to bias and confounding. of MDR-TB: increased toxicity, adverse events, and The 21 PICO questions and associated discontinuations, pyrazinamide should 21. We suggest elective partial lung recommendations are summarized below, not be routinely used as the second resection (e.g., lobectomy or wedge all appraised using GRADE methodology drug. resection),ratherthanmedicaltherapy (see APPENDIX B). Questions were selected receiving antimicrobial-based therapy recommendations for treatment of MDR- practice, as determined by the guideline (conditional recommendation, very TB and for treatment of isoniazid-resistant panel, expert advisors, and patient low certainty in the evidence). The TB. On the basis of the evidence review advocates. The implications of the would be beneficial for patients for strategy tool for building a treatment strong, for patients, clinicians, and policy by bacteriological and radiographic Additional detailed and referenced basis of the GRADE methodology data,suggestastrongriskoftreatment information on treatment of MDR-TB in framework, all recommendations in these failure or relapse with medical therapy special situations (children, pregnant guidelines are based on very low certainty alone. women, and HIV-infected patients), in the evidence. The writing committee 22. We suggest medical therapy alone, approachestotreatmentmonitoring,theuse selected death, treatment success, and rather than including elective total of case management and directly observed serious adverse effects as the endpoints of lung resection (pneumonectomy), for therapy, the role of therapeutic drug critical importance on which to generate adults with MDR-TB receiving monitoring, and key research priorities are recommendations. Our meta-analytic antimicrobial therapy (conditional provided below. approaches included PS matching to e98 American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine Volume 200 Number 10|November 15 2019 AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY DOCUMENTS reduce confounding (on the basis of consultation with an expert in TB when Resistance
