AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


resistance) first-line drugs. XDR-TB isa subsetof resistance is heightened for patients from (14), using that drug in a regimen will MDR-TB with additional resistance to a areas of the world with at least a moderate increase the risk for poor treatment fluoroquinoloneandasecond-lineinjectable incidence of TB in general (>20/100,000) outcomes, and the isolate will eventually agent. Because XDR-TB evolves from and a high primary MDR-TB prevalence exhibit 100% resistance to the drug. Drugs MDR-TB in twosteps,theterm “pre–XDR- (>2%) (12). Individuals who have or should be selected based on their efficacy TB” was introduced to identify MDR-TB recently had close contact with a patient andthelikelihoodthatpatientswillbeable withadditionalresistance toeitheronebut withinfectiousDR-TB,especiallywhenthe totoleratethemwithoutsignificanttoxicity. not both ofthese classes of drugs. Inthese contact is a young child or has HIV Treatment response is monitored clinically guidelines,wealsoproviderecommendations infection, are at risk of developing DR-TB. (decreaseincoughandsystemicsymptoms forthe treatment ofisoniazid-resistantTB. Molecular methods, and more recently and increase in weight), radiographically, whole-genome sequencing (WGS), are and bacteriologically (15–18). If sputum increasingly available and can provide cultures remain positive after 3 months of Good Practices for Treating information on resistance to all first-line treatment, or if there is bacteriological DR-TB and many second-line drugs. Many public reversion from negative to positive at any Thefundamentals of TBcare, regardless of tests, and WGS is available in selected shouldbeaskedabouttheclinicalresponse the treatment selected, rest on ensuring laboratories. These tests can be used to at each visit and weight recorded monthly. timely diagnosis and initiation of guide initial therapeutic decisions and Monthly cultures help to identify early appropriate therapy, with ongoing support contribute to population-level control of evidenceoffailure(19).Mostpersonshave and management to achieve successful DR-TB. Providers should be familiar with difficulty taking one or more of the drugs treatment completion and cure. The phenotypic and genotypic laboratory used to treat MDR-TB. Patients should be responsibilityforsuccessfultreatmentofTB services available in their locale. In the educated about adverse effects, and all is placed primarily on the provider or United States, CDC’s Division of adverse effects should be investigated and program initiating therapy rather than on Tuberculosis Elimination Laboratory ameliorated. Some adverse effects are the section on case management below, M. tuberculosis ( damage to organ systems and can be requires the involvement of the patient in gov/tb/topic/laboratory/default.htm). managed with symptom-specific ancillary decision-making. We recommend seeking CDC’s Molecular Detection of Drug medication and supportive care. Nausea American Thoracic Society Documents e99 AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY DOCUMENTS withvomitingiscommonandisnotalways role in this regard (11, 23). Infection
