AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


We recommend seeking CDC’s Molecular Detection of Drug medication and supportive care. Nausea American Thoracic Society Documents e99 AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY DOCUMENTS withvomitingiscommonandisnotalways role in this regard (11, 23). Infection examinations required to assess a patient’s an indication to discontinue therapy control measures such as administrative response to treatment. Case management permanently. New-onset vomiting may and environmental controls, and personal interventions that have demonstrated indicate liver toxicity or, in children protective equipment, listed in order of favorableoutcomesincludetheprovisionof especially,increasedintracranialpressure.If priority, are important for preventing the patienteducationandcounselingrelatedto drug-induced liver toxicity (and increased transmission of M. tuberculosis regardless diagnosis,treatment,andadherence,aswell intracranialpressure)isexcluded,vomiting of drug susceptibility. Every healthcare as the use of treatment adherence can be managed by changing dosing facilityshouldhavethesemeasuresinplace interventions alongside suitable patient- schedule, giving medications with a small per CDC guidelines (27). Furthermore, centered administration options. For snack (noting that this may affect patients should be educated about the example, home or community-based DOT plasma concentrations of the drug), or importance of infection control measures, is shown to be preferred and associated premedicating adult patients with an such as the value of good ventilation, open withgreaterlikelihoodoftreatmentsuccess QT interval) before the dose. Patients may children ,5 years of age and or self-administered therapy (11, 39). note fatigue or describe myalgia or immunocompromised individuals (21). Enhancing treatment completion through arthralgia, but these symptoms are not the use of patient-centered case typically treatment limiting. Although CaseManagement forDR-TB management strategies, including DOT, low-grade adverse effects can resolve Casemanagementisacollaborativeprocess also aims to reduce risk of acquisition of gradually over time, recognizing the that entails engaging with patients; drug resistance, which aligns with negative impact on patient’s quality of life, comprehensively assessing, monitoring, international efforts in antibiotic all adverse effects must be addressed and attending to patients’ physical, stewardship (1). Recent WHO guidelines diligently. The Curry International TB psychological, social, material, and evaluated various adherence interventions Center’s guides, Drug Resistant TB: informational needs; care planning; and outcomes of TB treatment through a Clinician’s Survival Guide and the Nursing medication management; facilitating access systematic review of clinical trials and Guide for Managing Side Effects to Drug- to services; and functioning as patient observationalstudies,identifyingdatafrom Resistant TB Treatment, in addition to the advocate/agent (28–30). Commonly, case 129 studies for quantitative analysis World Health Organization (WHO) management is used in community and published through 2018 (39). Another companion handbook, are good resources publichealthsettingstocoordinateservices meta-analysis of 22 randomized controlled to assist in evaluation and
