AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


Health Organization (WHO) management is used in community and published through 2018 (39). Another companion handbook, are good resources publichealthsettingstocoordinateservices meta-analysis of 22 randomized controlled to assist in evaluation and management of for patients with chronic and complex trials of DOT and other interventions to quality, cost-effective outcomes. The increasesincurewithDOT(18%)andwith InfectionControl andDR-TB practiceofcasemanagementhaslongbeen patient education and counseling (16%). Three main strategies will reduce the considered an important component of Comparedwiththecomplementarygroups, transmission of DR-TB: rapid diagnosis, careforpatientswithTB(20,31,32),anda losstofollow-upwas49%lowerwithDOT, prompt appropriate treatment, and patient-centered(orfamily-centeredincase 26% lower with financial incentives, and improved airborne infection control of children) approach is preferred (7, 11, 13% lower with patient education and (11, 13, 20, 21). Rapid molecular DST and 33). Patient-centered case management counseling. However, there was no conventional phenotypic culture-based helps patients understand their significant reduction in mortality (40). DST are almost universally available in the diagnosis and treatment and participate The use of video-enabled electronic United States, Europe, and low-incidence, in treatment selection and promotes devices to conduct DOT is expanding high-resource countries (22). Targeted communication about factors that matter rapidly (41, 42). Electronic methods for active case finding combined with rapid to the patient (33–35). Importantly, a DOT have the potential to improve TB diagnostics leading to effective therapy is a patient-centered approach includes treatment outcomes and extend public Treatmentdelayshavebeenassociated potential barriers to care and the selection face-to-face DOT is not feasible. Pilot with increased transmission. A systematic of strategies and interventions to address studies have reported that patients find reviewandmeta-analysislookingatpatient- and minimize these barriers (7, 11, 33, electronic methods for DOT to be both related risk factors for transmission of M. 35–37). acceptable and more convenient than tuberculosis found that treatment initiation Case management tools for drug- traditional in-person DOT. These studies delays of 28 to 30 days were significantly resistant TB include a drug-o-gram, which also reported good adherence, fewer contacts (25). Effective therapy renders alignstestresultswithtreatment,aswellas among study participants (43–46). Further patients with TB, even those with DR-TB, laboratory, bacteriology, and other toxicity evidenceisneededtovalidateelectronically rapidly noninfectious (24, 26). The rapid monitoring flow sheets. This format is a observed therapy under more diverse setting of MDR-TB makes outpatient parameters being tracked (16, 38). A patient subgroups, including children, and therapy possible, but directly observed monitoring checklist or care plan can also todeterminetowhatdegreethesemethods therapy (DOT) applied through patient- help the case manager ensure timely drug impact treatment outcomes for patients centered approaches plays
