AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


directly observed monitoring checklist or care plan can also todeterminetowhatdegreethesemethods therapy (DOT) applied through patient- help the case manager ensure timely drug impact treatment outcomes for patients centered approaches plays an important toxicity monitoring and provision of with DR-TB (39, 47–49). e100 American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine Volume 200 Number 10|November 15 2019 AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY DOCUMENTS Treatment of MDR-TB, treatment is graded as a conditional susceptibilityand counted clofazimine, Number of Drugs, and recommendationwithverylowcertaintyin linezolid, carbapenems,bedaquiline, Duration of Treatment theestimatesofeffect(7).Ofnote,bothour anddelamanid—if susceptible,orno Phases guideline committee and the 2019 WHO DST for thatdrug. Wedid not count guidelines promote the use of newer or amoxicillin/clavulanate (inthe absence ofa NumberofDrugsintheRegimen repurposedoralagentswithgreaterefficacy carbapenem)and macrolidesas effective and deemphasize the use of injectable drugs (see PICOQuestions 4 and 15). agents(7).Giventhesechangesandthatan The intensivephase was defined by the PICO Question1: Should patients with MDR-TB be prescribed five effective injectable drug is no longer obligatory, the use of an injectable agent (other than intensive phase can no longer be defined imipenem–cilastatin or meropenem). drugs versus more or fewer agents by the inclusion of injectables. In this Culture conversion was not an outcome during the intensive and continuation phases of treatment? guideline, we define the intensive phase measure. Instead,the analysis assessed the tobetheinitiationphaseoftreatmentwith associationofthe numberofpossibly Recommendation 1a: We suggest at least five effective drugs. These effectivedrugs includedinthe first 2 weeks using at least five drugs in the recommendations do not apply to the ofthe intensive phasewith the two final intensive phaseof treatment of MDR- WHO-endorsed shorter-course 9- to treatmentoutcomes: 1) “treatment success,” TB (conditional recommendation, 12-month (Bangladesh) regimen, which whichincludesboth cureandtreatment very low certainty of evidence). combinessevendrugsfor4monthsoruntil completed;and2) mortality. For the Recommendation 1b: We suggest sputumsmearconversion,whicheveristhe intensivephaseoftreatment,finaltreatment using at least four drugs in the longerperiod,followedbyfourdrugsinthe outcomeswere compared between those continuation phase of treatment continuation phase (23). treatedwithfiveormore(n=2,527)effective of MDR-TB (conditional Summaryoftheevidence. Procedures drugs andthosetreated with three orfour recommendation,verylowcertaintyof andmethodologytoassembleandrankthe effectivedrugs (n=5,923). evidence). certainty in the evidence are reported in Benefits. In our PS-matched IPDMA, APPENDIX A, with evidence profiles for using zero to two effective drugs as the PICOquestionsreportedinAPPENDIXB.For reference value, treatment success was Up until the recent 2019 WHO the analysis of number of effective drugs, most likely with regimens for MDR-TB ConsolidatedGuidelinesonDrug-Resistant we counted drugs with published evidence containing five effective drugs in the Tuberculosis Treatment (7), WHO has from randomized trials of effectiveness (3). intensive phase (Table 3). Mortality was recommended at least five
