AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


Harms. The recommendation places a AfricanNationalDepartmentofHealthalso NCT02754765). The effect of duration of higher value on reduced morbidity and has endorsed replacingthe injectable agents individual drugs in the intensive phase on greatertreatmentsuccessthanontheasyet intheshorter-courseMDR-TBtreatment cultureconversionaswellastreatmentcure unmeasuredavoidanceofthesummativeor regimeninadults andchildren.12years without relapse should be explored (52). synergistic toxicity across drugs in the of agewith bedaquiline, onthe basis of a treatment regimen. retrospective observational study of DurationofIntensive and Additional considerations. Each drug improvedmortalitywithaddingbedaquiline ContinuationPhasesinTreating was counted as equivalent in effectiveness, (50). Inconjunction, experts fromthe MDR-TB representingtheaverageeffectivenessofthe SentinelProjectonPediatricDrug-Resistant Treatment of both drug-susceptible and most widely used MDR-TB drugs, for the Tuberculosis ( MDR-TB has typically been divided across purposeofadjustingforthenumberofother havealso called for replacing the injectable effective drugs in the regimen. A regimen drugin children ,12yearsofage with an PICO Question2: Should patients with composition approach with suggested alternative effectivedrug(51). MDR-TB undergoing intensive-phase ranking of drugs is provided in the section Conclusions. Atleastfivedrugsshouldbe treatment be treated for >6 months BUILDING A TREATMENT REGIMEN FOR MDR- usedintheintensivephaseoftreatmentandfour aftercultureconversionor,6months TB. The smallest number of drugs to drugsinthecontinuationphaseoftreatmentof after culture conversion? achieve sputum conversion and ensure a MDR-TB(conditionalrecommendation,very Recommendation 2: In patients with cure without relapse minimizes problems lowcertaintyofevidence).Drugsofpooror MDR-TB, we suggest an intensive- with drug–drug interactions, reduces doubtfulefficacyshouldnotbeaddedtoa phase duration of treatment of adverse effects, and is cost effective. regimenpurelytoensurethattherecommended between 5 and 7 months after Injectabledrugsareproblematicintermsof numberofdrugsisobtained. culture conversion (conditional route of administration, patient preference, Research needs. Randomized recommendation,verylowcertaintyof significant adverse effects such as hearing controlled trials with fewer but more evidence). loss or vertigo, and costs of administration effective and safer drugs should be e102 American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine Volume 200 Number 10|November 15 2019 AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY DOCUMENTS twophases,withaninitial“intensive”phase evidencebaseforourrecommendation.Our proportionaltoduration ofintensive that contains more drugs than the analysesandrecommendationsforthe phase, suggesting that the tendency in subsequent “continuation” phase. For durationofintensiveandcontinuationphases theincluded studieswas totreat for a MDR-TB, this intensive phase has oftherapyareanchoredtothetimingof total intensive-phasedurationof 5 to historically been characterized by the cultureconversion,asthisapproachfactorsin 8 months. use of an aminoglycoside (amikacin thattreatmentresponsemayvarybypatient, Benefits. The patients who received or kanamycin) or a polypeptide resistancepatterns,andregimencomposition treatment for 5.01 to 7 months after (capreomycin) delivered parenterally (53). andpotency,amongotherfactors. conversion experienced a 3.3-fold increase Thisapproachhasbeenintendedtoprovide Summaryoftheevidence. Procedures inadjustedoddsoftreatmentsuccess(95% greaterbactericidalactivityduringthetime andmethodologytoassembleandrankthe confidenceinterval[CI],2.1–5.2)compared when the bacillary burden is highest and certainty in the evidence are reported in with the reference group (0–1.0 months of reducing the number of drugs in the APPENDIX A, with evidence profiles for intensive phase after conversion). Some
