AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


the evidence are reported in with the reference group (0–1.0 months of reducing the number of drugs in the APPENDIX A, with evidence profiles for intensive phase after conversion). Some continuation phase to reduce risk of PICO questions reported in APPENDIX B. variability was observed in distribution of toxicity and intolerability caused by the The association between treatment intensive-phase duration after culture multidrug regimen at a phase when duration of the intensive phase (defined by conversion by baseline characteristics: the microbial burden has diminished. The the use of an injectable agent) after culture ,10.0% of patients who received longer 6-monthdurationofbedaquilinetreatment, conversion and outcomes (success, failure, durations of intensive phase were HIV- in part, was developed by analogy, and relapse) was examined among 4,122 coinfected,comparedwith.15%inthe0.0 clinical trials are underway to determine (49.3%) subjects from 29 studies who to 3.0 month interval groups. Number of whether this drug may replace hadsufficientinformationtobeincludedin (effective) drugs was greater in longer aminoglycosides in terms of an initial this analysis (3). This total reflected durations than in shorter. intensive phase of treatment. The duration exclusion of studies without a reported Patients with MDR-TB who received of the intensive phase has never been intensive-phase duration (n=942 [11.3%] 5.01 to 7.0 months of intensive-phase examined through a randomized, patients) or time to culture conversion treatment after conversion had the highest defined by a combination of practicality, (11.4%)patientsintheincludedstudiesbut analysis; although other, shorter intervals experts,and,mostrecently,anIPDMAthat to conversion was not known. Patients <1.0 month of postconversion treatment, resulted in the WHO practice guideline taking the 9- to 12-month standardized the benefits of 5 to 7 months of treatment recommendationsof2011thatanintensive shorter-course regimen were excluded (see after conversion were more pronounced phaseofatleast8months’durationbeused PICO Question 18). An additional 464 (Table 6). The effect estimates were (54).Thisrepresentedadeparturefromthe (5.0%)patientswereexcludedforconversion also better for subgroups of MDR prior recommendations in 2008 that the after the end ofthe intensive phaseorafter only (aOR, 2.0; 95% CI, 1.1–3.4) and injectable agent should be continued for at 14.3months,orfor an intensivephase pre-XDR (aOR, 1.5; 95% CI, 0.6–3.7) least 6 months and at least 4 months after exceeding24.3 months.Among the4,122 subgroups. the patient first becomes and remains patients included,3,303 (80.1%) had MDR- smear or culture negative (55). This is TBwithoutresistancetofluoroquinoloneor similartocurrentexpertguidanceprovided second-lineinjectable. The remainder had Harms bytheCurryInternationalTBCenterDrug pre-or XDR-TB. Toreflect meaningful Detailed data on duration-related toxicities Resistant TB: Clinician’s Survival Guide, variations inthe duration ofthe intensive werenotavailablethroughourPS-matched least 6 months beyond culture conversion wereconducted:stratawere0to1.0months, observations
