AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


nonreplicating and actively replicating include bedaquiline? mycobacteria, through ATP synthase inhibition, and has bactericidal and Recommendation 5: We recommend including bedaquiline in a regimen for the sterilizing activity in the murine model of treatment of patients with MDR-TB (strong recommendation, very low certainty in TB infection (73). No cross-resistance has theevidence).Ourrecommendationfortheuseofbedaquilineisstrongdespitevery lowcertaintyintheevidencebecauseweviewedthesignificantreductioninmortality, been found between bedaquiline and the following: isoniazid, rifampin, ethambutol, improvedtreatmentsuccess,andrelativelyfewadverseeffectsassociatedwithMDR- pyrazinamide, streptomycin, amikacin, or TB treatment including bedaquiline (compared with no bedaquiline) as having a particularly favorable balance of benefits over harms. moxifloxacin. There have been a few reportsofcross-resistancewithclofazimine e106 American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine Volume 200 Number 10|November 15 2019 AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY DOCUMENTS (74,75).Bedaquilineiscustomarilyusedas Arecentlargeprogram-basedobservational Harms. In a review of cases treated part of combination therapy (minimum multinational study confirmed a high with bedaquiline, only 44 of 1,266 (3.5%) four-drug therapy) for adults aged >18 treatment success rate (76.9%) with cases with information available yearswithadiagnosisofpulmonaryMDR- bedaquiline-containing regimens, with a discontinuedbedaquilinebecauseofadverse TB when an effective treatment regimen low proportion (5.8%) of interruptions events. Only 8 of 875 (0.9%) discontinued cannot otherwise be provided (e.g., owing to adverse events (80). In our bedaquiline because of QT interval mycobacterial isolates show a complicated IPDMA, using PS-matched pairs prolongation (two restarted the drug after drugresistancepattern,drugintolerance,or comparing the effects of bedaquiline to resolution of the acute episode without drug–drug interactions) (76). The thoseofclofazimine,statisticallysignificant further problems) (81). recommended dose of bedaquiline for the differencesforsuccessversusfailure/relapse Additional considerations. When treatmentofpulmonaryMDR-TBinadults favoring bedaquiline use were observed bedaquilineisincludedintheregimen,most is400mgadministeredorallyoncedailyfor (aOR, 2.1; 95% CI, 1.1–4.1) (using .170 expertsobtainECGsaftertheinitial2weeks 2 weeks, followed by 200 mg administered PS-matched pairs), but statistically oftherapyandthenatmonthlyintervalsto orally three times weekly, for an entire significant findings were not observed in monitor for QT interval prolongation. treatmentdurationof24weeks(72,76–78). mortality or when restricting analyses to Serum electrolytes, including calcium, Bedaquilinehasrecentlyhasbeenidentified high-income countries. PS-matched pairs magnesium, and potassium, are also as the key drug in assembling an all-oral, analyses comparing the effects of various monitored. injectable-free drug regimen in South combinations of drugs used with The2013CDCguidelinesontheuseof Africa (79). bedaquiline all noted improved outcomes. bedaquiline note that there is insufficient Summaryoftheevidence. Procedures Whencomparisonsofeffectsofbedaquiline evidence to provide guidance on theuse of andmethodologytoassembleandrankthe and linezolid with those of no bedaquiline bedaquiline in children but thatits use can certaintyintheevidencearereportedin or linezolid were performed, combination beconsideredonacase-by-casebasisgiven APPENDIXA,withevidenceprofilesforPICO of bedaquiline and linezolid was associated the high mortality and limited treatment questionsreportedinAPPENDIXB.OurPS- with an aOR of 2.7 (95% CI, 1.5–4.9) for
