AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


(hazardratio[HR],0.35;95%CI,0.28–0.46) bedaquiline with other agents. Studies regimens were included and when and XDR-TB (HR, 0.26; 95% CI, underwayareevaluatingtheuseof comparingonlypatientswithXDR-TBwho 0.18–0.38) compared with standard bedaquilinetogetherwithlinezolid, wereandwerenottreatedwithbedaquiline. regimens (50). clofazimine,ornitroimidazoles American Thoracic Society Documents e107 AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY DOCUMENTS (i.e.,pretomanidanddelamanid).Researchis observational studies) (23, 65–67, 87–92). access through an indwelling catheter, alsoneededonthesafety,tolerability,and The reviewed evidence showed that there which carries risks of infection, efficacyofbedaquiline-basedshorter-course was concomitant use of linezolid and thrombosis, and thromboembolism. Data regimensaswellasontheuseofbedaquiline bedaquiline in large proportions of the ontheuseofacarbapenemcombinedwith fordurations.24 weeks,anapproach patient population receiving carbapenems, amoxicillin–clavulanate in children are currentlyconsideredwheneffectivetreatment suggestive of confounding, which was lacking—only two adolescents are cannototherwisebeprovided(71,84). considered in the review of the efficacy included in one review (65). However, Finally,researchisurgentlyneededonthe results. efficacy has been shown in adults, and riskfactorsandanyinterventions(e.g.,the Benefits. In our PS-matched IPDMA, both carbapenems and amoxicillin– selectionofcompaniondrugs)thatinfluence inclusion of carbapenems in the treatment clavulanate have been used safely in acquisitionofbedaquilineresistance. regimen had no effect on the risk of children for other purposes (although death (aOR, 1.0; 95% CI, 0.5–1.7) or there are no long-term treatment culture conversion (aOR, 2.3; 95% CI, safety data in young children); therefore, CarbapenemswithClavulanic Acid 0.8–6.9). However, treatment success was this combination could be used in The combination of carbapenems and more likely among patients treated with children with MDR-TB where there is clavulanate, a b-lactamase inhibitor, has regimens including a carbapenem no other option to build an effective been shown to have in vitro bactericidal comparedwiththosetreatedwithregimens regimen. activity (65, 85, 86). As clavulanate is notincludingacarbapenem(aOR,4.0;95% Conclusions. In our PS-matched not available by itself, the combination CI, 1.7–9.1). IPDMA, inclusion of carbapenems with drug amoxicillin–clavulanate must be Harms. In our meta-analysis, the rate clavulanic acid was associated with an given with the carbapenems. Carbapenems of treatment discontinuation due to an increase in treatment success when have been used primarily for MDR and adverse event was lower among patients compared with the control group not XDR TB, and a recent systematic review treated with regimens including a receivingcarbapenemswithclavulanicacid. found that carbapenems are safe and carbapenem than those treated with Carbapenems with clavulanic acid can be likely to be effective (65). Carbapenem regimens not including a carbapenem, included in a regimen to achieve a total of drugs have been recently included in althoughthisdifferencewasnotstatistically five effective drugs for the treatment of WHO guidelines for the treatment of significant (relative risk, 0.82; 95% CI, patients with MDR-TB. DR-TB (23). 0.23–2.94). In the published literature,
