AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


althoughthisdifferencewasnotstatistically five effective drugs for the treatment of WHO guidelines for the treatment of significant (relative risk, 0.82; 95% CI, patients with MDR-TB. DR-TB (23). 0.23–2.94). In the published literature, Research needs. Randomized, Summaryoftheevidence. Procedures treatment discontinuation due to adverse controlled clinical trials that confirm the andmethodologytoassembleandrankthe events has been reported in 0 to 3% of role of carbapenems used for different certainty in the evidence are reported in patients, with minor adverse events durations of time within different APPENDIX A, with evidence profiles for occurring in 5% to 6% of patients (65). regimens are needed. A comparative PICO questions reported in APPENDIX B. Additional considerations. Of note, evaluation of the safety, tolerability, Our PS-matched IPDMA compared death, clavulanic acid is only available as a and efficacy of the different agents is treatment success, and culture conversion coformulationwithamoxicillin.Therefore, also necessary. Because of the high cost among 169 individuals who received amoxicillin–clavulanate must be given to of these drugs, economic analyses will carbapenems to 9,535 individuals from achieveadoseof125mgoftheclavulanate also be useful (65). The development centers that did not use any of the drugs with each dose of carbapenem daily, of oral formulations of carbapenems previouslyclassifiedbyWHOas“Group5” whenever carbapenems are included in an is underway, which, if proven safe and drugs (3). In addition, we considered MDR-TB regimen. DST is currently not effective, would enhance feasibility of adverse events reported in a recent review available for carbapenems. When used, using these agents significantly. (65), IPDMA, and systematic review that imipenem–cilastatin/clavulanate or Additional advances in rapid DST summarize the available evidence on meropenem/clavulanate have been for carbapenems would enhance carbapenems from five primary studies (all administered intravenously in a hospital potential scale-up of use for this class setting, with multiple injections required of drugs. PICO Question6—Carbapenems with daily (67). There is no clear evidence of clavulanic acid: In patients with MDR- whether imipenem–cilastatin or TB, are outcomes safely improved meropenem is more efficacious (66). PICO Question7—Clofazimine: In when regimens include carbapenems Ertapenem belongs to the same family patients with MDR-TB, are outcomes with clavulanic acid compared with (65, 93); because of its longer half-lifeand safely improved when regimens regimens that do not include them? the possibility to administer it once a include clofazimine compared with Recommendation 6: We suggest ertapenem may be useful when a patient clofazimine? including a carbapenem (always to be used with amoxicillin–clavulanicacid) treated with meropenem or Recommendation 7: We suggest
