AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


vestibular, resulting in reduced by adding lidocaine to amikacin amikacin-treated patients had increased loss of balance, or cochlear, resulting in injections without interference of treatment success (aOR, 2.0; 95% CI, hearingloss.Becausethesedrugsdateback pharmacokinetics (183). Dose range of 1.5–2.6). In the subgroup with quinolone to the early years of antibiotic discovery amikacin should be 15 to 20 mg/kg as resistance, amikacin was also associated and development, there is vast published single daily dose. withincreasedtreatmentsuccess(aOR,3.0; experience with their toxicities. In the Additional considerations. When 1.6–5.6). Among patients with XDR-TB, treatmentofMDR-TB,theriskoftoxicityis injectables are used, serum creatinine, deaths (aOR, 0.4; 95% CI, 0.2–0.8). In treatmentismanymonths.Ototoxicitymay assessment for vertigo and tinnitus, high- contrast, neither kanamycin nor be severe and irreversible but with close quality audiometry (including hearing capreomycin was associated with any monitoringcanbeminimizedorprevented. frequency of 6,000–8,000 Hz, as high- benefitontreatmentsuccessordeathversus Nephrotoxicity is often reversible when frequencyhearinglossisseeninitially),and kanamycin treatment was associated with appropriately; however, ototoxicity can at least monthly, or more frequently if fewer treatment successes (aOR, 0.5; 95% progress even after the drug is stopped. adverse effects occur. Limited data suggest CI, 0.4–0.6). Capreomycin was associated Monitoring (measuring drug levels; there may be a genetic predisposition for with an increased risk of death (aOR, 1.4; monthly high-quality audiometry, hearing loss associated with specific 95%CI,1.1–1.7).InXDR-TB,capreomycin electrolytes, and serum creatinine) and mitochondrial gene mutations (184). wasassociatedwithincreaseddeaths(aOR, skilledmanagementcanpreventormitigate Although routine genetic testing is not 3.4; 95% CI, 2.7–4.3) when compared with these effects and are part of standard currentlysuggested,theprovidershouldbe regimens with no injectable drug. practice for MDR-TB experts. Risk of aware of these genetic mutations and the In a pediatric IPDMA, the use of hearing loss increases with increasing risks of ototoxicity (185, 186). Because second-line injectable agents (amikacin, durationoftreatment.Foraminoglycosides bactericidal activity is concentration kanamycin, capreomycin) in children in general, the estimated frequency of dependent,highpeaklevelsandsingledaily with confirmed MDR-TB was associated nephrotoxicity is 5% to 15% and of dosing are preferred to divided doses. withmoretreatmentsuccesscomparedwith ototoxicity2%to14%,including2%to10% Becauseofthepostantibioticeffect,toxicity those not receiving second-line injectable cochlearand3%to14%vestibular(155).In can be minimized by allowing trough P=0.041) (113). However, a high between 1975 and 1982 and totaling detectable levels for many hours. Some proportion of children with less-severe z10,000patients,theincidenceofamikacin experts take advantage of these American Thoracic Society Documents e115 AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY DOCUMENTS pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic Linezolid Summaryoftheevidence. Linezolid properties with thrice-weekly dosing, Linezolid is an oxazolidinone antibiotic wasusedinregimensforMDR-andXDR- especially after conversion of cultures to that inhibits bacterial protein synthesis by TBacross38studies(3).Theinitialdoseof negative, decreasing healthcare system preventing
