AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


Summaryoftheevidence. Linezolid properties with thrice-weekly dosing, Linezolid is an oxazolidinone antibiotic wasusedinregimensforMDR-andXDR- especially after conversion of cultures to that inhibits bacterial protein synthesis by TBacross38studies(3).Theinitialdoseof negative, decreasing healthcare system preventing the fusion of 30S and 50S linezolid was 1,200 mg/d for 91 patients in demands and the requirement for ribosomal subunits (189). It also binds to fivestudies,600mg/dfor784patientsin28 daily injections (16, 177). Intramuscular human mitochondria and inhibits protein studies,and300mg/dfor99patientsinfive injections are painful, and 6 months of synthesis, which is the mechanism of studies(3).Proceduresandmethodologyto to younger patients. Patients’ values may Linezolid was initially used off-label in the evidence are reported in APPENDIX A, with differ sharply from providers in this absence of consistent scientific evidence as evidence profiles for PICO questions respect and should be considered when part of the regimen for difficult-to-treat reported in APPENDIX B. determining whether to use injectable cases of MDR- and XDR-TB (192). The Benefits. In our PS-matched IPDMA, agents. first large retrospective observational patients who received linezolid-containing Conclusions. In our PS-matched study suggested linezolid was effective, but regimens were more likely to achieve IPDMA, the use of amikacin and with frequent and often severe adverse treatment success (aOR, 3.4; 95% CI, streptomycinwhenthepatient’sisolatewas events (192). The same study suggested, 2.6–4.5) and to have a lower rate of death susceptible to these drugs was associated for the first time, that reducing the daily (aOR,0.3;95%CI,0.2–0.3)thanthosewho withanincreaseintreatmentsuccesswhen dose from 1,200 mg to 600 mg per day did not receive linezolid. The effect on compared with the control group not might be associated with fewer adverse treatment success was more pronounced receiving these injectables. However, events and improved tolerability. Several when studies from only high-income because of their toxicity and modest systematic reviews, IPDMAs, and one countrieswereincluded(aOR,3.9;95%CI, also are less toxic, these drugs should be published on linezolid for treatment of patients with XDR-TB, where the aOR for successful treatment versus failure or toxic therapies cannot be assembled to confirmed previous observational findings relapse was 6.3 (95% CI, 3.9–10.1) and the achieveatotaloffiveeffectivedrugs.Inour and, in particular, the effectiveness of aOR for death was 0.1 (95% CI, 0.1–0.2). analyses, amikacin and streptomycin had linezolid and its potential toxicity (195). A When PS-matched pairs analyses were similar aORs for treatment success in a meta-analysis with 121 cases of patients performed comparing the effects of minority of patients with fluoroquinolone with MDR-TB from 11 countries, treated bedaquiline and linezolid with those of no resistance. Kanamycin
