AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


with 121 cases of patients performed comparing the effects of minority of patients with fluoroquinolone with MDR-TB from 11 countries, treated bedaquiline and linezolid with those of no resistance. Kanamycin and capreomycin with linezolid, confirmed linezolid bedaquiline or linezolid, the combination were ineffective. We recommend against effectiveness (culture conversion, 93.5%; of bedaquiline and linezolid was associated using kanamycin or capreomycin. As is treatmentsuccess,81.8%)andthatthe600- with an aOR of 2.7 (95% CI, 1.5–4.9) for the case for adults, the use of amikacin mg daily dose was safer than the 1,200-mg success versus failure/relapse, and of 0.3 and streptomycin for children should dose (46.7% adverse events vs. 74.5%, (95% CI, 0.2–0.4) for death versus also be reserved to when more-effective respectively) without lowering its success/failure/relapse. The efficacy of or less-toxic therapies cannot be effectiveness (196). The clinical trial assembled to achieve a total of five confirmed the efficacy, safety, and linezolid in children with TB has been shownintwostudiesofchildren,18years effective drugs. tolerability of linezolid in patients with Research needs. N-acetylcysteine, a XDR-TB (194). There are insufficient data of age, albeit with few patients (199, 200). Harms. Adverseeffectsassociatedwith thiol-containing antioxidant, may limit the regarding the effectiveness of initiating severity and irreversibility of treatment with doses ,600 mg daily to linezolid in patients with TB include neurotoxicity (i.e., peripheral neuropathy aminoglycoside-induced ototoxicity (187, recommend lower doses. Recently, the and optic neuritis), myelosuppression, 188), warranting additional research into importance of therapeutic drug hyperlactatemia, and diarrhea, all of which this and other otoprotective measures that monitoring to reduce adverse events may improve the balance of benefits and potentially due to linezolid has been arepresumably secondary to theinhibition harms for using these injectable agents. emphasized (197, 198). of mitochondrial protein synthesis (190, 201). A published systematic review of 12 studies conducted in 11 countries globally PICOQuestion14—Linezolid: InpatientswithMDR-TB,areoutcomessafelyimproved reported an adverse event rate of 58.9% linezolid? gastrointestinal), predominantly noted in individuals treated with a dosages .600 Recommendation14:Wesuggestincludinglinezolidinaregimenforthetreatment mg/d (196). Hematological toxicity can of patients with MDR-TB (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in the occur quickly after starting treatment and evidence). This is a conditional recommendation despite linezolid-containing can involve any cell line. Neurotoxicity, regimens showing large reduction in mortality and improved treatment success, including optic neuritis and peripheral similar to bedaquiline and later-generation fluoroquinolones, because linezolid had more adverse effects and the balance of benefits and harms was less favorable neuropathy, occur later, usually after 12 to 20 weeks of
