AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


bedaquiline and later-generation fluoroquinolones, because linezolid had more adverse effects and the balance of benefits and harms was less favorable neuropathy, occur later, usually after 12 to 20 weeks of treatment. Toxicity has been compared with those drugs. associated with trough levels of .2.0 e116 American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine Volume 200 Number 10|November 15 2019 AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY DOCUMENTS patients with MDR-TB. This is a PICO Question15—Macrolides: In patients with MDR-TB, are outcomes safely conditional recommendation despite improved when regimens include macrolides compared with regimens that do not linezolid-containing regimens showing include macrolides? large reduction in mortality and Recommendation 15: We recommend NOT including the macrolides azithromycin improved treatment success, similar to and clarithromycin in a treatment regimen for patients with MDR-TB (strong bedaquiline and later-generation recommendation, very low certainty in the evidence). Our recommendation against fluoroquinolones, because linezolid the use of the macrolides azithromycin and clarithromycininMDR-TB treatmentis had more adverse effects and the strongdespitetheevidencebeingjudgedtobeofverylowcertaintybecauseweviewed balance of benefits and harms was the increased mortalityanddecreased likelihood of treatmentsuccess associatedwith less favorable compared with those drugs. theuseofthisdrugclassashavinganotablyunfavorablebalanceofbenefitstopotential Research needs. Clinical trials of harms. combinationsofnewchemicalentitiesplus linezolid, including when administered at differentdosesanddurationstooptimizeits (see ROLE OF THERAPEUTIC DRUG action of serotonin by inhibiting its therapeuticeffectwhileminimizingtoxicity MONITORING IN TREATMENT OF MDR-TB) neuronal reuptake, administration of (202–204). Adverse effects, especially linezolid concurrently with a selective are underway (Nix-TB, ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02333799; ZeNix [Safety myelosuppression, are also noted to be serotonin reuptake inhibitor can lead to and Efficacy of Various Doses and common at the currently recommended serious reactions, such as serotonin Treatment Durations of Linezolid Plus dose of 10 mg/kg twice daily in children syndrome or neuroleptic malignant ,10 years of age. syndrome–like reactions (16). One BedaquilineandPretomanidinParticipants Additional considerations. Although randomizedclinicaltrialdemonstratedthat with Pulmonary TB, XDR-TB, Pre-XDR- TB or Non-responsive/Intolerant MDR- use of linezolid for the FDA-approved 28 lowering the dose from 600 mg/d to 300 TB], NCT03086486). Further linezolid days or less for non-TB indications is mg/d after culture conversion reduced pharmacokineticandsafetydataareneeded associatedwithanacceptableadverseeffect toxicity (195). For children, one modeling profile (205), the data on the longer-term study reported that linezolid dose of 15 to find optimal dosing in adults and children. use necessary for MDR-TB are limited (3, mg/kg in full-term neonates and infants potential toxicity (in particular peripheral administered once daily, achieved neuropathy, optic neuritis, anemia, and cumulative fraction of response of >90%, Macrolides:Azithromycinand leukopenia)isnecessarybecauseoftherisk with ,10% achieving linezolid area Clarithromycin The
