AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


infants potential toxicity (in particular peripheral administered once daily, achieved neuropathy, optic neuritis, anemia, and cumulative fraction of response of >90%, Macrolides:Azithromycinand leukopenia)isnecessarybecauseoftherisk with ,10% achieving linezolid area Clarithromycin The macrolides azithromycin and of adverse events associated with the long- under the concentration-versus-time curve clarithromycin have unclear efficacy and term use of linezolid (16). If optic neuritis (AUC) of 0 to 24 associated with toxicity role in the treatment of MDR-TB (23). occurs, many patients may be rechallenged (173). On the basis of modeling of Macrolides are commonly used to treat successfully with linezolid once vision pharmacokinetic data from 48 children, upperandlowerrespiratorytractinfections normalizes. Assessment for visual toxicity WHO and Sentinel Project recommend and have an essential role in the treatment must continue after restarting linezolid. pediatric doses of linezolid as 15 mg/kg Some patients are able to be rechallenged once daily for children ,15 kg and 10 to of nontuberculous mycobacteria (206). They are believed to have with the full dose; others are able to avoid 12 mg/kg once daily for those recurrent visual toxicity with a reduced weighing .15 kg (7, 17). It is common immunomodulatory and antiinflammatory effects. M. tuberculosis has intrinsic, dose of linezolid at 300 mg daily (195). practice for patients on linezolid to be inducibleresistancetoclarithromycin(207, Linezolid should generally not be prescribed vitamin B6 (16). administered to patients taking Conclusions. In our PS-matched 208), and in vivo murine TB models confirm the lack of activity of macrolides serotonergic agents, such as monoamine IPDMA, patients who received linezolid- (209). Clarithromycin may increase oxidase inhibitors, because of the potential containing regimens were more likely to linezolid serum exposure when used in forseriousCNSreactions,suchasserotonin achieve treatment success and to have a combination (210), prompting some syndrome. Because monoamine oxidase lowerrateofdeaththanthosewhodidnot consideration of potential synergy between type A deaminates serotonin, and selective receive linezolid. We suggest including macrolidesandotherMDR-TBdrugs(211). serotoninreuptakeinhibitorspotentiatethe linezolid in a regimen for the treatment of WHO does not recommend use of macrolides to treat MDR-TB (23). PICO Question16—p-Aminosalicylic Acid: In patients with MDR-TB, are outcomes Summaryoftheevidence. Procedures safely improved when regimens include p-aminosalicylic acid compared with andmethodologytoassembleandrankthe regimens that do not include p-aminosalicylic acid? certaintyintheevidencearereportedin Recommendation 16: We suggest NOT including p-aminosalicylic acid in a APPENDIXA,withevidenceprofilesforPICO treatmentregimenforpatientswithMDR-TB(conditionalrecommendation,verylow questionsreportedinAPPENDIXB.InourPS- matchedIPDMA,patientswhoreceived certainty in the evidence). When the individualized treatment regimen for patients macrolides(n=1,067)weremorelikelyto with MDR-TB contains newer-generation, more-effective drugs, the addition of p-aminosalicylic acid does not appear to provide a benefit.
