AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


certainty in the evidence). When the individualized treatment regimen for patients macrolides(n=1,067)weremorelikelyto with MDR-TB contains newer-generation, more-effective drugs, the addition of p-aminosalicylic acid does not appear to provide a benefit. havebeentreatedwithsecond-linedrugsand tohaveresistancetofluoroquinolonesorany American Thoracic Society Documents e117 AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY DOCUMENTS second-lineinjectable(3).Patientswho Summaryoftheevidence. Procedures PICO Question17—Pyrazinamide: In receivedmacrolidesweremorelikelyto andmethodologytoassembleandrankthe receivelater-generationfluoroquinolones, certainty in the evidence are reported in patients with MDR-TB, are outcomes capreomycin,andlinezolid.Inadjusted APPENDIX A, with evidence profiles for safely improved when regimens include pyrazinamide compared with analyses,patientswhoreceivedmacrolides PICO questions reported in APPENDIX B. In regimens that do not include werelesslikelytoachievetreatment our PS-matched IPDMA, p-aminosalicylic success(aOR,0.6;95%CI,0.5–0.8)andhada acidwasnotassociatedwithanybenefiton pyrazinamide? higherrateofdeath(aOR,1.6,95%CI, treatment success (aOR, 0.8; 95% CI, Recommendation 17: We suggest 1.2–2.0)thanpatientswhodidnotreceive 0.7–1.0) and was associated with increased includingpyrazinamideinatreatment macrolides. death (aOR, 1.2; 95% CI, 1.1–1.4) (3). The regimen for patients with MDR-TB, Benefits. The available evidence does potential to cause adverse events (12.2% in when the M. tuberculosis isolate has not support the use of macrolides in the a previous meta-analysis) has also limited not been found to be resistant to treatment of MDR-TB. the tolerability of p-aminosalicylic acid pyrazinamide (conditional Harms. In our PS-matched IPDMA, (23). recommendation,verylowcertaintyof patients who received macrolides were Benefits. No association with any evidence). less likely to achieve treatment success benefit on treatment success was identified (aOR, 0.6; 95% CI, 0.5–0.8) and had a forp-aminosalicylicacidinourPS-matched higher rate of death (aOR, 1.6; 95% CI, IPDMA. In an IPDMA of children with Conclusions. When the individualized 1.2–2.0) than patients who did not receive MDR-TB, there was no benefit identified treatment regimen for patients with macrolides. fortheinclusionofp-aminosalicylicacidin MDR-TB contains newer-generation, Conclusions. Macrolides, specifically regimens (aOR, 0.75; 95% CI, 0.25–1.96; more-effective drugs, the addition of azithromycin or clarithromycin, should P=0.483) (113). p-aminosalicylic acid does not appear to not be included in a regimen for the Harms. Gastrointestinal distress is provide benefit. treatment of patients with MDR-TB. common with p-aminosalicylic acid but Research needs. Given the limited Our recommendation against the use of reported to occur less with the PASER armament of TB drugs available for the macrolides azithromycin and formulation than with older preparations treating MDR-TB, some experts have clarithromycin in MDR-TB treatment is (16). Rarehepatotoxicity and advocated for the evaluation of dose- strongdespitetheevidencebeingjudgedto thrombocytopenia havebeenreported, optimized p-aminosalicylic acid to be of very lowcertainty because we viewed as has reversible hypothyroidism, improve efficacy while minimizing the increased mortality and decreased particularly when used concomitantly toxicity (216). Research on whether likelihood
