AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


be of very lowcertainty because we viewed as has reversible hypothyroidism, improve efficacy while minimizing the increased mortality and decreased particularly when used concomitantly toxicity (216). Research on whether likelihood of treatment success associated with ethionamide(120). Inthesetting of p-aminosalicylic acid, among other agents, with the use of this drug class as having a hypothyroidism,someexperts provide may offer protection against the notably unfavorable balance of benefits to thyroidreplacement therapyrather than acquisition of resistance to other drugs in potential harms. discontinuing p-aminosalicylic acid. the regimen would also be valuable. Research needs. Further research may Clinicalexperience has shown p- be warranted on newer-generation aminosalicylic acidtobebetter tolerated macrolides and to elucidate if there is regarding gastrointestinal disturbance in Pyrazinamide potential synergy of macrolides with childrenthan inadults, although Pyrazinamide, a nicotinamide analog, is a linezolid or other second-line agents. hypothyroidism alsoremains commonin prodrug that is converted in vivo into children. pyrazinoic acid, which interferes with p-AminosalicylicAcid Additional considerations. Indirect mycobacterial fatty acid synthase. One of the first agents found to be comparison suggests that ethionamide Pyrazinamide has demonstrated effective against TB (212), p-aminosalicylic may be better than p-aminosalicylic acid effectiveness against M. tuberculosis; it is acid has been widely used clinically, if a fifth drug is needed to construct a included in standard regimens for although its precise mode of action regimen with at least five effective drugs. treatment of drug-susceptible TB and also remains uncertain (213). With the Old studies have shown p-aminosalicylic usedinregimensforMDR-TB(11,16,23). discovery of other more potent drugs, acid to be a good companion drug to However, recent population-based studies including rifampin, p-aminosalicylic acid, protect other drugs from developing conducted as part of multicountry initially used combined with streptomycin, resistance and also have shown efficacy in surveillance activities have shown that was no longer considered in first-line combination with first-line drugs (214, pyrazinamideresistanceishighlyassociated regimens. It is now used as part of a 215). It has recently been suggested by with rifampin resistance (217, 218). This treatmentregimenforMDR-andXDR-TB, pediatric DR-TB experts that in finding, in conjunction with evidence that although the benefits of p-aminosalicylic children p-aminosalicylic acid may pyrazinamide efficacy is reduced in the acid are not clear and toxicity limits its replaceaninjectableagentintheabsenceof setting of pncA gene mutations (219–222), use. Current guidance recommends better drugs (83). When p-aminosalicylic underscores the importance of that p-aminosalicylic acid be used to acid is used, experts recommend documenting drug susceptibility to compose a regimen when five effective monitoring
