AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


224). Higher doses were not balanced with regard to other isolates were resistant in vitro (6). have been shown to be more effective in effective drugs; in particular, the patients Benefits. In our PS-matched IPDMA, animal models and phase 2A studies, but not receiving pyrazinamide were more treatment success was significantly less doses of 40 to 70 mg/kg were found to be likely to receive linezolid and a later- likely with regimens containing too toxic to be pursued further in human generation fluoroquinolone. Thus, the pyrazinamide (aOR, 0.7; 95% CI, 0.5–0.9), studies (224). ability to detect an effect of pyrazinamide but death was also significantly less Summaryoftheevidence. Procedures might have been partially obscured. In a frequent (aOR, 0.7; 95% CI, 0.6–0.8). This andmethodologytoassembleandrankthe previous IPDMA, before linezolid and paradoxmaybeduetoconfoundinginour certainty in the evidence are reported in bedaquiline were more commonly used, PS-matched IPDMA, as patients who did APPENDIX A, with evidence profiles for administration of pyrazinamide among notreceivepyrazinamideweresubstantially PICO questions reported in APPENDIX B. patients with susceptible isolates was more likely to receive linezolid. Moreover, Our PS-matched IPDMA compared associated with an aOR of 1.9 (95% CI, ourPS-matchedIPDMAdidnotassessthe outcomes in 1,986 individuals with isolates 1.3–2.9) for cure/complete versus potential ability of pyrazinamide to e120 American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine Volume 200 Number 10|November 15 2019 AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY DOCUMENTS contribute to treatment shortening, as has When included in the regimen, most therefore, is individualized and may differ been achieved in drug-susceptible TB. experts use doses of 25 to 40 mg/kg/d substantially from the approach described Because pyrazinamide is associated with orally. The recommended dose of inTable10.Dosesofthedrugsfortreating increased success only when used to treat pyrazinamide in children is 30 to 40 adults and children with MDR-TB are patients whose isolates are susceptible to mg/kg daily. provided in Table9,modifiedand updated the drug (144), whenever feasible, the Conclusions. We suggest including from the 2016 ATS/CDC/IDSA Treatment decision to include pyrazinamide in a pyrazinamideinaregimenforthetreatment ofDrug-SusceptibleTBPracticeGuidelines regimen should be based on pyrazinamide of patients with MDR-TB, when the M. (11). susceptibility results. tuberculosis isolate has not been found In an IPDMA of children with MDR- resistant to pyrazinamide. TB, the addition of pyrazinamide to a Research needs. Pyrazinamide is being Role of Therapeutic Drug regimenshowednobenefitinthetreatment evaluated as part of novel treatment Monitoring in Treatment of of confirmed MDR-TB cases (aOR, 1.63; regimens for both DS and MDR-TB in MDR-TB 95%CI,0.41–6.56;P=0.484)(113). multipleclinicaltrials(56).Developmentof Pyrazinamideresistancewas,however,not
