AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


Therapeutic Drug regimenshowednobenefitinthetreatment evaluated as part of novel treatment Monitoring in Treatment of of confirmed MDR-TB cases (aOR, 1.63; regimens for both DS and MDR-TB in MDR-TB 95%CI,0.41–6.56;P=0.484)(113). multipleclinicaltrials(56).Developmentof Pyrazinamideresistancewas,however,not a reliable, simple molecular test for Specific pharmacokinetic (PK)/ testedandimprovedselectionofcasesonthe pyrazinamide susceptibility is a critically pharmacodynamic (PD) targets, especially basisofresistancemightchangethisoutcome. important research need. Dose theAUCdividedbytheMICover24hours Harms. Pyrazinamide has been used optimization studies for pyrazinamide are (AUC 0–24 /MIC), are being recognized as extensively in the treatment of TB, and warranted, as higher doses may be more playing an important role in determining toxicities are well documented (225). The efficacious but also may be more toxic. efficacy (231). This has been demonstrated most common is gastrointestinal upset or mostclearlyinhollowfibersystemsinvitro intolerance. In a recent review of the that isolate the activity of the drug against tolerability of TB drugs, pyrazinamide was Building a Treatment the organism (232, 233). Further evidence associatedwithseriousadverseeventsin56 Regimen for MDR-TB has been provided by animal models of 2,023 (2.8%) patients (226). This is (mouse, rabbit, nonhuman primates) and consistent with previous reports of Theguidelinecommitteeproposesaclinical through human clinical trials (234–237). pyrazinamide toxicity (11, 225, 227). strategy tool for building a treatment Druglevelsareusuallychosentobefourto Hepatic enzyme elevations are common regimen for MDR-TB (Table 10). The fivetimesgreaterthantheMIC.Becauseof hepatotoxicity, although less common, can evidence-based review of the individual more challenging to isolate the PK/PD occur. Modest elevated serum uric acid drugs, with consideration of the balance of contribution of individual drugs, but levels are also expected, although the benefits and harms for each drug, the studies have nonetheless been informative clinical significance of this is unclear. experience of MDR-TB experts on the on the relationships between efficacy Nongouty polyarthralgias and committee, as well as perspectives of and drug exposure (238–240). In human ofclinicalgoutcanalsooccur,especiallyin encouragesthebuildingofalloralregimens each patient has his or her unique thosewithahistoryofpriorgoutyarthritis. with five effective drugs (to which the duration of disease, host genetics, and Additional considerations. All patients isolate is susceptible or has low likelihood particular strain of M. tuberculosis. The receivingpyrazinamideaspartofanMDR- of resistance) for the treatment of MDR- general term for these PK/PD data is TBtreatmentregimenshouldbemonitored TB.InourPS-matchedIPDMA,significant “exposure–response” data (i.e., for a carefully for signs or symptoms of favorable synergies were identified with given amount of drug exposure, how hepatotoxicityandhavetheirpyrazinamide improved treatment success and reduced much response can you expect?). Much dose held or decreased if such toxicity is mortality when bedaquiline was used in ofthepublisheddatafocusonthefirst-line detected. Isolated increases in uric
