AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


with TB with to certain drugs, including the injectable such individualized data. Following gastrointestinal problems that increase risk drugs cycloserine and linezolid (245–247). over the past 3 decades clearly shows that infection, impaired renal clearance, or with elevated trough values (202–204). some patients have low drug diabetes should be prioritized for TDM “Target”rangesfortheinjectabledrugsand (11, 231, 241, 242, 244). for all patients being treated for MDR or research continues on refining these. ManyMDR-TBexpertsusetherapeutic XDR-TB early in treatment, rather than Fluoroquinolones display concentration- drugmonitoring(TDM)toidentifypatients waiting for a poor response. TDM should dependent efficacy, and higher doses of with problems with drug absorption, be used and interpreted in consultation moxifloxacin and levofloxacin are thereby informing dose adjustments. with an expert in MDR-TB. being studied (174, 248). Currently, e122 American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine Volume 200 Number 10|November 15 2019 AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY DOCUMENTS avoiding low serum concentrations seems advisable. PICO Question18—Shorter-course, standardized regimen: In patients with MDR-TB, Acommonclinicalpracticeistocollect doestreatmentwithastandardizedMDR-TBregimenfor<12monthsleadtobetter samples at 2 and 6 hours after drug outcomes than treatment with an MDR-TB regimen for 18–24 months? administration to measure concentrations Recommendation 18: The shorter-course regimen is standardized with the use of that may distinguish normal drug kanamycin(whichthecommitteerecommendsagainstusing)andincludesdrugsfor absorption (a 2-h value within the normal which there is documented or high likelihood of resistance (e.g., isoniazid, range)fromdelayedabsorption(a6-hvalue ethionamide,pyrazinamide).AlthoughtheSTREAMStage1randomizedtrialfound greaterthanthe2-hvalue,approachingthe theshorter-courseregimentobenoninferiortolongerinjectable-containingregimens normalrange)andmalabsorption(both with respect to the primary efficacy outcome (8), the guideline committee cannot valuesarebelowthenormalrange).This make a recommendation either for or against this standardized shorter-course approachalsoworksforinjectabledrugs. regimen,comparedwithlongerindividualizedall-oralregimensthatcanbecomposed Furthermore,troughvaluesforlinezolidcan in accordance with the recommendations in this practice guideline. We make a behelpful(11,231,241,242,244).Althoughit researchrecommendationfortheconductofrandomizedclinicaltrialsevaluatingthe isclearlypossibletocurepatientswithout efficacy, safety, and tolerability of modified shorter-course regimens that include TDMandeveninthesettingoflowerserum newer oral agents, exclude injectables, and include drugs for which susceptibility is drugconcentrations,theavailabledata documented or highly likely. suggestthattheprobabilityofcuredecreases withdecreasingdrugconcentrations (231–241).Giventheincompleteinformation currentlyavailable,manyexpertcliniciansuse undergoing a formal economic evaluation 0.6–4.6), compared with individualized invitrosusceptibilitydata andTDMas as part of the STREAM trials (251). regimens. availabletoolsforoptimizingthetreatmentof patientswithMDR-andXDR-TB.Forall Benefits patients,butinparticularthosereceiving SummaryoftheEvidence The shorter regimen allows for a outpatienttreatment,TDMshouldbe IntheSTREAMStage1clinicaltrial,of424 significantly shorter duration of therapy coordinatedandconductedusingpatient- participantswhounderwentrandomization, centeredapproaches. 383 were included in the modified compared with the individualized regimen and consequently less pill burden, intention-to-treatpopulation(8).Favorable medication cost, and associated provider statuswasreportedin79.8%ofparticipants administration costs. The burden on inthelong-regimengroupandin78.8%of Shorter-Course, those in the short-regimen group—a patients of lost productivity or lost wages Standardized, 9- to 12-Month difference, with adjustment for HIV status, andout-of-pocketcostsisconsiderablyless Regimen for MDR-TB of 1.0 percentage point (95% CI, with a shorter regimen.
