AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


1.7; 95% CI, died, compared with 4 of 50 (8.0%) in the American Thoracic Society Documents e123 AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY DOCUMENTS Mycobacteria Growth Indicator Tube PICO Question19—Surgery for MDR-TB: Should elective lung resection surgery (MGIT) is reliable (107), whereas Model (i.e., lobectomy or pneumonectomy) be used as an adjunctive therapeutic option in PerformanceEvaluationProgramdatahave combinationwithantimicrobialtherapy,versusmedicaltherapyalone,foradultswith identified variability in detecting MDR-TB? ethambutol resistance, with the majority of Recommendation19a:Wesuggestelectivepartiallungresection(e.g.,lobectomyor laboratorieshavingdisagreementononeto wedge resection), rather than medical therapy alone, for adults with MDR-TB several strains with ethambutol resistance receiving antimicrobial-based therapy (conditional recommendation, very low (261). Alternatively, molecular testing for certainty in the evidence). The writing committee believes this option would be pncA mutations as a method for beneficialforpatientsforwhomclinicaljudgement,supportedbybacteriologicaland determining pyrazinamide resistance may radiographic data, suggests a strongriskof treatment failure orrelapse withmedical bemorereliable,becauseonaverage85%of therapy alone. TB strains resistant to pyrazinamide will have such a mutation (217, 221, 222). In Recommendation 19b: We suggest medical therapy alone, rather than including limited-resourced settings, testing all the electivetotallungresection(pneumonectomy),foradultswithMDR-TBreceiving drugs composing the shorter-course antimicrobial therapy (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in the regimenmaynotbepossible(106,108).In evidence). contrast, in Europe, DST for ethambutol (93, 107) and pyrazinamide (106) is well studied, but katG and inhA genetic long-regimen group (HR in a post hoc performed by the European Centre for analysis, 2.23; 95% CI, 0.76–6.60) (8). Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) mutations are not. In the United States, Similarly,inarecentlypublishedIPDMA,a (93, 107, 255). In the United States, .15% growth-based DST data are available for ethambutol, pyrazinamide, high- and low- greater proportion of individuals who ofpatientswithMDR-TBwouldbeeligible level isoniazid, and ethionamide, and received the shorter regimen had less for the shorter-course MDR-TB regimen moleculartestingisavailablethroughsome treatmentsuccessandmoredeath(249).In (256). Data from California showed either statepublichealthlaboratoriesandthrough theIPDMA,otheradverseeffectswerealso 14.6% or 20.5% eligibility, based on statistically insignificant with the shorter whether high-dose isoniazid or theCDC’sMDDRservice(257).Therefore, considering patients with either katG or regimen,includingdeafnessandototoxicity ethionamidewould bedeterminedeffective (relative risk, 1.5; 95% CI, 0.6–4.0), liver on the basis of genetic katG or inhA inhA(butnotboth)mutationstobeeligible injury (relative risk, 2.2; 95%CI, 0.5–10.3), mutations, respectively (257). The for the shorter regimen might be rational. Last, the rate of cross-resistance between hepatitis (relative risk, 2.5; 95% CI, availability of molecular and growth-based 0.3–21.2), and renal impairment (relative DST is key to determining the potential ofloxacin and moxifloxacin is likely not risk, 4.5; 95% CI, 0.6–35.2). One of the eligibility of shorter-course regimen use. complete. Data from the ECDC showed that 81% of M. tuberculosis isolates that most concerning adverse effects
