AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


risk, 4.5; 95% CI, 0.6–35.2). One of the eligibility of shorter-course regimen use. complete. Data from the ECDC showed that 81% of M. tuberculosis isolates that most concerning adverse effects of the The combined use of both modalities can were resistant to ofloxacin were also shorter regimen is hearing loss, with 7.1% better inform drug resistance and potential resistant to moxifloxacin. However, other reported in the African study and between treatment regimens. High-dose isoniazid is settings (e.g., Bangladesh and Pakistan) 0% and 23% in the meta-analysis (249, likely to be active against organisms with have shown cross-resistance as low as 7% 250).TheSTREAMStage1trialfoundthat low-level isoniazid resistance, commonly (107). ear and labyrinth disorders occurred in associatedwithamutationintheinhAgene 7.4% participants on the shorter regimen, that also confers resistance to ethionamide Conclusions compared with 5.7% with the longer (257). Ethionamide is more likely to be Theshorter-courseregimenwasjudgedbythe regimen, which was not statistically active against M. tuberculosis organisms significant (8); the frequency may have guidelines committee to have minimal with high-level resistance to isoniazid, desirable effects (on treatment success, been lower than in cohort studies because associated with a mutation in katG and mortality, and culture conversions) and hearing loss was not monitored by which are less commonly resistant to small to moderate undesirable effects audiometry in STREAM Stage 1. ethionamide(257).Globaldatahaveshown (adverse events, limited applicability, and that katG is present in 64.3% of the cases the use of kanamycin as part of the AdditionalConsiderations tested and inhA in 19.2%, with some standardized regimen), and includes drugs When applying the eligibility criteria from regional differences (258). The shorter for which there is documented or high WHO for using the shorter-course, regimen includes both ethionamide and likelihood of resistance (e.g., isoniazid, standardized regimen to the population high-dose isoniazid and therefore is likely ethionamide, and pyrazinamide). included in our PS-matched IPDMA to be effective against both of these Although the WHO’s STREAM Stage 1 (7, 253), .15% of individuals would have commonMDR-TBresistancepatterns(257, randomized trial found the shorter-course been eligible for the standardized, shorter 259). There is uncertainty regarding the regimentobenoninferiortoalongregimen regimen. In Europe, patient eligibility for diagnostic accuracy and reproducibility of with respect to the primary efficacy the shorter-course regimen has ranged ethambutol and pyrazinamide growth- outcome (8), the guideline committee from7.9%(48of612newcases)inastudy based DST assays (260). For ethambutol, cannot make a recommendation performed at TB reference centers (254) to the ECDC has reported that the either for or against this
