AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


committee from7.9%(48of612newcases)inastudy based DST assays (260). For ethambutol, cannot make a recommendation performed at TB reference centers (254) to the ECDC has reported that the either for or against this standardized 16.9% in a surveillance-based study growth-based DST when performed on shorter-course regimen compared e124 American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine Volume 200 Number 10|November 15 2019 AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY DOCUMENTS PICO Question20—Treatmentofisoniazid-resistant TB:PICO Question20a: Should patients with isoniazid-resistant TB be treated with a regimen composed of a fluoroquinolone, rifampin, ethambutol, and pyrazinamide for 6 months compared with rifampin, ethambutol, and pyrazinamide (without a fluoroquinolone) for 6 months? PICOQuestion20b:Shouldpatientswithisoniazid-resistantTBbetreatedwitharegimencomposedoffluoroquinolone,rifampin, and ethambutol for 6 months and pyrazinamide for the first 2 months compared with a regimen composed of a fluoroquinolone, rifampin, ethambutol, and pyrazinamide for 6 months? Recommendation20a:Wesuggestaddingalater-generationfluoroquinolonetoa6-monthregimenofdailyrifampin,ethambutol, and pyrazinamide for patients with isoniazid-resistant TB (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in the evidence). Recommendation 20b: In patients with isoniazid-resistant TB treated with a daily regimen of a later-generation fluoroquinolone, rifampin, ethambutol, and pyrazinamide, we suggest that the duration of pyrazinamide can be shortened to 2 months in selected situations (i.e., noncavitary and lower-burden disease or toxicity from pyrazinamide) (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in the evidence). with longer individualized regimens. with HIV areavailable, thistreatment TheIPDMAidentified67cohortstudies,of We instead make a research approachshould preferentially which 45 could not be used because either recommendation for the conduct of be consideredonlywithin a research individualpatientdatawerenotavailableor randomized clinical trials evaluating study.Current trialsareunderway tohelp the surgical status of patients was not the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of answersomethese questions (262). known. Twenty-six studies comprising modified shorter-course regimens that 6,431patientswithMDR-TBwereincluded include newer oral agents, exclude (271). We used data from this IPDMA to injectables, and include drugs for which Role of Surgery in MDR-TB generate the evidence profiles. Despite the susceptibility is confirmed or deemed to analytic advantages of an IPDMA, which be highly likely. If this shorter-course Surgery was one of the first therapeutic allows for adjustment on baseline regimen is used, we recommend obtaining approachesfortreatingTB.Itwasreplaced imbalanceinmanyprognosticfactors,there DST for all medications in the regimen, by chemotherapy between 1960 and 1975. wasasubstantialresidualriskofbiasinthe with the exception of clofazimine, However, several scientific societies and results. There is no information about the for which reliable testing is not national and international organizations impact of surgery on adverse effects or available, and recommend careful suggest consideration of surgery as an quality of life. side effect monitoring, including adjunctive therapy for MDR-TB.
