AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


international organizations impact of surgery on adverse effects or available, and recommend careful suggest consideration of surgery as an quality of life. side effect monitoring, including adjunctive therapy for MDR-TB. This is high-quality audiometry, monthly based on the results of observational Benefits microbiologic monitoring, and close retrospective studies. Selected Patients with partial lung resection had a case management, especially in persons indicationsarehighlighted,includingfailure higher probability of treatment success, as with HIV. of drug therapy, relapse, localized (e.g., an opposed to treatment failure, relapse, or isolated cavity) or extensive pulmonary death(aOR,3.0;95%CI,1.5–5.9).However, ResearchNeeds hemoptysis or empyema) (23, 263–270). limitationsofindividualstudiesandlackof Wemakearesearchrecommendationforthe precision in results. conduct ofrandomized clinical trials evaluatingtheefficacy,safety,andtolerability SummaryoftheEvidence ofmodifiedshorter-courseregimensthat Systematic reviews and meta-analyses have Harms include neweroral agents,exclude been performed on the role of surgery in In the published IPDMA, a substantially injectables,and include drugs for which patientswithMDR-andXDR-TB(263,271, higher proportion of patients who had a susceptibilityisconfirmedordeemedto 272). The main limitation of systematic pneumonectomy died (8.5%) compared behighlylikely. Further research is reviews of surgery in MDR and XDR-TB with those who had a partial resection needed on medications such as linezolid, that summarize results of observational (2.2%), but the authors could not establish bedaquiline,and other medications studies combining study-level data is the whetherpatientsdiedasaresultofsurgical currently inclinical trialsas substitutions tremendous variability in patient complications or of their TB (271). The intheregimenifpatientsexperience characteristics, background chemotherapy estimates of the effects of pneumonectomy adverseeffectsor resistance develops regimens, and types of surgical procedures onriskofdeath(aOR,1.8;95%CI,0.6–5.1) to anyofthe medications inthe (263, 271, 272). An IPDMA of surgery in and treatment success (aOR, 0.8; 95% CI, regimen(262).Research onmodified MDR-TB was designed to address those 0.1–6.0)werenotstatisticallysignificant.As shorter-courseregimensfor pediatric shortcomings (271). Procedures and forpartiallungresection,bothestimatesare patients and inindividualsliving with methodology to assemble and rank the very uncertain. Treatment success in HIV isalso needed.Until moredata certainty in the evidence are reported in patients with XDR-TB was noted to be regarding theuse andoutcomes ofthe APPENDIX A, with evidence profiles for lower when patients underwent surgery shorter-courseregimensin patients PICO questions reported in APPENDIX B. comparedwithpatientswhodidnot(aOR, American Thoracic Society Documents e125 AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY DOCUMENTS 0.4; 95% CI, 0.2–0.9), an effect that was Treatment of Isoniazid- comparator of rifampin, ethambutol, heterogeneous across studies and may Resistant TB pyrazinamide with or without isoniazid, also be confounded by factors that we similarly combined regimens of predisposed to poor outcomes in these Isoniazidisanimportantfirst-lineagentfor 6 and .6 months’ duration regimens, patients (271). Alternatively, patients who thetreatmentofTB,possessingpotentearly after comparison between thesedurations were healthy enough
