AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


patients often have not also receive ART during TB treatment include sufficient numbersof childrento been excluded from TB treatment trials. comparedwithan82%successrateinthose allowtheformulations of GRADE-based Most of the oral drugs used to treat MDR- also treated with ART. In children with recommendations.Nonetheless,onthebasis and XDR-TB are not licensed for children. confirmed MDR-TB, the use of injectable ofa recentIPDMA of 975 children with Although the Global Drug Facility has agents and high-dose isoniazid was MDR-TBfrom18countries,recent pediatric dispersible tablets available associated with treatment success. pharmacokineticstudiesin children,and ( Unfortunately, limitations of this study several observational studies showing good available.asp), these formulations are not included that the vast majority of patients American Thoracic Society Documents e129 AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY DOCUMENTS came from one site (Cape Town, South Summaryoftheevidence. Of the 65 unlessthereisa compelling reason for Africa), difficulty in estimating the pregnant women for whom MDR-TB exclusion (330). treatmenteffectsofindividualdrugswithin treatmentoutcomedatawereavailable,49% multidrugregimens,theavailabilityofonly (n=32) were cured and 20% (n=13) Treatment of Contacts observational cohort studies, and that completed treatment for a treatment Exposed to MDR-TB treatment decisions were based on the success proportion of 69%. Fourteen clinician’s perception of illness, with percent (n=9) of the women died. In1992and2000,ATSandCDCadvised:1) resulting potential for bias. Treatment failure was reported in 9% no treatment for MDR LTBI for persons Conclusions. Excellent treatment (n=6), and 3% (n=2) were lost to follow- not at high risk for progression to TB trials and extensive clinical experience for still receiving treatment at the time of forTBdiseasesignsandsymptoms;2)6to children with MDR- and XDR-TB using publication.Fetaloutcomesincluded78.5% 12 months of treatment with two or more individualized treatment regimens with the (n=51) healthy births, with eight medications to which the isolate of the currently available drugs. Microbiologic children being born premature or having source case is susceptible (331, 332). cureandprobablecureratesinchildrencan low birth weight. Medical abortions were reach80%to90%withearlyrecognitionof obtainedby12%ofthepatients(n=8),and SummaryoftheEvidence drug resistance and adequate treatment 3% (n=2) underwent spontaneous Procedures and methodology to assemble (311). The greatest difficulties have been abortions. Stillbirth was reported for one and rank the certainty in the evidence are recognizingthatthechildhasMDR-TBand child (1.5%), 3% (n=2) of children were reportedinAPPENDIXA,withevidenceprofiles theabilityofthechildtotolerateinjectable born with HIV, and 1.5% (n=1) had forPICOquestionsreportedinAPPENDIXB.A drugs; fortunately, with expanded TB/HIV coinfection. systematic review of 21published knowledge of and experience with the Conclusions. Onthebasisofthelimited observational studiesthat examined newer oral drugs, such as bedaquiline and data available, we conclude that there is outcomes ofTBincidence, treatment delamanid, pediatricians with expertise in evidence to support treatment of MDR-TB completion, adverseeffects,andcost
