AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


Critical Care Medicine Volume 200 Number 10|November 15 2019 AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY DOCUMENTS AdditionalConsiderations alone. For treatment of MDR LTBI, we ATS/CDC/ERS/IDSA guidelines (3). For Modeled cost-effectiveness studies have suggest 6 to 12 months’ treatment with a the 2019 WHO update, data from 625 shown greatest benefit using a fluoroquinolone alone or with a second patients were included by WHO from fluoroquinolone-based MDR LTBI drug, on the basis of source-case isolate eight other datasets received in 2018 treatment. In one study, the most cost- DST. Onthe basis of evidence of increased (Australia, Belarus, Brazil, France, Latvia, effective regimen was toxicity, adverse events, and Republic of Korea, Russian Federation, fluoroquinolone/ethambutol, followed by discontinuations, pyrazinamide should not and the EndTB project), as well as a fluoroquinolone alone, then by beroutinelyusedastheseconddrug.Inlieu sample of 3,626 patients receiving pyrazinamide/ethambutol (333). A of fluoroquinolone-based treatment, there treatmentinSouthAfrica,including1,210 pyrazinamide/fluoroquinoloneregimenwas are few data for the use of other second- casesstartedonbedaquilinein2015.With particularlytoxic,asmeasuredbytreatment line medications and, because of toxicity, these newer data added, the WHO discontinuation, and prevented about half theyarenotrecommendedbyexperts.For individual patient dataset removed 3,367 asmanyTBcasesasthemostcost-effective contacts to fluoroquinolone-resistant, records because of incomplete DST option (333). An expert panel generated a pre–XDR-TB, pyrazinamide/ethambutol documentation (7). Despite the changes policy brief on this topic recently, may be an effective option, if source-case in the datasets described, WHO and acknowledged that further evidence is isolate DST shows susceptibility to these ATS/CDC/ERS/IDSA recommendations urgently needed, but still endorsed the drugs.Inchildren,TBdrugsaregenerally are largely concordant, as they were immediateimplementationofpostexposure better tolerated, and levofloxacin is derived concurrently, using a similar management of household contacts of preferred because of the availability of an approach (GRADE methodology and a MDR-TB,endorsingtheapproachasbeing oral suspension formulation. multidisciplinary Guideline Development effective, feasible, and cost efficient (334). Group), and were informed by an The Curry International TB Center Drug ResearchNeeds individual patient data meta-analysis that Resistant TB: Clinician’s Survival Guide Randomizedclinicaltrialsontheeffectiveness overlapped substantially. The main suggestsanLTBIregimenoflevofloxacinor of safer, shorter,more-effectiveMDR LTBI differences are highlighted below. moxifloxacin alone or combined with a regimensareunderway.Three randomized second medication to which the isolate of clinical trialsof MDR LTBI treatment for d WHO recommendations are stated as the infectious source patient is susceptible contactstopersonswithinfectiousMDR-TB applying to MDR and RR-TB. Our (16). include:1)TB-CHAMP(TuberculosisChild ATS/CDC/ERS/IDSA guidelines do not Among those with presumed MDR Multidrug-Resistant Preventive Therapy address management of rifampin LTBI, there is probable effectiveness of Trial): 24weeks of levofloxacin versus resistance in the absence of isoniazid preventing TB through
