AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


with presumed MDR Multidrug-Resistant Preventive Therapy address management of rifampin LTBI, there is probable effectiveness of Trial): 24weeks of levofloxacin versus resistance in the absence of isoniazid preventing TB through MDR LTBI placebo in children ,5 yearsof age, 2) V resistance. treatment. From systematic reviews of QUIN(Levofloxacin versusPlacebo for the d WHO recommendations only retain the studiesreportingincidenceforbothtreated Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis among intensive/continuation phase and untreated contacts, TB incidence was Contacts of Patients with Multidrug- denomination for regimens that significantly lower with MDR LTBI ResistantTuberculosis [The VQUIN MDR incorporate amikacin and streptomycin. treatment (333, 335–339). In studies that Trial]):6monthsofdailylevofloxacinversus We anticipate that use of regimens that publishedoutcomesbyregimen,therewere placebo, and 3) PHOENIx (Protecting incorporate injectables will decline hightreatmentdiscontinuationratesdueto Households on ExposuretoNewly over time, and it is likely that both adverse effects and toxicity in persons Diagnosed IndexMultidrug-Resistant WHO and ATS/CDC/ERS/IDSA taking pyrazinamide-containing MDR- Tuberculosis Patients [PHOENIxMDR- recommendations on treatment LTBI regimens (336, 337, 339–342). There TB]): 6 months of dailydelamanid versus 6 duration will change in the near future were low treatment discontinuation rates monthsof isoniazid.In addition,more and the distinction between an initial due to adverse effects and toxicity in informationis needed onthecost and continuation phase will be persons taking fluoroquinolone-containing effectivenessof treating contacts with reduced further in the context of MDR-LTBI regimens. Finally, children are presumed DR-TB infection using these newer, more potent all-oral regimens at high risk for developing MDR-TB if newer MDR LTBI regimens. emerging. infected with MDR LTBI and generally d The duration of the injectable phase experiencefeweradverseeffectsthanadults. in the WHO recommendations relates Given the uncertainties above, many TB Summary of Key Differences to its total length (6–7 mo in 2019 betweenATS/CDC/ERS/IDSA experts and programs provide extended update) rather than time after and WHO 2019 Consolidated post-treatment completion follow-up for culture conversion as in these patients treated for presumed MDR LTBI. Guidelines on Drug-Resistant ATS/CDC/ERS/IDSA guidelines. The Tuberculosis Treatment recommendation on total duration is similar in length in both guidelines. For Conclusions The2019WHOConsolidatedGuidelineson the WHO guidelines, no separate ForcontactswithpresumedMDRLTBIdue Drug-Resistant Tuberculosis Treatment recommendationsaremadeforpre-XDR to exposure to an infectious patient with guidelines were based on a modified set of or XDR-TB. MDR-TB,wesuggestofferingtreatmentfor datathatexpandedontheinitialindividual d The minimum number of medicines LTBI versus following with observation patient dataset used for these likely to be effective at the start of American Thoracic Society Documents e131 AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY DOCUMENTS treatment is five in the ATS/CDC/ primarily determined by the outcomes likelihoodof
