AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY
KEYWORDS: treatment, patients, drugs, mdr-tb, regimen, aor, drug, evidence, recommendation, regimens, american, linezolid, pyrazinamide, low, society


these likely to be effective at the start of American Thoracic Society Documents e131 AMERICAN THORACIC SOCIETY DOCUMENTS treatment is five in the ATS/CDC/ primarily determined by the outcomes likelihoodof resistance (e.g., isoniazid, ERS/IDSA guidelines and four in the of Trial 213 reported in aggregate ethionamide, pyrazinamide),could not WHO recommendations. The WHO format by the study investigator (a make a recommendation for or recommendation was based on subsequent IPDMA of trial data againstthe shorterregimen compared analyses that showed no clear benefit did not change the strength with individualized regimens.Instead, from exceeding four effective drugs of the recommendation or the the ATS/CDC/ERS/IDSA committee at the start of treatment. The positioning of the drug in terms of makes a research recommendation difference between WHO and priority for choice in a longer for the conduct of randomized be due to the greater use of committee concurs with the safety, and tolerability of modified bedaquiline and other effective WHO recommendation that shorter-courseregimens that drugs in the latter updates of the delamanid can be used for include neweroral agents, exclude IPDMA used by WHO. The treatment of MDR-TB. injectables, and include drugs for ATS/CDC/ERS/IDSA recommendation d With respect to composing a regimen, whichsusceptibilityisconfirmedor chose five medicines on the basis of Table10inthese guidelines, providing a highly likely. benefits noted in analyses shown in stepwise selection of agents, is different d Forpatientswithisoniazid-resistantTB, Tables 3 and 4 and also to anticipate from the WHO guidance, which theWHOrecommendationsdonot toxicities related to MDR-TB drugs, proposes three groupings, essentially provideforareductionofdurationof wherein one or more agents would combining steps. On the basis of pyrazinamideuseundersituationssuchas likely need to be held or permanently judgements of the respective recommendedbytheATS/CDC/ERS/IDSA discontinued within the first 6 months guidelinecommitteegroups,theordering guidance. of treatment. of drugs within groups is minimally d Finally, although the WHO d The WHO recommendations for different. recommends evaluation of drug linezolid and bedaquiline were strong, d WHOmaintainstherecommendationon resistance, their guidance accepts that with the evidence judged to be of thestandardized9-to11-monthshorter- globally empirical regimens will moderate certainty by the WHO course regimen, under continue to be used. The Guideline Development Group, whereas specific conditions, whereas the ATS/CDC/ERS/IDSA guidance the ATS/CDC/ERS/IDSA guidelines ATS/CDC/ERS/IDSA committee, on the requires microbiological judged the certainty of the IPDMA to basis of the fact that the regimen is data to create a regimen suitable for be of lower certainty. The WHO standardized with the use of drugs for the individual patient’s strain
