Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, food, physical, activity, fat, disease, health, countries, journal, diet, cost, lifestyle, physical activity, percent, use


Prevention of Chronic Disease by Means of Diet and Lifestyle Changes Walter C. Willett, Jeffrey P. Koplan, Rachel Nugent, Courtenay Dusenbury, Pekka Puska, and Thomas A. Gaziano Coronary artery disease (CAD),ischemic stroke,diabetes,and facilities,an outcome that is not surprising,because their rates some specific cancers,which until recently were common only have historically been extremely low in developing countries in high-income countries, are now becoming the dominant with few medical facilities.However,preventing these diseases sources of morbidity and mortality worldwide . will require changes in behaviors related to smoking,physical In addition,rates ofcancers and cardiovascular disease (CVD) activity,and diet;investments in education,food policies,and among migrants from low-risk to high-risk countries almost urban physical infrastructure are needed to support and always increase dramatically. In traditional African societies, encourage these changes (see box 44.1). for example, CAD is virtually nonexistent, but rates among African Americans are similar to those among Caucasian Americans. These striking changes in rates within countries CHRONIC DISEASE PREVENTION over time and among migrating populations indicate that the primary determinants of these diseases are not genetic but In this section,we briefly review dietary and lifestyle changes environmental factors,including diet and lifestyle.Thus,con- that reduce the incidence of chronic disease. The potential siderable research has been aimed at identifying modifiable magnitude ofbenefit is also discussed. determinants ofchronic diseases. Prospective epidemiological studies,some randomized pre- Recommended Lifestyle Changes vention trials, and many short-term studies of intermediate endpoints such as blood pressure and lipids have revealed a Specific changes in diet and lifestyle and likely benefits are good deal about the specific dietary and lifestyle determinants summarized in table 44.1.These relationships and supporting ofmajor chronic diseases.Most ofthese studies have been con- evidence are summarized here. ducted in Western countries,in part because of the historical importance ofthese diseases in the West,but also because they Avoid Tobacco Use. Avoidance of smoking by preventing have the most developed research infrastructure. A general initiation or by cessation for those who already smoke is the conclusion is that reducing identified,modifiable dietary and single most important way to prevent CVD and cancer (chap- lifestyle risk factors could prevent most cases of CAD,stroke, ter 46).Avoiding the use ofsmokeless tobacco will also prevent diabetes, and many cancers among high-income populations a good deal oforal cancer. . These findings are profoundly important, because they indicate that these diseases are not inevitable con- Maintain a Healthy Weight. Obesity is increasing rapidly sequences ofa modern society.Furthermore,lowrates ofthese worldwide (chapter 45). Even
