Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, food, physical, activity, fat, disease, health, countries, journal, diet, cost, lifestyle, physical activity, percent, use


are profoundly important, because they indicate that these diseases are not inevitable con- Maintain a Healthy Weight. Obesity is increasing rapidly sequences ofa modern society.Furthermore,lowrates ofthese worldwide (chapter 45). Even though obesity—a body mass diseases can be attained without drugs or expensive medical index (BMI) of 30 or greater—has received more attention Box 44.1 The Insulin Resistance Syndrome In recent years, researchers have recognized the insulin most direct causes are overweight and inactivity, but resistance syndrome (also known as the metabolic syn- dietary factors contribute. Genetic factors, which are drome) as a common contributing factor to the develop- probably beneficial during periods offood shortages,also ment of diabetes,CAD,and some cancers.The syndrome play a role.Recent evidence indicates that the populations is characterized by increased waist circumference, low of Asia, Latin America, and probably Africa are particu- HDL (high-density lipoprotein) cholesterol,high levels of larly susceptible (Dickinson and others 2002; Harris and triglycerides, hypertension, and glucose intolerance. The others 1998). Table 44.1 Convincing and Probable Relationships between Dietary and Lifestyle Factors and Chronic Diseases Dietary and Type 2 Dental Birth Metabolic Sexual lifestyle factors CVD diabetes Cancer disease Fracture Cataract defects Obesity syndrome Depression dysfunction Avoid smoking Pursue physical activity Avoid overweight Diet Consume healthy types of fatsa Eat plenty of fruits and vegetables Replace refined grains with whole grains Limit sugarintakeb Limit excessive calories Limit sodium intake Source:Authors’ summary of a review by the WHO and FAO 2003; Bacon and others 2003; Fox 1999; IARC 2002. Note:Bold(cid:1)convincing; Standard (cid:1)probable relation; ↑(cid:1)increase in risk; ↓(cid:1)decrease in risk. a. Replace trans and saturated fats with mono- and polyunsaturated fats, including a regular source of N-3 fatty acids. b. Includes limiting sugar-based beverages. than overweight,overweight (BMI of25 to 30) is typically even experience elevated mortality from cancers ofthe colon,breast more prevalent and also confers elevated risks of many dis- (postmenopausal), kidney, endometrium, and other sites eases. For example, overweight people experience a two- to (Calle and others 2003). threefold elevation in the risks ofCAD and hypertension and a Many people with a BMI of less than 25 have gained sub- more than tenfold increase in the risk oftype 2 diabetes com- stantial weight since they were young adults and are also at pared with lean individuals (BMI less than 23) (Willett,Dietz, increased risk of these diseases, even though they are not and Colditz 1999). Both overweight and obese people also technically overweight (Willett,Dietz,and Colditz 1999).For 834
