Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, food, physical, activity, fat, disease, health, countries, journal, diet, cost, lifestyle, physical activity, percent, use


(BMI less than 23) (Willett,Dietz, increased risk of these diseases, even though they are not and Colditz 1999). Both overweight and obese people also technically overweight (Willett,Dietz,and Colditz 1999).For 834 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Walter C. Willett, Jeffrey P. Koplan, Rachel Nugent, and others example,in rural China,where the average BMI was less than Aspects of the food supply unrelated to its macronutrient 21 for both men and women,F.B.Hu and others (2000) found composition are also likely to be contributing to the global rise that the prevalence of hypertension was nearly five times in obesity.Inexpensive food energy from refined grains,sugar, greater for those with a BMI of approximately 25 than for the and vegetable oils has become extremely plentiful in most leanest people.Because many Asians are experiencing adverse countries. Food manufacturers and suppliers use carefully consequences ofexcess body fat with a BMI ofless than 25,the researched methods to make products based on these cheap definition ofoverweight for Asia has recently been expanded to ingredients maximally convenient and attractive. include a BMI of 23 to 25 . For most people, unless obviously malnourished as an adolescent or young Maintain Daily Physical Activity and Limit Television adult,bodyweight should ideally not increase by more than 2 Watching. Contemporary life in developed nations has Dietz, and Colditz 1999). Thus, a desirable weight for most whether in moving from place to place,in the work environ- people should be within the BMI range of 18.5 to 25.0, and ment, or at home (Koplan and Dietz 1999). Dramatic preferably less than 23. reductions in physical activity are also occurring in developing Additionalvaluableinformationcanbeobtainedbymeas- countries because of urbanization, increased availability of uringwaistcircumference,whichreflectsabdominalfataccu- motorized transportation to replace walking and bicycle riding, mulation. In many studies, waist circumference is a strong and mechanization oflabor.However,regular physical activity predictorof CAD,stroke,andtype2diabetes,evenaftercon- is a key element in weight control and prevention of obesity trolling for BMI (Willett, Dietz, and Colditz 1999). A waist (IARC 2002;Swinburn and others 2004).For example,among circumference of approximately 16 centimeters for men and middle-aged West African women, more walking was asso- 14 centimeters for women has been used as the criterion for ciated with a three-unit lower BMI (Sobngwi, Gautier, and the upper limit of the healthy range in the United States,but Mbanya 2003),and in China,car owners are 80 percent more for many people this extent of abdominal fat would be far likely to be obese . above
