Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, food, physical, activity, fat, disease, health, countries, journal, diet, cost, lifestyle, physical activity, percent, use


in the United States,but Mbanya 2003),and in China,car owners are 80 percent more for many people this extent of abdominal fat would be far likely to be obese . above optimal. Because abdominal circumference is easily In addition to its key role in maintaining a healthy weight, assessed,evenwherescalesmaynotbeavailable,furtherwork regular physical activity reduces the risk ofCAD,stroke,type 2 todeveloplocallyappropriatecriteriacouldbeworthwhile.In diabetes, colon and breast cancer, osteoporotic fractures, the meantime, increases of more than 5 centimeters can be osteoarthritis,depression,and erectile dysfunction (table 44.1). usedasabasisforrecommendingchangesinactivitypatterns Important health benefits have even been associated with walk- anddiet. ing for half an hour per day,but greater reductions in risk are Views about the causes of obesity and ways to prevent or seen with longer durations of physical activity and more reduce it have been controversial.Diets low in fat and high in intense activity. carbohydrates were believed to limit caloric intake sponta- The number ofhours oftelevision watched per day is asso- neously and thus to control adiposity,but such diets have not ciated with increased obesity rates among both children and reduced bodyweight in trials that have lasted for a year or more adults (Hernandez and others 1999; Ruangdaraganon and (Willett and Leibel 2002).Some researchers have suggested that others 2002) and with a higher risk oftype 2 diabetes and gall- diets with a high energy density, referring to the amount of stones (F.B.Hu,Leitzmann,and others 2001;Leitzmann and energy per volume, offer an alternative explanation for the others 1999). This association is likely attributable both to observed increases in obesity (Swinburn and others 2004),but reduced physical activity and to increased consumption of long-term studies have not examined this theory. Sugar- foods and beverages high in calories,which are typically those sweetened beverages contribute significantly to the overcon- promoted on television. Decreases in television watching sumption of calories, in part because calories in fluid form reduce weight ,and the American Academy of appear to be poorly regulated by the body (E.A.Bell,Roe,and Pediatrics recommends a maximum oftwo hours oftelevision Rolls 2003). In children, an increase in soda consumption of watching per day. one serving per day was associated with an odds ratio of1.6 for incidence ofobesity (Ludwig,Peterson,and Gortmaker 2001), Eat a Healthy Diet. Medical experts have long recognized the and in a randomized trial,replacement ofa standard soda with effects ofdiet on the risk ofCVD,but the relationship between a zero-calorie diet soda was associated with significant weight diet and many other conditions,including specific cancers,dia- loss (Raben
