Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, food, physical, activity, fat, disease, health, countries, journal, diet, cost, lifestyle, physical activity, percent, use


standard soda with effects ofdiet on the risk ofCVD,but the relationship between a zero-calorie diet soda was associated with significant weight diet and many other conditions,including specific cancers,dia- loss (Raben and others 2002).Reductions in dietary fiber and betes, cataracts, macular degeneration, cholelithiasis, renal increases in the dietary glycemic load (large amounts ofrapidly stones,dental disease,and birth defects,have been documented absorbed carbohydrates from refined starches and sugar) may more recently. The following list discusses six aspects of diet also contribute to obesity (Ebbeling and others 2003;Swinburn forwhich strong evidence indicates important health implica- and others 2004). tions (table 44.1). These goals are consistent with a detailed Prevention of Chronic Disease by Means of Diet and Lifestyle Changes | 835 FAO2003). China,approximately half the adult population is deficient in folic acid (Hao and others 2003). • Replace saturated and trans fats with unsaturated fats, • Consume cereal products in their whole-grain, high-fiber includingsourcesofomega-3fattyacids.Replacingsaturated form. Consuming grains in a whole-grain,high-fiber form fatswithunsaturatedfatswillreducetheriskofCAD(F.B. has double benefits.First,consumption offiber from cereal HuandWillett2002;InstituteofMedicine2002;WHOand products has consistently been associated with lower risks of FAO 2003) by reducing serum low-density lipoprotein CAD and type 2 diabetes (F.B.Hu,van Dam,and Liu 2001; (LDL)cholesterol.Also,polyunsaturatedfats(includingthe F.B.Hu and Willett 2002),which may be because of both long-chain omega-3 fish oils and probably alpha-linoleic the fiber itselfand the vitamins and minerals naturally pres- acid, the primary plant omega-3 fatty acid) can prevent ent in whole grains.High consumption of refined starches ventriculararrhythmiasandtherebyreducefatalCAD.Ina exacerbates the metabolic syndrome and is associated with case-control study in Costa Rica, where fish intake was higher risks ofCAD (F.B.Hu and Willett 2002) and type 2 extremelylow,theriskofmyocardialinfarctionwas80per- diabetes (F.B.Hu,van Dam,and Liu 2001).Second,higher cent lower in those with the highest alpha-linoleic acid consumption of dietary fiber also appears to facilitate intake (Baylin and others 2003). Intakes of omega-3 fatty weight control (Swinburn and others 2004) and helps pre- acids are suboptimal in many populations, particularly if vent constipation. fishintakeislowandtheprimaryoilsconsumedarelowin • Limit consumption ofsugar and sugar-based beverages.Sugar omega-3 fatty acids (for example, partially hydrogenated (free sugars refined from sugarcane or sugar beets and high- soybean, corn, sunflower, or palm oil). These findings fructose corn sweeteners) has no nutritional value except for used for food preparation are often quite feasible and not at risk ofoverweight.Furthermore,sugar contributes to the expensive. dietary glycemic load,which exacerbates the metabolic syn- Transfattyacidsproducedbythepartialhydrogenation drome and is related to the risk ofdiabetes and CAD (F.B. of vegetable oils have uniquely adverse effects on blood Hu,
