Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, food, physical, activity, fat, disease, health, countries, journal, diet, cost, lifestyle, physical activity, percent, use


expensive. dietary glycemic load,which exacerbates the metabolic syn- Transfattyacidsproducedbythepartialhydrogenation drome and is related to the risk ofdiabetes and CAD (F.B. of vegetable oils have uniquely adverse effects on blood Hu, van Dam, and Liu 2001; F. B. Hu and Willett 2002; lipids (F. B. Hu and Willett 2002; Institute of Medicine Schulze and others 2004). WHO has suggested an upper 2002) and increase risks of CAD (F. B. Hu and Willett limit of 10 percent of energy from sugar,but lower intakes 2002);onagram-for-grambasis,boththeeffectsonblood are usually desirable because ofthe adverse metabolic effects lipids and the relationship with CAD risk are considerably and empty calories. more adverse than for saturated fat. In many developing • Limit excessive caloric intake from any source. Given the countries, trans fat consumption is high because partially importance of obesity and overweight in the causation of hydrogenatedsoybeanoilisamongthecheapestfatsavail- many chronic diseases, avoiding excessive consumption able. In South Asia, vegetable ghee, which has largely of energy from any source is fundamentally important. replaced traditional ghee, contains approximately 50 per- Because calories consumed as beverages are less well- cent trans fatty acids (Ascherio and others 1996). regulated than calories from solid food, limiting the con- Independentofotherriskfactors,higherintakesoftransfat sumption of sugar-sweetened beverages is particularly and lower intakes of polyunsaturated fat increase risk of important. type2diabetes(F.B.Hu,vanDam,andLiu2001). • Limit sodium intake.The principle justification for limiting • Ensuregenerous consumption offruits and vegetables and ade- sodium is its effect on blood pressure, a major risk factor quate folic acid intake.Strong evidence indicates that high for stroke and coronary disease (chapter 33). WHO has intakes offruits and vegetables will reduce the risk ofCAD suggested an upper limit of 1.7 grams of sodium per day and stroke .Some of this benefit is mediated (5grams ofsalt per day) (WHO and FAO 2003). by higher intakes ofpotassium,but folic acid probably also plays a role (F. B. Hu and Willett 2002). Supplementation with folic acid reduces the risk of neural tube defect preg- Potential of Dietary and Lifestyle Factors to Prevent nancies. Substantial evidence also suggests that low folic ChronicDiseases acid intake is associated with greater risk of colon—and possibly breast—cancer and that use of multiple vitamins Several lines ofevidence indicate that realistic modifications of containing folic acid reduces the risk of these cancers diet and lifestyle can prevent most CAD,stroke,diabetes,colon . Findings relating folic acid intake to cancer, and smoking-related cancers. Less progress has been CVD and some cancers have major
