Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, food, physical, activity, fat, disease, health, countries, journal, diet, cost, lifestyle, physical activity, percent, use


these cancers diet and lifestyle can prevent most CAD,stroke,diabetes,colon . Findings relating folic acid intake to cancer, and smoking-related cancers. Less progress has been CVD and some cancers have major implications for many made in identifying practically modifiable causes ofbreast and parts ofthe developing world.In many areas,consumption prostate cancers. 836 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Walter C. Willett, Jeffrey P. Koplan, Rachel Nugent, and others Box 44.2 Success in Finland Finland provides one of the best-documented examples cant improvements were documented in smoking,choles- of a community intervention. In 1972, Finland had the terol, and blood pressure. By 1992, CVD mortality rates world’s highest CVD mortality rate. Planners examined for men age 35 to 64 had dropped by 57 percent.The pro- the policy and environmental factors contributing to CVD gram was so successful that it was expanded to include and sought appropriate changes,such as increased avail- other lifestyle-related diseases. Twenty years later, major ability of low-fat dairy products,antismoking legislation, reductions in CVD risk-factor levels,morbidity,and mor- and improved school meals.They used the media;schools; tality were attributed to the project. Recent data show a worksites;and spokespersons from sports,education,and 75 percent decrease in CVD mortality (Puska and others agriculture to educate residents. After five years, signifi- 1998). One line of evidence is based on declines in CAD in coun- INTERVENTIONS tries that have implemented preventive programs. Rates of Interventions aimed at changing diet and lifestyle factors CAD mortality have been cut in half in several high-income include educating individuals, changing the environment, countries, including Australia, the United Kingdom, and the modifyingthefoodsupply,undertakingcommunityinterven- United States. The most dramatic example is that of Finland tions, and implementing economic policies. In most cases, (box 44.2). quantifying the effects of the intervention is difficult,because Other evidence derives from randomized intervention behavioral changes may take many years and synergies are studies.Theseoftenhaveseriouslimitationsforestimatingthe potentially important but hard to estimate in formal studies. potentialmagnitudeof benefits,becausetypicallyonlyoneor Substantial nihilism often exists regarding the ability to a few factors are modified, durations are usually only a few changepopulations’dietsorbehaviors,butmajorchangesare years, and noncompliance with lifestyle change is often sub- possible over extended periods of time. For example, per stantial. Nevertheless, some examples are illustrative of the capita egg consumption in the United States decreased from potential benefit. In two randomized studies among adults approximately 420 to 270 per year between 1940 and 1990 at high risk of type 2 diabetes, those assigned to a program
