Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, food, physical, activity, fat, disease, health, countries, journal, diet, cost, lifestyle, physical activity, percent, use


potential benefit. In two randomized studies among adults approximately 420 to 270 per year between 1940 and 1990 at high risk of type 2 diabetes, those assigned to a program following recommendations for preventing CAD (though in emphasizingdietarychanges,weightloss,andphysicalactivity reality, the evidence for benefits was meager). Similarly, the experienced only half the risk of incident diabetes (Knowler prevalenceof smoking,despiteitsbeingaphysicallyaddictive and others 2002; Tuomilehto and others 2001). The Lyon behavior, halved among men in the United States between Heart Study,conducted among those with existing heart dis- 1965and2000.Becausechangingbehaviorsrelatedtodietand ease, found a Mediterranean-type diet high in omega-3 fatty lifestyle require sustained efforts, long-term persistence is acids reduced recurrent infarction by 70 percent compared needed.However,opportunitiesexistthatdonotrequireindi- with an American Heart Association diet (de Lorgeril and vidual behavior changes, and these can lead to more rapid others1994). benefits. A third approach is to estimate the percentage of disease that is potentially preventable by reducing multiple behavioral risk factors using prospective cohort studies. Among U.S. Educational Interventions adults, more than 90 percent of type 2 diabetes, 80 percent Efforts to change diets, physical activity patterns, and other of CAD,70 percent of stroke,and 70 percent of colon cancer aspects oflifestyle have traditionally attempted to educate indi- avoidance of overweight, moderate physical activity, healthy general media.These efforts will continue to play an important diet,and moderate alcohol consumption . role,but they can be strongly reinforced by policy and environ- Collectively, these findings indicate that the low rates of mental changes. these diseases suggested by international comparisons and time trends are attainable by realistic, moderate changes that are School-Based Programs. School-based programs include the compatible with 21st-century lifestyles. roles ofnutrition and physical activity in maintaining physical Prevention of Chronic Disease by Means of Diet and Lifestyle Changes | 837 Box 44.3 The Planet Health Program vision viewing time with the long-range goal of prevent- dent reflection about enjoyable activities that could ing unhealthy weight gain (Gortmaker and others 1999). replace at least a portion ofthe time they spend watching Teachers incorporate messages about reducing television television are key elements.This program has reduced tel- watching, nutritious, and increasing fitness into mathe- evision watching and weight in girls (Gortmaker and oth- matics, social studies, science, and language arts lessons. ers 1999).Because theprogram is integrated into existing Fitness units and periodic “FitChecks” during physical classes,its cost is minimal. Box 44.4 Live for Life® Johnson & Johnson introduced Live for Life in 1979 with were offered
