Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, food, physical, activity, fat, disease, health, countries, journal, diet, cost, lifestyle, physical activity, percent, use


into existing Fitness units and periodic “FitChecks” during physical classes,its cost is minimal. Box 44.4 Live for Life® Johnson & Johnson introduced Live for Life in 1979 with were offered US$500 in benefit credits for participation. company integrated its health and wellness program with support when returning to work after a major illness.Even its disability management,employee assistance,and occu- though the intervention program had little effect on body- pational medicine programs. Instead of using physicians weight, physical fitness did increase. By the end of the and nurses to treat symptoms, the combined program third year, savings to the company were more than sought to use a variety of health professionals to change US$400 per year per employee. individual behavior and improve health status.Employees and mental health (box 44.3).School food services should pro- programs during breaks or after work;improving the physical because they provide a special opportunity to teach by exam- foods in cafeterias (box 44.4).Worksite health promotion can remains a significant source ofphysical activity for young peo- costs and fewer sick days. ple.In China,72 percent ofchildren age 6 to 18 engage in mod- eratetovigorousphysicalactivityforamedianof90to100min- Interventions by Health Care Providers. Controlled inter- utes per week (Tudor-Locke and others 2003). Maintaining vention trials for smoking cessation and physical activity have likely contributed to the historically low rates ofobesity in such by supporting written material,can be efficacious in modifying countries. behavior.Studies of dietary counseling by physicians indicate that even brief messages about nutrition can influence behav- Worksite Interventions. Worksite interventions can effi- ior and that the magnitude ofthe effect is related to the inten- ciently include a wide variety of health promotion activities sity ofthe intervention (Pignone and others 2003).Identifying because workers spend a large portion of their waking hours patients who are overweight or obese, or who are gaining and eat a large percentage oftheir food there.Interventions can weight but are not yet overweight,is an initial step in prevent- include educating employees; screening them for behavioral ing and treating overweight.However,many physicians are not risk factors;offering incentive programs to walk,ride a bicycle, well trained to measure and calculate BMI and identify weight or take public transportation to work; offering exercise problems. 838 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Walter C. Willett, Jeffrey P. Koplan, Rachel Nugent, and others Box 44.5 Reducing Automobile Use in Brazil Curitiba,Brazil,provides an example of the benefits of a are used to quickly and efficiently transport individuals strategy
