Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, food, physical, activity, fat, disease, health, countries, journal, diet, cost, lifestyle, physical activity, percent, use


P. Koplan, Rachel Nugent, and others Box 44.5 Reducing Automobile Use in Brazil Curitiba,Brazil,provides an example of the benefits of a are used to quickly and efficiently transport individuals strategy that reduces automobile use and increases use of from residential neighborhoods to express bus lines.These public transportation. In 1965, city planners adopted a bus lines run almost every 90 seconds and can carry up to master plan that promoted development along designated 270 passengers each.Compared with other Brazilian cities corridors along with a bus system so efficient that it has ofitssize,Curitibauses30percentlessgasolinepercapita, virtually eliminated the need for automobiles.Minibuses and its air pollution is among the lowest in the nation. Transportation Policy and Environmental Design developed to discourage private automobile use and to promote public transportation, walking, and bicycling (see Transportation policies and the design ofurban environments box 44.5). Singapore has long been in the lead in relation to are fundamental determinants of physical activity and there- such efforts:a combination oflimiting the number oflicenses fore influence the risks of obesity and other chronic diseases. issued,implementing a vehicle quota system,and introducing Countries can take a number ofsteps to make positive changes. a road pricing system has limited personal car ownership and congestion throughout the country.Other nations and regions Limit the Role of Automobiles. In wealthy countries, the are now enacting similar road pricing systems or congestion automobile has strongly influenced the trend toward low- taxes.For example,London’s congestion charging system levies density,automobile-based suburban developments,many built a fee of approximately US$8 per day for cars entering central without sidewalks. These sprawling settlements tend to have London. Since its inception in 2003, the charge has reduced few services within walking distance and are usually not linked congestion in the city and is expected to channel funds back to public transporationt. Dependence on automobiles affects into the city’s transportation facilities. physical activity,because those who use public transportation Unfortunately some countries, particularly China, have tend to walk more.In a prospective study in eight provinces in taken a different approach to their future transportation needs. China,14 percent of households acquired a car between 1889 Government initiatives that encourage families to buy automo- and 1997, and the likelihood of men becoming obese during biles include lowering taxes, simplifying registration proce- the same period was twice as great in households that acquired dures, and allowing foreign financing. In Beijing alone, resi- a car than in those that did not (A. C.
