Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, food, physical, activity, fat, disease, health, countries, journal, diet, cost, lifestyle, physical activity, percent, use


the same period was twice as great in households that acquired dures, and allowing foreign financing. In Beijing alone, resi- a car than in those that did not (A. C. Bell, Ge, and Popkin dents purchased 400,000 cars in 2003. 2002). National policies strongly influence automobile use and dependency. In the United States, low taxes on gasoline, free PromoteWalkingandBicycleRiding. Walkingorcyclingfor parking, and wide streets encourage car ownership: almost transportationandleisureareeffectiveandpracticalmeansof 92percent ofU.S.households own at least one car,and 59 per- engaging in physical activity and are still the most common cent own two or more cars (Pucher and Dijkstra 2003). In ways to travel in many developing countries.In Bangkok and contrast, in most of Western Europe, narrow streets, limited Manila,only25percentoftravelisbycar,motorcycle,ortaxi, parking,and high gasoline prices make the costs ofautomobile comparedwith75percentbypublictransportationorwalking use almost double those in the United States (Pucher and (Pendakur2000).InMadras,India,only8percentofthepop- Dijkstra 2003).As a result,Europeans walk or bike more and ulation travels by private, motorized transportation; 22 per- use their cars approximately 50 percent less than their cent of people walk; 20 percent bike; and the rest use public American counterparts. Investment in roads rather than in transportation . In China, approximately public transportation creates a vicious cycle:poor public trans- 90percentof theurbanpopulationwalksorridesabicycleto portation systems lead to more dependency on the automobile. work,shopping,orschooleachday(G.Huandothers2002). As car use grows,injuries and deaths associated with auto- Walking or biking is more likely to be prevalent in smaller mobile accidents also grow. In China, the number of four- cities—thatis,thosewith1millionto5millionpeople—than wheeled vehicles increased from about 60,000 to more than inlargerones. 50 million between 1951 and 1999, and traffic fatalities Bicycle riding and walking are also important for children’s and others 2003). Many innovative strategies have been even when distances are short (box 44.6).In contrast,almost Prevention of Chronic Disease by Means of Diet and Lifestyle Changes | 839 Box 44.6 Walking and Cycling to School One of the most effective ways to promote walking and walking routes and proposed solutions for problem areas. cycling is through local schools.The Safe Routes to School The program also sponsors walk- and bike-to-school days, program ( estab- frequent-rider contests, and other promotional events lished in Marin County, California, is a private-public (Staunton,Hubsmith,and Kallins 2003). partnership that created a citywide map ofsafe biking and 90percent ofChinese children under 12 walk or ride a bicycle linked to decreases in mental health and social capital to school . as well as anger and frustration over long com- In
