Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, food, physical, activity, fat, disease, health, countries, journal, diet, cost, lifestyle, physical activity, percent, use


children under 12 walk or ride a bicycle linked to decreases in mental health and social capital to school . as well as anger and frustration over long com- In many areas,the shift toward private car use has not yet mutes (Surface Transportation Policy Project 1999). Sprawl begun and can perhaps be forestalled by policies that benefit adversely affects the elderly in particular because they are walkers and cyclists rather than drivers.Such policies include unable to walk to places of interest and many cannot drive. implementing road designs that promote a safe and well-lit Such isolation does not promote good physical or mental measures to reduce automobile speeds. The so-called smart growth movement has resulted from Many Western European countries have taken steps to concerns about urban sprawl and unsustainable development increase safety for cyclists and walkers. In Germany and the and is encouraging governments worldwide to rethink how Netherlands,bike paths serve as travel routes,not just weekend they develop new areas and redevelop older suburbs and cities. former countries have invested heavily in bike paths and have pact building designs,including a range oftransportation and also created extensive car-free areas in cities,with well-lit side- housing choices, building walker-friendly neighborhoods in walks, clearly marked crosswalks, and pedestrian islands that attractive communities with a distinctive sense of place, and have improved safety.Both countries have increased the num- implementing a philosophy of directing development toward ber ofbicycle-friendly streets (on which cars are permitted but existing communities and the preservation of open space bicycles have the right ofway) and have created systems to sep- (Office ofthe Administrator 2001) (box 44.7). cles.A meta-analysis ofselected traffic-calming studies in many portation planning and building design is becoming more injuries,and fatalities and an increase in bicycle use and walk- on proposed options for transportation policy showed the ing (Bunn and others 2003). effects of specific choices on both affluent members of the community and the poor.Its recommendations,now adopted, others’(2002) comprehensive assessment ofrecent research on network, more greenways and park-and-ride programs, and urban planning concludes that a combination ofurban design, more rail transportation or bus services.Priorities are to bene- land-use patterns, and transportation systems that promotes fit pedestrians first,cyclists second,public transportation users walking and bicycling will help create active, healthier, and third, freight and delivery people fourth, and car users last. more livable communities. In densely developed cities that Establishing criteria for building design can also lead to have been
