Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, food, physical, activity, fat, disease, health, countries, journal, diet, cost, lifestyle, physical activity, percent, use


and third, freight and delivery people fourth, and car users last. more livable communities. In densely developed cities that Establishing criteria for building design can also lead to have been built around public transportation rather than away increases in physical activity. For example, increasing signage from it,individuals are much more likely to take public transit, promoting stair use,as well as the attractiveness ofthe facilities walk,or bicycle than in other areas and to weigh less and be less themselves, encourages people to use the stairs (Boutelle and likely to suffer from hypertension (Ewing,Schieber,and Zegeer others 2001) (box 44.8). 2003;Lopez 2004;Saelens,Sallis,and Frank 2003). Those living in walker-friendly neighborhoods also appear Improved Food Supply to be more mentally healthy and are more likely to know their neighbors,to be socially active,and to participate in the politi- People’s diets can be enhanced by improving the food supply. cal process .In contrast,urban sprawl has been The usual position of the food industry is that it simply 840 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Walter C. Willett, Jeffrey P. Koplan, Rachel Nugent, and others Box 44.7 Enhancing Urban Life in the Republic of Korea In Seoul,the government is managing growth by creating the balance of employment away from one centralized six satellite communities with high-rise residential build- location to provide a more regional balance. Major ings outside the city center. These communities are expressways are being removed to create parks,sidewalks, intended to become new job-creation centers and to shift and bikeways ( Box 44.8 Promoting Physical Activity in Brazil One successful example ofincreasing activity is Agita São message is displayed on electricity bills and stickers,and it Paulo,a multilevel physical activity initiative designed for is touted by radio stations and other media outlets. the 34 million citizens ofBrazil’s São Paulo state (Matsudo After four years, 55.7 percent of those surveyed had and others2002).The program was launched in 1996 to heard about Agita,37 percent knew its purpose,and those increase the public’s knowledge ofthe benefits ofexercise who knew ofthe program’s purpose were more likely to be and expand participation in physical fitness activities by active. Agita appears to have played a role in increasing encouraging people to do 30 minutes ofmoderate activity activity in the region (Matsudo and others 2002). It is at least five times a week.As elsewhere,program designers closely linked to a national program to promote healthy perceived a lack of time as the major factor
