Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, food, physical, activity, fat, disease, health, countries, journal, diet, cost, lifestyle, physical activity, percent, use


others 2002). It is at least five times a week.As elsewhere,program designers closely linked to a national program to promote healthy perceived a lack of time as the major factor preventing diets and active lifestyles by nutritional content labeling, daily exercise.They chose three settings as places to pro- promotion of healthy diets in schools,communication of mote activity:home (gardening,chores,avoidance oftele- guidelines for healthy eating,and encouragement ofinno- vision watching); transportation (walking, taking the vative community-based initiatives (Coitinho, Monteiro, stairs); and leisure time (dancing).Agitol, a prescription and Popkin 2002). for exercise,was developed for physicians to dispense.Its provides whatever consumers demand, but this argument is Drug Administration announced that food manufacturers had misleading,because the industry spends more than US$12 bil- to include trans fatty acid content on the standard food label. lion annually to influence consumer choices just within the Following imposition of this requirement, several large food United States and many times this amount globally.Much of companies said that they would reduce or eliminate trans fats, children are primary targets. Administration 2003).In Mauritius,the government required a change in the commonly used cooking oil from mostly palm Improving Processing and Manufacturing. Altering the oil to soybean oil,which changed people’s fatty acid intake and manufacturing process can rapidly and effectively improve reduced their serum cholesterol levels (Uusitalo and others diets because such action does not require the slow process of 1996).Changes in types offat can often be almost invisible and behavioral change. One example is eliminating the partial inexpensive. Omega-3 fatty acid intakes can be increased by hydrogenation of vegetable oils, which destroys essential incorporating oils from rapeseed, mustard, or soybean into omega-3 fatty acids and creates trans fatty acids. European manufactured foods,cooking oils sold for use at home,or both. manufacturers have largely eliminated trans fatty acids from Selective breeding and genetic engineering provide alternative their food supply by altering production methods. ways to improve the healthfulness of oils by modifying their Regulations can facilitate changes in manufacturing directly fatty acid composition. or indirectly by providing an incentive for manufacturers to When the consumption of processed food is high,a reduc- change their processes.For example,in 2003,the U.S.Food and tion in salt consumption will usually require changes at the Prevention of Chronic Disease by Means of Diet and Lifestyle Changes | 841 manufacturing level, because processed food is a major salt Another strategy is to protect consumers from aggressive source. If the salt content of foods is
