Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, food, physical, activity, fat, disease, health, countries, journal, diet, cost, lifestyle, physical activity, percent, use


and Lifestyle Changes | 841 manufacturing level, because processed food is a major salt Another strategy is to protect consumers from aggressive source. If the salt content of foods is reduced gradually, the marketing ofunhealthy foods.Producers spend billions ofdol- change is imperceptible to consumers. Coordination among lars a year encouraging children to consume foods that are manufacturers or government regulation is needed;otherwise detrimental to their health.Manufacturers and fast-food chains producers whose foods are lower in salt may be placed at a dis- personify food products with cartoon characters;display food advantage. Unfortunately, good examples are not available. brands on toys;and issue “educational”card games that subvert Another example of improved processing would be to reduce children’s natural gift for play,story telling,and make believe. the refining of grain products, which can be done in small, The willingness to limit advertising depends on a country’s almost invisible decrements. political culture, but the public clearly distinguishes between advertising aimed at adults and that targeted at children.For example, in the United States, 46 percent of adults surveyed Fortifying Food. Food fortification has eliminated iodine supported restrictions on advertising to children (Blendon deficiency, pellagra, and beriberi in much of the world. In 2002). Restrictions can range from banning advertising to regions where iodine deficiency remains a serious problem, children to limiting the types ofproducts that advertisers may fortification should be a high priority.Folic acid intake is sub- promote to this audience. optimal in many regions of both developing and developed countries. Fortifying foods with folic acid is extremely inex- pensive and could substantially reduce the rates of several Initiatives at the Community Level chronic diseases. Grain products—such as flour, rice, and Nations and regions can promote a variety of initiatives to pasta—are usually the best foods to fortify,and in many coun- encourage greater physical activity and better nutrition.These tries, they are already being fortified with other B vitamins. initiatives are likely to be most effective when they are multi- Since 1998, grain products in the United States have been faceted and coordinated and when they are developed with the fortified with folic acid, which has almost eliminated folate active involvement of individuals and organizations within deficiency, and rates of neural tube defect pregnancies have communities (Puska and others 1998). declined by about 19 percent (Honein and others 2001).Where Many countries are undertaking efforts to educate their intakes of vitamins B12 and B6 are also low and contribute
