Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, food, physical, activity, fat, disease, health, countries, journal, diet, cost, lifestyle, physical activity, percent, use


saving 680 1,403 Table44.2presentstheresultsofacost-effectivenessanalysis 4b Cost saving 911 1,865 assumingthetwodifferentestimatesforCADreduction:7per- 1 258 3,572 7,188 centand40percent.WeusedcostsofUS$0.50peradultperyear, Source:Authors’ calculations. which was the maximal cost in the U.S. Food and Drug a. Threshold analysis reveals that at the base assumption of US$6 for the intervention, no level in Administrationanalysis,andofUS$6.00peradultperyearusing the range of assumed CAD reduction is cost saving. b. Threshold analysis reveals that at a cost below US$0.36 per individual and a 4 percent traditionalhealtheducationapproaches.Thelowerestimate— reduction in CAD (base assumption), the intervention is cost saving. oroneevenlower—ispossiblebecausetransfatcanbeelimi- natedatthesourceratherthandependingentirelyonchangesin with polyunsaturated fat was estimated to reduce CAD by 7 individualbehavior.Withthelowercost,thesmallereffectesti- to 8 percent (Grundy 1992; Willett and Ascherio 1994). mateleadstoacost-effectivenessratioof betweenUS$25and Epidemiological studies, which include the contributions of US$73perDALYaverted,dependingontheregion,andwiththe the additional causal pathways,suggest a much greater reduc- higher-effectestimate,theinterventioncanbecostsaving. tion,from about 25 to 40 percent (F.B.Hu and others 1997; Oomen and others 2001).Another likely benefit is a reduction Reducing the Salt Content of Manufactured Foods through in the incidence of type 2 diabetes:estimates indicate that the Legislation and an Accompanying Education Campaign. same 2 percent reduction would reduce incidence by 40 percent Table 44.2shows the base-case cost-effectiveness ofa legislated (Salmeron and others 2001). reduction in salt content.The intervention appears to be rela- Because voluntary action by industry (as has nearly been tively cost-effective,with a cost per DALY averted ofUS$1,325 achieved in the Netherlands) or by regulation (as occurred in in South Asia to US$3,056 in the Middle East and North Africa. Denmark) can eliminate partially hydrogenated fat from the Those regional variations are attributable to differing risk pro- diet,this initiative does not require consumer education,and files across regions as well as to price differentials for the costs the costs can be extremely low.In an analysis required before oftreating disease sequelae. implementing food labeling, the U.S. Food and Drug The actual blood pressure reduction from lower salt con- Administration (2003) estimated that trans fat labeling would sumption could vary from the base-case assumption,as could be highly cost-effective.Even though the effect oflabeling itself the costs of the education campaign. Table 44.4 shows the Prevention of Chronic Disease by Means of Diet and Lifestyle Changes | 845 Table 44.4 Two-Way Sensitivity Analysis of the Costs of the andwithoutriskfactorsfornoncommunicablediseases(phys- Intervention to Reduce Salt Content and Its Effectiveness, icalactivity,BMI,andsmokingstatus)andfindthatahealthi- South Asia erlifestyleofphysicalactivitythreetimesperweek,amoderate (US$/DALY averted) 49percentcomparedwithanunhealthylifestyle. Blood pressure Cost per individual reduction (millimeters of mercury) US$1a US$3 US$6 Cost-Effectiveness of Community-Based Interventions 4 9 308 608 Populationwide and community-based interventions appear to
