Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, food, physical, activity, fat, disease, health, countries, journal, diet, cost, lifestyle, physical activity, percent, use


erlifestyleofphysicalactivitythreetimesperweek,amoderate (US$/DALY averted) 49percentcomparedwithanunhealthylifestyle. Blood pressure Cost per individual reduction (millimeters of mercury) US$1a US$3 US$6 Cost-Effectiveness of Community-Based Interventions 4 9 308 608 Populationwide and community-based interventions appear to 3 49 448 847 be cost-effective if they reach large populations,address high- 2b 129 727 1,326 mortality and high-morbidity diseases,and are multipronged 1 368 1,565 2,761 and integrated efforts. The full costs of achieving changes in behavior and policy are often complex and difficult to estimate. Source:Authors’ calculations. a. Threshold analysis reveals that at a cost of US$1 per individual, a blood pressure reduction Interventions may yield additional spinoff benefits. For would have to be greater than 5 millimeters of mercury for the intervention to be cost saving. At instance,decisions to reduce children’s television viewing could the base-case assumption of a cost of US$6 for the intervention, there is no cost saving threshold easily improve school outcomes as well as reduce childhood level of reduction. b. Threshold analysis reveals that at a cost of less than US$0.47 per individual the intervention is obesity. Similarly, increasing walking and bicycle riding for cost-saving. transportation could reduce air pollution. results oflower costs ofthe education campaign and higher or RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PRIORITIES lower effects of the intervention on blood pressure. These results may argue for initial efforts to focus on reductions in the A number of research and development priorities have been use of salt during the manufacturing process with no public identified: education campaign.The cost-effectiveness ofsuch a change is high and could be augmented with a public education cam- • Conduct randomized trials of the use of folic acid and paign only ifneeded to support the legislated change.At lower alpha-linoleic acid to prevent CAD in developing countries. implementation costs,the intervention is highly cost-effective, These interventions cost little,and the potential benefits are even with halfthe assumed effect on blood pressure. large and rapid. • Develop prospective cohort studies of dietary and lifestyle Adopting Physical Activity Interventions. Even though factors in developing and transition countries to refine the effective in reducing the risk of lifestyle diseases,no studies of almost all such studies have taken place in Europe and their cost-effectiveness are available from developing countries. North America. Ifpeople walk voluntarily (the model assumes no opportunity • Develop surveillance systems for chronic diseases and for cost),a net economic benefit would accrue to all segments of major risk factors,such as obesity,in developing countries. the U.S.population.Ifwe project
