Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, food, physical, activity, fat, disease, health, countries, journal, diet, cost, lifestyle, physical activity, percent, use


opportunity • Develop surveillance systems for chronic diseases and for cost),a net economic benefit would accrue to all segments of major risk factors,such as obesity,in developing countries. the U.S.population.Ifwe project the economic benefits to the • Develop additional multifaceted, community-based entire U.S. population and assume 25 percent compliance by demonstration programs in developing countries to docu- the sedentary population,the voluntary program would gener- ment the feasibility of lifestyle changes and to learn more ate US$6.8 billion in savings (in 2001 U.S.dollars). about effective strategies. • Conduct detailed cost-effectiveness analyses ofvarious pre- vention strategies to modify dietary and lifestyle factors. Aggregate Costs of Obesity and Unhealthy Lifestyles A series of U.S.studies appears to confirm that the avoidable costsofchronicdiseasesaresubstantial,althoughmanydevel- RECOMMENDED PRIORITY INTERVENTIONS opingcountrieshavenotyetexperiencedthefulldemandson their health sectors resulting from these conditions. Colditz An overall objective is to develop comprehensive national and (1999)estimatesthatobesityisresponsiblefor7percentofall local plans that take advantage ofevery opportunity to encour- U.S.directhealthcarecostsandthatinactivityisresponsiblefor age and promote healthy eating and active living.These plans anadditional2.4percentofallhealthcarecosts.Indirectcosts would involve health care providers;worksites;schools;media; associated with obesity and inactivity account for another urban planners;all levels of food production,processing,and 5 percentof healthcarecosts.Pronkandothers(1999)assess preparation; and governments. The goal is cultural change thedifferenceinhealthcarecostsbetweenadultpatientswith in the direction of healthy living. An important element in 846 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Walter C. Willett, Jeffrey P. Koplan, Rachel Nugent, and others cultural change is national leadership by individuals and by º Implement folic acid fortification if folic acid intake is professional organizations. Specific interventions will depend low. on local physical and cultural conditions and should be based º Ensure that health providersregularly weigh both chil- on careful analysis ofexisting dietary and activity patterns and dren and adult patients, track their weights over time, their determinants;however,the following interventions can be and provide counseling regarding diet and activity if considered (specific interventions for control of smoking are they are already overweight or ifunhealthy weight gain is discussed elsewhere): occurring during adulthood.Those activities should be integrated with programs that address undernutrition. • Physical activity: Health care providers should be encouraged to set a º Develop transportation policies and a physical environ- good example by not smoking, by exercising regularly, ment to promote walking and riding bicycles.This inter- and by eating healthy diets. vention includes constructing sidewalks and protected º Promote healthy foods at worksite food services. bicycle paths and lanes that are attractive, safe, well- Worksites can also promote physical activity by provid- lighted,and functional
