Chapter
KEYWORDS: risk, food, physical, activity, fat, disease, health, countries, journal, diet, cost, lifestyle, physical activity, percent, use


sidewalks and protected º Promote healthy foods at worksite food services. bicycle paths and lanes that are attractive, safe, well- Worksites can also promote physical activity by provid- lighted,and functional with regard to destinations. ing financial incentives for using public transportation º Adopt policies that promote livable, walker-friendly or riding bicycles (and by not subsidizing automobiles communities that include parks and are centered around by providing free parking).Providing areas for exercise access to public transportation. during work breaks and showers may be useful. º Encourage the use ofpublic transportation and discour- º Set standards that restrict the promotion of foods high age overdependence on private automobiles. in sugar,refined starch,and saturated and trans fats to º Promote the use ofstairs.Building codes can require the children on television and elsewhere. inclusion ofaccessible and attractive stairways. º Set national standards for the amount of sodium in • Healthy diets: processed foods. º Develop comprehensive school programs that integrate • National campaigns: nutrition into core curricula and healthy nutrition into º Invest in developing locally appropriate health messages school food services. Regional or national standards to related to diet,physical activity,and weight control.This promote healthy eating should be developed for school effort is best done in cooperation with government agen- food services. Programs should also aim at limiting cies, nongovernmental organizations, and professional television watching, in part by promoting attractive organizations so that consistent messages can be used on º Work with the agriculture sector and food industries to worksites;and elsewhere.This effort should use the best replace unhealthy fats with healthy fats, including ade- social-marketing techniques available, with messages quate amounts of omega-3 fatty acids.This goal can be continuously evaluated for effectiveness. achieved through a combination of education, regula- º Develop a sustainable surveillance system that monitors tion,and incentives.Specific actions will depend on local weight and height, physical activity, and key dietary sources of fat and on regional production and distribu- variables. tion.For example,in areas where palm oil is dominant, research could focus on developing strains that are lower Implementation of the recommended policies to promote in saturated fat and higher in unsaturated fat through health and well-being is often not straightforward because of selective breeding or genetic alteration.Labeling require- oppositionbypowerfulandwell-fundedpoliticalandeconomic ments or regulation can be used to discourage or elimi- forces,suchasthoseinvolvedinthetobacco,automobile,food, nate the use ofpartially hydrogenated vegetable oils and andoilindustries(Nestle2002).Thesolutionswilldependona to promote the use ofnonhydrogenated unsaturated oils country’sspecificpoliticallandscape.However,experiencesin instead. manycountriesindicatethatalliancesofpublicinterestgroups, º Require clear labeling
