Stimulation of Gastrin Secretion and Synthesis
KEYWORDS: gastrin, antral, tryptophan, explants, synthesis, protein, culture, tissue, media, incorporation, control, secretion, dbcamp, experiments, containing


Stimulation of Gastrin Secretion and Synthesis in Antral Organ Culture RIcHARD F. HARTY, JAN C. VAN DER VIJVER, and JAMES E. MCGUIGAN Medicine, Gainesville, Florida 32610 ABSTRACT The purpose ofthe present study was direct demonstration ofgastrin synthesis by rat antral to examine stimulation ofgastrin release and the syn- mucosal explants in organ culture, indicate that thesis ofgastrin directlybymeasurementofincorpora- both gastrin and total antral protein synthesis are in- tionof[3Hltryptophan intogastrininratantralmucosal hibitedbycycloheximide,anddemonstrate DBCAMP- explantsmaintainedinorganculture. Gastrin synthesis inducedstimulationofbothgastrinsynthesisandsecre- andsecretionwereassessedsimultaneouslyatintervals tion, suggesting thepotentially importantroleofcyclic over the 24-h duration of explant culture. Antral AMP in gastrin cell function. mucosal explants from fed female Wistar rats (4-5 wk, 100-150g) were cultured at 37°C (95% 0/5% INTRODUCTION CO2) in medium containing 70% Trowell-T8 and 10% NCTC-135 without unlabeled tryptophan, 10% di- Modem gastrointestinal endocrinology became firmly alyzed fetal calfserum and [3HItryptophan (100 ,uCi/ established as a scientific discipline in 1964 when ml). Antral tissue was harvested at regular intervals GregoryandTracyisolatedpuregastrinfromhogantral during 24-h culture periods. Incorporation of [3H]- mucosa (1). These investigators, in collaboration with tryptophan into immunoreactive gastrin was deter- Kenner and co-workers (2), demonstrated that gastrin mined by techniques utilizing double-antibody im- was a polypeptide and identified the amino acid com- munoprecipitation. Antral tissue protein synthesis position and sequence ofgastrin, thus permitting sub- was assessed by measurements of incorporation of sequent synthesis of the hormone (3). Immunohisto- [3H]tryptophan into tissue protein of cultured antral chemical techniques have been utilized to localize explants. In paired experiments, gastrin synthesis cells that contain gastrin (G cells)' in the pyloric and secretion in the presence of dibutyryl cAMP glands ofthe antrum and the proximal duodenum (4). (DBCAMP) were compared to those observed under The development of a radioimmunoassay for gastrin control conditions. Gastrin and protein specific has provided a sensitive and specific method for the activity progressively increased with time. Gastrin measurement ofgastrin both in tissue extracts and in specific activity at 30 min increased from 3.3+0.5 body fluids (5-7). Molecular heterogeneity applies (SEM) to 55.2±10.6 fmol [3H]tryptophan/pmol gas- to gastrin, as for other peptide hormones, such as trin (orfrom 1.57±0.48to26.28±5.05pmol [3H]trypto- insulin, parathyroid hormone and glucagon, each of phan/,ug gastrin) at 24h: specific activity of antral which exists in more than one molecularform. Steiner tissue protein at 30 min increased from 33.6±8.4 etal. have demonstrated incorporation ofradiolabeled to 1,660±236 fmol [3H]tryptophan/,ug protein at 16h. amino acids into insulin (8), and have established the Culturing of explants for 4h in
