Stimulation of Gastrin Secretion and Synthesis
KEYWORDS: gastrin, antral, tryptophan, explants, synthesis, protein, culture, tissue, media, incorporation, control, secretion, dbcamp, experiments, containing


increased from 33.6±8.4 etal. have demonstrated incorporation ofradiolabeled to 1,660±236 fmol [3H]tryptophan/,ug protein at 16h. amino acids into insulin (8), and have established the Culturing of explants for 4h in the presence of precursor relationship ofproinsulin to insulin in cul- cycloheximide (100 ,ig/ml) inhibited both gastrin turedisolatedislets ofLangerhans (9). Glucoseandthe synthesis and protein synthesis -by greater than adenylate cyclase-cyclic nucleotide system have been 90 and 95%, respectively. DBCAMP (10 mM) signif- shown to be important interrelated factors in stimulat- icantly increased both the synthesis and secretion ing release and synthesis of insulin (10, 11). In vitro of antral gastrin when compared with control cul- organtissueculturetechniqueshavebeenemployedto tured explants. Results of these experiments provide 'Abbreviations used in this paper: DBCAMP, dibutyryl Receivedforpublication 22July 1976andinrevisedform cyclic AMP; G cell, gastrin cell; G-17, human gastrin I; 21 March 1977. G-34, purified humanbiggastrin I. TheJournal ofClinical Investigation Volume 60 July 1977 51-60 51 studyvariousfunctionalandmorphologicalcharacteris- mucosal explants in organ culture, the basal culture medium tics ofstomach (12),small intestine (13),andcolon (14). was modifiedtocontain70%Trowell-T8withouttryptophan, 10% NCTC-135 without tryptophan, 10%o dialyzed fetal calf The purpose of the present investigation was to serum,and10% [3H]tryptophan(100,uCi/mlmedium).Antral examine directly stimulation and inhibition ofgastrin explants were cultured in control medium containing synthesis and gastrin secretion by rat antral mucosal [3H]tryptophan and subsequently harvested in the manner explants in an in vitro system employing organ cul- aspreviously described. Theculture medium usedforthese ture techniques. The incorporation of [3H]tryptophan experiments was prepared specifically to minimize the presenceofunlabeledtryptophan.Thiswasaccomplishedby into gastrin and antral tissue protein was studied as a the use of tryptophan-free culture medium and fetal calf function oftime, and the effects ofcycloheximide on serum which was dialyzed to remove low molecular weight gastrin synthesis and antral tissue protein synthesis substancesincludingaminoacids.Tritum-labeledtryptophan, were determined. In addition, the effects ofthe dibu- at 100 ,uCi/ml, was added to the medium. L-[G-3H]Trypto- phan (7 Ci/mmol), with a radiochemical purity of99% (New tyryl derivative of cyclic AMP on gastrin synthesis England Nuclear Boston, Mass.) was prepared in sterile and secretion were examined. water. Analytical procedures. By boiling explants in 2.5 ml METHODS deionized water for 20 min antral gastrin was extracted. Aftercentrifugationat 1,000g for30minat4°C,thesupemate Organ culture techniques. Antral mucosa was obtained containing extracted gastrin was removed and the sediment from female Wistar rats between 4 and 5 wk of age and was preserved in 0.01 M potassium phosphate buffer, pH weighing100-150g.Nonfastingratsweresacrificedbycervi- 7.4, for protein determination. An aliquot (1.5 ml) of each cal dislocation.
