Stimulation of Gastrin Secretion and Synthesis
KEYWORDS: gastrin, antral, tryptophan, explants, synthesis, protein, culture, tissue, media, incorporation, control, secretion, dbcamp, experiments, containing


between 4 and 5 wk of age and was preserved in 0.01 M potassium phosphate buffer, pH weighing100-150g.Nonfastingratsweresacrificedbycervi- 7.4, for protein determination. An aliquot (1.5 ml) of each cal dislocation. The abdominal cavity was opened by amid- gastrin extract was applied to a Sephadex G-50 superfine line incision under sterile conditions. A 3-mm ring ofantral gel filtration column (90 x 1.5 cm) and eluted with 0.02 M tissue was excised and opened along the greater curvature. barbitalbuffer,pH 8.4,at4°C. Elutionvolumecharacteristics The excised antral tissue was then washed three times in were determined for the void volume (dextran blue), salt ice-coldHanks'balancedsaltsolution(GrandIsland,Biologi- peak (125I-Na), and for purified human big gastrin I (G-34) cal Co., Grand Island, N. Y.). Residual rat chow adherentto andsynthetic humangastrin I(G-17).G-34gastrinwas akind glass slide. Antral mucosawas dissectedfromthe muscularis pool, England. G-17 was purchased from Imperial Chemical with ano. 15 scalpel blade underthe dissecting microscope. Industries, Ltd. Cheshire, England. The elutionvolume pro- Antral explants measuring to 1-2 mm3 were prepared from file ofthe Sephadex G-50 column for 3H-radioactivity in the antral mucosa and immediately transferred to the organ gastrin extract was also determined: an aliquot (0.1 ml) of culture system. The operative time in preparing the antral each eluted fraction was added to 4 ml ofInstagel (Packard explants was approximately 20min. Instrument Co., Inc., Downers Grove, Ill.) and counted in a Sterile plastic culture dishes (Falcon Plastics, Div. ofBio- Packard liquid scintillation spectrometer, model 3375 (Pack- Quest, Oxnard, Calif.) measuring 55 mm in diameter were ard Instrument Co., Inc.). The counting efficiency of the employed in the culture ofantral explants. Four organ cul- liquid scintillation counter was determined by the method ture grids of stainless steel mesh (Falcon Plastics) were of intemal standardization. Gastrin contents of individual placed in each dish. 0.3-0.4 ml of medium was delivered eluted 2-ml fractions were measured by radioimmunoassay beneath each grid. While explants were being prepared, (15). The five eluted 2-ml fractions containing the immuno- culture dishes with grids and medium were kept on ice. reactive gastrin peak were pooled and gastrin concen- One antral explant was placed on each grid and oriented trations were remeasured by radioimmunoassay. with the mucosa up and edges flat. Coverage ofexplants by Incorporation of [3Hltryptophan into gastrin was deter- culture medium wasmaintainedbycapillaryaction. Thecul- mined by techniques utilizing double-antibody immuno- ture dishes were covered and placed inside a glass petri precipitation. After separation by Sephadex G-50 column dish containing
