Stimulation of Gastrin Secretion and Synthesis
KEYWORDS: gastrin, antral, tryptophan, explants, synthesis, protein, culture, tissue, media, incorporation, control, secretion, dbcamp, experiments, containing


deter- culture medium wasmaintainedbycapillaryaction. Thecul- mined by techniques utilizing double-antibody immuno- ture dishes were covered and placed inside a glass petri precipitation. After separation by Sephadex G-50 column dish containing cotton saturated with 0.85% NaCl. Each chromatography pooled fractions containing gastrin were coveredpetri dish was then placed inside aTorbal cannister incubated for 72 h at 40C with rabbit antibodies to (Torsion Balance Co., Clifton, N. J.) and gassed for 20 min synthetic human gastrin I (2-17). The gastrin-antigastrin with 95% 02/5% CO2 and the cannister was then sealed. complex was then precipitated by the addition of goat anti- The Torbal cannister containing the organ culture system bodytorabbitIgG.Aftertheadditionofthe secondantibody, was maintained at 37°C. Antral explants were cultured for samples were incubated for 24h at 40C. The supemates intervals ranging from 30 min to 24h. The four explants were removed after centrifugation at 1,000g for 55 min at from a single experiment were harvested and washed three 4°C and the precipitates were solubilized by the use of a times in ice-cold Hanks' solution, blotted dry, and rapidly toulene-based tissue solubilizer (NCS, Amersham/Searle frozen on dry ice. Harvested explants were stored at -20°C Corp., Arlington Heights, Ill.). The solubilized immunopre- until processed. Culture medium from each experimentwas cipitates were then added to 10 ml of liquid scintillation stored in a similar manner. Unless specifically noted, four fluid (toluene 100 ml; PPO, 600 mg, POPOP, 7.5 mg) and to eight explants from a single experiment were processed countedin aliquidscintillation counter. The specific activity at each incubation interval under the media conditions de- of [3H]gastrin was calculated by dividing the radioactivity tailedbelow. of[3H]gastrin by gastrin concentration and was expressed as The basal culture medium contained 80% Trowell-T8, femtomoles of [3H]tryptophan incorporated per picomole of 10% NCTC-135, and 10% dialyzed fetal calf serum (all gastrin. Gastrin specific activity was compared to identically purchased from GrandIsland Biological Co.). To each milli- prepared duplicate controls incubated with normal rabbit liter of medium 100U of penicillin and 100 ,ug strepto- serum in place of rabbit antiserum to gastrin. When the mycin were added. Culture medium was prepared under an double-antibodyprocedurewasperformedoncolumnelution ultraviolet hood. To assess gastrin synthesis by rat antral fractions otherthanthosecontainingimmunoreactive gastrin, 52 R. F. Harty,J. C. van der Vijver, andJ. E. McGuigan there was no difference in the gastrin antibody precipitated conditionswithmediacontaining[3H]tryptophan.Changesin radioactivity compared with radioactivity in control precipi- antral explant gastrin and protein specific activity with tates.
