Stimulation of Gastrin Secretion and Synthesis
KEYWORDS: gastrin, antral, tryptophan, explants, synthesis, protein, culture, tissue, media, incorporation, control, secretion, dbcamp, experiments, containing


Vijver, andJ. E. McGuigan there was no difference in the gastrin antibody precipitated conditionswithmediacontaining[3H]tryptophan.Changesin radioactivity compared with radioactivity in control precipi- antral explant gastrin and protein specific activity with tates. time were assessed using control media and media con- Antral tissue protein specific activity was assessed by taining cycloheximide (Calbiochem, San Diego, Calif.). To measuring the incorporation of [3H]tryptophan into tissue assess the effect of the dibutyryl derivative ofcyclic 3',5'- protein of culture antral explants obtained after extraction AMP on gastrin secretion and synthesis, paired experiments of gastrin. Residual tissue sediments were homogenized were performed under control media conditions and with with a Teflon homogenizer in 1 ml ofchilled 0.01 M potas- media containing dibutyryl cyclic AMP (DBCAMP, Sigma sium phosphate buffer, pH 7.4. After the addition ofequal Chemical Co., St. Louis, Mo.). Additional control experi- volumes of20%trichloroacetic acid(TCA),thehomogenized ments were performed with 1 and 10 mM butyric acid sediments were kept at 4°C for 24h and then centrifuged (SigmaChemical Co.). at 1,000g for 30 min at 4°C. The pellets were washed Histology. Representative antral explants were taken at once with 10%o TCA and twice with chloroform-methanol the specified incubation intervals from experiments per- (1:1 by volume) and then taken to dryness. The resultant formed under the above culture conditions and were ex- protein-containing material was dissolved in 2 ml of 1 N aminedby lightmicroscopy. Specimens were placedin 10% NaOH. Aliquots of this solution were taken for protein neutral buffered formalin, dehydrated in increasing con- measurement by the Lowry method (16) and for the deter- centrations ofethyl alcohol, and then embedded in paraffin. mination ofprotein-specific activity by counting in a liquid Properlyorientedspecimentswerethensectionedandstained scintillation spectrometer. The method for determining in- with hematoxylin and eosin and examined microscopically. corporation of [3H]tryptophan into antral tissue protein Statistical analysis. Values are represented as the mean represents a modification of the technique described by ± SEM. Data were analyzed by the linear regression of Kagnoff et al. (17). The specific activity of antral tissue grouped data with analysis of variance (ANOVA). Linear protein was expressed as femtomoles of [3HItryptophan regressionlineswereobtainedusingleastsquaresanalysisof permicrograms ofprotein. group data. ANOVA was used to detect differences from Gastrin secreted into the culture medium with time was linearity, significance of regression and differences be- measured by radioimmunoassay while the specific activity tween lines. Statistical significance was assigned ifP <0.05. of gastrin in antral explants was assessed simultaneously by the above described methods.
