Stimulation of Gastrin Secretion and Synthesis
KEYWORDS: gastrin, antral, tryptophan, explants, synthesis, protein, culture, tissue, media, incorporation, control, secretion, dbcamp, experiments, containing


differences be- measured by radioimmunoassay while the specific activity tween lines. Statistical significance was assigned ifP <0.05. of gastrin in antral explants was assessed simultaneously by the above described methods. Gastrin concentrations in tissue culture media are expressed as nanograms ofgastrin RESULTS permilligrams ofexplant tissue protein. Experimental design. The direct and simultaneous Elution characteristics of gastrin and 3H-radio- demonstration ofgastrin synthesis andsecretion by isolated, activity in antralgastrin extracts aftergel chromatog- cultured antral mucosal explants was studied under control raphyfractionation. The distribution and concentra- T I acx E ' 40-3 C0 Q._ cE ,.- CM c -0 0 Q. I ct C U 40 60 % Elution Volume FIGURE 1 Representative elution volume characteristics of immunoreactive gastrin (A) and tritium radioactivity (0) in gastrin extracts ofcultured antral explants separated by Sephadex G-50 superfine gel filtration. Elution volume is expressed as percent between the void volume and salt peak. The hatched area represents eluted fraction pooled for immuno- purification ofgastrin. Stimulation ofGastrin Secretion and Synthesis inAntral Organ Culture 53 2000. t..1500 1 CL *x 00 0.. 100 2 0 1 4 1 0o 4 6 a 0o 12 14 Is Culture Duration (hours) FIGuRE 2 Incorporation of [3HItryptophan into tissue protein in cultured antral mucosal explants. The bars represent mean values for 4-12 experiments; the vertical lines indicate ±1 SEM. The solidline in this and subsequent figures representa linearregression line. tion ofimmunoreactive gastrin and 3H-radioactivity in Incorporation of [3H]tryptophan into antral tissue antralexplants culturedwithmediacontainingtritium- protein. The specific activity of tissue protein in labeled tryptophan were assessed by Sephadex G-50 antral explants, culturedundercontrol conditions with superfine column chromatography. The major com- media containing tritium-labeled tryptophan, in- ponent of immunoreactive gastrin eluted in a single creased progressively with time (Fig. 2). Protein peak with an elution volume of approximately 55%, specificactivityincreasedfrom33.6+8.4fmolat30min with a small leading shoulder (Fig. 1). The majority to 1,660±236 fmol [3H]tryptophan/,g protein at 16h. of tritium radioactivity eluted with the void volume, During the 16-h incubation period the mean rate of with a lesser peak preceding the elution volume for incorporation of[3H]tryptophan into antral tissue pro- gastrin and a small peak in the region of the salt tein was 102.6 fmol [3H]tryptophan/Ig per h. The ef- peak (Fig. 1). fects ofvarious concentrations ofcycloheximide (from 100 to 1,000 ,ug/ml) on [3H]tryptophan incorporation TABLE I intoexplantprotein wereexamined.The incorporation Effects ofCycloheximide on [3H]Tryptophan incorporation of tritium radioactivity into protein was inhibited intoAntral TissueProtein andGastrin
