Stimulation of Gastrin Secretion and Synthesis
KEYWORDS: gastrin, antral, tryptophan, explants, synthesis, protein, culture, tissue, media, incorporation, control, secretion, dbcamp, experiments, containing


Release and [3H]Tryptophan Incorporation into Gastrin andProtein SpecificActivity [3H]Tryptophanincorporation Mediagastrin intogastrin intoantraltissueprotein ng/mgprotein fmol/pmolgastrin %inhibition fmol/lpgprotein %inhibition Control 61.1±25.1 55.2±0.2 1,736±21.4 Butyric acid 1 mM 46.9±7.8 17.5±1.4 68.5 1,367±16.9 21.3 10mM 39.6±2.9 18.7±0.9 66.1 706±47.4 59.3 Results aregivenasmean±SEM. Ineachexperimentthreeantralexplantswereculturedindividuallyfor18hinthepresence ofcontrol mediaorwith mediacontainingeither 1 or 10 mM butyric acid. tion of explants did show scattered areas of focal gastrin synthesis and secretion were stimulated by degeneration andnecrosisat24h,whichwasrarelyob- 10 mM DBCAMP; this concentration of DBCAMP, served in explants examined at earlier time points. which was determined to be optimal underthe condi- tions ofthese experiments, wasfoundby otherinvesti- gators to be effective in the stimulation of insulin DISCUSSION synthesis (11). The application of in vitro organ and tissue culture The presentstudies demonstrated directly synthesis techniques to the study ofpeptide hormone secretion ofboth gastrin and total antral tissue protein by meas- andsynthesishas permittedinvestigation ofendocrine urements of progressive increases ofincorporation of cell function independentofin vivo variables, such as [3H]tryptophan into gastrin and antral protein with blood flow and hormone-hormone or hormone-neural time. However, the rate of [3H]tryptophan incorpora- transmitter interaction. The direct and simultaneous tion, expressed as femtomoles [3H]tryptophan per demonstrationofpeptidehormonesynthesisandsecre- micrograms peptide or protein per hour was much tion utilizing in vitro techniques has previously been greater for gastrin than for total antral tissue protein described for insulin (18), glucagon (19), and para- (1,209vs. 102.6fmol [3H]tryptophan/,ugperh).Stimula- thyroid hormone (20). Gastrin secretion, but not syn- tion of gastrin synthesis by 10 mM DBCAMP is thesis, byantral (21, 22) and gastrinomatissue (23, 24) supported further by increases in total explant tissue has been studied by utilizing perifusion and organ gastrin (gastrin contained in the culture medium and tissue culture techniques, respectively. residual gastrin in the antral mucosal explant) (Table The results of the present studies demonstrate (a) III) when compared with explants cultured in the directgastrinsynthesisandsimultaneous gastrin secre- absence ofDBCAMP. tion by isolated cultured antral mucosal explants; (b) Progressive increases in total antral tissue protein that both gastrin and protein specific activities pro- specific activity confirmed the functional viability of gressively increase with time; (c) cycloheximide al- antral mucosa maintained in organ culture under the most completely abolishes gastrin and protein syn- conditions of these experiments. Additional direct thesis; and (d) DBCAMP increases significantly both evidence that gastrin and protein are synthesized by synthesis and secretion ofantral gastrin. antral mucosainorganculturewasprovidedbystudies By examination of Sephadex G-50 elution frac- in which cycloheximide was included in the culture tions containing
