Stimulation of Gastrin Secretion and Synthesis
KEYWORDS: gastrin, antral, tryptophan, explants, synthesis, protein, culture, tissue, media, incorporation, control, secretion, dbcamp, experiments, containing


gastrin and protein are synthesized by synthesis and secretion ofantral gastrin. antral mucosainorganculturewasprovidedbystudies By examination of Sephadex G-50 elution frac- in which cycloheximide was included in the culture tions containing the immunoreactive gastrin, it was media. Cycloheximide is an antibiotic which inhibits possible to assess gastrin specific activity ([3H]trypto- peptide andprotein synthesis atthe translational level phan, femtomoles per picomoles of gastrin) in cul- of biosynthesis by interfering with the transfer of tured explants by use of a double-antibody method amino acids from messenger RNA to ribosomes, thus for immunochemical purification of gastrin. Under blocking the directed polymerization of amino acids control culture conditions with media containing into nascent peptides and proteins (25). Gastrin and [3H]tryptophan, the specific activity of antral explant protein synthesis were almost completely abolished gastrin progressively increased overthe 24-hperiodof when explants were cultured in the presence ofcyclo- observation. The temporally related incorporation heximide in concentration ranges from 100 to 1,000 of [3H]tryptophan into gastrin establishes directly ,ug/ml. It is concluded that cycloheximide-related the synthesis of gastrin by cultured antral mucosa. inhibition of protein synthesis accounted for the ob- The present studies demonstrated that both antral serveddecreasesingastrinandproteinspecificactivity. 58 R. F. Harty,J. C. van der Vijver, andJ. E. McGuigan (The less likely possibility that cycloheximide may ACKNOWLEDGMENTS exert effects on membrane transport which are inde- This work was supported in part by Research grants AM pendent of its action as an inhibitor of protein syn- 13711andCA15332;ResearchTraininggrantAM05664from thesis cannot be excluded by these experiments the National Institutes ofHealth; and Research grant DT-17 ). Histological examination of antrol explants fromthe American Cancer Society. culturedundercontrolconditionsrevealedthatthesur-
