Restenosis
KEYWORDS: stent, des, vessel, restenosis, coronary, drug, isr, factors, wall, bms, vessel wall, clinical, lesions, response, balloon


muscle cells, have appeared to be quite effective in preventing restenosis in clinical trials. Antisense knockdown of c-myc, a protein critical for progression of cell replication, is another approach to inhibit cell proliferation in the artery wall and has been through preliminary clinical trials using Morpholino oligos. Histopathology and Molecular Mechanisms Restenosis can considered a local vascular manifestation of the general biological response to arterial wall injury. Following vessel wall injury with endothelium damage, the exposure of tunica media to the flowing blood results in platelet adhesion to the media's collagen via the Von Williebrand factor. This results in platelet activation, which is followed by aggregation and soon evolving into a vicious cycle, which feeds and nurtures itself till a clot is formed from the coagulation cascade (which is activated from the tissue thromboplastin released from the media following vessel wall injury) and fibrin. Basically, this phenomenon can be considered synonymous to hemostasis. Activated platelets express adhesion molecules, to which circulating leukocytes attach and begin the process of leukocyte migration. Also during this process, several chemotactic factors are released and multiple adhesion molecules are expressed by various activated inflammatory cells in the vicinity of the inflammation, which cause chemotaxis of leukocytes to the core of the inflammation. Growth factors, cytokines and adhesion molecules released and expressed by platelets, leukocytes and other inflammatory cells, result in the migration of vascular smooth muscle cells from the media and proliferation with resultant neo-intima formation [3] [4] [5]. Hence, neo-intima consists of vascular smooth muscle cells, macrophages and extracellular matrix, which has formed over several weeks. When reading through the above process, we realize that plaque rupture and stent thrombosis uses the same tools of inflammation mentioned above. The phenomenon of stent thrombosis and acute coronary syndrome can be thought of as an acute phenomenon, evolving in minutes to a couple of hours. Thus, depending on several factors (which favor acute thrombosis) the above mentioned process can evolve very quickly resulting in thrombosis of the coronary vessel. This process can then follow any of the pathways: • the patient seeks immediate help and the percutaneous coronary intervention can open up the vessel and prevent progression of the acute coronary syndrome • the patient fails to seek help and can die from a massive myocardial infarction • sometimes, without seeking help, the patient lives through this coronary thrombosis and the clot becomes organised and recanalised.
