Restenosis
KEYWORDS: stent, des, vessel, restenosis, coronary, drug, isr, factors, wall, bms, vessel wall, clinical, lesions, response, balloon


to seek help and can die from a massive myocardial infarction • sometimes, without seeking help, the patient lives through this coronary thrombosis and the clot becomes organised and recanalised. In more simple words, coronary restenosis can be thought of as a sub-acute to chronic vascular inflammatory response to iatrogenic controlled injury; while stent thrombosis is an acute vascular response resulting in acute thrombosis and a high propensity to cause sudden death or significant morbidity. In balloon angioplasty, the lumen size is increased from its baseline diseased state through the dilatation of the balloon at the site of the diseased region. However, the elastic recoil (of the artery), negative remodeling, contraction and finally neo-intima formation, results in restenosis. Also, to be noted is the fact that there is a 30% risk of abrupt closure of the vessel from acute thrombosis from plain balloon angioplasty as it is a form of vascular injury too (iatrogenic controlled injury). Based on individual clinical and angiographic characteristics, some patients develop this fatal complication, while others do not. In stent implantation, the lumen size is increased from its baseline diseased state and has a better patency than plain balloon angioplasty, as the stent scaffold holds the vessel open; therefore the component of elastic recoil and negative remodeling is reduced significantly. Thus the restenosis rates are lower in BMS when compared to plain balloon angioplasty, as the elastic recoil and negative remodeling is virtually eliminated. Hence, the final lumen size is greater and neo-intima formation does not materialize into clinical restenosis as seen to occur more commonly with balloon angioplasty. Similarly, it is well known that DES has a lower re-stenosis rate than BMS as the DES have the added advantage of releasing anti-stenotic drug which can retard the neo-intima 2/10 formation. Rapamycin, an immunosuppresant agent approved by the FDA, inhibits both rat and human vascular smooth muscle proliferation and migration in vitro. A study investigated (1) whether rapamycin administration could reduce neointimal thickening in a porcine model of restenosis post-PTCA and (2) the mechanism by which rapamycin inhibits VSMCs in vivo. It was found that rapamycin administration significantly reduced the arterial proliferative response after PTCA in the pig by increasing the level of the CDKI p27(kip1) and inhibition of the pRb phosphorylation within the vessel wall. Therefore, pharmacological interventions that elevate CDKI in the vessel wall and target cyclin-dependent kinase activity may have a therapeutic
