Restenosis
KEYWORDS: stent, des, vessel, restenosis, coronary, drug, isr, factors, wall, bms, vessel wall, clinical, lesions, response, balloon


p27(kip1) and inhibition of the pRb phosphorylation within the vessel wall. Therefore, pharmacological interventions that elevate CDKI in the vessel wall and target cyclin-dependent kinase activity may have a therapeutic role in the treatment of restenosis after angioplasty in humans[6]. These common pathways finally act on the cell cycle and result in vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation. Given that the anti-stenotic drug of DES act at the level of the cell cycle, they are thus the most effective strategy available to prevent coronary restenosis after a percutaneous coronary intervention. Once again, there are several other factors involved in re-stenosis of BMS and DES (as discussed below). Coronary re-stenosis can be considered in two different settings of a percutaneous coronary intervention: • In pure balloon angioplasty (in the absence of stenting)- Following balloon angioplasty, there is injury to the vessel wall, which triggers the expected inflammatory response from the vessel wall. Hence, there is elastic recoil, negative remodelling (reduction in lumen size due to the healing process) or contraction, thrombus at the site of injury (i.e., release of prothrombotic thromboplastin like material from the vessel wall, exposure of the collagen of the media), smooth muscle proliferation and migration and excessive extracellular matrix production. • With stenting- Stenting prevents elastic recoil and negative remodelling. However, neointimal formation progresses and causes re-stenosis, which is reduced with antistenotic drugs. Restenosis in patients after stent implantation is caused predominantly by neointimal hyperplasia. However neointima formation in plain balloon angioplasty has a minor role.[7] [8] Through immunohistochemical identification, it has been shown that there is a steady accumulation of macrophages within stented segments (with clustering of macrophages around stent struts), where as there virtually no accumulation within balloon-injured segments of pure balloon angioplasty.[9] [10] The porcine model of in-stent restenosis (ISR) has demonstrated the formation of a thick neointima in 28 days-which may be the reason as to why the earlier DES released their antistenotic drug by the end of 30 days. However, it is well known that the peak period of ISR development in humans is approximately 3 to 6 months-hence the newer DES are aiming to release the drug for an extended period. Interestingly, in these porcine models they found a positive correlation between the inflammatory infiltrate, degree of arterial injury and extent of stent strut penetration into the vessel wall with the neointimal thickness. Interestingly, in a rat model of carotid artery dilatation
