Restenosis
KEYWORDS: stent, des, vessel, restenosis, coronary, drug, isr, factors, wall, bms, vessel wall, clinical, lesions, response, balloon


the inflammatory infiltrate, degree of arterial injury and extent of stent strut penetration into the vessel wall with the neointimal thickness. Interestingly, in a rat model of carotid artery dilatation the gate-keeper step in initiating vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation from tunica media to intima is the rupture of internal elastic lamina.[11] [8] The above mentioned responses and time periods were in porcine models with near normal coronaries and this may not be the case in humans who have had balloon angioplasty, BMS and DES for atherosclerotic lesions. The inflammatory response in DES is very different in terms of cell composition and timing, when compared to balloon angioplasty and BMS and also among the different DES. These differences could be explained by the presence of various forms of polymer among DES. For example, the inflammatory response (predominantly giant cell infiltrates) to Sirolimus DES has been shown to persist beyond 180 days and up to 2 years. In contrast, the inflammatory response to BMS and the second generation Everolimus DES (which has a more 3/10 biocompatible polymer) has been limited to 90 days and 12 months, respectively. Evidence of such persistence of inflammatory response has been found in autopsy cases and from thrombus aspirates taken from patients during percutaneous coronary intervention for late stent thrombosis. As mentioned earlier, the neointima consists of the hyperplastic vascular smooth muscle cells and the extracellular protein rich matrix. The current evidence points to the fact that these smooth muscle cells are of luminal origin, however, there is data that indicates that they can be of adventitial origin too.[12] [13] The later stages of restenosis is contributed predominantly by the deposition of extracellular matrix.[14] [15] After reviewing the existing evidence, it seems that migration and proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells form the major final common pathway for restenosis. In the presence of growth factors and cytokines, these vascular smooth cells undergo a phenotypic modulation from a contractile state to a synthetic phenotype. Hence, most of the molecular research in the past few years has been focused on understanding the common pathways that multiple receptors employ to transmit mitogenic signals from the cell membrane to the nucleus of the vascular smooth cells after arterial injury.[16] [17] The three common pathways which result in pathological mitosis of the vascular smooth cells are: • Ras-raf mitogen activated protein kinase • Cyclic adenosine monophosphate-protein kinase dependent signalling • Cyclin
