Restenosis
KEYWORDS: stent, des, vessel, restenosis, coronary, drug, isr, factors, wall, bms, vessel wall, clinical, lesions, response, balloon


The three common pathways which result in pathological mitosis of the vascular smooth cells are: • Ras-raf mitogen activated protein kinase • Cyclic adenosine monophosphate-protein kinase dependent signalling • Cyclin dependent kinase complexes Several rat models have shown that alteration of these pathways can worsen or prevent neo initmal formation.[18] Pathophysiology In this section we will discuss the etiological and various pathophysiological factors, which lead to restenosis. DES predominantly consist of 3 elements: • Scaffold or the stent platform, which forms the skeleton of the stent (this made of stainless steel or cobalt chromium). • The antistenotic drug (such as paclitaxel, everolimus, etc). • The polymer or the carrier on which the drug is mounted. Unlike, the DES the BMS consist only the scaffold or the platform. The pathophysiology seems to be the interplay of clinical characteristics, biological factors, mechanical factors, technical factors and finally de-novo lesions which arise within the stent itself. The various pathophysiological factors are discussed as follows: • Biological and Genetic Factors: • Drug Resistance: Recent studies have revealed a genetic basis for drug resistance.[19] Depending on the penetrance and expressivity of these mutations, the sensitivity to these drugs vary. This resistance can be the result of inherited genetic mutations or acquired following the exposure of a cytotoxic drug.[20] [21] • Genetic Factors Affecting the Inflammatory Response: Polymorphism of glycoprotein IIIa and a mutant form of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase appear to increase the risk of ISR.[22] Interestingly, allele 2 of interleukin IL-1ra gene appears to be protective. However, 4/10 these are just some of the genetic factors which have been identified in the causation of ISR. Hence, there remains the possibility of complex multigenic abnormalities (interplay of multiple variant forms of genes and environmental factors), which can play a significant role in ISR. These identified and yet to be identified genetic factors may explain as to why some patients develop ISR and some don’t despite identical clinical factors and stent characteristics. • Hypersensitivity: The implantation of these stents is recognized as foreign antigens and hence a hypersensitivity reaction [23] can be triggered, which can lead to ISR. As mentioned earlier, the DES has 3 components and the BMS has only the scaffold, which can all contribute towards this hypersensitivity reaction. • • • Stent Platform: The stent platforms of the BMS and first generation DES (paclitaxel and sirolimus) is made up of 316L stainless steel, which contains
