Restenosis
KEYWORDS: stent, des, vessel, restenosis, coronary, drug, isr, factors, wall, bms, vessel wall, clinical, lesions, response, balloon


this hypersensitivity reaction. • • • Stent Platform: The stent platforms of the BMS and first generation DES (paclitaxel and sirolimus) is made up of 316L stainless steel, which contains more nickel and molybdenum than the second generation DES, where the scaffold is made up of cobalt chromium. This nickel and molybdenum are known to trigger these hypersensitivity reactions.[24] Interestingly, to date, no prospective studies have confirmed this association. • • • Polymer: The durable polymer which remains covering the stent after releasing the anti- stenotic drug has known to cause hypersensitivity and is suspected as the culprit for stent thrombosis and progressive or late re-stenosis. • • • Matrix Metalloproteinases: Circulating matrix metalloproteinase(MMP) have been associated with ISR as they play significant roles in migration of vascular smooth cells and matrix remodelling during healing post-stenting. Elevated levels of MMP-9 at baseline and MMP-2 and MMP-9 levels 24 hours post-percutaneous coronary intervention have proven to be strongly associated with the development of ISR following DES implantation. On the contrary, low and near normal levels of MMP-2 and MMP-9 were associated with a lack of a significant re-stenotic response. • • • Genetic factors: As mentioned above can play a significant role in the inflammatory response, which can result in ISR. • B) Arterial Factors: • Wall Shear Stress: The laminar flow of blood is a well known phenomenon, where the blood flows the fastest at the vessel center (or at the carina of a bifurcation) and slowest when it flows closest to the vessel wall (or at the ostium of a bifurcation). Hence, regions of low shear stress lead to accumulation of biological mediators, which promote atherosclerosis or neointimal formation. Adapting this principle would mean that a divider or the formation of a new carina should reduce the incidence of ISR. Kim at al demonstrated reduced occurrence of ISR by 'shotgun stenting' (i.e., simultaneous V-stenting with the formation of a new carina in the left main stem or other suitably sized vessels) but conversely, Stinus et al demonstrated increased target lesion revascularization rate with V-stenting when compared 5/10 with the 'Crush' technique. This disparity can have a couple of explanations: 1) lesion location 2) post stent lumen size 3) reference lumen size 4) exposure of the new carina (formed by stent struts) for thrombus formation. The presence of patchy areas of low shear stress within stented segments, secondary to local
