Restenosis
KEYWORDS: stent, des, vessel, restenosis, coronary, drug, isr, factors, wall, bms, vessel wall, clinical, lesions, response, balloon


lumen size 4) exposure of the new carina (formed by stent struts) for thrombus formation. The presence of patchy areas of low shear stress within stented segments, secondary to local geometric factors (such as angulation or curvature) can predispose towards increased neointimal formation and hence ISR. This was demonstrated by Papafaklis et al on 6 month follow-up with BMS and Paclitaxel DES. However, this was not seen with Sirolimus DES. This difference can be explained by the differing pharmacological mode of action and shorter drug-release kinetics. • • Progression of Atherosclerosis within a Stented Segment: If the necrotic plaque within the stent progresses or if a lipid core plaque at the stent edge is not covered completely, then these lesions can progress to cause ISR or even thrombus formation. • • "Thrombostenosis" Phenomenon: Oikawa et al was the first to describe the intriguing theory in which chronic thrombus formation may play an integral role in the development of ISR. • • Vessel Remodelling: The implantation of DES in vessels that have already undergone positive remodelling secondary to large plaque burden ("Glagov" phenomenon) have an increased risk for ISR. • Stent Factors: • Polymer Release Characteristics: In one the earlier trials involving Paclitaxel, they found that the duration of the drug release had a far greater impact on the inhibition of neointimal proliferation than the actual drug dose delivered. Several molecular biological studies have indicated that the genetic mechanisms responsible for the inflammatory proliferative response remain potentially active for a period of 21 days after vessel wall injury. These polymer release kinetics could explain some of the disparities in the ISR among different DES. It seems clear that when the antistenotic drug is delivered at a set threshold dose for a sustained prolonged period of time may be required to control the inflammatory proliferative response and hence reduce the occurrence of ISR. • • Non-uniform Drug Distribution: • Ideally, the anti-stenotic drug should be delivered in a homogeneous fashion to the vessel wall (i.e., transmural and circumferential). However, due to local blood flow alterations (secondary to atherosclerotic plaque and calcified lesions), non-compliant vessels (i.e., calcified, tortuous), strut overlap, stent design, stent gap, vessel curvature, bifurcation lesions, ostial lesions, stent fracture and polymer damage can result in focal areas of the vessel receiving sub-optimal anti-stenotic drug. • • • Stent delivery in calcified lesions can result in stripping of the polymer base.
