Restenosis
KEYWORDS: stent, des, vessel, restenosis, coronary, drug, isr, factors, wall, bms, vessel wall, clinical, lesions, response, balloon


polymer damage can result in focal areas of the vessel receiving sub-optimal anti-stenotic drug. • • • Stent delivery in calcified lesions can result in stripping of the polymer base. • • 6/10 • Finally, individual variations in metal to artery ratio and variability in drug elution can all contribute to stent re-stenosis. • • Strut Thickness: Thicker stent struts have been associated with increased risk of ISR with BMS and smaller vessels. This could be explained by the fact that the thinner stent strut would have a lesser dose of foreign body exposure to the vessel wall, hence reducing the intensity of the inflammatory proliferative response. • • On- and Off-Label Use: The STENT group is the largest, multicenter, prospective registry involving >15,000 patients, evaluating the late outcomes associated with DES implantation in the United States showed an almost 2 fold increase in target vessel revascularization (TVR) at 9 months for off-label use (ostial, left main stem, chronic total occlusions, saphenous venous graft, small or large vessels, multivessel, ST-elevation myocardial infarction, ISR lesions) when compared to on-label use (short de novo lesions measuring >2.5mm and <3.5mm for Sirolimus DES or <3.75mm for Paclitaxel DES). Also, when looking at the SYNTAX study, there were higher TVR rates in patients with highly complex 3-vessel or left main disease who underwent DES (which was an off-label use of DES). When analyzing the list of off-label uses, it seems that these patients have complex coronary lesions (with a higher SYNTAX score), more sicker and have more comorbidities which could easily influence TVR. • • Polymer Disruption, Peeling and Crackling: This can result in exposure of bare-metal areas, which has been demonstrated in bench studies involving both first and second generation DES using light or scanning electron microscopy. It is plausible that this bare metal exposure and stent regions in the absence of anti-stenotic drug can form a nidus for inflammatory and proliferative response. Seen more so in stent implantation in tortuous calcified lesions. • Mechanical Factors: • Stent Underexpansion: When the stent is deployed and it is not well expanded, it results in a vessel lumen size whose stent cross-sectional area is significantly smaller that of the reference lumen size or other cross-sectional areas within the stent, despite good apposition of the stent struts against the vessel wall. If the minimum stent area is smaller than the reference lumen size to begin with,
