Restenosis
KEYWORDS: stent, des, vessel, restenosis, coronary, drug, isr, factors, wall, bms, vessel wall, clinical, lesions, response, balloon


areas within the stent, despite good apposition of the stent struts against the vessel wall. If the minimum stent area is smaller than the reference lumen size to begin with, then the same amount of neointimal formation would be of greater significance than in a scenario where the minimum stent area was larger. An excellent expansion is considered if the minimal cross-sectional area in the stent is >90% of the average reference cross-sectional area. • • Stent Malapposition: In malapposition, the stent struts are not apposed to the vessel wall (blood occupies the space between the stent struts and vessel wall). It is commonly seen with undersized stents, tortuous arteries and non-homogeneity in the reference arterial lumen diameter within the treated segment. • • Stent Fracture: It is defined as complete or partial separation of a stent, which was contiguous on initial implantation. This commonly happens with non-uniform stent expansion in region with both very compliant and resilient vessel walls. IVUS is an accurate imaging modality to recognize this abnormality. Partial stent fracture is defined as the absence of atleast one third or 120 degrees of stent struts for at least 1 frame. Complete stent fracture is defined Caosok tiehse h eclpo ums dpelleivteer oaubr sseervniccees. Boyf usstinegn otu sr tsreurvtisce ws, yitohui ang rtehee to s otuer nustee odf csoeokgimes.ent for at least 1 7/10 frame. There have been various classification systems to represent the severity of stent fracture. The incidence of DES fracture has been reported from 1% to 8%. In fact, in the only randomized controlled trial reporting the incidence and outcomes of stent fracture in DES (LONG-DES II study), where they had a follow-up angiography, a 14% incidence of restenosis was observed. There are 2 important mechanisms for stent fracture. Firstly, with excessive movements during myocardial contraction, significant tension is exerted at hinge points where the myocardial contractility forces act in opposing direction and result in fracture. Secondly, when a stent has a closed cell design (as seen with Sirolimus DES), the stent cannot dissipate the myocardial contractility pressures and hence the stent itself succumbs to this force and results in a fracture. Hence, with these principle mechanisms in mind; long stents, right coronary artery lesions, excessive tortuosity, angulation and torsion of the vessel, overlapping stents, saphenous vein graft lesions, tight calcified lesions that have been vigorously post dilated and expanded, myocardial bridges' sites and closed
