Restenosis
KEYWORDS: stent, des, vessel, restenosis, coronary, drug, isr, factors, wall, bms, vessel wall, clinical, lesions, response, balloon


excessive tortuosity, angulation and torsion of the vessel, overlapping stents, saphenous vein graft lesions, tight calcified lesions that have been vigorously post dilated and expanded, myocardial bridges' sites and closed cell design stents (such as Sirolimus DES) predispose towards stent fracture. • • Technical Factors: • Barotrauma/Geographical Miss (GM): When a stent is deployed and if its fails to cover the sites of balloon injury or the atherosclerotic in its entirety, then these missed sites can become a nidus for re-stenosis. GM can be classified as longitudinal or axial. Longitudinal GM was defined as injured or diseased stenotic segment, which was not fully covered by the DES. Whereas, axial GM was defined as inadequate or overzealous sizing of the balloon, which results in effects similar to stent underexpansion/malapposition and uncontrolled vessel wall injury (increasing the stimulus for inflammation and proliferative response, respectively. Hence, the presence of injured or diseased segment not covered by the stent or balloon-artery ratio <0.9 or >1.3 was noted to have an increased association with target vessel revascularization and myocardial infarction at 1 year. • • • Stent Gap: It is simply defined as a discontinuous coverage between 2 stents. A gap between 2 stents exposes the site of balloon injury as well the lack of anti-stenotic drug distribution (if it is in between 2 DES) will clearly increase the risk for re-stenosis • • • DES Deployment in a Clot-Laden Segment: Logically, it seems that there is significant reduction in penetrance of anti-stenotic drug in regions, where the DES is deployed in clot-laden arterial segment. However, with the widespread use of glycoprotein-IIb/IIIa inhibitors, potent P2Y12 receptor antagonists and aspiration thrombectomy, these concerns do not translate into clinical events. This is demonstrated in a recent meta- analysis of 13 trials (n=7244) has shown significant benefits of DES over BMS in reducing TVR and recurrent MI (at the end of one year) in STEMI patients. Clinical Presentation In-stent restenosis (ISR) can be clinically silent, but majority of them present with recurrent symptoms of angina. The incidence of recurrent angina pectoris after a percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) was reported in the past to be around 50% with a wide range. This number may 8/10 have reduced as most the PCIs end up in a DES as opposed to a BMS. The positive predictive value of symptoms indicating a significant stenosis is as low as 60%. ISR is often
