Restenosis
KEYWORDS: stent, des, vessel, restenosis, coronary, drug, isr, factors, wall, bms, vessel wall, clinical, lesions, response, balloon


the PCIs end up in a DES as opposed to a BMS. The positive predictive value of symptoms indicating a significant stenosis is as low as 60%. ISR is often thought to be a benign phenomenon since the process of neointimal formation and proliferation is of gradual onset and progressive in nature. Given the pathophysiology of coronary re-stenosis, it is thought that re- stenosis is a rare cause of acute myocardial infarction or death. However, there are several reports which have shown that ISR can present as an acute coronary syndrome. 26% to 53% and 3.5% to 20% of BMS ISR can present as unstable angina and myocardial infarction, respectively. Similarly, 16% to 66% and 1% to 20% of DES ISR can present as unstable angina and myocardial infarction, respectively. A highly stenotic ISR lesion can lead to an non-occlusive thrombus, which can result in an acute coronary syndrome. Also, patients with clinically silent re-stenosis can be identified on coronary cineangiograms when neighbouring plaques undergo rupture or intimal tear and present as an acute coronary syndrome. Sometimes, local plaque rupture or intimal tear can initiate an inflammatory process which can promote thrombosis of neighbouring stenotic lesions. Thus, it is important to thoroughly evaluate the patient as coronary re-stenosis can present as an acute coronary syndrome. BMS ISR has been reported to occur usually after five and half months after stent implantation. The time frame for DES ISR presentation is not well-known with one study reporting a mean time duration of 12 months. Delayed restenosis is known to occur especially with DES. There have been reports, using intravascular ultrasound that have shown neointimal proliferation to occur even at 4 years after stent implantation. The exact reasons as to why this delayed neointimal proliferation occurs is not well known. Some of the suspected pathophysiological mechanisms are delayed healing response, persistent biological reaction caused by the drug present in the polymer, or a hypersensitivity reaction to the polymer and a possible a genetic predisposition. This eludes to the fact that the clinician should entertain the possibility of coronary re-stenosis in patients who present with recurrent angina about 2 years after the stent implantation. Among the clinical predictors of coronary re-stenosis, diabetes mellitus continues to be a strong clinical predictor. In a study conducted by Singh et al., they found that patients with treated diabetes mellitus had a 45% higher risk of restenosis compared
