Corticotropin Releasing Hormone And The Immune/Inflammatory Response
KEYWORDS: crh, hormone, human, crh-, cells, expression, corticotropin-releasing, corticotropin-releasing hormone, endocrinology, inflammatory, journal, releasing, stress, receptor, response


ABSTRACT The immune/inflammatory (I/I) response is a reaction of the vascularized connective tissue, characterized by the accumulation of fluid and leukocytes in extravascular tissues. In this process cellular (leukocytes and lymphocytes T, B, NK) and extra-cellular elements participate in a complex co-operative network. The balance between Th1 and Th2 is important for the immune system homeostasis. Glucocorticoids and catecholamines have a significant effect on this balance. The (I/I) response is influenced by the brain via regulation of peripheral nervous system functions and endocrine responses. The hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is particularly involved in this regulation. Hypothalamic corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) is pivotal in the HPA axis response to stress while it acts indirectly in an anti-inflammatory fashion because it leads to cortisol production, an anti-inflammatory hormone. CRH in plasma is bound to a high-affinity binding protein (CRH-BP) which limits its distribution and activity. The biological effects of CRH are mediated by CRH-Receptor (R)1 and CRH-R2. Receptors for a number of hormones, neurotransmitters and neuropeptides are carried by cells of the immune system. In their turn, immune cells produce CRH and corticotropin (ACTH) which act locally as autacoids during both the early and late stages of the I/I process. This locally produced CRH, so-called ‘peripheral CRH’, is found in the adrenal medulla, the testes, the ovaries, the cardiovascular system, the gastrointestinal tract, the pancreas, the lung, the spinal cord, the endometrium and the placenta, as well as in diverse inflammatory sites. In the latter it acts in a pro-inflammatory fashion while most of the CRH effects in the female reproductive tract seem to be pro-inflammatory as well. This is the case in ovulation, luteolysis and blastocyst implantation. Ovarian CRH is found in the theca and stroma and in the cytoplasm of the oocyte. CRH suppresses ovarian steroidogenesis in vitro. Endometrial CRH participates in the early maternal tolerance of the semiallograft embryo. Placental CRH is synthesized in syncytiotrophoblast cells, in placental decidua and fetal membranes and is secreted into the maternal circulation during gestation. Its concentrations increase as pregnancy progresses and it participates in the physiology of pregnancy and the onset of parturition. The placental CRH/CRH-R system has been associated with the pathological mechanisms leading to preeclampsia. The expression of CRH and CRH-Rs in several components of the immune system and their participation in the regulation of inflammatory phenomena led researchers to suggest CRH antagonists/inhibitors as potential therapeutic agents of such conditions. Αntalarmin, has
