Corticotropin Releasing Hormone And The Immune/Inflammatory Response
KEYWORDS: crh, hormone, human, crh-, cells, expression, corticotropin-releasing, corticotropin-releasing hormone, endocrinology, inflammatory, journal, releasing, stress, receptor, response


several components of the immune system and their participation in the regulation of inflammatory phenomena led researchers to suggest CRH antagonists/inhibitors as potential therapeutic agents of such conditions. Αntalarmin, has been proposed as a therapeutic tool for both CNS and inflammatory disorders associated with central and peripheral CRH hypersecretion. Astressin B, a nonspecific CRH receptor antagonist, accelerates the return to normal cyclicity. Thus, it emerges as a potential therapeutic agent in stress-related endocrine dysfunction, including the functional hypothalamic chronic anovulation syndrome or the persistent inadequate luteal phase syndrome, and therefore in the treatment of infertility. CRH-R1 antagonists could be considered for the treatment of allergic conditions (asthma, eczema, urticaria) and in the treatment of lower gastro-intestinal inflammatory diseases associated to CRH (chronic inflammatory bowel syndromes, irritable bowel disease and ulcerative colitis). For complete coverage of this and related topics, please visit www.endotext.org. INTRODUCTION The immune/inflammatory (I/I) response is influenced by the brain in a major way. This is achieved via regulation of peripheral nervous system functions and endocrine responses (1). Among other pathways the brain regulates this response through the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, which is activated during stress (1). On the other hand, receptors for a number of hormones, neurotransmitters and neuropeptides are carried by cells of the immune system, leading to modulation of their responses by changes in neuroendocrine and/or autonomic activity (2). Products of the I/I response, such as eicosanoids and inflammatory cytokines influence brain function. Additionally, immune cells produce a number of hormones and neuropeptides, like corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and corticotropin (ACTH) which act locally as autacoids during both the early and late stages of the I/I process (3). This locally produced CRH, is subsequently called ‘peripheral CRH’. CENTRAL CRH AND THE HPA AXIS. PERIPHERAL CRH CRH is a 41-amino-acid peptide that plays a central role in organizing the HPA axis and the systemic response to stress (4). It shows significant interspecies homology at the amino terminal region and acts as the main physiologic ACTH stimulator (5, 6). CRH is a member of a family of peptides, such as sauvagine, urotensin Ι, and urocortin (UCN) that show similar activity (7, 8, 9). The single CRH and UCN genes are located on human chromosomes 8 and 2, respectively. At first, CRH is synthesized as a larger precursor molecule (191 amino acid in humans) from which it is cleaved at flanking basic amino acid pairs (10). CRH is synthesized
