Corticotropin Releasing Hormone And The Immune/Inflammatory Response
KEYWORDS: crh, hormone, human, crh-, cells, expression, corticotropin-releasing, corticotropin-releasing hormone, endocrinology, inflammatory, journal, releasing, stress, receptor, response


At first, CRH is synthesized as a larger precursor molecule (191 amino acid in humans) from which it is cleaved at flanking basic amino acid pairs (10). CRH is synthesized by parvocellular neurons of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and is secreted in the hypophyseal portal blood via projecting axons to the median eminence (10). These neurons also secrete other hormones that are potent stimulators of ACTH secretion, such as arginine vasopressin (AVP) which acts synergistically with CRH and is also secreted by magnocellular neuron terminals at the posterior pituitary (11). The magnocellular PVN contain CRH-synthesizing neurons that project to the posterior pituitary (12). In addition, CRH is distributed in the brain and the spinal cord. The plasma half-life of CRH in humans is four minutes (13). ACTH released by CRH leads to secretion of cortisol and other adrenal steroids such as DHEA and, transiently, aldosterone (14). Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP) increases CRH mRNA levels in the parvocellular region of the PVN of the hypothalamus, suggesting that this polypeptide is involved in the positive regulation of CRH gene expression. Interleukin (IL)-6, produced in the PVN stimulates CRH gene expression both directly and indirectly. Forskolin and PACAP stimulate IL-6 mRNA and protein levels in the hypothalamic cells while the stimulatory effects of PACAP on CRH promoter activity are inhibited by treating hypothalamic cells with anti-IL-6 monoclonal antibody. Therefore, endogenous IL-6 production would be involved in the PACAP-induced CRH gene transcription in an autocrine manner in hypothalamic cells. Hypothalamic parvocellular neurons in the PVN are known to express glucocorticoid receptors (GC). The latter regulate CRH gene transcription and expression levels directly in this nucleus (15). IL-6 is co-expressed with CRH and AVP in the supraoptic and PVN neurons (16). It plays an important role in regulating both CRH and AVP in the hypothalamus and it increases CRH gene expression and secretion in the PVN (17,18). IL-6 may be important to sustain the activity of CRH and AVP genes. Estradiol may enhance the activation of CRH gene expression in response to stress (15). There have not been noted any sex or age differences in plasma ACTH or cortisol responses to CRH (19). ACTH response to CRH is not influenced by the hour of the day. However, the corresponding cortisol response is maximized late in the afternoon due to cortisol receptor change of affinity (20). Inputs from higher centers regulate the HPA
