Corticotropin Releasing Hormone And The Immune/Inflammatory Response
KEYWORDS: crh, hormone, human, crh-, cells, expression, corticotropin-releasing, corticotropin-releasing hormone, endocrinology, inflammatory, journal, releasing, stress, receptor, response


hour of the day. However, the corresponding cortisol response is maximized late in the afternoon due to cortisol receptor change of affinity (20). Inputs from higher centers regulate the HPA axis activity. The effects of the circadian pacemaker, stress and glucocorticoid negative feedback are superimposed. This negative feedback acts at pituitary, hypothalamic and higher levels, such as the hippocampus (1). Interestingly, chronic corticosterone treatment increases the expression of CRH mRNA at the central nucleus of the amygdala in adrenally intact rats (21). CRH plays a central role in the activation hormonal and neuronal signaling cascade in vertebrates as a response to stress. Expression of brain CRH is subject to strong, brain region-specific glucocorticoid hormones-regulated and neurogenic intracellular signals. It is hypothesized that steroid receptor coactivator 1 (SRC-1), a transcriptional coregulator of the glucocorticoid receptor, is involved in the sensitivity of CRH regulation by stress related factors, as it was shown after experiments in the brains of SRC-1 knockout mice. It was also suggested that CRH gene is positively and negatively regulated by SRC-1 showing the importance of this coactivator in the adaptive capacity to stress (22). Peripheral CRH has also been found in the adrenal medulla, the testes, the ovaries, the cardiovascular system, the gastrointestinal tract, the pancreas, the lung, the spinal cord, the endometrium and the placenta (20, 23-27), as well as in diverse inflammatory sites (1, 28, 29). Peripheral sensory afferent type C fibers and postganglionic sympathetic nerves also express CRH (30) and have been suggested as an additional source of the immune CRH (1). Another peripheral organ where CRH is locally produced is the skin where CRH receptor type 1 (CRH-R1) isoforms are expressed in keratinocytes (31). Peripheral CRH has the same electrophoretic profile as hypophyseal CRH and the same expression pattern during acute inflammation, as the acute phase reactants, substance P (SP) and TNF, including their down-regulation by GCs (32). The majority of the plasma CRH is of non-hypothalamic origin. That is because hypothalamic CRH is rapidly enzymatically decomposed at the pituitary level. However, under certain circumstances, such as insulin-induced hypoglycemia and pregnancy, hypothalamic CRH release leads to increments in plasma CRH concentration. Uniquely to humans, CRH in plasma is bound to a high-affinity binding protein (37 kilodaltons) (CRH-BP) (33). This protein has been characterized and is expressed in the brain, the pituitary and the peripheral tissues (liver, kidney, spleen). It plays a major role in
