Corticotropin Releasing Hormone And The Immune/Inflammatory Response
KEYWORDS: crh, hormone, human, crh-, cells, expression, corticotropin-releasing, corticotropin-releasing hormone, endocrinology, inflammatory, journal, releasing, stress, receptor, response


(37 kilodaltons) (CRH-BP) (33). This protein has been characterized and is expressed in the brain, the pituitary and the peripheral tissues (liver, kidney, spleen). It plays a major role in limiting the distribution or activity duration of CRH (34). CRH RECEPTORS The biological effects of CRH are mediated by two different receptors, CRH-R1 and CRH-R2 that belong to the G-protein coupled receptor superfamily and typically are positively coupled to adenylate cyclase (35, 36). CRH-R1 and CRH-R2 share an approximately 70% homology of their amino acid sequence but exhibit unique pharmacologic profiles. They are differentially expressed and appear to mediate selective actions of CRH at different tissues. The affinity that CRH exhibits towards CRH-R1 is ten times higher than towards CRH-R2 (35). These two receptors are products of separate genes. CRH-R1 is encoded by human chromosome 17q21 while CRH-R2 is encoded by human chromosome 7p14 (37, 38). The CRH-R1 gene expresses nine subtypes (α, β, c, d, e, f, g, h and v_1) produced by alternative splicing of exons 3-6 and 10-13. The CRH-R2 gene expresses three known subtypes (α, β, and γ) that are produced by the use of alternate 5’ exons (39,40,41). In most mammals, the fully active CRH-R1 receptor protein arises from transcription of 13 exons present within the CRH-R1 gene sequence. However, the human type 1 CRH-R gene contains an additional exon (exon 6) that has to be spliced out in order to generate the fully active CRH-R1α. CRH-R1α contains 415 amino acids. It mediates CRH and UCN 1 actions and is widely expressed throughout the body. Transcription of all 14 exons results in a CRH-R1 variant (CRH-R1β), a 444-amino acid heptathelial protein receptor with an extended first intracellular loop that exhibits impaired agonist binding and signaling properties. CRH-R1β can be regarded as a “pro-CRH-R1” receptor isoform without knowing its biological actions (42). CRH-R1β is expressed in a tissue specific manner and is present at the anterior pituitary (43), at reproductive tissues such as myometrium, endometrium and chorion trophoblast cells and mast cells but not in the placenta, adrenal and synovium (21). No tissue has been found to express CRH-R1β alone, until now, suggesting that the splicing mechanism is closely related to the mechanism regulating CRH-R1 gene expression in native tissues. Another CRH-R1 variant is CRH-R1d, containing 14 amino acids missing from the putative seventh transmembrane domain due to exon 13 deletion, a splicing event which is
