Corticotropin Releasing Hormone And The Immune/Inflammatory Response
KEYWORDS: crh, hormone, human, crh-, cells, expression, corticotropin-releasing, corticotropin-releasing hormone, endocrinology, inflammatory, journal, releasing, stress, receptor, response


expression in native tissues. Another CRH-R1 variant is CRH-R1d, containing 14 amino acids missing from the putative seventh transmembrane domain due to exon 13 deletion, a splicing event which is common in the other members of the B1 family of G protein-coupled receptors. In human embryonic kidneys the CRH R1d variant is mainly retained in the cytoplasm in contrast to CRH-R1α, although some cell membrane expression is evident, too. Membrane expressed CRH-R1d contains an extracellular C terminus. Co-expression studies between CRH-R1d and CRH-R2β showed that the CRH-R2β could partially rescue CRH-R1d membrane expression. This fact is associated with important attenuation of UCN 2-induced cAMP production and ERK1/2 and p38MAPK activation, suggesting that CRH-R1d might specifically induce heterologous impairment of CRH-R2 signaling responses. Accelerated CRH-R2β endocytosis seems to be involved in this mechanism (44). Glucocorticoid exerts its negative effect on CRH gene transcription in a glucocorticoid dependent manner, as it was demonstrated after examination of human BE(2)C neuronal cell line (45). A stomach variant has also been identified for CRH-R2 (46). CRH-R1 expression is highest in the cerebral cortex, striatum, amygdale and cerebellum. On the other hand, CRH-R2 is mostly present in subcortical structures such as the lateral septal nucleus, several nuclei of the hypothalamus and the choroid plexus (47). CRH receptors mRNA and protein are also detectable in adipose tissue. CRH-R2 expression in fat tissue is comparable with its expression in heart, where the highest expression of CRH-R2 is detected. At the periphery, CRH-R2 is widely expressed in the gastrointestinal tract, the lung, skeletal muscle, arteries and the heart muscle. Indeed, peripherally injected CRH augments gastrointestinal motility, inhibits gastric secretion, lowers blood pressure and affects heart output and decreases inflammatory reactions. In mice CRH-R2 has anti-angiogenic activity during postnatal development. Studies focus on the role of CRH system in the modulation of blood vessel formation and cardiovascular function aiming at the development of new anti-angiogenic therapies (48). CRH-R2 is also expressed in the colon of patients with ulcerative colitis. CRH-R2 down-regulation in distal/sigmoid biopsies of ulcerative colitis patients is indicative of change in CRH-R2 signaling associated with the process of inflammation (49). Increased serum CRH with decreased lesional skin CRH-R1 gene expression was observed in patients with psoriasis and atopic dermatitis, suggesting their involvement in stress-induced worsening of symptoms (50). Substance P, another factor involved in inflammatory diseases, can stimulate mast cells and increase the expression of functional CRH-R1. CRH
