Corticotropin Releasing Hormone And The Immune/Inflammatory Response
KEYWORDS: crh, hormone, human, crh-, cells, expression, corticotropin-releasing, corticotropin-releasing hormone, endocrinology, inflammatory, journal, releasing, stress, receptor, response


dermatitis, suggesting their involvement in stress-induced worsening of symptoms (50). Substance P, another factor involved in inflammatory diseases, can stimulate mast cells and increase the expression of functional CRH-R1. CRH induces NK-1 gene expression, explaining CRH-R1 and NK-1 expression in lesional skin of psoriatic patients (51). CRH-R1 is also detected in the ovarian stroma and the theca and in the cumulus oophorus of the graafian follicle (37, 52). CRH-R1α is present on both epithelial and stromal cells of the human endometrium (53). CRH-R1/CRH-R2 ratio varies according to adipose tissue type. CRH-R1 expression is higher in subcutaneous than in visceral fat in contrast to CRH-R2 expression which is the opposite. Urocortin and stresscopin, ligands of the CRH-R, are also expressed in fat tissue, having metabolic and potent anorexic effects. CRH-R1 and CRH-R2 expression is down regulated by CRH in isolated adipocytes (54). CRH down-regulates adipose 11β HSD-1 activity and the availability of cortisol for intracrine effect in mature human subcutaneous adipocytes in vitro . Additionally, it reduces lipolysis in differentiated human adipocytes (55). However, antalarmin, a CRH-R1 antagonist did not block the effect of CRH on 11β HSD-1 in fat tissue cells, suggesting a predominant action through CRH-R2 in human fat (54). Both CRH receptors are probably involved in some coordinate ways to express the totality of the physiological responses to stress including behavioral responses (34). Acute stress induces bladder vascular permeability and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) release that is dependent on CRH-R2, as it was shown by experiments in mice (56). These findings suggest that CRH and VEGF might participate in the pathogenesis of interstitial cystitis/painful bladder syndrome and thus, they could provide new therapeutic targets (56). CRH, CRH-R1 and CRH-R2 have been reported in several types of carcinoma. Sato et al, have reported that intratumoral CRH and CRH-R1 signaling plays an important role in the progression of endometrial carcinoma and that CRH-R1 is a potent prognostic factor in patients with this disease (57). In the anterior pituitary, CRH binds to CRH-R1 of the corticotrophs (58). The ACTH response can be modulated by the number of CRH-R in these cells. Immobilization, stress, adrenalectomy, administration of CRH, AVP or GCs, reduce the number of CRH-R in the anterior pituitary but not in the brain (59). Binding of CRH to the receptor results in adenylcyclase activation, leading to an increase in intracellular cAMP concentration. Cyclic AMP (cAMP)-protein kisase A (PKA) pathway
