Corticotropin Releasing Hormone And The Immune/Inflammatory Response
KEYWORDS: crh, hormone, human, crh-, cells, expression, corticotropin-releasing, corticotropin-releasing hormone, endocrinology, inflammatory, journal, releasing, stress, receptor, response


not in the brain (59). Binding of CRH to the receptor results in adenylcyclase activation, leading to an increase in intracellular cAMP concentration. Cyclic AMP (cAMP)-protein kisase A (PKA) pathway is the main stimulator of CRH gene transcription. PKA inhibitor strongly blocks the forskolin-induced CRH promoter activity (60). The classical effects of CRH on anterior pituitary corticotrophs are mediated by the PKA signaling pathway (61). The coupling of CRH receptor and G protein may also stimulate other cAMP pathway events in a variety of brain-derived and peripheral cell lines. These events include the cross-talk between CRH receptor-initiated signal transduction and activation of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) in T cell. The molecular mechanism of this effect has been established through experiments using cultures of mouse thymocytes (62). It was shown that the CRH-induced activation of the NF-κB was mediated by two protein kinase systems, PKA and Protein Kinase C (PKC) (63, 64). CRH affects the PKC signaling pathway in the pituitary, Leydig cells, adrenals, placenta, immunocytes, myometrium and hippocampus. In human epidermoid cells, CRH induces the activity and the translocation of the conventional PKC isoenzymes (61). It is very interesting that UCN exerts its neuroprotective effect on cultured hippocampal neurons by the PKC pathway via activation of the CRH-R1 receptor (65). Activation of the PKC pathway may modify the sensitivity to CRH since it affects the number of CRH-Rs (66, 67). CRH increases the concentration of cytosolic calcium ions in calcium rich and in calcium free media. In both situations, PKA inhibitor [myristoylated PKA (Myr-GRTGR-RNAI-NH2)] abolishes the effect of CRH. However, PKC inhibitor [pseudo-substrate myristoylated alanine-rich PKC (Myr-N-FARK-GALRQ- NH2)] abolishes the effect of CRH only in calcium free conditions. As a result, the PKA signaling pathway mediates both effects of CRH while on the other hand the PKC signaling pathway mediates only the CRH-induced mobilization of calcium ions from intracellular stores, possibly via P-type calcium ion channel (68, 69, 70). CRH -R1α and -R1β exhibit differential responses to PKC-induced phosphorylation. This might represent an important mechanism for functional regulation of CRH signaling in target cells. PKC activation increases internalization of CRH-R1β but not CRH-R1α in a β-arrestin-independent manner, although both CRH-R1 variants are susceptible to homologous desensitization and internalization following treatment with CRH (71). It was shown that CRH-R2 and its high affinity ligand, UCN 1, are key mediators of the endoplasmatic reticulum stress response in a murine model of acute pancreatic
