Corticotropin Releasing Hormone And The Immune/Inflammatory Response
KEYWORDS: crh, hormone, human, crh-, cells, expression, corticotropin-releasing, corticotropin-releasing hormone, endocrinology, inflammatory, journal, releasing, stress, receptor, response


CRH (71). It was shown that CRH-R2 and its high affinity ligand, UCN 1, are key mediators of the endoplasmatic reticulum stress response in a murine model of acute pancreatic inflammation (72). Urocortin is known to participate in inflammation. The increased expression of intracellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM1) plays important role in inflammation and immune responses. Wan et al, have shown that UCN 1 significantly enhances the expression of ICAM1. Urocortin 1increases ICAM1 expression via cPLA2-NFkB and cPLA2-COX2-PGE2-PKA-CREB pathways by means of CRH-R2 in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (73). THE IMMUNE/INFLAMMATORY RESPONSE The I/I response is a reaction of the vascularized connective tissue, characterized by the accumulation of fluid and leukocytes in extravacular tissues. It is considered to be a protective mechanism aiming to rid the organism of both the initial cause of cell injury (such as micro-organisms, toxins, antigens) and its consequences (e.g. necrotic cells and tissues). In this process cellular and extra-cellular elements participate in a complex co-operative network. The cellular components of the I/I response include leukocytes such as monocytes-macrophages, polymorphonuclear neutrophils, eosinophils and basophils, platelets, dentritic cells, mast cells, epithelial and endothelial cells and fibroblasts (innate immune system) as well as lymphocytes T, B, NK (adaptive immune system). These cells co-operate using molecular signals, including cytokines [ILs, colony-stimulating factors (CSFs), interferons (IFNs), TNF, transforming growth factor (TGF), epidermal growth factor (EGF), chemokines], vasoactive amines (histamine, serotonine), plasma proteases (kinine system, complement system), arachidonic acid metabolites (prostaglandins, leukotrienes, lipoxins), platelet-activating factor (PAF), nitric oxide (NO) and neuropeptides. The first step in the initiation of the I/I response is the activation of the innate immune system. This nonspecific response serves to locate the injurious agent, restrict the tissue damage and eliminate the harmful agent, initiate the adaptive immune system and determine the path that will be followed (cellular / humoral response). In this procedure mast cells play an initiative role, early affecting the microvascular response. Mast cells are necessary for allergic reactions, but are increasingly implicated in acquired immunity and inflammatory diseases worsened by stress. Mast cells consist of two populations, distinguished by their enzyme content. The T (tissue) mast cells contain trypsin alone and are also termed mucosal mast cells due to their location near mucosal surfaces. The TC (connective tissue) mast cells contain both trypsin and chymotrypsin. Rapidly responding to any foreign stimulus substance, mast cells are activated leading to their degranulation, releasing several pro-inflammatory
