Corticotropin Releasing Hormone And The Immune/Inflammatory Response
KEYWORDS: crh, hormone, human, crh-, cells, expression, corticotropin-releasing, corticotropin-releasing hormone, endocrinology, inflammatory, journal, releasing, stress, receptor, response


surfaces. The TC (connective tissue) mast cells contain both trypsin and chymotrypsin. Rapidly responding to any foreign stimulus substance, mast cells are activated leading to their degranulation, releasing several pro-inflammatory mediators. The activation and degranulation of mast cells is regulated by several mediators such as IL-3 and stem cell factor (SCF). TNF seems to be an important mast cell survival factor whereas IFN-γ is a potential inducer of mast cell apoptosis (74, 75). Subsequently, the adaptive immune system is activated by the innate immune responses. As lymphocytes arrive at the inflammatory area, antigen-presenting cells (APCs) such as plasmacytoid dentritic cells, interstitial and Langerhans dentritic cells and astrocytes present infectious agent antigens of macrophages to T cells. This is the ignition signal for the activation of the adaptive immunity, consisting of cellular (T4, T8, NK lymphocytes) and humoral (B lymphocytes, plasma cells, antibodies) immunity. CD4 helper T cells are the regulators of this antigen-specific response. These cells can be subdivided on the basis of cytokines produced in Th1 T cells which promote primarily the cellular/inflammatory immunity and Th2 cells which have a primary role in the regulation of humoral immunity. T-helper cells produce interleukin 17, a cytokine that acts as a potent mediator in delayed-type reactions by increasing chemokine production in various tissues to recruit monocytes and neutrophils to the site of inflammation. IL-17 is induced by IL–23 which results in destructive tissue damage in delayed-type reactions. IL-17 acts synergistically with TNF and IL -1 . The balance between Th1 and Th2 is important for the homeostasis within the immune system. Glucocorticoids and catecholamines, the stress hormones, have a significant effect on this balance. Glucocorticoids suppress production of IL-12 by monocytes/macrophages, the main inducer of Th-1 responses (76, 77) and thus, they affect the Th-1/Th-2 balance leading to a Th-2 shift. In contrast to catecholamines, GCs also have a direct effect on Th-2 cells by up-regulating their IL-4, IL-10 and IL-13 production (77, 78). On the other hand, the two major catecholamines, norepinephrine (NE) and epinephrine potently inhibit the production of IL-12 by APCs thus suppressing the development of Th1 type cells (76, 79, 80). CRH AND THE IMMUNE/INFLAMMATORY RESPONSE Central CRH And The Immune/Inflammatory Response oThe immune response balances between pro- and anti- inflammatory actions (81). Hypothalamic CRH has been considered to act indirectly in an anti-inflammatory fashion, since the final product of the HPA axis stimulation is cortisol, known
