Corticotropin Releasing Hormone And The Immune/Inflammatory Response
KEYWORDS: crh, hormone, human, crh-, cells, expression, corticotropin-releasing, corticotropin-releasing hormone, endocrinology, inflammatory, journal, releasing, stress, receptor, response


pro- and anti- inflammatory actions (81). Hypothalamic CRH has been considered to act indirectly in an anti-inflammatory fashion, since the final product of the HPA axis stimulation is cortisol, known for its anti-inflammatory actions. Interleukin 6, a known proinflammatory cytokine, is a potent stimulator of the HPA axis and a secretagogue of magnocellular AVP. The subcutaneous administration of IL-6 in humans causes considerable elevations in plasma ACTH, cortisol and AVP (82). It has been proven that IL-6 levels are increased in patients with head trauma (an aseptic inflammation) and the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone. In this case IL-6 levels are strongly correlated with increased AVP levels (83). Cortisol secretion after dynamic stimulation is deficient in a subset of critically ill patients with moderate to severe head injury. This disorder is associated with prior vasopressor dependency and higher IL-6 levels (84). However, disturbances in the HPA axis activity affect the I/I response. An excessive HPA response (for example a state of stress or relative hypercortisolemia) can increase susceptibility to infectious agents and tumorogenesis but enhance resistance to autoimmune or aseptic inflammatory diseases. On the other hand, a defective HPA axis response (for example relative glucocorticoid deficient state) diminishes susceptibility to infections and tumorogenesis but increases susceptibility to autoimmune or aseptic inflammatory diseases. Indeed, these suggestions have been ascertained in Fischer and Lewis rats, two highly inbred strains selected for their resistance (Fischer rats) or susceptibility (Lewis rats) to inflammatory disease. In Lewis rats hypothalamic CRH neurons respond poorly to all neurotransmitters and the overall HPA-axis response to stress is decreased (1). Moreover, CRH deficiency disrupts endogenous glucocorticoid production and enhances allergen-induced airway inflammation and lung mechanical dysfunction in CRH knock-out mice. Thus inherited or acquired CRH deficiency could increase asthma severity in human subjects (85). Hypofunction of the HPA axis was also found in patients with Sjogren's syndrome (86) and sarcoidosis (87). Interestingly, high plasma levels of cortisol, CRH and ACTH that have been found in centenarians indicate an activation of the entire stress axis, likely counteracting the systemic inflammatory process occurring with age. This activation fits with the hypothesis that lifelong low-intensity stressors activate ancient, hormonal defense mechanisms, favoring healthy aging and longevity (88). On the other hand, the relative hypercortisolemia that accompanies ageing has been suggested to result from an age-related HPA axis resilience. Peripheral CRH And The Immune/Inflammatory Response The presence of CRH receptors in
