Corticotropin Releasing Hormone And The Immune/Inflammatory Response
KEYWORDS: crh, hormone, human, crh-, cells, expression, corticotropin-releasing, corticotropin-releasing hormone, endocrinology, inflammatory, journal, releasing, stress, receptor, response


hand, the relative hypercortisolemia that accompanies ageing has been suggested to result from an age-related HPA axis resilience. Peripheral CRH And The Immune/Inflammatory Response The presence of CRH receptors in human lymphocytes secreting POMC-derived peptides (ACTH and β-endorphin) supports the direct involvement of CRH in the I/I response (89). By employing the rat air pouch model of carrageenin-induced acute aseptic chemical inflammation, immunoreactive (Ir) CRH was detected in the inflamed area but not in the systemic circulation. Corticotropin releasing hormone produced in peripheral inflammatory sites, in contrast to its systemic indirect immunosuppressive effects, acts as an autocrine or paracrine inflammatory cytokine (32). Immunoreactive CRH was found in the synovial lining cell layers and blood vessels from the joints of patients with rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis (90), whereas high CRH levels were found in the synovial fluids of the former patients (91). In addition IrCRH was found in immune accessory cells from uveitic retinas and corpora vitrea from Lewis rats with experimentally induced autoimmune uveitis (29, 92). The local presence of CRH appears to be of pivotal importance in the process of experimental autoimmune uveoretinitis in rodents. Retinas from immunized B10.A mice treated with anti-CRH antibody showed significantly lower apoptosis and Fas and Fas ligand (FasL) expression than placebo-treated animals (93). Thus, CRH in inflammatory sites seems to be involved in the activation of the Fas/FasL system. On the other hand, studies of immunoneutralization in vivo with a highly specific anti-CRH polyclonal antiserum resulted in a major suppression of the inflammatory response (32). Somatostatin analogues have significant anti-inflammatory effects in vivo , associated with suppression of proinflammatory cytokines and neuropeptides. Corticotropin-releasing hormone levels at experimentally induced inflammatory sites are lowered in the presence of somatostatin analogues (94). Furthermore, locally produced somatostatin mediates the anti-inflammatory actions of GCs (95). Regarding studies on models of septic inflammation, CRH-deficient mice had reduced ileal secretion, histological damage and inflammation in response to clostridium difficile (toxin A). In addition, the content of SP (a sensory neuropeptide with pivotal role in the mediation and amplification of toxin A-induced inflammatory signal) at the inflammatory sites is CRH-dependent. These results revealed the major proinflammatory role of CRH in the pathophysiology of toxin A-mediated inflammatory diarrhea and indicate a SP-linked pathway (96). Recent findings support the idea that increased peripheral CRH mediates the enhanced visceral nociception in rats recovered from experimental colitis (97). Furthermore, IrCRH and CRH mRNA as well
