Corticotropin Releasing Hormone And The Immune/Inflammatory Response
KEYWORDS: crh, hormone, human, crh-, cells, expression, corticotropin-releasing, corticotropin-releasing hormone, endocrinology, inflammatory, journal, releasing, stress, receptor, response


pathway (96). Recent findings support the idea that increased peripheral CRH mediates the enhanced visceral nociception in rats recovered from experimental colitis (97). Furthermore, IrCRH and CRH mRNA as well as CRH binding sites are present in inflammatory cells of rat joint tissue with streptococcal cell wall- and adjuvant- induced arthritis (90, 98). Data exist showing that CRH enhances the expression of nitric oxide synthase (NOS III) to promote NO production from CRH-R1α expressing cells. These results confirm a role for CRH-R-mediated responses in regulating vascular changes associated with chronic synovitis (99). Corticotropin-releasing hormone acting through both receptors induces a significant increase of reactive oxygen species (ROS) content, catalase activity and superoxide dismutase activity, accompanied by a simultaneous significant decrease of endothelial NO activity and NO levels as well as a significant increase in nitrotyrosine (peroxynitrite) levels (100). These data indicate that CRH may act as a regulator of pro-inflammatory mechanisms inducing adaptation of endothelial cell function to local oxidative stress (100). Interestingly, CRH-deficient mice are resistant to experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (32). This effect of peripheral CRH is independent of its ability to increase corticosterone production, because adrenalectomized wild-type mice had similar disease course and severity as control mice. Thus, it seems that peripheral CRH exerts a proinflammatory effect in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis with a selective increase in Th1-type responses indicating a novel contribution of peripheral CRH to the regulation of Th1-mediated inflammation. These findings might have implications for the treatment of Th1-mediated diseases such as multiple sclerosis (MS), a demyelinating autoimmune disease characterized by inflammation of the central nervous system (101). Substantial evidence indicates that stress can precipitate or worsen symptoms of inflammation in multiple sclerosis (MS). However, the exact mechanism of how stress affects MS is not well understood. Karagkouni et al, proposed that neuropeptides secreted under stress, such as CRH and neurotensin, activate microglia and mast cells to release inflammatory molecules, leading to maturation and activation of T17 autoimmune cells, disruption of the blood-brain barrier and T cell entry into the central nervous system, thus promoting brain inflammation and contributing to MS pathology. Reduction of stress and inhibition of these processes by selected flavonoids could provide novel therapeutic approaches (102). Peripheral CRH exerts proinflammatory effects, possibly through mast cell activation. Acute psychological stress induces CRH-dependent mast cell degranulation. In a similar way CRH causes mast cell degranulation in human skin, releasing great amounts of histamine, which appears
