Corticotropin Releasing Hormone And The Immune/Inflammatory Response
KEYWORDS: crh, hormone, human, crh-, cells, expression, corticotropin-releasing, corticotropin-releasing hormone, endocrinology, inflammatory, journal, releasing, stress, receptor, response


mast cell activation. Acute psychological stress induces CRH-dependent mast cell degranulation. In a similar way CRH causes mast cell degranulation in human skin, releasing great amounts of histamine, which appears to be the principal mediator of the vasodilatory effects of CRH in human skin (103). In addition, CRH is synthesized and secreted by human mast cells acting in autocrine and paracrine fashion, especially in allergic inflammatory disorders exacerbated by stress (104). Finally, CRH can induce secretion of VEGF selectively (105). Stress participates and worsens not only asthma and atopic dermatitis but also acute coronary syndromes (ACSs) which are associated with coronary inflammation. Activation of coronary mast cells by stress through CRH and other neuropeptides, contributes to coronary inflammation and coronary artery disease. Therefore, inhibition of cardiac mast cells may be a novel treatment approach (106). Periodontal disease involves inflammation of the gingival tissues, caused by microbial pathogens. Recent research suggests that emotional stress worsens periodontal disease. Papathanasiou et al, proposed that stress-induced CRH secretion stimulates gingival mast cells and other neuropeptides and cytokines as well to secrete pro-inflammatory molecules that contribute to periodontal pathology. Stress reduction and/or mast cell inhibition may provide additional therapeutic approaches (107). Septic shock is associated with decreased ACTH synthesis in humans and in rats, which is not compensated by its two natural secretagogues, AVP and CRH. Polito et al, suggested that one underlying mechanism might be increased expression of iNOS in hypothalamic parvocellular neurons (108). In septic patients during cardiovascular deregulation, increased levels of POMC derivatives have been found. Majetec et al, found that after CRH administration, heart rate, cardiac index and stroke index increased and the systemic vascular resistance index decreased. Moreover, a positive correlation between ACTH concentration and stroke index as well as an inverse correlation between α-melanocyte stimulating hormone (αMSH) concentration and systemic vascular resistance index was observed. CRH and ACTH may have opposite effects on the blood pressure. Therefore, POMC derivatives seem to have influences on patients hemodynamic during sepsis (109). In patients with septic shock, the up-regulation of mHLA-DR expression after CRH infusion is independent of POMC derivatives release. From the positive correlation between plasma concentration of αMSH and mHLA-DR expression they concluded that in this group of patients, the down-regulation of mHLA-DR expression is accompanied by the loss of αMSH release by monocytes into the cardiovascular compartment (110). It has been shown previously that CRH induces NF-κB DNA-binding activity
