Corticotropin Releasing Hormone And The Immune/Inflammatory Response
KEYWORDS: crh, hormone, human, crh-, cells, expression, corticotropin-releasing, corticotropin-releasing hormone, endocrinology, inflammatory, journal, releasing, stress, receptor, response


down-regulation of mHLA-DR expression is accompanied by the loss of αMSH release by monocytes into the cardiovascular compartment (110). It has been shown previously that CRH induces NF-κB DNA-binding activity in mouse and human leukocytes. Karalis et al., demonstrated that in the human monocytic P-1 cells, CRH activates the PI3K/Akt and ERK1/2 pathways. CRH-R2 mediates these CRH effects as suggested by their abolishment following treatment with the specific CRH-R2 antagonist, Astressin 2B. The CRH-mediated PI3K/Akt activation induces cell survival as suggested by the stimulation of the anti-apoptotic factor Bcl-2. ERK1/2 activation results in upregulation of IL-8 expression, an effect inhibited by the CRH-induced activation of PI3K/Akt. These studies demonstrate novel effects of CRH in human monocytes mediated by the activation of PI3K/Akt and they reveal pathway-specific effects of the CRH/CRH-R2 system in chemokine activation and cell survival which is important for the development of new therapeutic agents for inflammatory diseases (111). CRH In The Female Reproductive System Peripheral CRH and its receptors have been identified in most female reproductive tissues, including ovary, uterus and placenta (20, 37, 38, 53, 112, 113). Most of the CRH effects in the reproductive tract seem to be carried out via its proinflammatory properties as in the case of ovulation, luteolysis (37, 38) and blastocyst implantation (114). Ovarian CRH and CRH receptors Ovarian CRH is primarily found in the theca and stroma and also in the cytoplasm of the oocyte (37, 38). Corticotropin releasing hormone R1 receptors are detected in the ovarian stroma and the theca and in the cumulus oophorus of the graafian follicle (37, 52). Granulosa cells are devoid of the expression of CRH and CRH-R1 genes and peptides (52). The abundant expression of the gene encoding CRH and CRH-R1 in mature follicles compared to that in small antral follicles indicates that the CRH-CRH-R1 system in the theca cells may play autocrine and paracrine roles in steroidogenesis and follicular maturation. Several studies have reported that CRH suppresses ovarian steroidogenesis in vitro (115-117). Corticotropin releasing hormone exerts an inhibitory effect on estrogen and progesterone production in human granulosa-lutein cells isolated from the follicular fluid upon oocyte retrieval (115-117). Likewise, Erden et al. demonstrated that CRH inhibited LH-stimulated DHEA and androstenedione production in isolated follicular theca cells. Corticotropin releasing hormone and CRH receptors were shown to be predominantly expressed in luteinized theca cells of the early degenerating corpus luteum, which were losing their steroidogenic function
