Corticotropin Releasing Hormone And The Immune/Inflammatory Response
KEYWORDS: crh, hormone, human, crh-, cells, expression, corticotropin-releasing, corticotropin-releasing hormone, endocrinology, inflammatory, journal, releasing, stress, receptor, response


theca cells. Corticotropin releasing hormone and CRH receptors were shown to be predominantly expressed in luteinized theca cells of the early degenerating corpus luteum, which were losing their steroidogenic function (118). This finding may be one of the pieces of evidence suggesting that CRH could be linked to the processes of follicular atresia and luteolysis. Τhe addition of CRH has an inhibitory effect on in vitro fertilized oocytes, resulting from cultured preantral follicles at all stages of preimplantation embryo development (119). In addition, the presence of CRH in the culture medium inhibits steroidogenesis by preantral mouse follicles cultured in vitro (119). CRH-R1 is present in stages of mouse follicle growth, whereas 10 -9 , 10 -7 and 10 -6 mol/L CRH inhibits oocyte maturation in vitro , an effect reversed by antalarmin addition (120). CRH, UCN and CRHR gene expression is higher during the regression of the human corpus luteum than in the earlier stages of the luteal phase (118). This discrepancy may result from the difference between species, methods for classifying stages of the luteal phase and /or techniques employed. Xiao et al., have also shown that systemic administration of astressin in the rhesus monkeys accelerates the return to normal luteal function, presumably by restoring normal neuroendocrine regulation of gonadotropin secretion (121). This could be CRH-receptor mediated at the level of GnRH pulse generator. It is known that CRH inhibits the latter in rodents and primates. Stresscopin/urocortin 3 system is present in human ovaries (SCP/Ucn3 and CRH-R2 mRNAs and proteins are expressed in cultured human granulosa-lutein cells). Treatment with SCP/Ucn3 inhibits progesterone production in these cells through interaction with CRH-R2, a phenomenon reversed by the CRH antagonist antisauvagine-30 (122). Uterine CRH and CRH receptors Epithelial cells of the human endometrium and differentiated stromal cells also express the CRH gene (53, 114, 123). In addition, CRH-R1 is present in both epithelial and stromal cells of human endometrium and myometrium (124-126). Although it is known that CRH is expressed in myometrial smooth muscle cells with CRH transcript and Ir peptide increasing significantly with pregnancy, it is not clear whether the peptide responsible for the direct activation of myometrial CRH receptors is circulating placental CRH acting by paracrine diffusion, or endogenous myometrial CRH acting locally, or a combination of both (127, 128). Non-pregnant human myometrium expresses three CRH-R subtypes, namely CRH -R1α, -R1β and -R2β. Endometrial CRH participates in the regulation of
