Corticotropin Releasing Hormone And The Immune/Inflammatory Response
KEYWORDS: crh, hormone, human, crh-, cells, expression, corticotropin-releasing, corticotropin-releasing hormone, endocrinology, inflammatory, journal, releasing, stress, receptor, response


CRH acting locally, or a combination of both (127, 128). Non-pregnant human myometrium expresses three CRH-R subtypes, namely CRH -R1α, -R1β and -R2β. Endometrial CRH participates in the regulation of intrauterine inflammatory processes such as stroma decidualization, blastocyst implantation and early maternal tolerance (129). The progesterone-induced decidualization is modulated by locally produced inflammatory factors. Epithelial and stromal CRH affects decidualization of stromal cells by regulating local modulators i.e. prostanoids (PGE2) and cytokines (IL-1 and IL-6). The net effect of its actions is the fine–tuning of the decidualizing effect of progesterone (130). The blastocyst may modulate the expression of endometrial CRH through IL-1 and/or PGE2 secretion. Endometriosis is considered as an aseptic inflammatory disease, characterized by the presence of ectopic endometrium-like tissue. Corticotropin-releasing hormone -R1β and -R2α are expressed in endometriotic sites and they are more strongly expressed in eutopic endometrium of women with endometriosis compared to healthy women endometrium at the mRNA and protein level (131). Corticotropin-releasing hormone, UCN, CRH -R1 and -R2 mRNAs and proteins are also more highly expressed in ectopic rather than eutopic endometrium in women with endometriosis. These findings indicate that CRH and UCN might play an immunoregulatory role in endometriotic sites by affecting reproductive functions such as decidualization and implantation in women with endometriosis (131). Placental CRH and CRH receptors Placental CRH is synthesized in syncytiotrophoblast cells, in placental decidua and fetal membranes (132, 133) and is secreted into the maternal circulation during gestation. Its concentrations increase exponentially as pregnancy progresses (134). The presence in plasma and in amniotic fluid of a CRH-binding protein (CRHbp) that reduces the bioactivity of circulating CRH by binding is unique to humans (135). Placental CRH may participate in the physiology of pregnancy and the onset of parturition. Placental trophoblasts express both CRH -R1 and -R2 (136). The syncytiocytotrophoblasts of the placenta and the fetal membranes express the CRH -R1α, -R1c, -R1d and -R2β subtypes (137). By contrast to the hypothalamic CRH system, the production of placental CRH is positively regulated by both fetal and maternal GCs (138). This positive feed-forward system is another unique feature of placental CRH, and indicates a distinct role in pregnancy (139). Placental CRH production is also modified by estrogen, progesterone and NO which are inhibitory and by a range of neuropeptides which are stimulatory (140). CRH increases estrogen biosynthesis in cultured human placental cells (141). Role of CRH in Pregnancy (pre- and post- partum
