Corticotropin Releasing Hormone And The Immune/Inflammatory Response
KEYWORDS: crh, hormone, human, crh-, cells, expression, corticotropin-releasing, corticotropin-releasing hormone, endocrinology, inflammatory, journal, releasing, stress, receptor, response


inhibitory and by a range of neuropeptides which are stimulatory (140). CRH increases estrogen biosynthesis in cultured human placental cells (141). Role of CRH in Pregnancy (pre- and post- partum conditions) As pregnancy progresses, the myometrium starts to express CRH-R2α. In addition, at term, the myometrium expresses the CRH -R1c and -R1d subtypes, indicating a possible functional role for these receptor subtypes at the end of pregnancy (142). CRH-R1 maintains myometrial quiescence whereas CRH-R2 promotes smooth muscle contractility. The protein level of CRH-R1 in upper segment myometrium is significantly down-regulated in pregnancy, with a further decrease at the onset of labor. However, the expression of CRH-R1 in lower segment myometrium remains unchanged during pregnancy and labor. No significant changes are observed in the expression of CRH-R2 in upper or lower segment myometrium (143). Endometrial CRH may also participate in early maternal tolerance of semiallograft embryo. Subsequently, endometrial CRH, in association with other local factors, may participate in a local inflammatory response at the site of implantation, rendering the endometrial surface adhesive for the attachment of the blastocyst (144). Ιn line with this hypothesis, a significantly higher concentration (3.5-fold) of the CRH transcript and its peptide product were shown at the early implantation sites of pregnant rats compared to the interimplantation uterine regions (114). Furthermore, it has been suggested that CRH participates in the nidation of the fertilized egg by inhibiting the local maternal immune response to the implanted embryo. Indeed, CRH of maternal (decidua) and fetal (trophoblast) origin acts in an autocrine/paracrine fashion, through CRH-R1, to stimulate FasL protein expression by extravillous trophoblasts and decidual cells and to potentiate the ability of these cells to induce apoptosis of the surrounding maternal T lymphocytes activated by the presence of the embryo (145). Abnormalities of maternal tolerance pointing at inadequate CRH-mediated self induction of FasL in extravillous trophoblasts (EVTs) and decidual cells may have deleterious consequences for the developing fetus. In line with these findings, female rats treated with a CRH antagonist (antalarmin) in the first six days of gestation had a dose-dependent decrease of endometrial implantation sites and markedly diminished FasL protein expression (146). Makrigiannakis et al., have studied the hypothesis that the expression of the pro-apoptotic Fas/FasL system at the implantation site is impaired in abortions. They reported that abortive deciduas contain leukocytes that are positive for FasL and EVTs, which show increased rates of apoptosis and increased expression of
