Corticotropin Releasing Hormone And The Immune/Inflammatory Response
KEYWORDS: crh, hormone, human, crh-, cells, expression, corticotropin-releasing, corticotropin-releasing hormone, endocrinology, inflammatory, journal, releasing, stress, receptor, response


implantation site is impaired in abortions. They reported that abortive deciduas contain leukocytes that are positive for FasL and EVTs, which show increased rates of apoptosis and increased expression of Fas, in contrast to normal pregnancies (147). By mid gestation, CRH levels are correlated inversely with gestational length making this peptide a unique candidate for regulation of fetal endocrine systems (135, 148). In addition, the placental CRH/CRH-R system has been associated with the pathological mechanisms leading to preeclampsia. A reduction of both CRH-R1 and CRH-R2 might result in a disturbance of the balance controlling vascular tone toward vasoconstriction. Although very little is known regarding regulation of expression of CRH-Rs in intrauterine tissues, it is possible that chronic exposure to elevated levels of placental CRH in preeclampsia or IUGR might downregulate its own receptors (149). In fetuses with fetal growth restriction umbilical cord CRH is also elevated (150). Interestingly, the observed down-regulation of CRH-R in the pre-eclamptic placenta is not an isolated finding: several hormonal signals that regulate NOS expression and activity have attenuated effects due to down-regulation of their respective receptors, including CRH -R1 and -R2. This down-regulation results in compromised responses and reduced relaxation in feto-placental vessels from pre-eclamptic placentas (151). Near term the human fetal adrenals initiate production of cortisol, which promotes organ maturation and acts to increase placental CRH biosynthesis and therefore participates in the endocrine cascade that is involved in the timing of human parturition (152). The adrenal glands represent the largest endocrine glands in the fetus and at term they weigh the same as adult adrenal glands. Late in gestation, the definite zone expresses the enzymes needed for the production of aldosterone, the transitional zone those for cortisol, and throughout gestation the fetal zone expresses enzymes and cofactors needed for high levels of DHEAS production (153). The ability of CRH to stimulate both cortisol and DHEAS is highly significant because it would allow the fetal adrenal to work with the placenta to create a feed-forward endocrine cascade that would not end until the separation of the fetus from the placenta at delivery. Especially, if CRH can stimulate fetal adrenals to produce cortisol, then the fetal-derived cortisol can stimulate placental CRH production via the unique glucocorticoid-positive feedback system seen in the human placenta. The placental effect may involve activation of different CRH-R subtypes or the initiation of a different cascade of events after binding to the
