Corticotropin Releasing Hormone And The Immune/Inflammatory Response
KEYWORDS: crh, hormone, human, crh-, cells, expression, corticotropin-releasing, corticotropin-releasing hormone, endocrinology, inflammatory, journal, releasing, stress, receptor, response


feedback system seen in the human placenta. The placental effect may involve activation of different CRH-R subtypes or the initiation of a different cascade of events after binding to the receptor (154). This positive feedback cascade results in rising placental CRH and fetal cortisol production in the last trimester of human gestation (152). It is not surprising that cumulative impact of enduring stress such as low economic position and racism may condition or unmask neuroendocrine mechanisms ‘priming’ the likelihood of preterm delivery. A US study reported an association between low family income and high maternal CRH (155). In addition reported findings from the Black Women Health Study show an impact of individually directed racism on the risk of preterm delivery (156). Additionally, infection and inflammation of the maternal genital tract believed to account for 20-30% of preterm deliveries are more prevalent among black women (157). The pathogenesis of preterm delivery is not clear, although inflammation/infection play a major role. Corticotropin-releasing hormone and UCN are involved in the pathogenesis of preterm delivery. Corticotropin-releasing hormone, UCN2 and CRH-R1 mRNA expression is higher, while UCN and CRH-R2 mRNA expression is lower in placentas with premature rupture of membranes (pPROM) with chorioamnionitis that in preterm deliveries and pPROM (158). Urocortin 3 mRNA expression was lower in pPROM with and without chorioamnionitis than in preterm delivery. These findings showed a significant association of pPROM with chorioamnionitis on placental CRH peptides and receptors, suggesting that placental expression of stress-related pathways is activated in infectious processes (158). Taking into account that placental CRH plays a central role in modulating the effects of hypoxia, infections, possible decidual haemorrhage and psychosocial stress per se on prematurity-related outcomes, it is likely that placental CRH levels are related to the length of gestation and fetal growth either directly by participating in physiologic processes involved in parturition and fetal maturation, or indirectly by bringing to light anterpartum conditions priming for prematurity. Prostaglandin administration for labor induction increases bioactive maternal CRH via reduction of circulating CRH-BP levels, as well as increase of maternal CRH levels. This positive feedback of prostaglandin on maternal CRH release might contribute to the development of active labor (159). Women with preterm labor, or those destined to have premature delivery, have higher mid-pregnancy plasma CRH level than those who delivered at term (150). Corticotropin releasing hormone, UCN, tryptase and IL-8 levels are significantly increased in products of conception of
