Corticotropin Releasing Hormone And The Immune/Inflammatory Response
KEYWORDS: crh, hormone, human, crh-, cells, expression, corticotropin-releasing, corticotropin-releasing hormone, endocrinology, inflammatory, journal, releasing, stress, receptor, response


delivery, have higher mid-pregnancy plasma CRH level than those who delivered at term (150). Corticotropin releasing hormone, UCN, tryptase and IL-8 levels are significantly increased in products of conception of women with spontaneous abortions and these levels are highest in patients with at least two spontaneous abortions (150). IL-8, an inflammatory cytokine, may play an important role in the process of protease-induced neurogenic inflammation, contributing to stress-induced proinflammatory effects of mast cells in aborted products of conception, by recruiting neutrophils and lymphocytes in the endometrium (160). In some women with idiopathic preterm labor, CRH levels increase up to 10 weeks before the development of any symptoms. The biological purpose of CRH secretion is not yet known; it might reflect the increased stress of the feto-maternal unit and the role of CRH is to integrate the homeostatic mechanisms that allow the mother (and the fetus) to adapt to the increasingly stressful environment, thus acting as a “true” stress hormone, or it might actively be involved in the mechanism leading to the onset of labor, or both (139). Women presenting with preterm labor have higher levels of IL-1β and CRH than women at the same week of gestation who delivered at term. There might be a positive relationship between IL-1β and placental CRH which may lead to enhanced production of the latter and facilitating, as a result, the onset of labor. It seems, however, that critical levels of CRH must be achieved for the onset of labor (161). IL-6 and CRH are both secreted in a pulsatile function during the active phase of term human labor. The time-integrated concentrations of the two hormones are positively correlated, with IL-6 leading CRH secretion (162). It appears, thus, that proinflammatory mediators may be direct and/or indirect promoters of placental CRH release. Furthermore, the secretion of IL-6, which is a myokine, seems to be associated positively with uterine contractility. Additional studies are needed to elucidate the combined effect of inflammation, placental CRH release and/or CRH-Rs in parturition (162). Corticotropin-releasing hormone induces the production of chemokines and cytokines in myometrium at term and subsequently participates in the cascade of inflammation in uterus (163). The CRH-induced inflammation can lead to activation of the uterus (163). Pregnancy is known to be a state of transient hypercortisolemia (135). Increased levels of unbound placental CRH may be responsible for the hypercortisolism of the second half of pregnancy. This hypercortisolism is followed
