Corticotropin Releasing Hormone And The Immune/Inflammatory Response
KEYWORDS: crh, hormone, human, crh-, cells, expression, corticotropin-releasing, corticotropin-releasing hormone, endocrinology, inflammatory, journal, releasing, stress, receptor, response


to be a state of transient hypercortisolemia (135). Increased levels of unbound placental CRH may be responsible for the hypercortisolism of the second half of pregnancy. This hypercortisolism is followed by a transient suppression of hypothalamic CRH secretion in the postpartum period. This may explain the depressive states frequently observed in the postpartum period (164). CRH RECEPTOR ANTAGONISTS. PERSPECTIVES ‘Peripheral CRH’, which is identical to central CRH, found in immune organs and inflammatory sites is present at high levels in many sites of experimental inflammation in the rat (93, 96) and mouse (32, 104) and in a variety of aseptic or septic inflammatory sites examined thus far in humans. The latter include the inflamed joints of patients with rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis (90). Multiple research groups have demonstrated the expression of CRH and their receptors in several components of the immune system and their participation in the regulation of inflammatory phenomena suggesting that administration of CRH antagonists/inhibitors might improve the clinical profile of such conditions. Αntalarmin, N-butyl-N-ethyl-[2,5,6-trimethyl-7-(2,4,6)-trimethylphenyl)-7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl] amine has been synthesized as a therapeutic tool for both CNS and inflammatory disorders associated with central and peripheral CRH hypersecretion, respectively (165). Regarding the anti-inflammatory properties of this CRH-R1 antagonist on peripheral CRH activity, antalarmin has ameliorated carrageenin-induced aseptic inflammation in rats, and acute and chronic streptococcal cell wall- and adjuvant-induced arthritis in Lewis rats (165, 166). In addition, antalarmin prolonged survival of mice subjected to LPS-induced septic shock by lowering pro-inflammatory cytokine levels (36). Astressin B, a nonspecific CRH receptor antagonist is shown to have a different antagonist profile than antalarmin. Astressin B is unlikely to have access to the CNS following systemic administration in contrast to antalarmin which exerts its activity on the CNS. The differences between antalarmin and astressin B may be due either to non-CRH receptor-mediated effects of antalarmin or to a complex interaction of antalarmin effects at both central and peripheral CRH-Rs (167). Another study demonstrated that antalarmin and astressin exert different effects on prostaglandin biosynthetic enzymes and thereby modulate the output of prostaglandins from placenta which would be important for controlling pregnancy and parturition (168). Xiao et al., showed that astressin B treatment accelerates the return to normal cyclicity, by restoring the normal neuroendocrine regulation of gonadotropin secretion. This effect of CRH receptor antagonist happens although astressin B does not blunt the peripheral HPA axis response to the stressor. The ability to restore normal luteal phase
