Rev Paul Pediatr. 2014;32(4):403–411
KEYWORDS: patients, nutritional, bowel, children, disease, inflammatory, htiw, inflammatory bowel, dna, growth, nerdlihc, ibds, bowel disease, dbi, eht


Rev Paul Pediatr. 2014;32(4):403–411 REVISTA PAULISTA DE PEDIATRIA www.spsp.org.br REVIEw ARTIcLE Nutritional impact of inflammatory bowel diseases on children and adolescents☆ Gilton Marques dos Santos*, Luciana Rodrigues Silva, Genoile Oliveira Santana Received 19 December 2013; accepted 7 April 2014 KeywORdS Abstract Nutritional assessment; Objective: To perform a sistematiy review of the literature about the nutritional impact Nutritional status; of inflammatory bowel diseases in children and adolescents. Inflammatory bowel Data sources: A systematic review was performed using PubMed/MEDLINE, LILAcS and diseases; SciELO databases, with inclusion of articles in Portuguese and in English with original child; data, that analyzed nutritional aspects of inflammatory bowel diseases in children Adolescent and adolescents. The initial search used the terms “inflammatory bowel diseases” and “children” or “adolescents” and “nutritional evaluation” or “nutrition deficiency”. The selection of studies was initially performed by reading the titles and abstracts. Review studies and those withouth data for pediatric patients were excluded. Subsequently, the full reading of the articles considered relevant was performed. inclusion criteria. None of them was performed in South America. During the analysis of the studies, it was observed that nutritional characteristics of patients with inflammatory bowel disease may be altered; the main reports were related to malnutrition, growth stunting, delayed puberty and vitamin D deficiency. Conclusion: There are nutritional consequences of inflammatory bowel diseases in children and adolescents, mainly growth stunting, slower pubertal development, underweight and vitamin deficiencies. Nutritional impairments were more significant in patients with crohn’s disease; overweight and obesity were more common in patients with ulcerative rectocolitis. A detailed nutritional assessment should be performed periodically in children and adolescents with inflammatory bowel disease. © 2014 Sociedade de Pediatria de São Paulo. Published by Elsevier Editora Ltda. All rights reserved. ☆Study conducted at the Service of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Hepatology (complexo HUPES-cPPHO) and Faculdade de Medicina *corresponding author. E-mail: (G.M. Santos). DOI of the original article: 1984-0462/$ - see front matter © 2014 Sociedade de Pediatria de São Paulo. Published by Elsevier Editora Ltda. All rights reserved. 404 Santos GM et al PALAvRAS-chAve Repercussões nutricionais em crianças e adolescentes na presença de doenças Avaliação nutricional; inflamatórias intestinais Estado nutricional; Doenças inflamatórias Resumo intestinais; Objetivo: Realizar revisão sistemática de literatura sobre repercussões nutricionais em criança; crianças e adolescentes na presença de doenças inflamatórias intestinais. Adolescente Fontes de dados: Realizada revisão sistemática utilizando as bases de dados PubMed/ MEDLINE, LILAcS e SciELO, com inclusão de artigos em língua
