Rev Paul Pediatr. 2014;32(4):403–411
KEYWORDS: patients, nutritional, bowel, children, disease, inflammatory, htiw, inflammatory bowel, dna, growth, nerdlihc, ibds, bowel disease, dbi, eht


house and not finding perform a systematic review on the nutritional implications a public restroom available, among others, which limit the of the presence of IBDs in children and adolescents. quality of life. Patients also report feeding problems, a fact that contributes to the worsening of the nutritional impairment, to the development of anemia, stunted growth Method and systemic complications.14 which affect all strata of society. IBDs can aggravate in PubMed/ MEDLINE, SciELO and LILAcS databases to nutritional deficiencies, causing malnutrition, but in some identify the literature published from January 2006 to cases they may be associated with overweight as a result January 2013, using the following terms: (Nutritional of drugs and aspects of binge eating. Inadequate nutritional assessment OR nutritional disorders OR body compositions) status is a poor prognosis and may influence treatment AND (Inflammatory bowel diseases OR crohn disease response, as well as morbidity and mortality.15,16 OR ulcerative disease) AND (children OR pediatrics OR Nutritional assessment is of great importance for all adolescents). Only studies published in Portuguese and pediatric patients, especially those with IBDs, allowing English, with original data that analyzed dietary habits of early identification of nutritional alterations, and it can be children and adolescents with IBDs were included. Review performed with anthropometric data, biochemical indices, studies and those with no results for pediatric patients sophisticated tests, and even through nutritional survey.18,19 were excluded. One of the most used methods is the assessment of Body Study selection was initially performed by reading the Mass Index (BMI), calculated by dividing the patient’s titles and abstracts of articles. In the second phase, the weight by the squared height. Based on the BMI vs. age reading of the methods section was performed, and in the charts and the z score, one can classify the nutritional third phase, the reading of the full texts was carried out. status of children.20,21 Adequate nutritional status, growth The non-relevant articles were discarded (Fig. 1). After and development are key aspects in pediatric patients from analyzing and interpreting the articles, the information 406 Santos GM et al was organized in thematic groups. As this is a systematic found that patients with growth problems achieve lower review, it was not necessary to submit the study to the mean final target height than healthy individuals. ethics committee for approval. Hood et al,27 in 2011, assessed 475 men and women with IBD aged 16, 18 and 20
