Rev Paul Pediatr. 2014;32(4):403–411
KEYWORDS: patients, nutritional, bowel, children, disease, inflammatory, htiw, inflammatory bowel, dna, growth, nerdlihc, ibds, bowel disease, dbi, eht


to the mean final target height than healthy individuals. ethics committee for approval. Hood et al,27 in 2011, assessed 475 men and women with IBD aged 16, 18 and 20 years to evaluate the final adult height and found no significant differences between the height of Results patients with IBD and that of healthy individuals, despite the identified growth problems. These authors emphasize After the search for published articles on the topic, the the importance of identifying patients with early growth review identified 237 studies published during the defined retardation. Aurangzeb et al22 and Hood et al27 reported period on the nutritional aspects of children and adolescents that those diagnosed in the prepubertal or pubertal stages with IBDs. A total of 223 articles were found in PubMed, are more vulnerable to pubertal and growth delay, and 10 in LILAcS and 4 in SciELO. After exclusions, 12 articles consequently, to a compromised final height, especially if were selected for final assessment, and they comprised the diagnosis occurs before Tanner stages 1 and 2. Thayu et this systematic review (Fig. 1). The selected studies were al28 analyzed 78 patients with cD and 669 controls aged 5 to carried out in four countries: United States, United Kingdom, 21 years and found older age for the same Tanner stage in Australia and Pakistan, with nine of them having been carried cD patients, demonstrating that, in association with growth out in the United States. There were no studies carried out retardation, children and adolescents with IBDs often have in Brazil. The list is shown in Table 1. pubertal delay. Nutrient and vitamin deficiencies are reported, mainly Nutritional characteristics in IBds vitamin D deficiency. Pappa et al,29 in 2011, assessed 448 patients with IBD and showed that hypovitaminosis The analyzed studies showed that pediatric IBD patients, D is prevalent in children and adolescents. At least one especially those with cD, have alterations in nutritional measurement of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25-OHD) was status, and malnutrition is frequently reported. Aurangzeb reported in this study and classified as optimal (>32ng/ et al22 studied 28 children with IBD and compared them mL), suboptimal (≤2ng/mL), insufficient (≤20ng/mL) and with healthy children. The first showed lower BMI z score deficient (≤15ng/mL) levels. Serum 25-OHD levels less than and lower weight for age (p=0.05 and p=0.01, respectively), optimal were reported in 58.5% of patients, and insufficient and lower levels of leptin, suggesting malnutrition.
