Rev Paul Pediatr. 2014;32(4):403–411
KEYWORDS: patients, nutritional, bowel, children, disease, inflammatory, htiw, inflammatory bowel, dna, growth, nerdlihc, ibds, bowel disease, dbi, eht


URc. Long nutritional impairment in cD patients when compared to et al24 found that the prevalence of obesity or overweight those with URc, as a consequence of the greater severity was 20% in patients with cD versus 30% of those with and extent of the affected area in the digestive tract. cD URc. cD patients with excess weight had higher rates of usually affects the small intestine segments responsible for complications, such as IBD-related surgeries. Patients with absorption, as well as frequently affecting the colon and URc who use corticosteroids have a greater association other parts of the digestive tract.35-37 Not only the extent with excess weight. of the involvement, but also the severity, presentation, Kugathasan et al25 found a prevalence of excess weight extraintestinal manifestations and comorbidities that or obesity of approximately 10% in cD, and 20% to 30% may impair the nutritional status should be taken into in URc. The authors also observed that the BMI value at account.34,41 diagnosis depends on the type of disease, with less excess If not identified and treated, malnutrition in pediatric with cD. Lee et al,26 when assessing the linear growth prognosis and consequent reduction in immune competence, 410 Santos GM et al increased infections, growth and development delay, multidisciplinary resources. More studies are needed in the social problems and higher rates of comorbidities. Stunted pediatric age range with larger sample sizes. growth and pubertal delay are significantly important manifestations in pediatric patients and may be the first several studies35-37 emphasizing the growth delay, which was reported in 18 to 22% of patients. The authors declare no conflicts of interest. Several studies have shown high rates of growth retardation, often preceding the intestinal manifestations, ranging between 5% and 88%, with cD patients experimenting References higher rates of nutritional impairment when compared to patients with URc. In association with growth retardation, 1. Heyman MB, Kirschner BS, Gold BD, Ferry G, Baldassano R, impairment of pubertal development is observed in 20-30% cohen SA et al. Children with early-onset inflammatory bowel of patients, mainly in those with cD38,41,42 of multifactorial disease (IBD): analysis of a pediatric IBD consortium registry. J Pediatr 2005;146:35-40. etiology.35,36 2. Salviano FN, Burgos MG, Santos EC. Perfil socioeconômico e Other explanations for growth delay are associated nutricional de pacientes com doença inflamatória intestinal with the use of medications, especially corticosteroids internados em um hospital universitário. Arq Gastroenterol and hormonal disturbances caused
