E-8 E-page Original Images
KEYWORDS: fig, liver, milan-italy, emergency, asst, grande, grande ospedale, asst grande, ospedale, metropolitano niguarda, hematoma, chest, metropolitano, function, right


E-8 E-page Original Images Cangrelor bridging strategy for liver vice (Fig. 1-a2) was applied, with return of spontaneous circula- tion after 25 min. EKG highlighted an anterior ST-elevation, with damage after mechanical chest severe post-resuscitation myocardial dysfunction observed on Echo (Fig. 1-a3). compression After administering Aspirin and crushed Ticagrelor, an emer- gent coronary angiography was performed with the evidence of an occluded LAD/diagonal bifurcation treated with a reverse- A 48-year-old woman admitted herself with chest pain to crush technique stenting (Fig. 1b, 1c, 1d). the emergency department where she subsequently collapsed. The patient did very well in the following hours until unex- She was in refractory ventricular fibrillation (Fig. 1-a1), and af- pected hypotension occurred. Ultrasound revealed a grade III ter 15 min of conventional CPR, a mechanical compression de- right liver injury with a ruptured sub-capsular hematoma (Fig. b c d e f g h i Figure 1. (a1, a2, a3) EKGs and chest compression device; (b, c, d) Interventional coronary angiographies; (e) trans-hepatic ultrasound view of pleural and perihepathic fluid collection; (f) Abdominal CT after perihepatic packing; (g) Thromboelastography/platelet function assay (TEG 6s Haemonet- ics®); (h) Right-sided view of the enlarged right liver lobe hematoma; (i) The remaining liver parenchyma after emergency liver resection E-9 Anatol J Cardiol 2019; 22: E-8-10 E-page Original Images 1e). An emergency laparotomy for damage control surgery with perihepatic packing was decided (Fig. 1f). Bleeding persisted af- ter selective hepatic embolization, and a right hepatic lobectomy was performed. Bridging therapy with cangrelor was applied us- ing thromboelastography with platelets mapping for drug titration (TEG 6s Haemonetics®) (Fig. 1g). The lobectomy was successful (Fig. 1h, 1i), and the patient had a complete full recovery with normalization of the left ven- tricular function. She returned to work 1 month later in good health. Antiplatelets and anticoagulants may exacerbate an ex- isting liver injury into a large intrahepatic hematoma, a very rare flip side of successful resuscitation. The otherwise fatal complication, in a precarious ischemic–hemorrhagic balance, was successfully managed thanks to a perioperative bridge therapy with cangrelor titrated according to thromboelastogra- phy/platelet function assay and a coordinated multidisciplinary team approach. Alberto Francesco Cereda, Giuseppe Seresini, Nuccia Morici1,2, Paolo Aseni*, Osvaldo Chiara** Lario; Sondrio-Italy 1Intensive Cardiac Care Unit and De Gasperis Cardio Center, ASST Grande Ospedale Metropolitano Niguarda; Milan-Italy Università degli Studi di Milano; Milan-Italy Departments of *Emergency, and **General Surgery and Trauma Team, ASST Grande Ospedale
