Angina Pectoris - Cardiovascular Disorders - Merck Manual Professional Edition
KEYWORDS: angina, coronary, patients, stress, ecg, disease, symptoms, artery, myocardial, coronary artery, risk, lesions, used, angina pectoris, pectoris


Angina pectoris is a clinical syndrome of precordial discomfort or pressure due to transient myocardial ischemia without infarction. It is typically precipitated by exertion or psychologic stress and relieved by rest or sublingual nitroglycerin. Diagnosis is by symptoms, electrocardiography, and myocardial imaging. Treatment may include antiplatelet medications, nitrates, beta- blockers, calcium channel blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, statins, and coronary angioplasty or coronary artery bypass graft surgery. (See also Overview of Coronary Artery Disease.) Etiology of Angina Pectoris Angina pectoris occurs when Cardiac workload and resultant myocardial oxygen demand exceed the ability of coronary arteries to supply an adequate amount of oxygenated blood Such imbalance between supply and demand can occur when the arteries are narrowed. Narrowing usually results from Coronary artery atherosclerosis Narrowing of the coronary arteries can also result from Coronary artery spasm Coronary artery embolism (rare) Acute coronary thrombosis can cause angina if obstruction is partial or transient, but it usually causes acute myocardial infarction (MI). Because myocardial oxygen demand is determined mainly by heart rate, systolic wall tension, and contractility, narrowing of a coronary artery typically results in angina that occurs during exertion and is relieved by rest. 1/13 In addition to exertion, cardiac workload can be increased by disorders such as hypertension, aortic stenosis, aortic regurgitation, or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. In such cases, angina can result whether atherosclerosis is present or not. These disorders can also decrease relative myocardial perfusion because myocardial mass is increased (causing decreased diastolic flow). A decreased oxygen supply, as in severe anemia or hypoxia, can precipitate or aggravate angina. Pathophysiology of Angina Pectoris Angina may be Stable Unstable In stable angina, the relationship between workload or demand and ischemia is usually relatively predictable. Unstable angina is clinically worsening angina (eg, angina at rest or with increasing frequency and/or intensity of episodes). Atherosclerotic arterial narrowing is not entirely fixed; it varies with the normal fluctuations in arterial tone that occur in all people. Thus, more people have angina in the morning, when arterial tone is relatively high. Also, abnormal endothelial function may contribute to variations in arterial tone; eg, in endothelium damaged by atheromas, stress of a catecholamine surge causes vasoconstriction rather than dilation (normal response). As the myocardium becomes ischemic, coronary sinus blood pH falls, cellular potassium is lost, lactate accumulates, ECG abnormalities appear, and ventricular function (both systolic and diastolic) deteriorates. Left ventricular (LV) diastolic pressure usually increases during angina, sometimes
