Angina Pectoris - Cardiovascular Disorders - Merck Manual Professional Edition
KEYWORDS: angina, coronary, patients, stress, ecg, disease, symptoms, artery, myocardial, coronary artery, risk, lesions, used, angina pectoris, pectoris


blood pH falls, cellular potassium is lost, lactate accumulates, ECG abnormalities appear, and ventricular function (both systolic and diastolic) deteriorates. Left ventricular (LV) diastolic pressure usually increases during angina, sometimes inducing pulmonary congestion and dyspnea. The exact mechanism by which ischemia causes discomfort is unclear but may involve nerve stimulation by hypoxic metabolites. Symptoms and Signs of Angina Pectoris Angina may be a vague, barely troublesome ache or may rapidly become a severe, intense precordial crushing sensation. It is rarely described as "pain." Discomfort is most commonly felt beneath the sternum, although location varies. Discomfort may radiate to the left shoulder and down the inside of the left arm, even to the fingers; straight through to the back; into the throat, jaws, and teeth; and, occasionally, down the inside of the right arm. It may also be felt in the upper abdomen. The discomfort of angina is never above the ears or below the umbilicus. Atypical angina, with bloating, gas, abdominal distress, or burning or tenderness in the back, shoulders, arms or jaw, may occur in some patients and is more common among females. These patients often ascribe symptoms to indigestion; belching may even relieve the symptoms. Other patients have dyspnea due to the sharp, reversible increase in LV filling pressure that often 2/13 accompanies ischemia. Frequently, the patient’s description is imprecise, and whether the problem is angina, dyspnea, or both may be difficult to determine. Because ischemic symptoms require a minute or more to resolve, brief, fleeting sensations rarely represent angina. Between and even during attacks of angina, physical findings may be normal. However, during the attack, heart rate may increase modestly, blood pressure (BP) is often elevated, heart sounds become more distant, and the apical impulse is more diffuse. The second heart sound (S2) may become paradoxical because LV ejection is more prolonged during an ischemic attack. A fourth heart sound (S4) is common, and a third heart sound (S3) may develop. A mid or late systolic apical murmur, shrill or blowing—but not especially loud—may occur if ischemia causes localized papillary muscle dysfunction, causing mitral regurgitation. Angina pectoris is typically triggered by exertion or strong emotion, usually persists no more than a few minutes, and subsides with rest. Response to exertion is usually predictable, but in some patients, exercise that is tolerated one day may precipitate angina the next because of variations in arterial tone. Symptoms are exaggerated
