Angina Pectoris - Cardiovascular Disorders - Merck Manual Professional Edition
KEYWORDS: angina, coronary, patients, stress, ecg, disease, symptoms, artery, myocardial, coronary artery, risk, lesions, used, angina pectoris, pectoris


4/13 considered serious, especially when the angina is severe (ie, Canadian Cardiovascular Society class 3 or 4). Such changes are termed unstable angina and require prompt evaluation and treatment. Diagnosis of Angina Pectoris Typical symptoms Electrocardiography (ECG) Stress testing with ECG or imaging (using echocardiography, radionuclide imaging, positron emission tomography [PET], or MRI) CT angiography or CT fractional flow reserve (CT FFR) Coronary angiography for significant symptoms, positive stress test, or significant lesions noted on CT FFR. Diagnosis of angina is suspected if chest discomfort is typical and is precipitated by exertion and relieved by rest. Presence in the history of significant risk factors for coronary artery disease (CAD) adds weight to reported symptoms. Patients whose chest discomfort lasts > 20 minutes or occurs during rest or who have syncope or heart failure are evaluated for an acute coronary syndrome. Chest discomfort may also be caused by gastrointestinal disorders (eg, gastroesophageal reflux, esophageal spasm, indigestion, cholelithiasis), costochondritis, anxiety, panic attacks, hyperventilation, and other cardiac disorders (eg, aortic dissection, pericarditis, mitral valve prolapse, supraventricular tachycardia, atrial fibrillation), even when coronary blood flow is not compromised. ECG is always done. More specific tests include stress testing with ECG or with myocardial imaging (eg, echocardiography, radionuclide imaging, PET, MRI) and coronary angiography. Noninvasive tests are considered first. ECG If typical exertional symptoms are present, ECG is indicated. Because angina resolves quickly with rest, ECG rarely can be done during an attack except during stress testing. If done during an angina attack, ECG is likely to show reversible ischemic changes: T wave discordant to the QRS vector ST-segment depression (typically) ST-segment elevation Decreased R-wave height Intraventricular or bundle branch conduction disturbances Arrhythmia (usually ventricular extrasystoles) Between angina attacks, the ECG (and usually LV function) at rest is normal in about 30% of patients with a typical history of angina pectoris, even those with extensive 3-vessel disease. In the remaining 5/13 70%, the ECG shows evidence of previous infarction, hypertrophy, or nonspecific ST-segment and T- wave (ST-T) abnormalities. An abnormal resting ECG alone does not establish or refute the diagnosis. Stress testing Stress testing is needed to Confirm the diagnosis Evaluate disease severity Determine appropriate exercise levels for the patient Help predict prognosis If the clinical or working diagnosis is unstable angina, early stress testing is contraindicated. Exercise stress testing with ECG is done if a patient has a normal resting ECG and can exercise.
