Angina Pectoris - Cardiovascular Disorders - Merck Manual Professional Edition
KEYWORDS: angina, coronary, patients, stress, ecg, disease, symptoms, artery, myocardial, coronary artery, risk, lesions, used, angina pectoris, pectoris


clinical or working diagnosis is unstable angina, early stress testing is contraindicated. Exercise stress testing with ECG is done if a patient has a normal resting ECG and can exercise. In males with chest discomfort suggesting angina, stress ECG testing has a sensitivity of approximately 70% and a specificity of approximately 80% (1). These estimates are slightly lower in females. However, females are more likely than males to have an abnormal resting ECG when CAD is present (32% versus 23%). Although sensitivity is reasonably high, exercise ECG can miss severe CAD (even left main or 3- vessel disease). In patients with atypical symptoms, a negative stress ECG usually rules out angina pectoris and CAD; a positive result may or may not represent coronary ischemia and indicates the need for further testing. Stress testing with myocardial imaging is done when the resting ECG is abnormal because false- positive ST-segment shifts are common on the stress ECG. Exercise or pharmacologic stress (eg, with dobutamine or dipyridamole infusion) may be used. Imaging options include stress echocardiography, myocardial perfusion imaging with single-photon emission CT (SPECT) or PET, and stress MRI. The choice of imaging technique depends on institutional availability and expertise. Imaging tests can help assess LV function and response to stress; identify areas of ischemia, infarction, and viable tissue; and determine the site and extent of myocardium at risk. Stress echocardiography can also detect ischemia- induced mitral regurgitation. Coronary angiography Coronary angiography is the gold standard for diagnosing coronary artery disease but is not always necessary to confirm the diagnosis. It is indicated primarily to locate and assess severity of coronary artery lesions when revascularization (percutaneous coronary intervention [PCI] or coronary artery bypass grafting [CABG]) is being considered. Angiography may also be indicated when knowledge of coronary anatomy is necessary to advise about work or lifestyle needs (eg, discontinuing job or sports activities). Although angiographic findings do not directly show hemodynamic significance of coronary lesions, obstruction is assumed to be physiologically significant when the luminal diameter is reduced > 70%. Angina does not usually develop when the diameter reduction is < 70% unless spasm or thrombosis is present. Intravascular ultrasonography (IVUS) provides images of coronary artery structure. An ultrasound probe on the tip of a catheter is inserted in the coronary arteries during angiography. This test can provide more information about coronary anatomy than other tests; it is indicated when the nature of
