Angina Pectoris - Cardiovascular Disorders - Merck Manual Professional Edition
KEYWORDS: angina, coronary, patients, stress, ecg, disease, symptoms, artery, myocardial, coronary artery, risk, lesions, used, angina pectoris, pectoris


of a catheter is inserted in the coronary arteries during angiography. This test can provide more information about coronary anatomy than other tests; it is indicated when the nature of 6/13 lesions is unclear or when apparent disease severity does not match symptom severity. Used with PCI, it can help ensure optimal placement of stents. Guidewires with pressure or flow sensors can be used to estimate blood flow across stenoses. Blood flow is expressed as fractional flow reserve (FFR), which is the ratio of maximal flow through the stenotic area to normal maximal flow. These flow measurements are most useful when evaluating the need for angioplasty or CABG in patients with lesions of questionable severity (40 to 70% stenosis). An FFR of 1.0 is considered normal, while an FFR < 0.75 to 0.8 is associated with myocardial ischemia. Lesions with an FFR > 0.8 are less likely to benefit from stent placement. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is another imaging modality that can be used during coronary angiography that uses near-infrared light to provide high-resolution cross-sectional images of the coronary arteries, which are higher in resolution than with IVUS (2, 3). OCT has been used to help optimize placement and sizing of stents during PCI. However, its role in routine clinical care for patients with CAD who are undergoing angiography has not been fully established. Imaging the coronary arteries Noninvasive imaging studies done at rest can evaluate the coronary arteries. Electron beam CT can detect the amount of calcium present in coronary artery plaque. The calcium score is roughly proportional to the risk of subsequent coronary events. However, because calcium may be present in the absence of significant stenosis, the score does not correlate well with the need for PCI or CABG. Thus, the American Heart Association recommends that screening with electron beam CT should be done only for select groups of patients and is most valuable when combined with historical and clinical data to estimate risk of death or nonfatal myocardial infarction (4). These groups may include asymptomatic patients with an intermediate 10-year atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk estimate (10 to 20%) and symptomatic patients with equivocal stress test results. Electron beam CT is particularly useful in ruling out significant CAD in patients presenting to the emergency department with atypical symptoms, normal troponin levels, and a low probability of hemodynamically significant coronary artery disease. These patients may have noninvasive testing
