Angina Pectoris - Cardiovascular Disorders - Merck Manual Professional Edition
KEYWORDS: angina, coronary, patients, stress, ecg, disease, symptoms, artery, myocardial, coronary artery, risk, lesions, used, angina pectoris, pectoris


CAD in patients presenting to the emergency department with atypical symptoms, normal troponin levels, and a low probability of hemodynamically significant coronary artery disease. These patients may have noninvasive testing as outpatients. Multidetector row CT (MDRCT) coronary angiography can accurately identify coronary stenosis and has a number of advantages. The test is noninvasive, can exclude coronary stenosis with high accuracy, can establish stent or bypass graft patency, can show cardiac and coronary venous anatomy, and can assess calcified and noncalcified plaque burden. Estimation of the fractional flow reserve (FFR) across significant lesions and estimation of lesion-specific ischemia are also possible (5). However, radiation exposure is significant, and MDRCT must be used judiciously in patients with a heart rate of > 65 beats/minute, those with irregular heart beats, those with impaired kidney function, and pregnant females. Patients must also be able to hold their breath for 15 to 20 seconds, 3 to 4 times during the study. Other indications for MDRCT coronary angiography include Asymptomatic high-risk patients 7/13 Patients with atypical or typical angina who have inconclusive exercise stress test results, cannot undergo exercise stress testing, or need to undergo major noncardiac surgery Patients in whom invasive coronary angiography was unable to locate a major coronary artery or graft Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is invaluable in evaluating many cardiac and great vessel abnormalities. It may be used to evaluate CAD by several techniques, which enable direct visualization of coronary stenosis, assessment of flow in the coronary arteries, evaluation of myocardial perfusion and metabolism, evaluation of wall motion abnormalities during stress, and assessment of infarcted myocardium vs viable myocardium. Indications for cardiac MRI include evaluation of cardiac structure and function and assessment of myocardial viability. Cardiac MRI, specifically stress perfusion MRI and quantitative myocardial blood flow analysis, may also be indicated for diagnosis and risk assessment in patients with either known or suspected CAD. Treatment of Angina Pectoris Modification of risk factors (smoking, blood pressure, lipids) Antiplatelet agents (aspirin and sometimes clopidogrel, prasugrel, or ticagrelor) Beta-blockers Nitroglycerin and calcium channel blockers for symptom control Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and statins Revascularization if symptoms persist despite medical therapy 8/13 Reversible risk factors are modified as much as possible. People who smoke should stop smoking; 2 or more years after stopping smoking, risk of MI is reduced to that of people who never smoked. Hypertension (BP > 130/80 for patients with CAD) is
