Angina Pectoris - Cardiovascular Disorders - Merck Manual Professional Edition
KEYWORDS: angina, coronary, patients, stress, ecg, disease, symptoms, artery, myocardial, coronary artery, risk, lesions, used, angina pectoris, pectoris


stop smoking; 2 or more years after stopping smoking, risk of MI is reduced to that of people who never smoked. Hypertension (BP > 130/80 for patients with CAD) is treated diligently because even mild hypertension increases cardiac workload. Weight loss alone often reduces the severity of angina. Sometimes treatment of mild LV failure markedly lessens angina. However, digitalis occasionally intensifies angina, presumably because increased myocardial contractility increases oxygen demand, arterial tone is increased, or both. Aggressive reduction of total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (via diet plus statins) slows the progression of CAD, may cause some lesions to regress, and improves endothelial function and thus arterial response to stress. An exercise program emphasizing walking often improves the sense of well-being, reduces risk of acute ischemic events, and improves exercise tolerance. Coronary Artery Disease Myths PODCAST Medications for angina The main goals of angina treatment are to Relieve acute symptoms Prevent or reduce ischemia Prevent future ischemic events (See also table Medications for Coronary Artery Disease.) To relieve symptoms during an acute attack, sublingual nitroglycerin is the most effective drug. Nitroglycerin is a potent smooth-muscle relaxant and vasodilator. Its main sites of action are in the peripheral vascular tree, especially in the venous or capacitance system, and in coronary blood vessels. Even severely atherosclerotic vessels may dilate in areas without atheroma. Nitroglycerin lowers systolic BP and dilates systemic veins, thus reducing myocardial wall tension, a major determinant of myocardial oxygen need. Sublingual nitroglycerin is given for an acute attack or for prevention before exertion. Dramatic relief usually occurs within 1.5 to 3 minutes, is complete by about 5 minutes, and lasts up to 30 minutes. The dose may be repeated every 4 to 5 minutes up to 3 times if relief is incomplete. Patients should always carry nitroglycerin tablets or aerosol spray to use promptly at the onset of an angina attack. Patients should store tablets in a tightly sealed, light-resistant glass container, so that potency is not lost. Because the drug deteriorates quickly, small amounts should be obtained frequently. To prevent ischemia, several classes of medications are used: 9/13 Antiplatelet agents: All patients diagnosed with coronary artery disease or at high risk of developing CAD Beta-blockers: Most patients, unless contraindicated or not tolerated Long-acting nitrates: If needed Calcium channel blockers: If needed Antiplatelet agents inhibit platelet aggregation. Aspirin binds irreversibly to platelets and inhibits cyclooxygenase and platelet aggregation.
