Angina Pectoris - Cardiovascular Disorders - Merck Manual Professional Edition
KEYWORDS: angina, coronary, patients, stress, ecg, disease, symptoms, artery, myocardial, coronary artery, risk, lesions, used, angina pectoris, pectoris


unless contraindicated or not tolerated Long-acting nitrates: If needed Calcium channel blockers: If needed Antiplatelet agents inhibit platelet aggregation. Aspirin binds irreversibly to platelets and inhibits cyclooxygenase and platelet aggregation. Other antiplatelets (eg, clopidogrel, prasugrel, ticagrelor) block adenosine diphosphate–induced platelet aggregation. These agents can reduce the risk of ischemic events (MI, sudden death), but they are most effective when given with aspirin. Patients unable to tolerate one agent should receive the other alone. Beta-blockers limit symptoms and prevent infarction and sudden death better than other medications. Beta-blockers other than labetalol and carvedilol should not be used in patients with vasospastic angina because they may cause coronary vasospasm from unopposed alpha-receptor activity. Beta-blockers block sympathetic stimulation of the heart and reduce systolic BP, heart rate, contractility, and cardiac output, thus decreasing myocardial oxygen demand and increasing exercise tolerance. Beta-blockers also increase the threshold for ventricular fibrillation. Most patients tolerate these agents well. Many beta-blockers are available and effective. Dose is titrated upward as needed until limited by bradycardia or adverse effects. Patients who cannot tolerate beta-blockers are given a calcium channel blocker with negative chronotropic effects (eg, diltiazem, verapamil). Patients who are at risk of beta-blocker intolerance (eg, those with asthma) may be tried on a cardioselective beta-blocker (eg, bisoprolol) perhaps with pulmonary function testing before and after medication administration to detect drug- induced bronchospasm. Long-acting nitrates (oral or transdermal) are used if symptoms persist after the beta-blocker dose is maximized. If angina occurs at predictable times, a nitrate is given to cover those times. Oral nitrates include isosorbide dinitrate and isosorbide mononitrate (the active metabolite of the dinitrate). They are effective within 1 to 2 hours; their effect lasts 4 to 6 hours. Sustained-release formulations of isosorbide mononitrate appear to be effective throughout the day. For transdermal use, cutaneous nitroglycerin patches have largely replaced nitroglycerin ointments primarily because ointments are inconvenient and messy. Patches slowly release the drug for a prolonged effect; exercise capacity improves 4 hours after patch application and wanes in 18 to 24 hours. Nitrate tolerance may occur, especially when plasma concentrations are kept constant. Because risk of myocardial infarction is highest in early morning, an afternoon or early evening respite period from nitrates is reasonable unless a patient commonly has angina at that time. For nitroglycerin, an 8- to 10-hour respite period seems sufficient. Isosorbide dinitrate requires a 12-hour respite period to minimize the risk of
