Angina Pectoris - Cardiovascular Disorders - Merck Manual Professional Edition
KEYWORDS: angina, coronary, patients, stress, ecg, disease, symptoms, artery, myocardial, coronary artery, risk, lesions, used, angina pectoris, pectoris


a patient commonly has angina at that time. For nitroglycerin, an 8- to 10-hour respite period seems sufficient. Isosorbide dinitrate requires a 12-hour respite period to minimize the risk of tolerance. If given once a day, sustained-release isosorbide mononitrate does not appear to elicit tolerance. Calcium channel blockers may be used if symptoms persist despite use of nitrates or if nitrates are not tolerated. Calcium channel blockers are particularly useful if hypertension or coronary spasm is also present. Different types of calcium channel blockers have different effects. Dihydropyridines (eg, nifedipine, amlodipine, felodipine) have no chronotropic effects and vary substantially in their negative inotropic effects. Shorter-acting dihydropyridines may cause acute hypotension and reflex tachycardia 10/13 and are associated with increased mortality in patients with CAD; they should not be used alone to treat stable angina pectoris. Longer-acting formulations of dihydropyridines have fewer tachycardic effects; they are most commonly used with a beta-blocker. Among longer-acting dihydropyridines, amlodipine has the weakest negative inotropic effects; it may be used in patients with left ventricular systolic dysfunction. Diltiazem and verapamil, other types of calcium channel blockers, have negative chronotropic and inotropic effects. They can be used alone in patients with beta-blocker intolerance or asthma and normal left ventricular systolic function but may increase cardiovascular mortality in patients with left ventricular systolic dysfunction. Ranolazine is a sodium channel blocker that can be used to treat chronic angina. Because ranolazine may also prolong QTc, it is usually reserved for patients in whom symptoms persist despite optimal treatment with other antianginal agents. Dizziness, headache, constipation, and nausea are the most common adverse effects. Ivabradine is a sinus node inhibitor that inhibits inward sodium/potassium current in a certain gated channel (funny or "f" channel) in sinus node cells, thus slowing heart rate without decreasing contractility. It can be used for symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris in patients with normal sinus rhythm who cannot take beta-blockers or in combination with beta-blockers in patients whose angina is inadequately controlled by beta-blocker alone and whose heart rate is > 60 beats/minute. Revascularization Revascularization, either with PCI (eg, angioplasty and stent placement) or CABG, should be considered if angina persists despite pharmacologic therapy and worsens quality of life or if anatomic lesions (noted during angiography) put a patient at high risk of mortality. The choice between PCI and CABG depends on the extent and location of anatomic lesions, the experience of
