Angina Pectoris - Cardiovascular Disorders - Merck Manual Professional Edition
KEYWORDS: angina, coronary, patients, stress, ecg, disease, symptoms, artery, myocardial, coronary artery, risk, lesions, used, angina pectoris, pectoris


lesions (noted during angiography) put a patient at high risk of mortality. The choice between PCI and CABG depends on the extent and location of anatomic lesions, the experience of the operator and medical center, and, to some extent, patient preference (1). PCI is usually preferred for 1- or 2-vessel disease with suitable anatomic lesions and is increasingly being used for 3-vessel disease. As stent technology improves, PCI is being used for more complicated lesions (eg, lesions that are long or near bifurcation points). PCI can also be used for left main coronary artery disease (LMCA) in the appropriate clinical setting (2, 3, 4). CABG is very effective in selected patients with angina. CABG is superior to PCI in patients with diabetes and in patients with multivessel disease amenable to grafting (5, 6, 7). The ideal candidate has severe angina pectoris and localized disease, or diabetes mellitus. About 85% of patients have complete or dramatic symptom relief. Exercise stress testing shows positive correlation between graft patency and improved exercise tolerance, but exercise tolerance sometimes remains improved despite graft closure. CABG improves survival for patients with left main disease, those with 3-vessel disease and poor left ventricular function, and some patients with 2-vessel disease (8). However, for patients with mild or moderate angina (CCS class 1 or 2) or 3-vessel disease and good ventricular function, CABG appears to only marginally improve survival. Several studies show better long-term outcomes following CABG than with PCI for patients with diabetes and proximal left anterior descending disease (8). For patients with 1- vessel disease, outcomes with pharmacologic therapy, PCI, and CABG are similar; exceptions are left 11/13 main disease and proximal left anterior descending disease, for which revascularization appears advantageous. Prognosis for Angina Pectoris The main adverse outcomes of angina pectoris are unstable angina, myocardial infarction, and sudden death due to arrhythmias. Annual mortality rate is approximately 1.4% in patients with angina, no history of MI, a normal resting ECG, and normal BP (1). However, females with CAD tend to have a worse prognosis. Mortality rate is higher when systolic hypertension is present, than when the ECG is abnormal, and is even higher when both are present. Type 2 diabetes also increases the mortality rate for each scenario. Prognosis worsens with increasing age, increasingly severe anginal symptoms, presence of anatomic lesions, and poor ventricular function (2). Lesions in the left main coronary artery or proximal
