Chapter 16: Diabetes in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: diabetes, adults, years, age, older, age years, older adults, adults age, risk, study, health, care, adults diabetes, control, data


In the United States, the costs of diabetes in older adults are largely borne by Medicare, the federal universal health insurance program for older adults. In 2012, the direct medical costs of diabetes care for older adults were estimated to be $104 billion per year largely due to hospital inpatient stays. The additional burden on society of informal caregiving is also significant. The costs of diabetes care in older adults are expected to triple from 2009 to 2034. Future approaches to diabetes care in older adults will likely be guided by recommen­ dations from the American Diabetes Association to provide highly individualized care. INTRODUCTION The majority of older adults with diabetes have type 2 diabetes due to a combina­ tion of increased insulin resistance and impaired insulin secretion (1). In a study of adults age ≥60 years with diabetes from the Kaiser Permanente Northern California Diabetes Registry (N=6,317) in 2005, 96% had type 2 diabetes (2). Insulin resistance associated with advancing age is believed to be due to a combination of adiposity, sarcopenia (decreased muscle mass), and physical inactivity (3). Additionally, advancing age is associated with declines in pancreatic islet function and islet prolif­ erative capacity, which may impair insulin secretion (4,5,6,7). Increasing insulin resis­ tance is likely a more predominant driver of diabetes than impaired insulin secretion in older adults compared to younger adults. The clinical course of older adults with diabetes is often complicated by concom­ itant chronic diseases (e.g., hypertension) that can interact with their diabetes and accelerate the progression of diabetic complications (e.g., retinopathy). DATA SOURCES AND LIMITATIONS The National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) and the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) were used for original analyses conducted for Diabetes in America, 3rd edition, which are presented in the figures, tables, and appendices of this chapter except where noted. These data sets provide cross-sectional snapshots of the nation’s health. The NHIS relies on self-report regarding the presence of conditions, and thus, undiagnosed conditions are not available from this data source. For the NHANES, some undiagnosed condi­ tions are available through the collection of biomarkers. Self-reported diabetes includes both type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes. For both surveys, the geriatric population is defined as adults age ≥65 years. In some instances, the standard errors for both the NHIS and NHANES estimates were high, in which case the size of relative standard errors was noted in
