Chapter 16: Diabetes in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: diabetes, adults, years, age, older, age years, older adults, adults age, risk, study, health, care, adults diabetes, control, data


sarcopenia, as well as age-associated declines in strength, endur­ ance, balance, walking performance, and activity (33). Older adults with diabetes have a greater risk of sarcopenia (34) and frailty (33) than those without diabetes. A study of community-dwelling older women found that diabetes was associated with an increased risk of being prefrail and frail (35). Unintentional weight loss in older adults is associated with increased risk of morbidity and mortality (36). The association between weight loss and mortality is more pronounced in the diabetic population. In the Rancho Bernardo Study of >1,000 older men and women from 1972–1987, weight loss of ≥10 pounds over a 10-year period was associated with 3.66 and 1.65 times greater risks of death in men and women with diabetes compared to 1.38 and 1.76 times greater risks of death among men and women without diabetes, respectively (37). Polypharmacy Polypharmacy is a particularly chal­ lenging aspect of caring for older adults with diabetes, since they often require multiple medications to optimally manage their diabetes and associated condi­ tions. Although multiple medications are unavoidable in some patients to achieve glycemic control and to adequately control cardiovascular risk factors, a focus on appropriate prescribing, interventions to increase regimen adherence, and assess­ ment of financial feasibility are crucial to successful care in this population. On average, patients with diabetes are prescribed four diabetes-related medica­ tions (38). Older adults with diabetes are at greater risk for drug side effects and drug-drug interactions. For example, poly­ pharmacy is associated with an increased Diabetes in Older Adults 16–11 risk of falls in the geriatric diabetes popu­ lation, ranging from 1.22 to 1.59 times increased risk, compared to when patients are prescribed zero or one medication (39). Chapter 39 Medication Use and Self- Care Practices in Persons With Diabetes provides more information on the use of medications to treat diabetes and associ­ ated complications. COMORBID DISEASES Diabetes frequently co-occurs with other medical conditions, including those that represent complications of the disease. According to U.S. Medicare data, in 1999, nearly 60% of older adults with diabetes had at least one comorbid chronic disease (40,41), and as many as 40% had four or more comorbid diseases (42). A study using data from the NHANES 1999–2004 described the comorbid prevalence of five major chronic diseases (arthritis, coronary heart disease, chronic lower respiratory tract disease, cerebrovascular accident, and diabetes) in older men and women (Table 16.12) (43,44).
