Chapter 16: Diabetes in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: diabetes, adults, years, age, older, age years, older adults, adults age, risk, study, health, care, adults diabetes, control, data


2009–2010 p<0.01). The relationships between diabetes and disability may possibly be mediated by neuropathy and peripheral vascular disease (53). Functional disability may occur with the same frequency between older and middle-aged adults with diabetes (54). Functional impairment varies greatly by type of activity. The percentage reporting difficulties varies widely depending on the activity; for example, only 5.2% reported difficulty relaxing, while 48.1% reported difficulty stooping. Functional impairment also varies by age group, with the oldest patients having the highest prevalence of impairment. Nearly one-third (32.7%) of adults with diabetes age ≥80 years had difficulty with one IADL, and over three-quarters (76.5%) had difficulty with at least one functional status activity (Table 16.14). Up to 85% of the excess odds of disability associ­ ated with diabetes have been attributed to comorbidities, especially CVD and obesity, and poor glycemic control (A1c ≥8.0% [≥64 mmol/mol]). The associa­ tions of diabetes with disability in the geriatric diabetes population are fully attenuated by adjustment for comorbidi­ ties, A1c, and diabetes duration (55). PREVENTING DIABETES In addition to the high rates of diabetes in the older adult population, nearly half of the geriatric population met criteria for prediabetes (Table 16.3). Because of the size of the older adult prediabetic popu­ lation, the importance of preventing the progression of diabetes in the older adult population is paramount. The Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) is the largest trial that has evaluated the role of lifestyle interventions and medications in preventing diabetes. The overall study enrolled >3,000 adults, about 20% of whom were age ≥60 years (56). The mean age of adults age ≥60 years in the DPP was 66.4 years and ranged from 60 to 85 years. The study population had good representation among older adults in their mid-sixties but far less participation Diabetes in Older Adults 16–13 from adults age ≥70 years. This study found reductions in the incidence of diabetes with the lifestyle intervention and metformin treatment after 2.8 years of follow-up. The reductions with the lifestyle intervention were largest for adults age ≥60 years compared to adults age 25–44 years and 45–59 years (71% vs. 48% and 59%, respectively). Interestingly, the oldest adults did not experience reduc­ tions in diabetes incidence with metformin, while younger subjects did (57). Ten-year follow-up data from the DPP provided evidence for the persistent benefits of the lifestyle intervention compared to drug therapy in older adults (58), as well as secondary
