Chapter 16: Diabetes in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: diabetes, adults, years, age, older, age years, older adults, adults age, risk, study, health, care, adults diabetes, control, data


did (57). Ten-year follow-up data from the DPP provided evidence for the persistent benefits of the lifestyle intervention compared to drug therapy in older adults (58), as well as secondary benefits of the lifestyle inter­ vention, including reductions in urinary incontinence (59) and improvements in quality of life (60). The reader may obtain additional informa­ tion on this topic in Chapter 38 Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes. PREVENTING COMPLICATIONS OF DIABETES PREVENTING CARDIOVASCULAR AND MICROVASCULAR COMPLICATIONS Glucose Control In the past, clinical trials of diabetes therapies, such as the United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS), systematically excluded adults age >65 years. Subsequent major clinical trials, such as ACCORD (Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes), ADVANCE (Action in Diabetes and Vascular Disease: Preterax and Diamicron MR Controlled Evaluation), and VADT (Veterans Affairs Diabetes Trial), included adults age ≥65 years but did not include significant numbers of participants age >75 years. In addition, these clinical trials excluded older adults with significant func­ tional impairment or comorbid illnesses. The UKPDS provided valuable evidence for the benefits of glycemic control on reducing the risk of microvascular compli­ cations; however, the study enrolled middle-aged subjects with newly diag­ nosed type 2 diabetes and excluded those age >65 years at the time of enrollment (47,61). During the post-trial follow-up, as participants entered the geriatric age range, the benefits of intensive glycemic control on microvascular complications persisted, and benefits for reducing mortality and myocardial infarctions emerged (62). Following the UKPDS, the ACCORD, ADVANCE, and VADT trials studied glycemic control for preventing CVD events in high-risk middle-aged and older adults with type 2 diabetes. The ACCORD trial enrolled subjects with diabetes age 40–79 years and randomly assigned them to intensive glucose control therapy (A1c <6.0% [<42 mmol/mol]) or standard therapy (A1c 7.0%–7.9% [53–63 mmol/ mol]) (63). The mean age was 62 years, and median duration of diabetes was 10 years. The intensive therapy group achieved a median A1c level of 6.4% (46 mmol/mol), and the standard therapy group achieved a median A1c level of 7.5% (58 mmol/mol). The trial was ended after a mean follow-up of 3.5 years, because the intensive therapy group had a higher mortality rate than the standard therapy group (hazard ratio [HR] 1.22, 95% CI 1.01–1.46). Subjects age ≥65 years had no higher risk of cardiovascular events or overall mortality than subjects age <65 years. In prespecified subgroup analyses, increased age was significantly
