Chapter 16: Diabetes in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: diabetes, adults, years, age, older, age years, older adults, adults age, risk, study, health, care, adults diabetes, control, data


95% CI 1.01–1.46). Subjects age ≥65 years had no higher risk of cardiovascular events or overall mortality than subjects age <65 years. In prespecified subgroup analyses, increased age was significantly associated with a higher risk of severe hypoglycemia (64). In contrast to the ACCORD trial, the ADVANCE study did not show excessive deaths due to intensive glycemic control and showed some reduction in micro­ vascular disease from intensive glucose control (65). ADVANCE included partici­ pants with type 2 diabetes age ≥55 years and randomized them to intensive glucose control (A1c <6.5%) or standard glucose control. Participants were required to have a history of major macrovascular or micro­ vascular disease or at least one risk factor for vascular disease. Their mean age was 66 years, and median duration of diabetes was about 8 years. The intensive therapy and standard therapy groups in ADVANCE achieved mean A1c levels of 6.5% and 7.3% (56 mmol/mol), respectively, at 5 years of follow-up. The intensive glucose therapy group had a 10% relative reduc­ tion in the combined outcome of major macrovascular and microvascular events, mostly due to a 21% relative reduction in nephropathy. In prespecified subgroup analyses, no difference in major macro­ vascular and microvascular events was observed between participants age <65 years and those age ≥65 years. While the ADVANCE study suggested benefit of intensive glucose control on microvascular events, the VADT showed no benefits from intensive glucose control. The VADT randomized 1,791 veterans to intensive glucose control (to achieve an absolute reduction of 1.5% in A1c) versus standard control (66). Participants’ mean age was 60.4 years and mean duration of diabetes was 11.5 years; 40% had a history of CVD. The intensive therapy group achieved a median A1c of 6.9% (52 mmol/mol), and the standard therapy group achieved a median A1c of 8.4% (68 mmol/mol). The VADT found no significant differences in major cardiovascular events, death, or microvascular events between the two groups after a median follow-up of 5.6 years. In post hoc analyses, adults with diabetes duration >20 years had an increased risk for cardiovascular events with intensive therapy (67). Since the geriatric diabetic population has been largely excluded from trials, data from epidemiologic studies on the relationship between glycemic control and complications are relevant. In adults age ≥50 years with type 2 diabetes from the U.K. General Practice Research Database, both low and high A1c values were asso­ ciated with increased
