Chapter 16: Diabetes in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: diabetes, adults, years, age, older, age years, older adults, adults age, risk, study, health, care, adults diabetes, control, data


significant impact on the mortality and quality of life in older adults with diabetes and is associated with significant societal health care costs (85,86,87). Depression is associated with poor diabetes self-care, including deficits in healthy eating, exercise, and medication adherence (88,89,90). Additionally, depression is associated with an increased risk of poor glycemic control (91), dementia (92,93), and mortality (94,95,96) in diabetic patients. Because of the prevalence of depression in older adults with diabetes (87,97) and the great burden of depression (2), routine screening for depression should be considered in older adults (98). Since depression can present atypically in older adults, using geriatric-specific screening tools, like the Geriatric Depression Scale, may enhance screening and allow earlier identification and subsequent treatment of depression (99). Dementia Dementia or cognitive impairment is a sentinel condition for diabetes because it affects background mortality and changes the extent to which patients are able to care for themselves (100), as discussed in Chapter 24. While dementia poses a significant challenge to self-management, evidence for how to prevent dementia is scant. A major study on diabetes and dementia, the ACCORD-MIND trial, found no benefits from intensive glucose control or blood pressure control on improving cognitive outcomes compared to standard therapy (101). However, the harms from cognitive dysfunction in older adults with diabetes are well known. Cognitive impairment is associated with poor glycemic control (102). The relationship between hypo­ glycemia and cognitive dysfunction may be bidirectional, with cognitive impairment increasing the risk for future hypoglycemia (103) and past severe hypoglycemia increasing the incidence of dementia (104,105). Additionally, the development of dementia is significantly associated with the presence of diabetes (92,93). A high index of suspicion for cognitive impairment should be present when evaluating older adults with diabetes. Worsening cognitive function should be suspected in older patients who develop nonadherence, frequent hypoglycemia, or sudden deterioration of glycemic control. Screening for cognitive dysfunction with practical clinical tools, such as the Mini-cog, is recommended for all older patients with diabetes (106). Polypharmacy The older adult diabetes population is at high risk for polypharmacy and has increased susceptibility to the side effects of medications. For example, the risk of hypoglycemia among adults age ≥65 years using insulin or sulfonylurea was highest among adults age >80 years (rela­ tive risk 1.8, 95% CI 1.4–2.3) compared with adults age 65–70 years (107). However, comprehensive diabetes care is strongly tied to increasing prescription medications, as diabetes
