Chapter 16: Diabetes in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: diabetes, adults, years, age, older, age years, older adults, adults age, risk, study, health, care, adults diabetes, control, data


age >80 years (rela­ tive risk 1.8, 95% CI 1.4–2.3) compared with adults age 65–70 years (107). However, comprehensive diabetes care is strongly tied to increasing prescription medications, as diabetes and its complica­ tions progress over time (108). Thus, the trade-offs between the potential benefits and risks of adding new diabetes-related and other medications for older patients with diabetes should be carefully weighed. Intensive Control in Older Adults With Functional Impairment and/or Comorbidity The geriatric diabetes population is at greater risk for death due to diabetes and comorbidity, and this increased risk affects the potential benefit of intensive glycemic control. A decision analytic study compared the projected health benefits of moderate glucose control (A1c <7.9%) and intensive glucose control (A1c <7.0%) for hypothetical older patients of varying ages, durations of diabetes, and risks of mortality (109). Risk for mortality in 4 years was estimated based on functional impairment and comorbid illness (110). This study found that the estimated bene­ fits of glucose control steadily declined as the 4-year mortality risk increased, highlighting the importance of competing mortality and life expectancy estimates in the care of older patients with diabetes. An observational study of 3,074 patients with type 2 diabetes confirmed these results (111). These patients were cate­ gorized into high and low-to-moderate comorbidity groups at baseline and observed for 5 years. During follow-up, only patients in the low-to-moderate comorbidity group with baseline A1c levels ≤6.5% had a lower 5-year incidence of cardiovascular events (adjusted HR 0.60, 95% CI 0.42–0.85, p=0.005), while patients in the high comorbidity group experienced no significant benefit from A1c levels ≤6.5%. Similarly, only the low-to-moderate comorbidity group had fewer cardiovascular events after attaining an A1c level ≤7.0% (adjusted HR 0.61, 95% CI 0.44–0.83, p=0.001). These studies suggest that moderate glucose targets may be reasonable in older patients with 16–16 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition diabetes and limited life expectancy due to functional impairment and comorbidity. HYPOGLYCEMIA Avoidance of hypoglycemia should be an important consideration before choosing therapeutic agents and establishing glycemic goals in older adults. Older frail adults are at high risk for severe sequelae of hypoglycemia, even if the hypoglycemia is mild (104,112,113). Older adults have more neuroglycopenic manifestations of hypoglycemia (dizziness, weakness, delirium, confusion) rather than adren­ ergic manifestations (tremors, sweating) typical of middle-aged adults. Despite the clinical importance of hypo­ glycemia in older adults, several studies suggest that many older adults may be
