Chapter 16: Diabetes in Older Adults
KEYWORDS: diabetes, adults, years, age, older, age years, older adults, adults age, risk, study, health, care, adults diabetes, control, data


in 2010 (117). This guideline highlighted the frequency of comorbid conditions in patients with diabetes and recommended stratification of glycemic goals based on comorbidity and life expectancy. The European Diabetes Working Party for Older People in 2011 published guidelines for treating people with diabetes age >70 years (118). These guidelines recommended that treat­ ments be based on the benefit/risk ratio of the intervention for the individual patient with consideration for hypo­ glycemia, self-management, cognitive status, and life expectancy. In 2012, the American Diabetes Association released a consensus report on the care of older patients with diabetes (119), which summarized diabetes epidemiology and pathogenesis in older adults, evidence for prevention and treating comorbidities, guidelines for older adults, individualizing treatment regimens, consensus recom­ mendations for treatment, and how gaps in evidence can be filled. A consistent theme of these guidelines is the recommendation to pursue an individualized approach to diabetes care, focusing on clinical and functional hetero­ geneity and comorbidities and weighing the expected timeframe of benefit of inter­ ventions against life expectancy. ECONOMIC CONSEQUENCES OF DIABETES MEDICARE In the United States, the vast majority of adults age ≥65 years have universal health insurance through the Medicare program, which was established by the federal government in 1965. The Medicare program has two major compo­ nents: (1) the hospital benefit under Part A and (2) outpatient medical services under Part B. Patients have the option of an open-network single payer health care plan (traditional Medicare) or a network plan (Medicare Advantage or Medicare Part C) where the federal government pays for private health coverage. Lastly, Part D is an outpatient prescription drug plan. In 1972, the Social Security Amendments of 1972 extended Medicare coverage to individuals with end-stage renal disease in order to provide coverage for outpatient dialysis. In 1997, the Balanced Budget Act provided coverage for blood glucose monitors and testing strips, in addition to outpatient diabetes self-management training (120). COSTS OF DIABETES Diabetes accounts for an estimated 32% of all Medicare spending. The total national cost of diabetes in the United States was estimated at $245 billion in 2012 based on national public and private data sources (121), as described in depth in Chapter 40. Government insurance, including Medicare, Medicaid, and the military, covered an estimated 62.4% of diabetes care in 2012. Of this total, an estimated $104 billion was due to direct medical costs in adults age ≥65 years. Approximately
