Use of the Historial Weight Trajectory to Guide an Obesity Focused Patient Encounter
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, pubmed, gain, body, weight gain, patient, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, history, bmi


ABSTRACT Obesity is a chronic, complex, and challenging disease to address by clinicians. Thus, it is crucial for practitioners to obtain a thorough weight history from patients to identify potential triggers that influence weight gain trajectories and their relationships to development of disease co-morbidity and mortality. Obtaining a weight history from a patient can be approached systematically, similar to key elements of a history of present illness, as we will discuss. Furthermore, patient-drawn life-events graph or readily available electronic health records graphs can elucidate in visual context pertinent contributing factors to the etiology of obesity. Often, biological, social, behavioral, and psychological causes of weight gain can be elicited through the use of weight histories. In this chapter, we will also explore life-events graph more in detail as they can provide remarkable value to the overall assessment and plan of care (whether lifestyle intervention alone or in combination with pharmacological, surgical, or combination thereof) in the patient with obesity. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Obesity adversely affects all organ systems in the human body and causes and/or exacerbates numerous medical disorders such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes, kidney disease, and some forms of cancer. Today, the average adult weight has increased ( 1 ), disproportionately skewing rightward ( 2 ) in the body mass index (BMI) distribution curve ( Figure 1 ) with a higher percentage of the population meeting criteria for Class 1 obesity or greater (≥30 kg/m 2 ) and more disease severity (Class 2 obesity or higher; BMI ≥35 kg/m 2 ). In addition, the average waist circumference has increased across US adults since 1999 ( 3 ). Increases in abdominal girth (≥35 inches for women; ≥40 inches for men), commonly called central or abdominal obesity, is a surrogate for visceral adiposity, which increases risk for the metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes, inflammation, and cardiovascular disease ( 4 ). Figure 1. Changing shape of BMI distribution curve over time ( 2 ). Obesity is defined as a pathologically elevated and defended body fat mass due to dysregulation of the pathways that determine energy balance. The complexity in these pathways, including biological, genetic, developmental, epigenetic, environmental, or behavioral factors, lead to substantial variability in the pathophysiological expression of both amount of unwanted weight gain experienced by an individual as well as the number and severity of co-morbid
