Use of the Historial Weight Trajectory to Guide an Obesity Focused Patient Encounter
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, pubmed, gain, body, weight gain, patient, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, history, bmi


behavioral factors, lead to substantial variability in the pathophysiological expression of both amount of unwanted weight gain experienced by an individual as well as the number and severity of co-morbid conditions (diabetes, hypertension, etc.) ( 5 - 9 ). In addition to the variability in phenotypic presentation of weight gain and fat distribution in individuals with obesity ( 10 ), weight loss responses to lifestyle, pharmacological, and surgical treatment are also heterogeneous. Although most patients elicit an average response to a distinct type of treatment, some patients will have an above average response to the intervention, while responses in others may be sub-optimal, or they may not respond at all. Thus, a thorough weight history in combination with a clinically applied and integrated understanding of this disease, its root causes, and etiology can help guide successful treatment. THE OVERWEIGHT AND OBESITY-FOCUSED ENCOUNTER History, Physical, and Laboratory Testing of the Patient who is Overweight or Has Obesity The evaluation and diagnosis of a patient with obesity includes the taking of a standard medical history with special attention to identification of potentially weight-promoting medications and obesity-related complications ( 11 ), a medical examination that characterizes the amount and distribution of weight as well as possible signs of secondary causes of unwanted weight gain, and review of relevant clinical laboratory tests. In addition, the history of present illness includes generation of a chronological weight graph (ideally using the electronic health record (EHR)) that incorporates a review of life events, lifestyle patterns and preferences, and previous successful and unsuccessful interventions. The physical exam should note the distribution of weight (especially truncal and abdominal) and areas of conspicuous absence of fat characteristic of lipodystrophies ( 12 ), both of which herald increased cardiometabolic risk, as well as areas of disproportionate accumulation of excess fat, such as lipomas and lipedema ( 13 ); documentation of cardiac status looking specifically for evidence of heart failure; abdominal palpation for hepatomegaly; identification of inflammatory or degenerative joint issues that may limit activity; and skin/neurological examinations to look for evidence of hypercortisolism (wide striae, proximal muscle weakness), hypothyroidism, hirsutism/acne that might indicate polycystic ovarian syndrome, and acanthosis nigricans over extensor surfaces/neck/axilla. Laboratory evaluation at the initial visit should include a comprehensive metabolic panel, complete blood count, assessment of thyroid status, and cardiometabolic risk assessment including a lipid panel and A1c ( Table 1 ). Table 1. Key Elements of an
