Use of the Historial Weight Trajectory to Guide an Obesity Focused Patient Encounter
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, pubmed, gain, body, weight gain, patient, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, history, bmi


comprehensive metabolic panel, complete blood count, assessment of thyroid status, and cardiometabolic risk assessment including a lipid panel and A1c ( Table 1 ). Table 1. Key Elements of an Obesity-Focused Encounter View in own window History of Present Illness (HPI) Weight History and timing to life events, developmental milestones (including puberty, pregnancy, menopause), medication use, and injuries, surgeries, or illnesses. Past Medical and Surgical History (PMH, PSH) In addition to a general review, identification of obesity-associated comorbidities and procedures: gastroesophageal reflux, hypertension, HFpEF, asthma, OSA, OA, type 2 diabetes, CAD and PVD, menstrual irregularities/infertility/PCOS, bariatric surgery. Social History (SH) Lifestyle, health practices, nutrition, physical activity, sleep, smoking and recreational drug use, stressors, occupation, marital status. Family History Parental obesity, cultural patterns, family eating patterns. Medications Weight-gain promoting medications. Physical Exam BMI, waist circumference Distribution of body fat, lipodystrophy, lipedema, hypercortisolism, acanthosis. Laboratory and Diagnostic Testing Risk assessment: comprehensive metabolic panel, complete blood count, 25-OH vitamin D, C-reactive protein, TSH, hemoglobin A1c, and lipid panel. When indicated, screening for co-morbid conditions such as obstructive sleep apnea, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, and PCOS. Assessment and Plan Based on risks, complications, comorbid conditions and barriers to care. Identification of obesity-related co-morbidities during the patient encounter and lab testing may necessitate referral for further evaluation, such as non-invasive imaging or liver biopsy to establish non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, a sleep study to diagnose obstructive sleep apnea, or X-rays to assess osteoarthritis in weight-bearing joints. Patients reporting low-level chest discomfort, dyspnea on exertion, or orthopnea should be considered for referral to a cardiologist for the possibility of cardiac ischemia or heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF), an increasingly recognized disorder of severe obesity. Findings of weight-related medical conditions during the initial visit may prompt increased motivational drive toward behavioral and lifestyle changes as well as acceptance of recommendations to use anti-obesity medications or for referral for bariatric surgery. CLINICAL IMPORTANCE OF A WEIGHT TRAJECTORY During the weight-focused portion of the history of present illness, it is important to document changes in the health that led the patient to seek medical attention over time and establish a clear and chronological description of the sequential events, including weight gain or loss, leading up to the current visit ( 14 - 16 ) ( Table 2 ). Table 2. Key Elements of an Obesity-Focused History of Present Illness ( 16 ) View in own window Onset When did your weight
