Use of the Historial Weight Trajectory to Guide an Obesity Focused Patient Encounter
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, pubmed, gain, body, weight gain, patient, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, history, bmi


- 16 ) ( Table 2 ). Table 2. Key Elements of an Obesity-Focused History of Present Illness ( 16 ) View in own window Onset When did your weight gain start. What did you weigh in early, late childhood, puberty, by decade as adult? Nadir and Maximum Weight What were your lifetime lowest and highest weights (excluding pregnancy)? How did you achieve your lowest weight? Precipitating Factors What events in your life coincided with unwanted weight gain (puberty, pregnancy, menopause, starting or stopping smoking, starting a new medication such as insulin or steroids)? Quality of Life What is hardest to do at your current weight? When did you feel your best? Weight Loss Efforts What did you try that helped you lose weight? What interventions were successful for you? Setting In what context were you successful at your previous efforts? Why do you think those efforts worked? Temporal Patterns What is the nature of your weight loss and weight gain over time? Do you ever weight cycle (yo-yo) or is it gradual or rapid over time? Multiple studies have demonstrated that an early childhood upward weight trajectory can be predictive of future development of obesity, obesity-related comorbid conditions, disability, and mortality ( 17 - 21 ). A lifetime maximum BMI (compared to a single baseline BMI measurement) in the overweight or obesity categories, coupled with 16 or more years of weight history, is associated with an increased all-cause and cause-specific mortality including cardiovascular disease and coronary heart disease ( 22 ). As will be discussed below, temporal patterns of weight gain that raise concerns in a weight history might include: (a) an early adiposity rebound during infancy or early childhood years ( 23 , 24 ), (b) adolescent weight gain that correlates with progression to severe adult obesity and related medical conditions ( 25 ), and (c) excessive weight gain during pregnancy or menopause. Other temporal associations with weight gain often not appreciated by patients and providers include those that accompany smoking cessation ( 26 ), resolution of hyperthyroidism ( 27 ), initiation of medications for depression, anxiety, and pain management (e.g., beta-blockers, amitriptyline, gabapentin, others) ( 11 ), and normal age-associated sarcopenia where skeletal muscle mass gradually declines and visceral fat preferentially increases ( 28 ). Early Growth, Childhood, and Puberty The timing of excessive body weight gain during one’s life is a predictor of future disease severity.
