Use of the Historial Weight Trajectory to Guide an Obesity Focused Patient Encounter
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, pubmed, gain, body, weight gain, patient, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, history, bmi


and visceral fat preferentially increases ( 28 ). Early Growth, Childhood, and Puberty The timing of excessive body weight gain during one’s life is a predictor of future disease severity. Early and rapid weight gain during youth is predictive of co-morbidities later in life and these patients often experience a more steeply inclined weight trajectory into later stages of adulthood ( 19 ). During the ages of 2-6 years, children normally have lower adiposity and are usually at their nadir weight before “rebounding” back up during normal growth ( Figure 2 , blue line). When adiposity rebound occurs at less than one year of age as visualized on the BMI for-age and gender appropriate growth charts, typically expressed in percentile for age and sex, syndromic, congenital, and monogenic causes of obesity should be considered. Such a very early clinical weight gain history should trigger consideration for genetic testing of genes in the canonical melanocortin pathways ( LEPR, PCSK1, POMC, MC4R ), which range in incidence from very rare to being implicated in up to 1-6% of early-onset severe obesity ( 23 , 29 , 30 ). Genetic screening for obesity genes can also be triggered by rapid weight gain from early infancy, development of severe obesity (> 97 th BMI percentile) at early ages (especially before the age of 10), persistent food-seeking behaviors indicative of poor appetite control, parental consanguinity, and tall stature/increased growth velocity ( 31 ). A weight trajectory following an early adiposity rebound (> 1 year age, ≤ 6 years of age, Figure 2 , red dotted line) is a strong risk factor for obesity in adolescence and beyond ( 24 , 32 ) and should be can be an indication for early family-oriented lifestyle interventions. Figure 2. BMI Percentile Growth Chart. Weight gain leading to obesity during the adolescent development period correlates highly with progression to severe adult obesity. Development of adolescent obesity can affect timing of puberty (early vs. delayed) when body composition and fat distribution are rapidly changing ( 33 ). During normal pubertal development and growth, males acquire greater fat-free and skeletal muscle mass, whereas females attain higher fat mass ( 34 ). Figure 3. Schematic depiction of abnormal BMI percentile growth curves for adolescents with severe obesity. Greater than or equal to the 95 th BMI percentile corresponds to cut-offs for pediatric obesity. Other important considerations that determine therapeutic criteria are if
