Use of the Historial Weight Trajectory to Guide an Obesity Focused Patient Encounter
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, pubmed, gain, body, weight gain, patient, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, history, bmi


for adolescents with severe obesity. Greater than or equal to the 95 th BMI percentile corresponds to cut-offs for pediatric obesity. Other important considerations that determine therapeutic criteria are if the adolescent’s trajectory falls at or above 120 th % and 140 th % the 95 th BMI percentile for age/gender (see Table 3 ). Most patients who experience unwanted, excess weight gain in childhood and adolescence develop obesity-related complications that, when severe, often require pharmacologic intervention and/or bariatric surgery. Early identification and treatment are recommended as for prevention ( 35 ). Currently there are six FDA-approved anti-obesity medications available for chronic weight management (orlistat, phentermine/topiramate, liraglutide 3.0 mg, semaglutide 2.4 mg, and setmelanotide). Phentermine/topiramate and orlistat are approved for >12 years respectively, phentermine alone is approved for age >16 years, and setmelanotide can be used as early as 6 years of age ( 35 , 36 ). Use of anti-obesity pharmacotherapy in adolescents with severe obesity (>95 th BMI percentile plus the presence of obesity-related comorbidity or >120 th of 95 th BMI percentile) is now considered standard of care for pediatric obesity treatment ( 35 ). Furthermore, vertical sleeve gastrectomy and Roux-en-Y metabolic and bariatric surgery procedures are available options for adolescents with severe obesity (>120 th of 95 th BMI percentile plus obesity-related comorbidity or BMI >140 th of 95 th BMI percentile) ( 37 ). Table 3. Available therapeutic options based on BMI percentile cut offs of weight trajectory in adolescent patients with severe obesity ( 38 ). View in own window BMI percentile as per CDC growth chart >95 th BMI percentile ≥120 th of the 95 th BMI percentile ≥140 th of the 95 th BMI percentile Intensive lifestyle intervention √ √ √ Anti-obesity medication With comorbidity √ √ √ Adolescent bariatric metabolic surgery With comorbidity √ √ Pregnancy, Breast Feeding, and Menopausal Transition Pregnancy and menopause can be a time when women’s weights and body composition may become permanently altered under the influence of dramatic shifts in sex steroid levels. Excessive weight gain during pregnancy can result in epigenetic changes in the developing fetus leading to adult-onset chronic disease such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and obesity ( 39 - 45 ) . Furthermore, maternal obesity and excessive gestational weight gain have been linked to maternal-fetal complications such as increased risk of C-sections, preeclampsia, shoulder dystocia, and macrosomia in the infant ( 46 -
