Use of the Historial Weight Trajectory to Guide an Obesity Focused Patient Encounter
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, pubmed, gain, body, weight gain, patient, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, history, bmi


maternal obesity and excessive gestational weight gain have been linked to maternal-fetal complications such as increased risk of C-sections, preeclampsia, shoulder dystocia, and macrosomia in the infant ( 46 - 48 ). Data from large population-based epidemiological studies have shown that roughly 50% to 60% of women after pregnancy will return to their pre-pregnancy weight, but the other 50% will retain extra weight, with a third of all pregnant women shifting a BMI category (normal to overweight or obesity) ( 49 ). The post-partum period following delivery of the newborn infant is also a vulnerable time for weight retention. Moreover, the relationship between breastfeeding practices and postpartum weight changes is largely unclear due to the difficulties examining breastfeeding and weight management in observational research and confounding variables ( 50 , 51 ). Breastfeeding overall has other notable health benefits to the infant, including reducing atop and improving , cognitive development, bone health, and maternal-infant attachment ( 52 ). Weight gain during midlife is common, and about two-thirds of women ages 40 to 59 and nearly three-quarters of women older than 60 are overweight or have obesity (BMI greater than 25 kg/m 2 ). On average, midlife women gain 1.5 pounds (0.7 kg) per year ( 53 ). Thus, it is not surprising that menopause is often depicted as a weight-gain trigger on a patient’s life-event graph, especially in older women who gain weight after a period of weight maintenance. Towards midlife, women undergo redistribution of body composition with increase in total body fat and enhanced inclination toward central abdominal visceral adiposity ( 54 ). Excess body weight during menopause is associated with elevated cardiovascular ( 55 ) and metabolic risk, including insulin resistance and Type 2 diabetes mellitus ( 56 , 57 ). Early or late-onset menopause (with final menstrual cycle age < 45 years or age > 55 years respectively) compared to age 46-55 years is associated with increased risk of Type 2 diabetes mellitus [HR 1.04, 95% CI 0.99, 1.09 and HR 1.08, 95% CI 1.01, 1.14, respectively] ( 58 ). Undergoing a hysterectomy or an oophorectomy increases diabetes risk further (RR 1.17, 95% CI 1.07-1.29) compared to peri-/post-menopausal women ( 59 ). CASE LESSONS IN PATIENT-GENERATED WEIGHT GRAPHS While in the clinic, having a patient generate their own drawing of weight graph accomplishes two-fold goals. First, it provides a template on which weight inflections in the patient’s
