Use of the Historial Weight Trajectory to Guide an Obesity Focused Patient Encounter
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, pubmed, gain, body, weight gain, patient, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, history, bmi


GRAPHS While in the clinic, having a patient generate their own drawing of weight graph accomplishes two-fold goals. First, it provides a template on which weight inflections in the patient’s life can be potentially identified with causative or contributory life events, medical conditions, and medications; and secondly, it provides a platform to guide the clinical discussion regarding appropriate goal setting and best approaches to help them achieve as close to a healthy weight range as possible. Impact of Medications The patient in Figure 4 experienced steroid-induced weight gain, a very common iatrogenic cause of obesity. Exploring reasons for why this patient was initiated on steroids and communication with other specialists regarding opportunities to switch to another non-steroid dependent medication, if available, might mitigate the weight gain and prove to be a successful weight management strategy. Similar discussions of alternative approaches may also be undertaken with other commonly prescribed medications that promote weight gain, including some birth control methods (e.g., Depo-Provera), histamines, beta-blockers, amitriptyline, gabapentin, pregabalin, sulfonylureas, thiazolidinediones, and insulin ( 60 ). Figure 4. Life graph showing effects of repeated exposures to steroids on weight for chronic inflammatory arthritis. Effects of Situational Life Changes That Impact Weight In Figure 5 , the patient’s weight was at its nadir during college years until graduation. Subsequently, marriage and job change were identified as life factors timed to weight gain. In addition, pregnancy and menopause were identified biological associations with upward weight trajectory over time. Psychological stressors appear to have further augmented weight gain over time. Resilience to major life stressors (marriage, divorce, loss of spouse, unemployment, death of a loved one, major illness or injury, moving/relocation) is, unfortunately, not as common as is thought and can precipitate psychosocial disorders such as anxiety, depression, and alcoholism ( 61 , 62 ). Figure 5. Life graph showing effects of several situational life changes that impact weight. The patient In Figure 6 had a stable weight prior to a physically traumatic incident that led to immobility and sedentary behaviors. Identification of this specific event contributing to upward weight trajectory in the patient helped tailor the treatment strategy toward physical therapy, rehabilitation, and a customized exercise prescription to mitigate the weight gain. Figure 6. Life graph showing effect of a traumatic incident (a motor vehicle accident in this case) on weight. Identification of Response to Weight Loss Interventions The patient in Figure 7 gained over 40
