Use of the Historial Weight Trajectory to Guide an Obesity Focused Patient Encounter
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, pubmed, gain, body, weight gain, patient, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, history, bmi


showing effect of a traumatic incident (a motor vehicle accident in this case) on weight. Identification of Response to Weight Loss Interventions The patient in Figure 7 gained over 40 pounds during exposure to various antipsychotic medications for the treatment of bipolar disorder. The downward shift in the weight graph occurred after initiation of metformin 500 mg once daily (to mitigate antipsychotic medication induced weight gain ( 63 )) and phentermine. If certain medications are critical and cannot be substituted with an alternative, weight neutral medication, as is often the case in patients requiring anti-psychotic medications, anti-obesity medications ( 64 ), or bariatric surgery can often reverse the weight gain. Figure 7. Life graph showing the effects of antipsychotic medications on weight and effective therapeutic intervention with metformin and anti-obesity medications. Obesity has a multifactorial etiology leading to wide variability in its presentation. Understanding causation and association of weight gain promoting factors in a patient’s life can help elucidate appropriate treatment strategies. Furthermore, initial non-response to anti-obesity medication does not indicate that the medication is ineffective. Rather it may not be targeting the pathophysiological pathways involved in metabolic and body weight dysregulation in the individual patient and an alternative anti-obesity medication or combination should be trialed for synergistic or additive weight loss effects. In Figure 8 , the first blue arrow shows the time of initial visit when the patient started to gain weight due to multifactorial etiology (strong family history of obesity, maladaptive stress related to work, unhealthy nutritional habits), followed by initiation of anti-obesity medicine therapy and intensive lifestyle intervention (phentermine; 2 nd blue arrow). Subsequently, the patient developed side effects and phentermine monotherapy was discontinued (3 rd blue arrow). Several other anti-obesity pharmacological options were trialed (4 th blue arrow); however, the patient did not respond. Ultimately, the patient underwent bariatric surgery (Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB)) to achieve successful weight loss response. Figure 8. The life events graph depicts the response to treatment and strategies for further intervention. Identification of Weight Regain after Successful Weight Loss: Importance of Prompt Intervention and Identification of Lifetime Maximum Weight Figure 9. Life graph showing effect of weight loss program intervention over time with weight regain. The life-events graph of a 55-year-old patient with a history of hypertension, obstructive sleep apnea, and severe obesity (BMI 41.8 kg/m 2 ) in Figure 9 shows a 95 pounds over a 1.5-year period through
