Use of the Historial Weight Trajectory to Guide an Obesity Focused Patient Encounter
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, pubmed, gain, body, weight gain, patient, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, history, bmi


55-year-old patient with a history of hypertension, obstructive sleep apnea, and severe obesity (BMI 41.8 kg/m 2 ) in Figure 9 shows a 95 pounds over a 1.5-year period through self-monitoring using an electronic smart phone tracking application, 1800 kcal/day intake, and an increase in physical activity as tolerated. However, after 1.5 years of successful weight loss, despite continued intensive lifestyle changes, the patient experienced weight regain over the next 3 years. Weight regain after a period of caloric restriction is physiologic as long-term persistence of metabolic adaptation occurs and hunger and satiety signals resist weight loss ( 65 ). It important to initiate anti-obesity pharmacotherapy at this critical stage to help sustain the weight loss and prevent weight regain. In this patient, starting an anti-obesity medication after 1.5 years when weight gain had started to occur would be recommended. It is also important to identify the patient’s lifetime max as the starting point when gauging effectiveness of anti-obesity medications in this scenario. Simply using the pre-medication weight might lead to inappropriate stopping of this treatment if weight stabilization is achieved, since the absence of subsequent weight loss might be misinterpreted as medication “failure.” By determining the lifetime maximum weight, however, weight stabilization is a very successful ~20% to 30% total weight loss (50 to 100 lbs. weight loss compared to the lifetime maximum weight of 293 lbs., depending on when it was started). Figure 10. Life graph showing a patient status post gastric-bypass surgery with weight regain following situational life transitions (marriage, birth of children). Figure 11. Life graph showing weight loss in a patient after bariatric surgery followed by weight regain after high job-related stress and retirement. Figures 10 and 11 depict life-event graphs of two patients who underwent metabolic and bariatric surgery. Following successful weight loss, they both experienced weight regain. Weight regain in the postoperative bariatric patient is often difficult to treat and is usually of multifactorial etiology (as examples, recurrence of obesity-related comorbidities, non-compliance and adherence to treatment recommendations and routine bariatric care, physiologic return of hunger signals, introduction of life stressors). Early recognition, evaluation and medical management, provided anatomical causes have been ruled out, with multidisciplinary team support are crucial to removing obstacles to weight maintenance and patient’s continued commitment to lifestyle improvements. Further, it presents an opportunity to intervene early and initiate anti-obesity pharmacotherapy, ideally at the expected weight loss nadir, usually 1-3
