Use of the Historial Weight Trajectory to Guide an Obesity Focused Patient Encounter
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, pubmed, gain, body, weight gain, patient, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, history, bmi


weight maintenance and patient’s continued commitment to lifestyle improvements. Further, it presents an opportunity to intervene early and initiate anti-obesity pharmacotherapy, ideally at the expected weight loss nadir, usually 1-3 years after surgery, to help optimize weight loss response and prevent weight regain ( 66 ). Communicating with Patients About the Disease of Obesity To effectively communicate obesity treatment recommendations to patients, medical professionals first need to translate obesity pathophysiology in language understood by patients, without bias or stigma. General questions, concerns, or sentiments often echoed by patients during their weight journey include: 1. “Doc, are you calling me ‘fat?’” 2. “I have tried every diet in the past. I lose weight only to regain it back.” 3. “I know it’s my fault I am this weight.” 4. “I have always been 300 pounds my entire life, no matter what.” 5. “I don’t think I need surgery. I’ll just have to diet and exercise anyways.” 6. “I don’t need medications to lose weight.” Clinically, there are three important concepts to convey to patients about the disease state: 1. Obesity is a disease, like hypertension or diabetes. 2. Because it is a disease, we can treat it as such, either starting with lifestyle and then moving on to medical and surgical treatments for obesity, or initiating lifestyle plus these treatments in patients with severe obesity. 3. It is not the patient’s fault that they developed obesity. There are strong biological and genetic forces at play that determine body mass in addition to medical, behavioral, lifestyle, psychosocial, and environmental influences. To clearly communicate with patients about the disease of obesity, a thorough understanding of energy metabolism is often necessary. Energy metabolism is complexly regulated in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus to set a defended body weight ( 10 , 36 , 67 ). This body weight “set point” is oftentimes biologically and genetically determined with influences from the modern macro- and micro-environments. Chronic exposure to an obesogenic environment can increase body fat mass set point in susceptible individuals causing the body to defend a higher weight regardless of well-intended volitional efforts to lose weight. Thus, current treatment strategies include coupling intensive lifestyle therapy with anti-obesity medications and/or bariatric surgery, to allow significant and sustained reductions in the fat mass set point. Discontinuation of treatments that successfully lower the body mass set point will result in regain of body weight to the
