Use of the Historial Weight Trajectory to Guide an Obesity Focused Patient Encounter
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, pubmed, gain, body, weight gain, patient, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, history, bmi


significant and sustained reductions in the fat mass set point. Discontinuation of treatments that successfully lower the body mass set point will result in regain of body weight to the original, pathologically higher body mass set point. Therefore, patients need to understand that treatments for obesity are long-term, as is true for any medication prescribed for a chronic medical condition. Regain of weight after discontinuation of therapy is not evidence of failed treatment or lack of willpower; rather it is physiologically expected. Medical professionals can incorporate this scientific understanding in a manner that evades bias and stigma and transforms the patient’s queries into a constructive dialogue. In response to the questions or concerns posed by the patients above, medical professionals can reply in the following manner: 1. “Doc, are you calling me ‘fat’?” Response : “ We only use the word ‘fat’ to describe mice and rodents, not humans. We are people. There are various parameters we check to make sure your body is healthy, not only from the outside, but also from the inside, similar to us checking your blood pressure and cholesterol. Your weight indicates that your body-mass-index is elevated. It means that it places you at high risk for, or already contributing to, other weight-related medical conditions. A high BMI is a result of a disease process inside your body, like diabetes. You have obesity, or adiposity-based chronic disease. The good news is that you have treatment options beyond just saying ‘eat less and exercise more’.” 2. “I have tried every diet in the past. I lose weight only to regain it back.” Response : “ Contrary to popular belief, we don’t consciously control our weight. It is regulated by a fat mass set point in our brains. If your fat mass set point is abnormally high (again, not your fault), your body will continue to defend that weight. This abnormal physiology is why weight regain is common. There are treatments that more effectively lower that fat mass set point, so you do not have to struggle. That way, when you are making healthy food choices and are active, your body starts to respond. If you’d like, we can discuss those treatment options and how they may benefit you.” 3. “I know it’s my fault I am this weight.” Response : “ First of all, I want you to understand that it’s not your fault you developed
