Use of the Historial Weight Trajectory to Guide an Obesity Focused Patient Encounter
KEYWORDS: weight, obesity, pubmed, gain, body, weight gain, patient, free, pmc, pmc free, free article, article, article pubmed, history, bmi


benefit you.” 3. “I know it’s my fault I am this weight.” Response : “ First of all, I want you to understand that it’s not your fault you developed obesity. You did not choose to ‘have’ obesity. If you were here today to discuss your diabetes diagnosis, it would be a completely different conversation, correct? Just like you did not have a choice in selecting your parents, you did not have a choice in the development of your obesity. Again, contrary to popular belief, majority of our weight is not under our control. The good news is that we can treat it.” 4. “I have always been 300 pounds my entire life, no matter what.” Response : “ Have you wondered why that has been the reason? We now know that there is a weight set point in our brain that determines what our brains think of as “normal.”. It is biologically and genetically determined with influences from the outside environment, medications, and other factors. In patients with obesity, this weight set point is abnormally high—your brain thinks that weight is now “normal.” Thus, when you try to lose weight, you regain it back to this set point and, sometime, more. If improving your lifestyle isn’t working, we have treatments to lower this fat mass set point when it is high. Anti-obesity medications and bariatric surgery are great tools to allow your brain to be happy with a lower weight set point so that you do not have to fight against your body.” 5. “I don’t think I need surgery. I’ll just have to diet and exercise anyways.” Response : “ Let’s explore this further. Can you help me understand more your reasons as to why you think you do not need surgery? What are your concerns and fears? What is your understanding about bariatric surgery? Let’s see if we can address some of those today.” 6. “I don’t need medications to lose weight.” Response : “ Can you help me understand your reasons for not considering medications? What is your understanding of obesity medications and how they work? If we try to manage your weight without medications, I would like to reassess your progress in 12 weeks. If you are still struggling despite all your best efforts, please know that it is not your fault, and that your body is telling you that it needs something more intensive
