HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: phage, enterococcal, manuscript, phages, author, author manuscript, faecalis, infection, manuscript author, cell, enterococci, bacterial, faecium, resistance, therapy


Author manuscript Curr Opin Microbiol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 01. Published in final edited form as: Curr Opin Microbiol. 2020 August ; 56: 38–44. doi:. Molecular mechanisms of enterococcal-bacteriophage interactions and implications for human health Gregory S. Canfield1,2, Breck. A. Duerkop2,* CO 80045 Abstract Once overlooked as passive bystanders of the human intestinal microbiota, new evidence is shedding light on the importance of enterococci and their bacteriophages (phages) in shaping targeting modality for eradication of problematic enterococci within the microbiota or infected tissue. The identification of enterococcal phage receptors, absorption factors, and transcriptional responses following phage infection reveal a complex predator-prey relationship that modulates enterococcal cell surface architecture, susceptibility to antibiotics, and adaptation to host associated environments. Considering the dry up of contemporary antibiotic discovery pipelines in the pharmaceutical industry and a continued emergence of multidrug resistant enterococci, enterococcal phages may serve as bonafide therapeutics. We highlight current advances in enterococcal phage biology with emphasis on recent breakthroughs in potential therapeutic applications that place enterococcal phages at the forefront of next-generation biologics. Introduction Enterococci are Gram-positive facultative anaerobes that inhabit the intestines of animals, including humans. Enterococcus faecalis and Enterococcus faecium, cause healthcare- associated infections, including, but not limited to, bacteremia, endocarditis, and urinary tract infections. Enterococci encode intrinsic and acquired antibiotic resistance that contributes to their healthcare-adapted lifestyle . This attribute limits effective therapeutic treatments against enterococcal diseases and highlights a serious need for novel treatment strategies that target drug-resistant enterococci . E. 19th Ave., RC1N 9126, Mail Stop 8333, Aurora, CO 80045, , Phone: 303-724-8670. Publisher's Disclaimer: This is a PDF file of an unedited manuscript that has been accepted for publication. As a service to our customers we are providing this early version of the manuscript. The manuscript will undergo copyediting, typesetting, and review of the resulting proof before it is published in its final form. Please note that during the production process errors may be discovered which could affect the content, and all legal disclaimers that apply to the journal pertain. Conflict of Interest Statement No conflicts to declare Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Bacteriophages (phages) are promising antibacterial agents that have reemerged as viable therapeutics in the face of ever-growing antibiotic resistant bacterial infections. These include obligately lytic phages whose host-range is dictated by bacterial cell wall architecture, cell-surface receptors, and bacterial insensitivity to phage infection through genetic systems
