HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: phage, enterococcal, manuscript, phages, author, author manuscript, faecalis, infection, manuscript author, cell, enterococci, bacterial, faecium, resistance, therapy


ever-growing antibiotic resistant bacterial infections. These include obligately lytic phages whose host-range is dictated by bacterial cell wall architecture, cell-surface receptors, and bacterial insensitivity to phage infection through genetic systems such as restriction modification, abortive infection and “clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats” (CRISPR) . The majority of phages that infect the enterococci belong to the order of Caudovirales, dsDNA phages with varying tail lengths and capsid symmetries. This order is divided into three morphotypes: Myoviridae (long contractile tails), Siphoviridae (long non-contractile tails), and Podoviridae (short tails). The genome of these phages can range from ~15–150Kb in size and exhibit modular genetic organization consisting of lysis, replication, regulatory and structural gene modules . Given the increasing prevalence of enterococcal phage genomes available in public repositories, it is possible to cluster these phages based on shared orthologous genes. Comparative analysis of enterococcal phage genomes results in 10 distinct orthoclusters (I- X), characterized by phage family, genome size, GC content, and morphology . This analysis provides a foundation for understanding phage diversity in enterococci and identifies phages devoid of virulence factors and antibiotic resistance genes, worthy of further study for phage therapy. Despite the presence of over 35 species of enterococci, current knowledge of enterococcal phages is mostly limited to those infecting enterococcal species commonly associated with human infections, E. faecalis and E. faecium. The morphology, genome content, and behavior of phages that infect other clinically relevant enterococcal species remains a black-box and a meritorious target of future investigation. Considering the virulent nature of enterococcal phages, their specificity for target host strains, and self-amplification upon infection, enterococcal phages have come under intense focus by the biomedical research community as possible anti-enterococcal therapeutics. We will discuss the most recent advances in enterococcal phage biology, the receptors they exploit for bacterial surface attachment and subsequent infection, and the state of phage therapy in treating enterococcal infections and dysbiosis. Phage interactions at the enterococcal cell surface. The host receptors that mediate phage-enterococcal infection are beginning to be discovered. Characterization of enterococcal phage receptors will provide insights into cell wall surface structures that contribute to phage resistance, but also to structures that may be important for cellular viability and adaptation to external stressors. Given their surface localization, phage receptors are also likely to be exploited as narrow spectrum targets for future drug and vaccine discovery. Phage infection protein of E. faecalis (PIP ). EF In 2016,
