HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: phage, enterococcal, manuscript, phages, author, author manuscript, faecalis, infection, manuscript author, cell, enterococci, bacterial, faecium, resistance, therapy


localization, phage receptors are also likely to be exploited as narrow spectrum targets for future drug and vaccine discovery. Phage infection protein of E. faecalis (PIP ). EF In 2016, the first enterococcal protein-based phage receptor was described . Phages VPE25 and VFW, isolated from municipal wastewater and capable of infecting multidrug resistant (MDR) E. faecalis V583, were used to identify the phage receptor PIP (phage EF Curr Opin Microbiol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript infection protein of E. faecalis), a cell wall-associated transmembrane protein (Figure 1). Using mutant E. faecalis cells, a specificity determinant was revealed in an extracellular domain of PIP that mediated tropism of VPE25, VFW or both for diverse E. faecalis EF strains. Further analysis demonstrated that PIP was necessary for phage DNA entry but EF not phage particle adsorption. VPE25 was capable of reducing E. faecalis density in the intestines of gnotobiotic mice one order of magnitude. However, phage resistance emerged in the form of mutations in PIP , enabling the rebound of intestinal E. faecalis. This EF demonstrated the potential limitation of phage monotherapy promoting the emergence of phage resistance. Although selection of spontaneous mutants may drive the emergence of phage resistance under certain conditions, evidence also points to spatial segregation of bacteria from phages in the intestine as a way that bacteria survive upon phage exposure. Exopolysaccharide. Work that followed the identification of the PIP phage receptor demonstrated that cell EF surface exopolysaccharide content mediates phage adsorption and subsequent infection by lytic E. faecalis phages [8–10]. Phage adsorption depends on a conserved exopolysaccharide locus known as the enterococcal polysaccharide antigen (epa). Ho et al. showed that mutation of the glycosyltransferase epaR promotes resistance to phage NPV1 . epaR mutants displayed enhanced sensitivity to the antibiotic daptomycin and salt stress, indicating that phage resistance in E. faecalis is a fitness trade-off. However, mutation of epa genes reduces susceptibility to ceftriaxone and carbapenems, an antibiotic trade-off hypothesized to result from reduced rhamnose and/or increased mannose abundance in the cell wall polysaccharide . The significance of Epa in promoting phage resistance was reinforced by other independent investigations showing that phage resistance mutations localized to the epa gene locus and these mutants were also re-sensitized to cell wall targeting antibiotics . Furthermore, the frequent detection of phage adsorption deficiency in E. faecalis DNA mismatch repair (Δ
