HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: phage, enterococcal, manuscript, phages, author, author manuscript, faecalis, infection, manuscript author, cell, enterococci, bacterial, faecium, resistance, therapy


epa gene locus and these mutants were also re-sensitized to cell wall targeting antibiotics . Furthermore, the frequent detection of phage adsorption deficiency in E. faecalis DNA mismatch repair (Δ mutS and Δ mutL) mutants, suggests that Epa may be a mutation hotspot that mediates phage resistance . Oral phage treatment selects for E. faecalis epa mutants in the mouse intestine and such mutants are less fit at colonizing the mouse intestine both in the absence and presence of vancomycin . Considering that Epa facilitates E. faecalis invasion of epithelial cells and evasion of host immune defenses , using phages to steer E. faecalis toward Epa modification and subsequently fitness defects could aid in limiting the dissemination E. faecalis at mucosal surfaces. Capsular polysaccharide. Changes in exopolysacchride composition also promote phage resistance in E. faecium. Wandro et al. studied the co-evolution of phage Efv12-phi1 with its host strain E. faecium TX1330 in an 8-day serial passage experiment . Phage and bacterial genomic sequencing analysis demonstrated a co-evolutionary arms race that selected for phage and bacterial variants within the ecosystem. Genomic analysis of the E. faecium phage-resistant mutants revealed mutations in rpoC (RNA polymerase β subunit) and yqwD2 (capsule tyrosine kinase), suggesting that these genes are important for infection by phage Efv12- phi1. The authors hypothesized that mutation in rpoC prevents bacterial replication Curr Opin Microbiol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript machinery co-opt by phage given the lack of an rpoC-like gene in phage Efv12-phi1. However, another possibility is a change in expression of cell wall or capsular biosynthesis components instrumental for the binding of phage Efv12-phi1. The ywqD2 mutation was proposed to modify the composition of the capsular polysaccharide along the cell surface, presumably to limit phage adsorption. Mutations in the E. faecium capsular biosynthesis locus likely impact the integrity of the bacterial cell wall, which could manifest in fitness defects during intestinal colonization and/or antibiotic therapy . In response to E. faecium phage-resistance adaptation, Efv12-phi1 evolved tandem duplications in a putative tail fiber gene allowing the phage to overcome cell surface alterations of the capsular polysaccharide. Diversification of enterococcal phage tail gene sequences are also attributed to host-range specificity, as phage tail fiber genes frequently possess domains for receptor binding proteins that when modified can expand the host-range of a given phage . As the number of sequenced
