HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: phage, enterococcal, manuscript, phages, author, author manuscript, faecalis, infection, manuscript author, cell, enterococci, bacterial, faecium, resistance, therapy


specificity, as phage tail fiber genes frequently possess domains for receptor binding proteins that when modified can expand the host-range of a given phage . As the number of sequenced enterococcal phage genomes increases, comparative genomics may enable the identification of phage genetic signatures that dictate host-range . Interestingly, enterococcal phages have been isolated with multi-species host-ranges. For instance, Efv12-phi1 (myophage) and MDA1 (podophage) exhibit expanded host-range against multiple strains of E. faecalis, E. faecium, or both [16,22–24]. The extent to which distinct enterococcal phages represent broad or narrow host-range phages and whether certain phages encode additional auxiliary genes (i.e. polysaccharide depolymerases and anti-CRISPR systems) remain to be explored. Phages lead the way for future enterococcal infection therapy Studies using lytic phages for the treatment of enterococcal infections are limited to in vitro and animal infection models. No clinical or single-arm trials in the modern era have assessed phage therapy during enterococcal infection, whereas phage trials have been performed for other pathogens [25–27]. However, a lone case series of three patients with chronic bacterial prostatitis cured using transrectally administered phages suggests feasibility of this approach . Given this absence of human infection data we will focus on what is known regarding host response to phage infection from in vitro and animal model studies. Biofilm models. The use of phages alone or in combination with antibiotics for the clearance of biofilms is being explored as a potential therapeutic strategy. Synergistic activity of phage EFLK1 and vancomycin was demonstrated against vancomycin-resistant E. faecalis in a static biofilm model . The phage receptor used by EFLK1 and the molecular mechanism of EFLK1- antibiotic synergy are unknown. The applicability of the biofilm model on polystyrene plates as a mimic of biofilm formation during in vivo infection has its limitations. For example, Melo et al. demonstrated limited potency of lytic phages agai enterococci in a collagen- wound model of biofilm formation . This was also observed with lytic phages and ampicillin treatment of E. faecalis biofilms formed on polyethylene terephthalate-coated silicon from cardiac left ventricular assist drivelines . Variable success was noted with Ef11/FL1C(Δ36)P nisA, an engineered phage, for killing E. faecalis V583 (99% killed) or JH2–2 (18% killed) biofilms formed on dentin . Others have observed efficacy for a Curr Opin Microbiol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript two-phage cocktail against biofilms formed on
