HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: phage, enterococcal, manuscript, phages, author, author manuscript, faecalis, infection, manuscript author, cell, enterococci, bacterial, faecium, resistance, therapy


have observed efficacy for a Curr Opin Microbiol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript two-phage cocktail against biofilms formed on the surface of fibrin clot . Hence, both environmental conditions and phage host-range are considerations that must be further explored to assess the efficiency of lytic phage killing of enterococci within biofilms. Phage lysins are being investigated for activity against enterococcal biofilms. Lysins are enzymes consisting of a N-terminal catalytic domain and a C-terminal cell wall binding domain that act in concert with phage holins to facilitate exit of assembled phages from infected cells . Exposure of bacteria to recombinant phage lysins causes peptidoglycan degradation that enables osmotic lysis of the cell . Recombinant lysin ORF28 of phage Ef11 was efficacious at killing 71% of E. faecalis strains tested, compared to only ~10% of E. faecium strains . ORF28 was also active against biofilms formed on tissue culture treated polystyrene . These results are similar to those previously described for the enterococcal phage EF-P10 endolysin, though enterococcal phage 1 endolysin (PlyV12) may have broader host activity . Given the rapid bactericidal activity of lysins and the low occurrence of lysin resistance, lysins are being investigated as antibacterial therapeutics in clinical trials . Animal models. A major limitation of in vitro phage-bacterial infection studies is the absence of host factors including spatial segregation of organs and the immune system. A phage cocktail was shown to rescue wax worms (Galleria mellonella) from a lethal injection of vancomycin resistant E. faecium . Intravitreal phage monotherapy of E. faecalis endophthalmitis in mice reduced in vitreous myeloperoxidase, inflammatory cell invasion, and retinal detachment . E. faecalis induced TNFα was reduced following phage co-administration with ampicillin in a mouse enterococcal peritonitis model . Most animal models cannot account for host immune status and other clinical manifestations caused by environmental exposures (chemotherapy and antibiotics) in humans. This is especially relevant for individuals undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) or solid organ transplants where opportunistic enterococcal infections are of serious concern . Prior to the implementation of therapeutic enterococcal phages, parameters related to humoral and cell mediated immune responses to phage will need to be resolved. Overall, phage therapy in laboratory and animal models of enterococcal infection demonstrate efficacy of this approach and reason to pursue further studies in humans. Alcoholic liver disease. Enterococci become pathobionts in the
