HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: phage, enterococcal, manuscript, phages, author, author manuscript, faecalis, infection, manuscript author, cell, enterococci, bacterial, faecium, resistance, therapy


therapy in laboratory and animal models of enterococcal infection demonstrate efficacy of this approach and reason to pursue further studies in humans. Alcoholic liver disease. Enterococci become pathobionts in the dysbiotic intestinal microbiota. By surveying the intestinal microbiota of individuals suffering from chronic alcohol use and alcoholic hepatitis, Duan and colleagues found Enterococcus sp. to be 2700-fold greater in these individuals compared with healthy controls . Detection of genes encoding the E. faecalis virulence factor cytolysin from stool was observed in 30% of individuals with alcoholic hepatitis. Strikingly, a 180-day mortality of 89% was found among patients with alcoholic hepatitis in whom cytolysin genes could be detected in stool. Cox regression analysis indicated the presence of cytolysin to be a stronger predictor of mortality than the model for Curr Opin Microbiol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Reduction in alcohol-induced hepatocyte pathology and inflammation was observed following the eradication of cytolysin-positive E. faecalis colonized mice using lytic phage therapy (Figure 2A). Similarly, hepatic pathology and subsequent E. faecalis overgrowth was ameliorated following phage therapy , providing further evidence that E. faecalis cytolysin worsens liver inflammation in patients with alcoholic hepatitis. Graft versus host disease and autoimmunity. Intestinal overgrowth of E. faecium can occur in patients with acute graft versus host disease (GVHD) following allogenic HSCT . Elevated luminal lactose caused by enterocyte lactase deficiency and lactose malabsorption at the intestinal brush border selects for E. faecium overgrowth (Figure 2B). It is proposed that enterocyte lactase deficiency is caused by enterocyte damage from bone marrow conditioning regimens prior to HSCT and/or allogeneic T-cells present after HSCT. Importantly, this work showed that lactose restriction from the diet of allogenic HSCT mice reduced E. faecium abundance and subsequent GVHD. Maladaptive auto-immune responses are also observed following Enterococcus gallinarum intestinal translocation to the liver . E. gallinarum promotes epithelial barrier dysfunction, reduced mucus and antimicrobial peptide secretion, and stimulated inflammation following intestinal colonization of mice. In the mouse liver, tryptophan- derived indoles from E. gallinarum induced auto-antigens, endogenous retrovirus glycoprotein 70, β2-glycoprotein-I and auto-antibodies through stimulation of aryl hydrocarbon receptor (Figure 2C). These findings highlight the need for developing phage therapies to a wider variety of enterococcal dysbioses and to expanding lytic phage discovery beyond more common enterococcal strains. Conclusions Long overlooked as inert commensals, it is now clear that enterococci and their phages
