HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: phage, enterococcal, manuscript, phages, author, author manuscript, faecalis, infection, manuscript author, cell, enterococci, bacterial, faecium, resistance, therapy


variety of enterococcal dysbioses and to expanding lytic phage discovery beyond more common enterococcal strains. Conclusions Long overlooked as inert commensals, it is now clear that enterococci and their phages are important members of the human intestinal ecosystem that influence human health through direct (infection) and indirect (dysbiosis) mechanisms. Initial studies have unearthed complex molecular interactions between phages and enterococci, capable of shaping enterococcal fitness. Phageenterococcal interactions have been shown to profoundly impact host-microbe interactions during dysbiosis. It remains to be determined whether the knowledge gained so far related to enterococcalphage molecular interactions can be translated to transform how we approach anti-enterococcal therapies or inform phage-based strategies to restore enterococcal susceptibility to antibiotics during human infection. Clinical application of phage therapy into western medicine met its demise in the 20th century, in part from antibiotics, but also due to a poor understanding of the mechanisms utilized by phages to infect their hosts, including the identification of phage receptors. Considering the future of phage therapy, the identification of cell surface receptors that enable phage infection of bacterial cells needs to become the gold standard for enterococci and all other bacteria prior the use of phages in the clinic. Such knowledge will aid in the rational design of therapeutic phage cocktails to limit the emergence of phage resistant bacteria and to achieve diverse bacterial strain selectivity . The anticipated benefits of Curr Opin Microbiol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 August 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript such therapeutic phage selection for the treatment of enterococcal infections will provide the enterococci respond to phage infection can reveal potential unintended consequences phage- mediated bacterial adaptations that might contribute to virulence and/or undesirable off- target effects on polymicrobial communities . Does phage therapy have the potential to cause collateral damage to other members of the intestinal microbiota, host immunity or mucosal epithelial barriers? Answering these important questions will provide the rationale for more informed strategies toward implementing phage therapies directed against the enterococci. Acknowledgements Enterococcal-bacteriophage interaction studies in the Duerkop lab are supported by National Institutes of Health grant R01AI141479 (B.A.D.).
