|
KEYWORDS: patients, ibd, agreement, children, paediatric, remission, disease, risk, treatment, adult, dose, therapy, adults, years, use


the burden of disease and (cid:129) The European Society of Paediatric Gastro- impact on patients, families and society has grown.5,6 enterology, Hepatology and Nutrition and Although paediatric UC is more extensive and more European Crohn's and Colitis Organisation likely to be severe than adult‐onset UC,7,8 and despite guidelines for management of ulcerative recentintroductionofadvancedtherapies,9therapeutic colitis were last published in 2018 and are optionsarelimitedwithsignificantregulatorybarriersto updated herein. paediatric drug approval.10–12 (cid:129) Ambulatory management of ulcerative colitis These guidelines are focused on the ambulatory in children remains complex. setting and are an update from the previous European Crohn's and Colitis Organisation (ECCO) and Eur- What is New opean Society of Paediatric Gastroenterology, Hepa- (cid:129) Some of the main updates from the previous tology and Nutrition (ESPGHAN) guidelines published guidelines relate to the importance of close in 201813 and a 2nd revision of the original from and frequent (especially non‐invasive) mon- 2012.14 They are intended to serve as an evidence‐ itoring,leading totherapy adjustments, along based, but also practical and accessible resource for with suggested algorithms for managing pa- practitioners and trainees involved in treating children tients in the ambulatory setting. withUCintheambulatorysetting.Theyaredesignedto (cid:129) New off‐label drugs are discussed, as is op- assist in decision making but are not intended to timisation of approved drugs, including replaceclinicaljudgementandexperience,recognising appropriate dosing and use of therapeutic the need to adjust guidelines to specific patients and drug monitoring. healthcare settings. (cid:129) Emphasisismadeonminimisingexposureto In this paper, we review measures of assessing corticosteroids, use of bowel ultrasound and disease activity and severity, detail the array of thera- indications for cancer surveillance. pies for UC (including ‘less traditional’ treatment (cid:129) Importantly, we stress the regulatory chal- options), discuss inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)‐ lenges of studying and approving new drugs unclassified (IBD‐U), management of extraintestinal for managing children with ulcerative colitis, manifestations (EIMs) of UC, and supportive care which delay access to important treatments (includingnutrition, anaemia,andcancersurveillance). for affected children. The ESPGHAN‐ECCO paediatric UC guidelines are divided into two parts, but should be seen as one complementary resource. Surgical aspects and thromboprophylaxis are discussed in the acute severe onset [VEO]‐IBD,18,19 endoscopy,20 surgery,21 and colitis (ASC) guidelines.15 Some related areas are liver involvement22]. discussed in less detail as they are covered by other Emerging areas of UC management that have guidelines or position papers (including the diagnostic especially evolved since the previous guidelines [Porto] criteria,16 paediatric IBD subtypes,17 very early includetheuseofbowelultrasound,theneedforhigher | WINEETAL. 767 doses, and a
