|
KEYWORDS: patients, ibd, agreement, children, paediatric, remission, disease, risk, treatment, adult, dose, therapy, adults, years, use


management that have guidelines or position papers (including the diagnostic especially evolved since the previous guidelines [Porto] criteria,16 paediatric IBD subtypes,17 very early includetheuseofbowelultrasound,theneedforhigher | WINEETAL. 767 doses, and a role for therapeutic drug monitoring The guidelines include both recommendations (TDM) with antitumour necrosis factor (TNF) therapy, and ‘practice points’, which reflect common practice and integrating advanced and combination therapies. where evidence is lacking or provide useful techni- Beyond providing guidance for management of ambu- cal details. Authors were instructed to focus mostly latory UC, we hope that this paper will serve as an on key papers published since 2016 (which would educational resource and guide for advocacy (by not have been covered in the previous guidelines). serving as a standard of care, but also recognising The subgroup's text and recommendations were variation in access and resources). iterated by email with the guideline leads until refined. Each working group responsible for an intervention or diagnostic topic tabulated the senti- 2 | METHODS nelpaediatricandadultmanuscriptsusedtosupport their text, with grading of evidence according to the Following an open call by the Paediatric IBD Porto Newcastle‐Ottawa assessment scales for case and Interest Groups of ESPGHAN and ECCO in control and cohort studies23 and according to the were selected by the steering committee (E.W., A.A., Information S4: Table S1). The entire group then R.K.R., D.T.), including two early career members, an votedonallrecommendationsandpracticepointsin adult gastroenterologist and an adult surgeon. These threeonlinerounds,whileaddingspecificcomments guidelines follow the ESPGHAN Standard Operating using a web‐based voting platform. The document Procedure ( wasrevisedagainbasedonthecommentsreceived, governance-and-regulation). The aim was to generate and the group met virtually three times to discuss two distinct manuscripts, the first focused on ambula- key areas of disagreement. tory UC (part 1) and the second on acute severe After a 3rd round of electronic voting and revi- UC (part 2), similar to the 2018 guidelines. Next, a sions, a final set of statements was circulated, and systematic review of the literature was performed the group met face‐to‐face for a final full‐day con- centrally by a librarian, guided by search terms deve- sensus meeting during the ESPGHAN annual meet- loped by the study leads (E.W., A.A.). Electronic ing (Milan, May 2024). Only statements and practice searches were performed on June 15, 2023, using points supported by at least 80% of the group PubMed, Ovid Medline, Embase and Cochrane advanced to each next round of voting, with attempts databases (Supporting Information S1:
