|
KEYWORDS: patients, ibd, agreement, children, paediatric, remission, disease, risk, treatment, adult, dose, therapy, adults, years, use


2023, using points supported by at least 80% of the group PubMed, Ovid Medline, Embase and Cochrane advanced to each next round of voting, with attempts databases (Supporting Information S1: Document S1). to improve consensus by discussion and refinement cohortstudies,case‐controlstudies,diagnosticstudies, not achieve 80% approval is included in Supporting surveys, letters, narrative reviews, case series and Information S5: Table S2. Recommendations were highly relevant selected abstracts published after June graded according to the Oxford Centre for Evidence‐ 2016 (data lock date of previous guidelines) were all Based Medicine.25 An additional virtual meeting to utilised if performed in children. We used the search discuss and vote on several minor adjustments took results of the previous guidelines13 to cover the litera- placeinNovember2024,withconsensusreachedon ture from 1985 to June 2016. Although we aimed to all remaining issues. The final versions of the two basetheadultliteratureontherecentlyupdatedECCO paperswerereviewedbyallauthorsandapprovedby UC guidelines,9 leading adult randomised controlled the members of the Paediatric IBD Porto Group and trials (RCTs) and meta‐analyses identified in the initial sponsoring societies (ESPGHAN and ECCO), with search were not excluded for perusal and referenced input from representatives of the European Federa- if found to be relevant. Following the elimination of tion of Crohn's and Ulcerative Colitis Associations. duplicates, 12,121 abstracts were reviewed by the Together with the accompanying paper on acute workinggroupsforeligibility.Atotalof11,223abstracts severe UC (this study), we provide a detailed outline were excluded, mainly for the following reasons: clear forthemanagementofpaediatricUC,summarisedin irrelevance to the pre‐defined topics, review manu- Figure 1. scripts and manuscripts focusing on Crohn disease For the current ambulatory manuscript, ten topic‐ (CD) or on molecular/genetic pathways. The decision guided working groups were formed to address 30 regarding questionable eligibility was made by the PICO (population, intervention, comparison, outcome) lead authors (E.W./A.A.). Finally, 898 full‐text manu- and30non‐PICOquestions,formulatedbythesteering scripts were retrieved and circulated to the relevant committee (Supporting Information S1: Document S1). working groups for writing their sections (Supporting Elective surgery, despite being utilised in ambulatory Information S2: Figure S1). Given the paucity of patients, is discussed together with urgent surgery in evidence for some topics, key papers published after the ASC manuscript.15 A total of 37 recommendations the initial search and up to the final submission of the and 76 practice points were endorsed, and the con- guidelines were also included. sensus rate was at least 84% for all statements. | 768 WINEETAL. 3 | ASSESSING AND PREDICTING Treatment should be evaluated and reconsidered DISEASE ACTIVITY
