|
KEYWORDS: patients, ibd, agreement, children, paediatric, remission, disease, risk, treatment, adult, dose, therapy, adults, years, use


and haemoglobin, and higher lished since then. Faecal calprotectin levels over PUCAI at diagnosis, predict higher colectomy rates 350mcg/g together with elevated CRP were demon- and biologic use at 18 months.34 In particular, lower strated to predict disease relapse in the following albumin levels were also confirmed to increase the 6monthsinchildrenwithquiescentUC.46Furthermore, risk of colectomy in another prospective cohort amorethan75%decreaseinfaecalcalprotectininthe study.51 Assessment should also include a review of first 4–12 weeks of treatment was found predictive of immunisation records, preferably at the time of diag- These findings were incorporated into the PROTECT some cases, specific vaccines should be provided if prediction model together with baseline PUCAI, albu- possible before starting immunosuppressive therapy min and haemoglobin.34,36 to mitigate infectious risks.52,53 Live vaccines are Routine laboratory tests (haemoglobin, CRP, generally contraindicated with immunosuppressive platelets, albumin) can be normal in UC patients, therapy, especially corticosteroids. | 772 WINEETAL. Endoscopy is the gold standard for assessing dysplasia and CRC in UC patients under 18 years old mucosal inflammation.54 In paediatric UC, the Mayo have been reported to date.74–76 endoscopic score, which ranges from none to severe (0–3 points), along with the number of affected colonic segments (rectum, sigmoid, descending, transverse 4 | ORAL 5‐AMINOSALICYLATE (5‐ASA) and ascending colon), can be used for evaluation.13,54 AND TOPICAL (SUPPOSITORY/ENEMA) Although not validated, the modified Mayo endoscopic THERAPIES scoreisasimpletoolthatcombinesdiseaseextentwith the Mayo Endoscopic score.55 The UCEIS is a vali- 4.1 | Recommendations dated index that assesses vascular pattern, bleeding and ulcers at the most severe site (Supporting Infor- 1. Oral 5‐ASA compounds are recommended as first‐ mation S5: Table S5).54,56 line induction and maintenance therapy for mild‐to‐ While mucosal healing is associated with favour- moderate UC [EL2, adults EL1] (100% agreement). able disease outcomes in adult and paediatric UC,57 2. Combined oral and rectal 5‐ASA therapy is more the prognostic role of histology is still debated. A effective than oral 5‐ASA monotherapy [EL2, adults meta‐analysis including more than 2500 adult pa- EL1] (100% agreement). tients showed that persistent histological activity was 3. Rectal monotherapy should be reserved for mild‐to‐ associated with a higher risk of UC relapse.58 A moderate ulcerative proctitis [EL2, adults EL1] paediatric UC cohort study showed a 15% rate of (100% agreement). mucosal abnormality (with colonic intestinal gland 4. When rectal therapy is used, 5‐ASA is preferred histological abnormalities), associated with a higher over corticosteroids for both induction and mainte- risk of relapse and need for medical
