|
KEYWORDS: patients, ibd, agreement, children, paediatric, remission, disease, risk, treatment, adult, dose, therapy, adults, years, use


gland 4. When rectal therapy is used, 5‐ASA is preferred histological abnormalities), associated with a higher over corticosteroids for both induction and mainte- risk of relapse and need for medical escalation and nance [EL5, adults EL1] (100% agreement). colectomy in the first 2 years of follow‐up.59 Con- versely, two smaller paediatric cohort studies indi- cated that histological scores at diagnosis do not 4.2 | Practice points affect colectomy risk at 90 days60 and long‐term prognosis.61 Other promising biomarkers that might 1. No mesalamine delivery system has proven clearly predict UC prognosis are different targeted gene superior for induction or maintenance of remission. expression,62microRNA3563orN‐glycanexpression There is no efficacy difference between once daily inthemucosa,64andstoolandseruminterleukin(IL)‐ and twice daily dosing of mesalamine. Only sulfa- 1β and IL‐1ra.65 salazine is available in liquid formulation and may There is increasing interest in using colonic ultra- alsobeeffectiveforarthritis,butitisassociatedwith sound for monitoring disease activity in paediatric more adverse events (Agreement 96%). UC.66 Tworecent meta‐analyses from the same Dutch 2. Suggested dosing: oral mesalamine usually teamwereconductedinhealthychildren67andchildren 50–70mg/kg/day (up to 100mg/kg/day or 4.8g with IBD68 and reported a cut‐off of BWT above 2mm daily); rectal mesalamine 25mg/kg up to 1g daily; for the definition of colonic inflammation, although a sulfasalazine 40–70mg/kg/day up to 4g daily. cut‐off of 3mm is more specific. Based on this evi- Higherrectalmesalaminedosesupto4garebeing dence, a small cohort preliminary validation study on used, but evidence suggests that it is no more ultrasound score for paediatric UC was designed and effective than 1g (Agreement 96%). published.69 3. Suppositories are useful for limited proctitis, while Data supporting colorectal cancer (CRC) surveil- foamandliquidmesalamineenemasaresuitablefor lance recommendations are available in adult guide- more extensive colitis (Agreement 100%). lines70,71andthe2018positionpaperofPortoGroupof 4. Gradual sulfasalazine dose augmentation over ESPGHAN on endoscopy in paediatric IBD.54 Accord- 7–14 days may mitigate dose‐dependent side ef- ing to the latter, cancer surveillance should be per- fects. If evidence of sulfasalazine hypersensitivity formed after 8–10 years of disease, with intervals (fever, rash) occurs, the sulfasalazine should be based on risk factors (extensive colitis, high burden of stopped immediately (Agreement 100%). thecolitisovertime,andfamilyhistoryofCRC;patients 5. The effective induction dose should also be contin- who also have PSC are at highest risk, as discussed uedasthemaintenancedose.Afterseveralmonths below). High‐risk patients (>2 factors) need annual of sustained biochemical remission, a dose reduc- endoscopy, intermediate‐risk patients (>1 factor) every tion within the suggested dose range may be con- 3years,andthosewithnoriskfactorsevery5years.54 sidered (Agreement 96%). It is worth noting, however, that although childhood‐ 6.
