|
KEYWORDS: patients, ibd, agreement, children, paediatric, remission, disease, risk, treatment, adult, dose, therapy, adults, years, use


dose reduc- endoscopy, intermediate‐risk patients (>1 factor) every tion within the suggested dose range may be con- 3years,andthosewithnoriskfactorsevery5years.54 sidered (Agreement 96%). It is worth noting, however, that although childhood‐ 6. Treatment modification should be considered in onset UC has been related to a higher risk of devel- patients who do not show an initial meaningful oping CRC later in life compared with matched refer- response to mesalamine within 2–3 weeks of ther- ence individuals without IBD,72,73 only a few cases of apy, as most children with mild‐to‐moderate UC will | WINEETAL. 773 not achieve remission with oral mesalamine mono- similar PUCAI‐defined remission rates after induction therapy alone. Addition of mesalamine enemas (55% and 56%, respectively).83 should be considered after oral mesalamine failure Oral mesalamine may be better tolerated than sul- before progressing to oral corticosteroids fasalazine (relative risk [RR] of adverse effects: 0.48, (Agreement 100%). 95% CI: 0.36–0.63), but the latter is cheaper, as 7. Acute mesalamine intolerance could present as an effective,andremainstheonly5‐ASAavailableinliquid exacerbationoftheUC,usuallywithinthefirstmonth formulation,makingitattractiveforyoungchildren.78,79 of treatment. Symptoms resolve within days of ces- Sulfasalazine also has a direct effect on nuclear factor sation. Recurrence on rechallenge is diagnostic and kappa B, which may add to its mode of action.94 Sul- precludes its future use. Symptoms usually recur fasalazine suspension was safe and effective in a ret- following rectal administration (Agreement 100%). rospective study of 57 children with UC (mean [standard deviation (SD)] age 5.3±3.3 years) with Strong evidence supports the use of 5‐ASA for inability to swallow tablets.95 Moreover, except for the induction and maintenance of remission in mild‐to‐ uncommon allergic reaction (<0.1%), the vast majority moderate UC at all ages.77–83 According to the PRO- of adverse events are mild (e.g., headache and gas- TECTinceptioncohortstudy,corticosteroid‐freeclinical trointestinal symptoms) and uncommon.96 Serious remission on mesalamine was obtained in 38% after adverse events with 5‐ASA treatment are rare and 1 year in children with mild‐to‐moderate UC after include renal, pancreatic, pulmonary and cardiac standardised induction with mesalamine (with or with- complications.97–101 Sulfasalazine hypersensitivity out corticosteroids).34 presents with fever, rash and eosinophilia, which The MUPPIT trial demonstrated no difference in should trigger immediate treatment cessation102; folic outcomescomparingoncedaily(clinicalresponse60%, acid deficiency has been reported with sulfasala- 63%, remission 40%) oral mesalamine.84 Improvement ranges from 2% to 5%.77,78 Intolerance to 5‐ASA was observed in almost all responders by Week 2 medications may mimic a UC flare, and when clini- without additional benefit after Week 3. A once‐daily
