|
KEYWORDS: patients, ibd, agreement, children, paediatric, remission, disease, risk, treatment, adult, dose, therapy, adults, years, use


methyltransferase (TPMT) genotype or nases) and low 6‐TGN, concomitant use of allo- phenotype (i.e., TPMT activity) should be tested purinol may provide a valid therapeutic option, in based on local accessibility and variant frequency suitably experienced units. The suggested allopu- before starting thiopurines to identify patients at rinol dose is 50mg once daily in patients <30kg greater risk of profound myelosuppression. The and 100mg once daily in patients ≥30kg with a dose should be reduced in heterozygous patients reduced dose of azathioprine (to approximately or those with low activity. Thiopurines should not 25%–30% of the initial dose). Children must be beusedinchildrenwithhomozygousmutationsfor closely monitored, given the increased risk of tox- TPMT or those with very low TPMT activity, as icity (Agreement 96%). defined by each laboratory (Agreement 88%). 11. The benefits of thiopurine withdrawal should be 2. Regular monitoring of blood counts and liver en- carefully weighed against an increased risk of UC zymes is recommended in all cases, including relapse. Thiopurine withdrawal could be con- patients whose enzyme activity (TPMT or NUDT‐ sidered in patients in sustained clinical remission 15) was assessed: during the first week, every followinglong‐termtreatment(atleast1year)after 1–2weeksduringthefirstmonth,andthenmonthly ensuringcompletemucosalhealingandpreferably up to 3 months, followed by every 3 months histological remission. In the case of thiopurine thereafter (Agreement 100%). withdrawal, 5‐ASA treatment may assist in main- 3. Patients/families should be instructed to use sun taining remission, and patients should be followed protection with the use of thiopurines and other closely (Agreement 100%). immunosuppressive drugs (Agreement 100%). 12. Oral tacrolimus (initial dose of 0.1–0.2mg/kg/day 4. Givenitsexcellentsafetyprofile,itisreasonable dividedintotwodailydoses)maybeconsideredto to continue 5‐ASA with thiopurines, at least ini- induce remission while bridging to maintenance tially, despite the lack of firm evidence. 5‐ASA therapies inselected patients, including those with inhibits the enzyme TPMT, thus increasing corticosteroid‐dependent or refractory disease. | WINEETAL. 777 Levels should be measured on Days 3–4, with the distribution of inter‐ and intra‐ethnic variants in their dose adjusted accordingly. High target serum treatment population when considering and inter- trough levels (10–15ng/mL) in the first 2 weeks preting pharmacogenomic assays.165 Variants in shouldbesequentiallylowered(initially5–10ng/mL; TPMT and NUDT15 are more prevalent but not ex- eventually to 2–5ng/mL) to avoid toxicity clusive to European and Asian ethnic populations, (Agreement 96%). respectively.166 13. A course of rectal tacrolimus (if available) may be Lowering dosages in patients with low enzyme considered in patients with ulcerative proctitis who activity significantly reduces haematologic adverse are either refractory or intolerant to
