|
KEYWORDS: patients, ibd, agreement, children, paediatric, remission, disease, risk, treatment, adult, dose, therapy, adults, years, use


adverse events were tremors (13%) and hyper- TNF.199 Most affected individuals were males, and tension(16%).InanadultRCT,responserateswere most cases had CD rather than UC. Three HSTCL better in those with higher (10–15ng/mL) versus cases were identified in a prospective study of lower (5–10ng/mL) trough levels (68% vs. 38%, malignancy and mortality in 25 countries over respectively).213 42 months; one patient had UC, and all cases had There is no evidence supporting the use of metho- thiopurine exposure.76 trexate in UC management (outside of its use as a The decision to withdraw thiopurines following concomitant therapy to anti‐TNF, discussed below). sustained remission requires careful consideration. Meta‐analysis of adult RCTs shows no benefit of meth- Limited data guide monotherapy withdrawal. In a sys- otrexate over placebo for inducing or maintaining tematic review and meta‐analysis of available RCT remission in UC.214 In the METEOR double‐ data, withdrawal of thiopurine monotherapy did not blind placebo‐controlled trial of 111 adults with result in a significantly higher risk of relapse within corticosteroid‐dependentUC,methotrexateandplacebo 24monthsoffollow‐upcomparedtoongoingtherapyin had comparable outcomes for corticosteroid‐free UC(RR=1.39,CI:0.85–2.26),thoughUCstudieswere remission and endoscopic healing at Weeks 16 and limited.200 Retrospective adult cohort data reported 24.215 In the subsequent MERIT‐UC trial involving 179 | WINEETAL. 779 patientswithactiveUC,methotrexatewasnobetterthan 7.1.2 | Practice points placebo at preventing relapse, achieving mucosal heal- by Week 48.216 tenance approach should be implemented, starting with 5‐ASA (in mild‐to‐moderate cases), followed by thiopurines, and if both fail, advanc- 7 | BIOLOGICS AND SMALL ing to infliximab (Figure 1). Exceptions to this MOLECULES could include corticosteroid‐refractory disease (not requiring admission for IV corticosteroids), 7.1 | Use of approved biologics in UC corticosteroid‐dependent cases, specific patient safety concerns, ongoing symptoms, or extra- 7.1.1 | Recommendations intestinal findings indicating an anti‐TNF (Agreement 100%). 1. Infliximab should be considered, preferably in com- 2. Screeningforlatenttuberculosiswithacombination bination with an IMM, as the first‐line biologic agent ofpatienthistory,chestX‐ray,tuberculinskintestor inchronicallyactiveorcorticosteroid‐dependentUC, interferon‐gamma release assays (QuantiFERON) uncontrolled by 5‐ASA, and in most cases also is essential before initiating anti‐TNF. The Quanti- thiopurines, for both induction and maintenance of FERON test is preferred in patients under immu- remission [EL1, adults EL1] (Agreement 96%). nosuppressive therapy and in Bacille Calmette‐ 2. Adalimumab could be considered in those with Guérin immunised patients. Screening for hepatitis immunogenic loss of response to infliximab, based B (HBV) and C viruses (HCV), varicella zoster on serum trough concentrations (TCs) and anti- virus (VZV) and human immunodeficiency virus bodies (Figure 4). Adalimumab may also be con- (HIV)
