|
KEYWORDS: patients, ibd, agreement, children, paediatric, remission, disease, risk, treatment, adult, dose, therapy, adults, years, use


B (HBV) and C viruses (HCV), varicella zoster on serum trough concentrations (TCs) and anti- virus (VZV) and human immunodeficiency virus bodies (Figure 4). Adalimumab may also be con- (HIV) when appropriate, is also recommended sidered as a first‐line biologic in non‐severe cases; (Agreement 100%). combination therapy is generally not warranted 3. In most cases, higher doses of infliximab (e.g., [EL2, adults EL2] (Agreement 96%). 10mg/kg/dose at Weeks 0, 2 and 6, followed by 3. Adalimumab has no role in patients with primary, 10mg/kg every 4–8 weeks for maintenance) are pharmacodynamic nonresponse to infliximab [EL5, required to provide the best chance of reaching adults EL5] (Agreement 100%). the desired clinical and endoscopic outcome. The FIGURE 4 TDMdecisiontreeforinfliximabtreatment.NotethatatWeek14orlater,highertroughconcentrations(>8mcg/mL)maybe neededtofullyrespond.*Remeasureanti‐drugantibodiesshortlybeforethenextadministrationtodifferentiatebetweentransientandpersistent antibodies. | 780 WINEETAL. dosecanbesubsequentlyreduced,guidedbyTDM. Current evidence supports the use of anti‐TNF Lower dosing (5mg/kg) can be used in less severe regimensasfirst‐linebiologicsinchildrenwithUC,with cases. In cases in which IV infliximab treatment is infliximab likely more effective than adalimumab, switched to subcutaneous injections, the recom- especially when prescribed in combination with mended dosing schedule (established only for IMMs.222 Nine RCTs that compared anti‐TNF agents >40kg) is 120mg every 2 weeks. See Table 2 for (i.e., infliximab, adalimumab and golimumab) with pla- dosing details (Agreement 100%). ceboinadultUCshowedhigheffectivenessininducing 4. Infliximab is recommended to be used preferably remission and endoscopic healing.9 in combination with an IMM (with the most evi- In the T‐72 paediatric trial, 45/60 (75%) enroled dence in UC being for thiopurines) to reduce the children with ambulatory moderate‐to‐severe UC re- likelihood of developing antibodies to infliximab sponded to infliximab.223 Clinical remission and com- (ATIs) and in thiopurine‐naïve patients, to en- plete endoscopic healing were each achieved in 33% hance effectiveness. Methotrexate may also atWeek8.Doseescalationto10mg/kgwasrequiredin be used to mitigate ATIs. For immunogenicity 44% of the patients during the maintenance phase, prevention, lower doses of azathioprine whichrandomised responderstoq8versus q12weeks (1–1.5mg/kg) may be used. Data on methotrex- infusions. Week 54 remission rate was 38% of ate dose in this setting are scarce, but low total responders in the q8 weeks arm. In other studies, doses of 7.5–12.5mg weekly are reported. higher per/kg dosing of infliximab has been suggested Proactive TDM is recommended, particularly in younger children224,225 and in children with high when infliximab is prescribed as monotherapy inflammatory burden and hypoalbuminemia.226 How- (Agreement 96%). ever, a recent study found that of 52 children with 5. Stopping IMM may be considered after several moderate‐to‐severe UC initiating biologics in
