|
KEYWORDS: patients, ibd, agreement, children, paediatric, remission, disease, risk, treatment, adult, dose, therapy, adults, years, use


inflammatory burden and hypoalbuminemia.226 How- (Agreement 96%). ever, a recent study found that of 52 children with 5. Stopping IMM may be considered after several moderate‐to‐severe UC initiating biologics in clinical months (at least 6) of combination treatment if en- practice, only 40% would have been eligible for inclu- doscopic healing or normal calprotectin levels have sionintheregistrationtrialofthatbiologic.Ofconcern, been reached. Note that infliximab TC may the potentially eligible children had 2.3‐fold higher decrease on average after stopping IMM, and thus likelihood of therapeutic success versus non‐eligible TCs in the higher range (preferably ≥5mcg/mL) children.227 Indeed, different real‐world studies have should be ensured before stopping the IMM shown a pooled long‐term success rate in infliximab‐ (Agreement 100%). treated children with UC of 64%,228 and a 6. Adalimumab should be started at 160mg, followed corticosteroid‐freeremissionof38%and21%at12and by 80mg after 2 weeks and then 40mg every 24 months, respectively.229 A relationship between the otherweekinadolescentswithweight≥40kg;some increased use of anti‐TNF agents and the reduction of patients will require higher maintenance doses. surgery risk for UC children has also been sug- Optimal dosing in younger children with UC has not gested.230 Subcutaneous infliximab is available for been well defined, but body surface area (BSA)‐ inductionandmaintenanceofremission,butpaediatric based dosing could be considered (i.e., induction data are limited, and it remains off‐label for use in with 90mg/m2 followed by 45mg/m2 followed by children.231–233 25mg/m2 every other week, which is the equivalent The double‐blind ENVISION I trial randomised 93 dosing of a typical adult with BSA of 1.73m2) children with moderate‐to‐severe UC into high‐dose (Agreement 100%). versus standard‐dose induction adalimumab.234 not associated with risk of colectomy, as shown in remissionbythePUCAIinthestandard‐andhigh‐dose population‐based UC cohorts in adults217–219 and groups at the end of the maintenance phase was 45% one in paediatrics.220 Therefore, children with UC and 58%, respectively, of Week 8 responders. Adali- should be managed based on the step‐up approach, mumab blood levels were naturally higher in the high‐ meaning that biologics should usually be initiated dose group, and in general, higher doses have been after failure or intolerance to both 5‐ASA and thio- suggested in younger children receiving adalimu- purines. An exception would be corticosteroid‐ mab.235 This suggests that a BSA‐adjusted dosing is refractory/dependent cases, where infliximab can be more appropriate than weight‐based. In a real‐world usedwithoutfailingazathioprinefirst.Inthesecases, retrospective analysis of 32 children with UC failing or stepping down to thiopurines may be considered intolerant to infliximab, adalimumab induced once deep, sustained remission
