|
KEYWORDS: patients, ibd, agreement, children, paediatric, remission, disease, risk, treatment, adult, dose, therapy, adults, years, use


required to achieve endo- period. Studies report conflicting results regarding the scopic healing (Agreement 100%). risk of anti‐TNF and the risk for melanoma and non‐ melanoma skin cancer.256,257 A retrospective cohort study from Canada among DEVELOPisaprospectivepost‐marketingindustry‐ 125 children with UC showed better remission rates initiated safety registry for paediatric IBD, which after an intensified infliximab induction scheme.226 | WINEETAL. 783 Typically, higher drug concentrations are required 7.3.2 | Practice points during the induction phase as compared to the main- tenance phase, for children who weigh <40kg, and 1. A combination of two biologic agents or a biologic especially <30kg,259 and for endoscopic remission agentwithsmallmoleculesasdual‐targetedtherapy compared with clinical remission. The Week 6 TC (DTT) may be a therapeutic option in highly refrac- required for endoscopic remission at 6 months is tory UC. Since the safety of this strategy is not es- >15μg/mL (see Supporting Information S5: Table S6). tablished,itshouldonlybepracticedinexperienced Reactive TDM is used in patients who have not centres after standard treatments have been ex- achievedremissionorlostresponse(eitherclinicallyor hausted. The potential efficacy should be weighed byusing biomarkers) duringthemaintenance stage.In against the risk of possible serious adverse events thesescenarios,itisadvisedtomeasuretheinfliximab (Agreement 96%). concentration before the next drug administration (trough). Proactive TDM involves measuring infliximab concentrations when patients are in remission, espe- 7.3.3 | Vedolizumab cially at protocolised time points (e.g., post‐induction andafterafixedtimeperiodontherapy).WhileTDMis In the GEMINI‐1 trial exploring vedolizumab in adult helpful, it is not available in all countries. Dose adap- patients with UC,266 47% of the patients responded to tations are then aimed at achieving the target drug two‐dose induction (300mg per dose) by Week 6. concentration. When the infliximab concentration is The 52‐week remission rates among Week 6 below the target range, a dose increase or shortening responders were 42% (q8 weeks interval) and 45% of the infusion interval is warranted. For infliximab, a (q4 weeks interval). Increased dosing frequency to 25% reduction of the dosing interval is generally as every 4 weeks was beneficial in those losing response effective as a dose increase to 10mg/kg.260 to8‐weeklydosing.267Thereisnoevidencethatadding Proactive TDM provides added value in patients at IMMs to vedolizumab is superior to mono- risk for drug underexposure, as defined above, who therapy.268,269 In a meta‐analysis,270 bio‐naïvety was would require higher drug doses. Obesity may also associatedwithahigherprobabilityofclinicalremission increase drug clearance, possibly related to greater at Week 52 in UC (RR=1.32), with 40% and 64% bio‐ proteolytic capacity, infliximab distribution in adipose naïvepatientsachievedclinicalremissionatWeeks14 tissue, and pro‐inflammatory effects
