|
KEYWORDS: patients, ibd, agreement, children, paediatric, remission, disease, risk, treatment, adult, dose, therapy, adults, years, use


series of 20 ado- lescents with IBD treated with upadacitinib, 7.4 | Stopping biologics corticosteroid‐freeremissionrateatWeek12was75%, and 80% with CRP normalisation.89 A multicentre Discontinuation of anti‐TNF therapy in paediatric UC paediatric study from the Porto IBD Group evaluated after reaching ‘deep remission’ is generally discour- the effectiveness and safety of upadacitinib in 100 aged due to a high risk of relapse. On the other hand, childrenandadolescentswithrefractoryUCandIBD‐U. de‐escalating anti‐TNF to standard dosing in patients 56% of the children, respectively. Combined viously attempted, is more frequently employed.307,308 corticosteroid‐free clinical remission and faecal cal- Approximately 30%–50% of anti‐TNF de‐escalated protectin <150mcg/g was reported in 18/46 (39%) patients are likely to relapse within a year.309 The risk 37 children; the most frequent were hyperlipidaemia biologic and endoscopic remission.310 Disease mon- (N=13), acne (N=12) and infections (N=10, 5 of itoring following de‐escalation should include regular whom with herpes viruses).300 clinicalevaluation(PUCAIandTUMMY‐UC)aswellas Ozanimod, a selective S1P receptor modulator, objectivedisease assessment(i.e., CRP,haemoglobin was more effective than placebo as induction and and faecal calprotectin). Any consideration for de‐ maintenancetherapyinadultpatientswithmoderately escalation of anti‐TNFs or other biologics must be tai- to severely active UC.301 There are no data regarding lored,accountingforrisksandconsequencesofaflare the use of Ozanimod in paediatric UC. Etrasimod, and patients' preferences. another S1P modulator, has been licenced by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for use in UC in children aged 16 and over after inclusion of a small 8 | OTHER THERAPIES numberintheinitialclinicalstudies.TheELEVATEUC programme demonstrated superiority of Etrasimod 8.1 | Recommendations over placebo at the end of induction (Week 12) and Week 52.302 1. Faecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) should notberoutinelyusedinpaediatricUC[EL2,adults EL1] (Agreement 100%). 7.3.8 | Dual Targeted Therapy (DTT) 2. Antibiotics should not be routinely used for induction or maintenance of remission of ambu- A combination of biologic agents or a biologic agent latory paediatric UC [EL1A] (Agreement 96%). with small molecules as DTT may be a possible ther- 3. In children with UC, vitamin D serum level should apeutic option for refractory IBD.303 While DTT may be monitored at least annually, and adequate the rates of endoscopic remission were low. Retro- satisfactory concentration (at least >50nmol/L) spective reports offer some support for this option,304 [EL3] (Agreement 100%). and a recent adult RCT, combining guselkumab and 4.Curcumin,indigonaturalis,saffron,myrrh,omega‐ golimumab, did show benefit to initiating two biologic 3, aloe vera or glutamine supplementation should | 786 WINEETAL. not be used as a single agent for induction and and adults (Agreement 100%). maintenance of remission
