|
KEYWORDS: patients, ibd, agreement, children, paediatric, remission, disease, risk, treatment, adult, dose, therapy, adults, years, use


UC.345 patients. While the study was stopped due to While the evidence on a correlation between an futility, the data available showed that UCED optimised vitamin D level and IBD‐related out- alone achieved non‐significantly higher rates of comesislimited,asatisfactoryvitaminDlevelof clinicalremissionandsignificantlyhigherratesof >50ng/L should be aimed for in each child to Surprisingly,thearmoftheUCEDplusFMTwas growth potential. similar to FMT alone. More data are needed to Curcumin, a natural phenol found in the understand the effectiveness of UCED in UC. large‐leafed Indian herb turmeric (Curcuma In summary, diets appear to have the poten- longa), is a lipophilic substance with anti‐ tialtoaffectdiseasecourseandmaybeusedas inflammatory properties and low and variable treatment in UC in the future, however the absorption in the gastrointestinal tract.346 Its | 788 WINEETAL. mechanism ofactioninvolves the modulation of treat and paediatric settings.358 GMA also requires variouscellsignallingpathways,producinganti‐ central venous access but may still be considered in inflammatory, antitumour, antioxidant and im- childrenwithUCwhodonotrespondorloseresponseto munomodulatory effects.317 Studies on its conventional treatments, but more studies are needed potential benefits in treating patients with UC before formal recommendations can be made. are limited. Nevertheless, early findings from RCTs are promising and prompt further research.347–350 While no recommendations on 9 | IBD‐U the use of curcumin in mild‐to‐moderate UC have been made by the AGA to date,346 the 9.1 | Recommendations FDA states that curcumin is ‘generally recog- nizedassafe’andhaslimitedtoxiceffects,with 1.TreatmentofIBD‐Upatientsshouldbroadlyfollow a daily intake of curcumin of up to 3mg/kg/day that of UC patients of a similar disease severity recommended.317 Neither the formulation nor [EL4, adult EL4] (Agreement 100%). the dosage of curcumin is established for chil- dren, but based on adult RCTs, curcumin may be considered for induction of remission, in 9.2 | Practice points patients with incomplete or loss‐of‐response to mesalamine.348 1.AdiagnosisofIBD‐Ushouldonlybemadeaftera Indigo naturalis is another traditional herbal complete assessment, including ileocolonoscopy, remedy that has been shown in recent years to gastroscopy and small bowel imaging be effective in inducing remission in patients (Agreement 100%). with active UC, either given alone or in combi- 2. A lower threshold for disease reassessment nation with curcumin.350–353 A recent system- should be adopted in patients with IBD‐U before atic review by Kakdiya et al.,354 on indigo treatment change (Agreement 100%). response rate of 0.796 (95% CI: 0.747–0.838, reasonable to use the PUCAI score to assess 0.668 (0.488–0.809, I2=85.2%), suggesting its of IBD‐U, clinically, to UC (Agreement 100%). effectiveness. Except for one reversible pul- 4. A multi‐item algorithm should be used to stan- monary
