|
KEYWORDS: patients, ibd, agreement, children, paediatric, remission, disease, risk, treatment, adult, dose, therapy, adults, years, use


for iron deficiency anaemia where 60% reclassifies when followed for up to 20 years (IDA) and iron deficiency (ID) is recommended ev- (equallytoCDandUC).Interestingly,thosewhoremained ery6–12monthsandfollowingatreatmentcoursein IBD‐Uhadamorebenigncourse(77%1–5‐yearremission all UC patients (Figure 5) [EL3, adults EL3] rate vs. 28% with reclassification), likely also reflecting a (Agreement 100%). needformoreinvestigation,leadingtoreclassification,with 2. Oral iron (OI) is recommended for treatment of IDA active symptoms.365 except if anaemia is moderate‐to‐severe, there is The PIBD‐Classes criteria that were validated on significantdisease activity,or there isintolerance to a large data set of 749 patients with colonic IBD uti- two or more OI supplements; intravenous iron (IVI) lise a diagnostic algorithm of 23 features to differ- is preferred in these situations (Figure 6) [EL2, entiatebetweenpatientswithUC,atypicalUC,IBDU, adults EL1] (Agreement 100%). Crohn's colitis and ileal/ileocolonic CD (Supporting Information S5: Table S7).16 While this classification wassomewhatchallengedbyanotherstudy,showing 10.2 | Practice points 81% concordance between pre‐colectomy PIBD‐ classes‐based diagnosis and post‐colectomy 1. Given the complexity in distinguishing IDA from pathology‐based diagnosis (Fleiss kappa 0.48),366 anaemia of chronic disease, in patients with micro‐ definingIBD‐Uismorecomplex.Conceptually,IBD‐U ornormocyticanaemiawithoutinvolvementofother is not a misclassification between CD and UC but a blood cell lines, an iron trial (usually given intra- true overlap syndrome on the range between the two venously) should be considered in parallel with UC diseases. Therefore, the diagnosis of IBD‐U, just like treatment/re‐evaluation in cases of ongoing inflam- thediagnosisofCDorUC,cannotbebasedsolelyon mation.Non‐anaemicIDshouldbesupplementedin colonic pathology; IBD‐U is established based on a the same way as IDA (Agreement 100%). radiographic and endoscopic (upper and lower tract) moglobin with iron therapy (<1g/dL within 2 weeks features. or 2g/dL within 4 weeks). OI intolerance is defined In most investigator‐initiated paediatric studies, pa- as the inability to tolerate at least two different OI tients with IBD‐U are cropped together with patients formulations.AswitchtoIVIshouldbeconsideredin with UC, preventing accurate evaluation of long‐term both situations (Agreement 100%). IBD‐U outcomes; they are usually assigned as an ex- 3. OI should be administered as a single daily dose or clusion criterion in most industry‐designed PIBD stud- on alternate/days (to reduce adverse events and ies. In a cohort of 537 children with colonic IBD, improve absorption), usually for at least 12 weeks. including260IBD‐U,367therapeuticregimensforIBD‐U Preparation choice should be guided by patients' and UC were broadly similar, with the exception of preference, gastrointestinal tolerability and local lower usage of corticosteroids in IBD‐U. IBD‐U was availability (Agreement 100%). more likely to be mild at follow‐up, with lower rates of 4. IVIpreparationsshouldbechosenaccordingtolocal surgery than in patients with UC and
