|
KEYWORDS: patients, ibd, agreement, children, paediatric, remission, disease, risk, treatment, adult, dose, therapy, adults, years, use


atitis (AIH) [EL4, adults EL4] (Agreement 100%). tinent points common in children. Some EIMs are 4. Sustained elevation of liver enzymes in the pres- associated with intestinal disease activity (i.e., er- ence of cholestasis should be investigated with ythema nodosum [EN], peripheral arthritis), whereas serologic assessment for autoimmune sclerosing others occur independently (i.e., PG, uveitis, ankylos- cholangitis (AISC) and ultrasound followed by ingspondylitisandPSC).446Paediatricregistries447–449 magnetic resonance‐cholangiopancreatography indicatethatoneormoreEIMsarepresentatdiagnosis (MRCP), in addition to liver biopsy when in 6%–17% of children with UC, especially those older indicated (see practice point); endoscopic retro- than 5 years, with an increase to almost 50% with grade cholangiopancreatography is reserved for disease evolution,450 and more with extensive colitis. therapeutic interventions [EL3, adults EL3] Joint disease in IBD may be axial (sacro‐ileitis or (Agreement 96%). ankylosingspondylitis)orperipheral.Twomainpatterns of IBD‐associated peripheral arthritis have been described. The classic type 1 arthropathy (oligoarticular 11.2 | Practice points asymmetric arthritis affecting less than five joints, and involving preferentially large joints) is often associated 1. Treating both axial and peripheral arthritis requires with active IBD, whereas the type 2 (polyarticular sym- close collaboration with paediatric rheumatologists metric involvement affecting small joints of both hands (Agreement 100%). withpain, swellingoreffusion and persistingformonths 2. The diagnosis of axial spondylo‐arthritis or sacroi- or years) is largely independent of IBD activity. In the liitisisbasedontypicalclinicalsymptomsandsigns first case, treatment should be directed at inducing such as progressive lower back, gluteal, and thigh remissionofluminaldisease,whereasintype2,therapy pain, combined with radiological abnormalities should cover both diseases. Sulfasalazine can be con- (most often seen on MRI). In these cases, anti‐TNF sidered as first‐line therapy when peripheral arthritis should be the first‐line therapy (Agreement 100%). coexists with UC, and anti‐TNF could be considered 3. Ifrequiredforthetreatmentofarticularinflammation, second‐line therapy.451 NSAIDs are associated with nonsteroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may gastrointestinalinjury,butthelinkbetweentheiruseand be used for a short course and at low doses to IBDflareisstilldebated. Arecentmeta‐analysisdidnot minimise the risk of aggravating intestinal inflamma- find a consistent association between its use and risk tory activity. Although selective cyclooxygenase‐2 of CD or UC exacerbation.452 Therefore, these drugs inhibitors are known to have fewer gastrointestinal areconsideredsafeifprescribedforashortcourseand side effects, there is no evidence that their use is at low doses for peripheral arthritis. Axial joint disease safer as compared with other NSAIDs at low doses (sacro‐ileitis or ankylosing spondylitis) causes lower (Agreement 100%). backpainandcanbeverylimiting.Anti‐TNFremainsthe 4. No medication has been proven to reduce the time first‐line therapy of axial IBD‐associated spondyloar- from PSC diagnosis to liver transplant or the
