|
KEYWORDS: patients, ibd, agreement, children, paediatric, remission, disease, risk, treatment, adult, dose, therapy, adults, years, use


spondylitis) causes lower (Agreement 100%). backpainandcanbeverylimiting.Anti‐TNFremainsthe 4. No medication has been proven to reduce the time first‐line therapy of axial IBD‐associated spondyloar- from PSC diagnosis to liver transplant or the thropathy.445 As etanercept can cause paradoxical development of cholangiocarcinoma. The benefit of gastrointestinal inflammation, its use should be avoi- ursodeoxycholicacid(UDCA)remainsquestionable, ded.453Vedolizumabandustekinumab,aswellassmall and if used, doses should be preferably low molecules, are not recommended in IBD‐associated (15–20mg/kg/day). Oral vancomycin may be con- axialspondyloarthropathy,astheresultsoftheavailable sidered (50mg/kg/day in three divided doses studies are still conflicting. Recent adult data support a <30kg, and 500mg three times/day ≥30kg) for role for JAK inhibitors in peripheral and axial 12 weeks, but long‐term data are lacking spondyloarthropathy.454 (Agreement 100%). A wide spectrum of concomitant liver diseases can 5. In children with IBD and PSC with features of AIH be present in paediatric IBD, mostly related to auto- corticosteroids and azathioprine are effective in sup- immune features. Classical differentiation among AIH, pressingimmune‐mediatedhepatitis(Agreement92%). PSC, and AISC or PSC/AIH‐overlap syndrome (with 6. Treatment of skin lesions in paediatric IBD pa- biochemical, serological and histological manifesta- tients (either specific, reactive, associated or tionscommontobothPSCandAIH)hasbeenrecently treatment‐related),mayrequiretheinvolvementof reviewed.22 PSC is a cholestatic disease of unknown | WINEETAL. 793 aetiology where chronic inflammation of bile ducts (31% female; mean age at diagnosis 11.9±2.8 years), leads to progressive destruction of the biliary tree. followedupforameanof6.8±3.3years,suggestedthat specific inflammatory phase of PSC, frequently mani- reported, particularly if diagnosed early. The authors festing earlier, most notably in younger patients.455 recommendpromptassessmentforPSC,includingliver Moreover,diseaseoutcomesremainsimilartothoseof biopsy and biliary imaging, when liver function abnor- a more classical PSC phenotype in later life. Combi- malities are detected.475 MRCP remains the most nation of PSC and IBD, in particular UC, constitutes a appropriate imaging modality for diagnosing PSC in well‐known disease constellation. It is estimated that children. A pattern of irregular bile ducts, with zones of IBD is present in 60%–80% of adults with PSC and, narrowing and dilatation, is characteristic of PSC.476 conversely, PSC is diagnosed in 2%–14% of IBD In adults with PSC, UDCA has been largely used patients.456–460 Studies investigating the presence of based on studies showing improvement of serum PSC in IBD patients, irrespective of elevated liver markers of cholestasis.477,478 However, no significant function tests or symptoms, report the highest preva- improvementoftransplant‐free survivalrateshasbeen lence figures (7%–14%).461 PSC prevalence in paedi- foundwithlow(13–15mg/kg),moderate(17–23mg/kg) atric IBD has been described to be 1.6% at 10 years or very high (28–30mg/kg) daily doses, when com- after diagnosis,448 but
