|
KEYWORDS: patients, ibd, agreement, children, paediatric, remission, disease, risk, treatment, adult, dose, therapy, adults, years, use


intestinal biopsies aimed at abnormal areas identified by newer activity, although other causes should be excluded. In colonoscopic techniques (chromoendoscopy, confocal EN associated with IBD activity, the primary aim is endomicroscopy) are recommended.471 The optimal control of the underlying intestinal activity. In very follow‐up method is still debatable.472 In a multicentre painfulcases,ashortcourseoforalcorticosteroidscan report of 781 children with PSC (4277 person‐years of induce rapid resolution, as well as advanced therapies follow‐up), overall event free survival was 70% at (TNF‐α antagonists, ustekinumab or vedolizumab), 5 years and 53% at 10 years but PSC‐IBD was asso- whoseefficacyisprobablyrelatedtoeffectivecontrolof ciated with a favourable prognosis; cholangiocarcino- inflammation.497 PG, characterised by the appearance maoccurredin1%.473Inanotherregistry,mediantime of pustules or erythematous papules and plaques, to complications was similar in both paediatric and often at a site of trauma, is the second most common adult cohorts.474 A recent study evaluating 82 reactivecutaneousEIMandisthemostdebilitating.PG paediatric IBD patients with sclerosing cholangitis mayparallelIBDactivityorrunanindependentcourse, | 794 WINEETAL. and even appear before IBD onset. Rapid ulceration UC.503–505 Nutritional status seems to have a greater with dermal necrosis leads to painful, deep ulcers with impact on bone mineral density than corticosteroid undermined, irregular violaceous borders and a puru- therapy.506 lent but sterile base. PG is more common in females, Black Africans, and those with a positive family history of UC. First‐line early treatment with TNF‐α antago- 12.2 | Psychosocial support, nists, particularly infliximab, is recommended in the adherence to therapy and transitional care adultECCOguidelines,445particularlyinseverecases. Other treatments include systemic corticosteroids, ci- 12.2.1 | Recommendations closporin, ustekinumab, dapsone, metronidazole and tetracyclines,althoughthereareveryscarcedatainthe 1. Adolescents should be included in a structured tran- literature in paediatric cases. Systemic corticosteroids sitiontoadultcareprogramme,whichcanbeadapted are the first‐line treatment for Sweet syndrome, with to the local organisation of the paediatric and adult TNF‐α antagonists indicated in corticosteroid‐ facilities [EL4, adults EL4] (Agreement 100%). dependent or refractory cases. Regarding hidradenitis suppurativa, topical treatment or systemic treatment (antibiotics and dapsone) may be used in mild‐to‐ 12.2.2 | Practice points moderate cases, adalimumab being recommended as first‐line treatment for severe disease, with early 1. Paediatric IBD centres should offer psychosocial dose intensification frequently required. Other man- support to screen for and address anxiety, depres- agement options include infliximab, ustekinumab or sion and low resiliency, to improve daily functioning surgery.445,498 and self‐efficacy, based on available resources (Agreement 100%). 2. Treatmentadherenceshouldberegularlyevaluated 12 | SUPPORTIVE CARE IN UC by patient interviews, but also assisted by serum medication level monitoring and prescription refill 12.1 |
