|
KEYWORDS: patients, ibd, agreement, children, paediatric, remission, disease, risk, treatment, adult, dose, therapy, adults, years, use


without, and in those | WINEETAL. 795 with active versus inactive IBD.521–526 Psychosocial be deferred in pre‐pubertal children while in- support should screen and address this and include dividualisingbasedonriskfactors(diseaseduration, supportive strategies to improve resiliency. Physical familyhistory,severityofthediseaseovertime,and activity, specifically yoga, has been found to reduce disease extent), since CRC is extremely rare under stress levels and improve IBD symptom management the age of 12 years, even in the presence of PSC in adolescents.527 (Agreement 100%). Symptoms of anxiety, depression and poor QoL 4. Childrenwho start CRC surveillancebefore theage have also been associated with worse treatment of 18 should have surveillance intervals thereafter adherence, as high as 90% in adolescents with IBD, determined as per adult CRC surveillance guide- Non‐adherenceishighestinadolescence,aswellasin 5. Characterisation, therapeutic management and thosetakingmedicationmorethanonceaday.530First follow‐up of colonic dysplasia in children with IBD morning void urine 5‐ASA tests and serum 5‐ASA should largely follow guidance outlined for the adult metabolites can be used to assess adherence.183,531 IBD population. However, as dysplasia is such a Combining education and behaviour modification, or rare occurrence in children, cases with dysplasia utilising digital self‐management tools, has shown should be discussed between a paediatric gastro- success in improving adherence.532,533 Adherence is enterologist, an expert endoscopist and a histo- QoL.105,534–536 6. PatientswithUCandPSChaveahighlifetimeriskof hepatobiliary malignancy, with MRCP‐based surveil- lance shown to reduce mortality in the adult popula- 12.3 | Cancer surveillance in UC tion. However, the risk of hepatobiliary cancer onset in childhood is low, with the pre‐puberty risk ex- 12.3.1 | Recommendations tremely low. Currently, there is insufficient evidence to recommend routine MRCP surveillance in paedi- 1. Children with UC aged 12 years and over with a atric patients with IBD‐PSC (Agreement 92%). disease duration of greater than 8 years should be considered for surveillance for CRC and dysplasia A recent survey of Dutch paediatric gastroenterol- [EL4, Adults EL1] (Agreement 96%). ogists demonstrated profound variability in paediatric 2. ChildrenwithUCandPSCshouldbeconsideredfor dysplasia surveillance practice, including perceived surveillance for CRC and dysplasia starting at age indication, surveillance interval and endoscopic 12,regardlessofdiseaseduration[EL4,AdultsEL3] approach,537 with 70% expressing need for clearer (Agreement 100%). guidance. There is no doubt that paediatric‐onset IBD 3. When possible, surveillance for CRC and dysplasia is an established lifetime risk factor for CRC.73,538,539 should entail a colonoscopy using dye‐based chro- Meta‐analysis data, from five population‐based studies moendoscopy, virtual electronic chromoendoscopy comprising 283,540 patient years, showed a 2.4‐fold or high‐definition white light endoscopy completed increased risk of all cancers with
