7478 8ournalofNeurology,Neurosurgery, andPsychiatry 1994;57:748-750
KEYWORDS: patients, mellitus, non-ketotic, hyperglycaemia, diabetes, mmol, blood, glucose, diabetes mellitus, brain, patient, chorea, hyper, caused, blood glucose


ofChina. deficits and stroke-like syndromes, and hallu- was 332 mmol/kg. No ketones were detected. Received13August 1993 cination." Hyperosmolar non-ketotic hyper- She was dehydrated. Insulin was given intra- andinrevisedform glycaemic syndrome (HNKS), often an acute venously and symptoms disappeared within 25October1993. Accepted 12November1993 complication of diabetes mellitus in older two days. At this time her blood glucose con- centration was 13-8 mmol/I and blood osmo- lality was 290 mmol/kg. A brain CT showed cortical atrophy and calcification of bilateral Table 1 Clinicaldataofthreepatientswithhemiballism-hemichorea causedby basalganglion. hyperosmolarnon-ketotichyperglycaemia No Age(y)/ Bloodsugar Osmolality Siteofinvoluntary Sex (mmolll) (mmollkg) movement DMhistoryBrainCTfindings PATIENT 2 Patient 2, a 78 year old man with a history of 1 74/F 305 322 Leftupperlimb - Corticalatrophy hypertension but without diabetes mellitus, CalcicationofBG** 2 78/M 61-4 367 Rightupperlimb - Corticalatrophy had polydipsia, polyuria, and weight loss, Face accompanied for two weeks by involuntary 3 75/F 36-3 390 Rightupperlimb + Lowerdensityinright BG,periventricularregion writhing movements over his face and right forearm. Examination revealed uncontrolled DM=diabetesmellitus;BG=basalganglion Hemiballism-hemichorea andnon-ketotichyperglycaemia 749 and purposeless choreiform movements, initial presenting symptoms ofdiabetes melli- occasionally accompanied by rapid uncon- tus are rare; only Hann et al'4 and Sanfield et trolled flinging ballistic movements of his al'0 have reported cases ofgeneralised chorea right arm. Involuntary twitching and grimac- andhemichorea. ing ofthe right side ofhis face were also seen. A total ofnine cases ofhemiballism-hemi- Neurological examination was otherwise nor- chorea caused by non-ketotic hyperglycaemia mal. His blood glucose concentration was have been reported, mostly in older women 61-4 mmol/l and the osmolality was 367 (table 2). Oestrogen can decrease the mmol/kg. No ketonaemia was noted. He was dopamine (DA) function of the nigrostriatal rehydrated and treated with insulin and system, and subsequently increase the density antibiotics intravenously. The next morning, of the DA receptors.'5 16 Concentrations of the involuntary movements had disappeared, oestrogen decrease in women after the but asterixis of both hands was seen later. menopause, which contributes to the devel- Treatment with insulin was continued, and opment of supersensitivity in the striatal DA the patient's blood glucose concentration was receptor. Studies have also shown the con- controlled around [DATE].9 mmol/l. Three centration ofDAinthe striatum and substan- days later, the asterixis also disappeared. A tia nigra to be normal or slightly increased in CTofthe brain showed only cortical atrophy. patients with Huntington's chorea,'7 and that hemichorea can be suppressed by neuroleptic PATIENT 3 drugs.418 We postulate that DAhypersensitiv- Patient 3 was a 75
