7478 8ournalofNeurology,Neurosurgery, andPsychiatry 1994;57:748-750
KEYWORDS: patients, mellitus, non-ketotic, hyperglycaemia, diabetes, mmol, blood, glucose, diabetes mellitus, brain, patient, chorea, hyper, caused, blood glucose


CTofthe brain showed only cortical atrophy. patients with Huntington's chorea,'7 and that hemichorea can be suppressed by neuroleptic PATIENT 3 drugs.418 We postulate that DAhypersensitiv- Patient 3 was a 75 yearoldwomanwith ahis- ity in postmenopausal women is the reason tory of diabetes mellitus and hypertension. for their predisposition for developing this She suddenly developed a right sided weak- type of hyperkinesia with non-ketotic hyper- ness with bouts ofdrowsiness. Hemichorea of glycaemia. her right arm was also noted. Neurological In hyperglycaemia, cellular energy demand examination showed her to be drowsy with a shifts towards anaerobic metabolism, which right hemiparesis. The deep tendon reflexes inhibits the function of the tricarboxylic acid were symmetrically reduced, with flexorplan- cycle and causes the brain to metabolise y- tar responses. Her blood glucose was 36-6 aminobutyric acid as an alternative energy mmol/l and estimated blood osmolality was source.'9 Patients with ketosis would have an 390mmol/kg. She was rehydrated and abundant source of acetoacetate from which treated with insulin and antibiotics. The next y-aminobutyric acid might be resynthesised, morning, the hyperkinesia and weakness had but non-ketotic patients would be rapidly resolved. Her blood glucose concentration depleted. In animal studies, y-aminobutyric was 16'4 mmol/l and blood osmolality was acid antagonists can cause a lesion in the sub- 329 mmol/kg. A brain CT revealed an old thalamic nucleus, inducing contralateral infarct lesion in the left basal ganglion, with hemichorea.20 We therefore propose that the lowdensity in theperiventricular region. depletion ofy-aminobutyric acid in the brain mayplay an important part in the pathogene- sis of the non-ketotic hyperglycaemia, and Discussion HNKS inducedhemiballism-hemichorea. Hemiballism-hemichorea caused by non- Most cases of hemiballism-hemichorea ketotic hyperglycaemia was first reported by associated with non-ketotic hyperglycaemia Bedwell in 1960. He described a 65 year old have occurred in elderly patients with hyper- womanwho developedballistic movements in tension or diabetes mellitus. Hypertension all four limbs during three episodes ofhyper- and diabetes mellitus greatly increase the risk glycaemia.7 Patients with hyperkinetic move- ofstroke, as well as increase the incidence of ments caused by non-ketotic hyperglycaemia lacunar infarction of the brain.2' Deep lacu- have been reported by Rector etal,8 Tortoritis nar infarctions may not be visible on CT, so et al,9 and Sanfield et al,'0 but none of the that coexisting lacunar infarction in the con- patients had HNKS. In our study, two ofthe tralateral basal ganglion might be the cause of three cases (patients 2 and 3) satisfied the
