NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: liver, cancer, prostate, flutamide, prostate cancer, pubmed, pmid, pubmed pmid, cyproterone, alt, hepatotoxicity, injury, liver injury, antiandrogens, induced


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Antiandrogens. [Updated 2014 Jun 10]. Bookshelf URL: Antiandrogens Updated: June 10, 2014. OVERVIEW The antiandrogens are medications that act by binding to intracellular androgen receptors, preventing the effec ts of endogenous androgens on target tissues such as testes, hair follicles, hypothalamus, pituitary, ovaries and prostate gland. The antiandrogens are used for a variety of hyperandrogenic states such as acne, hirsutism, and paraphilias, but their major use is in therapy of prostate cancer. Chemically, antiandrogens are classified into steroidal (such as cyproterone acetate) and nonsteroidal (including flutamide, nilutamide and bicalutamide). largely because of its potential for hepatotoxicity. In contrast, flutamide, nilutamide and bicalutamide are now approved and in general clinical use for therapy of prostate cancer. The largest and longest clinical experience and is also used in hyperandrogenic states including acne and hirsutism. Nilutamide has been extensively studied and is indicated for use in combination with surgical castration for the treatment of metastatic prostate cancer and is recommended to be started at the time of orchiectomy. Unlike flutamide, nilutamide has not been evaluated in detail as therapy of hirsutism or acne. Bicalutamide, the most recent antiandrogen to be approved for use in the United States, is also used in therapy of prostate cancer, but has not been approved for use in nonmalignant hyperandrogenic states. All three nonsteroidal antiandrogens have been linked to instances of liver injury. Minor asymptomatic elevations in serum aminotransferase levels occur in 10% to 62% of patients on long term antiandrogen therapy, and prominent elevations (3 to 5 times the ULN) in 1% to 10%, the rates being somewhat higher for fluta mide than nilutamide or bicalutamide. Instances of acute hepatitis with jaundice and even acute liver failure have been reported with all three antiandrogens. While most reports have related to flutamide, this may be due to its more extensive use. The rate of clinically apparent acute liver injury during prolonged antiandrogen therapy is reported to be as high as 9%, but is probably in the range of 0.1% to 1%. Screening for serum aminotransferase levels during the first few months of therapy is often recommended, but the effectiveness of this approach in preventing serious liver injury and death has not been shown. Abiraterone is a more recently developed antiandrogen used to treat prostate cancer. Abiraterone is a steroid inhibitor of CYP17,
