e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: esophageal, patient, motility, hrim, esophageal motility, esophagus, dci, bolus, disorder, case, disorders, transit, peristalsis, bolus transit, patients


e-ISSN 1941-5923 © Am J Case Rep, 2018; 19: 998-1003 DOI: Received: 2018.03.01 High Resolution Impedance Manometry: Accepted: 2018.05.29 Published: 2018.08.23 A Necessity or Luxury in Esophageal Motility Disorder? Study Design A E 1 Ian Chik Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia D 2 Chai Soon Ngiu Statistical Analysis C Cheras, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Literature Search F Funds Collection G Corresponding Author: Ian Chik, e-mail: Conflict of interest: None declared Case series Patient: Female, 71 • Male, 48 • Female, 44 • Female, 62 Final Diagnosis: Esophageal motility disorder Symptoms: Dysphagia Medication: — Clinical Procedure: Manometry Specialty: Gastroenterology and Hepatology Objective: Rare disease Background: The esophagus can be affected by a variety of disorders that may be primary or secondary to another patholog- ic process, but the resulting symptoms are usually not pathognomonic for a specific problem, making diagno- sis and further management somewhat challenging. High resolution impedance manometry (HRiM) has estab- lished itself as a valuable tool in evaluating esophageal motility disorder. HRiM is superior in comparison with conventional water perfused manometric recordings in delineating and tracking the movement of function- ally defined contractile elements of the esophagus and its sphincters, and in distinguishing the luminal pres- surization of spastic esophageal contraction from a trapped bolus. Making these distinctions can help to iden- tify achalasia, distal esophageal spasm, functional obstruction, and subtypes according to the latest Chicago Classification of Esophageal Motility Disorders version 3.0. Case Report: We report a case series of 4 patients that presented with dysphagia; and with the ancillary help of the HRiM, we are able to diagnose esophageal motility disorder and evaluate its pathogenetic mechanism. This approach aids in tailoring each management individually and avoiding disastrous mismanagement. Conclusions: From the series of case reports, we believe that HRiM has an important role to play in deciding appropriate management for patients presenting with esophageal motility disorders, and HRiM should be performed be- fore deciding on management. MeSH Keywords: Diagnostic Errors • Esophageal Motility Disorders • Manometry Full-text PDF: 2307 1 4 14 998 This work is licensed under Creative Common Attribution- Indexed in: [PMC] [PubMed] [Emerging Sources Citation Index (ESCI)] NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0) [Web of Science by Clarivate] Boo H.S. et al.: HRiM in esophageal motility disorder © Am J Case Rep, 2018; 19: 998-1003 Background Case Reports Esophageal motility disorders (EMDs) are uncommon but vary This case series consists of 3 females and 1 male.
