e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: esophageal, patient, motility, hrim, esophageal motility, esophagus, dci, bolus, disorder, case, disorders, transit, peristalsis, bolus transit, patients


disorder © Am J Case Rep, 2018; 19: 998-1003 Background Case Reports Esophageal motility disorders (EMDs) are uncommon but vary This case series consists of 3 females and 1 male. The mean in etiology as it can be primarily a disease of the esophagus, age was 56 years (range of 44 to 71 years). All of the patients or it can be a secondary from another systemic disease. EMDs had symptoms of dysphagia and regurgitation. Two patients usually present with dysphagia, chest pain, or both, due to the had HRiM prior to surgical decision and the other 2 patients loss of esophageal coordination of contraction, or due to in- had surgery prior to the introduction of HRiM to our center correct pressure contractions (too high or too weak, render- on July 2014. ing ineffective contractions). Common EMDs include achala- sia, spastic esophageal motility disorders (diffuse esophageal [PATIENT] spasm/DES, nutcracker esophagus, and hypertensive lower esophageal sphincter), non-specific esophageal motility dis- A 71-year-old Indian female with underlying rheumatoid ar- order (inefficient esophageal motility disorder), and second- thritis was diagnosed with gastroesophageal reflux disease ary esophageal motility disorders (secondary to scleroderma, (GERD) with dysphagia and was on prolonged proton pump diabetes mellitus, alcohol consumption, psychiatric disorders inhibitor (PPI). Despite treatment, she remained symptomatic and presbyesophagus). Given the variation of etiology, each and was referred for feasibility of fundoplication. An esopha- disease variation requires specific tailored management ac- gogastroduodenoscopy (OGDS) done on July 2014 showed hi- cording to its full diagnosis, least patient be given substan- atal hernia and a moderately dilated esophagus with limited dard and unsuccessful treatment. peristalsis. She also had reflux esophagitis (Los Angeles (LA) Classification Grade B). HRiM was done as part of her pre-fun- The usual workup for patient with suspicion of EMD is clas- doplication workup, which revealed aperistaltic esophagus sically barium esophagraphy, supplemented with water-per- [median distal contractile integral (DCI) 2 mmHg-cm-s with 10 fused esophageal manometry. An esophagogastroscopy would swallows] with hypotensive lower esophageal sphincter (LES), also be performed to ensure that there is no mechanical ob- normal integrated relaxation pressure (IRP), complete failed struction or pseudo achalasia causes like esophageal gastric bolus transit in all swallows (Figure 1) based on impedance. junction tumors. With high resolution impedance manome- A barium swallow study on September 2014 showed dilated in the diagnosis and planning of treatment for EMDs. This in- suspicion of EMD. Due to absent contractility
