e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: esophageal, patient, motility, hrim, esophageal motility, esophagus, dci, bolus, disorder, case, disorders, transit, peristalsis, bolus transit, patients


resolution impedance manome- A barium swallow study on September 2014 showed dilated in the diagnosis and planning of treatment for EMDs. This in- suspicion of EMD. Due to absent contractility and failed bolus cludes distal contraction integral and bolus transit, which is transit, the patient did not proceed for fundoplication as this useful in diagnosing minor EMDs. would worsen her dysphagia. HRiM is essentially an upgrade to regular manometry, to which [PATIENT] more sensors are placed closer, as to obtain more information. It then produces results that are presented dynamically, yield- A 48-year-old Chinese male was referred for surgical interven- ing anatomy and pressure gradients, and the contractile ac- tion of Zenker’s diverticulum. He presented with a 1-month his- tivity of the esophagus. HRiM is better than conventional ma- tory of dysphagia to solid, with recurrent complaints of phar- nometry in recording the movement of the esophagus and its yngitis and left neck swelling. A barium swallow study showed sphincters, and it is able to differentiate the luminal pressur- outpouching lesion at the left lateral aspect of upper esoph- ization of spastic esophageal contraction and a trapped bo- agus. OGDS revealed a diverticulum, 17 cm from the incisor lus . Knowing this difference can help diagnose achalasia, with food debris, the esophagus appeared mildly dilated but distal esophageal spasm, esophago-gastro junction outflow peristalsis was noted. Esophageal HRiM showed a weak upper obstruction, and subtypes as per Chicago Classification of esophageal sphincter with hypercontractile esophagus and in- Esophageal Motility Disorders version 3.0 . A further illus- creased contraction vigor DCI >8000 mmHg-cm-s) in more than tration of the subtypes of EMDs and the diagnostic character- 20% of swallows (Figure 2). He also had reduced bolus transit istics are shown in Table 1. based on impedance. Based on the Chicago Classification v3.0, the patient was diagnosed with Jackhammer esophagus . In this case series, we review 4 different patients and discuss Due to high DCI, this patient did not undergo any surgery, and their diagnosis. We discuss the use of HRiM in each patient’s neither was he treated with medication, but had improvement no more complaints of dysphagia or even halitosis. This work is licensed under Creative Common Attribution- Indexed in: [PMC] [PubMed] [Emerging Sources Citation Index (ESCI)] 999 NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0) [Web of Science by Clarivate] Boo H.S. et al.: HRiM in esophageal motility disorder © Am J
