e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: esophageal, patient, motility, hrim, esophageal motility, esophagus, dci, bolus, disorder, case, disorders, transit, peristalsis, bolus transit, patients


(N). DCI – distal contraction integral; IRP – integrated relaxation pressure. [PATIENT] A 44-year-old Indian female was clinically diagnosed with acha- Discussion lasia cardia and underwent surgical myotomy without anti-re- flux procedure. Despite the surgery, she remained symptom- Esophageal motility disorders (EMDs) consist of a complicat- atic and underwent multiple pneumatic balloon dilatations. ed array of disturbances associated with dysphagia, gastro- A barium study was done post-surgery, and it was suggestive esophageal reflux, and noncardiac chest pain . Until now, it of recurrent achalasia. She had water-perfused conventional has been unclear as to whether EMDs represent an indepen- manometry done for her recurrent symptoms which showed dent group of diseases or an incidental phenomenon caused aperistaltic esophagus with normal LES pressure. A recent by other diseases as the clinical presentation may be perplex- OGDS showed a LA Classification Grade D reflux esophagi- ing. High resolution impedance manometry (HRiM) has estab- tis with Schatzki’s ring. HRiM revealed an ineffective esoph- lished itself as a valuable tool in evaluating benign EMD and ageal motility with hypotensive LES (LESP 5.5 mmHg; IRP 6 this may serve as basis to offer the appropriate therapeutic mmHg) (Figure 3). Her DCI was within normal limits with re- options for the patients . duced bolus transit, resulting in the decision for conservative management. Her condition fell under the diagnosis of frag- [PATIENT] and [PATIENT] had their manometry done prior to mented peristalsis. surgical decision. [PATIENT] was referred for fundoplication in view of severe GERD and PPI dependent. The presence of dys- [PATIENT] phagia in a patient with heartburn is an alarming symptom. In the algorithm of management of dysphagia, upper endos- A 62-year-old Indian female was diagnosed with esophageal copy is highly recommended to look for mechanical esopha- diverticulum and underwent left thoracotomy and esophageal geal obstruction. In contrast, this patient has a dilated esoph- diverticulectomy. She remained symptomatic with odynophagia agus, pooling of liquid or saliva, and reflux changes at the and dysphagia to solid. Water-perfused conventional manome- distal esophagus without an obvious intraluminal obstructing try had normal findings. A repeat OGDS showed recurrent dis- lesion. This lead to the suspicion of esophageal motility disor- tal esophageal diverticulum at 32 cm, with the esophagogastric der. The commonest motility esophageal disorder that could junction patent. A video-fluoroscopy showed contrast hold-up mimic GERD is achalasia cardia. In achalasia, retained food as proximal to the diverticulum, with proximal esophagus
