e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: esophageal, patient, motility, hrim, esophageal motility, esophagus, dci, bolus, disorder, case, disorders, transit, peristalsis, bolus transit, patients


commonest motility esophageal disorder that could junction patent. A video-fluoroscopy showed contrast hold-up mimic GERD is achalasia cardia. In achalasia, retained food as proximal to the diverticulum, with proximal esophagus dilata- a result of failed bolus transit is fermented to acid and thus tion. We proceeded with HRiM, which confirmed that the pa- produces heartburn like symptoms of GERD. Narrowing of the tient had IEM (Figure 4) with a DCI of 2 mmHg-cm-s and failed distal esophagus that mimicked bird’s beak appearance that bolus transit. Her disease was classified as a minor disorder was demonstrated in the barium swallow of this patient, may of dysmotility according to the Chicago Classification v3.0 . cause a misdiagnosis of achalasia cardia. Placing the piec- es together with the HRiM findings of aperistalsis and hypo- tensive LES (without esophagogastric obstruction), points to This work is licensed under Creative Common Attribution- Indexed in: [PMC] [PubMed] [Emerging Sources Citation Index (ESCI)] 1001 NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0) [Web of Science by Clarivate] Boo H.S. et al.: HRiM in esophageal motility disorder © Am J Case Rep, 2018; 19: 998-1003 By subjecting this patient to a fundoplication without diagnos- not see its importance in the clinical setting. Based on histo- ing the underlying aperistaltic esophagus via HRiM, would in- ry, examination, and investigation findings, the conventional evitably cause complete dysphagia. On the other hand, a my- patient workup is a barium swallow study or upper endosco- otomy is equally as morbid in worsening reflux. In patient A’s py. With the limited data that barium swallow study or upper case, conservative management may not fully cure the symp- endoscopy provides, patients are often subjected to surgery. toms, but it would possibly worsen her condition if any surgi- If esophageal dysmotility disorder is suspected based on the suggest the inclusion of HRiM as a confirmation of diagnosis [PATIENT] was referred as a case of Zenker’s diverticulum for before embarking on surgery, which potentially can be mor- surgical intervention after confirmation with OGDS and bar- bid for the patient if complications ensue. As previously men- ium swallow studies. Literature has shown that esophageal tioned, HRiM has a higher sensitivity than the normal manom- manometry is not routinely required. However, it may help to etry due to the information retrieved and its display shown in illuminate the pathogenesis of the diverticulum HRiM was aiding interpretation of disease. performed in view
