e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: esophageal, patient, motility, hrim, esophageal motility, esophagus, dci, bolus, disorder, case, disorders, transit, peristalsis, bolus transit, patients


it may help to etry due to the information retrieved and its display shown in illuminate the pathogenesis of the diverticulum HRiM was aiding interpretation of disease. performed in view of this patient’s atypical presentation of Zenker’s diverticulum at a relative young age compared to the Esophageal motility is studied by looking at peristaltic pres- classical presentation in the elderly population. HRiM revealed sure and bolus transit. Conventionally, bolus transit has been that the patient had a hypertensive esophagus of Jackhammer studied using barium swallow tests, but with intraluminal im- esophagus. A diverticulectomy would likely have been offered pedance tests, the same function may be carried out . In for treatment for this patient if HRiM was not performed. This the latest Chicago Classification v3.0, bolus transit becomes would have led to a possible disastrous complication of a leak important, and as it is looks at ineffective swallows, it helps to a recurrent diverticulum, as the issue of high intra-luminal arrive at diagnosis, especially in minor disorders of peristal- esophageal pressure from the spastic esophagus contraction sis . Jain et al. found that while manometry measures had not been resolved. On the other hand, a simple change peristalsis, impedance measures the actual bolus movement, in the patient’s diet and intake of food bolus per se, improved making it a very powerful combination for the purpose of diag- his symptoms without further intervention and the need to nosis, as 51% of patients with IEM have normal bolus transit. start pharmaceutical treatment. IEM is a minor EMD, which is usually a combination of weak and failed peristalsis. By definition, IEM has a weak peristalsis, [PATIENT] and [PATIENT] underwent surgical intervention prior with small and large peristaltic defects, and often failed peri- to the introduction of HRiM. [PATIENT] remained symptomat- stalsis, with at least half of the swallows having a DCI less than ic despite surgical myotomy and repeated endoscopic pneu- 450 mmHg-cm-s . As high as 49.4% patients that present matic balloon dilatation for achalasia cardia. HRiM revealed with GERD were actually found to have IEM , which means ineffective esophageal motility with hypotensive LES and ab- it may be more common than initially thought. However, fur- sent peristalsis. In hindsight, we postulated that this patient ther studies are only warranted when a patient presents with was incorrectly diagnosed with achalasia based on the bari- worrying symptoms like dysphagia. um swallow study
