e-ISSN 1941-5923
KEYWORDS: esophageal, patient, motility, hrim, esophageal motility, esophagus, dci, bolus, disorder, case, disorders, transit, peristalsis, bolus transit, patients


postulated that this patient ther studies are only warranted when a patient presents with was incorrectly diagnosed with achalasia based on the bari- worrying symptoms like dysphagia. um swallow study alone, when she actually had a fragment- ed peristalsis with severe reflux stricture. Hence, there was As IEM is associated with reflux disease , one may per- no return of peristalsis despite a normal LES relaxation after haps attempt to conclude that for patients diagnosed with repeated surgical and endoscopic myotomy. She was treat- IEM who have poor bolus and reduced DCI, there can be ed with pro-motility medication and anti-acid treatment. She attempts of treatment with prokinetics. This association was also advised to modify her diet as to ease the transit of was also delineated in studies by Simren et al. and food. However, she was still somewhat symptomatic despite Fornari et al. . Jain et al. suggested that in patients with medical treatment. DCI <100 mmHg-cm-s and impaired bolus clearance, proki- netics like bethanechol can be used, while a patient with DCI [PATIENT] was diagnosed with esophageal diverticulum. A ma- <100 mmHg-cm-s but with reasonable bolus transit and GERD nometry would have diagnosed her with a pulsion diverticu- may still be treated with a partial anti-reflux. In the same pa- lum. However, she was treated with diverticulectomy result- per, patients with IEM with DCI >100 mmHg-cm-s were opted ing in a leak from diverticulectomy post-operatively. According for conservative management. Heider et al. claimed that to her result parameters on the HRiM, this patient had IEM. esophageal body contraction amplitude improves with an- However, due to poor bolus transit, she was only treated with ti-reflux surgery, giving further support to the association of pro-motility medication and diet modification. She remained IEM and reflux disease. However, Mello et al. disagreed quite asymptomatic and did not required further treatment. in his study of 68 patients, where it was seen that some pa- tients persist, while some others develop new onset of IEM. 1002 This work is licensed under Creative Common Attribution- Indexed in: [PMC] [PubMed] [Emerging Sources Citation Index (ESCI)] NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0) [Web of Science by Clarivate] Boo H.S. et al.: HRiM in esophageal motility disorder © Am J Case Rep, 2018; 19: 998-1003 Impedance is not yet included in the latest Chicago Classification Conclusions v3.0 , although bolus transit is mentioned in the diagnosis of minor
