The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


ABSTRACT The neurohypophysis is the structural foundation of a neuro-humoral system coordinating fluid balance and reproductive function through the action of two peptide hormones: vasopressin and oxytocin. Vasopressin is the principle endocrine regulator of renal water excretion, facilitating adaptive physiological responses to maintain plasma volume and plasma osmolality. Oxytocin is important in parturition and lactation but also has several other peripheral and central effects. Data supports a wider role for both peptides in the neuro-regulation of complex behavior. Clinically, deficits in the production or action of vasopressin manifest as Vasopressin deficiency (formerly known as central diabetes insipidus). An understanding of the physiology and pathophysiology of vasopressin is also critical in approaching the diagnosis and management of hyponatremia, the most common electrolyte disturbance in clinical practice. This chapter explores the anatomy, physiology, and pathophysiology of the neurohypophysis, vasopressin and oxytocin; highlighting developments in the neural basis of osmo-sensing; the mechanism of action of vasopressin and oxytocin; together with a description of the cell and molecular biology underpinning some of the disease processes in which both the structure and functions of the two hormones are involved. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION The neurohypophysis consists of three parts: the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei of the hypothalamus; the supraoptico-hypophyseal tract; and the posterior pituitary. The neurohypophysis is one component of a complex neurohumoral system coordinating physiological responses to changes in both the internal and external environment. This chapter will concentrate on the physiology and pathophysiology of two hormones made by the hypothalamus and posterior pituitary, vasopressin (AVP) and oxytocin (OT). These hormones have key roles in water balance and reproductive function. ANATOMY, CELL BIOLOGY AND PHYSIOLOGY OF THE OF THE HYPOTHALAMO-POSTERIOR PITUITARY AXIS Anatomy of the Neurohypophysis The posterior pituitary is derived from the forebrain during development and is composed predominantly of neural tissue. It lies below the hypothalamus, with which it forms a structural and functional unit: the neurohypophysis. The supraoptic nucleus (SON) is situated along the proximal part of the optic tract. It consists of the cell bodies of discrete vasopressinergic and oxytotic magnocellular neurons projecting to the posterior pituitary along the supraoptico-hypophyseal tract. The paraventricular nucleus (PVN) also contains discrete vasopressinergic and oxytotic magnocellular neurons, also projecting to the posterior pituitary along the supraoptico-hypophyseal tract. There is also central release of OXT via dendritic diffusion and axonal projections.
