The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


contains discrete vasopressinergic and oxytotic magnocellular neurons, also projecting to the posterior pituitary along the supraoptico-hypophyseal tract. There is also central release of OXT via dendritic diffusion and axonal projections. The PVN contains additional, smaller parvocellular neurons that project to the median eminence and additional extra-hypothalamic areas including forebrain, brain stem, and spinal cord. Some of these parvocellular neurons are vasopressinergic. A group of those projecting via the median eminence co-secrete AVP and corticotrophin releasing hormone (CRH) and terminate in the hypophyseal-portal bed of the anterior pituitary. These and other vasopressinergic parvocellular neurons terminating in the hypophyseal-portal bed have a role in the regulation of adrenocorticotrophin (ACTH) release from the anterior pituitary gland, acting synergistically with CRH produced by other hypothalamic neurons. A schematic overview of the anatomy of the neurohypophysis and its major connections is shown in Figure 1 . Figure 1. Schematic representation of the anatomy of the neurohypophysis, and its major afferent and efferent connections. The posterior pituitary receives an arterial blood supply from the inferior hypophyseal artery and the artery of the trabecula (a branch of the superior hypophyseal artery), derivatives of the internal carotid artery and its branches. The SON and PVN receive an arterial supply from the supra-hypophyseal, anterior communicating, anterior cerebral, posterior communicating and posterior cerebral arteries, all derived from the circle of Willis. Venous drainage of the neurohypophysis is via the dural, cavernous and inferior petrosal sinuses. Molecular-Cell Biology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin AVP is a 9 amino acid peptide with a disulphide bridge between the cysteine residues at positions 1 and 6 ( Figure 2 ). Most mammals have the amino-acid arginine at position 8, though in the Pig family arginine is substituted by lysine. The structure of OT differs from that of AVP by only 2 amino acids: isoleucine for phenylalanine at position 3; and leucine for arginine at position 8. Non-mammalian species have a variety of peptides very similar to AVP and OT, suggesting they derive from a common ancestral gene. Figure 2. The structural and chemical characteristics of Vasopressin and Oxytocin. The cyclical peptides differ in only 2 amino acid positions. Both contain disulphide bridges between cysteine residues at positions 1 and 6. The Vasopressin-Neurophysin and Oxytocin-Neurophysin Genes The genes encoding AVP and OT are in a head to head tandem array on chromosome 20p13 in humans, separated by 12 Kb of DNA. Each has 3 exons, and
