The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


The genes encoding AVP and OT are in a head to head tandem array on chromosome 20p13 in humans, separated by 12 Kb of DNA. Each has 3 exons, and encodes a polypeptide precursor with a modular structure: an amino-terminal signal peptide; the AVP or OT peptide; a hormone-specific mid-molecule peptide termed a neurophysin (NPI and NPII for OT and AVP respectively); and a carboxyl-terminal peptide known as copeptin ( Figure 3 ). There is considerable homology between the NP sequences of the AVP-NP and OT-NP genes, positions 10-74 of the NP sequences being highly conserved at the amino acid level. Figure 3. Structural organization of the Vasopressin-neurophysin II gene, and processing of its product. The AVP-NPII gene has 3 exons. Translation of the mRNA yields a larger preprohormone precursor, subsequently modified through substantial post-translational modification. The OT gene has a similar structure, and its product undergoes similar processing and post-translational modification. AVP: Vasopressin. NPII: Neurophysin II. OsRE: osmo-sensitive response element. GRE: glucocorticoid response element. ERE: estrogen response element. AP1-RE: AP1 response element. Regulatory control of AVP gene expression is mediated through positive and negative elements in the proximal promoter. Several transcription factors bind to these elements. AP1, AP2, and CREB stimulate AVP gene expression. The glucocorticoid receptor (GR) represses expression ( 1 , 2 ). The human, rat, and mouse OT promoters contain half estrogen-response elements, and IL-6 response elements ( 3 ). The inter-genic region between the AVP and OT genes contains regulatory elements responsible for selective expression. The region -288 to -116 5′ upstream of the AVP gene promoter confers cell-type (magnocellular neuron) specific expression of the AVP gene ( 4 ). AVP gene expression can also be regulated at a post-transcriptional level. The length of the poly (A) tail of AVP mRNA increases in response to water deprivation, influencing mRNA stability ( 4 ). AVP mRNA also contains a dendritic localization sequence (DLS). Interaction of the DLS with a multifunctional poly(A) binding protein (PABP) may play key role in RNA stabilization, initiation of translation and translational silencing ( 5 ). Synthesis And Release of Vasopressin and Oxytocin Synthesis of the AVP and OT precursors occurs in the cell bodies of discrete vasopressinergic and oxytotic magnocellular neurosecretory neurons within the supraoptic (SON) and paraventricular (PVN) nuclei of the hypothalamus. Generation of the mature hormone entails post-translational modification of the large primary precursor ( Figure 4 ). Following
