The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


neurons within the supraoptic (SON) and paraventricular (PVN) nuclei of the hypothalamus. Generation of the mature hormone entails post-translational modification of the large primary precursor ( Figure 4 ). Following ribosomal translation of the respective mRNA, the carboxyl terminal domain of the precursor is glycosylated, and the product packaged in vesicles of the regulated secretory pathway. These migrate along the axons of the magnocellular neurons, during which the precursor is cleaved by basic endopeptidases into the mature hormone and the associated NP and copeptin. These are stored in secretory granules within the terminals of the magnocellular neurons in the posterior pituitary. Increased firing frequency of vasopressinergic and oxytotic neurons opens voltage-gated Ca2+ channels in these nerve terminals. This, in turn, leads to transient Ca2+ influx, fusion of the neurosecretory granules with the nerve terminal membrane, and release of the hormone and its NP and copeptin into the systemic circulation in equimolar quantities. NPs act as carrier proteins for AVP and OT during axonal migration and appear to serve no other function. The function of copeptin remains unclear to date, it has been postulated to play a role as a prolactin-releasing factor, but never confirmed ( 6 , 7 ). Another role as a chaperone-like molecule involved in the folding of the AVP precursor has been speculated ( 8 ). In addition, it was reported to interact with the calnexin–calreticulin system ( 9 ), which prevents the export of misfolded, glucose-tagged proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum. Figure 4. Schematic overview of the post-translational processing of the AVP-NP II gene product. Sequential modification of 164 amino-acid AVP-NPII preprohormone in endoplasmic reticulum and golgi lead to trafficking through the regulated secretory pathway and ultimately release from neurosecretory vesicles in the posterior pituitary. AVP-NPII precursor is complexed as tetramers or high oligomers during processing. A small amount of partially processed precursor is released through the constitutive secretory pathway. OT is processed in a similar manner. AVP and OT circulate unbound to plasma proteins, though AVP does bind to specific receptors on platelets. AVP concentrations in platelet-rich plasma are 5-fold higher than in platelet-depleted plasma ( 10 ). AVP and OT have short circulating half-lives of 5-15 minutes. Several endothelial and circulating endo- and amino-peptidases degrade the peptides. A specific placental cysteine amino-peptidase degrades AVP and OT rapidly during pregnancy and the peri-partum period. The Physiology of the Secretion of Vasopressin and Thirst AVP is
