The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


degrade the peptides. A specific placental cysteine amino-peptidase degrades AVP and OT rapidly during pregnancy and the peri-partum period. The Physiology of the Secretion of Vasopressin and Thirst AVP is a key component in the regulation of fluid and electrolyte balance, through direct effects on renal water handling. However, the physiology of AVP has a wider context, encompassing roles in the integrated response to changes in cardiovascular status. VASOPRESSIN RECEPTORS There are three distinct AVP receptor (V-R) subtypes ( Table 1 ). All have seven transmembrane spanning domains, and all are G protein coupled. They are encoded by different genes and differ in tissue distribution, down-stream signal transduction and function. The human V2-R gene maps to Xq28. Interestingly, the V2-R is up regulated by its ligand ( 11 ). Table 1. Vasopressin Receptor Subtypes View in own window Vasopressin receptor V1a V1b V2 Expression ●Vascular smooth muscle ●Liver ●Platelets ●CNS Pituitary corticotroph Basolateral membrane of distal nephron Amino acid structure 418 amino acids (human) 424 amino acids (human) 370 amino acids (human) Second messenger system Gq/11mediated phospholipase C activation: Ca 2+ , inositol triphosphate & diacyl glycerol mobilization As V1a Gs mediated adenylate cyclase activation: cAMP production & protein kinase A stimulation Physiological effects ●Smooth muscle contraction ●Stimulation of glycogenolysis. ●Enhanced platelet adhesion ●Neurotransmitter & neuromodulatory function Enhanced ACTH release Increased synthesis & assembly of aquaporin-2 VASOPRESSIN AND RENAL WATER HANDLING Although AVP has multiple actions, its principle physiological effect is in the regulation of water resorption in the distal nephron, the structure and transport processes of which allow the kidney to both concentrate and dilute urine in response to the prevailing circulating AVP concentration. Active transport of solutes out of the thick ascending loop of Henle generates an osmolar gradient in the renal interstitium, which increases from renal cortex to inner medulla, a gradient through which distal parts of the nephron pass en route to the collecting system. AVP stimulates the expression of a specific water channel protein (aquaporin) on the luminal surface of the interstitial cells lining the collecting duct. The presence of aquaporin (AQP) in the wall of the distal nephron allows resorption of water from the duct lumen along an osmotic gradient, and excretion of concentrated urine. To date, 13 different AQPs have been identified in humans, seven of which (AQP1-4, AQP6-8) are found in the kidney. AQPs act as passive pores for small substrates and
