The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


urine. To date, 13 different AQPs have been identified in humans, seven of which (AQP1-4, AQP6-8) are found in the kidney. AQPs act as passive pores for small substrates and are divided into 2 families: the water only channels; and the aquaglyceroporins that can conduct other small molecules such as glycerol and urea. Most are substrates are neutral. However, this is not always the case. For example, AQP6 is a gated ion channel. AQPs are involved in a variety of cell processes: small molecule permeation; gas conduction, and cell-cell interaction. As with other membrane channels, specific structural arrangements within the primary, secondary, and tertiary structure convey the three functional characteristics of permeation, selectivity, and gating. The structure of AQPs involves 2 tandem repeats, each formed from 3 transmembrane domains, together with 2 highly conserved loops containing the signature motif asparagine-proline-alanine (NPA). All AQPs form homotetramers in the membrane, providing 4 functionally independent pores with an additional central pore formed between the 4 monomers. Water can pass through all the 4 independent channels of water-permeable AQPs. There are data to suggest that the central pore may act as independent channel in some AQPs ( 12 - 14 ). AQP1 is constitutively expressed in the apical and basolateral membranes of the proximal tubule and descending loop of Henle, where it facilitates isotonic fluid movement. Loss of function mutations of AQP1 in man lead to defective renal water conservation ( 15 ). AQP2 is expressed on the luminal surface of collecting duct cells and is the water channel responsible for AVP-dependent water transport from the lumen of the nephron into the collecting duct cells. V2-R activation in collecting duct cells produces a biphasic increase in expression of AQP2. Ligand-receptor binding triggers an intracellular phosphorylation cascade ultimately resulting in phosphorylation of the nuclear transcription factor CREB and expression of c-Fos. In turn, these transcription factors stimulate AQP2 gene expression through CRE and AP-1 elements in the AQP2 gene promoter. In addition, AVP stimulates an immediate increase in AQP2 expression by accelerating trafficking and assembly of pre-synthesized protein into functional, homo-tetrameric water channels. Maximum diuresis occurs at plasma AVP concentrations of 0.5 pmol/l or less. As AVP levels rise, there is a sigmoid relationship between plasma AVP concentration and urine osmolality, with maximum urine concentration achieved at plasma AVP concentrations of 3-4 pmol/L ( Figure 5 ). Following persistent AVP secretion, antidiuresis may diminish. Down-regulation
