The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


plasma AVP concentration and urine osmolality, with maximum urine concentration achieved at plasma AVP concentrations of 3-4 pmol/L ( Figure 5 ). Following persistent AVP secretion, antidiuresis may diminish. Down-regulation of both V2-R function and AQP2 expression may be responsible for this escape phenomenon. Figure 5. The relationship of plasma AVP concentration to urine osmolality. Shaded area represents the normal range; single line indicates representative individual. AVP has additional effects at other sites in the nephron: decreasing medullary blood flow; stimulating active urea transport in the distal collecting duct; and stimulating active sodium transport into the renal interstitium. AVP up-regulates the bumetanide-sensitive sodium-potassium-chloride cotransporter (SLC12A1) in the thick ascending loop of Henle through both a rapid acceleration of post-translational processing/trafficking and an increase in SCLC12A1 gene expression. Together, these contribute to the generation and maintenance of a hypertonic medullary interstitium, and augment AVP-dependent water resorption ( 16 ). REGULATION OF VASOPRESSIN RELEASE Osmoregulation of Vasopressin Plasma osmolality is the most important determinant of AVP secretion. The osmoregulatory systems for thirst and AVP secretion, and in turn the actions of AVP on renal water excretion, maintain plasma osmolality within narrow limits of 284 to 295 mOsmol/kg. The relationship between plasma osmolality and plasma AVP concentration has 3 characteristics. The osmotic threshold or ‘set point’ for AVP release. The shape of the line describing changes in plasma AVP concentration with changing plasma osmolality. The sensitivity of the osmoregulatory mechanism coupling plasma osmolality and AVP release. Increases in plasma osmolality increase plasma AVP concentrations in a linear manner ( Figure 6 ). The abscissal intercept of this line indicates the mean ‘osmotic threshold’ for AVP release (284 mOsmol/kg): the mean plasma osmolality above which plasma AVP increases in response to increases in plasma osmolality. AVP levels increase from a basal rate through activation of stimulatory osmoreceptor afferents and decrease to minimal values when this drive is removed and synergistic inhibitory afferents are activated. The slope of the line relating plasma osmolality to plasma AVP concentration reflects the sensitivity of osmoregulated AVP release. There are considerable inter-individual variations in both the threshold and sensitivity of AVP release. However, they are remarkably reproducible within an individual over time ( 17 ). Figure 6. The relationship of plasma AVP concentration to changes in plasma osmolality during controlled hypertonic stimulation. AVP concentration determined during progressive hypertonicity induced by infusion of 855 mmol/l saline in a group of
