The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


of plasma AVP concentration to changes in plasma osmolality during controlled hypertonic stimulation. AVP concentration determined during progressive hypertonicity induced by infusion of 855 mmol/l saline in a group of healthy adults. Increases in plasma osmolality increase plasma AVP concentrations in a linear manner, defined by the function, plasma AVP = 0.43 (plasma osmolality - 284), r = +0.96. The abscissal intercept of this regression line indicates the mean ‘osmotic threshold’ for AVP release: the mean plasma osmolality above which plasma AVP starts to increase. The shaded area represents the range of normal response. The limit of detection of the assay, 0.3 pmol/l. There are situations where the normal relationship between plasma osmolality and AVP concentration breaks down: Rapid changes of plasma osmolality: rapid increases in plasma osmolality result in exaggerated AVP release. During the act of drinking: drinking rapidly suppresses AVP release, through afferent pathways originating in the oropharynx. Pregnancy: the osmotic threshold for AVP release is lowered in pregnancy. Whether aging is accompanied by changes in AVP concentrations is controversial. As befits its major function and physiological role, AVP production by the neurohypophysis is influenced by sensory signals reflecting osmotic status and blood pressure/circulating volume. The relationships of the SON and PVN with the autonomic afferents and central nervous system nuclei responsible for osmo- and baroregulation are key to the physiological regulation of AVP. Functional osmoreceptors are situated in anterior circumventricular structures: the subfornicular organ (SFO), and the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis (OVLT). Local fenestrations in the blood brain barrier at these sites allow neural tissue direct contact with the circulation. Subsequent sensory input to the SON and PVN is via glutaminergic afferents. Moreover, these neurons integrate osmolar status with additional endocrine signals reflecting circulating volume status through the action of angiotensin II (A-II), relaxin, and atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP). A-II and relaxin excite both OT and AVP magnocellular neurons. In contrast, ANP inhibits AVP neuron activity. AVP neurons themselves have independent osmo-sensing properties and V-Rs are present on vasopressinergic neurons of both the PVN and SON, highlighting the potential for auto-control of AVP release through direct osmoregulation and short loop feedback ( 18 ). AVP magnocellular neurons in the SON and PVN co-express the peptide Apelin and it’s G-protein coupled receptor. A ‘yin and yang’ relationship has been proposed between AVP and this 36 amino-acid peptide (and indeed it’s shorter active derivatives Apelin-17 and Apelin-13).
