The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


Apelin and it’s G-protein coupled receptor. A ‘yin and yang’ relationship has been proposed between AVP and this 36 amino-acid peptide (and indeed it’s shorter active derivatives Apelin-17 and Apelin-13). Intra-cerebroventricular injection of Apelin-17 inhibits the phasic firing of AVP magnocellular neurons, reducing AVP release and stimulating aquaresis. Hypertonic stress and water loading have reciprocal effects on plasma AVP and Apelin concentrations. Apelin receptors are also co-expressed in AVP target cells in the renal collecting duct. AVP and Apelin are thus regulated in opposite directions to maintain volume and osmolar homeostasis ( 19 - 22 ). Changes in the osmotic environment of osmo-sensitive neurons in the OVLT, SFO, and vasopressinergic neurons of the SON and PVN result in altered cell volume. These physical changes alter the activity of the stretch-sensitive cationic channel TRPV1, expressed on the cell surface of these neurons. TRPVI thus acts as the transduction mechanism linking changes in osmolality to altered membrane potential and firing frequency. Osmoregulatory function is not lost in Trpv1−/−mice, indicating additional osmo-sensing pathways must be in operation ( 23 ). A related, but distinct osmo-sensory input feeds additional data on peripheral osmolar status to the neurohypophysis. Hepatic portal blood vessels contain sensory neurons responsive to changes in the osmolality of peripheral blood. In contrast to central mechanisms, the key transducing element of the peripheral process is the stretch-sensitive ion channel, TRPV4. Plasma osmolality is frequently elevated in patients after liver transplant in which the donor organ is denervated, demonstrating the function of this peripheral pathway ( 24 ). Osmosensitivity of AVP release is influenced by circadian rhythms. AVP release increases during sleep. This effect is mediated by clock neurons projecting from the suprachismatic nucleus, increasing the activity of osmosensory afferent input to the SON ( 25 ). Baroregulation of Vasopressin Reductions in circulating volume stimulate AVP release. Falls in arterial blood pressure of 5 to 10 per cent are necessary to increase circulating AVP concentrations in humans. Progressive reduction in blood pressure produces an exponential increase in plasma AVP, in contrast to the linear increases of osmoregulated AVP release. Baroregulatory influences on neurohypophyseal AVP release derive from aortic arch, carotid sinus, cardiac atrial, and great vein stretch-sensitive afferents via cranial nerves IX and X. Ascending projections are via the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) in the brain stem. From the NTS, further afferents project to the SON and PVN, which also receive additional adrenergic
