The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


X. Ascending projections are via the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) in the brain stem. From the NTS, further afferents project to the SON and PVN, which also receive additional adrenergic afferents from other brain stem nuclei involved in cardiovascular control, such as the locus coeruleus. These nuclei integrate a number of afferent inputs that reflect volume status. Ascending baroregulatory pathways must affect some tonic inhibition of AVP release, as interruption increases plasma AVP levels ( 26 , 27 ). Osmoregulated AVP responses can be modified by factors triggered as part of the coordinated neurohumoral response to changes in circulating volume and blood pressure. A-II amplifies the proportional relationship between osmolality and action potential firing in the SON. The peptide produces this effect through polymerization of intracellular actin filaments, resulting in altered cell shape, a mechanism that is synergistic with that mediating responses to changes in extracellular osmolality. A-II thus enhances osmosensitivity. This mechanism underpins the changes in osmo-regulated AVP release in hypo- and hypervolemia: the osmotic threshold and sensitivity of AVP release is lowered by hypovolemia ; while the converse is found in hypervolemia and hypertension ( 19 ). Additional Mechanisms Regulating Vasopressin Release A number of other stimuli influence AVP release independent of osmotic and hemodynamic status. Nausea and emesis. Unspecific stress. Pain. Manipulation of abdominal contents. Immune-response mediators and inflammatory triggers. These stimuli contribute to high plasma AVP values observed in acute illness and after surgery. Additional Effect of Vasopressin Cardiovascular Effects: AVP is a potent pressor agent; its effects are mediated through a specific receptor (V1-R) expressed by vascular smooth muscle cells. Though systemic effects on arterial blood pressure are only apparent at high concentrations, AVP is important in maintaining blood pressure in mild volume depletion. The most striking vascular effects of AVP are in the regulation of regional blood flow. The sensitivity of vascular smooth muscle to the pressor effects of AVP varies according to the vascular bed. Vasoconstriction of splanchnic, hepatic, and renal vessels occur at AVP concentrations close to the physiological range. Furthermore, there are differential pressor responses within a given vascular bed. Selective effects on intrarenal vessels lead to redistribution of renal blood flow from medulla to cortex. Baroregulated AVP release thus constitutes one of the key physiological mediators of an integrated hemodynamic response to volume depletion. Effects on the pituitary: AVP is an ACTH secretagogue, acting through pituitary corticotroph-specific V1b-Rs. Though the
