The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


one of the key physiological mediators of an integrated hemodynamic response to volume depletion. Effects on the pituitary: AVP is an ACTH secretagogue, acting through pituitary corticotroph-specific V1b-Rs. Though the effect is weak in isolation, AVP and CRF act synergistically. AVP and CRF co-localize in neurohypophyseal parvocellular neurons projecting to the median eminence and the neurohypophyseal portal blood supply of the anterior pituitary. Levels of both AVP and CRF in these neurons are inversely related to glucocorticoid levels, consistent with a role in feedback regulation. Effects of AVP on regulation of bone mass: AVP exerts its action both on osteoblasts and osteoclasts thru AVPR1 and AVPR2 receptors ( 28 ). Mice studies showed that AVP upregulates osteoclast differentiation genes and inhibits osteoblast formation. Mice rendered deficient in AVPr1a (Avpr1a-/-) have a high bone mass, and they show an increase in osteoblastogenesis after additional inhibition of AVPR2 ( 29 ). The AVP effect is opposed by oxytocin, which stimulates osteoblast formation and inhibits mature osteoclast activation. Mice studies showed that both haploinsufficiency for oxytocin and deletion of the oxytocin receptor (Oxr-/-) result in osteopenia ( 30 ). The role of both hormones in the regulation of skeletal physiology remains to be further explored ( 31 ). Behavioral Effects of Vasopressin Vasopressinergic fibers and V-Rs are present in CNS neural networks anatomically and functionally independent of the neurohypophysis, including the cerebral cortex and limbic system. An increasing amount of data highlights the role of central vasopressinergic systems in mediating complex social behavior. Data in humans link V1a-R gene sequence variation with a range of normal and abnormal behavior patterns, including gender dimorphic behavior. Dysregulation of central AVP action may be a distal end point in complex conditions characterized by altered social and emotional behavior ( 32 , 33 ). THIRST Renal free water clearance can be reduced to a minimum by the antidiuretic actions of vasopressin, but water loss is not completely eliminated, and insensible water loss from respiration and sweating is a continuous process. To maintain water homeostasis, water must also be consumed to replace the obligate urinary and insensible fluid losses. This is regulated by thirst. Thirst and drinking are key processes in the maintenance of fluid and electrolyte balance. Thirst perception and the regulation of water ingestion involve complex, integrated neural and neurohumoral pathways. As with those mediating AVP release, the osmoreceptors regulating thirst are situated in the OVLT,
