The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


Thirst perception and the regulation of water ingestion involve complex, integrated neural and neurohumoral pathways. As with those mediating AVP release, the osmoreceptors regulating thirst are situated in the OVLT, effectively outside the blood-brain barrier and distinct from those mediating AVP release. Neural activity in and around the OVLT remains active in hyperosmolar states following immediate satiety of thirst, indicating that other centers must be involved in thirst perception. The anterior cingulate cortex and insular cortex receive input from osmo-sensitive afferents and have been implicated as key higher centers in thirst pathways ( 20 ). There is a linear relationship between thirst and plasma osmolalities in the physiological range. The mean osmotic threshold for thirst perception is 281 mOsm/kg, similar to that for AVP release. Thirst occurs when plasma osmolality rises above this threshold. As with osmoregulated AVP release, the characteristics of osmoregulated thirst remain consistent within an individual on repeated testing, despite wide inter-individual variation. As with AVP release, there are also specific physiological situations in which the relationship between plasma osmolality and thirst breaks down. The act of drinking: reduces osmotically stimulated thirst. Extracellular volume depletion: this stimulates thirst through volume-sensitive cardiac afferents and the generation of circulating and intra-cerebral A-II, a powerful dipsogen. Pregnancy, the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle and super ovulation syndrome: these states reduce the osmolar threshold for thirst. Aging: both thirst appreciation and fluid intake can be blunted in the elderly. The act of drinking reduces thirst perception before any change in plasma osmolality. This effect is produced through three mechanisms: oropharyngeal sensory afferents; gastro-intestinal stretch-sensitive afferents; and peripheral osmoreceptors in the hepatic portal vein. Recent data have highlighted how thirst-promoting neurons in the SFO integrate sensory inputs from the oropharynx (drinking and food composition) with central osmolar status to influence thirst perception. This complex mechanism effectively explains anticipatory changes in water consumption that precede changes in plasma osmolality ( 34 ). As with AVP release, hypovolemia resets the relationship between plasma osmolality and thirst. A-II is one of the key mediators of this physiological response. Peripheral A-II generation can act on central osmoreceptors, to increase both thirst and AVP release. An independent, intra-cerebral A-II system is activated in parallel. A-II is a powerful central dipsogen. The Physiology of Oxytocin OT binds to specific G-protein coupled cell surface receptors (OT-Rs) on target cells to mediate a variety of physiological effects, largely concerned
