The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


a powerful central dipsogen. The Physiology of Oxytocin OT binds to specific G-protein coupled cell surface receptors (OT-Rs) on target cells to mediate a variety of physiological effects, largely concerned with reproductive function. The classical physiological roles of OT are the regulation of lactation, parturition, and reproductive behavior. Data from transgenic animals with targeted disruption of the oxytocin gene (and thus lacking OT) have forced a review of this dogma ( 35 ). OXYTOCIN AND LACTATION In the rat, stimulation of vagal sensory afferents in the nipple by the act of suckling triggers reflex synchronized firing of oxytotic magnocellular neurons in the neurohypophysis, and corresponding pulsatile OT release. OT acts on OT-Rs on smooth muscle cells lining the milk ducts of the breast, initiating milk ejection. OT is essential for completion of this milk ejection reflex in rodent. Mice lacking OT fail to transfer milk to their suckling young. This deficit is corrected by injection of OT. In contrast, women lacking posterior pituitary function can breast-feed normally, illustrating that OT is not necessary for lactation in humans. Pituitary lactotrophs express OT-R mRNA, and OT released into the hypophyseal portal blood supply from the median eminence can stimulate prolactin release. However, the role of OT in the physiology of prolactin release remains unclear. OXYTOCIN AND PARTURITION OT is a uterotonic agent. In many mammals, there is both an increase in OT secretion and an increase in uterine responsiveness to OT during parturition ( 3 ). These data suggest a key role for the hormone in the initiation and progression of labor. Falling progesterone concentrations toward the end of pregnancy lead to up-regulation of uterine myometrial OT-Rs, enhanced contractility, and increased sensitivity to circulating OT. Stretching of the ‘birth canal’ during parturition leads to the stimulation of specific autonomic afferents, reflex firing of oxytotic neurons, and OT release. A positive feedback loop is formed, OT stimulating uterine contraction further and enhancing the production of additional local uterotonic mediators such as prostaglandins. The difficulties of analyzing pulsatile release, and the short circulating half-life of the hormone (due to placental cysteine aminopeptidase), have made it difficult to demonstrate increased circulating OT levels in women during labor. Mice lacking OT have normal parturition. Moreover, women with absent posterior pituitary function can have a normal labor. However, the importance of OT in the birth process is highlighted by the effectiveness of OT antagonists in the management
