The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


with absent posterior pituitary function can have a normal labor. However, the importance of OT in the birth process is highlighted by the effectiveness of OT antagonists in the management of pre-term labor ( 36 ). The role of OT in parturition is not limited to maternal responses. Maternal OT produces a switch to inhibitory GABAergic signaling in the fetal CNS. This, in turn, increases fetal neuronal resistance to damage that may occur during delivery. OT therefore mediates direct adaptive mother-fetal signaling during parturition in line with a wider-ranging role in maternal-fetal physiology ( 37 ). OXYTOCIN AND BEHAVIOR OT-R expression is widespread in the CNS of many species, and OT has widespread roles as a neurotransmitter. The central oxytocinergic system and related limbic networks affect complex neural circuits of socio-emotional behavior and promote pro-social effects such as in-group favoritism and protection against social threats, interpersonal trust and attachment, empathy, and emotion recognition ( 38 - 41 ). In humans, brain regions such as the amygdala, hippocampus, cingulate cortex, and nucleus accumbens, which play a key role in human socio-emotional behavior, show a high density of OT-R expression. In some cases, these overlap those involving AVP ( 32 , 33 ). OT knockout (OT-KO) models have been used to identify aspects of dysfunctions in social behavior. Generally, an impairment in forming social memories and higher anxiety-related behaviors were observed ( 42 - 44 ). These results were substantiated by the fact that central administration of OT rescued OT-KO mice from these changes. In the context of behavior; OT facilitates both lordosis and the development of maternal behavior patterns in rats ( 3 ). However, mice lacking OT exhibit normal sexual and maternal behavior, suggesting the behavioral effects to be species-specific or the potential for considerable redundancy in neural pathways. In humans, lower endogenous OT or impaired signaling has been linked with mental disorders associated with social deficits, such as autism spectrum disorder (ASD), anxiety and depression disorder, or borderline personality disorder ( 45 - 50 ). In these disorders, no OT deficiency per se has been proven; the evidence is largely based on observational studies with individual variations in social behavior associated with alteration in peripheral OT levels, in genes involved in OT signaling, or OT-R polymorphisms ( 51 - 53 ). In ASD, recent data have highlighted associations with the single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) rs7632287, rs237887, rs2268491 and rs2254298
