The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


involved in OT signaling, or OT-R polymorphisms ( 51 - 53 ). In ASD, recent data have highlighted associations with the single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) rs7632287, rs237887, rs2268491 and rs2254298 ( 54 - 56 ). Intranasal OT has been investigated to ameliorate symptoms of these conditions. However, overall, the effect size is inconsistent, and the results of these studies are controversial. Central oxytocinergic transmission reduces anxiety behavior and hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal stress responses in female rats. It may be that OT has a complex role in the stress response, with context-dependent differential effects. It buffers responses to social stress, reduces cortisol levels during conflict situations, improves self-representations in patients with anxiety disorder, and reduces amygdala response to emotional stimuli, consequently reducing fear reactivity and anxiety ( 57 - 63 ). Only limited research has been devoted to the role of OT in patients with hypothalamic-pituitary dysfunction and focused primarily on patients with craniopharyngioma (CP). These data assume direct tumor-induced or post-surgical damage to the SON/PVN and consequent disruption of the oxytocinergic system ( 64 - 68 ). Results demonstrate personality changes and increased psycho-social comorbidities – including anxiety, depression, and social withdrawal ( 64 , 69 - 71 ). This was confirmed by a systematic review showing behavioral dysfunctions in 57%, and social impairment and difficulties holding relationships in 40% ( 72 ). Interestingly, the age of onset appears to influence the type of socio-behavioral dysfunction: while adult-onset had higher levels of anxiety and depression, younger patients had more impact in the domains of social isolation. Research in patients with confirmed posterior pituitary dysfunction, i.e., AVP deficiency demonstrated higher depression and anxiety levels, self-reported autistic traits, lower joy when socializing and worse scores on an emotional recognition task than healthy adults ( 73 , 74 ). Similar to other hormones, single basal OT levels are unreliable and insufficient in identifying a deficiency ( 75 ) with inconclusive results in patients with hypothalamic-pituitary dysfunction. Research still disagrees regarding the precise relationship between peripheral OT and centrally generated behavior. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of OT are more likely to mirror the behavioral effects than plasma concentrations, and whether plasma levels may serve as a surrogate for CSF OT is controversially discussed ( 76 , 77 ). Accordingly, peripheral levels of OT correlate to central levels only after stimulation but not at baseline ( 78 ). Established pituitary provocation tests do not show a consistent
