The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


(lymphocytic infundibuloneurohypophysitis, IgG4 neurohypophysitis) Drug/toxin-induced Osmoreceptor dysfunction (adipsic DI) Others (hydrocephalus, ventricular/suprasellar cyst, trauma, degenerative disease) Idiopathic Congenital Autosomal dominant: AVP gene mutation Autosomal recessive: Wolfram Syndrome (DIDMOAD) X-linked recessive Primary Polydipsia Excessive osmotically unregulated fluid intake Dipsogenic (downward resetting of the thirst threshold; idiopathic or similar lesions as with central DI) Psychosis intermittent hyponatremia polydipsia (PIP syndrome) Compulsive water drinking Health enthusiasts AVP resistance Reduced renal sensitivity to antidiuretic effect of physiological AVP levels Acquired Drug exposure (lithium, demeclocycline, cisplatin etc.) Hypercalcemia, hypokalemia Infiltrating lesions (sarcoidosis, amyloidosis, multiple myeloma etc.) Vascular disorders (sickle cell anemia) Mechanical (polycystic kidney disease, uretral obstruction) Congenital X-linked AVPR2 gene mutations autosomal recessive or dominant AQP2 gene mutations Increased AVP metabolism during pregnancy Exaggerated enzymatic metabolism of circulating AVP hormone Pregnancy (mostly twin pregnancy) AVP Deficiency AVP-D is the result of partial or complete lack of osmoregulated AVP secretion. Plasma AVP concentrations are inappropriately low with respect to prevailing plasma osmolalities. Presentation with AVP-D implies destruction or loss of function of more than 80% of vasopressinergic magnocellular neurons. It is rare (estimated prevalence of 1: 25000), with an equal gender distribution. Though persistent polyuria can lead to dehydration, most patients can maintain water balance through appropriate polydipsia if given free access to water. Most cases of AVP-D are acquired. Trauma (head injury or surgery) can produce AVP-D through damage to the hypothalamus, pituitary stalk, or posterior pituitary. Pituitary stalk trauma may lead to a triphasic disturbance in water balance, an immediate polyuric phase followed within days by a more prolonged period (up to several weeks) of antidiuresis suggestive of AVP excess. This second phase can be followed by reversion to AVP-D, or recovery. This characteristic ‘triple response’ reflects initial axonal damage; the subsequent unregulated release of large amounts of pre-synthesized AVP; and either recovery or development of permanent AVP-D (as determined by the magnitude of initial damage to vasopressinergic neurons). All phases of the response are not apparent in all cases. Hypothalamic tumors (e.g., craniopharyngioma) or pituitary metastases (e.g., breast or bronchus) can present with AVP-D. However, primary pituitary tumors rarely cause AVP-D. In childhood, craniopharyngioma and germinoma/teratoma are a relatively common cause ( 81 ). When obvious causes are not present, most cases of AVP-D will be “idiopathic”. However, the possibility of an autoimmune process should be considered, as many idiopathic cases are considered to be autoimmune in origin ( 82 ). A
