The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


of AVP-D will be “idiopathic”. However, the possibility of an autoimmune process should be considered, as many idiopathic cases are considered to be autoimmune in origin ( 82 ). A well-recognized cause of autoimmune AVP-D is lymphocytic infundibulohypophysitis ( 83 ). Familial forms are rare but are a recognized cause of AVP-D in childhood. Most reported cases are expressed as autosomal dominant and the genetic defect is usually in the biologically inactive neurophysin or in the signal peptide of the pre-prohormone. Lack of normal cleavage of the signal peptide from the prohormone and abnormal folding of the vasopressin/neurophysin precursor are thought to produce fibrillar aggregations in the endoplasmic reticulum, which is cytotoxic to the neuron, explaining the dominant phenotype ( 84 , 85 ). Wolfram syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive disease with AVP-D, diabetes mellitus, optic atrophy, and deafness (DIDMOAD). The genetic defect is for the protein wolframin that is found in the endoplasmic reticulum and is important for folding proteins ( 86 ). Wolframin is localized to chromosome 4. It is involved in beta-cell proliferation and intracellular protein processing and calcium homeostasis, producing a wide spectrum of endocrine and central nervous system (CNS) disorders. AVP-D is usually a late manifestation and is associated with decreased magnocellular neurons in the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei ( 87 , 88 ). Primary Polydipsia (PP) PP is a polyuric syndrome secondary to excess fluid intake. PP can be associated with organic structural brain lesions, e.g. sarcoidosis of the hypothalamus ( 89 ) and craniopharyngioma ( 90 ). It can also be produced by drugs that cause a dry mouth or by any peripheral disorder causing an elevation of renin and/or angiotensin. However, mostly there is no identifiable pathologic etiology; in this circumstance the disorder is often associated with psychiatric syndromes. Series of patients in psychiatric hospitals have shown that as many as 42% have some form of polydipsia and for over half of those there was no obvious explanation for the polydipsia ( 91 ). It also seems to be increasingly prevalent in health conscious people who voluntarily change their drinking habits with the aim to improve their well-being, in which case it is often called habitual polydipsia ( 92 ). AVP Resistance (AVP-R) AVP-R is due to renal resistance to the antidiuretic effects of AVP. Genetic variants of AVP-R usually present in infancy ( 93 ). In these forms, AVP-R can
