The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


Resistance (AVP-R) AVP-R is due to renal resistance to the antidiuretic effects of AVP. Genetic variants of AVP-R usually present in infancy ( 93 ). In these forms, AVP-R can occur as a result of mutations in the V2 receptor or mutations of the aquaporin 2 water channels. Over 90% of cases are X-linked recessive in males, and over 200 different mutations of the V2 receptor have been reported affecting all aspects of receptor function: expression; ligand binding; and G-protein coupling. Most lead to complete loss of function, though a few are associated with a mild phenotype. 10% of kindreds with familial AVP-R have an autosomal recessive form, with normal V2-R function. Affected individuals harbor loss of function mutations of the AQP2 gene. Most mutations occur in the region coding for the transmembrane domain of the protein. Additional rare kindreds have been described harboring a mutation in the portion of the gene encoding the carboxyl-terminal intracellular tail of AQP2. The AVP-R of these kindreds is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait, mutant protein sequestering the product of the wild type AQP2 allele within mixed tetramers in a dominant-negative manner. The development of AVP-R in an adult is less likely to reflect a genetic cause. The commonest cause of acquired AVP-R in clinical practice is lithium therapy, with other causes including hypokalemia, hypercalcemia, and release of bilateral urinary tract obstruction associated with downregulation of aquaporin 2 and decreased function of vasopressin ( 94 , 95 ). AVP-R secondary to lithium is characterized by dysregulated AQP2 expression and trafficking along the whole collecting duct as well as dysregulated expression of the amiloride-sensitive epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) in the cortical collecting duct. Lithium enters collecting duct cells through ENaC expressed on the apical cell membrane and leads to inhibition of glycogen synthase kinase type 3 (GSK-3) signaling pathways. AVP-R secondary to lithium toxicity can persist after drug withdrawal and may be irreversible. Demeclocycline is another commonly recognized drug to causes AVP-R and is sometimes used clinically to treat SIAD. The final common pathway producing AVP-R in many of these cases is down-regulation of AQP2 expression ( 96 ). Increases AVP Metabolism in Pregnancy In normal pregnancy, physiologic adaptations include expansion of blood volume and decreased plasma osmolality and serum sodium. Thirst and increased fluid intake are commonly reported in pregnancy, but in some patients the increased thirst is driven by marked polyuria, which
