The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


and decreased plasma osmolality and serum sodium. Thirst and increased fluid intake are commonly reported in pregnancy, but in some patients the increased thirst is driven by marked polyuria, which may point to the presence of diabetes insipidus. Two types of transient increased AVP metabolism must be differentiated in pregnancy, both caused by the placental enzyme cysteine aminopeptidase, named oxytocinase, which enzymatically degrades oxytocin ( 97 ). Because of the close structural homology between AVP and oxytocin, this enzyme also metabolizes AVP. In the first type of pregnancy-associated increased AVP metabolism, the activity of oxytocinase is abnormally elevated. This syndrome has been referred to as vasopressin resistant state of pregnancy ( 98 ) and has been reported to be associated with preeclampsia, acute fatty liver, and coagulopathies. Symptoms usually develop at the end of the second or early third trimester and it is more common during multiple pregnancy ( 99 ). In the second type of pregnancy-associated increased AVP metabolism, the accelerated metabolic clearance of vasopressin produces symptoms of polyuria and polydipsia in a patient with borderline pre-existing vasopressin function from a mild AVP-R or partial AVP-D. Vasopressin is rapidly destroyed and the neurohypophysis is unable to keep up with the increased demand. Symptoms in this second type usually appear early in pregnancy ( 100 ). INVESTIGATIONS FOR DIAGNOSIS Investigations have the following three aims: To confirm hypotonic polyuria. To classify it into either AVP-D or AVP-R. To establish the etiology of the specific form of polyuria. After establishing polyuria and polydipsia, and excluding hyperglycemia, hypokalemia, hypercalcemia and significant renal insufficiency, attention should be focused on the AVP axis. For many years, the indirect water deprivation test was the gold standard for differential diagnosis of hypotonic polyuria. This test indirectly assesses AVP activity by measurement of the urine concentration capacity during a prolonged period of dehydration, and again after a subsequent injection of an exogenous synthetic AVP variant, desmopressin. Interpretation of the test results goes back to the publication of Miller et al ( 101 ). If upon water deprivation, urinary osmolality remains <300mOsm/kg and does not increase >50% after desmopressin injection, complete AVP-R is diagnosed. If the urinary osmolality increase after desmopressin injection is >50%, complete AVP-D is diagnosed. In partial AVP-D and primary polydipsia, urinary concentration increases to 300–800mosm/kg, with an increase of >9% (in partial AVP-D) and <9% (in primary polydipsia), respectively, after desmopressin injection. However, these
