The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


In partial AVP-D and primary polydipsia, urinary concentration increases to 300–800mosm/kg, with an increase of >9% (in partial AVP-D) and <9% (in primary polydipsia), respectively, after desmopressin injection. However, these published criteria are based on post hoc data from only 36 patients, who had a wide overlap in their urinary osmolalities. Furthermore, the diagnostic criteria for this test are derived from a single study with post-hoc assessment ( 101 ) and have not been prospectively validated. Consequently, the indirect water deprivation test has been shown to have considerable diagnostic limitations with an overall diagnostic accuracy of 70%, and an accuracy of only 41% in patients with primary polydipsia ( 102 ). Several reasons exist for this limited diagnostic outcome of the indirect water deprivation test. First, chronic polyuria itself can affect renal concentration capacity, through renal washout ( 103 ) ( 104 , 105 ) or downregulation of AQP2 expression in the kidneys ( 106 ). This may lead to a reduced renal response to osmotic stimulation or exogenous desmopressin in different forms of chronic polyuria. Second, in patients with AVP deficiency, urine concentration can be higher than expected ( 107 , 108 ), especially in those patients with impaired glomerular function, or can result from a compensatory increase in AVPR2 expression in patients with chronic AVP-D ( 109 ). Finally, patients with acquired AVP-R are often only partially resistant to AVP, resulting in a clinical presentation that is similar to partial AVP-D. To overcome these limitations, direct measurement of AVP levels has been proposed. In a study published in 1981, patients with AVP-D were reported to have AVP levels below a calculated normal area (defining the normal relationship between plasma osmolality and AVP levels), whereas AVP levels were above the normal area in patients with AVP-R and within the normal area in patients with primary polydipsia ( 110 ). However, despite these promising initial results, direct measurement of AVP levels failed to enter routine clinical use for various reasons. First, several technical limitations of the AVP assay result in a high preanalytical instability of AVP in samples ( 111 ). Second, the accuracy of diagnoses using commercially available AVP assays has been disappointing, with correct diagnoses in only 38% of patients with AVP-D, and particularly poor differentiation between partial AVP-D and primary polydipsia ( 102 , 112 ). Third, an accurate definition of the normal physiological area defining the
