The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


of patients with AVP-D, and particularly poor differentiation between partial AVP-D and primary polydipsia ( 102 , 112 ). Third, an accurate definition of the normal physiological area defining the relationship between plasma AVP levels and osmolality is still lacking, especially for commercially available assays ( 113 , 114 ), which is a crucial prerequisite for the identification of AVP secretion outside the normal range in patients suspected of having AVP-D ( 102 ). Copeptin, the C-terminal segment of the AVP prohormone, is an easy-to- measure AVP surrogate that is very stable ex vivo ( 111 ), mirroring AVP concentrations. Two studies have shown that a basal copeptin level >21.4pmol/l without prior thirsting unequivocally identifies AVP-R, rendering a further water deprivation test unnecessary in these patients ( 102 , 115 ). For the differentiation between patients with primary polydipsia and AVP-D, results of a study including 144 patients ( 116 ) showed that an osmotically stimulated copeptin level >4.9pmol/l after infusion of 3% saline (aiming at a sodium level >150mmol/l) had an overall diagnostic accuracy of 96.5% (93.2% sensitivity and 100% specificity) in distinguishing between patients with primary polydipsia and those with AVP-D. The classic water deprivation test had an overall diagnostic accuracy of only 76.5%. Importantly, the hypertonic saline infusion test requires close monitoring of sodium levels to ascertain a diagnostically meaningful increase of plasma sodium within the hyperosmotic range while preventing a marked increase. Addition of copeptin measurement did not improve the diagnostic performance of the indirect water deprivation test, most likely due to the lack of osmotic stimulus by thirsting alone. Another study suggests that non-osmotically stimulated copeptin levels upon arginine infusion also provide a high diagnostic accuracy in differentiating AVP-D from PP (117). These data indicate that plasma copeptin is a promising biomarker to distinguish between different forms of polyuria–polydipsia syndrome. A more recent study, however, showed that stimulation of copeptin by hypertonic saline is superior to arginine, and cutoff levels for copeptin measured upon arginine have to be adapted ( 117a ). A possible diagnostic algorithm with and without the availability of copeptin measurement is shown in Figure 8 . Importantly, certain baseline laboratory parameters and clinical signs and symptoms can help in the correct differential diagnosis already at baseline, e.g., sodium levels >145mmol/L or below 135mmol/L indicating AVP-D or primary polydipsia, respectively. For details see Atila et al. ( 117b ). Figure 8. Algorithm
