The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


differential diagnosis already at baseline, e.g., sodium levels >145mmol/L or below 135mmol/L indicating AVP-D or primary polydipsia, respectively. For details see Atila et al. ( 117b ). Figure 8. Algorithm for the differential diagnosis of diabetes insipidus (Rev Christ-Crain, Nat Rev Primer). In establishing the underlying mechanisms of AVP-D once the diagnosis is confirmed, imaging of the hypothalamus, pituitary, and surrounding structures with MRI is essential. If no mass lesion is identified, imaging should be repeated after 6-12 months so that slow growing germ cell tumors are not missed. Idiopathic and familial AVP-D are often associated with loss of the normal hyper-intense signal of the posterior pituitary on T1-weighted images ( Figure 9 ). Signal intensity is correlated strongly with AVP content of the gland ( 118 ). In the absence of appropriate history and diagnostic testing, the loss of a posterior pituitary bright spot does not make the diagnosis of AVP-D. Importantly, presence of an appropriate bright spot does not exclude the diagnosis of AVP-D. Figure 9. Loss of the posterior pituitary ‘bright spot’ on T1 weighted MRI in hypothalamic diabetes insipidus. The normal posterior pituitary can be demonstrated as a ‘bright spot’ within the sella turcica on T1-weighted MRI (a). This increased signal intensity can be lost in hypothalamic DI (b). An ectopic posterior pituitary ‘bright-spot’ can be seen some cases of childhood onset hypopituitarism, implying failure to complete normal developmental migration. Function can be normal despite the aberrant position. Evidence of anterior pituitary dysfunction should be looked for in AVP-D, though it is relatively uncommon in the adult population. Interestingly, evidence of organ-specific autoimmune disease is relatively common in adult patients with isolated AVP-D, consistent with an autoimmune basis for the condition ( 119 ). TREATMENT OF HYPOTONIC POLYURIA Treatment of AVP-D The primary aim of treatment in patients with diagnosed AVP-D should be to reduce polyuria and polydipsia to levels that allow maintenance of a normal lifestyle. The treatment of choice for those with significant symptoms is the synthetic, long-acting AVP analogue DDAVP. The long half-life, selectivity for AVPR2 and availability of multiple preparations renders desmopressin an ideal treatment for AVP-D. Optimal dosage and dosing intervals should be determined for each patient. The available treatment options are the intranasal spray, oral tablets, sublingual tablets or a parenteral injection, in divided doses. Oral preparations provide greater convenience and are usually preferred by patients. However, starting with a
