The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


are the intranasal spray, oral tablets, sublingual tablets or a parenteral injection, in divided doses. Oral preparations provide greater convenience and are usually preferred by patients. However, starting with a nasal spray initially is sometimes preferable because of greater consistency of absorption and physiological effect, after which the patient can be switched to an oral preparation. After trying both preparations, the patient can then choose which they prefer for long-term treatment. A satisfactory schedule can generally be determined using modest doses of desmopressin. The maximum dose of desmopressin required rarely exceeds 0.2 mg orally, 120 µg sublingually, or 10 µg (one nasal spray) given 2–3 times daily. These doses usually produce plasma desmopressin levels higher than those required to cause maximum antidiuresis but reduce the need for more frequent treatment ( 120 ). Hyponatremia is the major complication of desmopressin therapy — a 27% incidence of mild hyponatremia (serum sodium 131–134 mmol/l) and a 15% incidence of more severe hyponatremia (serum sodium ≤130 mmol/lm) have been reported after long-term follow-up of patients with chronic AVP-D ( 121 ). Hyponatremia usually occurs if the patient is antidiuretic while continuing normal fluid intake. Severe hyponatremia in patients with AVP-D who are treated with desmopressin can be avoided first by monitoring serum electrolyte levels frequently during initiation of therapy and second, patients should be instructed to delay a scheduled dose of desmopressin once or twice weekly until polyuria recurs, thereby allowing excess retained fluid to be excreted. A recent publication showed that patients using this approach had a significantly lower the risk of hyponatremia compared to those who did not follow this approach (OR 0.4, 95%CI 0.3-0.7, p<0.01) ( 122 ). Desmopressin is a lifelong treatment. An exception is treatment of post pituitary surgery AVP-D. If the patient is awake and responds to thirst, thirst is a sufficient guide for water replacement. If the duration of AVP-D is transient, it is therefore acceptable to treat simply with fluid replacement, parenterally or orally. However, most patients who develop AVP-D require desmopressin 0.5 to 2 μg subcutaneously, intramuscularly, or intravenously. Urine output will be reduced in 1 to 2 hours, and the duration of effect is 6 to 24 hours. Care should be taken that hypotonic intravenous fluids are not given excessively after administering desmopressin, as the combination can lead to profound hyponatremia. Because there is always the possibility of developing the triphasic response due
