The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


hypotonic intravenous fluids are not given excessively after administering desmopressin, as the combination can lead to profound hyponatremia. Because there is always the possibility of developing the triphasic response due to pituitary stalk damage, it is recommended that polyuria should be recurrent before a decision to administer subsequent doses of desmopressin is made ( 123 ). Patients with hypernatremia due to osmoreceptor dysfunction (adipsic AVP-D) should be treated acutely with the same treatment as any hyperosmolar patient. The long-term management of osmoreceptor dysfunction syndromes requires a thorough search for potentially treatable causes, combined with measures to prevent dehydration. Because hypodipsia cannot be cured, the focus of management is based on education of the patient and family about the importance of regulating their fluid intake according to their hydration status ( 124 ). This can be accomplished most efficaciously by establishing a daily schedule of fluid intake regardless of the patient’s thirst, which can be adjusted in response to changes in body weight ( 125 ). As these patients will not drink spontaneously, daily fluid intake must be fixed and prescribed. If the patient has polyuria, desmopressin should also be prescribed, as in any patient with AVP-D. The success of the fluid prescription should be monitored periodically by measuring serum Na + concentration. In addition, periodic recalculation of the target weight (at which hydration status and serum Na + concentration are normal) might be required. Treatment of AVP-R Treatment of acquired AVP-R should target the underlying cause (e.g., correction of hypercalcemia or hypokalemia), if possible. If not, different approaches are possible. Low salt diet to minimize the osmotic load. For patients on long-term lithium therapy, amiloride prevents uptake of lithium in the collecting duct epithelial cells and thus the inhibitory effects of intracellular lithium on water transport ( 126 ). Hydrochlorothiazide has been shown to reduce urine output in both AVP-D and AVP-R ( 127 , 128 ). Thiazides decrease salt reabsorption by inhibiting the thiazide-sensitive co-transporter SLC12A3 in the distal tubule. The loss of sodium reduces plasma volume, so that less water is presented to the collecting duct and lost in the urine. In an animal model of AVP-R, use of the NSAID indomethacin reduced water diuresis independently of AVP ( 129 ). A similar effect of prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors was later reported in patients with AVP-R ( 130 ). Since these early studies, prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors have become an
