The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


( 129 ). A similar effect of prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors was later reported in patients with AVP-R ( 130 ). Since these early studies, prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors have become an essential component of the treatment of AVP-R. High dose DDAVP can produce a response in partial AVP-R. Treatment of Primary Polydipsia Treatment of primary polydipsia entails reduction of excessive fluid intakes, best done in a graded fashion to allow patients to slowly achieve a level of intake that reduced urine volume below polyuric levels (50 mL/kg BW). Measures to reduce mouth dryness (e.g., ice chips, hard candy to stimulate salivary flow) are useful adjuncts to reduce thirst. Pharmacologic therapies have been tried but without consistent evidence of success. A recent study suggests that GLP-1 analogues reduce fluid intake, urine output, and thirst perception ( 131 ). Treatment of Increased AVP Metabolism in Pregnancy Desmopressin is the only therapy recommended for treatment of increased AVP metabolism during pregnancy. Desmopressin is reported to be safe for both the mother and the child ( 132 , 133 ). During delivery, patients can maintain adequate oral intake and are therefore safe to continue administration of desmopressin. Physicians should be cautious about over administration of fluid parenterally during delivery because these patients will not be able to excrete the fluid and can develop water intoxication and hyponatremia. After delivery, plasma oxytocinase decreases and patients can recover completely or be asymptomatic with regard to fluid intake and urine excretion. Syndrome Of Inappropriate Antidiuresis Hyponatremia Hyponatremia (serum sodium <135 mmol/l) is a clinical feature in some 15–20% of non-selected emergency admissions to hospital. It is associated with increased morbidity and mortality across a range of conditions. Moreover, data support the association of hyponatremia correction with improvements in clinical outcome. The relationship of serum sodium and outcome is not straightforward. Co-morbidity and disease severity, rather than hyponatremia per se, may make a significant contribution to adverse outcome in these patients. Further data are needed to clarify whether the relationship between sodium levels and outcome is causal or the association of two variables linked with disease severity ( 134 - 137 ). Hyponatremia is not invariably associated with a low serum osmolality; high concentrations of other circulating osmolytes (e.g., glucose) can lead to fall in plasma sodium that is appropriate to maintain normal osmolar status. A reduced plasma aqueous phase secondary to dyslipidemia can result in artefactual hyponatremia with
