The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


glucose) can lead to fall in plasma sodium that is appropriate to maintain normal osmolar status. A reduced plasma aqueous phase secondary to dyslipidemia can result in artefactual hyponatremia with normal plasma osmolality, even when using an ion-specific electrode. This is consequent to the use of a standard dilution step in most clinical biochemistry laboratories. This type of artefactual hyponatremia is not seen when a direct potentiometric method is used, such as when using a blood-gas analyzer. In many clinical situations, hyponatremia is multifactorial ( Table 3 ). Table 3. Causes of Hyponatremia View in own window Pseudohyponatremia Reduced renal free water clearance Hyperglycemia, Hyperlipidemia, Non-physiological osmolyte, Elevated paraprotein Hypovolemia Cardiac failure Nephrotic syndrome Hypothyroidism Hypoadrenalism SIAD Nephrogenic syndrome of antidiuresis ●Drugs ●Renal failure ●Portal hypertension & ascites ●Hypoalbuminemia ●Sepsis ●Fluid sequestration Sodium depletion Renal loss ●Diuretics ●Salt wasting nephropathy ●Hypoadrenalism ●Central salt wasting Extra-renal loss ●Gut loss Excess water intake Dipsogenic DI Sodium-free, hyposomolar irrigant solutions Dilute infant feeding formula Exercise-associated hyponatremia AVP plays a key role in many pathophysiological situations of which hyponatremia is a feature. Importantly however, even when AVP plays a role in the development of hyponatremia, AVP production may not be inappropriate. Hyponatremia may reflect an appropriate physiological response to volume depletion. To maintain circulating volume in hypovolemia, baroregulated AVP release may proceed despite plasma osmolalities below the osmotic threshold for AVP release. This can result in hyponatremia, which can become persistent. Though clinical assessment can identify the extracellular volume status of some patients, it is unreliable and has poor sensitivity and specificity ( 138 ). PATHOPHYSIOLOGY AND DIAGNOSIS OF SIAD An individual with hypoosmolar plasma, a normal circulating volume, and a plasma AVP concentration high for the prevailing osmolality, has the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuresis (SIAD). The clinical criteria to diagnose SIAD go back to Schwartz and Bartter( 139 ) in 1967 and are summarized in Table 4 . Excretion of urine that is not maximally dilute in the context of dilute plasma (i.e., urine concentration greater than 100mOsm/Kg) indicates the action of AVP on renal water resorption. Importantly however, it does not define whether this action is appropriate (for instance in the context of hypovolemia and baro-stimulated AVP release) or inappropriate. Measurement of urinary sodium concentration is key in the differential diagnosis of SIAD from hypovolemia. Renal sodium excretion should be above 30mol/L to make a diagnosis of SIAD. Below this value, volume
