The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


urinary sodium concentration is key in the differential diagnosis of SIAD from hypovolemia. Renal sodium excretion should be above 30mol/L to make a diagnosis of SIAD. Below this value, volume depletion needs to be considered more likely and below 20 mmol/L, hypovolemia is the likely cause of hyponatremia. SIAD is often associated with urine sodium concentrations of 60 mmol/L or more. SIAD is a volume-expanded state and there is evidence of mild sodium loss as other homeostatic regulators of volume homeostasis attempt to minimize volume expansion. The utility of urinary sodium concentration in defining the etiology of hyponatremia is limited by concurrent use of drugs that produce a natriuresis: diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, and angiotensin II antagonists. In this situation, a serum urate <4 mg/dl, or a fractional urate excretion >12% can help differentiate SIAD from mild hypovolemia ( 140 , 141 ). Cortisol deficiency is a key differential diagnosis as secondary adrenal deficiency can present a biochemical picture identical to SIAD. Therefore, formal biochemical exclusion of adrenal insufficiency is mandatory before diagnosing SIAD. Four patterns of abnormal AVP secretion have been identified ( table 5 ). The same pattern has also been shown for copeptin ( 142 ). Absolute plasma AVP or copeptin concentrations may not be strikingly high and in fact AVP and copeptin measurement is not helpful in establishing the diagnosis ( 143 ). The key feature is that they are inappropriate for the prevailing plasma osmolality( 10 ). Table 4. Criteria for Diagnosis of SIAD View in own window Low serum osmolality <275 mOsmol/kg H 2 0 Elevated urine osmolality >100 mOsmol/kg H 2 0 (inappropriately concentrated) Clinical euvolemia (absence of signs of hypovolemia or hypervolemia) Elevated urinary sodium excretion >30mEq/L with normal salt and water intake Absence of other potential causes of euvolemic hypo-osmolality (glucocorticoid insufficiency, severe hypothyroidism) Normal renal function and absence of diuretic use Table 5. Classification of SIAD View in own window Characteristics Prevalence SIAD Type A ●Wide fluctuations in plasma AVP concentration independent of plasma osmolality 35% SIAD Type B ●Osmotic threshold for AVP release subnormal ●Osmoregulation around subnormal osmolar set point 30% SIAD Type C ●Failure to suppress AVP release at low plasma osmolality ●Normal response to osmotic stimulation SIAD Type D ●Normal osmoregulated AVP release ●Unable to excrete water load. <10% Etiology of SIAD Many conditions have been reported to cause SIAD, though the mechanism(s) of inappropriate AVP
