The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


SIAD Type D ●Normal osmoregulated AVP release ●Unable to excrete water load. <10% Etiology of SIAD Many conditions have been reported to cause SIAD, though the mechanism(s) of inappropriate AVP release are not clear in many cases ( Table 6 ). SIAD is a non-metastatic manifestation of small cell lung cancer and other malignancies. Some tumors express AVP ectopically. However, excessive posterior pituitary AVP secretion also occurs in association with malignancy. The normal osmoregulated AVP release found in the Type D syndrome suggests an increase in renal sensitivity to AVP, or the action of an additional antidiuretic factor. Table 6. Causes of SIAD View in own window Neoplastic disease Chest disorders Carcinoma (bronchus, duodenum, pancreas, bladder, ureter, prostate) Thymoma Mesothelioma Lymphoma, leukemia Ewing’s sarcoma Carcinoid Bronchial adenoma Pneumonia Tuberculosis Empyema Cystic fibrosis Pneumothorax Aspergillosis Neurological disorders Drugs Head injury, neurosurgery Brain abscess or tumor Meningitis, encephalitis Guillain-Barré syndrome Cerebral hemorrhage Cavernous sinus thrombosis Hydrocephalus Cerebellar and cerebral atrophy Shy-Drager syndrome Peripheral neuropathy Seizures Subdural hematoma Alcohol withdrawal Sulphonylureas Alkylating agents & Vinca alkaloids Thiazide diuretics Dopamine antagonists Tricyclic antidepressants MAOIs SSRIs 3,4-MDMA (“Ecstasy”) Anti-convulsants Miscellaneous Idiopathic Psychosis Porphyria Abdominal surgery Diverse non-osmotic stimuli (e.g. nausea, stress, pain) SIAD is a common mechanism of drug-induced hyponatremia and can reflect direct stimulation of AVP release from the hypothalamus; indirect action on the hypothalamus; or aberrant resetting of the hypothalamic osmostat. The prevalence of hyponatremia in patients taking high dose dopamine antagonists is greater than 25% and is not restricted to one class of these drugs. Hyponatremia secondary to antidepressants is well recognized, occurring with most SSRIs, and the related drug Venlafaxine. It can arise in the first few weeks of treatment. Anticonvulsants are another common cause of SIAD and hyponatremia. The frequency in patients treated with carbamazepine (CBZ) ranges from 4.8 to 40%. Increased sensitivity of central osmoreceptors and increased renal responses to AVP have both been described with CBZ. Table 7. Mechanisms of Drug Induced Hyponatremia View in own window Reduction in free water clearance Sodium depletion SIAD Dopamine antagonists Tricyclic antidepressants MAOIs SSRIs Venlafaxine Carbamazepine Oxcarbazepine Sodium valproate 3,4-MDMA (‘ecstasy’) Clofibrate Cyclophosphamide Sulphonylureas Diuretics Spironolactone Thiazides Loop diuretics AVP-like activity DDAVP Oxytocin ACE inhibitors/Angiotensin II receptor antagonists Potentiation of AVP action NSAIDS Carbamazepine Sulphonylureas Cyclophosphamide Direct renal toxicity Cyclophosphamide Ifosfamide Cisplatin Carboplatin Vincristine Vinblastine Exercise Associated Hyponatremia Extreme endurance exercise is a profound physiological stressor. While the magnitude of the
