The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


action NSAIDS Carbamazepine Sulphonylureas Cyclophosphamide Direct renal toxicity Cyclophosphamide Ifosfamide Cisplatin Carboplatin Vincristine Vinblastine Exercise Associated Hyponatremia Extreme endurance exercise is a profound physiological stressor. While the magnitude of the physiological stress is likely to reflect a number of factors, duration of the event and the effort entailed are likely to be major contributors. Non-osmoregulated AVP release is a feature of extreme endurance exercise: a reflection of the stressed state. When combined with reduced renal blood flow, another feature of extreme endurance exercise, this can lead to a marked antidiuretic state. If endurance athletes maintain a fluid intake in excess of water loss, hyponatremia will ensue. This can be further complicated if there is aggressive fluid resuscitation in the event of collapse. There is a positive correlation between the odds ratio for developing hyponatremia during extreme endurance exercise and the length of time taken to complete the event. Athletes developing hyponatremia also demonstrate weight gain over the course of the event, clearly implicating water intake in excess of water and electrolyte loss as the cause. Occasional runners should be advised to follow their thirst as they run and avoid rigid, time-based fluid intake. Health professionals attending endurance events need to be aware of the problem of exercise-associated hyponatremia. In addition, they should avoid attempting resuscitation with large volumes of hypotonic fluid in the absence of appropriate indications and without biochemical monitoring ( 144 ). Figure 10. Exercise associated hyponatremia in triathletes. 1089 triathletes were studied. The mean plasma sodium level at the finish was 140.5±4.2 mmol/L (range 111-152). Among athletes completing the study events, 10.6% had documented hyponatremia: 8.7% mild; 1.6% severe; and 0.3% critical (3 athletes in total with plasma sodium levels 120, 119, and 111 mmol/L respectively). Multivariate analysis showed a significant association between development of hyponatremia and the following factors: female gender; longer times to complete a race. Critical hyponatremia occurred in participants who finished in the 12 th and 14 th hours of the race ( 145 ). Nephrogenic Syndrome of Inappropriate Antidiuresis The G-protein-coupled V2-R mediates the action of AVP on renal water excretion. Rare kindreds have been found that harbor constitutively activating mutations in the V2-R that lead to AVP-independent, V2-R mediated, antidiuresis associated with persistent hyponatremia ( Figure 11 ). This nephrogenic syndrome of inappropriate antidiuresis (NSIAD) was initially described in male infants with persistent hyponatremia in keeping with the haploinsufficiency associated with
