The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


with persistent hyponatremia ( Figure 11 ). This nephrogenic syndrome of inappropriate antidiuresis (NSIAD) was initially described in male infants with persistent hyponatremia in keeping with the haploinsufficiency associated with the V2-Rgene being on the X chromosome. However, subsequent studies have found the condition is not limited to males, expression of the condition being clearly identified in heterozygous females. The true prevalence of NSIAD is not known. However, as some 10% of patients with SIAD have been described as having undetectable AVP, it seems likely that at least some of these cases may be due to activating mutations of the V2-R ( 146 , 147 ). Figure 11. In vitro bioactivity of different V2-R constructs relative to wild type (WT) in a cAMP-dependent luciferase reporter system in the absence of AVP. The R137H construct is the V2-R found in X-linked NDI. R137C and R137L are receptor variants found in NSIAD. Constructs differ only by the amino acid at position 137. R137C and R137L found in NSIAD demonstrate constitutive, AVP-independent activity. R: arginine. H: histidine. C: cysteine. L: leucine. Cerebral Salt Wasting This acquired, primary natriuretic state remains a subject of controversy. It has been characterized as a combination of hyponatremia with hypovolemia associated with neurological or (more often) neurosurgical pathologies. The underlying mechanism(s) remain unclear, but increased release of natriuretic peptides and/or reduced sympathetic drive have been proposed. The diagnosis of cerebral salt wasting (CSW) hinges on the natural history: the development of hyponatremia being preceded by natriuresis and diuresis with ensuing clinical and biochemical features of hypovolemia. In contrast to SIAD, urea and creatinine are elevated and there may be postural hypotension. The simple observation of weight loss over the period in question can be helpful. SIAD can occur in the same group of patients in whom CSW has been reported. Both CSW and SIAD are associated with urine sodium concentrations greater than 40mmols/L. However, the natriuresis of CSW is much more profound than that of SIAD and precedes the development of hyponatremia. CSW is a particular concern for the neurosurgical patient in whom autoregulation of cerebral blood flow is disturbed and in whom small reductions in circulating volume can reduce cerebral perfusion. The management of CSW is volume replacement with 0.9% saline; while the cause-directed approach to SIAD would often involve restriction of fluid. The clinical and practice context, together with the opposed cause-directed management approaches to CSW
