The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


replacement with 0.9% saline; while the cause-directed approach to SIAD would often involve restriction of fluid. The clinical and practice context, together with the opposed cause-directed management approaches to CSW and SIAD can lead to significant tension. A cause-independent approach to the management of the neurosurgical patient with hyponatremia is often the practical and pragmatic approach to take: balancing management of hyponatremia with the need to avoid threatening cerebral perfusion and avoidable vasospasm ( 148 ). Importantly, in a prospective, single center study of 100 patients developing hyponatremia after subarachnoid hemorrhage not a single case of CSW was identified: hyponatremia was attributable to SIAD, glucocorticoid deficiency, or inappropriate fluid administration ( Figure 12 ). Therefore, CSW is probably a very rare condition. Figure 12. Hyponatremia after subarachnoid hemorrhage. Prospective study of 100 patients. Demographics, outcomes, and etiology of hyponatremia noted. SAH: subarachnoid hemorrhage ( 149 ). MANAGEMENT OF HYPONATREMIA SECONDARY TO SIAD The morbidity and mortality of hyponatremia secondary to SIAD are the result of disturbance in central nervous system (CNS) function: the combined impact of cerebral edema and direct neuronal dysfunction ( Table 8 ). While it is intuitive that the greater the derangement in serum sodium should be associated with the most profound neurological disturbance, the relationship between serum sodium and neurological function is not simple. Patients with marked biochemical disturbance may have mild symptoms if hyponatremia develops over a prolonged period. This reflects CNS adaptation: brain edema being limited by efflux of organic solutes. This adaptation can complicate the management of hyponatremia. Rapid correction of serum sodium following the gradual development of hyponatremia (which has resulted in a degree of CNS adaptation) can lead to significant changes in brain volume as the osmolar gradient across the blood-brain barrier alters. This can trigger CNS demyelination (osmotic demyelination syndrome, ODS). This is a rare but serious complication of hyponatremia and its treatment. ODS develops within 1-4 days of rapid correction of serum sodium, irrespective of the method employed to achieve it. It can even occur when sodium levels are corrected slowly. Risk factors for ODS are severe liver disease, potassium depletion, malnutrition, and profound hyponatremia, especially if <105mmol/L. Neurological manifestations include quadriplegia, opthalmoplegia, pseudo-bulbar palsy, and coma. Table 8. Clinical Features of Hyponatremia Secondary to SIAD View in own window • Headache • Nausea • Vomiting • Muscle cramps • Lethargy • Disorientation • Seizure • Coma • Brain-stem
