The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


Clinical Features of Hyponatremia Secondary to SIAD View in own window • Headache • Nausea • Vomiting • Muscle cramps • Lethargy • Disorientation • Seizure • Coma • Brain-stem herniation Management of Hyponatremia Associated with Severe or Moderately Severe Symptoms Hyponatremia associated with severe or moderately severe symptoms requires urgent management as an emergency. Treatment is cause independent. Treatment should be given priority over establishing the etiology of hyponatremia. The aim of treatment is to reduce immediate risk through increasing serum sodium to a level that decreases morbidity and mortality. Importantly, the rate of increase in serum sodium must be at a rate that does not result in harm through precipitating ODS ( Figure 13 ). The immediate target should not be to normalize serum sodium. Once the patient is stable, investigations to establish the cause of hyponatremia can begin, the outcome of which subsequently guiding cause-directed therapy ( 140 , 150 , 151 ). Figure 13. Immediate, cause-independent management of hyponatremia associated with severe or moderately severe symptoms. Previous strategies for the emergency management of hyponatremia have stratified patients based on presumed duration of the electrolyte disturbance. Furthermore, some have advocated hypertonic fluid administration volume and rates based on calculated deficits in serum sodium using a standard formula ( 152 ). A more pragmatic and reliable approach to patient stratification is to base the decision on use of hypertonic fluid on patient symptoms and signs; while the determining hypertonic fluid prescription by calculated serum sodium deficit is associated with a significant risk of over-correction ( 153 ). Over-correction of hyponatremia (increase in serum sodium above the recommended rate) should prompt review of the fluid regimen and consideration of active management with hypotonic fluid, with or without concurrent use of DDAVP ( 140 , 154 ). Two recent studies have compared bolus versus infusion hypertonic saline, both in favor of a bolus regimen. An Irish observational study compared outcomes for 22 hyponatremic patients treated with bolus 100ml 3% NaCl, compared to a historical cohort of 28 patients managed with 20ml/hour 3% NaCl infusion ( 155 ). Bolus hypertonic saline was associated with a faster elevation of serum sodium at 6 hours and significantly greater improvement in Glasgow Coma Scale at 6 hours. There were no cases of ODS in either group. A larger randomized trial from Korea included 178 patients with hyponatremia who were randomized to either bolus or
