The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


at 6 hours. There were no cases of ODS in either group. A larger randomized trial from Korea included 178 patients with hyponatremia who were randomized to either bolus or infusion NaCl 3% ( 156 ). The results showed that both therapies were effective and safe, with no significant difference in overcorrection risk, but there was less need for therapeutic relowering in the bolus group compared to the slow continuous infusion. Bolus therapy is therefore currently recommended in guidelines. Management of SIAD Associated with Mild to Moderate Symptoms Fluid restriction : Fluid restriction of 0.5–1L/day is the first-line treatment recommended by EU and US guidelines ( 157 ). It is a reasonable initial intervention when the clinical condition is not critical. All fluids need to be included in the restriction. As SIAD is associated with a degree of natriuresis, sodium intake should be maintained. Fluid restriction may need to be maintained for several days before sodium levels normalize and it is important that a negative fluid balance is confirmed during this period. As cause-directed therapy progresses (e.g., treatment of underlying infection or removal of drug causing SIAD), fluid restriction may be relaxed. A recent randomized controlled trial evaluated the efficacy of fluid restriction in comparison to no treatment showing a modest early rise in serum sodium of 3mmol/L in fluid restricted patients compared to 1mmol/L with no treatment. Similar results were seen in other recent trials ( 158 ). Of note, fluid restriction is not always effective, and a clinically useful response is only seen in around half of hyponatremic patients. In a large hyponatremia registry fluid restriction was unsuccessful in 55% of cases ( 159 ). Factors predicting a poor response to fluid restriction include high urine osmolality (>500 mosm/L), and high urine sodium concentration (or high urine/serum electrolyte ratio i.e. (UNa + UK)/pNa > 1, i.e., ‘Furst equation’) ( 150 , 160 , 161 ). Drug treatment in SIAD: If patients do not respond to fluid restriction, a second-line treatment has to be initiated. There are several different possibilities, which are discussed in the following. Urea: Urea is a product of hepatic nitrogen metabolism which is renally excreted and has an osmotic effect to promote free water excretion. It is recommended as a second line treatment in the European and US guidelines( 140 , 150 ). The evidence base for the use of urea is limited due to
