The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


It is recommended as a second line treatment in the European and US guidelines( 140 , 150 ). The evidence base for the use of urea is limited due to the retrospective observational nature of most current studies. In fact, there are several observational studies of urea, but no randomized trials to date. A retrospective observational trial reported a mean increase in sodium levels of 7 mmol/L over 4 days, with no instances of rapid correction ( 162 ). Another retrospective study reported that the majority of patients normalized sodium levels within 48 hours despite fluid intake >2 L/day ( 163 ). Finally, in patients with SIAD in the context of subarachnoid hemorrhage urea treatment led to sodium normalization within a mean time of 3 days ( 164 ). A recent systematic review of the use of urea in SIAD suggested that despite the lack of randomized clinical trials, lower-quality evidence was identified that suggests that urea may be an effective, safe, and inexpensive treatment modality that warrants further exploration ( 164a ). Although overcorrection has been described, there have been no published cases of ODS due to urea therapy. The main limitations are the difficult access and poor palatability due to bitter taste, which can be ameliorated by combining it with a small volume of orange juice. Urea therapy can cause an increase in serum urea concentration and blood urea nitrogen, but this does not necessarily represent deterioration in renal function or hypovolemia ( 162 ). Tolvaptan: Tolvaptan is an oral vasopressin V2-receptor antagonist that blocks AVP action in the kidney, inducing water diuresis and thereby raising sodium levels. An intravenous alternative conivaptan is also approved, but its use is limited to a maximum duration of 4 days because of drug interaction effects with other agents metabolized by the CYP3A4 hepatic isoenzyme. The efficacy of tolvaptan versus placebo was investigated in the randomized placebo-controlled SALT-1 and SALT-2 trials in patients with chronic eu- or hypervolemic hyponatremia ( 165 ). The results showed that tolvaptan increased sodium levels within 4 days by 4 mmol/L compared to only 1 mmol/L in the placebo group and an even higher increase within 30 days. The American expert panel recommends its use as a second-line treatment, whereas the European clinical practice guidelines recommend against the use of tolvaptan in moderate to profound hyponatremia, mainly due to lack of proven outcome benefit aside from increase
