The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


second-line treatment, whereas the European clinical practice guidelines recommend against the use of tolvaptan in moderate to profound hyponatremia, mainly due to lack of proven outcome benefit aside from increase in sodium levels and the concern of overcorrection. Importantly, discontinuing fluid restriction when vaptans are started, initiation of treatment in the hospital, and regular sodium monitoring limit the risk for overcorrection. A lower initial dose of tolvaptan, 7.5 mg, which has been associated with lower rates of overcorrection, should also be considered ( 166 ). Common side effects of tolvaptan include dry mouth, thirst, and urinary frequency. SGLT-2 inhibitors : Sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitors are approved for treatment of diabetes and heart failure but may also be beneficial in SIAD. The sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 in the proximal renal tubule is responsible for 90% of renal glucose resorption ( 167 ). Inhibition of SGLT2 leads to glycosuria, accompanied by an osmotic diuresis. A randomized trial of inpatients with SIAD compared 4 days of empagliflozin 25mg or placebo, in addition to fluid restriction ( 168 ). Plasma sodium increased by 10mmol/L over 4 days in the empagliflozin group, compared to 7mmol/L with placebo (p = 0.04). There was no hypotension or hypoglycemia observed. The relatively high sodium increment in the placebo group suggests that at least in some patients, reversible stimuli to AVP secretion may have been present. A second, randomized controlled cross-over study in 14 outpatients with chronic SIAD compared a 4-week treatment with empagliflozin 25mg/day to placebo, without concomitant fluid restriction. Empagliflozin treatment resulted in a serum sodium increase of 4.1mmol/L (p=0.004) compared to placebo. Treatment with empagliflozin was generally well tolerated with no events of sodium overcorrection, hypoglycemia, hypotension, urinary tract or genital infection occurring during the observation period ( 169 ). Future larger studies are needed to validate these findings. Loop diuretics and salt tablets: Loop diuretics block the Na+-K+-2CL- cotransporter in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle and decrease delivery of sodium and chloride to the kidney medulla, decreasing the medullary gradient necessary for water reabsorption in the collecting duct. Salt tablets are added to replace loop diuretic-induced sodium losses. They are listed in the European practice guidelines as a second line therapy for SIAD in combination with salt tablets. However, a recent randomized controlled trial comparing the effect of fluid restriction (FR) alone versus FR plus loop diuretics versus FR plus loop diuretics
