The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


SIAD in combination with salt tablets. However, a recent randomized controlled trial comparing the effect of fluid restriction (FR) alone versus FR plus loop diuretics versus FR plus loop diuretics plus salt tablets did not show a significant additive effect of loop diuretics or salt tablets ( 158 ). Acute kidney injury and hypokalemia were more common in patients receiving furosemide; therefore caution should be taken when adopting this strategy. Other options: Demeclocycline has been used for many years in management of hyponatremia of SIAD. It produces a form of Nephrogenic DI and so increases renal water loss even in the presence of AVP. There is a lag time of some 3–4 days in onset of action and the effect is unpredictable occurring in 33-60% of patients. Photosensitive skin reactions are a significant additional adverse effect. There are very limited data to support long-term efficacy and a systematic review did not find good quality evidence for its use ( 170 ). Lithium also induces nephrogenic DI and has therefore been tried as treatment for SIAD, however, due to adverse effects and questionable efficacy it is not recommended in European guidelines. Adipsic And Hypodipsic Syndromes Adipsic and hypodipsic disorders are characterized by inadequate spontaneous fluid intake due to defects in osmoregulated thirst. Patients deny thirst and do not drink, despite dehydration and hypovolemia. If the defect is mild, the resultant hypernatremia is often well tolerated. Severe disorders can lead to somnolence, seizures, and coma. Because of the close anatomical relationship of the osmoregulatory centers for thirst and AVP release, adipsic syndromes are often associated with defects in osmoregulated AVP release and Hypothalamic DI. CLASSIFICATION AND ETIOLOGY Four patterns of adipsic/hypodipsic syndrome are recognized ( Table 9 , Figure 14 ). Causes are outlined in Table 9 . Patients with the Type A syndrome osmoregulate around a supra-normal osmolar set point and are protected from extreme hypernatremia, as are those with the Type B syndrome. In Type C adipsia, osmoregulated thirst and AVP release are absent. Patients present with adipsic diabetes insipidus. Precipitants include rupture and repair of anterior communicating artery (ACA) aneurysm, as the osmoreceptors mediating both thirst and AVP release receive a blood supply from perforating branches of the anterior cerebral artery and ACA. Some patients with the Type C syndrome have constitutive low level AVP release and are at risk of dilutional hyponatremia. Causes of adipsic/hypodipsic syndrome are shown
