The Neurohypophysis: Endocrinology of Vasopressin and Oxytocin
KEYWORDS: avp, pubmed, hyponatremia, patients, plasma, oxytocin, water, vasopressin, sodium, fluid, release, free, siad, pmc, pmc free


cerebral artery and ACA. Some patients with the Type C syndrome have constitutive low level AVP release and are at risk of dilutional hyponatremia. Causes of adipsic/hypodipsic syndrome are shown in Table 10 . Table 9. Classification of Adipsic and Hypodipsic Syndromes View in own window Adipsia/hypodisia Syndrome Osmoregulated Thirst Osmoregulated AVP release Type A (essential hypernatremia) Osmotic threshold increased Normal sensitivity Osmotic threshold increased Normal sensitivity Normal non-osmotic stimulation Type B Normal osmotic threshold Reduced sensitivity Normal osmotic threshold Reduced sensitivity Normal non-osmotic stimulation Type C No response to osmotic stimulation Persistent low level AVP release No response to osmotic stimulation Normal non-osmotic stimulation Type D No response to osmotic stimulation Normal Table 10. Causes of Adipsic and Hypodipsic Syndromes View in own window Neoplastic (50%) Primary Craniopharyngioma Germ cell tumor Meningioma Secondary Pituitary tumor Bronchial carcinoma Breast carcinoma Granulomatous (20%) Histiocytosis Sarcoidosis Miscellaneous (15%) Hydrocephalus Ventricular cyst TraumaToluene poisoning Vascular (15%) Internal carotid artery ligation Anterior communicating artery aneurysm Intra-hypothalamic hemorrhage Figure 14. Patterns of plasma AVP and thirst responses to hypertonic stress in patients with adipsic syndromes. Normal range responses to osmolar stimulation are shown by the shaded areas. The 4 types of adipsic syndrome are demonstrated. Patients with the Type A syndrome osmoregulate around a higher osmolar set point, while those with the Type B syndrome mount AVP and thirst responses but with reduced sensitivity. Patients with the Type C syndrome have much reduced or absent AVP and thirst responses to osmolar stimulation. Those with the Type D syndrome demonstrate normal AVP responses to osmolar stimulation but much reduced thirst responses. MANAGEMENT As those with Type A and Type B adipsia are protected from extreme hypernatremia, treatment is to recommend an obligate fluid intake of about 2L/24 hours with appropriate adjustment for climate and season. If fluid balance cannot be maintained during intercurrent illness, hospital in-patient management may be required. The adipsic central diabetes insipidus of the Type C syndrome can be difficult to manage. The structural and vascular problems producing the syndrome often lead to associated defects in short term memory and task organization, complicating long-term management. A pragmatic approach is to effectively dictate an acceptable urine output (1-2L/24 hours) with regular DDAVP (producing a fixed obligate antidiuresis). Together with an estimation of standard insensible fluid loss (approximately 0.4L), this can be set to create a fixed net fluid loss of some 2Ls. In turn,
