NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: anakinra, disease, liver, arthritis, patients, pubmed pmid, pmid, pubmed, injury, rheumatoid, rheumatoid arthritis, onset, adult, liver injury, alt


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Anakinra. [Updated 2020 Apr 20]. Bookshelf URL: Anakinra Updated: April 20, 2020. OVERVIEW Introduction Anakinra is a recombinant interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor antagonist that has antiinflammatory and immunomodulatory actions and is used in the therapy of rheumatoid arthritis and other inflammator y arthritides. Anakinra is associated with a low rate of serum enzyme elevations during therapy and with rare instances of clinically apparent, acute liver injury. Background Anakinra (an a kin’ ra) is used to treat serious inflammatory conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis and cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes (CAPS). IL-1 like tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF) is a proinflammatory cytokine that plays a major role in the immune responses underlying local and systemic inflammation. IL-1 also is the dominant cartilage destructive cytokine. Circulating IL-1 receptor antagonists (IL-1Ra) modulate the effects of IL-1 and are synthesized in response to inflammatory reactions, acting to prevent binding of circulating IL-1 to its receptor and thus helping to terminate the proinflammatory reaction. Anakinra is a recombinant version of IL-1Ra produced in E. coli, differing from the natural cytokine antagonist only in being nonglycosylated and having the addition of a single amino acid (methionine) on its amino terminus. Anakinra has been shown to be a disease modifying antirheumatologic drug (DMARD) and to improve signs and symptoms and decrease cartilage destruction in rheumatoid arthritis. Anakinra was approved for use in the United States in 2001 and its current formal indications are for severe rheumatoid arthritis and the autoinflammatory conditions known as cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes (CAPS). It is used off label for idiopathic juvenile arthritis and other autoimmune forms of arthritis such as adult onset Still disease and macrophage activation syndrome. Anakinra must be given parenterally daily and is available under the brand name Kineret in prefilled syringes of 100 mg per 0.67 mL, which allow for doses between 20 and 100 mg. A typical regimen is 100 mg subcutaneously each day. Common side effects are local skin reactions, gastrointestinal upset, headache, arthralgias and possibly an increased incidence of bacterial infections. Less common but potentially severe adverse reactions include serious infections, reactivation of tuberculosis and hypersensitivity reactions. Hepatotoxicity In large registration trials, ALT elevations occurred in <1% of patients taking anakinra, a rate not different from that in placebo recipients, and no cases of clinically apparent liver injury with jaundice were reported. Since
