NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: anakinra, disease, liver, arthritis, patients, pubmed pmid, pmid, pubmed, injury, rheumatoid, rheumatoid arthritis, onset, adult, liver injury, alt


elevations occurred in <1% of patients taking anakinra, a rate not different from that in placebo recipients, and no cases of clinically apparent liver injury with jaundice were reported. Since its approval and more wide scale use, however, anakinra has been linked to several instances of acute liver injury. The onset was within a few weeks to up to 6 months after starting subcutaneous injections of anakinra and the 2 LiverTox elevations, high levels of ALT and AST and mild to moderate jaundice. Immunoallergic features were not reported and autoantibodies were considered due to the underlying conditions being treated. Liver biopsies demonstrated an acute hepatocellular injury with prominence of eosinophils. Most patients recovered within 2 to 8 weeks of stopping anakinra without evidence of residual injury, but some cases have been severe, protracted and associated with transient features of hepatic failure. Not all published cases of anakinra-associated acute liver injury have been very convincing; virtually all have occurred in patients with Still's disease in which acute liver injury can be a manifestation of the underlying condition or a component of macrophage activation syndrome, a potentially life-threatening complication of adult onset Still’s disease and other inflammator y arthritides. Furthermore, in many of the published instances, patients were taking other drugs capable of causing acute liver injury (such as high dose methylprednisolone). Anakinra has not been linked to reactivation of hepatitis B or exacerbation of chronic hepatitis C. Likelihood score: C (probable cause of clinically apparent acute liver injury). Mechanism of Injury Anakinra binds to circulating IL-1 and is metabolized peripherally, probably largely in macrophages. It is a polypeptide and has minimal hepatic metabolism. The mechanism by which it causes liver injury is unknown, but may be the result of its effects on the immune system. Outcome and Management The hepatic injury caused by anakinra is usually self-limited and resolves within a few weeks of stopping the medication, although some cases have been severe and protracted. Cases of fatal, acute liver failure, chronic hepatitis and vanishing bile duct syndrome have not been reported with its use. There is no reason to suspect that there may be cross sensitivity to hepatic injury between anakinra and other immune modulating biologic agents including agents that modulate IL1 such as canakinumab and rilonacept. Drug Class: Antirheumatic Agents Other Drugs in the Subclass, Interleukin Receptor Antagonists: Canakinumab, Rilonacept, Sarilumab, Tocilizumab CASE REPORT Case 1. Acute liver injury
