NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: anakinra, disease, liver, arthritis, patients, pubmed pmid, pmid, pubmed, injury, rheumatoid, rheumatoid arthritis, onset, adult, liver injury, alt


modulate IL1 such as canakinumab and rilonacept. Drug Class: Antirheumatic Agents Other Drugs in the Subclass, Interleukin Receptor Antagonists: Canakinumab, Rilonacept, Sarilumab, Tocilizumab CASE REPORT Case 1. Acute liver injury due to anakinra.(1) A 22 year old woman with suspected adult onset Still disease was treated with anakinra, which resulted in a marked improvement in the inflammatory arthritis, but was followed by the development of jaundice 3 weeks after starting the daily injections. Before starting anakinra, the patient had presented with a systemic inflammatory condition marked by fever, skin rash and polyarthritis that was diagnosed as being adult onset Still rate and serum ferritin in the absence of autoantibodies or rheumatoid factor. She was treated with high doses of methylprednisolone followed by oral prednisone (1 mg/kg) with little change in symptoms, and persistent fever and arthralgias. Anakinra was started in a subcutaneous dose of 100 mg daily, which was followed by symptomatic improvement and fall of ESR to normal within a week. The dose of prednisone was decreased to 30 mg daily and anakinra was continued. Three weeks after starting the IL-1ra therapy she developed fatigue and jaundice. She had no previous history of liver disease, alcohol abuse or risk factors for viral hepatitis. When she initially presented with fever and polyarthritis, serum aminotransferase levels were mildly elevated. At the time of presentation with jaundice, the serum total bilirubin was 6.8 mg/dL (6.6 direct), ALT 3346 U/L, AST 2386 U/L, GGT 538 U/L and alkaline phosphatase 300 U/L. Tests for hepatitis A, B and C were negative and Anakinra 3 abdominal ultrasound was normal, with no evidence of biliary obstruction. A liver biopsy showed an acute hepatitis with marked inflammation and necrosis without fibrosis or signs of hemophagocytosis. Stopping anakinra was followed by a rapid improvement in the liver injury, but two weeks later the reappearance of symptoms and signs of adult onset Still disease prompted treatment with intravenous immunoglobulin which led to a remission in disease. Key Points Medication: Anakinra (100 mg daily) Pattern: Hepatocellular (R=32) Severity: 3+ (jaundice, hospitalization) Latency: 3 weeks Recovery: ~2 weeks Other medications: Prednisone, folate Comment This patient developed acute hepatitis with jaundice 3 weeks after starting daily doses of anakinra for adult onset Still's disease. The pattern and course of the liver injury was quite typical of idiosyncratic drug induced liver injury and compatible with the type of injury that has been reported
