Familial hypercholesterolaemia: identification and management
KEYWORDS: people, healthcare, therapy, professionals, healthcare professionals, coronary, disease, children, concentration, treatment, risk, heart, coronary heart, heart disease, ldl-c


Overview This guideline covers identifying and managing familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH), a specific type of high cholesterol that runs in the family, in children, young people and adults. It aims to help identify people at increased risk of coronary heart disease as a result of having FH. Who is it for? • Healthcare professionals • Commissioners and providers • Children, young people and adults, and their families and carers Recommendations People have the right to be involved in discussions and make informed decisions about their care, as described in NICE's information on making decisions about your care. Making decisions using NICE guidelines explains how we use words to show the strength (or certainty) of our recommendations, and has information about prescribing medicines (including off-label use), professional guidelines, standards and laws (including on consent and mental capacity), and safeguarding. 1.1 Case finding and diagnosis See also the section on information needs and support. 1.1.1 Suspect familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) as a possible diagnosis in adults with: • a total cholesterol level greater than 7.5 mmol/l or • a personal or family history of premature coronary heart disease (an event before 60 years in an index individual or first-degree relative). [2008, amended 2019] 1.1.2 Systematically search primary care records for people: • younger than 30 years, with a total cholesterol concentration greater than 7.5 mmol/l and • 30 years or older, with a total cholesterol concentration greater than 9.0 mmol/l as these are the people who are at highest risk of FH. [2017] 1.1.3 For people with a personal or family history of premature coronary heart disease (an event before 60 years in an index individual or first-degree relative), but whose total cholesterol is unknown, offer to measure their total cholesterol. [2017] 1.1.4 Healthcare professionals should exclude secondary causes of hypercholesterolaemia before a diagnosis of FH is considered. [2008] 1.1.5 Use the Simon Broome criteria (see appendix F of the full guideline) or Dutch Lipid Clinic Network (DLCN) criteria to make a clinical diagnosis of FH in primary care settings. This should be done by a healthcare professional competent in using the criteria. [2017] 1.1.6 Refer the person to an FH specialist service for DNA testing if they meet the Simon Broome criteria for possible or definite FH, or they have a DLCN score greater than 5. [2017] 1.1.7 Healthcare professionals should be aware that the absence of clinical signs (for example, tendon xanthomata)
