Familial hypercholesterolaemia: identification and management
KEYWORDS: people, healthcare, therapy, professionals, healthcare professionals, coronary, disease, children, concentration, treatment, risk, heart, coronary heart, heart disease, ldl-c


a component of medical management, and not as a substitute for lipid-modifying drug therapy. [2008] Diet 1.3.2.2 All people with FH should be offered individualised nutritional advice from a healthcare professional with specific expertise in nutrition. [2008] 1.3.2.3 People with FH should be advised to consume a diet in which: • total fat intake is 30% or less of total energy intake • saturated fats are 10% or less of total energy intake • intake of dietary cholesterol is less than 300 mg/day • saturated fats are replaced by increasing the intake of monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats. It may be helpful to suggest they look at NHS Live Well for further practical advice. [2008] 1.3.2.4 Healthcare professionals should advise people with FH to eat at least 5 portions of fruit and vegetables a day, in line with national guidance for the general population. Examples of what constitutes a portion can be found at NHS Live Well. [2008] 1.3.2.5 Healthcare professionals should advise people with FH to consume at least 2 portions of fish a week (1 of which should be oily fish). Pregnant women with FH should be advised to limit their oily fish to 2 portions a week. Further information and advice on healthy cooking methods can be found at NHS Live Well. [2008] 1.3.2.6 Healthcare professionals should advise people with FH that if they wish to consume food products containing stanols and sterols these need to be taken consistently to be effective. [2008] 1.3.2.7 People with FH should not routinely be recommended to take omega-3 fatty acid supplements. For people with FH who have already had a myocardial infarction (MI), refer to the NICE guideline on acute coronary syndromes. [2008] Physical activity 1.3.2.8 Healthcare professionals should advise people with FH to undertake physical activity in line with national guidance for the general population (see the UK Chief Medical Officers' physical activity guidelines for more information). [2008] 1.3.2.9 Healthcare professionals should encourage people who are unable to perform moderate-intensity physical activity because of comorbidity, medical conditions or personal circumstances to exercise at their maximum safe capacity (see the UK Chief Medical Officers' physical activity guidelines for more information). [2008] 1.3.2.10 Recommended types of physical activity include those that can be incorporated into everyday life, such as brisk walking, using stairs and cycling (see the UK Chief Medical Officers' physical activity guidelines for more information). [2008] Weight management 1.3.2.11 Healthcare
