Familial hypercholesterolaemia: identification and management
KEYWORDS: people, healthcare, therapy, professionals, healthcare professionals, coronary, disease, children, concentration, treatment, risk, heart, coronary heart, heart disease, ldl-c


be incorporated into everyday life, such as brisk walking, using stairs and cycling (see the UK Chief Medical Officers' physical activity guidelines for more information). [2008] Weight management 1.3.2.11 Healthcare professionals should offer people with FH who are overweight or obese appropriate advice and support to achieve and maintain a healthy weight in line with NICE's guideline on overweight and obesity management. [2008] Alcohol consumption 1.3.2.12 As for the general population, alcohol consumption for adult men with FH should be limited to up to 3 to 4 units a day, and for adult women with FH up to 2 to 3 units of alcohol a day. Binge drinking should be avoided. Further information can be found at NHS Live Well. [2008] Smoking advice 1.3.2.13 People with FH, especially children, who do not smoke should be strongly discouraged from starting because of their already greatly increased risk of coronary heart disease. [2008] 1.3.2.14 People with FH who smoke should be advised that, because of their already greatly increased risk of coronary heart disease, they should stop. [2008] 1.3.2.15 Healthcare professionals should offer people who want to stop smoking support and advice, and referral to an intensive support service, in line with NICE guidance on smoking cessation. [2008] 1.3.2.16 People with FH who are unwilling or unable to accept a referral to an intensive support service should be offered pharmacotherapy in line with NICE guidance on nicotine replacement therapy and bupropion, and varenicline. See NICE guidance on smoking cessation, including NICE's technology appraisal guidance on varenicline for smoking cessation. [2008] 1.3.3 Specialist treatment LDL-lowering apheresis 1.3.3.1 Healthcare professionals should consider offering LDL apheresis for the treatment of adults and children and young people with homozygous FH (see recommendations 1.1.8 and 1.1.16). The timing of initiation of LDL apheresis should depend on factors such as the person's response to lipid-modifying drug therapy and presence of coronary heart disease. [2008] 1.3.3.2 In exceptional instances (such as when there is progressive, symptomatic coronary heart disease, despite maximal tolerated lipid-modifying drug therapy and optimal medical and surgical therapy), healthcare professionals should consider offering LDL apheresis for the treatment of people with heterozygous FH. This should take place in a specialist centre on a case-by-case basis and data recorded in an appropriate registry. [2008] 1.3.3.3 Healthcare professionals should recommend arterio-venous fistulae as the preferred method of access for people with FH who are offered treatment with LDL
