Familial hypercholesterolaemia: identification and management
KEYWORDS: people, healthcare, therapy, professionals, healthcare professionals, coronary, disease, children, concentration, treatment, risk, heart, coronary heart, heart disease, ldl-c


a healthcare professional with expertise in FH should offer to facilitate the sharing of information about FH with family members. [2008] 1.4.1.5 Healthcare professionals should offer people with FH and their families written advice and information about patient support groups. [2008] 1.4.2 Information and counselling on contraception for women and girls with FH 1.4.2.1 When lipid-modifying drug therapy is first considered for women and girls, the risks for future pregnancy and the fetus while taking lipid-modifying drug therapy should be discussed. This discussion should be revisited at least annually. [2008] 1.4.2.2 Healthcare professionals should give women and girls with FH specific information tailored to their needs and should offer a choice of effective contraceptive methods. [2008] 1.4.2.3 Combined oral contraceptives (COCs) are not generally contraindicated for women and girls being treated with lipid-modifying drug therapy. However, because there is a potential small increased risk of cardiovascular events with the use of COCs, healthcare professionals should consider other forms of contraception. Prescribers should refer to the summary of product characteristics of COCs and the relevant lipid-modifying drugs for their specific contraindications. [2008] 1.4.3 Information for pregnant women with FH 1.4.3.1 Healthcare professionals should be aware that, in general, there is no reason to advise against pregnancy or breastfeeding in women with FH. [2008] 1.4.3.2 Healthcare professionals should advise women with FH that lipid-modifying drug therapy should not be taken if they are planning to conceive or during pregnancy, because of the potential risk of fetal abnormality. Women should be advised that lipid-modifying drug therapy should be stopped 3 months before they attempt to conceive. [2008] 1.4.3.3 Women with FH who conceive while taking statins or other systemically absorbed lipid-modifying drug therapy should be advised to stop treatment immediately and they should be offered an urgent referral to an obstetrician for a fetal assessment. Women should be fully informed about the nature and purpose of the assessment. [2008] 1.4.3.4 Women with FH who have conceived while taking statins or other systemically absorbed lipid-modifying drug therapy and have had a fetal assessment should be given time, opportunity and full information to consider their options (including the advantages and disadvantages) of continuing with their pregnancy. [2008] 1.4.3.5 Shared-care arrangements, to include expertise in cardiology and obstetrics, should be made for women with FH who are considering pregnancy or are pregnant. Such care should include an assessment of coronary heart disease risk, particularly to exclude
