Familial hypercholesterolaemia: identification and management
KEYWORDS: people, healthcare, therapy, professionals, healthcare professionals, coronary, disease, children, concentration, treatment, risk, heart, coronary heart, heart disease, ldl-c


and obstetrics, should be made for women with FH who are considering pregnancy or are pregnant. Such care should include an assessment of coronary heart disease risk, particularly to exclude aortic stenosis. This is essential for women with homozygous FH. [2008] 1.4.3.6 Serum cholesterol concentrations should not be measured routinely during pregnancy. [2008] 1.4.3.7 Women with FH who are pregnant should be advised on the potential risks and benefits of re-starting lipid-modifying drug therapy for the mother and breastfed infant. Resins are the only lipid-modifying drug therapy that should be considered during lactation. [2008] 1.5 Ongoing assessment and monitoring 1.5.1 Review 1.5.1.1 All people with FH should be offered a regular structured review that is carried out at least annually. [2008] 1.5.1.2 A baseline electrocardiogram (ECG) should be considered for adults with FH. [2008] 1.5.1.3 Healthcare professionals should record the progress of cascade testing among the relatives of a person with FH as part of the structured review. This should include at least the first- and second-degree relatives- and, when possible, third- degree biological relatives. If there are still relatives who have not been tested, further action should be discussed. [2008] 1.5.1.4 Healthcare professionals should update the family pedigree of a person with FH and note any changes in the coronary heart disease status of their relatives as part of the structured review. This should include at least the first- and second- and, when possible, third-degree biological relatives. [2008] 1.5.1.5 Structured review should include assessment of any symptoms of coronary heart disease and smoking status, a fasting lipid profile, and discussion about concordance with medication, possible side effects of treatment the patient may be experiencing, and any changes in lifestyle or lipid-modifying drug therapy that may be required to achieve the recommended LDL-C concentration (see the section on management). [2008] 1.5.2 Referral for evaluation of coronary heart disease 1.5.2.1 Healthcare professionals should offer people with FH an urgent referral to a specialist with expertise in cardiology for evaluation if they have symptoms or signs of possible coronary heart disease which are not immediately life- threatening. A low threshold for referral is recommended. [2008] 1.5.2.2 A person with FH with symptoms or signs of possible coronary heart disease which are immediately life-threatening (for example, acute coronary syndrome) should be referred to hospital as an emergency in line with advice for the general population. [2008] 1.5.2.3 Healthcare professionals should consider offering people
