Familial hypercholesterolaemia: identification and management
KEYWORDS: people, healthcare, therapy, professionals, healthcare professionals, coronary, disease, children, concentration, treatment, risk, heart, coronary heart, heart disease, ldl-c


life-threatening (for example, acute coronary syndrome) should be referred to hospital as an emergency in line with advice for the general population. [2008] 1.5.2.3 Healthcare professionals should consider offering people with FH a referral for evaluation of coronary heart disease if they have a family history of coronary heart disease in early adulthood, or 2 or more other cardiovascular risk factors (for example, they are male, they smoke, or they have hypertension or diabetes). [2008] 1.5.2.4 Upon diagnosis, healthcare professionals should offer all adults and children and young people with homozygous FH a referral for an evaluation of coronary heart disease. [2008] 1.5.2.5 In asymptomatic children and young people with heterozygous FH, evaluation of coronary heart disease is unlikely to detect clinically significant disease and referral should not be routinely offered. [2008] Terms used in this guideline Adults with FH For the purposes of this guideline, 'adults' includes all persons with familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH; heterozygous or homozygous) who are 16 years and older. Cascade testing Cascade testing is a mechanism for identifying people at risk of a genetic condition by a process of family tracing. For FH, the test employed is a DNA test where a disease- causing mutation has been identified in the index individual or proband. Children and young people For the purposes of this guideline, 'children' refers to persons younger than 10 years; 'young people' refers to persons from 10 years of age up to the age of 15 years. The definitions used here are not prescriptive and healthcare professionals are expected to exercise their judgement and consider the wishes of the patients, and their families or carers when interpreting these terms in individual instances. Child-focused setting Child-focused refers to valuing the child's view and validating their voice in making decisions impacting their lives. A child-focused facility or space is one designed from the viewpoint of the service recipients. Coronary heart disease An event is defined as angina, acute coronary syndrome, myocardial infarction, need for coronary artery bypass grafting, need for percutaneous coronary intervention or definite coronary artery disease on coronary angiography. Dutch Lipid Clinic Network (DLCN) criteria or score A method of assessing whether a person has FH. It is based on personal and family medical history, clinical signs, LDL-C concentration and DNA testing. A score is attributed to each component; the higher the score, the higher the likelihood of the person having FH. Family history
