Familial hypercholesterolaemia: identification and management
KEYWORDS: people, healthcare, therapy, professionals, healthcare professionals, coronary, disease, children, concentration, treatment, risk, heart, coronary heart, heart disease, ldl-c


history, clinical signs, LDL-C concentration and DNA testing. A score is attributed to each component; the higher the score, the higher the likelihood of the person having FH. Family history The structure and relationships within the family that relates information about diseases in family members. First-degree relative A person's biological parents, brothers and sisters, and children. Heterozygous FH High LDL-C concentration in the blood caused by an inherited mutation from 1 parent only. People with FH are at increased risk of cardiovascular disease. High-intensity statin The following doses for statins are high intensity, based on the percentage reduction in low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol they can produce: • atorvastatin: 20 mg to 80 mg • rosuvastatin: 10 mg to 40 mg Homozygous FH Very high LDL-C concentration in the blood caused by an inherited mutation from both parents. When a person inherits exactly the same affected gene from both parents this is called truly 'homozygous' FH. When the mutations in the LDL receptor gene (or equivalent) are different, this state is called 'compound heterozygous'. In general, the overall effect in both states is similar, in that LDL-C concentrations are very high. Both groups of patients have the same clinical pattern and high risk of cardiovascular disease. For clinical purposes, both homozygous FH and compound heterozygous FH can be regarded as behaving in a similar manner. Therefore, for the purposes of this guideline the term 'homozygous FH' is used to also encompass compound heterozygous FH. Index individual (synonymous with 'proband') The original patient who is the starting point for follow-up of other members of a family when investigating for possible causative genetic factors of the presenting condition. Lipid measurements, concentrations and levels These terms refer to the measurement of total cholesterol (TC), triglycerides (TGs), high- density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), and LDL-C. LDL-C is not usually measured directly but calculated from the TC, TGs and HDL-C, ideally using a fasting sample. Such tests are usually done in a clinical biochemistry laboratory. Mutation An identified change in the DNA sequence of a gene that is predicted to damage the normal function of the gene and so cause disease. Pedigree A method of characterising the relatives of an index individual or case and their family relationship as well as problems or illnesses within the family. This information, often represented graphically as a family tree, facilitates analysis of inheritance patterns. Study of a trait or disease
