Familial hypercholesterolaemia: identification and management
KEYWORDS: people, healthcare, therapy, professionals, healthcare professionals, coronary, disease, children, concentration, treatment, risk, heart, coronary heart, heart disease, ldl-c


relationship as well as problems or illnesses within the family. This information, often represented graphically as a family tree, facilitates analysis of inheritance patterns. Study of a trait or disease begins with the affected person (the index individual). The pedigree is drawn as the relatives are described. One begins with the siblings of the index individual and proceeds to the parents; relatives of the parents, including brothers, sisters, nephews, nieces, grandparents, and so on. At least 3 generations are usually included. Illnesses, hospitalisations, causes of death, miscarriages, abortions, congenital anomalies, and any other unusual features are recorded. Premature coronary heart disease For the purpose of this guideline, this refers to a coronary event that has occurred before 60 years of age in an index individual or first-degree relative. Proband The affected (index) individual through whom a family with a genetic disorder is ascertained. Second-degree relative A person's biological grandparent, grandchild, uncle, aunt, niece, nephew, half-sister or half-brother. Secondary causes of hypercholesterolaemia Causes of hyperlipidaemia other than familial, including uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, obesity, excess alcohol consumption, untreated hypothyroidism and some medications, for example, thiazide diuretics and ciclosporin. Specialist centre The definition of a specialist centre is not rigid and is based on a combination of patient treatment services, numbers and ages of people attending there, the presence of a multi- disciplinary team (which may include, for example, physicians, lipidologists, specialist nurses, pharmacists and dietitians), the ability to manage the more unusual manifestations of the condition and the additional functions such as research, education and standard setting. Care is supervised by expert healthcare professionals but shared with local hospitals and primary care teams. Although details of the model may vary between patients and areas, the key is that specialist supervision oversees local provision with the patient seen at diagnosis for initial assessment and then at least annually for review. Tendon xanthomata A clinically detectable nodularity and/or thickening of the tendons caused by infiltration with lipid-laden histiocytes (macrophages in connective tissue). A distinctive feature of FH that most frequently affects the Achilles tendons but can also involve tendons on the back of the hands, elbows and knees. Third-degree biological relative A person's biological great grandparent, great grandchild, great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, grandnephew or grandniece. Urgent referral For the purposes of this guideline, urgent referral is as soon as possible with a maximum of 14 days. Recommendations for research The guideline committee
