Familial hypercholesterolaemia: identification and management
KEYWORDS: people, healthcare, therapy, professionals, healthcare professionals, coronary, disease, children, concentration, treatment, risk, heart, coronary heart, heart disease, ldl-c


grandnephew or grandniece. Urgent referral For the purposes of this guideline, urgent referral is as soon as possible with a maximum of 14 days. Recommendations for research The guideline committee has made the following recommendations for research. As part of the 2017 update, the standing committee made research recommendations on using different thresholds of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) concentration in primary care case finding and on long-term monitoring of sub-clinical atherosclerosis in children with familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) who are treated with statins (see below). The committee also made 3 other research recommendations, on secondary care case finding, cascade testing and the use of clinical scoring criteria. One research recommendation on identification using clinical registers was removed. Details can be found in the evidence reviews. 1 Using different thresholds of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration in primary care case finding What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of using different thresholds of LDL-C concentration in primary care case finding? Why this is important The clinical community recognises that FH is underdiagnosed, with prevalence more likely to be approximately 1 in 250 rather than the widely cited 1 in 500. Searching electronic primary care databases is an effective way of identifying people with FH. One of the ways in which people are identified through electronic primary care database searching is to search using total cholesterol or LDL-C concentration. Currently, the entire evidence base for identifying cohorts of people with FH through primary care case finding uses a total cholesterol concentration cut-off of 9.3 mmol/l. This is a very high concentration and anecdotal evidence suggests that this identifies older people but may miss younger people with FH. This could lead to missed opportunities to identify and treat people with FH at an earlier age. Research is needed to identify whether using different total cholesterol and LDL-C concentrations to identify people with FH through primary care database searching affects the diagnostic yield of FH. Additionally, there is a lack of data on the ethnicity, age and triglyceride concentration of people with FH identified through primary care database searching. These should be included as outcomes in future research. [2017] 2 Long-term monitoring of sub-clinical atherosclerosis in children with FH who are treated with statin therapy What are the long-term effects of statin therapy on sub-clinical atherosclerosis in children with FH who are treated with statin therapy? Why this is important Although statins are increasing in use,
