Familial hypercholesterolaemia: identification and management
KEYWORDS: people, healthcare, therapy, professionals, healthcare professionals, coronary, disease, children, concentration, treatment, risk, heart, coronary heart, heart disease, ldl-c


are the long-term effects of statin therapy on sub-clinical atherosclerosis in children with FH who are treated with statin therapy? Why this is important Although statins are increasing in use, there is still a lack of data on the long-term effects of statins in children. It is particularly important to determine any long-term adverse effects of statin treatment in a population with FH, as people generally take statins for the rest of their lives once treatment starts. [2017] 3 Lipid-modifying drug therapy in children What is the clinical effectiveness and safety of differing doses of lipid-modifying therapy in children with FH? Why this is important There have been no published studies to establish target serum LDL-C concentration in treated children with FH receiving lipid-modifying drug therapy. Treatment is recommended from 10 years onwards; however, this lack of data prevents a recommendation regarding the aim of pharmacological treatment on serum LDL-C concentrations. Research (both cross-sectional and longitudinal) should assess the evidence of end-organ involvement (for example, carotid intima medial thickness [IMT]) to determine at which age abnormalities can first be seen in children. The aim would be to identify a threshold effect, with an LDL-C concentration below which carotid IMT is normal and where thickening is absent, and above which it is abnormal and where thickening is observed. Outcomes should include fasting serum total and LDL-C concentration, carotid artery IMT, and growth and pubertal development. [2008] 4 LDL apheresis for people with heterozygous FH What are the appropriate indications, effectiveness and safety of LDL apheresis in people with heterozygous FH? Why this is important There is limited evidence to inform specific indications for LDL apheresis in people with heterozygous FH. In addition, there is limited published evidence on the cardiovascular outcome of such patients treated with LDL apheresis. Evidence on the value of investigations (various measures of vascular status, considered to reflect the extent or activity of atherosclerotic vascular disease of the coronary arteries) in predicting outcome from LDL apheresis should ideally be based on evidence from randomised controlled trials with clinical outcomes. It is difficult to identify a suitable alternative treatment because LDL apheresis is generally only considered in people for whom no other treatment is available. One comparator may be novel therapies with antisense oligonucleotides (ApoB). A national register should be established for all people with FH who are referred for and/or are undergoing LDL apheresis. Data should be
