Familial hypercholesterolaemia: identification and management
KEYWORDS: people, healthcare, therapy, professionals, healthcare professionals, coronary, disease, children, concentration, treatment, risk, heart, coronary heart, heart disease, ldl-c


be novel therapies with antisense oligonucleotides (ApoB). A national register should be established for all people with FH who are referred for and/or are undergoing LDL apheresis. Data should be collected on the natural history of FH and the temporal relationship of clinical and vascular features in relation to treatments and other parameters. [2008] 5 Pregnancy in women with FH What are the implications of FH for the safety of a mother during pregnancy and what are the risks of fetal malformations attributable to pharmacological therapies? Why this is important There is little information on the outcomes of pregnancy in women with FH. A small number of conflicting studies have suggested a small increase in fetal abnormalities if the mother has taken statins during the first trimester, but there are not sufficient data to provide an accurate estimate of the level of risk. There is also limited information on the risk of pregnancy (including cardiac death) in a woman with FH. Data on the incidence of cardiac problems in pregnancy and incidence of fetal malformation would inform future recommendations. This could reduce uncertainty for women, and help to identify risks during the pregnancy that could be better managed. The only feasible research method to address these questions is an observational longitudinal study following women with FH and other women (not diagnosed with FH) using statins through their pregnancies using a national register. [2008] 6 Cardiovascular evaluation for people with FH What is the utility of routine cardiovascular evaluation for asymptomatic people with FH? Why this is important Because of their inherent high risk of developing premature coronary heart disease, a low threshold of suspicion for coronary disease is recommended for people with FH. Routine monitoring to detect sub-clinical atherosclerosis should be non-invasive, sensitive, specific and cost effective. Research to assess the prevalence of both asymptomatic coronary and non-coronary atherosclerosis in people with definite heterozygous FH is required. As well as exercise, electrocardiogram (ECG) testing followed by stress echocardiography before possible angiography in people with an abnormal exercise test and ankle brachial pressure measures, research should include MRI in addition to other modalities such as carotid IMT and coronary calcification. Outcomes should include changes in exercise ECG or ankle brachial pressure testing, IMT or calcification over time. Consideration should also be given to the feasibility of conducting a long-term randomised trial to compare the differences in morbidity or mortality attributable to
