Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


body mass index (BMI) and suggested that an estimated 1.46 billion adults worldwide had BMI of 25 kg/m 2 or greater, of these 205 million men and 297 million women were considered obese ( 2 ). Indeed, between 1980 and 2008 the prevalence of adult obesity (BMI ≥ 30 kg/m 2 ) has risen in every sub-region of the world except for Central Africa and South Asia ( 2 ). The mean BMI increase was reported to be 0.4 kg/m 2 per decade for men and 0.5 kg/m 2 for women ( 2 ). Comparable data have been presented by the NCD Risk Factor Collaboration Trial ( 3 ). With a focus on industrialized countries, the most prominent increases of mean BMI have been observed in the United States, followed by the United Kingdom and Australia. The United States had the highest BMI of all studied high-income countries, recent data from the U.S. National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey indicate that obesity affects approximately 35% of the male and 40% of the female population ( 1 , 4 , 5 ). Similarly, populations of European and Eastern Mediterranean countries show an overweight prevalence of up to 50% ( 6 ). Further data indicate that compared to 1975, childhood obesity is much more common in 2016, with one obesogenic key driver in this group representing reduced physical activity ( 3 , 7 ). This continuous rise in the incidence and prevalence of overweight and obesity in children, adolescents, and adults in the past century has created major burdens for national health care systems worldwide. Obesity-related diseases are typically of chronic nature and include type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D), nonalcoholic/metabolic dysfunction associated fatty liver disease (NAFLD/MAFLD), peripheral artery and cardiovascular disease, sleep apnea, hypertension, as well as various cancers. In the United States, seven out of the leading ten causes of premature death and disability are represented by chronic diseases related to obesity ( 8 ). In fact, obesity is one of the most important avoidable risk factors for significant morbidity and premature mortality, leads to impaired quality of life, can elevate disability rates, and statistically reduces expected life span by seven years ( 9 , 8 , 10 , 11 ). The etiology of obesity is multifactorial, resulting from genetic and epigenetic, physiological, behavioral, sociocultural, and environmental factors leading to an imbalance between energy intake and expenditure ( 12 ). To
