Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


The etiology of obesity is multifactorial, resulting from genetic and epigenetic, physiological, behavioral, sociocultural, and environmental factors leading to an imbalance between energy intake and expenditure ( 12 ). To this end excess body fat consistently results from a period of sustained net-positive energy balance, followed by homeostatically regulated weight maintenance. The roles of diet and caloric intake in these processes have been the principal focus of most mechanistic studies. In countries with high obesity prevalence rates, nutritional quality is mostly poor, but there is a controversy as to whether increased energy intake alone can explain the obesity epidemic. Trends for improved dietary quality and reduced energy intake have been observed in recent decades in the United Kingdom and among parts of the U.S.-population ( 13 – 15 ). For instance, since the 1980s obesity prevalence has substantially risen in Great Britain, while caloric intake appeared to decline on a population level ( 12 ). In order to explain such findings it was hypothesized that if physical activity decreases, body weight may increase if energy intake is not altered ( 16 ). Therefore, under conditions of unchanged caloric intake, the amount of daily physical activity emerged as major predictor ( 1 , 17 ). Accordingly, the National Weight Control Registry of the United States has identified strategies for maintaining weight loss, which include engagement in higher levels of physical activity ( 1 ). Therefore, greater attention has been paid to addressing the energy expenditure side of the caloric balance equation, in particular with regards to prevention of body weight regain after successful weight loss. NON-EXERCISE ACTIVITY THERMOGENESIS: A SIGNIFICANT COMPONENT OF DAILY ENERGY EXPENDITURE Daily total energy expenditure (TEE) is the net amount of energy utilized by animals and humans to maintain core physiological functions and locomotion. Three main components of energy balance determine TEE: Basal metabolic rate (BMR), the thermic effect of food (TEF), also called diet-induced thermogenesis, and the energy expended for physical activity ( 18 ). Additional components may exist (e.g. energy costs of emotion), but apparently play a minor role with respect to energy balance ( 19 – 22 ). Multiple factors significantly affect our daily energy needs, including age, body composition, thyroid hormone status, catecholamine levels/sympathoadrenergic activity, ambient and body temperature, disease states, and certain medications ( 19 , 18 ). Basal Metabolic Rate Basal metabolic rate (BMR) represents the minimal amount of energy expended
