Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


levels/sympathoadrenergic activity, ambient and body temperature, disease states, and certain medications ( 19 , 18 ). Basal Metabolic Rate Basal metabolic rate (BMR) represents the minimal amount of energy expended to maintain all the body’s vital processes at rest (the basal state). BMR is essentially a function of lean body mass (LBM), which is estimated to account for 80% of BMR within and across species ( 23 – 29 ) . BMR is sometimes misinterpreted to imply the lowest level of energy expenditure during the day. This is, however, not true, since during sleep or undernutrition metabolic functions may be lower than that observed under basal conditions ( 27 ). In free-living individuals, BMR accounts for the main percentage of TEE ( Figure 1 ), in healthy subjects with mainly sedentary occupations it predicts around 60% of the variance ( 22 ). Otherwise it is proportionally larger in individuals with minimal physical activity (e.g., in sedated and ventilated patients on an intensive care unit) ( 30 ). Of note, it is not uncommon that the term resting energy expenditure (REE) is synonymously interchanged with BMR. However, BMR is measured in completely rested subjects, both before and during the measurements. Therefore, measurements are classically taken in the morning after 8 hours of sleep. Subjects should be lying supine, fully awake, and be fasted for at least 10-12 hours. The environment in which the measurements are taken should be thermo-neutral (22–26 °C) so that no thermoregulatory effect on heat production biases the results ( 19 ); and subjects should be free from emotional stress and familiar with the measurement apparatus ( 27 ). By contrast, REE is equivalent to postabsorptive energy expenditure at complete rest at any time of the day and can vary as much as 10% from BMR ( 21 ). Some studies suggest BMR is reduced in those prone to become obese ( 31 – 33 ). It is, however, a matter of controversy as to whether a reduction of energy expenditure due to a decrease in BMR sufficiently explains the positive net energy balance that contributes to excess weight gain in the majority of subjects who become obese ( 34 – 36 ). On the other hand, LBM can be enlarged or even preserved by means of regular physical activity, which in turn can favorably modulate BMR ( 1 , 37 – 39 ). Thermic Effect of Food
