Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


can be enlarged or even preserved by means of regular physical activity, which in turn can favorably modulate BMR ( 1 , 37 – 39 ). Thermic Effect of Food Thermic effect of food (TEF) is the increment of energy expenditure above REE following meal ingestion that reflects the energy cost (burned) during food digestion, absorption, and storage. It is a relatively stable component of total energy expenditure ( Figure 1 ). Thermic effect of food typically ranges between 8-15% of TEE and the variance of TEF has been associated with nutrient composition and energy content of consumed foods ( 40 ). Physical Activity: EAT and NEAT Physical activity is the second most significant contributor to TEE in most people ( Figure 1 ). It is defined as the additional energy expenditure above REE and TEF that is required for performing daily activities and therefore also called physical activity-related or simply activity-related energy expenditure (PEE/AEE). PEE/AEE can be categorized into exercise-related activity thermogenesis (EAT) and non-exercise activity thermogenesis (NEAT). Both vary widely within and between individuals. For the majority of subjects in industrialized countries, exercise is believed to be negligible ( 20 ). According to NHANES data, 36.1% of the studied US population was categorized as sedentary, while a further 47.6% were physically active at low levels ( 40 , 41 ). Remarkably, only around 16% of subjects in NHANES met recommended guidelines for physical activity or were highly active. Even so, the latter subjects did not necessarily exercise ( 42 , 43 , 41 ). Thus, it is reasonable to conclude that on a population level the percentage of subjects engaging in regular, intense physical exercise is low. In those who habitually participate in purposeful physical training, EAT is believed to maximally account for 15-30% of TEE ( 18 , 44 ). Other authors suggest that the majority of subjects undergoing regular physical training, defined as “bodily exertion for the sake of developing and maintaining physical fitness,” do not exercise more than two hours a week, accounting for an average energy expenditure of 100 kilocalories (kcal) per day ( 45 ). Such expenditure would contribute to only 1-2% to the variance of TEE. Taken together, for most human subjects EAT seems to not be a major contributor to TEE variance. Figure 1. Model of human energy expenditure components (adapted from ( 46 )). Exercise-related physical activity is comparable to
