Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


EAT seems to not be a major contributor to TEE variance. Figure 1. Model of human energy expenditure components (adapted from ( 46 )). Exercise-related physical activity is comparable to exercise-related activity thermogenesis (EAT), while spontaneous physical activity is comparable to non-exercise activity thermogenesis (NEAT); for further explanations see text. Note that parts of spontaneous physical activity are beyond voluntary control, also called “fidgeting.” Arrows symbolize the multiple and varying impacts of individual factors, genetic background, and environment. In contrast, NEAT comprises the largest share of daily activity-related thermogenesis, including for most subjects engaging in regular physical training. It is important to note that both NEAT and spontaneous physical activity are not interchangeable but represent complementary concepts ( 47 ): NEAT refers to energy expenditure, while spontaneous physical activity describes the types of bodily activity that are not defined as purposeful movements but still contribute to NEAT. Some authors categorize NEAT into three main subcomponents comprising body posture, ambulation, and all other spontaneous movements including “fidgeting” ( 48 ). Accordingly, a certain percentage of spontaneous physical activity (and therefore NEAT) is beyond voluntary control (e.g., “fidgeting”). NEAT corresponds to all the energy expended with occupation, leisure time activity, sitting, standing, stair climbing, ambulation, toe-tapping, shoveling snow, playing the guitar, dancing, singing, cleaning, and more ( 20 , 22 ). These activities do not characteristically involve moderate- to vigorous-intensity activities in comparable manner as voluntary exercise, but occur at a low energy workload for minutes and up to hours ( 12 ). The importance of NEAT becomes apparent when considering the following points: The variability in BMR between individuals of similar age, BMI and of equal gender ranges around 7-9% ( 49 ), while the contribution of TEF is maximally 15%. Thus, BMR and TEF are relatively fixed in amount and account for approximately three quarters of daily TEE variance. As EAT is believed to be negligible on a population level, NEAT consequently represents the most variable component of TEE within and across subjects. It is responsible for 6-10% of TEE in individuals with a mainly sedentary lifestyle and for 50% or more in highly active subjects ( 47 , 22 , 29 ). Taken together, with respect to body mass regulation and modification of energy balance, NEAT must be considered as a factor with potentially major impact. This is of particular interest in terms not only of developing therapeutic strategies
