Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


regulation and modification of energy balance, NEAT must be considered as a factor with potentially major impact. This is of particular interest in terms not only of developing therapeutic strategies for the patient with obesity, but also for designing obesity-prevention strategies for populations. The following sections will focus on these issues, including the environmental and biological modification of NEAT. Measurement of NEAT For a better understanding of the potential role of NEAT in the context of obesity it is essential to recognize the strengths and limitations of available techniques used for the quantification of NEAT. NEAT can be principally measured by two approaches: 1) by assessing total NEAT, and 2) by using the factorial approach (for extensive reviews of available techniques see ( 50 , 51 )). TOTAL NEAT Assuming that EAT is negligible, total NEAT can be calculated by subtracting BMR and TEF from TEE ( 16 ): Equation 1: NEAT = TEE – (BMR + TEF) To complete equation 1, TEE, BMR and TEF need to be measured. Under free-living conditions TEE can be reliably measured by using the doubly-labeled water method ( 16 ). This approach requires the application of stable isotopes (deuterium/ 2 H 2 and O 18 ) containing water ( 2 H 2 O 18 ). The difference in the clearance rate of the two isotopes equals carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) production generated during energy production and thus represents quantification of TEE ( 52 ) ( Figure 2 ). One necessary precondition of the doubly-labeled water method is that the O 2 of expired CO 2 is in equilibrium with the O 2 in body water. Once ingested, O 18 will be readily distributed in the systemic H 2 O, H 2 CO 3 and CO 2 pools. 2 H 2 will be dispensed in body water and the H 2 CO 3 pool (equation 2). Equation 2: CO 2 + H 2 O ↔ H 2 CO 3 The concentration of labeled O 2 in body water will then decrease over time due to a loss of CO 2 with expiration, perspiration, and in excreted body water (urine). 2 H 2 is mainly lost through excreted body fluids, yet a small percentage can be incorporated into body fat or protein. Since body water becomes tagged with known amounts of tracers at the same time at the beginning of the measurement period, the
