Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


can be incorporated into body fat or protein. Since body water becomes tagged with known amounts of tracers at the same time at the beginning of the measurement period, the difference of elimination rates of both tracers equals CO 2 excretion. Doubly labeled water is usually administered at baseline after samples of blood, urine and saliva have been collected ( 21 ). Subsequent sample collections occur within 7-21 days after administration, when the isotopes are completely dispersed within body compartments. Isotope-ratio mass spectroscopy is used to measure 2 H 2 and O 18 enrichments in collected samples, which are needed to finally calculate CO 2 production. Thereby, TEE can be ascertained under free-living conditions with an error of about 6-8%. This error can be minimized by repeatedly gathering samples over the measurement period rather than relying on only two time points. Figure 2. Schematic picture of the doubly labeled water method. CO 2 , carbon dioxide; 2 H 2 , deuterium; O 18 , labeled oxygen. It should be mentioned that the study of TEE classically relied on direct calorimetry ( 49 , 18 ). Direct calorimetry, or direct measurement of heat loss from a subject, is achieved by using well-controlled environmental chambers. However, this requires participants to be confined to small rooms, which fails to capture the enormous variety of NEAT components in free-living individuals ( 21 , 22 ). By contrast, indirect calorimetry is an easily accessible and portable method commonly used to assess BMR, RMR and TEF. Indirect calorimetry is based on the principle that by measuring oxygen consumption ( V O 2 ), CO 2 excretion ( V CO 2 ), or both over a defined time span, the metabolic conversion of fats, carbohydrates, and proteins into energy can be calculated using established formulae ( 18 ). The net energy released is typically expressed as kcal or Kilojoule (kJ). The small percentage of physiological protein oxidation can be estimated by nitrogen excretion in urine, or can be neglected without adding a substantial error in subjects who are in stable nitrogen balance ( 18 ). Indirect calorimetry is accordingly one of the most commonly used approaches in clinical investigations, either in controlled metabolic-ward studies or in field settings. For instance, Levine et al. in their study on human NEAT applied indirect calorimetry to measure BMR and TEF ( 53 ). To measure TEF they provided participants with
