Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


settings. For instance, Levine et al. in their study on human NEAT applied indirect calorimetry to measure BMR and TEF ( 53 ). To measure TEF they provided participants with a meal containing a third of the subject’s daily weight maintenance energy needs. To estimate TEF over 24 hours, the measured energy expenditure area-under-the-curve obtained when they ate the standardize meal was multiplied by three ( 16 ). Alternatively, study protocols may ignore TEF as a non-substantial variable, or simply multiply TEE by 0.1 to yield a crude estimate. When sensitive techniques are not available, BMR can be alternatively estimated by using validated age-, gender- and population-specific equations. For instance, the Harris-Benedict equation is widely used in clinical settings ( 18 ). However, this equation was derived from about 300 healthy, normal-weight Caucasian adults between 1907 and 1917 and its application, therefore, has limitations ( 18 ). Substantial error could be introduced by applying it to an inappropriate collective, including subjects who are with obesity, which is also true for other validated equations estimating BMR ( 18 ). The physical activity level (PAL) is frequently used in studies to provide an index of activity when measurement of total NEAT is not possible. It is calculated by expressing TEE relative to BMR ( 15 ). Sedentary subjects in industrialized countries typically have a PAL of approximately 1.5 (see Table 1 ). The PAL rises to values of 2.0-2.4 with strenuous work and under certain conditions it can increase to values up to 3.5-4.5 ( 22 ). Using PAL, however, can also introduce significant bias in the assessment of NEAT, as under free-living conditions the cumulative error of PAL measurements can be as high as 7% ( 21 ). Table 1. Physical Activity Levels (PAL) Predicted From Lifestyle (from 16). View in own window Chair or bed bound 1.2 Seated work with no option of moving around and little or no strenuous leisure activity 1.4 – 1.5 Seated work with discretion and requirement to move around but little or no strenuous leisure activity 1.6 – 1.7 Standing work (e.g., homemaker, shop assistant) 1.8 – 1.9 Strenuous work or highly active leisure 2.0 – 2.4 THE FACTORIAL APPROACH OF NEAT MEASUREMENT Measuring total NEAT or using PAL provides no information regarding the individual components contributing to PEE/AEE. Therefore, the factorial approach is widely used to estimate NEAT constituents. Accordingly, all physical activities of
