Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


NEAT or using PAL provides no information regarding the individual components contributing to PEE/AEE. Therefore, the factorial approach is widely used to estimate NEAT constituents. Accordingly, all physical activities of a subject of interest are recorded over a defined time span, typically seven days. The energy equivalent of each activity is determined, and these equivalents are then apportioned according to the time spent by the individual with the respective activities. Finally, the data is totaled to get an estimate of the energy expenditure attributable to NEAT ( 21 , 22 ). The first step when using the factorial approach is the quantification of a subject’s physical activities. Several methods are available to obtain such information, including questionnaires, interviews, and activity diaries. These approaches might be useful for estimates of particular activities, such as those related to occupational duties. Otherwise, they have substantial limitations, including inadequate or incomplete data recording, alteration of habits during assessment periods, and others ( 21 , 22 ). Measuring NEAT is a complex task when intensities of transition movements and fidgeting-like activities are the matter of research interest. By applying a combination of direct calorimetry and motion detectors, Ravussins’s group have shown that there is a considerable inter-person variability of daily energy expenditure, even after adjustment for differences in LBM ( 29 ). A large percentage of this variability among individuals was due to variability in the degree of e.g., "fidgeting." Thus, estimation of fidgeting-like activities represents a substantial subcomponent under conditions of NEAT measurement. However, subcomponents such as “fidgeting” might not be captured by many methods. Levine et al. proposed an accelerometer method that could predict 86% of activity related energy expenditure for the posture and locomotion component of NEAT compared with a room calorimeter, but predicted only 50% of the variance in fidgeting and did not discriminate various types of fidgeting ( 50 ). Therefore, more technically advanced approaches have been developed. Among these are motion detectors, floor-pressure-pad displacement, cine photography, pedometers, accelerometers, and global positioning systems (GPS) ( 21 , 22 ). Recently, portable intelligent devices for energy expenditure and activity assessment were used to study subtypes of NEAT by the method of mechanical modeling ( 54 ). However, depending on the degree of sophistication, all these approaches have limitations. While data obtained from triaxial accelerometers typically found in wearable activity monitors is often used as an estimate of activity-related energy expenditure, they
