Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


of sophistication, all these approaches have limitations. While data obtained from triaxial accelerometers typically found in wearable activity monitors is often used as an estimate of activity-related energy expenditure, they only measure actual movements (not energy expended), and a combination of methods probably yields the most appropriate estimates ( 21 , 22 ). For example, energy costs of single NEAT components are typically measured by means of indirect calorimetry, for which highly sophisticated portable systems are now available. Alternatively, tables with listed energy costs of NEAT activities may be used. This latter method is convenient and inexpensive, but for similar reasons as pointed out for PAL, substantial systematic errors can be introduced ( 21 ). Similar problems will arise when NEAT is assessed by multiple linear regression approaches at a population level ( 55 ). Furthermore, principal problems ascend with the NEAT measurement per se , as little validated information is available concerning the time necessary to representatively assess spontaneous physical activity. Many studies report extrapolation of measured results of an individual’s energy expenditure obtained during a limited timeframe to longer intervals. In this regard, experienced investigators believe that measurements of approximately seven days will likely provide a representative assessment regarding a 2-4 month time span ( 21 ). Taken together, the difficulty of getting true estimates under free-living conditions is a major reason why available information on human NEAT physiology is limited. Representative studies are needed that are conducted over appropriate time spans (months) and utilize a combination of the factorial approach and total NEAT measurement to overcome major limitations in current estimates. Individual and Environmental Determinants of NEAT There is a close interplay between environmental factors and individual characteristics with respect to NEAT as discussed below. Effects of Occupation, Gender, and Age Highly physically-active individuals expend up to three times more energy in 24-hours than subjects with negligible bodily activity ( 56 ). As previously discussed, NEAT accounts for a significant proportion of the observed differences at the population level TEE. Thereby, occupation clearly represents the key determinant of NEAT ( 45 ). Indeed, NEAT can vary by as much as 2000 Kcal per day when comparing two adults of similar body size, lean body mass, age and gender ( Figure 3 ). For an average worker spending most of her/his time in a seated position, occupational NEAT is relatively low and associated energy costs range at a
