Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


gender ( Figure 3 ). For an average worker spending most of her/his time in a seated position, occupational NEAT is relatively low and associated energy costs range at a maximum of 700 kcal per day ( Figure 3 ). A comparable person working mainly in a standing position can increase their occupational NEAT to up to 1400 kcal per day, while an agricultural occupation would theoretically result in NEAT categories ranging around 2000 kcal per day or more ( Figure 3 ) ( 45 ). Thus, occupations relying on intense physical activity can expend 1500 kcal per day more than a sedentary job. Figure 3. The effect of occupational intensity on NEAT (adapted from ( 45 )). The data assume a BMR of 1600 kcal per day. This variation in daily NEAT between individuals and populations becomes even more accentuated when considering research from non-industrialized countries ( 57 , 58 ). For instance, a study by Levine and colleagues included more than 5000 inhabitants of agricultural regions of the Ivory Coast of Africa ( Figure 4 ). Figure 4. Gender- and age-dependent physical activity levels (time engaged in work activities) of people living in agricultural communities of the Ivory Coast in Africa (adapted from reference ( 58 )). Each subject was studied over seven days and all of their daily tasks were recorded by a trained evaluator ( 58 ). Several lines of available evidence regarding NEAT were established from this study. First, a substantial effect of gender was observed as women apparently worked more than men in these societal constructs. Women were responsible for more than 95% of domestic and for an additional 30% of agricultural tasks. Otherwise, men exclusively worked in agricultural occupations and had more leisure time, resulting in substantially lower NEAT than women ( 45 , 58 ). In contrast, men in Canada, Australia or the United Kingdom are reported to be up to three times more physically active than females, while data from the United States indicate comparable activity levels of genders ( 59 , 60 ). Even less data is available on NEAT in children, but in general boys seem to be reproducibly more active than girls ( 61 , 62 ). A second important observation from the study of Levine et al. is the fact that decreased occupational NEAT was observed with aging ( Figure 4 ) ( 58 ). An age-related
