Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


second important observation from the study of Levine et al. is the fact that decreased occupational NEAT was observed with aging ( Figure 4 ) ( 58 ). An age-related decline of NEAT had been previously reported across species ( 63 ). The underpinnings for this age-effect on NEAT in free-living humans has been reported by Harris et al. ( 64 ), who showed that the substantial decrease in elderly as compared to younger subjects was mainly attributable to the ambulation subcomponent of NEAT. Elderly subjects walked less distance despite having a comparable number of daily walking periods compared to their younger counterparts. Indeed, elderly subjects performed 29% less non-exercise activity, corresponding to three miles less ambulation per day ( 64 ). A further factor that should be considered to potentially impact NEAT could be sleep restriction. It was shown that subjects with 5.5 compared to 8.5 hours nighttime sleep opportunity had 31% fewer daily activity counts, spent 24% less time engaged in moderate plus vigorous physical activity and became more sedentary ( 65 ). However, the significance of these findings is currently limited to time spans over few weeks and it remains therefore unclear as to whether the results are also valid in terms of common problems, such as chronic sleep insufficiency or shift working. Although, some short-term experiments support the latter findings, conflicting data have also been reported on that matter ( 66 – 69 ). Future research will need to validate these associations and, if true, better understand mechanisms underlying restricted sleep time and alterations in PEE/AEE. Sleep restriction should be nevertheless regarded as potential biasing factor in future research projects on NEAT. Industrialization and Societal Status Industrialization and societal status are distinctive factors affecting NEAT. Urban environment and mechanization are associated with a decrease in daily physical activity. For example, it was shown that sales of labor-saving domestic machines (e.g. washing machines) and obesity rates are closely correlated in the U.S. population, while this association was not present with respect to energy intake ( 20 , 22 ). Furthermore, it is known that poverty and societal aspects comprising neighborhood and educational status are associated with increased consumption of energy-dense foods, which is thought to contribute to higher obesity rates reported in lower socioeconomic groups ( 70 , 71 ). Highly educated individuals report more leisure-time physical activity and are three times more likely to be physically
