Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


higher obesity rates reported in lower socioeconomic groups ( 70 , 71 ). Highly educated individuals report more leisure-time physical activity and are three times more likely to be physically active as compared to less educated individuals ( 20 , 22 ). Seasonal Effects Seasonal variations also play a role for NEAT. Time spent in activity is twice as likely during the summer as compared to winter months and contributions to activity from agricultural or construction work plays a greater role in the summer season ( 20 ). Together, available data indicate close relationships between environmental conditions and biological aspects of NEAT. Evidence suggests that the contribution of occupational activity to NEAT can vary by 2000 kcal per day. Since the accumulation of excess body fat is a result of positive energy balance, subtle perturbations of energy balance over sustained time periods are theoretically capable of contributing to unwanted weight gain. But once weight stability is again established at a higher weight, energy expenditure and energy intake need to be precisely matched to achieve a long-term persistency of body mass, as an error of 1% would lead to a gain or loss of 1 kg per year or some 40 kg between the ages of 20-60 years. Therefore, small alterations of energy balance by means of NEAT could theoretically result in significant effects with respect to severity of obesity in an individual and the prevalence of obesity in a population. Consequently, when considering how to influence NEAT as a strategy for the treatment or prevention of obesity, a central question arises: In what fashion does NEAT interact with another environmentally-influenced factor involved in energy balance, that of energy intake? Alteration of NEAT with Varying Energy Availability from Foods Alteration of energy balance is followed by multiple adaptations, but relatively few studies have addressed modulation of spontaneous physical activity and NEAT by variations in nutritional energy intake. The latter is part of the concept of adaptive thermogenesis ( 72 ). Adaptive thermogenesis refers to changes in REE, EAT and NEAT, which are independent of changes in LBM and are, instead, modulated by other factors, including increased or decreased caloric intake ( 72 ). With caloric restriction, both REE and non-resting energy expenditure substantially contribute to changes in adaptive thermogenesis ( 72 ). Interestingly, in most studies, alterations in adaptive thermogenesis in response to overfeeding are in large part explained by raised
