Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


expenditure substantially contribute to changes in adaptive thermogenesis ( 72 ). Interestingly, in most studies, alterations in adaptive thermogenesis in response to overfeeding are in large part explained by raised non-resting energy expenditure (e.g., NEAT). However, the individual ability to adapt NEAT to manipulations of energy balance is highly variable between subjects and situations, particularly with respect to overfeeding ( 39 ). But if an individual is able to generate a significant upregulation of NEAT in the face of positive energy balance brought about by an increase in food intake, they may be more able to prevent obesity ( 34 ). NEAT UNDER CONDITIONS OF OVERFEEDING As discussed above, by using a combination of direct calorimetry and motion detectors, Ravussin et al. have shown that the inter-person variability of TEE is considerable and remains significant even after adjustment for LBM ( 29 ). A substantial percentage of this variability is explained by differences in spontaneous physical activity including “fidgeting” ( 29 ). Fidgeting-like activities accounted for a range in energy expenditure of 100-800 kcal per day in the subjects. Interestingly, the researchers observed elevated spontaneous physical activity levels in subjects with obesity as compared to those who were lean, indicating a positive relationship with elevated body mass. However, the latter study was performed under isocaloric conditions and over a short observation period. Therefore, the importance of this report was to establish the significance of spontaneous physical activity for energy balance, but whether acute variability in energy intake affects NEAT was not addressed. In their “weight clamping” study, Leibel et al. ( 73 ) overfed adults who were lean and overweight/obese by 10%, or approximately with 5000-8000 kcal per day over 4-10 weeks, followed by a weight maintenance period. Body composition, fecal caloric loss, TEE, REE, TEF and spontaneous physical activity were measured using multiple technical approaches including indirect calorimetry, the doubly labeled water method, and activity trackers in a subgroup ( 73 ). They showed that maintaining a 10% elevated body mass induced a significant increase of TEE by 9±7 kcal per kg LBM per day in subjects who had not been previously obese and by 8±4 kcal per kg LBM per day in those who had formerly been obese ( 73 ). The majority of this rise in TEE was attributable to non-resting energy expenditure. The magnitude of this effect was comparable in those who had previously not been
