Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


( 73 ). The majority of this rise in TEE was attributable to non-resting energy expenditure. The magnitude of this effect was comparable in those who had previously not been obese and those who had been overweight or obese, indicating similar adaptations to overfeeding conditions ( 73 ). However, a related review pointed out the large inter-individual variability regarding the capability to adjust energy expenditure with overfeeding in the “weight clamping” experiments ( 46 ) and emphasized that in other human over-feeding studies there is a wide range of individual weight gain per unit of excessively consumed energy. Therefore, it can be proposed that some individuals show a remarkable capacity to increase energy expenditure in response to overfeeding, while others do not ( 46 ). It was further suggested that spontaneous physical activity, and accordingly NEAT, likely play an important role regarding the impact on body weight under such conditions. Levine’s group was the first to systematically investigate the effect of overfeeding on the individual ability to adapt NEAT in free-living subjects ( 53 ). Using sophisticated methods and measuring NEAT over a representative time span, the authors overfed 16 volunteers (12 males, 4 females; age ranging from 25-36 years) by 1000 kcal per day over their weight maintenance requirements (20% of the calories came from protein, 40% from fat, 40% from carbohydrates). The energy surplus was paralleled by a mean TEE increment of 554 kcal per day. In this study 14% of this TEE increase was attributable to a rise in REE, approximating by 79 kcal per day. A further 25% of the TEE increment (136 kcal per day) corresponded to an increase in TEF, probably due to the relatively high percentage of protein intake. The most prominent effect was, however, attributable to enhanced physical activity thermogenesis, corresponding to around 336 kcal per day. As volitional exercise of the study subjects remained at a constant low level and since the authors did not detect changes in exercise efficiency, they concluded that about 60% of the increase in TEE due to overfeeding was attributable to NEAT ( 53 ). Again, however, the change in NEAT varied remarkably between subjects, ranging from -98 to +692 kcal per day. The maximal individual increase of NEAT constituted 69% of the excessively consumed 1000 kcal per day in this study ( 74 ). Moreover, the change in NEAT was directly predictive of the individual
