Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


increase of NEAT constituted 69% of the excessively consumed 1000 kcal per day in this study ( 74 ). Moreover, the change in NEAT was directly predictive of the individual vulnerability or resistance to body fat accumulation ( 53 ). A recent randomized study enrolled young aged female and male participants with variable BMI (19-30 kg/m 2 ) and used gold standard methods to investigate not just the effect of caloric overfeeding, but also of protein intake on PEE/AEE ( 75 ). 140% of caloric needs including 5, 15, or 25% of energy from protein was fed for 56 days. Caloric overfeeding resulted in increased physical activity and correspondingly PEE/AEE including NEAT, even after adjustment for changes in body composition. By contrast, changes in physical activity were not related to protein intake. The authors concluded that increased PEE/AEE in response to weight gain might be one mechanism of modulating adaptive thermogenesis ( 75 ). But the results indicate also that the observed increase in activity was not likely effective at attenuating weight gain. Other recent reports have failed to detect compensatory increases in spontaneous physical activity during short-term overfeeding in humans ( 76 – 80 ). While in several cases, methodological differences make them less directly comparable to Levine’s study, ( 76 , 56 , 77 , 79 ), a study by Siervo et al. used state-of-the-art methods and applied a highly standardized 17-week protocol with progressive overfeeding from 20-60% energy in excess of maintenance needs ( 81 ) in lean, healthy men. Three sequential intervals of stepwise overfeeding were each separated by one week of ad libitum energy intake. In agreement with previous findings, between-subject variability concerning weight change during ad libitum phases was high ( 63 ). However, in contrast to Levine’s study ( 53 ), Siervo et al. failed to detect a significant systematic change in spontaneous physical activity ( 81 ). The authors therefore concluded that systematic elevations in energy intake induce very limited counter-regulatory responses in energy expenditure ( 63 ). In summary, these data underscore the highly individual compensatory response regarding adaptive thermogenesis to overfeeding. From Levine and Apolzan et al., supportive evidence is provided for the susceptibility to gain body mass under standardized overfeeding conditions and identifies an individual’s ability to adapt NEAT as a potential modulator ( 75 , 53 , 20 , 34 ). In accordance with findings of other overfeeding
