Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


overfeeding conditions and identifies an individual’s ability to adapt NEAT as a potential modulator ( 75 , 53 , 20 , 34 ). In accordance with findings of other overfeeding studies (reviewed in ( 74 )), adaptations in thermogenesis by changes in NEAT observed between individuals may explain why some individuals are particularly susceptible or resistant to weight gain. The potential impact of age on these adaptational mechanisms remains unclear and should be addressed by future research. THE IMPACT OF CALORIC DEPRIVATION ON NEAT While evidence with respect to systematic NEAT upregulation under overfeeding conditions remains somewhat controversial, TEE and spontaneous physical activity are consistently influenced with energy deprivation in the majority of available studies ( 72 , 80 ). This is of importance as most subjects who are overweight or have obesity try to lose body mass through various calorie-restricted dietary strategies. The first study to quantitatively investigate adaptive thermogenesis under conditions of food restriction was the Minnesota Starvation Experiment (reviewed in ( 46 , 49 , 72 )). This evaluation showed a marked reduction in TEE that was later reproduced by numerous studies, independent of pre-starvation BMI or method used to induce weight loss (reviewed in ( 72 )). For instance, Leibel et al. in a second arm of their “weight clamping” experiment evaluated the effect of a 10% body mass reduction, followed by weight maintenance at this level ( 73 ). While overfeeding was accompanied by a 16% increase of adjusted TEE, weight reduction from underfeeding induced a 15% decrement ( 57 ). As compared to overfeeding, it is well accepted that both REE and non-resting energy expenditure are affected by energy deprivation in humans and animal models ( 82 , 72 , 80 ). These findings are supported by results from the so-called Biosphere 2 experiment, where the authors demonstrated a major reduction of TEE and spontaneous physical activity with body mass reduction over a two-year time period, which persisted after six months of body weight regain ( 46 , 83 ). Demonstrated TEE reductions by adaptive thermogenesis in weight-regainers has been reproduced in other human studies ( 72 ). Of note, when subjects recover from starvation they spontaneously overeat and, moreover, if weight loss-induced adaptive thermogenesis persists (e.g. reduced NEAT), there is a significant risk of regaining weight and “overshooting” pre-starvation body mass ( 72 ). Thus, changes in non-resting energy expenditure with underfeeding (or
