Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


thermogenesis persists (e.g. reduced NEAT), there is a significant risk of regaining weight and “overshooting” pre-starvation body mass ( 72 ). Thus, changes in non-resting energy expenditure with underfeeding (or overfeeding) appear to occur in a direction tending to return subjects to their initial body mass and to conserve body energy as recently described in humans as so-called “thrifty phenotype” compared to a “spendthrift phenotype” ( 84 ). Regarding this, findings from a recent study in sedentary overweight females are of potential practical relevance ( 85 ). In this investigation, 140 pre-menopausal females reduced their body mass by an average of ~11 kg while undergoing a total of 800 kcal per day diet. Subjects were randomly assigned to one of three groups: no exercise, a structured aerobic training schedule, or an exercise program incorporating resistance training. Body composition, strength, TEE, REE and NEAT were measured using various approaches. One main finding was that TEE, REE and NEAT all declined with weight loss in the no-exercise group. Non-exercise activity thermogenesis was reduced by 150 kcal per day, which was equivalent to 27% compared to baseline levels. However, in subjects undergoing the exercise regimens only REE was reduced, while NEAT remained unaffected. Thus, since caloric deprivation appears to consistently decrease spontaneous physical activity, untrained subjects with obesity who plan to lose body mass by means of dietary intervention alone would be advised to engage in a concomitant exercise program so as to avoid negative effects on NEAT and mitigate weight cycling after reaching a lower body weight. Of note, the authors of this study emphasized that, consistent with the concept that “more is not always better,” exercising two days a week was capable of increasing NEAT but, paradoxically, an intense three days weekly schedule was followed by a substantial decrement in NEAT ( 85 ). At this end, one further study of Levine’s group should be considered ( 78 ). NEAT as measured by gold standard methods and posture allocation was evaluated in mildly obese subjects and normal weight controls over a period of ten days. This baseline evaluation showed a 164 minute per day longer seated time in obese compared to lean subjects. A subset of eight obese subjects then underwent an intentional weight loss program over a time span of eight weeks and thereby lost significant body weight. Posture allocation was measured for another ten days after intervention. Interestingly, the
