Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


an intentional weight loss program over a time span of eight weeks and thereby lost significant body weight. Posture allocation was measured for another ten days after intervention. Interestingly, the weight losing obese subjects did not further reduce their NEAT in this experiment ( 78 ). The latter study has several limitations, e.g., the small number of enrolled subjects and the relatively short intervention period when compared to some of the above-mentioned trials. Levine and colleagues themselves emphasized that it was a pilot experiment ( 78 ). The data otherwise suggest that interindividual differences in posture allocation could at least in part be biologically determined and are therefore not necessarily influenced in every individual by e.g., reduced energy intake over short time periods. Over- and underfeeding studies in identical twins indeed suggest an important role of genetics regarding the variability underlying body mass regulation ( 86 , 87 ). Specifically regarding NEAT, it is likely that due to the polygenetic nature of obesity, numerous pathways are involved in the regulation of spontaneous physical activity, as the latter has multiple environmental cues and affects a multitude of behaviors ( 8 , 88 ). Zurlo et al. have shown that spontaneous physical activity levels cluster in families and could prospectively help to explain the propensity for weight gain ( 89 ). Moreover, according to a recent review up to 57% of the variability of spontaneous activity has been attributed to inheritance ( 90 ). Otherwise, biological and genetic determinants can only partially explain NEAT variance. Models of human energy budgets related to exercise can provide a conceptual framework to better understand NEAT regulation in humans (reviewed in ( 39 )). For instance, the so-called independent model predicts that changes in basal TEE have no impact on the energy budgeted for behavior, e.g. spontaneous physical activity. This model is analogous to the factorial model of exercise in humans that assumes that exercise has an additive effect on TEE ( 39 ). In contrast, the allocation model suggests that the total energy budget is constrained, and therefore, an increase in the energy cost related to maintaining basal functions will reduce the amount of available energy to support other functions, finally altering an individual’s behavior ( 39 ). The independent model would for example predict that exercise additively increases TEE, while the allocation model predicts that exercise leads to a reduction in some components, e.g.,
