Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


( 39 ). The independent model would for example predict that exercise additively increases TEE, while the allocation model predicts that exercise leads to a reduction in some components, e.g., NEAT. Indeed there is evidence that each of these models is evident in different human populations, although studies suggest that e.g. allocation may be affected by confounders such as age (older more likely to reallocate), sex (males more likely to reallocate), and exercise volume (allocation more likely with higher volumes) ( 39 ). Such aspects have to be considered and could help to integratively explain the contradictory findings of Levine et al. and from other researchers. In summary, an integrative view of existing human overfeeding studies proposes that the magnitude of adaptations regarding energy expenditure varies largely between individuals. Subjects capable of responding with increased spontaneous physical activity to overfeeding can be categorized as “compensators” and are therefore less susceptible to obesity (“spendthrift phenotype”). Subjects unable to respond to a continued energy surplus with increased NEAT (e.g., “non-compensators” or “thrifty phenotype”) seemingly represent the majority of subjects on a population level, of which a major percentage will attempt dietary weight-loss strategies at some time in their lives. However, REE and non-resting energy expenditure including NEAT are reduced with underfeeding in the majority of subjects. They therefore represent a risk factor for weight regain after dietary intervention. Mild voluntary exercise during and maybe shortly after periods of dietary weight loss could be a promising strategy to avoid decreases in NEAT, although this alone will probably not fully compensate for the obligate decline in REE. Whether the majority of dieting subjects with obesity will continuously adhere to a structured exercise program during extended periods of weight maintenance as suggested by current recommendations is also uncertain (and unlikely) ( 42 , 8 , 43 , 41 ). Therefore, to advance anti-obesity strategies that systematically increase or even conserve NEAT it is essential to understand the mechanisms contributing to regulation of spontaneous physical activity. PHYSIOLOGICAL AND MOLECULAR DETERMINANTS OF NEAT Principles of NEAT Regulation The ability to adapt thermogenesis, and specifically NEAT, presupposes existing mechanisms in the body that sense, accumulate, and integrate internal and external directionality signals with respect to energy balance ( 20 ). Figure 5 shows a proposed model of the principal regulation of spontaneous physical activity and correspondingly NEAT. In this model, physiological data regarding caloric intake, energy depots and
