Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


20 ). Figure 5 shows a proposed model of the principal regulation of spontaneous physical activity and correspondingly NEAT. In this model, physiological data regarding caloric intake, energy depots and energy expenditure are compiled centrally by the brain. These signals converge at the data acquisition center, are rectified to a common signal, and directed to a NEAT accumulator, which is constantly summing the net amount of NEAT per unit of time. The latter continuously refers to the energy balance integrator, which, in turn, modulates spontaneous physical activity in response to changes in energy intake. Thereby, energy balance resulting from these three components is in constant flux. Figure 5. The NEAT hypothesis of energy balance (adapted from ( 20 )). Continuous arrows represent energy flow through the system, broken arrows stand for putative signaling pathways. BMR, basal metabolic rate; NEAT, non-exercise activity thermogenesis; TEF, thermic effect of food. For example, under circumstances of positive energy balance during increased food intake, the energy balance integrator may mediate deposition of the caloric surplus in energy stores (adipose tissue) or alternatively dissipate the excess energy in the form of NEAT. More likely, since BMR is essentially fixed, some energy will be spent on food digestion and absorption (increased TEF), some will be deposited as body fat or in other depots, and the rest will be dissipated as NEAT ( 20 ). This model also supports the observation that although BMI and energy balance are continuously oscillating around a weight set point (or “set range”) under daily life conditions, body mass is remarkably stable in the long term. This is exemplified by data from the Framingham Study showing a mean body mass increase of only 10% over a 20 year time span in average adults (cited in ( 91 , 92 )). Thus, it appears that the regulation of energy balance and body mass is realized by a complex network of precisely working auto-regulatory structures controlling effector systems, one of which being spontaneous physical activity. However, while ample available data detail the regulation of food intake, there is lack of information concerning the biological mechanisms driving NEAT ( 34 ). Most animal evidence supports the concept that NEAT can help to protect against obesity ( 93 ). Therefore, spontaneous physical activity has certainly potential for impacting body mass and energy balance. It is very likely that many of the biological systems involved in the regulation
