Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


93 ). Therefore, spontaneous physical activity has certainly potential for impacting body mass and energy balance. It is very likely that many of the biological systems involved in the regulation of energy intake are also involved in gathering and integrating information regarding NEAT and determining NEAT adaptation in humans ( 34 ). Tissues, Organs, and Central Mechanisms Involved in NEAT Regulation Several well-described central neuroendocrine systems are thought to regulate NEAT through interactions with peripheral tissues/organs known to affect energy balance ( Figure 6 ). Figure 6. Model for the neuroendocrine regulation of NEAT in the service of energy balance (adapted from ( 34 )). Multiple external and internal signals are sensed and integrated, whereby defined brain structures (e.g., arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus, area postrema and nucleus of the solitary tract of the hindbrain, dopamine pathway of the mesolimbic system) interpret a multitude of sensory cues of energy availability. The involved brain systems have multiple ascending and descending projections affecting the amount of physical activity through arousal and limbic pathways, and descending neural projections and endocrine signals to modulate the energy efficiency of physical activity. Thereby, the central nervous system could adapt NEAT to adjust energy balance under conditions of caloric excess or starvation. Ach, acetylcholine; AgRP, agouti-related peptide; CART, cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript; CCK, cholecystokinin; LC, locus ceruleus; MCH, melanin-concentrating hormone; NPY, neuropeptide Y; POMC, pro-opiomelanocortin; (P)SNS, (para-)sympathetic nervous system; SNS, sympathetic nervous system; TMN, tuberomammilary nucleus; VP, ventral pallidum. These associated neural mechanisms of brain regions involve a multitude of neurotransmitters and neuropeptides (for extensive review see ( 34 ) and ( 94 )). While all are important, this section will focus on the biological role of central orexin peptides as promising and potentially targeted regulators of spontaneous physical activity (for extensive review see ( 47 )). Experimental data indicate that injections of orexin A into defined brain regions reproducibly induce a dose dependent increase in spontaneous physical activity along with significant increments in NEAT. Moreover, current knowledge suggests a role for the orexin system in the control of arousal and sleep, and for reward and stress reactions. This has led to conduction of extensive research showing that the orexins A and B are produced by cleavage from a single pro-peptide ( 44 ). The majority of orexin A is synthesized in the lateral hypothalamus and perifornical area. Orexin A binds to two G protein-coupled receptors, namely
