Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


from a single pro-peptide ( 44 ). The majority of orexin A is synthesized in the lateral hypothalamus and perifornical area. Orexin A binds to two G protein-coupled receptors, namely orexin receptor type 1 (OXR1) and 2 (OXR2). OXR1 has high affinity for orexin A, while OXR2 has equal affinity for the A and B peptide. Receptor binding of orexin A is associated with increased intracellular calcium levels and followed by enhanced neuronal signaling ( 44 ). Physiologically, orexin A is capable of modulating spontaneous physical activity, food intake, and sleep as evidenced by an obesity-resistant rat model with high orexin A activity ( 34 ). These animals show more ambulatory and vertical movement, independent of age or food availability ( 34 ). Intriguingly, this rat model exhibits lower body weight gain when fed a high-fat diet, despite consuming significantly more kcal per gram body mass. From this study, it appears that orexin A simultaneously enhances feeding behavior and induces physical activity, but the consumed calories are outweighed by those expended with spontaneous physical activity ( 47 , 34 ). These data were confirmed by a mouse model with postnatal loss of orexin neurons ( 47 ). These mice exhibit hypophagia, decreased spontaneous physical activity, and develop spontaneous-onset obesity while consuming a regular chow-diet. Furthermore, in recent years so called DREADDs (Designer Receptors Exclusively Activated by Designer Drugs) have been developed and were applied to manipulate orexin neuron activity in specific animal models. Compared with previous work of targeted infusions of orexin and/or orexin agonists into the brain, the use of DREADDs allows for the sustained activation of the neurons of interest without needing to inject directly into the brain ( 95 ). A high-fat diet model was used to evaluate the effect of DREADDs on NEAT, since spontaneous physical activity can be decreased under such circumstances. It was shown that NEAT was decreased in animals on the high-fat diet, and was increased to the NEAT level of control animals following activation of orexin neurons with DREADDs ( 95 ). Thus, these preliminary results clearly support the hypothesis that the orexin signaling system could be a promising target of modulation by drugs. However, from the perspective of humans, data on orexin are currently scarce. Otherwise it was recently shown in a pilot study that plasma levels of orexin A correlated with physical activity levels including many NEAT features ( 96
