Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


orexin are currently scarce. Otherwise it was recently shown in a pilot study that plasma levels of orexin A correlated with physical activity levels including many NEAT features ( 96 ). Therefore, plasma orexin A could be considered as a biomarker of NEAT in future studies. Furthermore, the orexin system has been shown to be defective in the sleep disorder narcolepsy. Since obesity is a recognized comorbidity of narcolepsy in both animal models and humans ( 47 ), regulation of this signaling system has the potential to impact clinical endpoints, probably including the development of overweight and obesity. The Role of Peripheral Tissues for NEAT Regulation: Adipose Tissue and Adipokines Peripheral tissues are also believed to contribute to NEAT regulation ( Figure 6 ). That NEAT can be influenced by over- and underfeeding has been extensively discussed in earlier sections; but it is essential to also reconsider that longitudinal studies of fasting humans show significant decreases in adaptive thermogenesis with starvation, while refeeding may induce a variable elevation ( 72 ). These adaptations are likely the result of feedback mechanisms between thermogenesis regulation and energy depots ( Figures 5 and 6 ). It can be further hypothesized that adaptations of thermogenesis in response to fasting or overfeeding result, at least in part, from an adipose tissue-specific impact on thermogenesis (reviewed in ( 46 )). Indeed, studies of white adipose tissue (WAT) have led to the recognition that this energy store represents an important endocrine organ communicating with the brain through secretion of so-called “adipokines.” Accordingly, adipokines could play a role for NEAT regulation ( Figure 7 ) ( 97 ). Figure 7. Essential elements in the regulation of thermogenesis including effects of WAT (adapted from ( 34 , 98 )). BAT, brown adipose tissue; cAMP, cyclic 5” adenosine monophosphate; COX, cyclooxygenase; IL, interleukin; LPS, lipopolysaccharide; PAMPs, pathogen associated molecular pattern; PGE, prostaglandin E; PKA, protein kinase A; SNS, sympathetic nervous system; UCP, uncoupling protein; WAT, white adipose tissue. Leptin is such an adipokine signal that is the product of the rodent obese (ob) gene and human homolog ( LEP ) first characterized in 1995 ( 99 ). Due to its role regarding the sensing of energy stores and regulation of food intake, it was also suggested as an important signal with respect to adaptive thermogenesis (reviewed in ( 34 , 98 )). For instance, Dauncey and Brown studied ob⁄ob mice
