Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


food intake, it was also suggested as an important signal with respect to adaptive thermogenesis (reviewed in ( 34 , 98 )). For instance, Dauncey and Brown studied ob⁄ob mice lacking leptin production and their lean littermates at comparable body weights ( 100 ). Leptin-deficient mice expended less energy and showed less motor activity as compared to control animals. The energy expended relative to metabolic size was greater in lean littermates, who were also more active than the ob⁄ob mice. It was calculated that activity-related energy expenditure accounted for at least part of the body mass difference observed between ob⁄ob and wild-type mice ( 100 , 101 ). A central mediator of leptin action on NEAT partly includes the orexin signaling system, since the activity of orexin neurons has been shown to be modulated by leptin among other metabolic indicators (reviewed in ( 93 )). With respect to humans, Franks et al. have shown that fasting leptin levels were significantly associated with physical activity-related energy expenditure ( 101 ). Moreover, it was pointed out in a recent review that replacement of leptin in weight-reduced subjects was capable of reversing neuroendocrine adaptations that accompany caloric reduction as evidenced by an increase in SNS activity, suggesting that this component of the non-resting energy expenditure and adaptive thermogenesis is at least in part under endocrine control ( 72 ). In response to caloric restriction, the authors therefore suggest an adaptation model where in an initial fast “first set,” reduced insulin secretion and glycogen stores are accompanied by a reduction of both REE and non-resting energy expenditure within days, while in the long term, with maintenance of reduced body weight, a “second set” mediated by a drop in leptin levels becomes active that keeps energy expenditure low so as to preserve fat depots and maintain reproductive function ( 72 ). This endocrine action resulting from the drop in leptin levels with related activation of multiple pathways then enhances the risk of weight regain ( 72 ). Overall, available data suggest that leptin’s central actions include not only reducing food intake but potentially also increasing energy expenditure mediated, in part, through increasing physical activity levels (reviewed in ( 34 )). The potential role of leptin on NEAT in human obesity is of particular interest given the phenomenon of central leptin insensitivity under conditions of overfeeding and related obesity ( 102 , 103 ). However, it
