Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


on NEAT in human obesity is of particular interest given the phenomenon of central leptin insensitivity under conditions of overfeeding and related obesity ( 102 , 103 ). However, it must be also kept in mind that the leptin system represents only one component of peripheral tissue signaling that impacts NEAT. Other endocrine systems, such as thyroid hormone status, also have major influences on energy expenditure. For example, hyperthyroid rats have been shown to have significantly increased NEAT ( 104 ). Energy availability from food and internal energy stores, ambient and body temperature, and systemic inflammation are further determinants of thermogenesis regulation. In WAT, two relevant factors converge: WAT represents the principal energy storage depot and, under conditions of significant obesity, WAT is a site of low-grade inflammatory activity that contributes to systemic inflammation. Recent epidemiological data from humans support this hypothesis ( 105 ). It was shown that levels of systemic low-grade inflammation (e.g., circulating interleukin-6 and interleukin-1β) were related to non-exercise physical activity. Although no causal relationship can be drawn from these findings, inflammation is theoretically one signaling system involved in NEAT regulation. Signals from WAT can induce enhanced sympathetic nervous system (SNS) activity and affect downstream regulators of adaptive thermogenesis ( Figure 7 ). Indeed, experimental data indicate that NEAT is one component affected by WAT signaling ( 93 ). Related to the hypothesis of “adaptive thermogenesis”, Dulloo et al. in their review regarding human starvation and overfeeding suggest SNS as key regulatory effector mechanism ( 46 ). Of note, activation of brown adipose tissue, which has recently gained a lot of interest with respect to human obesity ( 106 – 108 ), is suggested to be an additional site of adaptive thermogenesis. Skeletal Muscle as Peripheral NEAT Modulator Skeletal muscle is a major contributor not only to REE, but also to spontaneous physical activity and has been newly recognized as important NEAT effector. Human subjects maintaining a 10% weight loss in response to caloric restriction have increased skeletal muscle work efficiency ( 92 , 109 ). This mechanism is believed to be responsible for the phenomenon that, even after adjustment for the reduced body mass, weight-loss maintaining subjects need proportionally fewer calories for performing comparable physical-activity tasks compared to before weight loss ( 92 , 109 ). Therefore, adaptations of skeletal muscle work efficiency can contribute to reduced NEAT after low-calorie induced weight loss. Several recent
