Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


tasks compared to before weight loss ( 92 , 109 ). Therefore, adaptations of skeletal muscle work efficiency can contribute to reduced NEAT after low-calorie induced weight loss. Several recent animal models are in line with this hypothesis ( 82 , 110 ). For example, a recent study in rats investigated the contribution of REE and non-resting energy expenditure to reduced TEE observed after three weeks of 50% energy deprivation ( 82 ). They reported a 42% reduction in TEE, even after correction for the loss in body weight and LBM ( 82 ). Moreover, 48% of the detected TEE reduction was explained by a significant decline in non-resting energy expenditure, e.g. spontaneous physical activity ( 82 ). Reduced baseline and activity-related muscle thermogenesis was also found in this study. Reduced skeletal muscle norepinephrine turnover as a surrogate of SNS drive and increased expression of the more energy “economic” myosin heavy chain (MHC) 1 isoform were identified potential mechanisms for the observed changes ( 82 , 92 , 109 ). Thus, according to these findings, restriction of caloric intake apparently not only suppresses spontaneous physical activity, but in addition reduces related caloric demand, which is mediated by reduced SNS activity to skeletal muscle and altered expression of MHC isoforms. These findings are supported by data from another recent animal study investigating rodents with “high intrinsic physical activity” and counterparts with “low intrinsic running capacity” under eucaloric conditions ( 87 ). It was found that animals with high intrinsic physical activity were lean, had lower skeletal muscle economy along with increased skeletal muscle heat dissipation during activity. This resulted in higher TEE and NEAT and was related to increased activation of skeletal muscle by SNS ( 110 ). Taken together, skeletal muscle is an intrinsic site for NEAT and not only of great importance quantitatively, but also represents an important effector system for NEAT mediated through modifications on the level of SNS activity and gene expression, particularly under conditions of altered caloric intake. Therefore, evidence indicates that NEAT is modified by a complex network regulation of central and peripheral systems. The latter involve a variety of redundantly organized immediate and delayed mechanisms, including central neuropeptides and signaling systems to and from peripheral tissues. Involvement of such biochemical signaling systems identifies spontaneous physical activity and NEAT as a potential site for pharmaceutical targeting. Pharmaceutical manipulation of such a system could be envisioned
