Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


peripheral tissues. Involvement of such biochemical signaling systems identifies spontaneous physical activity and NEAT as a potential site for pharmaceutical targeting. Pharmaceutical manipulation of such a system could be envisioned to either increase the amounts of activities people undertake, or elevate activity-related energy expenditure. TREATMENT OPTIONS FOR OBESITY AND RELATED DISORDERS: IMPLICATIONS FOR NEAT-ENHANCED LIVING As stated in the introduction, obesity is associated with a many adverse health outcomes ( 1 , 111 ). Energy expenditure in occupational activities has declined by a mean of 140 kcal/d since 1960 in the United States and this reduction is thought to account for a significant portion of the observed increase in mean BMI (reviewed in ( 1 )).The latter hypothesis is supported by observational data showing that reduced energy expenditure of 100 kcal/d below expected values corresponds to a 0.2 kg/year weight gain, of which 0.1 kg/year are fat mass ( 112 ). In addition there is ample evidence from epidemiological, cross-sectional, and longitudinal studies showing that individuals with higher physical activity levels have lower mean body weight, gain less weight and fat mass over time, and show reduced weight regain after intended loss in body mass ( 113 – 117 ). Moreover, regular physical activity can moderate or even eliminate weight gain among those carrying a risk at the FTO (fat mass and obesity associated) gene variants (( 118 ), reviewed in ( 93 )). It has further been evidenced that levels of habitual or spontaneous physical activity are positively related to reduced risk of major cardiovascular disease and premature mortality, while an increase of sitting time correlates with a raise in complications ( 119 – 123 ). Associations of NEAT with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus and NAFLD/MAFLD as Common Sequelae of Obesity In industrialized countries the daily time spent sitting is estimated to be 6-7 hours per day, which is closely correlated not only with obesity rates but also with the incidence of T2D ( 120 , 124 ). A plethora of data suggest, on the other hand, beneficial effects of lifestyle interventions on insulin resistance, metabolic control, pain and clinical endpoints in these patients (e.g. ( 125 , 126 ), reviewed in ( 127 )). In subjects with impaired glucose tolerance or prediabetes, lifestyle interventions have proven to decrease the incidence of T2D, of which prominent examples comprise the DaQuing Study, the Finish Diabetes Prevention Study, the Diabetes Prevention
