Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


glucose tolerance or prediabetes, lifestyle interventions have proven to decrease the incidence of T2D, of which prominent examples comprise the DaQuing Study, the Finish Diabetes Prevention Study, the Diabetes Prevention Program and others ( 128 – 131 ). This was newly confirmed by the lifestyle intervention and impaired glucose tolerance Maastricht (SLIM) trial, which has shown to impact clinical endpoints even four years after stopping the intervention ( 132 , 133 ). The prevalence of NAFLD/MAFLD parallels the pandemic rise in T2D. A recent meta-analysis indicates that on a global perspective more than 55% of T2D patients suffer from bland liver steatosis, while a further 37% show signs of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) (reviewed in ( 127 )). “NAFLD” was defined in the 1980s to describe excess hepatocellular lipid accumulation in absence of significant alcohol intake, autoimmune, or viral liver disease, and the course of this pathology was long believed to follow the so-called “two-hit hypothesis” ( 134 ). Manifestation of bland steatosis was defined as first hit, while histological signs of liver inflammation, fibrosis and hepatocyte injury were proposed as succeeding second hit (NASH). Insulin resistance has now been recognized as the most valid predictive parameter of NAFLD/MAFLD progression to NASH. Moreover, presence of insulin resistance puts these patients to an elevated risk of morbidity and mortality, while sedentary behavior constitutes a complementary risk factor and correlates with clinical outcomes (reviewed in ( 135 , 127 )). Since physical exercise is capable of improving and maybe reversing insulin resistance, while short term decreases in physical activity reduce multiorgan insulin-sensitivity and in parallel increase liver fat (reviewed in ( 127 )), it is reasonable to assume that physical activity represents a potent treatment modality for NAFLD/MAFLD. There is indeed some evidence from prospective controlled randomized intervention studies that liver fat can be reduced independently from changes in body weight by structured exercise regimens in a limited, yet significant manner, while effects on liver inflammation and fibrosis remain to be investigated (extensively reviewed in ( 127 )). Although no direct research of NEAT effects on NAFLD/MAFLD is currently available, one well-designed study using brisk walking as an intervention has shown reduced liver fat after 6 and 12 months ( 136 ). This suggests that low to moderate intensity activities potentially impact hepatic steatosis, which should be further evaluated. For weight maintenance purposes, current recommendations encourage subjects with obesity to engage in 200-300
