Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


suggests that low to moderate intensity activities potentially impact hepatic steatosis, which should be further evaluated. For weight maintenance purposes, current recommendations encourage subjects with obesity to engage in 200-300 minutes per week in activities as e.g. walking ( 8 ). Yet, patients with T2D show markedly reduced TEE (< 300 kcal per day), number of steps taken (<1500 per day), physical activity duration (<130 min per day), and activity related energy expenditure (<300 kcal per day) as compared to subjects without diabetes ( 137 ). Accordingly, only 28% of patients with T2D in the U.S. achieve the recommended physical activity levels and less than 40% engage in regular voluntary exercise ( 120 , 138 , 139 ). In line with this, recent observational studies have shown that reduced NEAT is related to measures of insulin resistance, glycated hemoglobin A1c, and other features of the metabolic syndrome, consistent with the hypothesis that increasing spontaneous physical activity could be beneficial for those with T2D and NAFLD/MAFLD ( 140 – 142 ). This is supported by data coming from the Nurses’ Health Study showing that regular walking at normal pace (e.g. 3.2-4.8 km h -1 ) was associated with a 20-30% relative risk reduction of T2D, while in another study, frequent walking was correlated with an equally remarkable risk reduction of mortality in T2D ( 120 , 143 , 144 ). On the other hand, it must be acknowledged that data on NEAT, T2D and NAFLD/MAFLD are limited. First, evidence suggests interindividual differences in the response to a standardized exercise schedule at a given dose and there is, moreover, strong indication of genetic components to the variation in human trainability (reviwed in ( 145 )). Second, available evidence almost exclusively comes from observational and cross-sectional studies. Furthermore, the data on lifestyle interventions on sequalae of insulin resistance and manifest T2D also have limitations ( 146 ). For instance the 10-year prospective randomized LookAHEAD study in T2D patients was stopped early based on a futility analysis, since the trial was unable to detect substantial effects on cardiovascular events, although the intervention group experienced significant weight loss ( 147 ). Otherwise, secondary analyses of this hallmark study were able to show that the magnitude of weight loss may be predictive of outcome measures ( 148 ). In more detail, obese and overweight subjects suffering from T2D were examined regarding the association of the magnitude
