Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


of weight loss may be predictive of outcome measures ( 148 ). In more detail, obese and overweight subjects suffering from T2D were examined regarding the association of the magnitude of fitness change (n=4406 and weight loss (n=4834) over a median of 10 years of follow-up for the primary outcome. The primary outcome was a composite of death, cardiovascular disease, myocardial infarction, hospitalization for angina, and stroke. Subjects losing more than 10% of body mass in the first year of the intervention had a 21% lower risk of the primary outcome relative to participants with stable body mass or weight gain. Interestingly, achieving a > 2 metabolic equivalents (MET) fitness change was not significantly associated with the primary, but with the secondary endpoint (composite of coronary–artery bypass grafting, carotid endartectomy, percutaneous coronary intervention, hospitalization for congestive heart failure, peripheral vascular disease, or total mortality ( 148 ). Therefore, it appears that life style modifications are principally capable of beneficially modulating clinical endpoints in, while the optimal exercise (and lifestyle intervention) therapy for individuals with T2D, particularly with co-existing complications, remains unknown ( 120 ). These findings suggest that priority should be made for subjects who are obese to engage in any type of regular physical activity before T2D and NAFLD/MAFLD become manifest (( 144 ), reviewed in ( 120 , 8 )). Accordingly, the “Step It Up! (The Surgeon General’s Call to Action to Promote Walking and Walkable Communities)” program was recently released, focusing on promoting optimal health before disease occurs ( 149 ). In summary, since EAT is negligible in the vast majority of subjects and NEAT represents the main contributor to daily PEE/AEE and therefore TEE in Western populations NEAT can be recognized as a major potential target for lifestyle modification in subjects suffering from T2D and probably also under conditions of NAFLD/MAFLD. Personalized Approaches versus Environmental Re-engineering for Promoting NEAT In free-living individuals, counterbalancing effects of an obesity-promoting environment involves addressing several central questions: How can the amount of NEAT be increased or preserved under conditions of caloric restriction? What are realistic goals for daily spontaneous physical activity and what are appropriate activities for increasing NEAT? When aiming to prevent or treat obesity, it can be argued that in an obesogenic environment each person needs to increase physical activity levels ( 45 ). Alternatively, it could be argued that the epidemic of obesity needs to be addressed
