Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


that in an obesogenic environment each person needs to increase physical activity levels ( 45 ). Alternatively, it could be argued that the epidemic of obesity needs to be addressed at the population level, since obesity has emerged as a result of environmental pressures that have led to decreased population-wide activity levels (e.g., more sedentary jobs, more time at work and less in leisure) ( 45 ). In reality, these contributors are not mutually exclusive. However, in order to substantially increase NEAT it is useful to categorize these perspectives as the “individualized approach” versus the “environmental re-engineering approach” ( 45 ). Accordingly, Levine and Kotz have developed the “egocentric” and the “geocentric” models, which provide a theoretical framework to understand important environmental determinants of NEAT from these two perspectives ( 20 ). The egocentric model focuses on a single person. Accordingly, environmental factors that impact a particular person’s spontaneous physical activity levels are considered, such as “my occupation”, “my transportation to work”, or “my leisure time activities” ( Figure 8 ) ( 20 ). By contrast, the geocentric model is focused on how the environment impacts NEAT of multiple subjects, such as city planning to ensure walk-friendly or bike-accessible environments ( Figure 8 ) ( 20 ). These models may help to elucidate how NEAT can be effectively modulated. Figure 8. Environmental determinants of NEAT – the egocentric versus the geocentric model (adapted from ( 20 )). In the geocentric model a variety of environmental factors impact spontaneous physical activity. The most prominent negative influences on NEAT are represented by urbanization and mechanization, which are largely a phenomenon of high- and middle-income countries. Examples include televisions, drive-through restaurants, clothes washing machines, motorized walkways, and others ( 20 ). Accordingly, when comparing daily energetic costs of mechanized tasks with the same tasks performed manually a century ago, the difference in daily energy costs approximates 111 kcal, or more than 40,000 kcal per year ( 150 ). Evidence such as this has been used in support of the proposal that urbanization and mechanization have likely had a dramatic impact on energy balance ( 20 ). Hence, proposals to increase NEAT on a population level have included environmental “re-engineering,” including provisions for adequate walkways, to build schools within walking distance, and to adapt employment laws for promoting office fitness. The problem with this argument is that it includes imposing high economic costs on
