Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


walkways, to build schools within walking distance, and to adapt employment laws for promoting office fitness. The problem with this argument is that it includes imposing high economic costs on business and localities without agreed upon standards for success ( 45 ). It is self-evident that to intentionally increase NEAT over a protracted time period presupposes a significant amount of self-discipline. To facilitate behavior modification Levine has published approaches for promoting NEAT that focus on behavioral economic theory (for extensive review see ( 45 )). Behavioral economic theory is a framework for conceptualizing how people make behavioral choices based upon their perceived relative value. When applied to NEAT, behavioral economic theory is concerned with how people choose between various activity/inactivity options. Consequently, Levine proposes four key elements ( 45 ): 1) It is critical to provide individuals with free-choice. By contrast, forcing a subject to choose a specific NEAT-promoting activity is likely to have the opposite to the intended effect. Otherwise, if an activity is self-selected, it is likely to be more reinforcing and consequently self-selected more often; 2) The delay between performing a NEAT-promoting behavior and the outcome needs to be minimized. While sedentary behaviors that people enjoy have immediately reinforcing consequences, health benefits of standing or ambulation may take longer to manifest. Therefore, it is important to choose NEAT-promoting physical activities; that are pleasing. For example, walking while listening to music or walk-and-talk with a friend. 3) Behavioral “costs” determine which sorts of activity/inactivity become selected. If a person has to work strenuously to participate in a given activity, they will be less likely to do it. For example, it is unlikely that many people will drive 40 minutes to the gym long-term just to engage in fitness training. People are more likely to choose physical activities that are easily accessible, such as home- or even office-based activities that do not require changing location or clothes; and 4) For an individual to choose a NEAT-promoting activity, it has to be more attractive than available alternatives. For example, behavior will change when providing a competing behavior that is more valued: a given person may prefer to surf the internet while seated rather than visiting the gym for a fitness workout. If, however, walk-and-talk with a friend was an option, the individual could choose that instead of internet-surfing. These behavioral components have been synthesized into a simplified approach termed, STRIPE
