Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


workout. If, however, walk-and-talk with a friend was an option, the individual could choose that instead of internet-surfing. These behavioral components have been synthesized into a simplified approach termed, STRIPE ( 45 ): STRIPE is an acronym that represents S = Select a NEAT-activity that is enjoyed and start it; T = targeted, specific individual goals must be defined; R = rewards need to be identified for reaching the defined goals; I = identify barriers and remove them; P = plan NEAT-activity sessions; E = evaluate adherence and efficacy. Overall, to increase NEAT in the prevention and treatment of obesity, egocentric and geocentric approaches should be considered. Occupation and leisure time are the two principal time frames that have to be targeted for promoting individual NEAT. To increase NEAT by means of changing behavior, the STRIPE approach is considered as safe and well-grounded in conceptual evidence. Unfortunately, there is no evidence as to whether an individualized or the population-based approach is more effective in terms of increasing physical activity levels and/or to affect body mass. Despite this, however, it is our opinion that both approaches should be still considered when counseling patients regarding ways they can improve their daily life conditions ( 45 ). Increasing NEAT: Realistic Goals, Pitfalls and Appropriate Activities Obesity is not a problem in only one component of energy balance and food restriction alone is surely not the complete answer on a long-term perspective. Hill et al. hypothesized that a person who is physically highly active could maintain energy balance and a healthy body weight by eating and expending at, say, an estimated 3000 kcal per day. This person, if adopting a sedentary lifestyle, could alternatively maintain energy balance and consequently body weight by eating and expending 2000 kcal per day. If, however, this sedentary person fails to strictly keep energy intake at 2000 kcal per day to match reduced energy expenditure over time, experiencing weight gain would be the unavoidable consequence ( 16 ). In other words, for a majority of subjects in a given population, maintaining energy balance at substantial higher levels by increasing NEAT could be in the long term much more realistic under free-living conditions (e.g. in an environment with high access to energy dense foods), than maintaining caloric intake at lower levels ( 16 ). Therefore, when attempting to increase NEAT, it is important to establish what goals have to be
