Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


to energy dense foods), than maintaining caloric intake at lower levels ( 16 ). Therefore, when attempting to increase NEAT, it is important to establish what goals have to be addressed for prevention or treatment of obesity. According to a review, the amount of physical activity necessary for weight loss approximates 2000-2500 kcal per week or about 2 ½ hours of additional daily ambulation, which is considered realistic for a majority of subjects with obesity ( 45 ). This is in line with current recommendations, suggesting ≥ 150 minutes per week of aerobic exercise in combination with a hypocaloric diet ( 8 ). However, evidence is lacking from randomized, controlled studies as to whether strategies to promote NEAT in absence of dietary manipulation are effective for obesity prevention or treatment. Moreover, some lines of evidence suggest a compensatory upregulation of energy intake with rising physical activity energy expenditure, especially at higher workloads and energy expenditure levels (reviewed in ( 90 , 112 , 151 , 80 ). Therefore, it remains unclear whether substantially increasing NEAT for body mass control under free-living conditions will be capable of inducing weight loss without caloric restriction. Probably this shows large inter-individual variability, since it was recently shown that subjects losing weight over a two year time span increased their daily activity by about 35 minutes, while subjects gaining weight showed a reciprocal decrease ( 113 ). Energy intake was comparable in both of these groups. Contrasting with that, subjects either losing body weight or weight maintainers did not show alterations in daily activity as compared to weight gainers in another study ( 152 ). Thus, even under real life conditions there might be “responders” and “non-responders” in terms of daily activity/NEAT and body weight control. These groups remain, however, to be better defined. Recent work could help to better categorize “responders” and “non-responders” by applying the above mentioned constrained energy expenditure model ( 153 ). The authors hypothesized that total energy expenditure would increase with physical activity at low levels, while plateauing at higher activity levels. It was found that after adjusting for body size and composition, TEE is indeed positively associated with PEE/AEE, but the relationship was markedly stronger over the lower range of physical activity. For subjects in the upper range TEE plateaued ( Figure 9 ). According to the author’s hypothesis, body fat and activity intensity appeared to modulate the metabolic
