Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


of physical activity. For subjects in the upper range TEE plateaued ( Figure 9 ). According to the author’s hypothesis, body fat and activity intensity appeared to modulate the metabolic response to physical activity ( 153 ). In other words, subjects who maintain high levels of physical activity in their daily lives could show a smaller response to attempts of further increasing NEAT as it contributes to TEE increment, while subjects with habitually low activity levels could increase NEAT contribution and can therefore possibly be categorized as “responders”. Figure 9. Effects of physical activity on PEE/AEE and its components (adapted from ( 153 )). Since hypocaloric diets can significantly reduce NEAT (see previous sections), a major goal has to include prevention of this reduction in NEAT. There is strong evidence that physical activity is essential for the prevention of weight regain after weight loss, and for weight maintenance ( 16 , 80 ). For instance, it was shown that low physical activity levels are related to significant weight regain at follow up after hypocaloric diets ( 154 ). Furthermore, when subjects gaining weight under free-living conditions are compared to weight stable counterparts, the “weight gainers” demonstrated markedly lower physical activity related energy expenditure and less muscle strength ( 155 ). Of note, after a one year period, lower physical activity energy expenditure explained approximately 77% of body mass increase in the “weight gainers” as compared to “weight maintainers” ( 155 ). A recent meta-analysis on weight loss maintenance shows that physical activity has a significant treatment effect of approximately 1.6 kg in the short term ( 156 ). However, long term this effect was lost, probably due to reduced compliance since effects of voluntary physical exercise were examined ( 156 ). As discussed above, for prevention of a decrease in NEAT resulting from hypocaloric dieting, an effective strategy could therefore be to recommend moderate voluntary exercising during weight reduction, and then to engage in NEAT-enhancing activities at the initiation of weight maintenance. This strategy could mitigate poor long-term compliance and substantially contribute to lower body mass preservation. However, when purposeful training is initiated in combination with a hypocaloric diet, the exercise schedule must be moderate as too intense of an exercise regimen during caloric restriction can disproportionally reduce NEAT rather than stabilize it ( 157 , 85 ). Otherwise, even purposeful exercise training cannot completely overcome hypocaloric diet-induced reductions of
