Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


exercise regimen during caloric restriction can disproportionally reduce NEAT rather than stabilize it ( 157 , 85 ). Otherwise, even purposeful exercise training cannot completely overcome hypocaloric diet-induced reductions of TEE, as the REE-component remains largely unaffected by this kind of intervention even when LBM is preserved ( 85 , 72 , 36 , 80 ). From a practical point of view this is a central issue, as after weight loss reduced TEE will persist over years. This was recently shown by a follow up study on participants of the “The Biggest Loser” televised weight loss competition in the U.S.( 158 ). Fourteen subjects who were severely obese lost approximately 59 kg during a 30 week period of strenous physical exercise in combination with dieting. Fat mass was primarily lost, while LBM was largely preserved ( 158 ). Compared to baseline, by the end of the 30-week competition TEE decreased significantly by 800 kcal per day, which was mainly explained by the decline in RMR, approximating 600 kcal per day ( 158 ). Unfortunately, NEAT was not directly measured. However, keeping in mind that subjects underwent an intense physical exercise schedule it can be hypothesized that the observed difference of TEE and RMR (e.g. 200 kcal per day) was contributed to by a decline in spontaneous physical activity, which is comparable to earlier studies ( 157 , 39 , 72 ). After six years, the participants had regained 41 kg, TEE was reduced by roughly 400 kcal day-, and in spite of the significant weight regain, RMR remained reduced by 600 kcal per day ( 158 ). Therefore, after six years, “The Biggest Loser” televised weight loss competition resulted in a total weight loss of approximately 12 kg in subjects who were previously severely obese. The data indicate that these individuals will have to live with remarkably reduced dietary energy needs, even after adjustment for body weight and age ( 158 ) that contributes to their ongoing weight regain. Remarkably, the fact that after six years the reductions in RMR were lower than TEE indicates that some form of compensation is occuring, but it is unclear which component of daily energy needs is accounting for it ( Figure 1 ). From the previously reported findings it can surmised that decreased NEAT was one of the factors contributing to the large weight regain ( 158 , 39 ). Indeed, it was
