Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


From the previously reported findings it can surmised that decreased NEAT was one of the factors contributing to the large weight regain ( 158 , 39 ). Indeed, it was shown that participants of the “The Biggest Loser” television show with high levels of physical activity over years had significantly lower body mass regain compared to subjects with low physical activity levels. Weight loss maintainers had physical activity thermogenesis of roughly 12 kcal/kg/d as compared to weight regainers with approximately 8 kcal/kg/d, which was reflectetd by a significant negative correlation of body mass regain and physical activity levels ( 114 ). Overall, moderate voluntary exercise results in significantly preserved weight loss during hypocaloric dieting ( 159 , 160 ), which can be a helpful tool for preventing significant decreases in NEAT that will later help to stabilize body weight loss. With initiation of weight maintenance, subjects should be encouraged to engange in actvities increasing NEAT, to compensate at least in part for the obligatory weight loss-induced reduction in RMR. As stated previously, additional voluntary exercise is a useful tool for weight maintenance, but engagement in NEAT-related activities can be more easiliy integrated in daily life and will therefore likely result in higher adherence and compliance rates. In terms of appropriate activities, it can be relatively easy to increase NEAT ( Figure 10 ). Standing instead of sitting burns three times more kcal per hour, gum chewing increases energy expenditure four times, and stair climbing more than 40 times above resting levels ( 45 ). Ambulation (e.g., walking) in particular can raise NEAT and is easily performed at almost any place and at any time. But how can a goal of 2.5 hours of additional daily ambulation/standing time be realistically be integrated into daily routine? A key problem is that people’s occupations and personal lives regularly contribute to prohibit this degree of adaptation ( 45 ). As one’s occupation is the principal determinant of NEAT in adulthood and can represent an efficient means of promoting physical activity ( 45 ), how NEAT can be primarily integrated at the site of occupation needs examining. One important issue in this context addresses transportation to work. Similar to the NHANES data for the United States ( 42 , 43 , 41 ), recent results from the English and Welsh 2011 Census show that among the 23.7 million adult commuters, approximately 67% used private motorized
