Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: activity, neat, energy, physical, pubmed, physical activity, weight, body, obesity, expenditure, energy expenditure, subjects, free, pmc free, pmc


States ( 42 , 43 , 41 ), recent results from the English and Welsh 2011 Census show that among the 23.7 million adult commuters, approximately 67% used private motorized transport as their usual main commute mode, while about 18% used public transport ( 161 ). In contrast, only 10.9% walked and 3.1% cycled ( 161 ). Thus, the majority of subjects rely on motorized transport. Promoting cycling or walking as a daily routine, not only with regard to transportation to work but also with respect to other daily needs (such as going to the grocery store), could represent a promising and realistic way for a majority of subjects to increase individual NEAT levels. Figure 10. Effects of physical activity on PEE/AEE and its components (adapted from ( 153 )). Together, 2.5 hours of additional ambulation and standing time per day are proposed as goals for those considering weight loss. However, potential beneficial effects on weight loss could be at least partially compensated for by increasing energy intake from food. Increasing NEAT as an adjunct for weight maintenance could overcome potential compensatory effects to the low-calorie state and hypothetically represent an alternative strategy for body mass control. Limitations to Increasing NEAT A number of factors potentially affect time spent in NEAT, of which some (sociological and environmental factors) can be influenced, while others cannot (genetic and endocrine factors) ( Figure 11 ). Two points are important to make. First, as was shown previously in this chapter, skeletal muscle can increase in fuel economy and work efficiency not only in response to the loss of body mass, but also so that benefits of NEAT may be diminished. Moreover, it has also been reported that under weight-loss conditions, subjects with obesity oxidize proportionally more carbohydrates and less fat as compared to lean counterparts, and that differences in skeletal muscle metabolism and SNS activity underlie some of the observed differences between subjects who are and are not obese (reviewed in ( 21 )). And second, even though regular physical activity can increase the capacity of skeletal muscle to oxidize lipids and to store glycogen ( 85 ), regular physical activity can also increase work efficiency and thereby possibly reduce the energetic costs of NEAT ( 85 ). Even so, given the known contribution of physical activity to body weight maintenance, the recommendation to patients who are overweight and with obesity to increase NEAT-related
