An elderly woman presented with one day of chest and right arm pain, as well as abdominal pain. There was associated tingling and numbness in the right hand and generalized weakness, worse on the right side.
KEYWORDS: ecg, lead, artifact, iii, myocardial, lead iii, infarction, myocardial infarction, elevation, ventricular, depression, repeat, leads, avl, occlusion


Initial ECG There is widespread artifact, except in lead III. Since lead III is not artifactual, the artifact is caused by movement of the right arm electrode, and the ECG should be re-recorded. Despite artifact, there is ST depression in lead III. ST depression in lead III should raise concern for reciprocal ST elevation in aVL, suggestive of high lateral occlusion myocardial infarction. Leads aVL, I, and V2 must be scrutinized, but they are distorted by artifact. This finding is extremely easy to overlook unless there is high suspicion for occlusion myocardial infarction. Initial Clinical Course The provider recognized artifact but did not identify concerning findings and did not order a repeat ECG. Laboratory studies, including troponins, were ordered, and the patient was placed in the waiting room pending bed availability. The first troponin returned at 45,000 ng/L, indicating a large myocardial infarction that was subacute. Prior ECG A previous ECG showed baseline ST elevation in inferior leads, including lead III. At that time, there was no myocardial infarction, and this represented baseline ST elevation. This prior ECG confirms that the ST depression in lead III on the current ECG is abnormal. Repeat ECG The patient was brought to the critical care area and another ECG was recorded. There is sinus rhythm with premature ventricular complexes. There is inferior ST depression with ST elevation and a coved ST segment in aVL. There is ST elevation in leads V5–V6. There are new Q waves in leads aVL, V5–V6. This ECG is diagnostic of occlusion myocardial infarction, but it is subacute. Interpretation and Timing The ECG shows STEMI-equivalent findings. This represents subacute myocardial infarction, as evidenced by: Very high initial troponin of 45,000 ng/L One full day of chest pain Q waves with T-wave inversion Imaging Computed tomography of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis with aortic angiography was performed due to concern for abdominal pathology and prior aortic disease. A frame of the CT scan including the heart demonstrates the infarct. Angiography Coronary angiography revealed 100% occlusion of the ramus intermedius. The ramus intermedius is an occasional artery between the circumflex and the LAD and often takes the place of a large first diagonal, with the same myocardial distribution. The vessel was opened and stented. Biomarkers Serial troponins were markedly elevated. Echocardiography Left ventricular size was normal with hyperdynamic systolic function and an estimated ejection fraction of 77%. There was a regional
