INFECTIONANDIMMUNITY,Nov.1996,p.4751–4760 Vol.64,No.11
KEYWORDS: cid, eaec, cid cid, strains, infect, tissue, specimens, fig, culture, mucus, control, cells, coli, immun, organ


of the enterocytes (Fig. 2b) and mitochon- FIG. 1. Scanningelectronmicrographsof8-hinvitroorgancultureofpedi- atric jejunum showing the normal appearance of an uninoculated control (a; bar(cid:53)100(cid:109)m),theappearanceofjejunalmucosainoculatedwithEAECstrain 221(b;bar(cid:53)10(cid:109)m),andaggregativeadherenceofEAECstrain221(c;bar(cid:53) 1(cid:109)m). 4754 HICKS ET AL. INFECT.IMMUN. FIG. 2. TEM.(a)EAECstrain17-2associatedwithmucusandcelldebrisabovethejejunalmucosalsurface(bar(cid:53)1(cid:109)m);(b)denselysosomalbodiesinjejunal mucosaincubatedwithEAECstrainWJ19/10(bar(cid:53)20nm);(c)EAECstrain221adheringtothemicrovilliofanilealspecimen(bar(cid:53)200nm). drial swelling, were seen, and these changes were more pro- hesion. Tissue incubated with the negative control strains nouncedinheavilycolonizedspecimens. showedbacteriaadheringtomucusatthevillustipsbutwithan Adhesion to ileum. (i) SEM. Tall finger-like villi were evi- otherwisenormalappearance. dent on all uninoculated ileal control specimens, and in con- Both of the prototype EAEC and all five wild-type EAEC trasttojejunum,smallnumbersofscatteredindividualbacteria strains,aswellastheEPECstrain,showedsignificantadhesion werefoundadheringtothemucosalsurfacedespitethorough to ileal mucosa (P (cid:44) 0.001) (Fig. 3). No significant adhesion washing after incubation. However, there were no obvious wasseenwiththenegativecontrolstrainsSC13andHB101. associated pathological changes. More mucus was present on (ii) TEM. Ileal tissue incubated with control strains SC13 ilealsamplesthanonjejunalcontrols;thevisiblemucosalsur- and HB101 showed more evidence of extruding cells than faceshowedanintactglycocalyx. uninoculated controls, and a layer of mucus was present over Bacterial counts were taken from nine uninoculated ileal someareas.Noorganelleorbrushborderabnormalitieswere controlspecimenstoobtainindigenouslevelsofadheringbac- seen. teria over a total of 90 fields of view. The median number of Positive control EPEC KH1/8 showed a typical attaching/ bacteriaperfieldwas0;therangewas0to5. effacinglesion. Specimens with significant numbers of adherent bacteria The TEM appearance of ileal specimens with adherent showedexcessroundingupandextrusionofcells,withalayer EAEC was similar to that of jejunal tissue. A layer of mucus of mucus over the tips of many villi. EPEC strain KH1/8 was and cell debris with adherent bacterial groups was evident associatedwithaneffectonileumsimilartothatonjejunum; above an intact brush border. EAEC strains 3862 and 221 i.e., microvillous elongation was associated with bacterial ad- appeared to be the only strains adhering to the microvillus VOL.64,1996 EAEC AND PEDIATRIC IN VITRO ORGAN CULTURE 4755 FIG. 3. Boxandwhiskerplotshowinglevelsofbacterialadhesiontosmall-andlarge-intestinalmucosa.J,jejunum;I,ileum;C,colon;CON,uninoculatedcontrol. membrane(Fig.2c),althoughnoobviousbrushborderlesion structurewasnormal,andcryptluminawerefreefromdebris wasnotedonanyspecimen. ormucus. Adhesiontocolon.(i)SEM.Therewasgoodpreservationof Therewasgoodcorrelationbetweenabnormalitiesseenon glycocalyx and crypt openings were small in all uninoculated SEM and the TEM appearance of experimental specimens. colonic control specimens (i.e., incubated in the absence of Roundedcellscreatedanunevenepithelialsurface,anddeep bacteria) (Fig. 4a). Mucus discharge from goblet cells and crevices were readily distinguishable from crypts on TEM. someindividualrod-likebacteriawereseenoneachspecimen. Truecryptshadlargeopeningsattheluminalsurfaceandoften Colonocytesdistantfromthecryptopeningsshowedevidence contained extruded cell fragments and mucus. There was a of rounding up but with no obvious extrusion. Counts of ad- distinctlackofgobletcells,buttherewasnoevidenceofathick hering bacteria were taken from eight uninoculated control mucuslayerabovethemucosa.WiththreeEAECstrains(17-2, specimens, i.e., 80 fields of view, with a median number of LC9/6,andWJ19/10),bacterialattachmentwascloselyassoci- bacteriaperfieldof0andarangeof0to1. ated with vesiculated microvilli (Fig. 5b) but without any evi- Tissue incubated with negative controls SC13 and HB101 dence of an attaching/effacing lesion such as that seen with appeared similar to the tissue described above
