INFECTIONANDIMMUNITY,Nov.1996,p.4751–4760 Vol.64,No.11
KEYWORDS: cid, eaec, cid cid, strains, infect, tissue, specimens, fig, culture, mucus, control, cells, coli, immun, organ


a cytotoxin which could lead to mucosal allsevenadheredtoileum,andfiveadheredtocolon.Greater damage and possibly explain the bloody diarrhea observed in numbers of bacteria adhered to colonic mucosa, suggesting someEAEC-infectedchildren(5).Thesecytotoxiceffectshave thatfactorspromoteadhesionofsomestrainstothismucosal also been demonstrated with a well-characterized EAEC region although these strains possess the ability to adhere to strain, O42 (O44:H18), which is known to cause diarrhea in small bowel. However, one strain (3862) readily adhered to adultvolunteersandwillbereportedelsewhere(28). smallintestinealone. Thecytotoxicchangesnotedinvitrooccurredwithin8hof Therewasevidenceofexcesscellularextrusioninallsmall- EAECinoculation,whichmaynotbethecaseinvivo.Inthis and large-bowel specimens with adherent EAEC. Enlarged organculturemodel,themucosalspecimensweredirectlyex- crypt openings, intercrypt crevices, and microvillous vesicula- posedtoahighdoseofbacteria(approximately107/ml)with- tionwerefeaturesparticulartoEAEC-infectedcolonicspeci- outthedilutioneffectsofintestinalorgastricsecretionswhich mens.Intercryptcreviceformationmaybetheresultofexcess mayplayaroleinvivo. extrusion of the more mature colonocytes distant from the Invivo,bacteriamustpenetratethemucusbarrieroverlying cryptregions.Theexcesscellextrusionissuggestiveofacyto- toxic effect and was more pronounced in those tissues which the mucosa in order to reach the unstirred layer (a region of hadbeenincubatedwithEAST1DNA-positiveEAECstrains. approximately 50-(cid:109)m width above the mucosal surface ) EAST1 is an enterotoxin without reported cytotoxic activity, and the epithelium itself. The organ culture system permits and therefore it would be surprising if it brought about the direct access to the mucosa without the presence of a thick observed changes. However, two other toxins have been de- mucus barrier, which suggests that the excess mucus produc- scribed for EAEC, a hemolysin (1) and a 108-kDa cytotoxin tionnotedwithEAEC-inoculatedspecimensmaybeamucosal (12),bothofwhichhavecytotoxicactivity.TheEAECstrains response to infection. It is unlikely to be an artifact of organ described here may harbor genes encoding one or more of culture, as the negative and positive control incubations were thesetoxins,althoughthiswasnottested.Expressionofthese not associated with mucus release. EAEC strains have been genescouldaccountforthecytologicaldamageobserved.Co- directlyassociatedwithmucusreleaseinthegnotobioticpiglet expression of an enterotoxin and a cytotoxin have been de- model,inwhichbacterialaggregateswerefoundwithina“gel- scribed previously for Salmonella species (10) and Campy- like” matrix above an intact mucosal surface (35). Indirect lobacter jejuni (17). C. jejuni colonizes the small intestine evidence for EAEC producing mucus release in humans has 4758 HICKS ET AL. INFECT.IMMUN. FIG. 5. (a)AggregativeadherenceofEAECstrainWJ19/10tocolonicmucosainvitro(bar(cid:53)5(cid:109)m);(b)transmissionelectronmicrographofadherenceofEAEC strain17-2inassociationwithvesiculationofcolonicmicrovilli(bar(cid:53)200nm). been found in volunteer studies in which challenge with O42 TEM, most bacteria were associated with mucus above the producedmucoidstools(30). mucosaandfewwerefoundincloseassociationwiththemu- On SEM, EAEC were observed adhering to both the mu- cosalsurface.Thisapparentdiscrepancymaybeexplainedby cosalsurfaceandmucusexudedfromgobletcells.However,on the aggregative nature of adherence seen on SEM. EAEC VOL.64,1996 EAEC AND PEDIATRIC IN VITRO ORGAN CULTURE 4759 adhered in large groups which obscured the view of the un- REFERENCES derlyingepithelialsurface.ItispossiblethatsomeEAECcells 1. Baldwin,T.J.,S.Knutton,L.Sellers,H.A.M.Hernandez,A.Aitken,and adheredtoahiddenmucuslayerandothersadhereddirectlyto P.H.Williams.1992.EnteroaggregativeEscherichiacolistrainssecretea heat-labiletoxinantigenicallyrelatedtoE.colihemolysin.Infect.Immun. themucosa. 60:2092–2095. UnlikethecaseforEPEC,noattachmentandeffacementof 2. Batt,R.M.,H.Embaye,S.vandeWaal,D.Burgess,G.B.Edwards,and the enterocyte brush border was associated with EAEC in C. A. Hart. 1995. Application of organ culture of small intestine to the organculture.Onlytwostrainswerefoundincloseassociation investigationofenterocytedamagebyequinerotavirus.J.Pediatr.Gastro- enterol.Nutr.20:326–332. with microvilli of the
