Bookshelf_NBK1198
KEYWORDS: related, individuals, deletion, pms-, pms- related, chromosome, genetic, pathogenic, affected, phelan-mcdermid, deletions, ring, risk, proband, testing


NLM Citation: Phelan K, Rogers RC, Boccuto L. Phelan-McDermid Syndrome-SHANK3 Related. 2005 May 11 [Updated 2024 Jun 6]. In: ® Adam MP, Bick S, Mirzaa GM, et al., editors. GeneReviews [Internet]. Bookshelf URL: Phelan-McDermid Syndrome-SHANK3 Related Synonym: 22q13.3 Deletion Syndrome 1 2 MD Created: May 11, 2005; Updated: June 6, 2024. Summary Clinical characteristics Phelan-McDermid syndrome-SHANK3 related (PMS-SHANK3 related) is characterized by neonatal hypotonia, absent to severely delayed speech, developmental delay, and minor dysmorphic facial features. Most affected individuals have moderate-to-profound intellectual disability. Other features include relatively large flesh y hands, dysplastic toenails, and decreased perspiration that results in a tendency to overheat. Normal stature and normal head size distinguish PMS-SHANK3 related from other autosomal chromosome disorders. Neurobehavioral characteristics include mouthing or chewing non-food items, decreased perception of pain, and autism spectrum disorder or autistic-like affect and behavior. Some individuals experience regression / loss of skills, epilepsy, ataxic/abnormal gait, and sleep disturbance (difficulty falling asleep and staying asleep, hypersomnia, and parasomnias). Less commonly, affected individuals may have strabismus, vision problems (hyperopia or myopia), cardiac anomalies, renal anomalies, and lymphedema. Those who have PMS-SHANK3 related due to a ring chromosome 22 also have a high risk of developing features of NF2-related schwannomatosis (NF2). Diagnosis/testing The diagnosis of PMS-SHANK3 related is established in a proband with suggestive findings and either (1) a <50- kb to >9-Mb heterozygous deletion at chromosome 22q13.3 with involvement of at least part of SHANK3; (2) a heterozygous pathogenic variant in SHANK3; OR (3) a chromosomal rearrangement with breakpoints disrupting SHANK3 identified by molecular genetic testing. Management Treatment of manifestations: Standard treatment for developmental delay / intellectual disability, epilepsy, hearing loss, recurrent ear infections, refractive error, strabismus, gastroesophageal reflux disease, autoimmune . 2 GeneReviews ® hepatitis / liver failure, renal anomalies, vesicoureteral reflux, hypothyroidism, pubertal abnormalities, bruxism, malocclusion, and cardiac issues. Those who experience poor feeding may benefit from feeding therapy or, if the feeding issues are persistent, placement of a gastrostomy tube. Immunomodulation therapy (such as intravenous immunoglobulins) may be considered in those with autoimmune encephalitis. Sleep hygiene, healthy habits, light therapy, and potential medical management may be considered to treat sleep disturbance. More complex vision issues, such as optic nerve hypoplasia or cortical visual impairment, may require input from an ophthalmic subspecialist. Use of pressure stockings and elevation of the foot of the bed may be helpful for those who have lymphedema; depending on the stage
