Bookshelf_NBK1198
KEYWORDS: related, individuals, deletion, pms-, pms- related, chromosome, genetic, pathogenic, affected, phelan-mcdermid, deletions, ring, risk, proband, testing


require input from an ophthalmic subspecialist. Use of pressure stockings and elevation of the foot of the bed may be helpful for those who have lymphedema; depending on the stage of the symptom, compression therapy, weight reduction, and stimulation mobility may also be indicated. In those who have a ring chromosome 22, see the GeneReview on NF2-related schwannomatosis for further information about treatment of manifestations. Surveillance: At each visit, measurement of growth parameters; evaluation of nutritional status and safety of oral intake; monitor for signs/symptoms of GERD; monitor for new manifestations, such as seizures, changes in tone, and developmental regression; monitor developmental progress and educational needs; evaluate for neurobehavioral issues, such as anxiety, ADHD, autism, aggression, and self-injury; monitor for signs/symptoms of sleep apnea and sleep disturbance. Annually, perform audiology evaluation and ophthalmology evaluation. At each visit in childhood and adolescence, monitor for signs and progression of puberty. At regular intervals, perform dental evaluation for evidence of tooth decay, malocclusion, and crowding. In those with poor growth or as clinically indicated, assess thyroid function. In those with a ring chromosome 22, perform annual neurologic examination by a provider with experience with NF2; brain MRI annually beginning at age 10-12 years until fourth decade of life; annual audiology evaluation, including BAER, to assess for the earliest symptoms of vestibular schwannomas; annual ophthalmology evaluation. Agents/circumstances to avoid: Exposure to high temperatures and extended periods in the sun due to reduced perspiration and tendency to overheat easily; exposure to excessive heat or cold, sharp objects, or clothes/shoes that may be too tight and cause skin lesions due to decreased perception of pain; radiotherapy for NF2- associated tumors in those with a ring chromosome 22. Genetic counseling PMS-SHANK3 related is an autosomal dominant disorder most often caused by a de novo genetic alteration. Recurrence risk in family members depends on the genetic mechanism underlying PMS-SHANK3 in the proband and the genetic status of the parents of the proband. 22q13.3 deletion: Most probands have a de novo deletion; some probands have the deletion as the result of an unbalanced structural rearrangement that includes 22q13 (about half of these individuals have a parent who is a carrier of a balanced translocation) or a ring chromosome 22 (karyotype screening of the proband for a ring chromosome 22 must be done if a terminal 22q13.3 deletion is detected by CMA). Rarely, a proband inherited the genetic alteration from
