Bookshelf_NBK1198
KEYWORDS: related, individuals, deletion, pms-, pms- related, chromosome, genetic, pathogenic, affected, phelan-mcdermid, deletions, ring, risk, proband, testing


(karyotype screening of the proband for a ring chromosome 22 must be done if a terminal 22q13.3 deletion is detected by CMA). Rarely, a proband inherited the genetic alteration from a heterozygous or mosaic parent. If a parent has (1) a non-mosaic 22q13.3 deletion, the risk to each sib of inheriting the deletion is 50%; (2) a mosaic 22q13.3 deletion, the risk to each sib is increased but impossible to quantify because the level of mosaicism in gonadal tissue is unknown; (3) a chromosomal rearrangement, the risk to sibs is increased and depends on the specific chromosomal rearrangement and the possibility of other variables. Intragenic SHANK3 pathogenic variant: Most probands have a de novo pathogenic variant; rarely, a proband inherited the pathogenic variant from a heterozygous or mosaic parent. If a parent of the proband is affected and/or known to have an intragenic SHANK3 pathogenic variant, the risk to the sibs is 50%. Once a 22q13.3 deletion involving SHANK3 or a SHANK3 intragenic pathogenic variant has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. Prenatal test results cannot reliably predict the phenotype. Phelan-McDermid Syndrome-SHANK3 Related 3 Diagnosis No clinical diagnostic criteria have been established for Phelan-McDermid syndrome-SHANK3 related (PMS- SHANK3 related). The diagnosis is based on laboratory testing to establish a deletion of 22q13 that includes part or all of SHANK3 or a pathogenic variant in SHANK3 (see also Differential Diagnosis for information about PMS-SHANK3 unrelated [Phelan et al 2022]). Suggestive Findings PMS-SHANK3 related should be considered in probands with the following clinical findings: Clinical findings • Moderate-to-profound developmental delay (DD) or intellectual disability (ID) with absent to severely delayed speech AND • Any of the following features presenting in infancy or childhood: dysplastic toenails ⚬ Generalized hypotonia ⚬ Decreased perspiration and/or tendency to overheat ⚬ Normal stature and head circumference for age and sex ⚬ Neurobehavioral/psychiatric manifestations including mouthing or chewing non-food items, decreased perception of pain, and autism spectrum disorder or autistic-like features ⚬ Regression / loss of skills ⚬ Epilepsy ⚬ Sleep disturbances, including difficulty falling asleep and staying asleep, hypersomnia, and parasomnias Family history. Because PMS-SHANK3 related is typically caused by a de novo pathogenic variant, most probands represent a simplex case (i.e., a single occurrence in a family). Rarely, the family history may be consistent with autosomal dominant inheritance (e.g., affected males and females in multiple generations). Establishing the
