Bookshelf_NBK1198
KEYWORDS: related, individuals, deletion, pms-, pms- related, chromosome, genetic, pathogenic, affected, phelan-mcdermid, deletions, ring, risk, proband, testing


simplex case (i.e., a single occurrence in a family). Rarely, the family history may be consistent with autosomal dominant inheritance (e.g., affected males and females in multiple generations). Establishing the Diagnosis The diagnosis of PMS-SHANK3 related is established in a proband with suggestive findings and one of the following identified on molecular genetic testing (see Table 1): • A <50-kb to >9-Mb heterozygous deletion at chromosome 22q13.3 with involvement of at least part of SHANK3 • A heterozygous pathogenic (or likely pathogenic) variant in SHANK3 • A chromosomal rearrangement with breakpoints disrupting SHANK3 Note: (1) Per ACMG/AMP variant interpretation guidelines, the terms "pathogenic variant" and "likely be used for clinical decision making [Richards et al 2015]. Reference to "pathogenic variants" in this GeneReview is understood to include likely pathogenic variants. (2) Identification of a heterozygous SHANK3 variant of uncertain significance does not establish or rule out the diagnosis. 4 GeneReviews ® Molecular genetic testing approaches can include a combination of gene-targeted testing (chromosomal microarray, single gene testing, multigene panel) and comprehensive genomic testing (exome sequencing, genome sequencing). Option 1 Chromosomal microarray analysis (CMA) is often the first genetic test, as most cases of PMS-SHANK3 related are caused by large pathogenic copy number variants (CNVs), which cannot be detected by sequence analysis of SHANK3. Note: It is imperative that the identification of terminal deletions by CMA be followed by karyotype screening for ring chromosome detection. Single-gene testing. Gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis of SHANK3 is performed first and followed by sequence analysis of SHANK3 if no deletion is found. An intellectual disability multigene panel that includes SHANK3 and other genes of interest (see Differenti al Diagnosis) may be considered. (1) The genes included in the panel and the diagnostic sensitivity of the testing used for each gene vary by laboratory and are likely to change over time. (2) Some multigene panels may include genes not associated with the condition discussed in this GeneReview. (3) In some laboratories, panel options may include a custom laboratory-designed panel and/or custom phenotype-focused exome analysis that includes genes specified by the clinician. (4) Methods used in a panel may include sequence analysis, deletion/ duplication analysis, and/or other non-sequencing-based tests. For this disorder a multigene panel that also includes deletion/duplication analysis is recommended (see Table 1). tests can be found here. Option 2 Comprehensive genomic testing does not require the clinician to determine which gene is likely involved. Exome
