Bookshelf_NBK1198
KEYWORDS: related, individuals, deletion, pms-, pms- related, chromosome, genetic, pathogenic, affected, phelan-mcdermid, deletions, ring, risk, proband, testing


remains impaired throughout life, individuals can learn to communicate with the aid of intensive speech therapy and communication training. Phelan-McDermid Syndrome-SHANK3 Related 7 • In a study of 21 individuals with PMS-SHANK3 related with deletions varying between 41 kb and 8.3 Mb, 45% were nonverbal [Brignell et al 2021]. • Nevado et al reported absence of speech for 80%-100% of individuals with terminal 22q13 deletions spanning 5-6 Mb or more. • Receptive communication skills are more advanced than expressive language skills, as evidenced by the ability of affected children to follow simple commands, demonstrate humor, and express emotions. Overall development • Developmental assessment using the Developmental Profile II (DPII) and the Scales of Independent Behavior-Revised – Full Scale (SIB-R) demonstrated that while all participants had moderate-to-profound intellectual disability, compared to most children with this level of impairment, those with PMS-SHANK3 related had less frequent and less severe problematic behaviors [Wilson et al 2003]. • Developmental delay with a maximum developmental age equivalent of three to 4.5 years and more pronounced delays in older individuals than in younger children as measured by the Bayley-II-NL scale of infant development (a trend referred to as "growing into deficit") was reported by one group [Zwanenburg et al 2016]. • Toilet training is difficult to achieve and requires extreme vigilance by parents and caregivers. Children may stay dry at night but become wet or soiled during the day because they are unable to communicate their needs. Regression / loss of skills. The regression in PMS-SHANK3 related is distinct from the regression seen in autism spectrum disorder and Rett syndrome in that it occurs later in life and has a stronger impact on motor and self- help skills [Reierson et al 2017]. Loss of speech is most frequently reported, but loss of social interactions, purposeful hand movements, self-help skills, and walking have also been described. In a study of 42 individuals aged four to 48 years using the Autism Diagnostic Interview, Revised (ADI-R), parents reported regression in 43% of affected individuals with onset around age six years. About 40% of individuals recovered skills; time to recovery ranged from one month to 10 years [Reierson et al 2017]. More specifically, parents reported regression and loss of: • Language in 33% at a mean age of three years; • Motor skills in 50% at a mean age of four years; • Self-help skills in 50% at a mean
