Bookshelf_NBK1198
KEYWORDS: related, individuals, deletion, pms-, pms- related, chromosome, genetic, pathogenic, affected, phelan-mcdermid, deletions, ring, risk, proband, testing


Language in 33% at a mean age of three years; • Motor skills in 50% at a mean age of four years; • Self-help skills in 50% at a mean age of four years; • Social engagement/responsiveness in 33% at a mean age of five years; • Purposeful hand movement in 28% at a mean age of seven years; • Constructive/imaginative play in 22% at a mean age of seven years. No apparent cause for the regression has been found in a majority of individuals, although infection, changes in hormone status, and stressful life events may be possible triggers [Kohlenberg et al 2020] (see Decreased perception of pain below). Comorbidities or secondary diagnoses may also contribute to regression in affecte d individuals. • Autoimmune dysfunction has been proposed as a trigger for regression, with Bey et al reporting a positive response to immune modulation therapy utilizing intravenous immunoglobulin infusions in four females suspected to have autoimmune encephalitis. • Additionally, an affected female in her mid-twenties presented with regression and dystonic spastic hemiparesis; she was subsequently diagnosed with concomitant multiple sclerosis that responded to steroid treatment [Jesse et al 2021]. Neurobehavioral/psychiatric manifestations. Individuals with PMS-SHANK3 related are at increased risk of developing severe neuropsychiatric illnesses in adolescence or early adulthood, although many of the reports describing psychiatric manifestations are based on parental observation; therefore, direct in-person assessment 8 GeneReviews ® to determine a more accurate understanding of behavior in PMS has been recommended [Kohlenberg et al 2020, Landlust et al 2022]. Between one half and three quarters of affected individuals meet clinical diagnostic criteria for autism spectrum disorder. Others may exhibit one or more autistic features but do not meet the strict diagnostic criteria for autism spectrum disorder. Specific findings may include poor eye contact, stereotypic movements, persistent deficits in social communication (see Speech delay above), self-stimulation, and restricted, repetitive patterns of behavior, interests, or activities [Soorya et al 2013, Oberman et al 2015]. Other abnormal behaviors may include: • Habitual chewing or mouthing • Tooth grinding • Agitation in unfamiliar, noisy, or crowded surroundings • Aggressive behavior, including biting, hair pulling, or pinching, which is seen in approximately 25% of affected individuals ⚬ The behavior is typically displayed when individuals are frustrated and may indicate that they are in pain but cannot express themselves appropriately. ⚬ The behavior is not self-injurious but is often directed at the parent or caregiver.
