Bookshelf_NBK1198
KEYWORDS: related, individuals, deletion, pms-, pms- related, chromosome, genetic, pathogenic, affected, phelan-mcdermid, deletions, ring, risk, proband, testing


are frustrated and may indicate that they are in pain but cannot express themselves appropriately. ⚬ The behavior is not self-injurious but is often directed at the parent or caregiver. • Catatonia, which may present after neurologic regression, psychosis, and loss of skills [Kolevzon et al 2019]. Catatonia occurs more frequently in females than in males. • Schizophrenia and/or bipolar disorder [Levy et al 2022] ⚬ Bipolar disorder is reported more commonly in individuals with small deletions and SHANK3 sequence variants (16%) than in individuals with larger deletions (3%). ⚬ Prevalence of schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder has been estimated at around 5%. Decreased perception of pain. As a result of decreased perception of pain and lack of expressive communication skills, affected individuals may suffer cuts, scrapes, or even broken bones without indicating that they are in pain. They may suffer ear infections, gastroesophageal reflux, increased intracranial pressure, or other painful medical conditions without indicating discomfort. Caregivers should have a high index of suspicion for a possibly painful organic process when affected individuals display new-onset behavioral issues or aggressive behaviors. Hypotonia. Newborns with PMS-SHANK3 related have generalized hypotonia that may be associated with weak cry, poor head control, and feeding difficulties leading to slow growth [Frank 2021]. Neonatal hypotonia in individuals with PMS-SHANK3 related may evolve differently with age. In some individuals hypotonia persists throughout adulthood, in others it resolves, and in others it may be replaced by dystonia or, more rarely, hypertonia. Epilepsy. The lifetime prevalence of seizures is >60% with a wide range in age of onset [de Coo et al 2023]. Other require treatment. Both EEG findings and seizure type are highly variable, including grand mal, focal, and Neuroimaging. MRI studies reveal a variety of abnormalities, including delayed myelination, agenesis of the corpus callosum, ventriculomegaly, white matter atrophy and other white matter abnormalities, generous extracerebral space, large cisterna magna, and arachnoid cyst [Soorya et al 2013, Tabet et al 2017, Xu et al 2020]. • Volumetric MRI in 11 affected children demonstrated decreased volumes of the striatum and left pallidum and reduced volume of the cerebellar vermis, which was associated with increased repetitive behavior severity [Srivastava et al 2019]. • Volumetric investigations have also shown global atrophy of the white matter correlated with structural connectivity losses suggestive of accelerated central nervous system aging [Jesse et al 2023]. Phelan-McDermid Syndrome-SHANK3 Related 9 • In individuals with a ring chromosome
