Bookshelf_NBK1198
KEYWORDS: related, individuals, deletion, pms-, pms- related, chromosome, genetic, pathogenic, affected, phelan-mcdermid, deletions, ring, risk, proband, testing


Most adults are also within the normal range for weight, although inactivity and overeating (possibly a manifestation of compulsive mouthing) result in increased weight gain in approximately 10% of affected individuals. Endocrinologic • Hypothyroidism occurs in 3%-6% of affected individuals [Soorya et al 2013, Sarasua et al 2014a]. Symptoms include lethargy, loss of interest, weight gain, and decline in skills and typically manifest in teens or young adults (see Management). • Precocious puberty has been reported in 13% of affected individuals, occurring more frequently in females than in males [Sarasua et al 2014a, Samogy-Costa et al 2019]. Neuropsychiatric symptoms may worsen during puberty, especially in females [Kolevzon et al 2019]. Dental. Malocclusion is the most frequently encountered dental problem. Poor muscle tone, incessant chewing, tooth grinding, and tongue thrusting may contribute to malocclusion. Malocclusion may be accompanied by drooling and difficulty swallowing and may contribute to difficulties in verbalization. Lymphedema and recurrent cellulitis have been observed in approximately 10% of individuals, typically becoming problematic during the teen and adult years. • The majority of cases are found in individuals with 22q13 deletions, occurring in only about 1% of individuals with intragenic SHANK3 pathogenetic variants [Srivastava et al 2023]. • Progressive lymphedema leading to pleural effusions has been reported in a female with PMS-SHANK3 related resulting from a ring chromosome r(22)(p11.2q12.3) [McGaughran et al 2010]. • CELSR1 has been proposed as the major candidate gene for lymphedema [Smith et al 2023]. Dysmorphic features / craniofacial. Among the most common and striking craniofacial features are long eyelashes, pointed chin, broad nose, wide nasal bridge, bulbous nose, malocclusion, and periorbital fullness. Other physical findings include large, fleshy hands and abnormal ears. • The characteristics may change over time, particularly if the individual is on anticonvulsants that tend to coarsen the features. • Adults have a more prominent, square jaw and less bulbous-appearing nose. Phelan-McDermid Syndrome-SHANK3 Related 11 • Other less common features include dolichocephaly, strabismus, and abnormal toenails that may be dysplastic, thin, and flaky in the neonate and toddler but may harden and become ingrown as the individual ages. • Fingernails are usually normal but occasionally may be thin and dysplastic. Cardiac. Various congenital heart defects have been reported, including aortic regurgitation, patent ductus arteriosus, total anomalous venous return, atrial septal defect, and tricuspid valve regurgitation; estimates of the incidence of congenital heart defects range from 3% to 25% [Phelan & McDermid
