Bookshelf_NBK1198
KEYWORDS: related, individuals, deletion, pms-, pms- related, chromosome, genetic, pathogenic, affected, phelan-mcdermid, deletions, ring, risk, proband, testing


patent ductus arteriosus, total anomalous venous return, atrial septal defect, and tricuspid valve regurgitation; estimates of the incidence of congenital heart defects range from 3% to 25% [Phelan & McDermid 2012, Soorya et al 2013, Kolevzon et al 2014a, Schön et al 2023]. Malignancy. An atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor (ATRT) has been reported in at least four affected individuals, three of whom had a ring chromosome 22, whereas the other had a 7.2-Mb deletion of 22q13 [Korones et al 1999, Sathyamoorthi et al 2009, Cho et al 2014, Byers et al 2017]. At present, there are no consensus cancer screening recommendations for ATRT in PMS-SHANK3 related (see also Ring chromosome 22 below). Adulthood. Longitudinal data are insufficient to determine life expectancy. However, life-threatening or life- limiting cardiac, pulmonary, or other organ system defects are not common. The paucity of older adults with PMS-SHANK3 related reflects the difficulty in establishing the diagnosis prior to the advent of high-resolution chromosome analysis, FISH, and CMA. In older individuals, behavioral problems tend to subside, developmental abilities improve, and some features such as large or fleshy hands, full or puffy eyelids, hypotonia, lax ligaments, and hyperextensible joints are reported as less frequent [Sarasua et al 2014a]. Late-onset seizures, unexplained weight loss, and loss of motor skills may occur in older individuals, adversely affecting quality of life and life expectancy. In general, individuals with intellectual impairment tend to have a short life span compared to the general population due to lack of Ring chromosome 22. Individuals with PMS-SHANK3 related as a result of a ring chromosome 22 have a specific risk of developing NF2-related schwannomatosis (NF2). Ziats et al reported a 16% prevalence of NF2 among 44 individuals with PMS-SHANK3 related and a ring chromosome 22. NF2 (pathogenic variants in which cause NF2) is at 22q12.2 adjacent to the PMS-SHANK3 related deletion region. The risk for NF2 is due to the instability of ring chromosomes during mitosis and follows a two-hit model. The first hit is the loss of the ring chromosome 22 during mitosis, making a cell hemizygous for chromosome 22. The second hit is a somatic mutation of the remaining NF2 allele [Zirn et al 2012]. Children with a ring chromosome 22 should be monitored for NF2 in the same manner as if they had an affecte d parent. This includes baseline and annual ocular, dermal, and neurologic examinations between ages two and ten years
