Bookshelf_NBK1198
KEYWORDS: related, individuals, deletion, pms-, pms- related, chromosome, genetic, pathogenic, affected, phelan-mcdermid, deletions, ring, risk, proband, testing


for NF2 in the same manner as if they had an affecte d parent. This includes baseline and annual ocular, dermal, and neurologic examinations between ages two and ten years with annual audiology screening and brain MRI every two years after age ten years [Lyons-Warren et al 2017]. Mosaic 22q13.3 deletion. Mosaic 22q13.3 deletion has been reported on occasion. The level of mosaicism for 22q13.3 deletion varies among affected individuals. Note: Because most testing is performed on blood samples, because the level of mosaicism in blood can change over time, and because the level of mosaicism in the blood is not representative of the level of mosaicism in the brain and other tissues, the level of mosaicism that is sufficien t for expression of the major features of PMS-SHANK3 related is unknown. Mosaicism is particularly common in 22q13 deletion associated with ring chromosomes because of the instability of the ring structure during cell division. Low-level mosaicism for monosomy 22 or dicentric ring chromosome 22 should be interpreted with caution, as either abnormality might represent an in vitro artifact. Despite this, one adult with characteristic features of PMS-SHANK3 related showed ring chromosome 22 in only 8% of blood cells [K Phelan, unpublished data]. 12 GeneReviews ® Genotype-Phenotype Correlations Pathogenic variants of SHANK3 without involvement of other adjacent genes • Common features of individuals who have pathogenic variants involving solely SHANK3 include hypotonia, intellectual disability, autism spectrum disorder, epilepsy, high pain tolerance, sleep disturbances, abnormal brain MRI, gastroesophageal reflux, and certain dysmorphic features [Soorya et al 2013, De Rubeis et al 2018, Samogy-Costa et al 2019, Xu et al 2020, Levy et al 2022, Nevado et al 2022]. • When compared to individuals with larger deletions involving adjacent genes, those with solely SHANK3 pathogenic variants or small 22q13.33 deletions (including only SHANK3 plus ARSA and/or ACR and RABL2B) often have fewer delayed developmental milestones and higher cognitive ability [Levy et al 2022] and lack a distinctive facial appearance [Nevado et al 2022]. Larger deletions of 22q13.3 that include SHANK3 and adjacent genes • In general, there is a statistically significant correlation between larger deletion sizes and a more significan t degree of developmental delay and hypotonia [Wilson et al 2003]. • Larger deletions are also associated with an increased likelihood of dysmorphic features and medical comorbidities. Individuals with larger deletions are more likely to have renal/urinary tract anomalies and lymphedema compared to
