Bookshelf_NBK1198
KEYWORDS: related, individuals, deletion, pms-, pms- related, chromosome, genetic, pathogenic, affected, phelan-mcdermid, deletions, ring, risk, proband, testing


deletions are also associated with an increased likelihood of dysmorphic features and medical comorbidities. Individuals with larger deletions are more likely to have renal/urinary tract anomalies and lymphedema compared to those with smaller deletions or pathogenic variants involving SHANK3 alone [Srivastava et al 2023]. • Sarasua et al [2014a] and Sarasua et al [2014b] confirmed the trend correlating larger deletions with more specific loci and candidate genes within the 22q13.2-q13.32 region associated with certain features of PMS-SHANK3 related: severity of speech/language delay, neonatal hypotonia, delayed age at walking, hair-pulling behaviors, male genital anomalies, dysplastic toenails, large/fleshy hands, macrocephaly, short and tall stature, facial asymmetry, and atypical reflexes. • Although there is a tendency for larger deletions to be correlated with more severe intellectual and physical phenotypes than smaller deletions, the correlation is not 100%; individuals with the same size deletion may vary significantly in their presentation [Dhar et al 2010]. Penetrance Although it was previously thought that features of PMS-SHANK3 related were apparent in all individuals with non-mosaic 22q13.3 deletions that include SHANK3, evidence suggests that small deletions involving SHANK3 may be associated with reduced penetrance and variable expressivity [Tabet et al 2017]. Pathogenic variants in SHANK3 have been associated with apparently non-syndromic autism and schizophrenia. In addition, classic manifestations have been seen in individuals with as low as 8% mosaicism for the 22q13.3 deletion in peripheral blood [K Phelan, unpublished data]. Nomenclature Previously referred to as 22q13.3 deletion syndrome to reflect the chromosomal basis of this deletion, the condition was subsequently referred to as Phelan-McDermid syndrome (PMS). Although the majority of individuals with PMS have a genetic alternation that involves SHANK3, disruption of SHANK3 is not identified in all affected individuals. To reflect this, a dyadic classification system was proposed in which the designation "PMS-SHANK3 related" refers to individuals with PMS and a genetic alteration involving SHANK3 and the designation "PMS-SHANK3 unrelated" refers to individuals with PMS who do not have a genetic alteration involving SHANK3 [Phelan et al 2022]. Phelan-McDermid Syndrome-SHANK3 Related 13 Prevalence The prevalence of PMS-SHANK3 related is unknown. More than 1,500 individuals are registered with the Phelan-McDermid Syndrome Foundation (Venice, Florida, 2017), although some registered individuals may have PMS-SHANK3 unrelated (see Nomenclature). This does not represent the total number of affected individuals, as not all families worldwide register with the foundation. Genetically Related (Allelic) Disorders Intellectual disability and/or neurobehavioral/psychiatric manifestations that may be observed in
