Bookshelf_NBK1198
KEYWORDS: related, individuals, deletion, pms-, pms- related, chromosome, genetic, pathogenic, affected, phelan-mcdermid, deletions, ring, risk, proband, testing


many causes of cerebral palsy include birth trauma, prematurity, low birth weight, infections, intrapartum asphyxia, jaundice, intracranial hemorrhage, and placental abruption. Cerebral palsy can also be caused after birth by asphyxia related to choking, near drowning, poisoning, or other events that reduce the oxygen supply to the brain. Physical injury, including shaken baby syndrome, can also lead to cerebral palsy. Genetic testing that reveals deletion of 22q13.3 is often the manner in which individuals erroneously diagnosed with cerebral palsy receive the correct diagnosis. Spastic paraplegia. Because children with PMS-SHANK3 related have delayed motor milestones and may walk with an unsteady, "spastic" gait, they may be misdiagnosed as having spastic paraplegia. However, individuals with hereditary spastic paraplegia are distinguished by progressive weakness and spasticity of the lower extremities. Individuals with complex spastic paraplegia may also display neurologic dysfunction, including seizures, dementia, and amyotrophy. Spastic paraplegia encompasses a number of neurologic disorders with autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, X-linked, or maternal (mitochondrial) inheritance. Individuals with PMS-SHANK3 related do not demonstrate progressive neurologic symptoms characteristic of hereditary spastic paraplegia, yet they may carry this diagnosis until genetic testing that identifies PMS-SHANK3 related is performed. Management Various updated consensus clinical management guidelines for Phelan-McDermid syndrome-SHANK3 related lymphedema, epilepsy management, or organization of care – have been published [Burdeus-Olavarrieta et al 2023, Damstra et al 2023, de Coo et al 2023, Koza et al 2023, Matuleviciene et al 2023, San José Cáceres et al 2023, Srivastava et al 2023, van Balkom et al 2023, van Eeghen et al 2023, Walinga et al 2023]. Evaluations Following Initial Diagnosis To establish the extent of disease and needs in an individual diagnosed with PMS-SHANK3 related, the evaluations summarized in Table 4 (if not performed as part of the evaluation that led to diagnosis) are recommended. Table 4. Phelan-McDermid Syndrome-SHANK3 Related: Recommended Evaluations Following Initial Diagnosis System/Concern Evaluation Comment Measurement of weight, length/height, & Constitutional To assess for growth abnormalities head circumference 16 GeneReviews ® Table 4. continued from previous page. System/Concern Evaluation Comment • To incl brain MRI in those w/microcephaly, seizures, developmental regression, focal neurologic findings on Neurologic eval exam, or symptoms of ↑ intracranial pressure • Consider EEG if seizures are a concern. Neurologic In those w/abrupt developmental regression or new Evaluate for autoimmune encephalitis neuropsychiatric symptoms that fail to respond to appropriate through serum or CSF autoantibodies. trials of psychotropic medications or that are accompanied by
