Bookshelf_NBK1198
KEYWORDS: related, individuals, deletion, pms-, pms- related, chromosome, genetic, pathogenic, affected, phelan-mcdermid, deletions, ring, risk, proband, testing


easily. Considering that individuals with PMS-SHANK3 related may present with decreased perception of pain, close surveillance is recommended to prevent exposure to dangers including sources of excessive heat or cold, sharp objects, or clothes/shoes that may be too tight and cause skin lesions. In affected individuals with a ring chromosome 22, radiotherapy for NF2-associated tumors should be avoided in children when malignancy risks are likely to be substantially higher [Evans et al 2006]. Evaluation of Relatives at Risk See Genetic Counseling for issues related to testing of at-risk relatives for genetic counseling purposes. Therapies Under Investigation Lithium. Lithium has been used to treat behavioral issues in three affected individuals. Serret et al reported two adolescents with PMS-SHANK3 related and autism spectrum disorder (ASD) resulting from pathogenic variants in SHANK3. The individuals presented with catatonia, regression, and behavioral issues a fter stressful events. Lithium reversed the regression and improved the behavioral issues, and the individuals returned to their pre-catatonia level of functioning. Egger et al described an adult with a SHANK3 pathogenic variant who had an atypical bipolar mood disorder that was stabilized by lithium treatment. Insulin-like growth factor-1 / growth hormone • Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) was investigated in a placebo-controlled, double-blind crossover study involving nine children with PMS-SHANK3 related [Kolevzon et al 2014b]. Results indicated a significan t improvement in social impairment and restrictive behavior during the IGF-1 phase compared to the 22 GeneReviews ® improves sensory reactivity symptoms, repetitive behaviors, and hyperactivity in children with PMS- SHANK3 related [Kolevzon et al 2022]. Nonetheless, the trial was conducted on a very small cohort (ten children with PMS- SHANK3 related, aged 5-9 years), and larger studies are required to confirm the validity of IGF-1 therapy. • Several studies have investigated the effects of growth hormone (GH), which induces the expression of IGF-1, activates similar target pathways, and is significantly less expensive. Preliminary results revealed (NCT04003207) but need to be validated on larger cohorts [Xie et al 2021, Li et al 2022, Sethuram et al 2022,]. Search ClinicalTrials.gov in the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for information on clinical studies for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Genetic Counseling Genetic counseling is the process of providing individuals and families with information on the nature, mode(s) of inheritance, and implications of genetic disorders to help them make informed medical and personal decisions. Th e following section deals
