Bookshelf_NBK1198
KEYWORDS: related, individuals, deletion, pms-, pms- related, chromosome, genetic, pathogenic, affected, phelan-mcdermid, deletions, ring, risk, proband, testing


individuals and families with information on the nature, mode(s) of inheritance, and implications of genetic disorders to help them make informed medical and personal decisions. Th e following section deals with genetic risk assessment and the use of family history and genetic testing to clarify genetic status for family members; it is not meant to address all personal, cultural, or ethical issues that may arise or to substitute for consultation with a genetics professional. —ED. Mode of Inheritance Phelan-McDermid syndrome-SHANK3 related (PMS-SHANK3 related) is an autosomal dominant disorder most often caused by a de novo genetic alteration (i.e., a deletion at chromosome 22q13.3 involving at least part of SHANK3, a pathogenic variant in SHANK3, or, rarely, a chromosomal rearrangement with breakpoints disrupting SHANK3). Recurrence risk in family members depends on the genetic mechanism underlying PMS-SHANK3 related in the proband and the genetic status of the parents of the proband. 22q13.3 Deletion – Risk to Family Members Parents of a proband • Most probands with PMS-SHANK3 related caused by a terminal or interstitial deletion of 22q13.3 have a de novo deletion. • Some probands with a 22q13 deletion have the deletion as the result of: ⚬ An unbalanced structural rearrangement that includes 22q13 (e.g., a reciprocal translocation, insertional translocation, or inversion). About half of these individuals have a parent who is a carrier of a balanced translocation [Koza et al 2023]. ⚬ Ring chromosome 22. Note: Karyotype screening of the proband for a ring chromosome 22 must be done if a terminal 22q13.3 deletion is detected by chromosomal microarray analysis (CMA). Individuals with PMS- SHANK3 related as a result of a ring chromosome 22 have a specific risk of developing NF2-related • Rarely, a proband with a 22q13.3 deletion inherited a genetic alteration from a heterozygous or mosaic parent. Phelan-McDermid Syndrome-SHANK3 Related 23 ⚬ Mild expression of PMS-SHANK3 related was described in the heterozygous mother of a child with a maternally inherited deletion [Wilson et al 2008]. ⚬ Maternal mosaicism has been described in several families: ▪ Recurrence in two affected brothers of a 3.5-Mb deletion of maternal origin (testing of parental peripheral blood did not detect a balanced chromosomal rearrangement or low-level mosaicism, leading to the suspicion of maternal germline mosaicism) [Tabolacci et al 2005]. ▪ An asymptomatic mosaic mother with a 22q13 deletion resulting from a structural chromosomal anomaly transmitted the deletion to two affected children (the derivative chromosome
