Bookshelf_NBK1198
KEYWORDS: related, individuals, deletion, pms-, pms- related, chromosome, genetic, pathogenic, affected, phelan-mcdermid, deletions, ring, risk, proband, testing


mosaicism) [Tabolacci et al 2005]. ▪ An asymptomatic mosaic mother with a 22q13 deletion resulting from a structural chromosomal anomaly transmitted the deletion to two affected children (the derivative chromosome 22 was observed in 6% of maternal peripheral blood cells) [K Phelan, unpublished data]. ▪ An asymptomatic mother with mosaicism for a ring chromosome 22 (in fewer than 2% of peripheral blood cells) transmitted the ring chromosome 22 to her affected child [K Phelan, unpublished data]. • Evaluation of the parents by genomic testing that will detect the 22q13.3 deletion identified in the proband is recommended. In addition, karyotype of the parents is recommended to determine if a parent has a predisposing chromosomal anomaly. • If the 22q13 deletion identified in the proband is not identified in either parent, a chromosome anomaly is not detected in either parent, and parental identity testing has confirmed biological maternity and paternity, the following possibilities should be considered: ⚬ The proband has a de novo deletion. ⚬ The proband inherited a deletion from a parent with germline (or somatic and germline) mosaicism [Koza et al 2023].* Testing of parental leukocyte DNA may not detect all instances of somatic mosaicism and will not detect a genetic alteration that is present in the germ (gonadal) cells only. * Although the probability of parental mosaicism for 22q13.3 deletion is low, it is important that Mosaic 22q13.3 deletion). • The family history of some individuals diagnosed with PMS-SHANK3 related may appear to be negative because of failure to recognize the disorder in family members or the absence of diagnostic testing in nonviable conceptuses. Therefore, an apparently negative family history cannot be confirmed without genomic testing and karyotype analysis of the parents of the proband. Sibs of a proband. The risk to sibs of a proband with a 22q13.3 deletion depends on the genetic status of the parents: • If a parent has a non-mosaic 22q13.3 deletion, the risk to each sib of inheriting the deletion is 50% [Koza et al 2023]. If a parent has a mosaic 22q13.3 deletion, the risk to each sib of inheriting the deletion is increased but impossible to quantify because the level of mosaicism in gonadal tissue is unknown. • If a parent has a balanced chromosomal rearrangement, a ring chromosome 22, or other complex chromosomal rearrangement, the risk to sibs is increased and depends on the specific chromosomal rearrangement and the possibility
