Bookshelf_NBK1198
KEYWORDS: related, individuals, deletion, pms-, pms- related, chromosome, genetic, pathogenic, affected, phelan-mcdermid, deletions, ring, risk, proband, testing


has a balanced chromosomal rearrangement, a ring chromosome 22, or other complex chromosomal rearrangement, the risk to sibs is increased and depends on the specific chromosomal rearrangement and the possibility of other variables. • It is not possible to reliably predict the phenotype in a sib who inherits a familial genetic alteration (see Genotype-Phenotype Correlations). • If the proband represents a simplex case (i.e., the only affected family member) and neither parent has a detected 22q13.3 deletion or a chromosomal rearrangement, the recurrence risk to sibs of PMS-SHANK3 related is <2% because of the possibility of parental germline mosaicism [Koza et al 2023]. 24 GeneReviews ® Offspring of a proband. Offspring of an individual with a non-mosaic 22q13.3 deletion have a 50% chance of inheriting the deletion [Terrone et al 2017]. Other family members. The risk to other family members depends on the genetic status of the proband's parents: if a parent has a balanced chromosomal rearrangement or deletion, the parent's family members may be at risk and should be offered karyotype analysis. Intragenic SHANK3 Pathogenic Variant – Risk to Family Members Parents of a proband • Most probands with PMS-SHANK3 related caused by an intragenic SHANK3 pathogenic variant have a de novo pathogenic variant. • Rarely, a proband with an intragenic SHANK3 pathogenic variant inherited the pathogenic variant from a heterozygous or mosaic parent. ⚬ Transmission of an intragenic SHANK3 deletion from a heterozygous mother without intellectual disability or autism spectrum disorder to five affected daughters was reported in one family [Tabet et al 2017]. (Of note, the absence of intellectual disability and autism spectrum disorder in the heterozygous mother suggests that small deletions involving SHANK3 may be associated with reduced penetrance and variable expressivity.) ⚬ The frequency of parental mosaicism for a SHANK3 pathogenic variant was 3.7% in one study [Koza et al 2023]. • Molecular genetic testing is recommended for the parents of the proband to assess their genetic status and inform recurrence risk counseling. • If the SHANK3 pathogenic variant identified in the proband is not identified in either parent and parental identity testing has confirmed biological maternity and paternity, the following possibilities should be considered: ⚬ The proband has a de novo pathogenic variant. ⚬ The proband inherited a pathogenic variant from a parent with germline (or somatic and germline) mosaicism. Note: Testing of parental leukocyte DNA may not detect all instances of somatic mosaicism
