Bookshelf_NBK1198
KEYWORDS: related, individuals, deletion, pms-, pms- related, chromosome, genetic, pathogenic, affected, phelan-mcdermid, deletions, ring, risk, proband, testing


The proband inherited a pathogenic variant from a parent with germline (or somatic and germline) mosaicism. Note: Testing of parental leukocyte DNA may not detect all instances of somatic mosaicism and will not detect a pathogenic variant that is present in the germ (gonadal) cells only. • The family history of some individuals diagnosed with PMS-SHANK3 related may appear to be negative because of failure to recognize the disorder in family members or reduced penetrance. Therefore, an apparently negative family history cannot be confirmed unless molecular genetic testing has demonstrated that neither parent is heterozygous for the pathogenic variant identified in the proband. Sibs of a proband. The risk to the sibs of the proband depends on the genetic status of the proband's parents: • If a parent of the proband is affected and/or known to have an intragenic SHANK3 pathogenic variant, the risk to the sibs is 50%; intrafamilial clinical variability has been reported [Tabet et al 2017]. • If the SHANK3 pathogenic variant found in the proband cannot be detected in the leukocyte DNA of either parent, the recurrence risk to sibs is estimated to be <2% because of the possibility of parental germline mosaicism [Koza et al 2023]. • If the parents have not been tested for the SHANK3 pathogenic variant but are clinically unaffected, the risk to the sibs appears to be low. However, the sibs of a proband with clinically unaffected parents are still at increased risk for inheriting the SHANK3 pathogenic variant because of the possibility of parental germline mosaicism and the possibility of reduced penetrance and/or variable expressivity in a heterozygous parent [Tabet et al 2017]. Offspring of a proband. Individuals with a SHANK3 pathogenic variant have a 50% chance of transmitting the pathogenic variant to each child. Phelan-McDermid Syndrome-SHANK3 Related 25 Related Genetic Counseling Issues Family planning • The optimal time for determination of genetic risk and discussion of the availability of prenatal/ preimplantation genetic testing is before pregnancy. • It is appropriate to offer genetic counseling (including discussion of potential risks to offspring and reproductive options) to young adults who are at risk of having a child with PMS-SHANK3 related. Note: If a parent is known to have a balanced chromosome rearrangement, genetic counseling should also address reproductive risks associated with balanced chromosome rearrangements. Prenatal Testing and Preimplantation Genetic Testing Once a 22q13.3 deletion involving SHANK3 or a SHANK3 intragenic pathogenic
