Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


IDSA GUIDELINES Infectious Diseases Society of America 2024 Guidance on the Treatment of Antimicrobial-Resistant Gram-Negative Infections Pranita D. Tamma,1, Emily L. Heil,2Julie Ann Justo,3Amy J. Mathers,4Michael J. Satlin,5and Robert A. Bonomo6 of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, USA; 5Department of Medicine, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, New York, USA; and 6Medical Service and Center for Antimicrobial Resistance and The Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) is committed to providing up-to-date guidance on the treatment of antimicrobial-resistant (AMR) infections. This guidance document focuses on infections caused by extended-spectrum β-lactamase-producing Enterobacterales (ESBL-E), AmpC β-lactamase-producing Enterobacterales (AmpC-E), carbapenem- resistant Enterobacterales (CRE), Pseudomonas aeruginosa with difficult-to-treat resistance (DTR P. aeruginosa), carbapenem- resistant Acinetobacter baumannii (CRAB), and Stenotrophomonas maltophilia. This updated document replaces previous versions of the guidance document. A panel of 6 infectious diseases specialists with expertise in managing antimicrobial- resistant infections formulated questions about the treatment of infections caused by ESBL-E, AmpC-E, CRE, DTR P. aeruginosa, CRAB, and S. maltophilia. Because of differences in the epidemiology of AMR and availability of specific anti- infectives internationally, this document focuses on the treatment of AMR infections in the United States. Preferred and alternative suggested treatment approaches are provided with accompanying rationales, assuming the causative organism has been identified and antibiotic susceptibility results are known. Approaches to empiric treatment, transitioning to oral therapy, duration of therapy, and other management considerations are discussed briefly. Suggested approaches apply for both adult and pediatric populations, although suggested antibiotic dosages are provided only for adults. The field of AMR is highly dynamic. Consultation with an infectious diseases specialist is recommended for the treatment of AMR infections. This document is current as of December 31, 2023 and will be updated periodically. The most current version of this document, including date of publication, is available at www.idsociety.org/practice-guideline/amr-guidance/. Keywords. ESBL; Pseudomonas aeruginosa; CRAB; Stenotrophomonas maltophilia. Antimicrobial-resistant (AMR) infections are a global crisis. As an alternative to practice guidelines, the Infectious Internationally, approximately 1.3 million deaths were estimat- Diseases Society of America (IDSA) has endorsed developing ed to be directly attributable to AMR pathogens in 2019 . In more narrowly focused guidance documents for the treatment the United States, AMR pathogens caused more than 2.8 mil- of infections where data may not be very robust and continue to lion infections and over 35 000 deaths annually from 2012 rapidly evolve – such as with AMR. Guidance documents are through 2017, according to the Centers for Disease
