Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


continue to lion infections and over 35 000 deaths annually from 2012 rapidly evolve – such as with AMR. Guidance documents are through 2017, according to the Centers for Disease Control prepared by a small team of experts, who answer questions and Prevention (CDC) Antibiotic Resistance Threats in the about treatment based on a comprehensive (but not necessarily expert opinion. Documents are made available online and updated annually. In the present document, guidance is provided on the treatment Received 15 July 2024; editorial decision 19 July 2024; published online 7 August 2024 of infections caused by extended-spectrum β-lactamase- Last updated 31 December 2023 and posted online at producing Enterobacterales (ESBL-E), AmpC β-lactamase- guideline/amr-guidance/. Please check website for most updated version of this guidance. producing Enterobacterales (AmpC-E), carbapenem-resistant © The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Infectious Diseases Acinetobacter baumannii (CRAB), and Stenotrophomonas malto- for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our philia. Many of these pathogens have been designated urgent or RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information serious threats by the CDC . Each pathogen causes a wide range please contact . of infections that are encountered in United States hospitals of AMR Treatment Guidance • CID • 1 Downloaded from by guest on May all sizes, and that carry with them significant morbidity and determining empiric treatment for a given patient, clinicians mortality. should also consider: (1) previous organisms identified from Guidance is presented in the form of answers to a series the patient and associated antimicrobial susceptibility testing and antimicrobial susceptibility testing (AST) methods are the most likely pathogens. Treatment decisions should be re- included, the document does not provide a comprehensive fined based on the species and the AST profile of the pathogen, review of these topics. GRADE methodology (ie, Grading as well as on the identification of any prominent β-lactamase of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and genes that have been identified. Evaluations) are not employed. Due to differences in the mo- For all organisms, but for DTR P. aeruginosa, CRAB, and S. lecular epidemiology of resistance and availability of specific maltophilia in particular, a distinction between bacterial col- antibiotics internationally, treatment suggestions are geared to- onization and infection is important because unnecessary an- ward AMR infections in the United States. This guidance docu- tibiotic therapy will only
