Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


col- antibiotics internationally, treatment suggestions are geared to- onization and infection is important because unnecessary an- ward AMR infections in the United States. This guidance docu- tibiotic therapy will only further the development of ment applies to both adult and pediatric populations. Suggested resistance and may cause unnecessary antibiotic related antibiotic dosing for adults with AMR infections, assuming harm to patients. Commonly selected empiric antibiotic reg- normal renal and hepatic function, are provided in Table 1. imens are generally not active against CRAB and S. malto- Pediatric dosing is not provided. The content of this document philia infections. The decision to target treatment for is current as of 31 December 2023. The most current version of CRAB and/or S. maltophilia in empiric antibiotic regimens this IDSA guidance document and corresponding date of pub- should involve a careful risk-benefit analysis after reviewing amr-guidance. host risk factors, and antibiotic-specific adverse event profiles. GENERAL MANAGEMENT RECOMMENDATIONS Duration of Therapy and Transitioning to Oral Therapy Suggested treatment approaches in this guidance document as- Recommendations on durations of therapy are not provided, sume that the causative organism has been identified and that but clinicians are advised that the duration of therapy should in vitro activity of antibiotics is demonstrated. If 2 antibiotics not differ for infections caused by organisms with resistant are equally effective, important considerations in selecting a phenotypes compared to infections caused by more susceptible specific agent include safety, cost, convenience, and local for- phenotypes . After AST results are available, it may become mulary availability. apparent that inactive antibiotic therapy was initiated empiri- cally. This may impact the duration of therapy. For example, Complicated Urinary Tract Infection Definition uncomplicated cystitis is typically a mild infection . If an an- In this document, the term complicated urinary tract infections tibiotic not active against the causative organism was adminis- or functional abnormality of the genitourinary tract, or any improvement nonetheless occurred, it is generally not neces- UTI in an adolescent or adult male. In general, the panel sug- sary to repeat a urine culture, change the antibiotic regimen, gests cUTI be treated with similar agents and for similar treat- or extend the planned treatment course. However, for all other ment durations as pyelonephritis. For cUTI where the source infections, if AST results indicate a potentially inactive agent has been controlled (eg, removal of a Foley catheter) and ongo- was initiated empirically, a change to
