Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


Uncomplicated cystitis: 15 mg/kg IV as a single dose Pyelonephritis or complicated urinary tract infections: 15 mg/kg IV once; subsequent doses and dosing interval based on pharmacokinetic evaluation Additional information in Supplementary Material. Polymyxin B Refer to international consensus guidelines on polymyxins (Tsuji BT, et al Pharmacotherapy. 2019;39:10–39). Sulbactam-durlobactam Sulbactam 1 gram/durlobactam 1 gram (2 grams total) IV every 6 h, infused over 3 h CrCL ≥130 mL/min: Sulbactam 1 gram/durlobactam 1 gram (2 grams total) IV every 4 h, infused over 3 h Additional information in Supplementary Material. Tigecycline 200 mg IV as a single dose, then 100 mg IV every 12 h Tobramycin Uncomplicated cystitis: 5 mg/kg and the AST profile of the pathogen, IV as a single dose Pyelonephritis or complicated urinary tract infections: 7 mg/kg IV once; subsequent doses and dosing interval based on pharmacokinetic evaluation Additional information in Supplementary Material. Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole Uncomplicated cystitis: 160 mg (trimethoprim component) IV/PO every 12 h Other infections: 10–15 mg/kg/day (trimethoprim component) IV/PO divided every 8 to 12 h Additional information in Supplementary Material. Abbreviations: CrCl, creatinine clearance; IV, intravenous; PO, enterally. aDosing suggestions limited to organisms and infectious syndromes discussed in the IDSA AMR Treatment Guidance document. bDosing suggested for several agents may differ from dosing recommended by the United States Food and Drug Administration. AMR Treatment Guidance • CID • 3 Downloaded from by guest on May IDSA DISCLAIMER Treatment suggestions for ESBL-E infections assume that in vitro activity of preferred and alternative antibiotics has been It is important to realize that guidance cannot always account demonstrated. for individual variation among patients. The contents of this guidance are assessments of current scientific and clinical in- formation provided as an educational service. They are not Question 1.1: What Are Preferred Antibiotics for the Treatment of Uncomplicated Cystitis Caused by ESBL-E? continually updated and may not reflect the most recent evi- Suggested approach: Nitrofurantoin and TMP-SMX are dence (new evidence may emerge between the time informa- preferred treatment options for uncomplicated cystitis caused tion is developed and when it is published or read). They by ESBL-E. Ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, and carbapenems are should not be considered inclusive of all available treatment ap- alternative agents for uncomplicated cystitis caused by proaches or as a statement of the standard of care. They are not ESBL-E. Although effective, their use is discouraged when intended to supplant clinician judgment with respect to partic- nitrofurantoin or
