Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


as a statement of the standard of care. They are not ESBL-E. Although effective, their use is discouraged when intended to supplant clinician judgment with respect to partic- nitrofurantoin or TMP-SMX are active. An aminoglycoside ular patients or special clinical situations. Whether and the ex- (as a single dose) and oral fosfomycin (for E. coli only) are tent to which to follow guidance is voluntary, with the ultimate also alternative treatments for uncomplicated cystitis caused determination regarding their application to be made by the by ESBL-E. treating clinician in light of each patient’s individual circum- stances. Although IDSA makes every effort to present accurate, Rationale complete, and reliable information, this guidance is presented Nitrofurantoin and TMP-SMX have been shown to be effective “as is” without any warranty, either express or implied. IDSA options for uncomplicated cystitis, including uncomplicated (and its officers, directors, members, employees, and agents) ESBL-E cystitis [5, 19–21]. Although carbapenems and the flu- assume no responsibility for any loss, damage, or claim with re- oroquinolones ciprofloxacin or levofloxacin are effective agents spect to any liabilities, including direct, special, indirect, or against ESBL-E cystitis , their use for uncomplicated consequential damages, incurred in connection with this guid- cystitis is discouraged when other effective options are avail- ance or reliance on the information presented. able. Limiting use of these agents preserves their activity for fu- ture infections when treatment options may be more restricted. SECTION 1: EXTENDED-SPECTRUM Moreover, limiting their use reduces the risk of associated tox- β-LACTAMASE-PRODUCING ENTEROBACTERALES icities, particularly with the fluoroquinolones, which have been ESBLs are enzymes that inactivate most penicillins, cephalospo- associated with an increased risk for prolonged QT intervals, rins, and aztreonam. EBSL-E generally remain susceptible to car- tendinitis and tendon rupture, aortic dissections, seizures, pe- (eg, ciprofloxacin, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole [TMP-SMX], [24–27]. gentamicin, doxycycline). However, organisms carrying ESBL Treatment with a single IV dose of an aminoglycoside is an al- genes often harbor additional genes or mutations in genes ex- ternative treatment option for uncomplicated ESBL-E cystitis. panding their resistance to a broad range of antibiotics. Aminoglycosides are nearly exclusively eliminated by the renal Any gram-negative organism has the potential to harbor ESBL route. A single IV dose is generally effective for uncomplicated Klebsiella pneumoniae, Klebsiella oxytoca, and Proteus mirabilis lacking . Oral fosfomycin is an alternative treatment option [7–9]. CTX-M enzymes, particularly CTX-M-15, are the most exclusively for uncomplicated ESBL-E cystitis caused by E. coli.
