Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


oxytoca, and Proteus mirabilis lacking . Oral fosfomycin is an alternative treatment option [7–9]. CTX-M enzymes, particularly CTX-M-15, are the most exclusively for uncomplicated ESBL-E cystitis caused by E. coli. common ESBLs in the United States . ESBLs other than Susceptibility of E. coli to fosfomycin is not routinely tested by ing variants of TEM and SHV β-lactamases with amino acid fosfomycin remains rare in the United States . Among tigation than CTX-M enzymes [10–14]. Routine EBSL testing is Institute (CLSI) breakpoints are only available for E. coli for fos- not performed by most clinical microbiology laboratories fomycin. Fosfomycin is not suggested for the treatment of infec- . Rather, non-susceptibility to ceftriaxone (ie, ceftriaxone tions caused by K. pneumoniae and several other gram-negative minimum inhibitory concentrations [MICs] ≥2 µg/mL), is often organisms, which frequently carry fosA hydrolase genes that has limitations with specificity as organisms not susceptible to indicated that a single dose of oral fosfomycin is associated with ceftriaxone for reasons other than ESBL production may be falsely higher clinical failure than a 5-day course of nitrofurantoin for presumed to be ESBL-producers . For this guidance uncomplicated cystitis . Although this trial was not limited document, ESBL-E refers to presumed or confirmed ESBL- to E. coli cystitis, in a subgroup analysis exclusively of E. coli in- producing E. coli, K. pneumoniae, K. oxytoca, or P. mirabilis. fections, outcomes remained poor in the fosfomycin group 4 • CID • Tamma et al Downloaded from by guest on May with day 14 clinical failure at 50% in the fosfomycin group vs 22% imipenem-cilastatin are preferred agents when resistance or in the nitrofurantoin group . The additive benefit of addition- toxicities preclude the use of TMP-SMX or fluoroquinolones. al doses of oral fosfomycin for uncomplicated cystitis is not Aminoglycosides are alternative options for the treatment of known but may be a reasonable option as has been suggested ESBL-E pyelonephritis or cUTI. for cUTI (Question 1.2). Amoxicillin-clavulanic is not suggested for the treatment of Rationale regimen of amoxicillin-clavulanic acid (500 mg/125 mg twice ment options for patients with ESBL-E pyelonephritis or daily) to a 3-day course of ciprofloxacin (250 mg twice daily) cUTIs, assuming in vitro susceptibility has been demonstrated, for 370 women with uncomplicated E. coli cystitis . based on the ability of these agents to achieve adequate and sus- respectively. The higher failure rates with amoxicillin- agents, when resistance or toxicities
