Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


with uncomplicated E. coli cystitis . based on the ability of these agents to achieve adequate and sus- respectively. The higher failure rates with amoxicillin- agents, when resistance or toxicities prevent the use of clavulanic acid appear to be associated with persistent vaginal TMP-SMX or fluoroquinolones, or early in the treatment bacterial colonization, which occurred in 45% and 10% of pa- course if a patient is critically ill (Question 1.3). If a carbapenem tients in the amoxicillin-clavulanic acid and ciprofloxacin is initiated and susceptibility to TMP-SMX, ciprofloxacin, or arms, respectively . The proportion of women in the trial in- levofloxacin is demonstrated, transitioning to oral formula- fected with ESBL-E strains is not available. Of note, both agents tions of these agents is preferred over completing a treatment were administered at dosages lower than generally suggested course with a carbapenem. Limiting use of carbapenem expo- (Table 1). Even though data indicate that clavulanic acid is effec- sure will preserve their activity for future AMR infections, tive against ESBLs in vitro , this may not translate to which frequently arise in patients with cUTIs . clinical efficacy . Robust data indicating that oral Aminoglycosides are alternative options for pyelonephritis amoxicillin-clavulanic acid is effective for ESBL-E uncomplicat- and cUTI. Although expected to be effective, they are considered ed cystitis are lacking. Although amoxicillin-clavulanic acid is alternative agents because of their associated nephrotoxicity risk. not a preferred agent for uncomplicated ESBL-producing cysti- Animal models suggest aminoglycosides concentrate in the renal IV antibiotics, caution should be given to patients about the po- and increases in serum creatinine levels of ≥0.5 mg above base- tential increased risk of recurrent infection if amoxicillin- line occurred in 7% vs 4% of patients in the plazomicin and mer- clavulanic acid is administered. openem groups, respectively . In general, higher percentages The panel suggests avoiding doxycycline for the treatment of of Enterobacterales clinical isolates are susceptible to plazomicin published nearly 50 years ago, demonstrated that oral tetracy- are likely equally effective for the treatment of ESBL-E pyelone- clines may be effective for the treatment of UTIs . phritis or cUTI if susceptibility is demonstrated . Of Both of these studies, however, primarily focused on P. aerugi- note, in 2023 the CLSI revised gentamicin, tobramycin, and ami- nosa, an organism not susceptible to oral tetracyclines, ques- kacin breakpoints for the Enterobacterales (Table 2). tioning the impact that antibiotic therapy had on
