Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


CLSI revised gentamicin, tobramycin, and ami- nosa, an organism not susceptible to oral tetracyclines, ques- kacin breakpoints for the Enterobacterales (Table 2). tioning the impact that antibiotic therapy had on clinical Aminoglycosides may be reasonable to consider for completing cure. Doxycycline is primarily eliminated through the intestinal treatment courses (eg, transitioning from another agent for ter- tract with limited urinary excretion (35%–60%) . Until minal doses) given their prolonged duration of activity in the re- of oral doxycycline for the treatment of ESBL-E cystitis are (Table 1, Supplementary Material). Duration-dependent risks available, the panel suggests against the use of doxycycline for of nephrotoxicity should be considered with all aminoglycosides this indication. The roles of piperacillin-tazobactam, cefepime, . and the cephamycins for the treatment of uncomplicated cysti- Fosfomycin is not suggested for the treatment of pyelone- tis are discussed in Question 1.4, Question 1.5, and Question phritis or cUTI given its limited renal parenchymal concentra- 1.6, respectively. tions. More data are needed to evaluate the role of oral fosfomycin for patients with pyelonephritis or cUTI, particular- ly when administered as a multidose regimen and after several Question 1.2: What Are Preferred Antibiotics for the Treatment of Pyelonephritis or cUTI Caused by ESBL-E? days of preferred therapy. In a clinical trial of 97 women with Suggested approach: TMP-SMX, ciprofloxacin, or levofloxa- E. coli pyelonephritis (approximately half of patients had asso- cin are preferred treatment options for pyelonephritis or ciated bacteremia) who received up to 5 days of IV therapy, par- cUTIs caused by ESBL-E. Ertapenem, meropenem, and ticipants were subsequently transitioned to either once-daily 3 g AMR Treatment Guidance • CID • 5 Downloaded from by guest on May rofloxacin for 10 days of total antibiotic therapy . Similar TMP-SMX, ciprofloxacin, or levofloxacin should be consid- vs 65%, respectively). However, only approximately 6% of iso- lates were ESBL-producing, limiting generalizability to pyelone- Rationale phritis caused by drug-resistant phenotypes . Moreover, as 7 A carbapenem is recommended as first-line treatment of days is generally sufficient for the treatment of pyelonephritis, ESBL-E infections outside of the urinary tract, based primarily patients with cUTI to 3 g of fosfomycin daily or 750 mg of levo- agents; ertapenem offers a more convenient option for patients floxacin daily for 5–7 days, after up to 2 days of IV therapy . needing to continue carbapenem therapy in the outpatient set- Clinical cure at the end of therapy was
