Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


daily for 5–7 days, after up to 2 days of IV therapy . needing to continue carbapenem therapy in the outpatient set- Clinical cure at the end of therapy was similar in both treatment ting when oral treatment options are not available. groups (69% vs 68%). In this study, 63% of infections were For patients who are critically ill and/or experiencing hypo- caused by E. coli but only 1 isolate in each arm was caused by albuminemia, meropenem or imipenem-cilastatin are the pre- an ESBL-producing isolate. ferred carbapenems. Ertapenem, in contrast to meropenem and IV fosfomycin is not clinically available in the United States. imipenem, is highly protein bound leading to a relatively pro- Although some data suggest IV fosfomycin may have activity longed serum half-life . In patients with hypoalbuminemia, against organisms beyond E. coli, it is difficult to translate the free fraction of ertapenem increases, leading to increased data from IV fosfomycin to oral fosfomycin given the limited ertapenem clearance and a significant decrease in the serum oral bioavailability and lower daily dosages with oral fosfomy- half-life of this agent, which may not be optimal with daily cin . Transitioning to daily oral fosfomycin needs further dosing of this agent [62–64]. An observational study of 279 pa- investigation before suggesting for or against this practice for tients with Enterobacterales infections found that hypoalbumi- the treatment of ESBL-E pyelonephritis or cUTI; however, it nemia (defined as serum albumin <2.5 g/dL) was associated may be a reasonable option when other preferred or alternative with an approximately 5-times higher odds of 30-day mortality oral options are not available. for patients receiving ertapenem compared to those receiving Fosfomycin is an alternative option for the treatment of meropenem or imipenem-cilastatin . Clinical literature re- prostatitis caused by ESBL-producing E. coli when preferred garding the use of ertapenem, relative to other carbapenems, in options (ie, carbapenems, TMP-SMX, or fluoroquinolones) critically ill patients is limited and conflicting . servational study, fosfomycin, dosed at 3 g orally daily for 1 patients with critical illness and limitations in the pharmacoki- week, followed by 3 g orally every 48 hours for 6–12 weeks, netic and pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) profile of ertapenem [67, chronic bacterial prostatitis . Fosfomycin is not suggested cilastatin, rather than ertapenem, as initial therapy in critically for prostatitis caused by gram-negative organisms other than ill patients with ESBL-E infections. Higher doses of ertapenem E. coli due
