Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


suggested cilastatin, rather than ertapenem, as initial therapy in critically for prostatitis caused by gram-negative organisms other than ill patients with ESBL-E infections. Higher doses of ertapenem E. coli due to the likely presence of the fosA gene and its ability (eg, 1.5 grams) or more frequent dosing (eg, every 12 hours) to inactive this agent (Question 1.1). may circumvent some of the probability of target attainment is- Nitrofurantoin does not achieve adequate concentrations in sues with ertapenem in obese and critically ill patients with hy- the renal parenchyma and is not advised for the treatment of poalbuminemia, respectively, but data for these alternative pyelonephritis or cUTI. Doxycycline is also not advised for dosing strategies are limited [67, 69–71]. the treatment of ESBL-E pyelonephritis or cUTIs due to its lim- The clinical trial that established carbapenem therapy as the ited urinary excretion (Question 1.1) . The roles of treatment of choice for ESBL-E bloodstream infections ran- piperacillin-tazobactam, cefepime, and the cephamycins for domized 391 patients with ceftriaxone non-susceptible E. coli the treatment of pyelonephritis or cUTIs are discussed in or K. pneumoniae (87% later confirmed to have ESBL genes) Question 1.4, Question 1.5, and Question 1.6, respectively. to piperacillin-tazobactam 4.5 g IV every 6 hours or merope- nem 1 g IV every 8 hours, both as standard infusions (ie, over 30 minutes). The primary outcome of 30-day mortality oc- Question 1.3: What Are Preferred Antibiotics for the Treatment of Infections Outside of the Urinary Tract Caused by ESBL-E? curred in 12% and 4% of patients receiving piperacillin- Suggested approach: Meropenem, imipenem-cilastatin, or er- tazobactam and meropenem, respectively . Trial data tapenem are preferred for the treatment of infections outside of were subsequently reanalyzed only including patients with clin- the urinary tract caused by ESBL-E. For patients who are crit- ical isolates against which piperacillin-tazobactam MICs were ically ill and/or experiencing hypoalbuminemia, meropenem, ≤16 µg/mL by broth microdilution, the reference standard or imipenem-cilastatin are the preferred carbapenems. After for AST . Reanalyzing the data from 320 (82%) patients 6 • CID • Tamma et al Downloaded from by guest on May occurred in 9% vs 4% of those in the piperacillin-tazobactam serum albumin and patients who are not critically ill. and meropenem arms, respectively. Although the absolute Data from observational studies support the use of oral step- risk difference was attenuated and no longer significant in the down therapy for Enterobacterales
