Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


testing interpretations refer to: Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute. 2024. M100: Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing. 34th ed. Wayne, PA. CLSI M100 document is updated annually; susceptibility criteria subject to changes in 2025. bBreakpoints only available for infections originating from the urinary tract. cIsolates with cefepime minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of 4–8 µg/mL are susceptible dose-dependent. dNo susceptible category for colistin or polymyxin B; MICs ≤2 µg/mL considered intermediate. eApplies to Escherichia coli urinary tract isolates only. fIsolates with piperacillin-tazobactam MICs of 16 µg/mL are considered susceptible dose-dependent. gNo Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) breakpoint. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) defines susceptibility as MICs ≤2 µg/mL. hNeither CLSI nor FDA breakpoints are available. AMR Treatment Guidance • CID • 7 Downloaded from by guest on May Amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, omadacycline, and doxycycline change or extension of antibiotic therapy is necessary, as un- have limited data to support their efficacy for ESBL-E blood- complicated cystitis often resolves on its own. Determining stream infections. the role of piperacillin-tazobactam for the treatment of ESBL-E pyelonephritis or cUTI is a more challenging. Question 1.4: Is There a Role for Piperacillin-tazobactam in the Treatment Several observational studies have found similar clinical out- of Infections Caused by ESBL-E? comes when comparing the efficacy of piperacillin-tazobactam Suggested approach: If piperacillin-tazobactam was initiated as and carbapenems for the treatment of ESBL-E pyelonephritis change or extension of antibiotic therapy is necessary. The panel ed 66 patients with ESBL-producing E. coli pyelonephritis or suggests TMP-SMX, ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, or carbapenems cUTI (with confirmation of the presence of ESBL genes) ran- rather than piperacillin-tazobactam for the treatment of ESBL-E domized to either piperacillin-tazobactam 4.5 g IV every 6 clinical failure with piperacillin-tazobactam may be low. was similar between the groups at 94% for piperacillin- Piperacillin-tazobactam is not suggested for the treatment of in- tazobactam and 97% for ertapenem. These studies suggest non- fections outside of the urinary tract caused by ESBL-E, even if sus- inferiority between piperacillin-tazobactam and carbapenems ceptibility to piperacillin-tazobactam is demonstrated. for pyelonephritis or cUTIs. In the subgroup of 231 patients with ESBL-E bloodstream infections from a urinary source in Piperacillin-tazobactam often demonstrates in vitro activity ity was identified in the piperacillin-tazobactam group (7% vs against ESBL-E . However, there are several concerns regard- 3%) , although not achieving statistical significance. ing tazobactam’s ability to function as an effective β-lactamase in- Evaluating the totality of the data, the
