Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


However, there are several concerns regard- 3%) , although not achieving statistical significance. ing tazobactam’s ability to function as an effective β-lactamase in- Evaluating the totality of the data, the panel prefers carbape- hibitor. First, piperacillin-tazobactam MIC testing may be nem therapy (or oral trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, cipro- inaccurate and/or poorly reproducible when ESBL enzymes are floxacin, or levofloxacin, if susceptible) for the treatment of present, or in the presence of other β-lactamase enzymes such ESBL-E pyelonephritis or cUTIs but acknowledges it may be as OXA-1, making it unclear if an isolate that tests susceptible reasonable to prescribe piperacillin-tazobactam for these infec- to this agent is reliably susceptible [72, 76–79]. Second, preclinical tions based on the results of available comparative effectiveness data indicate that with increased bacterial inoculum which may be studies. If piperacillin-tazobactam was initiated as empiric of piperacillin-tazobactam compared with meropenem; the clini- decision to continue piperacillin-tazobactam should be made cal implications of these findings are unclear [80–82]. Third, the with the understanding that theoretically there may be an in- effectiveness of tazobactam may be diminished for organisms creased risk for microbiological failure with this approach. with increased expression of ESBL enzymes or by the presence Observational studies have had conflicting results regarding of multiple ESBL or other β-lactamases (eg, AmpC enzymes) the effectiveness of piperacillin-tazobactam for the treatment of . This may in part be due to the low concentration of tazobac- ESBL-E bloodstream infections [91–103]. A clinical trial of tam relative to the amount of piperacillin. As an example, in a ESBL-E bloodstream infections indicated inferior results with 4.5 g dose of piperacillin-tazobactam there is an 8:1 ratio of piper- piperacillin-tazobactam compared to carbapenem therapy acillin to tazobactam (ie, 4 grams of piperacillin and 0.5 grams of (Question 1.3) . A second trial investigating the role of tazobactam). In contrast, in a 3 g dose of ceftolozane there is a 2:1 piperacillin-tazobactam for the treatment of ESBL-E blood- ratio of ceftolozane to tazobactam. It is plausible that the lower stream infections is ongoing . dose of tazobactam in piperacillin-tazobactam may limit its abil- In 2022, the CLSI lowered the piperacillin-tazobactam ities as an inhibitor . Finally, the piperacillin-tazobactam breakpoints for the Enterobacterales. MICs of ≤8/4 µg/mL breakpoint for Enterobacterales is primarily based on PK/PD con- are considered susceptible, and a MIC of 16 µg/mL is consid- fixed concentration of 4 µg/mL of tazobactam in testing wells is trial
