Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


Enterobacterales is primarily based on PK/PD con- are considered susceptible, and a MIC of 16 µg/mL is consid- fixed concentration of 4 µg/mL of tazobactam in testing wells is trial mentioned in Question 1.3, 94% of isolates would have reflective of the restorative ability of common tazobactam been considered susceptible or susceptible dose-dependent to dosages to reestablish the activity of piperacillin in the setting of piperacillin-tazobactam if applying the revised piperacillin- ESBL enzymes . tazobactam breakpoints, indicating that in the presence of If piperacillin-tazobactam was initiated as empiric therapy ESBL production, susceptibility to piperacillin-tazobactam 8 • CID • Tamma et al Downloaded from by guest on May Question 1.5: Is There a Role for Cefepime in the Treatment Rationale of Infections Caused by ESBL-E? The cephamycins are cephalosporins that are generally able to Suggested approach: If cefepime was initiated as empiric ther- withstand hydrolysis from ESBL enzymes . The ceph- apy for uncomplicated cystitis caused by an organism later amycins available in the United States are cefoxitin and cefote- tan, which are both IV agents. At least 10 observational studies change or extension of antibiotic therapy is necessary. The pan- have compared the clinical outcomes of patients with ESBL-E el suggests avoiding cefepime for the treatment of pyelonephri- infections—generally UTIs or bloodstream infections from tis or cUTI. Cefepime is also not suggested for the treatment of urinary sources—treated with cephamycins vs carbapenems infections outside of the urinary tract caused by ESBL-E, even if [116–125]. Eight of the 10 investigations found no difference susceptibility to cefepime is demonstrated. strated poorer outcomes with cephamycins . One of Rationale the 2 studies included 57 patients with K. pneumoniae blood- ESBLs commonly hydrolyze cefepime . Furthermore, stream infections; 14-day mortality was 55% and 39% in the even if ESBL-producing isolates test susceptible to cefepime, ce- cephamycin and carbapenem arms, respectively . The fepime MIC testing may be inaccurate and/or poorly reproduc- second study was the largest published to date, including 380 ible with commercial AST methods . Clinical trials patients with E. coli and K. pneumoniae bloodstream infections; designed to compare the outcomes of patients with ESBL-E 30-day mortality was 29% vs 13% in the cephamycin (ie, flox- bloodstream infections treated with cefepime or carbapenem omef) and carbapenem arms, respectively . Importantly, have not been conducted. all 8 studies were observational, included diverse sources of If cefepime was initiated as empiric therapy for uncomplicat-
