Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


carbapenem omef) and carbapenem arms, respectively . Importantly, have not been conducted. all 8 studies were observational, included diverse sources of If cefepime was initiated as empiric therapy for uncomplicat- infection, had notable selection bias, and used a variety of ceph- ed cystitis caused by an organism later identified as an ESBL-E amycins with differences in dosing, duration, and frequency of tibiotic therapy is necessary, as uncomplicated cystitis often re- The panel does not suggest cephamycins for the treatment of solves on its own. Limited data are available evaluating the role ESBL-E infections, including ESBL-E uncomplicated cystitis. of cefepime vs carbapenems for ESBL-E pyelonephritis and Many of the cephamycins investigated in observational studies molecularly confirmed ESBL-E pyelonephritis and cUTI termi- patients received cefoxitin or cefotetan in published studies signal with cefepime (2 g IV every 12 hours), despite all isolates with these agents for the treatment of ESBL-E infections are nec- having cefepime MICs of 1–2 µg/mL . Until more robust essary before advocating for their use—including optimal dosing comparative effectiveness studies are available to inform the and frequency of administration. Data suggest more favorable role of cefepime, the panel suggests avoiding cefepime for the outcomes with high-dose, continuous infusion cefoxitin (ie, treatment of ESBL-E pyelonephritis or cUTI. 6 g per day infused continuously) , but this is challeng- Clinical trials comparing cefepime to carbapenems for ESBL-E ing to administer. As both cefotetan and cefoxitin are only avail- bloodstream infections have not been conducted. However, a ran- able IV and have relatively short half-lives, there does not appear domized trial comparing cefepime (2 g IV every 8 hours) to to be a feasibility advantage with use of these agents over pre- imipenem-cilastatin (500 mg IV every 6 hours) for nosocomial ferred agents for the treatment of ESBL-E infections. pneumonia identified clinical failure in 4 of 13 patients (31%) with pneumonia due to ESBL-E in the cefepime arm, compared Question 1.7: What Is the Role of Newer β-Lactam-β-Lactamase Inhibitor to none of 10 patients (0%) in the imipenem-cilastatin arm Combinations and Cefiderocol for the Treatment of Infections Caused by . Observational studies that compare cefepime and carbape- ESBL-E? Suggested approach: The panel suggests that ceftazidime- nems for the treatment of invasive ESBL-E infections demonstrat- avibactam, meropenem-vaborbactam, imipenem-cilastatin- ed either no difference in outcomes or poorer outcomes with relebactam, ceftolozane-tazobactam, and cefiderocol be cefepime [110–113]. For these reasons, the panel suggests avoid-
