Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


ESBL-E infections demonstrat- avibactam, meropenem-vaborbactam, imipenem-cilastatin- ed either no difference in outcomes or poorer outcomes with relebactam, ceftolozane-tazobactam, and cefiderocol be cefepime [110–113]. For these reasons, the panel suggests avoid- preferentially reserved for treating infections caused by or- ing cefepime for the treatment of invasive ESBL-E infections. ganisms exhibiting carbapenem resistance. Question 1.6: Is There a Role for the Cephamycins in the Treatment of Infections Caused by ESBL-E? Rationale Suggested approach: Cephamycins are not suggested for the Ceftazidime-avibactam, meropenem-vaborbactam, imipenem- data using cefoxitin or cefotetan are available and optimal dos- exhibit activity against ESBL-E [127–129]. Avibactam is able to ing has been defined. successfully protect ceftazidime against hydrolysis by binding AMR Treatment Guidance • CID • 9 Downloaded from by guest on May to and inhibiting the function of ESBL enzymes . (frequently carried on plasmids, but sometimes integrated into Subgroup analysis of clinical trial data support ceftazidime- the bacterial chromosome) [147–149]. avibactam effectiveness against ESBL-E infections [131–135]. Increased AmpC enzyme production resulting from inducible The carbapenem component of meropenem-vaborbactam ampC expression can occur in the presence of specific antibiotics and imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam provide sufficient activity and results in sufficient AmpC enzyme in the periplasmic space against ESBL-E, even without the addition of a β-lactamase to increase MICs to certain antibiotics (ie, ceftriaxone, cefotax- inhibitor. ime, ceftazidime, aztreonam, and piperacillin-tazobactam). In Ceftolozane-tazobactam appears more potent against this scenario, an Enterobacterales isolate that initially tests sus- ESBL-E than piperacillin-tazobactam with ceftolozane MICs ceptible to ceftriaxone may exhibit non-susceptibility to this reducing several dilutions lower than piperacillin MICs, with agent after treatment with ceftriaxone is initiated. In this guid- the addition of tazobactam [136–141]. Moreover, ceftolozane ance document, such organisms are described as having a mod- appears to have greater stability to hydrolysis by common erate risk for clinically significant AmpC production. Resistance ESBL enzymes (eg, CTX-M-15) compared to piperacillin, mak- due to ampC induction can be observed after even a few doses of ing ceftolozane less reliant than piperacillin on tazobactam’s in- ceftriaxone, cefotaxime, or ceftazidime . hibitory properties . Additionally, the ratio of For the other 2 mechanisms (ie, stable chromosomal β-lactam to tazobactam present in ceftolozane-tazobactam de-repression or constitutively overexpressed ampC genes), (2:1) results in greater concentration of tazobactam compared AmpC production is always increased. Isolates with either of to piperacillin-tazobactam (8:1). these 2 mechanisms typically test non-susceptible to ceftriaxone, In a subgroup analysis of 72 patients with ESBL-E intra-
