Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


AmpC production is always increased. Isolates with either of to piperacillin-tazobactam (8:1). these 2 mechanisms typically test non-susceptible to ceftriaxone, In a subgroup analysis of 72 patients with ESBL-E intra- cefotaxime, and/or ceftazidime. As such, infections by organisms ceftolozane-tazobactam was associated with similar clinical ment dilemma than infections caused by isolates with inducible paring ceftolozane-tazobactam vs meropenem for pneumonia, some Enterobacterales isolates (eg, certain Escherichia coli and 28-day mortality in the subgroup of patients with ESBL-E Shigella spp.) contain mutations in promoter or attenuator re- pneumonia was similar between the 84 patients receiving gions of ampC or other related genes (eg, ampD, ampR, ceftolozane-tazobactam (21%) and the 73 patients receiving ampG), stably de-repressing gene expression . For the eradication rates were also similar between the ceftolozane- blaCMY, blaFOX, blaDHA, blaACT, blaMIR) occurs . tazobactam and meropenem arms. These ampC genes can be found either on plasmids (eg, Although ceftazidime-avibactam, meropenem-vaborbactam, blaCMY in E. coli) or be integrated into the bacterial chromo- imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam, ceftolozane-tazobactam, and some (eg, blaCMY in Citrobacter freundii). In this document, cefiderocol are expected to be effective against ESBL-E infec- we will focus on the treatment of infections by Enterobacterales tions, the panel suggests that these agents be preferentially species with a moderate likelihood of inducible ampC gene ex- reserved for treating carbapenem-resistant organisms or polymi- pression (ie, the first of the 3 mechanisms) . crobial infections including organisms exhibiting carbapenem resistance (eg, ceftolozane-tazobactam for coinfection with Question 2.1: Which Commonly Identified Enterobacterales Species DTR P. aeruginosa and ESBL-E). Should Be Considered at Moderate Risk for Clinically Significant Inducible ampC Production? Suggested approach: Enterobacter cloacae complex, Klebsiella SECTION 2: AMPC β-LACTAMASE-PRODUCING aerogenes, and Citrobacter freundii are the most common ENTEROBACTERALES Enterobacterales at moderate risk for clinically significant in- AmpC β-lactamases are enzymes that are produced at basal lev- ducible AmpC production. els by a number of Enterobacterales and glucose non-fermenting gram-negative organisms. Their primary function is to assist Rationale with cell wall recycling . AmpC β-lactamases are capable Quantifying the likelihood of ampC induction across bacterial of hydrolyzing a number of β-lactam agents (to a level that makes species would be best defined by systematically identifying or- the agents ineffective), some in settings of basal AmpC produc- ganisms initially susceptible to certain β-lactam agents (eg, cef- tion (eg, cefazolin) and others in settings of increased AmpC triaxone) that, on subsequent isolation (and after β-lactam production (eg, ceftriaxone). Increased
