Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


initially susceptible to certain β-lactam agents (eg, cef- tion (eg, cefazolin) and others in settings of increased AmpC triaxone) that, on subsequent isolation (and after β-lactam production (eg, ceftriaxone). Increased AmpC production by exposure), become resistant, with genotyping and expression Enterobacterales generally occurs by 1 of 3 mechanisms: (1) in- studies to confirm that the same organism was recovered and ducible chromosomal gene expression, (2) stable chromosomal that AmpC production significantly increased. Unfortunately, gene de-repression, or (3) constitutively expressed ampC genes such studies are not available. 10 • CID • Tamma et al Downloaded from by guest on May AmpC production (eg, SPACE, SPICE, ESCPM) obscure the alvei, Citrobacter youngae, Yersinia enterocolitica) that carry in- wide range of ampC induction potential among gram-negative ducible chromosomal ampC genes have not undergone signifi- organisms and ignore variance within bacterial genera [147, cant investigation [164, 167–169]. As such, descriptions of their 148]. For example, C. freundii harbors a chromosomal ampC, potential for clinically significant AmpC production are very whereas Citrobacter koseri does not [155–157]. Thus, current limited. It is reasonable to use AST results to guide treatment acronyms may be overly simplistic and associated with both decisions if these organisms are recovered in clinical cultures an “undercalling” and “overcalling” of the likelihood of clini- (eg, administer ceftriaxone if susceptible to ceftriaxone). cally significant AmpC production among individual bacterial When treating infections caused by these less commonly recov- species. As another example, “indole positive Proteus species” ered organisms (or caused by S. marcescens, M. morgannii, or are often included in existing acronyms. Indole-positive Providencia spp.) with a high bacterial burden and limited Proteus spp. currently refers to organisms such as P. vulgaris, source control (eg, endocarditis, central nervous system infec- which generally does not contain a chromosomal ampC gene. tions), it is alternatively reasonable to consider treatment with The terminology “indole positive Proteus species” previously cefepime instead of ceftriaxone, even if the organism tests sus- included Proteus rettgeri and Proteus morganii (since renamed ceptible to ceftriaxone. As with all infections, if an adequate , making the inclusion of “indole-positive Proteus spp.” tibiotic therapy is initiated and necessary source control mea- in mnemonics for organisms at moderate risk of AmpC pro- sures are taken, clinicians should consider the possibility of duction no longer accurate. the emergence of resistance to the initially prescribed agent. The emergence of clinically relevant ampC expression dur- ing antibiotic treatment has
