Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


should consider the possibility of duction no longer accurate. the emergence of resistance to the initially prescribed agent. The emergence of clinically relevant ampC expression dur- ing antibiotic treatment has been most frequently described Question 2.2: What Features Should Be Considered in Selecting for E. cloacae complex (herein referred to as E. cloacae for Antibiotics for Infections Caused by Organisms at Moderate Risk of simplicity), K. aerogenes (formerly Enterobacter aerogenes), Clinically Significant AmpC Production Due to an Inducible ampC Gene? and C. freundii. Clinical reports suggest that the emergence Suggested approach: Several β-lactam antibiotics are at mod- erate risk of inducing ampC genes. Both the ability to induce of resistance after exposure to an agent like ceftriaxone may ampC genes and the relative stability of the agent against hy- occur in approximately 20% of infections caused by these in vitro mutation rate analyses, which also suggest that these organisms are likely to overexpress ampC . Rationale Therefore, when E. cloacae, K. aerogenes, or C. freundii are β-lactam antibiotics fall within a spectrum of potential for in- uncomplicated cystitis), the panel suggests generally avoiding lin), narrow-spectrum (ie, first-generation) cephalosporins, treatment with ceftriaxone, cefotaxime, or ceftazidime, even and cephamycins are potent ampC inducers . if an isolate initially tests susceptible to these agents However, both organisms at low risk (eg, S. marcescens) and (Question 2.2). Even without upregulation of AmpC at moderate risk (eg, E. cloacae) for clinically significant production, basal production of AmpC β-lactamases in ampC induction hydrolyze these antibiotics even at basal these organisms leads to intrinsic resistance to ampicillin, ampC expression levels. Therefore, such AmpC-E isolates will amoxicillin-clavulanate, ampicillin-sulbactam, and first- generally test as resistant to these drugs, averting treatment and second-generation cephalosporins . dilemmas. In contrast, other organisms historically presumed to be at Imipenem is also a potent ampC inducer but it generally re- moderate risk for the development of clinically significant mains stable to AmpC-E hydrolysis because of the formation of ampC expression, such as Serratia marcescens, Morganella mor- stable acyl enzyme complexes . The induction potential of ganii, and Providencia spp., are significantly less likely to overex- ertapenem and meropenem has not been formally investigated reports . Available data suggest that clinically sig- drolysis . Ceftriaxone, cefotaxime, ceftazidime, nificant AmpC production occurs in less than 5% of these organ- piperacillin-tazobactam, and aztreonam are relatively weak isms. When S. marcescens, M. morgannii, or Providencia spp. are ampC
