Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


cefotaxime, ceftazidime, nificant AmpC production occurs in less than 5% of these organ- piperacillin-tazobactam, and aztreonam are relatively weak isms. When S. marcescens, M. morgannii, or Providencia spp. are ampC inducers . Available evidence indicates that de- tibiotic treatment according to AST results. Basal production of these agents to hydrolysis makes them less likely to be effective AmpC β-lactamase renders these organisms intrinsically resis- for the treatment of infections by organisms at moderate risk tant to ampicillin, amoxicillin-clavulanate, and first- and for clinically significant AmpC production [173, 175–177]. second-generation cephalosporins . They remain, however, reasonable treatment options for AMR Treatment Guidance • CID • 11 Downloaded from by guest on May Enterobacterales at lower risk for clinically significant AmpC cefepime for infections caused by non-ESBL-producing production (eg, S. marcescens). cefepime isolates with MICs of 4–8 µg/mL died within Cefepime has the advantage of both being a weak inducer of 30 days . ampC and of withstanding hydrolysis by AmpC β-lactamases Data are incomplete on the frequency of ESBL production by because of the formation of stable acyl enzyme complexes Enterobacterales at moderate risk of clinically significant AmpC . Therefore, cefepime is generally an effective agent production in the United States. An evaluation of 211 consecu- for the treatment of AmpC-E infections . TMP-SMX, flu- tive E. cloacae isolates from 66 United States hospitals from 2019 oroquinolones, aminoglycosides, tetracyclines, and other to 2020 indicated that 3% contained a blaCTX-M gene . non-β-lactam antibiotics do not induce ampC and are also A study from Pittsburgh found that 15 of 45 (33%) E. cloacae not substrates for AmpC hydrolysis. bloodstream isolates collected between 2003 and 2005 produced SHV-type ESBLs . There was no association between ESBL production and the cefepime MIC. A study from Baltimore Question 2.3: What Is the Role of Cefepime for the Treatment of Infections Caused by Enterobacterales at Moderate Risk of Clinically Significant found that ESBL genes were identified in 22% of K. aerogenes AmpC Production Due to an Inducible ampC Gene? (4/18), 14% of E. cloacae (7/51), and in no C. freundii (0/8 Suggested approach: Cefepime is suggested for the treatment [0%]) bloodstream isolates collected between 2018–2021 . of infections caused by organisms at moderate risk of signifi- There was no correlation between the presence of an ESBL cant AmpC production (ie, E. cloacae complex, K. aerogenes, gene and the cefepime MIC; none of the ESBL-producing iso- and
