Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


There was no correlation between the presence of an ESBL cant AmpC production (ie, E. cloacae complex, K. aerogenes, gene and the cefepime MIC; none of the ESBL-producing iso- and C. freundii). lates had cefepime MICs of 4–8 µg/mL . Contemporary data specific to the United States are needed Rationale to better understand how frequently ESBLs are produced by Cefepime is an oxyimino-cephalosporin that is relatively stable Enterobacterales at moderate risk of clinically significant against AmpC enzymes and that also has low ampC induction AmpC production. Available data do not suggest there is outcomes of patients with AmpC-E infections treated with ce- dependent MICs (ie, MICs 4–8 µg/mL) and ESBL production. fepime vs carbapenem therapy are not available. However, sev- Cefepime susceptible dose-dependent MICs are based on eral observational studies suggest cefepime is associated with cefepime dosages of 2 grams every 8 hours, infused over 3 186]. Furthermore, a meta-analysis including seven studies Enterobacterales infections with cefepime MICs in this range vs carbapenems for Enterobacter spp., Citrobacter spp., and Serratia spp. bloodstream infections did not find differences Question 2.4: What Is the Role of Ceftriaxone for the Treatment of in clinical outcomes between these treatment regimens . Infections Caused by Enterobacterales at Moderate Risk of Clinically However, considerable heterogeneity between studies existed, Significant AmpC Production Due to an Inducible ampC Gene? Suggested approach: Ceftriaxone (or cefotaxime or ceftazidime) ill-appearing patients were more likely to receive carbapenem is not suggested for the treatment of invasive infections caused therapy, and risk of clinically significant AmpC production var- by organisms at moderate risk of clinically significant AmpC ied by the included species. In light of both the advantages of production (eg, E. cloacae complex, K. aerogenes, and C. freun- cefepime as a compound and no clear clinical failure signals dii). Ceftriaxone is reasonable for uncomplicated cystitis caused in the literature when administered for the treatment of by these organisms when susceptibility is demonstrated. AmpC-E infections, the panel suggests cefepime as a preferred treatment option for E. cloacae, K. aerogenes, and C. freundii in- fections (Table 1). Rationale Although cefepime may be effective for the treatment of Clinical reports differ on how frequently resistance to ceftriax- AmpC-E infections, it remains suboptimal against infections one emerges during the treatment of infections by caused by ESBL-E, which is a consideration if both enzymes Enterobacterales at moderate risk for clinically significant may be produced by an Enterobacterales
