Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


emerges during the treatment of infections by caused by ESBL-E, which is a consideration if both enzymes Enterobacterales at moderate risk for clinically significant may be produced by an Enterobacterales (Question 1.5). In a ampC induction. Several challenges exist when interpreting study from Taiwan, 89% of E. cloacae isolates with cefepime studies that have attempted to address this question. First, there ESBL-producing . The same study evaluated 217 patients isolates, making quantifying their production difficult. Second, with E. cloacae bloodstream infections and found that all 10 pa- these organisms may display ceftriaxone resistance for other rea- tients with infections caused by ESBL-producing isolates with sons (eg, ESBL production); however, such mechanisms are rare- in 30 days. In contrast, none of the 6 patients who received K. pneumoniae, K. oxytoca, and P. mirabilis. Third, studies often 12 • CID • Tamma et al Downloaded from by guest on May combine estimates for organisms at low risk for significant Question 2.5: What Is the Role of Piperacillin-Tazobactam for the AmpC production (eg, S. marcescens, M. morgannii) with those Treatment of Infections Caused by Enterobacterales at Moderate Risk of Clinically Significant AmpC Production Due to an Inducible ampC Gene? posing a higher risk (eg, E. cloacae, C. freundii), obscuring an un- Suggested approach: Piperacillin-tazobactam is not suggested for derstanding of how frequently resistance to ceftriaxone emerges the treatment of invasive infections caused by Enterobacterales for organisms at moderate risk for clinically significant AmpC at moderate risk of clinically significant inducible AmpC production . Fourth, studies that evaluate the proportion production. of isolates exhibiting ceftriaxone non-susceptibility after ceftriax- one exposure do not include confirmation of genetic relatedness of index and subsequent isolates. Additionally, many AmpC Rationale ceftriaxone MICs ≤8 µg/mL), making translation of prevalence hydrolysis than newer β-lactamase inhibitors, such as avibactam, estimates to current CLSI ceftriaxone susceptibility breakpoints relebactam, and vaborbactam . The role of of ≤1 µg/mL challenging . Finally, in addition to selec- piperacillin-tazobactam in treating Enterobacterales at moderate tion bias, there is significant heterogeneity in sources of infec- risk for clinically significant AmpC production remains uncer- tions, severity of illness, pre-existing medical conditions, tain. A 2019 meta-analysis summarized the findings of eight ob- co-administration of additional antibiotics, and ceftriaxone dos- servational studies and did not identify a difference in mortality ing and duration across studies, complicating the interpretation between patients treated with piperacillin-tazobactam and These limitations notwithstanding, available data suggest
