Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


servational studies and did not identify a difference in mortality ing and duration across studies, complicating the interpretation between patients treated with piperacillin-tazobactam and These limitations notwithstanding, available data suggest Citrobacter spp., or Serratia spp. . However, significant het- that the emergence of resistance after ceftriaxone exposure oc- erogeneity across studies and confounding by indication likely curs in approximately 20% of infections caused by E. cloacae, existed (ie, ill appearing patients were more likely to be pre- K. aerogenes, or C. freundii [150, 159–163, 190–192]. scribed carbapenems). In 2 observational studies included in Comparative effectiveness studies addressing the management this meta-analysis, 30-day mortality among patients treated of presumed AmpC-producing infections have mostly focused with piperacillin-tazobactam was numerically higher than for on the emergence of ceftriaxone resistance, rather than on clin- patients treated with carbapenems (15% [6/41 patients] vs 7% ical outcomes. No clinical trials have compared the outcomes of [3/41 patients] and 45% [10/22 patients] vs 11% [5/45 pa- patients with presumed AmpC-E infections treated with ceftri- tients], respectively) . At least 2 other observational studies axone compared to alternate agents (eg, cefepime). A number including 103 and 81 patients, respectively, with bloodstream in- of observational studies compared the clinical outcomes of fections caused by Enterobacterales known to harbor chromo- and C. freundii treated with ceftriaxone compared with other outcomes for patients treated with piperacillin-tazobactam com- β-lactams [160, 190, 191, 193–197]. Most of these studies did pared with cefepime or carbapenem therapy . not identify differences in clinical outcomes when comparing A pilot unblinded clinical trial compared the outcomes of patients treated with ceftriaxone vs carbapenems, with the lim- 72 patients with bloodstream infections caused by itations outlined above. Enterobacter spp., K. aerogenes, C. freundii, M. morganii, Nonetheless, because available data indicate a reasonable risk Providencia spp., or S. marcescens randomized to piperacillin- for the emergence of resistance when ceftriaxone (or other tazobactam (4.5 grams IV every 6 hours as a standard infu- third-generation cephalosporins) is prescribed for infections sion) or meropenem (1 gram IV every 8 hours as a standard caused by organisms at moderate risk of AmpC production infusion) . There were no significant differences in the (ie, infections caused by E. cloacae, K. aerogenes, C. freundii), primary outcome (a composite outcome including 30-day sporins when treating infections caused by these organisms. ological relapse) between the study arms. However, some no- Based on the mild nature of uncomplicated
