Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


outcome (a composite outcome including 30-day sporins when treating infections caused by these organisms. ological relapse) between the study arms. However, some no- Based on the mild nature of uncomplicated cystitis and the suf- table and seemingly conflicting findings were observed for ficient urinary excretion of ceftriaxone, ceftriaxone may be ad- individual components of this composite outcome: mortality cystitis. For other relatively uncomplicated infections it may be crobiological failure (13% vs 0%), P = .03), and microbiologi- provement has been achieved and if there are no concerns and meropenem arms, respectively. The findings of this trial for ongoing sources of infection (eg, abscesses, indwelling are challenging to interpret and a larger trial is needed to catheters), weighing the convenience of once-daily ceftriaxone more definitively determine the role of piperacillin- dosing with the potentially increased risk of emergence of tazobactam for the treatment of organisms at moderate risk resistance. for clinically significant ampC induction. AMR Treatment Guidance • CID • 13 Downloaded from by guest on May In light of the limited ability of tazobactam to protect piper- Ceftolozane was developed to be more resistant to hydrolysis acillin from AmpC hydrolysis in vitro and at least 4 observa- than earlier cephalosporins against Pseudomonas-derived AmpC prescribed piperacillin-tazobactam , the tazobactam’s activity against AmpC-E. Tazobactam is less effec- panel suggests against prescribing piperacillin-tazobactam for tive at protecting β-lactams from AmpC hydrolysis compared serious infections caused by AmpC-E. with newer β-lactamase inhibitors, such as avibactam, relebac- Piperacillin-tazobactam may be a reasonable treatment op- tam, and vaborbactam . Although some in vi- tion for mild infections such as uncomplicated cystitis – al- tro data suggest ceftolozane-tazobactam has activity against though narrower-spectrum agents are generally preferred. AmpC-E , in at least 1 investigation the agent was active For other relatively uncomplicated infections it may be reason- against only 19% of E. cloacae isolates producing moderate levels able to transition to piperacillin-tazobactam in settings of ad- of AmpC enzymes . Clinical outcomes data for ceftolozane- verse events to preferred agents (eg, neurotoxicity associated tazobactam for the treatment of AmpC-E infections are limited; bial infections), after considering the potentially increased risk on the limited available data, the panel suggests against the use of of treatment failure with piperacillin-tazobactam therapy. This ceftolozane-tazobactam as a treatment option for AmpC-E practice is only advised after clinical improvement has been infections. achieved and if there are no concerns for ongoing sources of
