Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


therapy. This ceftolozane-tazobactam as a treatment option for AmpC-E practice is only advised after clinical improvement has been infections. achieved and if there are no concerns for ongoing sources of in- In polymicrobial infections in which DTR P. aeruginosa and fection (eg, abscesses, indwelling catheters). AmpC-E are isolated, the use of ceftolozane-tazobactam can be considered, after weighing the pros and cons of this approach, Question 2.6: What Is the Role of Newer β-Lactam-β-Lactamase Inhibitor to limit exposure to multiple agents and their associated toxic- Combinations and Cefiderocol for the Treatment of Infections Caused by ities. However, if this approach is taken, close monitoring of pa- Enterobacterales at Moderate Risk of Clinically Significant AmpC tients for an appropriate clinical response is advised. Production Due to an Inducible ampC Gene? Suggested approach: The panel suggests that ceftazidime- avibactam, meropenem-vaborbactam, imipenem-cilastatin- Question 2.7: What Is the Role of Non-β-Lactam Therapy for the Treatment relebactam, and cefiderocol be preferentially reserved for treat- of Infections Caused by Enterobacterales at Moderate Risk of Clinically Significant AmpC Production Due to an Inducible ampC Gene? ing infections caused by organisms exhibiting carbapenem Suggested approach: Nitrofurantoin and TMP-SMX are pre- resistance. The panel does not suggest the use of ceftolozane- ferred treatment options for uncomplicated cystitis caused by tazobactam as a treatment option for AmpC-E infections. AmpC-E. Ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, or an aminoglycoside (as a single dose) are alternative treatment options for Rationale AmpC-E uncomplicated cystitis. TMP-SMX, ciprofloxacin, or Ceftazidime-avibactam, meropenem-vaborbactam, and levofloxacin are preferred treatment options for pyelonephritis imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam generally exhibit in vitro activ- or cUTIs caused by AmpC-E. ity against AmpC-E [130, 202–204]. Ceftazidime-avibactam is Aminoglycosides are alternative options for pyelonephritis likely to be effective as a treatment for infections caused by or cUTI when resistance or toxicities preclude the use of AmpC-E . Although the frequency is unknown, emer- TMP-SMX or fluoroquinolones. For AmpC-E infections out- gence of resistance of AmpC-E to ceftazidime-avibactam has side of the urinary tract, transitioning from cefepime to oral been described, generally due to amino acid changes in the TMP-SMX, ciprofloxacin, or levofloxacin should be consid- omega loop region of the AmpC enzyme [206–208]. ered, if susceptibility is demonstrated. Carbapenems are generally stable to hydrolysis by AmpC-E; by extension meropenem-vaborbactam and imipenem- cilastatin-relebactam are expected to be effective treatment op- Rationale tions for AmpC-E. Preferred treatment options for AmpC-E uncomplicated cysti- Cefiderocol demonstrates in vitro activity against AmpC-E tis include nitrofurantoin or
