Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


cilastatin-relebactam are expected to be effective treatment op- Rationale tions for AmpC-E. Preferred treatment options for AmpC-E uncomplicated cysti- Cefiderocol demonstrates in vitro activity against AmpC-E tis include nitrofurantoin or TMP-SMX . although some case reports indicate the potential for sides are alternative are alternative treatment options for AmpC-E to develop resistance to this agent . AmpC-E uncomplicated cystitis, as described in Question 1.1. Although ceftazidime-avibactam, meropenem-vaborbactam, TMP-SMX, ciprofloxacin, or levofloxacin are preferred imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam, and cefiderocol are likely to treatment options for pyelonephritis or cUTIs caused by be effective against AmpC-E infections, the panel suggests AmpC-E , as described in Question 1.2. Cefepime is that these agents be preferentially reserved for treating infec- a preferred agent for pyelonephritis or cUTI when resistance tions caused by organisms exhibiting carbapenem resistance, or toxicities preclude the use of TMP-SMX or fluoroquino- where a greater need for them exists. lones. Aminoglycosides are alternative options for the 14 • CID • Tamma et al Downloaded from by guest on May treatment of AmpC-E pyelonephritis or cUTI as discussed in to 2021 from across the United States found that 83% of isolates Question 1.2. were carbapenemase producing (blaKPC [80%], blaNDM [15%], The role of TMP-SMX or fluoroquinolones for the treatment blaIMP [5%], blaOXA-48-like [7%]); between 2019 and 2021 the of AmpC-E infections outside of the urinary tract has not percentages of blaKPC decreased from 74% to 57%, whereas TMP-SMX nor fluoroquinolones are substrates for AmpC hy- blaVIM, blaIMP) increased from 4% to 20% and those with drolysis. Transitioning to oral TMP-SMX or fluoroquinolones blaOXA-48-like increased from 1% to 8% . has been shown to be effective for Enterobacterales blood- Knowledge of the carbapenemase produced when CRE is are reasonable treatment options for patients with AmpC-E in- against specific carbapenemases. Phenotypic tests such as the fections if the conditions described in the second to last para- modified carbapenem inactivation method differentiate carba- graph of Question 1.3 are met. penemase and non-carbapenemase-producing CRE but gener- ally do not provide information on the specific carbapenemase present . This information is increasingly important SECTION 3: CARBAPENEM-RESISTANT given the evolving epidemiology of carbapenemases. Clinical ENTEROBACTERALES microbiology laboratories are strongly encouraged to imple- CRE are defined as members of the Enterobacterales order ment either nucleic acid or antigen testing to identify the pres- meropenem, imipenem, doripenem) or producing a carbape- isolates. Treatment suggestions for CRE infections listed below nemase enzyme . Resistance
