Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


ment either nucleic acid or antigen testing to identify the pres- meropenem, imipenem, doripenem) or producing a carbape- isolates. Treatment suggestions for CRE infections listed below nemase enzyme . Resistance to at least 1 carbapenem oth- assume that in vitro activity of preferred and alternative antibi- er than imipenem is required for bacteria intrinsically less otics has been demonstrated. susceptible to imipenem (eg, Proteus spp., Morganella spp., Providencia spp.) . Question 3.1: What Are Preferred Antibiotics for the Treatment of CRE comprise a heterogenous group of pathogens encom- Uncomplicated Cystitis Caused by CRE? passing multiple mechanisms of resistance, broadly divided Suggested approach: Nitrofurantoin, TMP-SMX, ciprofloxa- into those that are not carbapenemase-producing and those cin, or levofloxacin are preferred treatment options for uncom- that are carbapenemase-producing. CRE that are not plicated cystitis caused by CRE, although the likelihood of carbapenemase-producing may be the result of amplification susceptibility to any of these agents is low. An aminoglycoside of non-carbapenemase β-lactamase genes (eg, ESBL genes) (as a single dose), oral fosfomycin (for E. coli only), colistin, with concurrent outer membrane porin disruption . ceftazidime-avibactam, meropenem-vaborbactam, imipenem- Carbapenemase-producing isolates account for 35%–83% of cilastatin-relebactam, or cefiderocol, are alternative treatment CRE cases in the United States, with higher percentages ob- options for uncomplicated cystitis caused by CRE. served when restricting the definition of CRE to require resis- tance to meropenem or imipenem [216–218]. Rationale The most common carbapenemases in the United States are Clinical trial data evaluating the efficacy of most preferred K. pneumoniae carbapenemases (KPCs), which are not limited agents for uncomplicated CRE cystitis are not available. to K. pneumoniae isolates. Other carbapenemases include New However, as nitrofurantoin, TMP-SMX, ciprofloxacin, or levo- Delhi metallo-β-lactamases (NDMs), Verona integron-encoded floxacin all achieve high concentrations in urine, they are ex- metallo-β-lactamases (VIMs), imipenem-hydrolyzing metallo- pected to be effective for uncomplicated CRE cystitis, if the β-lactamases (IMPs), and oxacillinases (eg, OXA-48-like) isolate is susceptible [5, 19–23]. [218–220]. NDM, VIM, and IMP carbapenemases are collective- A single dose of an aminoglycoside is an alternative option ly referred to as metallo-β-lactamases (MBLs) . for uncomplicated CRE cystitis, for reasons described in tween 2017 and 2019 and found that approximately 35% of CRE lates are susceptible to plazomicin compared to other amino- clinical or surveillance isolates in the United States carry 1 of the glycosides . Oral fosfomycin is an alternative treatment main 5 carbapenemase genes . Of these carbapenemase- option
