Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


amino- clinical or surveillance isolates in the United States carry 1 of the glycosides . Oral fosfomycin is an alternative treatment main 5 carbapenemase genes . Of these carbapenemase- option for uncomplicated cystitis caused by E. coli, including producing isolates, the specific prevalence by carbapenemase if carbapenem resistant, as discussed in Question 1.1 . gene family was as follows: blaKPC (86%), blaNDM (9%), Colistin (the active form of the commercially available par- blaVIM (<1%), blaIMP (1%), or blaOXA- 48-like (4%) . enteral inactive prodrug colistimethate sodium) is an alterna- A more recent cohort of 261 consecutive clinical CRE isolates tive agent for uncomplicated CRE cystitis. Colistin converts (defined as resistance to meropenem or imipenem) from 2019 to its active form in the urinary tract . Clinicians should AMR Treatment Guidance • CID • 15 Downloaded from by guest on May remain cognizant of the associated risk of nephrotoxicity. meropenem-vaborbactam, and imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam Polymyxin B should not be used as treatment for uncomplicat- are preferred treatment options. ed CRE cystitis, due to its predominantly nonrenal clearance and lower rates of success when compared to aminoglycosides Rationale . Ceftazidime-avibactam, meropenem-vaborbactam, For infections caused by Enterobacterales isolates that are not imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam, and cefiderocol are alterna- carbapenemase producing that exhibit susceptibility to mero- tive options for uncomplicated CRE cystitis [131, 226–230]. penem and imipenem (ie, MICs ≤1 µg/mL) but are not suscep- tible to ertapenem (ie, MICs ≥1 µg/mL), extended-infusion Question 3.2: What Are Preferred Antibiotics for the Treatment of meropenem (or imipenem-cilastatin) are suggested (Table 1). Pyelonephritis or cUTI Caused by CRE? An evaluation of CRE isolates submitted to the CDC indicated Suggested approach: TMP-SMX, ciprofloxacin, or levofloxacin that less than 3% of the 1249 isolates resistant to ertapenem are preferred treatment options for pyelonephritis or but susceptible to meropenem and imipenem contained a car- cUTI caused by CRE, if susceptibility is demonstrated. bapenemase gene . Standard-infusion meropenem or Ceftazidime-avibactam, meropenem-vaborbactam, imipenem- imipenem-cilastatin may be reasonable for uncomplicated cys- cilastatin-relebactam, and cefiderocol are also preferred treat- titis (Table 1). ment options for pyelonephritis or cUTIs. Aminoglycosides For isolates that are not carbapenemase producing that are are alternative options for the treatment of pyelonephritis or susceptible to meropenem but not susceptible to imipenem cUTI caused by CRE. (and vice versa), in the absence of data to inform the optimal treatment approach, the panel suggests basing the treatment Rationale decision on the severity of illness of
