Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


by CRE. (and vice versa), in the absence of data to inform the optimal treatment approach, the panel suggests basing the treatment Rationale decision on the severity of illness of the patient and site of in- Although the minority of CRE are expected to retain suscepti- fection. For example, in this scenario, meropenem may be a bility to TMP-SMX, ciprofloxacin, or levofloxacin, they are reasonable treatment for a UTI but not for a complex intra- preferred agents to treat CRE pyelonephritis or cUTI if abdominal infection. The panel suggests against the use of susceptibility is demonstrated [40–42]. Ceftazidime-avibactam, meropenem-vaborbactam or imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam meropenem-vaborbactam, imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam, and to treat ertapenem-resistant, meropenem-susceptible and cefiderocol are preferred treatment options for pyelonephritis imipenem-susceptible infections since these agents are unlikely and cUTIs caused by CRE based on clinical trials showing non- to offer any substantial benefit beyond that of extended- inferiority of these agents to common comparator agents for infusion meropenem or imipenem-cilastatin alone. UTIs [131, 226–230]. Isolates included in these trials were over- It was previously considered standard practice to administer whelmingly carbapenem susceptible. extended-infusion meropenem in combination with a second Aminoglycosides are suggested as alternative agents for the agent, frequently polymyxins or aminoglycosides, for the treat- treatment of CRE pyelonephritis or cUTI , as ment of infections caused by CRE isolates with meropenem described in Question 1.2. MICs as high as 8–16 µg/mL . PK/PD data suggested that Fosfomycin is not suggested for the treatment of pyelone- extended-infusion meropenem may lead to sufficient drug con- phritis or cUTI given its limited renal parenchymal concentra- centrations for the treatment of infections caused by organisms tions. More data are needed to evaluate the role of oral with carbapenem MICs in this range [234–236]. However, subse- fosfomycin for patients with pyelonephritis or cUTI, particu- quent observational and trial data indicate increased mortality larly when administered as a multidose regimen and after sev- and excess nephrotoxicity associated with polymyxin or eral days of preferred therapy as further described in Question aminoglycoside-based regimens relative to newer β-lactam- β-lactamase inhibitor agents for the treatment of CRE infections patients had CRE infections . [237–251]. Therefore, the panel advises against the use of extended-infusion carbapenems with or without the addition of Question 3.3: What Are the Preferred Antibiotics for the Treatment for a second agent for the treatment of CRE infections when suscept- Infections Caused by CRE Outside of the Urinary Tract that
