Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


What Are the Preferred Antibiotics for the Treatment for a second agent for the treatment of CRE infections when suscept- Infections Caused by CRE Outside of the Urinary Tract that are Not Carbapenemase Producing? ibility to meropenem or imipenem has not been demonstrated. It Suggested approach: For infections caused by Enterobacterales is plausible that the addition of vaborbactam or relebactam may isolates that are NOT carbapenemase producing that exhibit sus- decrease MICs of meropenem or imipenem even in isolates ceptibility to meropenem and imipenem (ie, MICs ≤1 µg/mL) without a carbapenemase because of other β-lactamases (eg, but are not susceptible to ertapenem (ie, MICs ≥1 µg/mL), the ESBLs) that may be overproduced . use of extended-infusion meropenem (or imipenem-cilastatin) Tigecycline or eravacycline are alternative options for the is suggested. For infections caused by Enterobacterales isolates treatment of CRE infections not involving the bloodstream or that are NOT carbapenemase producing and that do not exhibit urinary tract (Question 3.8). Their activity is independent of susceptibility to any carbapenem, ceftazidime-avibactam, the presence or type of carbapenemase. 16 • CID • Tamma et al Downloaded from by guest on May Question 3.4: What Are the Preferred Antibiotics for the Treatment of ceftazidime-avibactam (Question 3.7). At least 2 groups have Infections Outside of the Urinary Tract Caused by CRE if KPC Production is published their clinical experiences with the use of Present? ceftazidime-avibactam and meropenem-vaborbactam for CRE Suggested approach: Meropenem-vaborbactam, ceftazidime- infections, where KPCs were the predominant carbapenemase, avibactam, and imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam are preferred and similarly found that patients who received meropenem- treatment options for KPC-producing Enterobacterales infec- vaborbactam had a slightly higher likelihood of clinical cure tions. Cefiderocol is an alternative option. and survival and a lower risk of emergence of resistance than pa- tients treated with ceftazidime-avibactam [258–261]. Rationale Limited clinical data are available for imipenem- Preferred agents for KPC-producing infections include cilastatin-relebactam for the treatment of KPC-producing cilastatin-relebactam. All 3 agents appear to have greater than tions caused by gram-negative organisms not susceptible to 95% activity against KPC-producing Enterobacterales in the imipenem assigned patients to receive either imipenem- United States . Although all 3 are preferred agents for the cilastatin-relebactam vs imipenem-cilastatin and colistin treatment of KPC-producing infections, the panel slightly favors . Of patients with Enterobacterales infections, 40% (2 of meropenem-vaborbactam, followed by ceftazidime-avibactam, 5 patients) and 100% (2 of 2 patients) experienced a favorable for imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam) and the likelihood of
