Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


. Of patients with Enterobacterales infections, 40% (2 of meropenem-vaborbactam, followed by ceftazidime-avibactam, 5 patients) and 100% (2 of 2 patients) experienced a favorable for imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam) and the likelihood of emer- . It is difficult to draw meaningful conclusions from gence of resistance (ie, highest likelihood of emergence of resis- these data given the small numbers. However, in vitro activity tance for ceftazidime-avibactam) . These agents are of imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam against KPC-producing compared to regimens previously used to treat KPC-producing imipenem-cilastatin, and the stability of relebactam as a infections, which were often polymyxin or aminoglycoside- β-lactamase inhibitor suggest imipenem-cilastatin- these agents to each other (ie, meropenem-vaborbactam vs Enterobacterales if an organism tests susceptible. ceftazidime-avibactam) for the treatment of KPC-producing in- Cefiderocol is suggested as an alternative treatment option for fections are not available. CRE infections outside of the urine. Cefiderocol is a synthetic An observational study compared the clinical outcomes of conjugate composed of a cephalosporin moiety and a sidero- patients who received either meropenem-vaborbactam or phore, which binds to iron and facilitates bacterial cell entry us- ceftazidime-avibactam for at least 72 hours for the treatment ing active iron transporters . Once inside the periplasmic of CRE infections . Carbapenemase status was largely space, the cephalosporin moiety dissociates from iron and binds not reported. Clinical cure and 30-day mortality between the primarily to PBP3 to inhibit bacterial cell wall synthesis . 26 patients who received meropenem-vaborbactam and 105 Over 95% of KPC-producing Enterobacterales test susceptible patients who received ceftazidime-avibactam were 85% and to cefiderocol . Robust comparative effectiveness data spe- 61% (limited to patients with isolates exhibiting susceptibility cifically evaluating the role of cefiderocol for KPC-producing to the agent administered) and 12% and 19%, respectively. Enterobacterales infections are not available. Cefiderocol is Although these differences were not statistically significant, suggested as an alternative agent for treating KPC-producing they numerically favor meropenem-vaborbactam. Of patients pathogens due to limited clinical outcomes data and to reserve who experienced recurrent CRE infections, 0% (0 of 3) of pa- it for the treatment of infections caused by MBL-producing tients receiving meropenem-vaborbactam and 20% (3 of 15) Enterobacterales or glucose non-fermenting gram-negative of patients receiving ceftazidime-avibactam had subsequent organisms. CRE isolates resistant to initial therapy. This study had a num- Tigecycline or eravacycline are alternative options for the ber of important limitations: likely selection bias due to its ob- treatment of KPC-producing infections not involving the servational
