Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


had a num- Tigecycline or eravacycline are alternative options for the ber of important limitations: likely selection bias due to its ob- treatment of KPC-producing infections not involving the servational nature, relatively small numbers of patients, bloodstream or urinary tract (Question 3.9). Their activity is in- heterogenous sites of CRE infection, more than half of patients dependent of the presence or type of carbapenemases. had polymicrobial infections, and more than half of patients received additional antibiotic therapy. These limitations Question 3.5: What Are the Preferred Antibiotics for the Treatment of notwithstanding, this study suggests that both meropenem- Infections Outside of the Urinary Tract Caused by CRE if NDM or Other MBL vaborbactam and ceftazidime-avibactam are reasonable treat- Production is Present? ment options for KPC-producing infections, although the Suggested approach: Ceftazidime-avibactam in combination emergence of resistance may be more common with with aztreonam, or cefiderocol as monotherapy, are preferred AMR Treatment Guidance • CID • 17 Downloaded from by guest on May treatment options for NDM and other MBL-producing or intolerance), combination therapy with aztreonam and Enterobacterales infections. meropenem-vaborbactam or imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam can be considered, provided OXA-type carbapenemases are There is no United States Food and Drug Administration are limited . (FDA)-approved beta-lactam/beta-lactamase inhibitor with ac- A second preferred option for the treatment of NDM and oth- tivity against MBL-producing Enterobacterales, although sev- er MBL-producing Enterobacterales is cefiderocol. A cohort of eral promising compounds are in late phases of development 200 North American and European MBL-producing or have completed clinical trials. Preferred antibiotic options Enterobacterales from 2014 to 2019 indicated that approximate- for NDM-producing Enterobacterales (or other MBLs), include ly 92% of isolates were susceptible to cefiderocol . However, ceftazidime-avibactam plus aztreonam, or cefiderocol mono- resistance with NDM-producing Enterobacterales has been de- therapy. NDMs hydrolyze penicillins, cephalosporins, and car- scribed with and without prior cefiderocol exposure and thus hydrolyzed by NDMs, it can be hydrolyzed by other serine cluding patients with MBL-producing Enterobacterales infec- β-lactamases that are often co-produced by NDM-producing tions identified clinical cure in 80% (8 of 10) and 0% (0 of 4) isolates (eg, ESBLs, AmpCs, KPCs, or OXA-48-like enzymes). of patients receiving cefiderocol vs alternate therapy (primarily Avibactam generally remains effective at inhibiting the activity polymyxin-based therapy), respectively . Day 28 mortality of these other β-lactamases. Extrapolating estimates from occurred in 10% (1 of 10) and 75% (3 of 4) of patients, respec- able in the United States,
