Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


. Day 28 mortality of these other β-lactamases. Extrapolating estimates from occurred in 10% (1 of 10) and 75% (3 of 4) of patients, respec- able in the United States, the combination of ceftazidime- m/aztreonam vs cefiderocol are not available and both agents avibactam and aztreonam is active against approximately are considered preferred treatment options for MBL-producing 90% of MBL-producing Enterobacterales isolates [271–276]. Enterobacterales infections. The CLSI has endorsed the use of a broth disk elution method Tigecycline or eravacycline are alternative options for the to evaluate the susceptibility of MBL-producing treatment of NDM-producing infections not involving the Enterobacterales to the combination of ceftazidime-avibactam/ bloodstream or urinary tract (Question 3.9). Their activity is in- aztreonam . dependent of the presence or type of carbapenemases. An observational study of 102 adults with bloodstream infec- tions caused by MBL-producing Enterobacterales (82 were Question 3.6: What Are the Preferred Antibiotics for the Treatment of NDM-producing) from 2018–2019 compared the outcomes of Infections Outside of the Urinary Tract Caused by CRE if OXA-48-Like 52 patients receiving ceftazidime-avibactam in combination Production is Present? Suggested approach: Ceftazidime-avibactam is the preferred with aztreonam vs 50 patients receiving a combination of other treatment option for OXA-48-like-producing Enterobacterales agents, primarily polymyxin or tigecycline-based therapy . infections. Cefiderocol is an alternative treatment option. Thirty-day mortality was 19% for the ceftazidime-avibactam/az- treonam group and 44% for the alternate arm, with a signifi- cantly lower risk of mortality associated with the former in a Rationale propensity score-matched analysis. Another observational study If OXA-48-like enzymes are produced by an Enterobacterales NDM-producing, 58% bloodstream) from 2019–2022 included fiderocol is an alternative option . More than 95% of 215 patients receiving ceftazidime-avibactam/aztreonam, 33 pa- OXA-48-like-producing Enterobacterales isolates are susceptible tients receiving cefiderocol, and 26 patients receiving colistin- to both ceftazidime-avibactam and cefiderocol . containing regimens . Unadjusted 30-day mortality was Meropenem-vaborbactam and imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam 22%, 33%, and 50% for the ceftazidime-avibactam/aztreonam, have limited against OXA-48-like producing isolates because va- cefiderocol, and colistin-containing regimens, respectively borbactam and relebactam are unlikely to inhibit OXA-48-like . Ceftazidime-avibactam/aztreonam was associated with re- enzymes and are not suggested, even if susceptible in vitro duced 30-day mortality compared to colistin-based regimens. [262, 296–298]. Strategies for administering the combination of ceftazidime- Clinical trial data comparing ceftazidime-avibactam vs cefider- Supplementary Material [280–282]. Patients should be moni- ing the clinical outcomes of patients with OXA-48-like tored closely for elevations in liver enzymes, which was observed
