Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


data comparing ceftazidime-avibactam vs cefider- Supplementary Material [280–282]. Patients should be moni- ing the clinical outcomes of patients with OXA-48-like tored closely for elevations in liver enzymes, which was observed infections treated with either agent are available. An observational in approximately 40% of patients in a phase 1 study . In rare study including 171 patients with OXA-48-like-producing situations where cefiderocol or combination therapy with Enterobacterales infections treated with ceftazidime-avibactam ceftazidime-avibactam and aztreonam is not possible (eg, allergy (without a comparator arm) identified 30-day mortality in 22% 18 • CID • Tamma et al Downloaded from by guest on May of patients . In an observational study of 76 patients with the TonB-dependent iron transport system [288, 290, 337–340], OXA-48-like-producing Enterobacterales bloodstream infec- amino acid changes in AmpC β-lactamases , and tions, 12% and 26% of patients died within 30 days among the increased NDM expression . Cefiderocol resistance ceftazidime-avibactam and alternative (eg, polymyxins) arms, re- appears notably higher in ceftazidime-avibactam resistant spectively . In a subgroup analysis of 10 patients with Enterobacterales isolates compared to ceftazidime-avibactam OXA-48-positive Enterobacterales who received cefiderocol susceptible isolates (83% vs 7%) . Increasing reports of cefiderocol are expected to be effective against OXA-48-like- E. coli isolates [316, 343–345] leaving no available β-lactam producing infections, cefiderocol is suggested as an alternative treatment options. Such reports remain rare in the United it for the treatment of infections caused by MBL-producing Estimates of the emergence of resistance after clinical expo- Enterobacterales or glucose non-fermenting gram-negative sure to ceftazidime-avibactam and meropenem-vaborbactam organisms. are approximately 10%–20% and <5% Tigecycline or eravacycline are alternative options for the , respectively. The most data are available for treatment of OXA-48-like-producing infections not involving ceftazidime-avibactam, possibly in part because it was the first the bloodstream or urinary tract (Question 3.8). Their activity of the newer β-lactam agents active against CRE to receive FDA is independent of the presence or type of carbapenemases. approval. Limited data exist on the frequency of emergence of resistance of CRE to imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam and cefiderocol. Question 3.7: What Is the Likelihood of the Emergence of Resistance of CRE Isolates to the Newer β-Lactam Agents When Used to Treat CRE It is recommended to repeat AST for the newer β-lactams Infections? when a patient previously infected with a CRE presents with Suggested approach: The emergence of resistance is a concern a sepsis-like picture suggestive of a new or relapsed infection.
