Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


Infections? when a patient previously infected with a CRE presents with Suggested approach: The emergence of resistance is a concern a sepsis-like picture suggestive of a new or relapsed infection. with all β-lactam agents used to treat CRE infections. Available Furthermore, if a patient was recently treated with data suggest the frequency may be highest for ceftazidime- ceftazidime-avibactam and presents with a sepsis-like condi- avibactam. tion, it is suggested to consider a different novel β-lactam agent at least until culture and AST data are available, particularly if Rationale AST results from the previous infection indicate that there are As with any β-lactam agent, treatment with a newer β-lactam other active β-lactam agents. For example, if a patient with a for CRE infections (ie, ceftazidime-avibactam, meropenem- KPC-producing bloodstream infection received a treatment vaborbactam, imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam, or cefiderocol) course of ceftazidime-avibactam 1 month earlier and presents increases the likelihood that subsequent isolates causing infec- to medical care with symptoms suggestive of infection, consid- tion will no longer be effectively treated with these agents. The er administering an agent such as meropenem-vaborbactam most data on the emergence of resistance of CRE to novel until organism and AST results are available. agents focuses on KPC-producing isolates. The emergence of resistance of KPC-producing isolates to ceftazidime-avibactam Question 3.8: What Is the Role of Tetracycline Derivatives for the most commonly occurs because of mutations in the blaKPC Treatment of Infections Caused by CRE? gene translating to amino acid changes in the KPC carbapene- Suggested approach: Although β-lactam agents remain pre- mase and increased hydrolysis of ceftazidime. These changes ferred treatment options for CRE infections, tigecycline and may result in a restoration of susceptibility to carbapenems, eravacycline are alternative options when β-lactam agents are but the clinical significance of this finding is unknown [300– either not active or unable to be tolerated. Tetracycline deriva- 320]. Of note, amino acid substitutions in active sites of OXA tives are not suggested for the treatment of CRE urinary tract carbapenemases also appear to contribute to OXA-48-like pro- infections or bloodstream infections. ducers exhibiting ceftazidime-avibactam resistance . Changes in outer membrane permeability and efflux systems Rationale are the primary drivers of the emergence of resistance of Tetracycline derivatives function independent of the KPC-producing isolates to meropenem-vaborbactam [260, presence or type of carbapenemase. More specifically, both 309, 322–328] and imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam [329– carbapenemase-producing (eg, KPC, NDM, OXA-48-like car- 331]. Increases in blaKPC copy numbers
