Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


KPC-producing isolates to meropenem-vaborbactam [260, presence or type of carbapenemase. More specifically, both 309, 322–328] and imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam [329– carbapenemase-producing (eg, KPC, NDM, OXA-48-like car- 331]. Increases in blaKPC copy numbers have been associated bapenemases) and non-carbapenemase-producing CRE may with resistance to all of these agents [332–334]. test susceptible to these agents [348–350]. The tetracycline- Diverse mechanisms of resistance of Enterobacterales to cefi- derivative agents achieve rapid tissue distribution following derocol have been described including mutations in administration, resulting in limited urine and serum AMR Treatment Guidance • CID • 19 Downloaded from by guest on May concentrations . Tetracycline derivatives are not suggest- Rationale servational study have been associated with increased mortality and excess nephrotoxicity associated with polymyxin-based compared to alternative agents for the treatment of CRE blood- regimens relative to comparator agents [237–245, 251]. sidered as alternative options for intra-abdominal infections, PD data, and accuracy of polymyxin susceptibility testing led skin and soft tissue infections, osteomyelitis, and respiratory the CLSI to eliminate a susceptible category for colistin and infections when optimal dosing is used (Table 1). Nausea and polymyxin B . The panel suggests that these agents be emesis are reported in as many as 20%–40% of patients receiv- avoided for the treatment of CRE infections, with the exception ing tetracycline derivatives [353–355]. Of note, CLSI break- of colistin as an alternative agent against CRE cystitis. points are not available for tigecycline or eravacycline against Polymyxin B should not be used as treatment for CRE cystitis, Enterobacterales, but FDA breakpoints are available due to its predominantly nonrenal clearance . (Table 2). A hollow fiber model and clinical outcomes data suggest that tigecycline MICs of ≥0.5 for CRE iso- Question 3.10: What Is the Role of Combination Antibiotic Therapy for the Treatment of Infections Caused by CRE? lates are associated with poor outcomes. Suggested approach: Combination antibiotic therapy (ie, the Tigecycline has more published experience available for the use of a β-lactam agent in combination with an aminoglyco- treatment of CRE infections compared with eravacycline [358– side, fluoroquinolone, tetracycline, or polymyxin) is not sug- 361]. A meta-analysis of 15 clinical trials suggested that tigecy- gested for the treatment of infections caused by CRE. cline monotherapy is associated with higher mortality than al- ternative regimens used for the treatment of pneumonia, not Rationale exclusively limited to pneumonia caused by the Although empiric combination antibiotic therapy increases the Enterobacterales . Subsequent investigations
