Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


than al- ternative regimens used for the treatment of pneumonia, not Rationale exclusively limited to pneumonia caused by the Although empiric combination antibiotic therapy increases the Enterobacterales . Subsequent investigations have demon- likelihood that at least 1 active therapeutic agent for patients at strated that when high-dose tigecycline is prescribed (200 mg IV as a single dose followed 100 mg IV every 12 hours), mortal- cate that continued combination therapy—once the β-lactam ity differences between tigecycline and comparator agents may agent has demonstrated in vitro activity—offers any additional no longer be evident [363–365]. Thus, if tigecycline is pre- benefit . Rather, the continued use of a second agent in- scribed for the treatment of CRE infections, the panel recom- creases the likelihood of antibiotic-associated adverse events mends that high-dosages be administered (Table 1). The clinical relevance of differences in MIC distributions be- therapy prevents the emergence of resistance are lacking. tween tigecycline and eravacycline described in some studies is Randomized trial data are not available comparing the novel unclear because of differences in the PK/PD profile of these agents β-lactam agents as monotherapy and as a component of combi- [367–369]. Fewer than 5 patients with CRE infections were in- nation therapy (eg, ceftazidime-avibactam vs ceftazidime-avibac- cluded in clinical trials that investigated the efficacy of eravacy- tam and tobramycin). The limited observational data available have not identified improved outcomes with combination thera- its efficacy for the treatment of CRE infections are limited . py . An observational study compared the Minimal clinical data are also available investigating the ef- clinical outcomes of 165 patients receiving ceftazidime-avibactam fectiveness of minocycline against CRE infections , and 412 patients receiving ceftazidime-avibactam plus a second but data suggest a lower proportion of CRE isolates are suscep- agent for the treatment of KPC-producing infections . tible to minocycline compared to tigecycline or eravacycline Thirty-day mortality was essentially identical at approximately . The panel suggests using minocycline with caution for 25% in both study arms. the treatment of CRE infections. Data evaluating the activity of omadacycline, a tetracycline-derivative with both an IV known toxicities associated with aminoglycosides, fluoroquino- and oral formulation, against CRE suggest reduced potency lones, tetracyclines, and polymyxins, the panel does not suggest relative to other tetracycline derivatives and an unfavorable combination therapy for CRE infections when susceptibility to PK/PD profile (Question 1.3) [374–377]. Omadacycline is not a preferred β-lactam agent has been demonstrated. suggested
