Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


other tetracycline derivatives and an unfavorable combination therapy for CRE infections when susceptibility to PK/PD profile (Question 1.3) [374–377]. Omadacycline is not a preferred β-lactam agent has been demonstrated. suggested for the treatment of CRE infections. SECTION 4: PSEUDOMONAS AERUGINOSA WITH Question 3.9: What Is the Role of Polymyxins for the Treatment of DIFFICULT-TO-TREAT RESISTANCE Infections Caused by CRE? Suggested approach: Polymyxin B and colistin are not suggest- MDR P. aeruginosa is defined as P. aeruginosa not susceptible ed for the treatment of infections caused by CRE. Colistin is an to at least 1 antibiotic in at least 3 antibiotic classes for which alternative agent for uncomplicated CRE cystitis. P. aeruginosa susceptibility is generally expected: penicillins, 20 • CID • Tamma et al Downloaded from by guest on May cephalosporins, fluoroquinolones, aminoglycosides, and carba- any carbapenem agent but susceptible to traditional β-lactams, penems . In 2018, the concept of “difficult-to-treat” resis- the administration of a traditional non-carbapenem β-lactam tance was proposed . In this guidance document, DTR is as high-dose extended-infusion therapy is suggested. For critical- defined as P. aeruginosa exhibiting non-susceptibility to all of ly ill patients or those with poor source control with P. aeruginosa the following: piperacillin-tazobactam, ceftazidime, cefepime, isolates resistant to carbapenems but susceptible to traditional aztreonam, meropenem, imipenem-cilastatin, ciprofloxacin, β-lactams, use of newer β-lactam agents to which P. aeruginosa and levofloxacin. test susceptible (eg, ceftolozane-tazobactam, ceftazidime- MDR P. aeruginosa or DTR P. aeruginosa generally evolve as avibactam, imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam) is also a reasonable a result of an interplay of multiple resistance mechanisms, in- treatment approach. cluding decreased expression of outer membrane porins (eg, OprD), increased production of or amino acid substitutions Rationale within Pseudomonas-derived cephalosporinase (PDC) enzymes In general, when a P. aeruginosa isolate tests susceptible to tradi- (commonly referred to as pseudomonal AmpC enzymes), up- tional β-lactam agents (ie, piperacillin-tazobactam, ceftazidime, regulation of efflux pumps (eg, MexAB-OprM), mutations in cefepime, aztreonam), fluoroquinolones (ie, ciprofloxacin, levo- PBP targets, and the presence of expanded-spectrum floxacin), or carbapenems, the panel prefers an agent from the β-lactamases (eg, blaOXA-10) . Carbapenemase pro- former 2 groups be prescribed over carbapenem therapy in an at- duction is a relatively uncommon cause of carbapenem resis- tempt to preserve the activity of carbapenems for future, increas- tance in P. aeruginosa isolates in the United States ingly drug-resistant infections. but is identified in significant portions of carbapenem-resistant P. aeruginosa not susceptible to a carbapenem
