Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


for future, increas- tance in P. aeruginosa isolates in the United States ingly drug-resistant infections. but is identified in significant portions of carbapenem-resistant P. aeruginosa not susceptible to a carbapenem agent (eg, mer- P. aeruginosa in other regions of the world (eg, 69% in Latin openem or imipenem-cilastatin MICs ≥4 µg/mL) but susceptible America, 57% Asia), commonly due to the presence of to other traditional β-lactam agents constitute approximately blaKPC or blaVIM enzymes [385, 387–392]. These estimates 20% to 60% of carbapenem-resistant P. aeruginosa isolates suggest the prevalence of carbapenemase-producing P. aerugi- [394–400]. This phenotype is generally due to lack of or limited nosa will increase in the United States in coming years. There production of OprD, which normally facilitates entry of carbape- are other β-lactamase enzymes (eg, Guiana extended-spectrum nem agents through the outer membrane of P. aeruginosa into the beta-lactamase [GES], Vietnamese extended-spectrum beta- periplasmic space, but not the entry of other β-lactam agents lactamase [VEB], Pseudomonas extended resistance [PER] en- [396–398]. Comparative effectiveness studies to guide treatment zymes, KPCs, and NDMs] rarely identified in P. aeruginosa iso- decisions for infections caused by P. aeruginosa resistant to car- lates from patients in the United States that may confer elevated bapenems but susceptible to traditional non-carbapenem MICs to β-lactam agents, including some newer β-lactam β-lactams are not available. If the isolate is susceptible to a tradi- agents . tional non-carbapenem β-lactam (eg, cefepime), the panel’s pre- Given that carbapenemases are uncommon in P. aeruginosa ferred approach is to administer the non-carbapenem agent as isolates in the United States, carbapenemase testing for DTR high-dose extended-infusion therapy (eg, cefepime 2 g IV every P. aeruginosa is not as critical as carbapenemase testing for 8 hours, infused over at least 3 hours) (Table 1). form AST for MDR and DTR P. aeruginosa isolates against imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam). This approach is considered newer β-lactam agents (ie, ceftolozane-tazobactam, ceftazi- an alternative option to preserve the effectiveness of newer dime-avibactam, imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam, and cefider- β-lactams for future, increasingly AMR infections. However, ocol). It is important to understand local DTR P. aeruginosa for critically ill patients or those with poor source control, ASTs to guide empiric antibiotic decisions when AST results use of newer β-lactams for P. aeruginosa infections resistant are pending. Treatment suggestions for DTR P. aeruginosa in- to carbapenems but susceptible to traditional non-carbapenem fections assume in vitro activity of preferred and alternative an- β-lactams is a
