Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


resistant are pending. Treatment suggestions for DTR P. aeruginosa in- to carbapenems but susceptible to traditional non-carbapenem fections assume in vitro activity of preferred and alternative an- β-lactams is a reasonable consideration. Regardless of the anti- tibiotics has been demonstrated. biotic agent administered, patients infected with P. aeruginosa should be closely monitored to ensure clinical improvement as P. aeruginosa exhibits an impressive capacity to iteratively Question 4.1: What Are Preferred Antibiotics for the Treatment of Infections Caused by MDR P. aeruginosa? express additional resistance mechanisms while exposed to an- Suggested approach: When P. aeruginosa isolates test susceptible tibiotic therapy. As an example, an analysis of 767 episodes of to both traditional non-carbapenem β-lactam agents (ie, P. aeruginosa bacteremia identified the emergence of resistance piperacillin-tazobactam, ceftazidime, cefepime, aztreonam) and to traditional β-lactam agents within 30 days with the following carbapenems, the former are preferred over carbapenem therapy. likelihood: piperacillin-tazobactam (8%), ceftazidime (12%), For infections caused by P. aeruginosa isolates not susceptible to meropenem (14%), and imipenem (27%) . Clinicians are AMR Treatment Guidance • CID • 21 Downloaded from by guest on May advised to request repeat AST of subsequent clinical MDR The panel does not suggest testing meropenem-vaborbactam P. aeruginosa isolates obtained from the same patient to mon- activity against DTR P. aeruginosa isolates. Vaborbactam itor for the development of resistance. only marginally restores meropenem’s activity against DTR P. aeruginosa . There are no CLSI or FDA breakpoints Question 4.2: Are There Differences in Percent Activity Against DTR for meropenem-vaborbactam against P. aeruginosa. Some P. aeruginosa Across Available β-Lactam Agents? P. aeruginosa isolates may appear susceptible to meropenem- Suggested approach: Differences in DTR P. aeruginosa isolates vaborbactam but not meropenem, if applying the CLSI susceptibility percentages to newer β-lactams exist, in part due meropenem-vaborbactam Enterobacterales susceptible break- to regional differences in enzymatic mechanisms of resistance. point of ≤4 µg/mL to P. aeruginosa isolates. This is likely an arti- fact of meropenem-vaborbactam being standardly administered Rationale as 2 grams IV every 8 hours, infused over 3 hours. Meropenem Ceftolozane-tazobactam, ceftazidime-avibactam, imipenem- breakpoints (ie, ≤ 2 µg/mL) are based on a dosage regimen of cilastatin-relebactam, and cefiderocol are β-lactam antibiotics 1 gram IV administered every 8 hours, as a 30-minute infusion which may be active against DTR P. aeruginosa clinical isolates. . If meropenem is infused as 2 grams IV every 8 hours Summarizing United States surveillance data, ceftolozane- over 3 hours
