Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


susceptibility to ceftazidime-avibactam compared with other comparator agents for the treatment of UTIs [131, 228–230, 416]. newer β-lactam-β-lactamase inhibitors in areas where GES en- Data are insufficient to favor 1 of these agents over others for the The heavier side chain of ceftolozane compared to not include patients infected by pathogens with DTR phenotypes. ceftazidime confers enhanced steric hindrance to limit The suggested approach for the treatment of uncomplicated cys- PDC-mediated hydrolysis . Ceftolozane does not titis caused by DTR P. aeruginosa isolates confirmed to produce rely on an inhibitor to restore susceptibility to an otherwise in- MBL enzymes (eg, blaVIM) is reviewed in Question 4.6. active β-lactam agent (ie, ceftolozane has independent activity A single dose of tobramycin or amikacin is an alternative op- against DTR P. aeruginosa and does not need to rely on its tion for uncomplicated cystitis caused by DTR P. aeruginosa. β-lactamase inhibitor to maintain this activity). By definition, A single IV dose of tobramycin or amikacin are likely effective neither ceftazidime nor imipenem are active against DTR P. for uncomplicated cystitis as aminoglycosides are nearly exclu- aeruginosa. Avibactam and relebactam expand activity of these sively eliminated by the renal route in their active form, 22 • CID • Tamma et al Downloaded from by guest on May As of 2023, there are no longer breakpoints for gentamicin for Question 4.5: What Are Preferred Antibiotics for the Treatment of P. aeruginosa (Table 2). Tobramycin breakpoints are Infections Outside of the Urinary Tract Caused by DTR P. aeruginosa? Suggested approach: Ceftolozane-tazobactam, ceftazidime- available for P. aeruginosa, regardless of source (susceptible avibactam, and imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam are preferred ≤1 µg/mL); however, amikacin breakpoints against P. aeruginosa options for the treatment of infections outside of the urinary are only available for infections originating from urinary sources tract caused by DTR P. aeruginosa. Cefiderocol is an alternative (susceptible ≤16 µg/mL) . Plazomicin has neither CLSI nor treatment option for infections outside of the urinary tract FDA breakpoints against P. aeruginosa. Surveillance studies in- caused by DTR P. aeruginosa. dicate that plazomicin is unlikely to provide any incremental benefit against DTR P. aeruginosa if resistance to all other ami- noglycosides is demonstrated . Rationale Colistin, but not polymyxin B, is an alternate consideration Ceftolozane-tazobactam, ceftazidime-avibactam, and imipenem- for DTR P. aeruginosa cystitis as it converts to its active form cilastatin-relebactam are preferred options for the treatment of in the urinary tract .
