Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


consideration Ceftolozane-tazobactam, ceftazidime-avibactam, and imipenem- for DTR P. aeruginosa cystitis as it converts to its active form cilastatin-relebactam are preferred options for the treatment of in the urinary tract . Clinicians should remain cognizant DTR P. aeruginosa infections outside of the urinary tract, based of the associated risk of nephrotoxicity. on in vitro activity [138, 139, 141, 264, 266, 329, 419–457], ob- likelihood of clinical failure. This is in part due to the presence als receiving newer β-lactam agents were not infected with DTR P. aeruginosa isolates . other (eg, ceftolozane-tazobactam vs ceftazidime-avibactam) are lacking. Rather, available studies focus on comparing newer β-lactam agents to older agents (eg, ceftolozane-tazobactam vs Question 4.4: What Are Preferred Antibiotics for the Treatment of polymyxins), and generally focus on MDR P. aeruginosa and Pyelonephritis or cUTI Caused by DTR P. aeruginosa? not DTR P. aeruginosa. The suggested approach for the treat- Suggested approach: Ceftolozane-tazobactam, ceftazidime- ment of infections outside of the urinary tract caused by DTR avibactam, imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam, and cefiderocol are P. aeruginosa isolates confirmed to produce MBL enzymes preferred treatment options for pyelonephritis or cUTI caused (eg, blaVIM) is reviewed in Question 4.6. by DTR P. aeruginosa. Once-daily tobramycin or amikacin are An observational study including 200 patients with alternative agents for the treatment of DTR P. aeruginosa pyelo- MDR P. aeruginosa infections compared the outcomes of pa- nephritis or cUTI. tients receiving ceftolozane-tazobactam vs polymyxin- or aminoglycoside-based therapy . Favorable clinical out- Rationale comes were observed in 81% of patients receiving ceftolozane- Ceftolozane-tazobactam, ceftazidime-avibactam, imipenem- tazobactam vs 61% of patients receiving polymyxin- or cilastatin-relebactam, and cefiderocol are preferred treatment aminoglycoside-based therapy; this difference achieved statisti- on clinical trials showing non-inferiority of these agents to differences in clinical responses for 95 patients with MDR common comparator agents [131, 228–230, 416]. Data are in- P. aeruginosa infections receiving ceftazidime-avibactam vs sufficient to favor 1 of these agents over the others for the treat- carbapenem-based comparators with a favorable clinical re- ment of pyelonephritis or cUTI. Available trials generally do sponse observed in 57% (32 of 56 patients) vs 54% (21 of 39) not include patients infected by P. aeruginosa with DTR pheno- of patients in the 2 treatment arms, respectively . Only types. The suggested approach for the treatment of pyelone- 66% of isolates were susceptible to ceftazidime-avibactam phritis and cUTI caused by DTR P. aeruginosa isolates making interpretation of the results challenging .
