Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


suggested approach for the treatment of pyelone- 66% of isolates were susceptible to ceftazidime-avibactam phritis and cUTI caused by DTR P. aeruginosa isolates making interpretation of the results challenging . An ob- confirmed to produce MBL enzymes (eg, blaVIM) is reviewed servational study compared 100 patients receiving ceftolozane- in Question 4.6. Once-daily tobramycin or amikacin are alter- tazobactam and 100 patients receiving ceftazidime-avibactam native agents for the treatment of DTR P. aeruginosa pyelone- with MDR P. aeruginosa and mortality was approximately phritis or cUTI , although there is a duration-dependent 40% in both groups . However, this study had several lim- risk of nephrotoxicity . They may be helpful for com- itations (eg, AST not available for all included isolates, 40% pleting treatment courses (eg, transitioning from another agent received combination therapy, 50% polymicrobial infections, for terminal doses) given their prolonged duration of activity <50% bacteremia or pneumonia, suboptimal ceftolozane- in the renal cortex and the convenience of once daily dosing tazobactam dosing). aminoglycoside breakpoints that were implemented in 2023 non-susceptible P. aeruginosa identified a favorable clinical are reviewed in Question 4.3. response in 81% (13 of 16) of patients receiving imipenem- AMR Treatment Guidance • CID • 23 Downloaded from by guest on May cilastatin-relebactam compared to 63% (5 of 8) receiving P. aeruginosa are likely to impede aztreonam’s ability to reach imipenem-cilastatin in combination with colistin . its PBP3 target. Extrapolating data from aztreonam-avibactam, Although not achieving statistical significance, potentially due it is anticipated that ceftazidime-avibactam and aztreonam to the small sample size, the numerical differences suggest im- have activity against <10% of MBL-producing P. aeruginosa proved outcomes with use of imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam . over colistin-based regimens. A clinical trial compared the outcomes of patients with infec- Question 4.7: What Is the Likelihood of the Emergence of Resistance of tions due to carbapenem-resistant organisms treated with DTR P. aeruginosa Isolates to the Newer β-Lactam Agents When Used to cefiderocol vs alternative therapy, which largely consisted of Treat DTR P. aeruginosa Infections? Suggested approach: The emergence of resistance is a concern polymyxin-based therapy . The trial included 22 unique patients with 29 carbapenem-resistant P. aeruginosa infections with all β-lactams used to treat DTR P. aeruginosa infections. Available data suggest the frequency may be the highest for . Mortality at the end of therapy was 18% in both the ce- ceftolozane-tazobactam and ceftazidime-avibactam, although fiderocol and alternative therapy arms for patients
