Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


frequency may be the highest for . Mortality at the end of therapy was 18% in both the ce- ceftolozane-tazobactam and ceftazidime-avibactam, although fiderocol and alternative therapy arms for patients infected with P. aeruginosa. This trial suggests that cefiderocol performs fewer data are available investigating this issue for imipenem- cilstatin-relebactam and cefiderocol. as well as polymyxin-based regimens, but may not improve outcomes, as has been observed with some of the newer β-lactam-β-lactamase inhibitors . Observational Rationale data suggesting cefiderocol may be reasonable for the treatment As with most antibiotic agents, treatment of DTR P. aeruginosa of DTR P. aeruginosa infections are limited by small sample siz- with any of the newer β-lactam agents (ie, ceftolozane- es and lack of non-cefiderocol treatment arms . The tazobactam, ceftazidime-avibactam, imipenem-cilastatin- panel suggests cefiderocol as an alternative option when inac- relebactam, or cefiderocol) increases the likelihood that tivity, intolerance, or unavailability preclude the use of the new- subsequent infections will no longer be effectively treated with er β-lactam-β-lactamase inhibitors. these agents. The emergence of resistance to ceftolozane- tazobactam most commonly occurs because of amino acid substi- Question 4.6: What Are Preferred Antibiotics for the Treatment of DTR tutions, insertions, or deletions in PDCs [479–490]. These alter- P. aeruginosa that Produce Metallo-β-Lactamase Enzymes? ations occur most commonly in or adjacent to a particular region Suggested approach: For patients infected with DTR P. aerugi- of the PDC known as the omega loop. Similarly, acquired nosa isolates that are MBL-producing, the preferred treatment resistance of P. aeruginosa to ceftazidime-avibactam is most fre- is cefiderocol. quently the result of alterations in PDCs [479, 481, 482, 484, 487, 489–492]. Rationale Mechanisms contributing to P. aeruginosa resistance to P. aeruginosa producing MBLs remain uncommon in the imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam are generally related to loss United States . Such isolates are more common in of OprD and overexpression of efflux pumps (eg, other regions of the world [266, 385, 392, 473–475]. DTR MexAB-OprM and/or MexEF-OprN) . A num- P. aeruginosa isolates exhibiting resistance to all available ber of diverse mechanisms of P. aeruginosa resistance to cefi- β-lactam-β-lactamase inhibitors (ie, ceftolozane-tazobactam, derocol have been described including mutations ceftazidime-avibactam, and imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam) in the TonB-dependent iron transport system [337–339, 496], should raise suspicion for possible MBL production. MBL- amino acid changes in PDCs, as well as modifications in the producing P. aeruginosa isolates generally remain susceptible PBP3 target [496–498]. to cefiderocol . Based on available data,
