Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


production. MBL- amino acid changes in PDCs, as well as modifications in the producing P. aeruginosa isolates generally remain susceptible PBP3 target [496–498]. to cefiderocol . Based on available data, the emergence of resistance of P. aer- Clinical data on the use of cefiderocol as a treatment for uginosa to newer β-lactams appears most evident for MBL-producing P. aeruginosa are limited. Seven patients ceftolozane-tazobactam and ceftazidime-avibactam. This may with MBL-producing P. aeruginosa infections were included be at least in part because these agents have been prescribed in 2 cefiderocol clinical trials . Although limited in vitro more frequently in clinical practice than imipenem-cilastatin- data and isolated case reports suggest potential relebactam and cefiderocol . Cross-resistance between clinical success with the combination of ceftazidime-avibactam ceftolozane-tazobactam and ceftazidime-avibactam is high and aztreonam for MBL-producing P. aeruginosa infections, because of structural similarities. In a cohort of 28 patients this combination appears unlikely to present a meaningful with DTR P. aeruginosa infections treated with ceftolozane- incremental benefit over aztreonam alone for MBL-producing tazobactam and who had a subsequent DTR P. aeruginosa iso- P. aeruginosa infections . Although avibactam may late after the start of therapy, the subsequent isolate was no lon- help reduce the effectiveness of PDC enzymes, the multiple ger susceptible to ceftolozane-tazobactam 50% of the time after other non-enzymatic mechanisms generally present in DTR a median duration of 15 days of therapy . Over 80% of 24 • CID • Tamma et al Downloaded from by guest on May had subsequent isolates exhibiting resistance to ceftazidime- continued combination therapy—once the β-lactam agent has avibactam after ceftolozane-tazobactam exposure, and in the demonstrated in vitro activity—offers any additional benefit absence of ceftazidime-avibactam exposure. Another cohort over monotherapy with the β-lactam antibiotic . Rather, study including 14 patients with index and subsequent the continued use of a second agent increases the likelihood of treatment-emergence resistance in 79% of paired isolates data indicating that combination therapy prevents the emer- . Both of these single-center experiences likely overesti- gence of resistance are lacking. mate the likelihood of emergence of resistance to ceftolozane- Clinical trials comparing survival with ceftolozane- tazobactam given that patients who did not have recurrent tazobactam, ceftazidime-avibactam, imipenem-cilastatin- P. aeruginosa infections (hence, not included in the cohort) relebactam, or cefiderocol as monotherapy and as a component may have been less likely to develop ceftolozane-tazobactam of combination therapy are not available (eg, ceftazidime- resistant P. aeruginosa
