Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


the cohort) relebactam, or cefiderocol as monotherapy and as a component may have been less likely to develop ceftolozane-tazobactam of combination therapy are not available (eg, ceftazidime- resistant P. aeruginosa isolates. Nevertheless, estimates of emer- avibactam vs ceftazidime-avibactam and tobramycin). gence of resistance to ceftolozane-tazobactam and ceftazidime- Observational studies have not identified a survival advantage avibactam remain concerning. with combination therapy . Based on toxicities Limited data on the frequency of emergence of resistance to associated with aminoglycosides and polymyxins and clinical imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam exist. However, 1 report identi- outcomes data not demonstrating a benefit with the use of com- fied the emergence of non-susceptibility to this agent in 26% bination therapy for P. aeruginosa infections , the panel (5 of 19) of patients receiving imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam does not suggest that combination therapy be routinely admin- for the treatment of P. aeruginosa infections . Of note, across istered for DTR P. aeruginosa infections when susceptibility to tions treated with imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam developed If no β-lactam agent demonstrates activity against DTR treatment-emergent resistance . P. aeruginosa, tobramycin (if susceptibility is demonstrated) Similarly, estimates of the frequency of the emergence of re- can be considered in combination with either ceftolozane- sistance of P. aeruginosa to cefiderocol are incomplete but in a tazobactam, ceftazidime-avibactam, imipenem-cilastatin- fiderocol developed resistance to this agent . Another β-lactam agent for which the MIC is closest to its susceptibility study indicated that cross-resistance to cefiderocol occurred breakpoint. For example, if ceftolozane-tazobactam and in 3 of 14 (21%) isolates that developed treatment-emergent re- ceftazidime-avibactam MICs against a DTR P. aeruginosa sistance to ceftolozane-tazobactam . isolate are both >128/4 µg/mL (highly resistant) and the The panel suggests always repeating antibiotic susceptibility imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam MIC is 4/4 µg/mL (intermedi- testing for the 4 newer β-lactams when a patient previously in- ate category), imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam in combination fected with a DTR P. aeruginosa presents with a sepsis-like pic- with tobramycin is favored. Data are lacking demonstrating a ture suggestive of a new or relapsed infection. Furthermore, if a benefit to this approach and it should be considered as a last patient was recently treated with ceftolozane-tazobactam or resort. This approach is suggested as it may increase the likeli- ceftazidime-avibactam and presents to medical care with symp- hood that at least 1 active agent is being included in the treat- toms of recurrent infection, the panel suggests considering use ment regimen. of imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam or cefiderocol, particularly If tobramycin
