Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


that at least 1 active agent is being included in the treat- toms of recurrent infection, the panel suggests considering use ment regimen. of imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam or cefiderocol, particularly If tobramycin does not test susceptible, polymyxin B can be if 1 of these agents tested susceptible previously, at least until considered in combination with a newer β-lactam. Polymyxin culture and AST data are available. B is preferred over colistin for infections outside the urinary tract because it is not administered as a prodrug and Question 4.8: What Is the Role of Combination Antibiotic Therapy for the therefore can achieve more reliable plasma concentrations Treatment of Infections Caused by DTR P. aeruginosa? than colistin and it has a potentially reduced risk of nephrotox- Suggested approach: Combination antibiotic therapy is not sug- icity, although limitations across studies preclude accurate gested for infections caused by DTR P. aeruginosa if susceptibility determination of the differential risk of nephrotoxicity to ceftolozane-tazobactam, ceftazidime-avibactam, imipenem- [502–507]. cilastatin-relebactam, or cefiderocol has been confirmed. Question 4.9: What Is the Role of Nebulized Antibiotics for the Treatment of Rationale Respiratory Infections Caused by DTR P. aeruginosa? Although empiric combination antibiotic therapy (eg, the addi- Suggested approach: The panel does not suggest the use of tion of tobramycin to a β-lactam agent) to broaden the likeli- nebulized antibiotics for the treatment of respiratory infections hood of at least 1 active agent for patients at risk for DTR caused by DTR P. aeruginosa. AMR Treatment Guidance • CID • 25 Downloaded from by guest on May Rationale In this guidance document, for simplicity, we will use the term There have been conflicting findings for the clinical effective- “CRAB” as we recognize that most clinical microbiology labora- ness of nebulized antibiotics for the treatment of gram-negative tories may not be able to accurately separate carbapenem- pneumonia in observational studies [508–535]. At least 3 resistant A. baumannii from other species within the baumannii clinical trials investigated the outcomes of patients with gram- and calcoaceticus complex . negative ventilator-associated pneumonia comparing nebu- The management of CRAB infections is difficult for several lized antibiotics vs placebo. All 3 trials allowed for the use of reasons. First, CRAB is most commonly recovered from respi- systemic antibiotics. In brief, 1 trial compared the outcomes ratory specimens or wounds. It is not always clear if a CRAB of 100 adults with pneumonia (34% caused by P. aeruginosa) isolate recovered in
