Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


1 trial compared the outcomes ratory specimens or wounds. It is not always clear if a CRAB of 100 adults with pneumonia (34% caused by P. aeruginosa) isolate recovered in a respiratory or wound culture represents treated with nebulized colistin vs placebo ; a second trial a colonizing organism in medically complex patients who are compared the outcomes of 142 adults with pneumonia (22% ill due to underlying host factors (eg, patients requiring me- caused by P. aeruginosa) treated with nebulized amikacin/ chanical ventilation, patients with extensive burns), or a true fosfomycin vs placebo ; and the third trial compared the pathogen, leading to uncertainty about the need for antibiotic outcomes of 508 adults with pneumonia (32% caused by therapy. For the same reason, it is challenging to determine if P. aeruginosa) treated with nebulized amikacin vs placebo poor clinical outcomes with CRAB infections are attributable . None of the 3 clinical trials demonstrated improved clin- to suboptimal antibiotic therapy or to underlying host factors. ical outcomes or a survival benefit with nebulized antibiotics Second, once A. baumannii exhibits carbapenem resistance, compared with placebo for the treatment of ventilator- it generally has acquired resistance to most other antibiotics ex- associated pneumonia, including in a subgroup analyses of pected to be active against wild-type A. baumannii leaving few patients with drug-resistant pathogens [536–538]. A meta- remaining therapeutic options. The production of OXA carba- analysis of 13 trials including 1733 adults with ventilator- penemases (eg, OXA-23, OXA-24/40) mediates resistance to associated pneumonia indicated that the addition of nebulized β-lactams including carbapenems and sulbactam . antibiotics was associated with at least partial resolution of clin- CRAB isolates often produce additional serine β-lactamases ical symptoms of infection compared to the control group; (eg, Acinetobacter baumannii-derived cephalosporinases however, there was significant heterogeneity among the patho- [ADCs]), further limiting the utility of common β-lactam gens involved and the definition of clinical response across agents. Sulbactam resistance is driven primarily by the presence studies . No survival benefit, reduction in intensive care of β-lactamases but also via mutations targeting PBPs (ie, unit length of stay, or reduction in ventilator days was observed PBP1a/1b, and PBP3) [552–554]. Aminoglycoside modifying in patients receiving nebulized antibiotics . enzymes or 16S rRNA methyltransferases generally preclude Reasons for the lack of clinical benefit with nebulized antibiot- aminoglycosides as treatment options for CRAB [555–557]. ics in available trials are unclear. In a PK/PD
