Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


rRNA methyltransferases generally preclude Reasons for the lack of clinical benefit with nebulized antibiot- aminoglycosides as treatment options for CRAB [555–557]. ics in available trials are unclear. In a PK/PD modeling study, Mutations in the chromosomally encoded quinolone resistance aerosolized delivery of the prodrug of colistin to critically ill pa- determining regions generally mediate resistance to fluoro- tients achieved high active drug levels in epithelial lining fluid quinolones . out lung tissue to exert significant bactericidal activity , likely supporting a prioritization of specific agents with CRAB activ- due in part to the use of parenteral formulations not specifically ity or the additive benefit of commonly used combination reg- designed for inhalation in suboptimal delivery devices such as imens for CRAB infections remain incomplete. This guidance jet nebulizers . Professional societies have expressed document focuses on the treatment of moderate-severe conflicting views regarding the role of nebulized antibiotics as ad- CRAB infections. junctive therapy to IV antibiotics [544–546]. The panel suggests against the use of nebulized antibiotics as adjunctive therapy for Question 5.1: What Is the General Approach for the Treatment of Infections DTR P. aeruginosa pneumonia due to the lack of benefit observed Caused by CRAB? ed lungs, and concerns for respiratory complications such as includes a sulbactam-containing agent is suggested for the bronchoconstriction with use of aerosolized antibiotics . treatment of CRAB infections. The preferred regimen is sulbactam-durlobactam in combination with a carbapenem (ie, imipenem-cilastatin or meropenem). An alternative regi- SECTION 5: CARBAPENEM-RESISTANT men is high-dose ampicillin-sulbactam (total daily dose of 9 ACINETOBACTER BAUMANNII grams of the sulbactam component) in combination with at Carbapenem-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii (CRAB) infec- least 1 other agent (ie, polymyxin B, minocycline > tigecycline, tions pose significant challenges in healthcare settings . or cefiderocol), if sulbactam-durlobactam is not available. 26 • CID • Tamma et al Downloaded from by guest on May Rationale Rationale The general approach for the treatment of CRAB infections is Sulbactam-durlobactam became FDA-approved in May 2023. to administer combination therapy with at least 2 agents for Durlobactam is a β-lactamase inhibitor with potent inhibition the treatment of CRAB infections, at least until an appropriate of class A (eg, TEM-1), class C (eg, ADC), and class D beta- the effectiveness of any single antibiotic agent. It is also gener- B MBLs (eg, NDM), which are rarely produced by CRAB iso- ally suggested that at least 1 agent in the combination is
