Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


any single antibiotic agent. It is also gener- B MBLs (eg, NDM), which are rarely produced by CRAB iso- ally suggested that at least 1 agent in the combination is lates in the United States but are increasingly problematic in sulbactam-based. The preferred sulbactam-based agent is other regions of the world (eg, at least 5% of CRAB isolates sulbactam-durlobactam in combination with either imipenem- in Latin America from 2017–2019 contained a blaNDM and cilastatin or meropenem (Question 5.2). contemporary estimates are likely higher) . An alternative approach, when sulbactam-durlobactam is Durlobactam reduces the likelihood of sulbactam hydrolysis not available, is the administration of high-dose ampicillin- by binding to and inhibiting class A, C, and D β-lactamases en- sulbactam (total daily dose of 9 grams of the sulbactam compo- abling sulbactam to successfully reach its PBP targets . nent) as a component of combination therapy (Question 5.3). Sulbactam-durlobactam is administered as 1 gram of sulbactam Sulbactam’s unique activity against A. baumannii isolates has and 1 gram of durlobactam (2 grams total) every 6 hours as been observed through in vitro studies [558–560], animal mod- a 3-hour infusion (Table 1). This dosing strategy achieves Question 5.2 and Question 5.3. When high-dose sulbactam is A. baumannii isolates with sulbactam-durlobactam MICs of administered, combination therapy is suggested even though ≤4/4 µg/mL, the FDA and CLSI breakpoint . only 1 of 7 clinical trials found improved clinical outcomes Sulbactam-durlobactam was investigated in a clinical trial of with the use of combination antibiotic therapy for CRAB infec- patients with pneumonia or bloodstream infections caused by tions [562, 568–573] (Question 5.4). A. baumannii . Patients were randomized to sulbactam- combination therapy was the only 1 that included high-dose cilastatin, dosed as 1 gram of imipenem every 6 hours. ampicillin-sulbactam in the combination therapy arm . There were 125 patients with CRAB infections for whom the Additional agents that can be considered in combination primary outcome of 28-day mortality was evaluated. Mortality with high-dose ampicillin-sulbactam include polymyxin B occurred in 19% (12/63) of patients in the sulbactam- (Question 5.5), minocycline (Question 5.6), tigecycline durlobactam group and 32% (20/62) in the colistin group, (Question 5.6), or cefiderocol (Question 5.7). Fosfomycin and meeting the pre-specified non-inferiority criteria. Secondary rifampin are not suggested as components of combination outcomes also favored sulbactam-durlobactam, including clin- therapy (Question 5.3, Question 5.9). ical cure (62% vs 40%), microbiologic response (68% vs 42%) at with the
