Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


not suggested as components of combination outcomes also favored sulbactam-durlobactam, including clin- therapy (Question 5.3, Question 5.9). ical cure (62% vs 40%), microbiologic response (68% vs 42%) at with the use of high-dose extended-infusion carbapenem 38%). It is important to note that the comparator arm in this therapy in combination with colistin for the treatment of trial (ie, colistin plus imipenem-cilastatin) is not a preferred CRAB infections , meropenem or imipenem- treatment regimen for CRAB infections. cilastatin are not suggested as routine components of CRAB The additive clinical benefit of imipenem-cilastatin to therapy, with the notable exception of when they are admin- sulbactam-durlobactam is unclear. Some studies suggest that istered in combination with sulbactam-durlobactam the combination of sulbactam-durlobactam and imipenem- (Question 5.8). Nebulized antibiotics are not suggested as ad- cilastatin lowers the MIC of sulbactam-durlobactam by 1- to junctive therapy for CRAB pneumonia, due to the lack of ben- 2-fold [578–580]. The potential benefit may be related to the unequal distribution in infected lungs, and the potential for sulbactam preferentially binds to PBP1 and PBP3 while imipe- respiratory complications such as bronchoconstriction [541– nem preferentially binds to PBP2) . Both sulbactam 543, 547] (Question 5.10). and imipenem have an increased likelihood of successfully reaching their PBP targets under the protection of durlobac- tam. Moreover, its plausible that imipenem serves as a substrate for OXA-carbapenemase-mediated hydrolysis, potentially Question 5.2: What Is the Role of Sulbactam-Durlobactam for the Treatment of Infections Caused by CRAB? enabling more sulbactam to reach its PBP targets. In a hollow Suggested approach: Sulbactam-durlobactam is a preferred fiber infection model, the addition of a carbapenem to agent for the treatment of CRAB infections and is suggested sulbactam-durlobactam led to enhanced reductions in bacte- to be administered in combination with imipenem-cilastatin rial growth . Clinical data investigating the benefit or meropenem. of sulbactam-durlobactam for the treatment of CRAB AMR Treatment Guidance • CID • 27 Downloaded from by guest on May infections in the absence of imipenem-cilastatin are not avail- under the protection of durlobactam. Ampicillin-sulbactam able. Based on the available in vitro data, it is suggested that does not have the added protection of a durlobactam-like beta- imipenem-cilastatin be administered as adjunctive therapy to lactamase inhibitor. sulbactam-durlobactam. Meropenem is likely a reasonable Fewer than 50% of CRAB isolates test susceptible to substitute for imipenem-cilastatin given their similar PBP ampicillin-sulbactam . Insufficient data exist to deter- targets . For
