Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


is likely a reasonable Fewer than 50% of CRAB isolates test susceptible to substitute for imipenem-cilastatin given their similar PBP ampicillin-sulbactam . Insufficient data exist to deter- targets . For patients requiring prolonged durations mine if standard-dose ampicillin-sulbactam and high-dose of therapy (eg, CRAB osteomyelitis) it may be reasonable to ampicillin-sulbactam have equivalent efficacy for CRAB infec- discontinue carbapenem therapy after clinical improvement tions caused by isolates susceptible to ampicillin-sulbactam. has occurred. The panel favors high-dose ampicillin-sulbactam, given its the- Our understanding of mechanisms of resistance to oretical benefit of saturating sulbactam’s PBP targets, particu- sulbactam-durlobactam will evolve as this agent is increasingly larly as significant amounts of the agent will likely be used in clinical practice. Available data suggest high-level resis- hydrolyzed by β-lactamases prior to reaching their PBP targets tance of sulbactam-durlobactam is generally a result of MBL and because of potential inaccuracies with commonly used ap- enzymes or PBP3 mutants . In settings of resistance proaches for ampicillin-sulbactam AST testing for CRAB (ie, to sulbactam-durlobactam (ie, MICs ≥16/4 µg/mL), the panel “susceptible” may not actually be “susceptible” using AST suggests considering optimally-dosed non-sulbactam based methods other than reference broth microdilution) . myxin B) as sulbactam-based therapy is unlikely to be of sub- trial data for various treatment regimens against CRAB infec- stantial therapeutic value. tions . A meta-analysis published in 2021 included 18 studies and 1835 patients and found that ampicillin- Question 5.3: What Is the Role of Ampicillin-Sulbactam for the Treatment of sulbactam (total daily dose of at least 6 grams of the sulbactam Infections Caused by CRAB? component) in combination with a second agent was the most Suggested approach: High-dose ampicillin-sulbactam, as a effective regimen to reduce mortality in critically ill patients in- component of combination therapy, is suggested as an alternate fected with CRAB . An earlier meta-analysis published in agent for CRAB. This approach is suggested only when the un- 2017 included 23 observational studies or clinical trials and availability of sulbactam-durlobactam precludes its use. 2118 patients with CRAB infections . This analysis identi- fied sulbactam as having the greatest impact on reducing mor- Rationale tality when evaluating sulbactam-based, polymyxin-based, or As described in Question 5.2, sulbactam is a competitive, irre- tetracycline-based regimens. PBP1a/1b and PBP3 of A. baumannii isolates . CRAB infections have included sulbactam in 1 of the treatment Sulbactam’s unique activity against A. baumannii isolates has arms . When comparing
