Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


PBP1a/1b and PBP3 of A. baumannii isolates . CRAB infections have included sulbactam in 1 of the treatment Sulbactam’s unique activity against A. baumannii isolates has arms . When comparing the mortality in the colistin- been demonstrated through PK/PD studies [558, 559, 585– based arm vs the sulbactam-based arm in these trials the results [562–566]. The panel suggests high-dose ampicillin-sulbactam 50% , 38% vs 17% , 32% vs 19% . Although dif- (total daily dose of 9 grams of the sulbactam component) as a ferences in mortality reached statistical significance in only 1 of component of combination therapy for CRAB infections these trials , all demonstrate a numerical reduction in (Table 1). mortality in the sulbactam-based arm, suggesting a potential A review of available PK/PD data indicate that sulbactam total benefit with the inclusion of sulbactam in the treatment regi- gardless of a 40% or 60% fT > MIC threshold) for A. baumannii data, the panel considers high-dose ampicillin-sulbactam, in isolates with sulbactam MICs of up 16–32 µg/mL (ie, sulbactam- combination with a second agent, as an alternative option for resistant isolates) . Ampicillin-sulbactam uses a 2:1 the treatment of CRAB infections, when sulbactam- formulation; for example, 3 grams of ampicillin-sulbactam is durlobactam is not available. comprised of 2 grams of ampicillin and 1 gram of sulbactam. Ampicillin-sulbactam total daily dosages of 27 grams (equiva- Question 5.4: What Is the Role of Combination Antibiotic Therapy for the lent to 9 grams of sulbactam) as extended or continuous infu- Treatment of Infections Caused by CRAB? sions are suggested (eg, 9 grams [3 grams of sulbactam IV every Suggested approach: Combination therapy with at least 2 8 hours infused over 4 hours) 558, 559, 562, 563, 586, 593]. agents, whenever possible, is suggested for the treatment of of sulbactam which can then successfully reach its PBP targets gle antibiotic agent. 28 • CID • Tamma et al Downloaded from by guest on May Rationale 3-hour infusion) . No difference in 28-day mortality Combination therapy is suggested for the treatment of CRAB (46% vs 52%) were observed between the groups . The infections, even if a single agent demonstrates activity. In situ- second trial included 329 patients with drug-resistant A. bau- ations when prolonged durations of therapy may be needed (eg, mannii bloodstream infections or pneumonia randomized to osteomyelitis), step-down therapy to a single active agent can colistin alone compared to colistin in
