Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


prolonged durations of therapy may be needed (eg, mannii bloodstream infections or pneumonia randomized to osteomyelitis), step-down therapy to a single active agent can colistin alone compared to colistin in combination with mer- be considered. In vitro and animal studies have had conflicting openem (1 gram IV every 8 hours as a 30-minute infusion) findings but several investigations indicate increased bacterial . The 28-day mortality was 46% vs 42% in the colistin killing with various combination regimens [559, 603–611]. monotherapy and combination therapy arms, respectively There are many observational studies evaluating the role of . For both trials, the addition of meropenem to colistin combination therapy vs monotherapy for the treatment of did not improve survival in patients with severe CRAB CRAB infections with differing results [612–632]. The hetero- infections. geneity in patient populations, infectious sources, inclusion of The seventh trial included 39 CRAB pneumonia patients, small numbers, and imbalances between treatment arms makes tin and sulbactam . Patients were randomized to colistin interpretation of a number of these studies challenging. monotherapy vs colistin in combination with high-dose sulbac- At least 7 trials have investigated the role of combination tam (total daily dose of 8 grams of the sulbactam component) a potential benefit with combination therapy [562, 568–573]. and 70% of patients in the colistin vs colistin-sulbactam Of note, because of inconsistent and unclear colistin dosing re- arms, respectively, achieving statistical significance. 28-day ported in studies, the panel elected not to report colistin dosing mortality occurred in 63% and 50% of patients, respectively. used in individual trials. None of the seven trials that included a Investigators were unblinded to treatment assignment. polymyxin arm investigated the role of polymyxin B, which has Moreover, patients were allowed to transition to other antibiot- trials included sulbactam in a treatment arm. Below is a sum- failure or mortality between the groups. sample sizes. cally significant benefit with combination therapy for CRAB in- A trial including 210 ICU patients with invasive CRAB infec- fections, the panel favors the use of combination therapy for tions compared the outcomes of patients receiving colistin CRAB infections for the following reasons: (1) the vast majority alone vs colistin in combination with rifampicin (known in of clinical trials included combinations not generally adminis- 30-day mortality with 43% mortality in both study arms applicability of trial results limited; (2) there is a lack of robust . A second trial including 43
