Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


not generally adminis- 30-day mortality with 43% mortality in both study arms applicability of trial results limited; (2) there is a lack of robust . A second trial including 43 patients with CRAB pneumo- clinical data supporting the treatment of CRAB infections with nia also compared colistin monotherapy and colistin in combi- any single agent demonstrating in vitro activity against CRAB; nation with rifampin . In hospital mortality was 73% in the use of 2 agents may increase the likelihood that at least 1 ac- the colistin group and 62% in the colistin-rifampin group, tive agent is being administered; and (3) high bacterial burdens not reaching statistical significance. A third study randomized are expected with CRAB infections due to almost universal de- nine patients with colistin-resistant A. baumannii (carbapenem lays in initiating effective therapy as common empiric antibiot- susceptibility status not described) and found no difference in ic regimens are generally not active against CRAB. When 30-day mortality between the colistin and colistin plus rifampin considering the high mortality associated with CRAB infec- arms (20% vs 33%, respectively) . tions, the benefit of using 2 agents may outweigh the risks. A fourth trial including patients with a variety of CRAB in- Potential options for consideration as components of combina- fections randomized 94 patients to receive colistin alone or co- tion therapy in addition to high-dose ampicillin-sulbactam in- listin with fosfomycin . Mortality within 28 days was 57% clude: tetracycline derivatives (with the most experience vs 47% in the colistin monotherapy and colistin-fosfomycin available for minocycline), polymyxin B, or cefiderocol arms, respectively. IV fosfomycin is not currently available in (Questions 5.3 to 5.6).The decision to preferentially select 1 the United States, making the results of this trial of limited rel- agent over another should be based on patient and infection evance to this guidance document. specific factors (eg, polymyxin B may be less appealing for pa- Two large trials evaluated the role of colistin monotherapy tients with chronic kidney diseases [Question 5.5], minocycline vs colistin in combination with meropenem . In the may be less appealing for bloodstream infections [Question first study, 312 patients with CRAB bacteremia, pneumonia, 5.6]). As previous stated, when sulbactam-durlobactam is ad- or urinary tract infections were randomized to colistin alone ministered, it is suggested to be used in combination with a car- vs colistin plus meropenem (2 grams IV every 8 hours as a bapenem [Question
