Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


randomized to colistin alone ministered, it is suggested to be used in combination with a car- vs colistin plus meropenem (2 grams IV every 8 hours as a bapenem [Question 5.2]. AMR Treatment Guidance • CID • 29 Downloaded from by guest on May Question 5.5: What Is the Role of the Polymyxins for the Treatment of serum . Tetracycline derivatives are not suggested as mono- Infections Caused by CRAB? therapy for bloodstream infections. The frequency of the emer- Suggested approach: Polymyxin B can be considered in com- gence of resistance to these agents by CRAB isolates is not well bination with at least 1 other agent for the treatment of CRAB defined but occurs through drug efflux stemming from overex- infections. pression of various RND-type transporters . There has been considerable clinical experience with the use Rationale of minocycline since its introduction in the 1960s . It is The polymyxins, including both colistin and polymyxin B, have commercially available in both oral and IV formulations. reliable in vitro activity against CRAB isolates, with most of the Data from critically ill patients who received a single 200 mg published literature focusing on colistin. The panel preferen- dose of minocycline was used to develop a population PK mod- tially suggests polymyxin B when considering polymyxin-based el; a dose of 200 mg of IV minocycline administered every 12 regimens, based on its more favorable PK profile than colistin hours was predicted to result in a suboptimal PK/PD profile . Colistin is favored for CRAB UTIs, as it con- for organisms with MICs >1 µg/mL . This is important verts to its active form in the urinary tract. In comparison, there to recognize as the CLSI breakpoints for minocycline against is minimal excretion of polymyxin B in the urine. There is no A. baumannii is ≤4 µg/mL . Caution is advised with the CLSI susceptible category for the polymyxins against A. bau- use of minocycline for CRAB isolates with MICs of 2–4 µg/mL mannii; the benefit of polymyxins is likely diminished when where susceptibility might be reported but suboptimal antibiot- polymyxin MICs are >2 µg/mL . Due to certain chemical ic concentrations may be present at sites of infection. properties of the polymyxins (eg, poor diffusion through agar, International surveillance data suggest minocycline is active adherence to microtiter plates) obtaining accurate polymyxin against approximately 60%–80% of CRAB isolates, but this is MICs is
