Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


(eg, poor diffusion through agar, International surveillance data suggest minocycline is active adherence to microtiter plates) obtaining accurate polymyxin against approximately 60%–80% of CRAB isolates, but this is MICs is challenging . likely an overestimation given a susceptibility breakpoint of The panel advises against polymyxin monotherapy for the ≤4 µg/mL was applied . Minocycline has not been following reasons: First, concentrations of polymyxins in se- subjected to rigorous trials for the treatment of CRAB infec- rum achieved with conventional dosing strategies are highly tions, although case series describing its use are available variable and may be inadequate for effective bactericidal activ- [373, 648–651]. Drawing conclusions on the effectiveness of ity . Similarly, the activity of IV polymyxins in pulmonary minocycline from these observational reports is challenging epithelial lining fluid is suboptimal and generally does not re- as they have important limitations (eg, small sample sizes, se- sult in adequate bacterial killing in the lungs [636–638]. lection bias, inadequate distinctions between colonization Second, dosages required to treat systemic infections approach and infection, heterogeneous sites of infection). Despite the the threshold for nephrotoxicity, making the therapeutic win- limitations of available data, the panel considers minocycline dow extremely narrow (ie, ∼2 µg/mL may be required to a treatment option for CRAB infections (dosed at 200 mg twice achieve 1-log10 reduction in bacterial growth, but this is also daily either IV or orally) when used as a component of a com- the threshold associated with nephrotoxicity) . Finally, bination regimen (Table 1). in the largest clinical trials (over 300 patients in each trial) eval- Tigecycline is a tetracycline derivative only available as an IV uating the role of colistin monotherapy, mortality was relatively formulation. Neither CLSI nor FDA breakpoints are available high at 46% in both trials . for tigecycline against A. baumannii isolates; minocycline MICs cannot be used to predict tigecycline MICs as differences Question 5.6: What Is the Role of Tetracycline Derivatives for the in the likelihood of susceptibility across the tetracycline Treatment of Infections Caused by CRAB? derivatives exist . Several observational studies and a Suggested approach: High-dose minocycline or high-dose ti- meta-analysis of 15 trials suggest that tigecycline monotherapy gecycline can be considered in combination with at least 1 other is associated with higher mortality compared to alternative reg- agent for the treatment of CRAB infections. The panel prefers imens used for the treatment of pneumonia, not exclusively minocycline over
