Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


is associated with higher mortality compared to alternative reg- agent for the treatment of CRAB infections. The panel prefers imens used for the treatment of pneumonia, not exclusively minocycline over tigecycline because of the long-standing clin- limited to CRAB pneumonia . Subsequent ical experience with this agent and the availability of CLSI investigations have suggested that when high-dose tigecycline breakpoints. is prescribed (200 mg IV as a single dose followed 100 mg IV q12h), mortality differences between tigecycline and compara- Rationale tor agents are no longer evident [363–365]. Several tetracycline derivatives have in vitro activity against Similar to minocycline, efficacy of tigecycline may be limited CRAB including minocycline, tigecycline, and eravacycline when MICs are >1 µg/mL based on PK data derived from crit- . A general concern with tetracycline derivatives is ically ill patients . If tigecycline is prescribed for the treat- that they achieve rapid tissue distribution following adminis- ment of CRAB infections, the panel suggests that high doses are tration, resulting in limited concentrations in the urine and used (Table 1). As with minocycline, tigecycline is suggested to 30 • CID • Tamma et al Downloaded from by guest on May be prescribed in combination with at least 1 additional agent for data suggest higher cefiderocol PK/PD targets needed for CRAB infections. Both agents are associated with nausea in A. baumannii are higher than for other gram-negative organ- 20%–50% of patients, and this is likely more common with isms and bactericidal activity of cefiderocol in animal models higher dosages [353–355]. of A. baumannii infections has been variable [665–668]. Although eravacycline MICs are generally 2- to 8-fold lower A clinical trial including 54 patients with CRAB infections relevance of the differences in MIC distributions between these tients) vs 18% (3 of 17 patients) in the cefiderocol vs alternative agents is unclear due to differences in the PK profile of tigecycline therapy arms (largely composed of polymyxin–based regimens), and eravacycline. As with tigecycline, no CLSI breakpoints exist respectively . Poor outcomes with cefiderocol were observed for eravacycline. Small numbers of patients with CRAB infections in patients with pneumonia and bloodstream infections. A second were included in clinical trials investigating the efficacy of erava- trial that included a subgroup of 47 patients with CRAB pneumo- scribing its efficacy for the treatment of CRAB infections are of 24) of patients in the cefiderocol and meropenem arm, respec- available . In an observational
