Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


patients with CRAB pneumo- scribing its efficacy for the treatment of CRAB infections are of 24) of patients in the cefiderocol and meropenem arm, respec- available . In an observational study of 93 patients tively – suggesting outcomes were similar between cefiderocol and with CRAB pneumonia, eravacycline was associated with longer a relatively inactive agent . Because of the heterogeneity of durations of mechanical ventilation (11 vs 7 days) and higher regimens used in the alternative arms in the first trial and the rel- 30-day mortality (33% vs 15%) compared to alternative regimens atively small numbers of patients with CRAB when combining . All 4 patients with CRAB bloodstream infections receiving both trials, contextualizing the results is challenging. the use of eravacycline, the panel suggests limiting its use to situ- 124 patients with CRAB infections receiving cefiderocol vs ations when other agents are either not active, unable to be toler- colistin-based regimens, respectively . Recurrent CRAB in- ated or unavailable. fections, however, were more likely in the cefiderocol arm (17% Preclinical data evaluating the activity of omadacycline, vs 7%). Among the 8 patients in the cefiderocol group who expe- a tetracycline derivative with both an IV and oral formulation, rienced a recurrent CRAB infection, 50% had subsequent isolates suggest reduced efficacy against CRAB isolates relative to exhibiting resistance to cefiderocol. Additional observational data other tetracycline derivatives. A PK/PD profile suggests oma- suggest cefiderocol may be reasonable for the treatment of CRAB dacycline has very limited activity against CRAB isolates infections but these studies are generally limited by small sample case series . The panel does not suggest the use of oma- groups, and high percentages of concomitant coronavirus disease dacycline to treat CRAB infections. 2019 (COVID-19) infections [671–673]. Combining available data, the panel suggests that if cefider- Question 5.7: What Is the Role of Cefiderocol Therapy for the Treatment of ocol is prescribed for the treatment of CRAB infections, it Infections Caused by CRAB? should be used with caution and as a component of combina- Suggested approach: Cefiderocol should be limited to the treat- tion therapy, to increase the likelihood that at least 1 effective ment of CRAB infections refractory to other antibiotics or in cases agent is included as part of the treatment regimen. The panel where intolerance or resistance to other agents precludes their use. also suggests limiting consideration of cefiderocol for CRAB in- When cefiderocol is used
