Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


part of the treatment regimen. The panel where intolerance or resistance to other agents precludes their use. also suggests limiting consideration of cefiderocol for CRAB in- When cefiderocol is used to treat CRAB infections, the panel sug- fections after other regimens have been exhausted. gests prescribing it as part of a combination regimen. Question 5.8: What Is the Role of Extended-Infusion Meropenem or Rationale Imipenem-Cilastatin for the Treatment of Infections Caused by CRAB? Cefiderocol is a cephalosporin conjugated to a siderophore Suggested approach: Meropenem or imipenem-cilastatin are CRAB isolates. International surveillance studies indicate that exception of co-administration with sulbactam-durlobactam. approximately 95% of CRAB isolates are susceptible to cefider- ocol using the CLSI breakpoint of ≤4 µg/mL Rationale (Table 2). Determining CRAB susceptibility to cefiderocol, In vitro data suggest that triple-combination therapies consist- however, is challenging, in part due to variable iron concentra- ing of (1) meropenem, ampicillin-sulbactam, and minocycline tions in media. Moreover, MIC results are not always reproduc- or (2) meropenem, ampicillin-sulbactam, and polymyxin B ible across methods, heteroresistance may be observed, and may lead to microbiological efficacy against CRAB [558–560]. broth microdilution results can be challenging to interpret as Although at least 2 observational studies suggest favorable out- trailing endpoints, haziness, or a paradoxical effect may comes with the inclusion of carbapenems in 3-drug combina- obscure interpretation [662–664]. Furthermore, preclinical tions (ie, ampicillin-sulbactam, carbapenem, colistin), these AMR Treatment Guidance • CID • 31 Downloaded from by guest on May studies did not compare outcomes of 3-drug combinations vs Rationale 2-drug combinations of ampicillin-sulbactam and colistin There have been conflicting findings regarding the clinical ef- . As described in Question 5.4, 2 randomized trials fectiveness of nebulized antibiotics for the treatment of gram- evaluated the role of colistin monotherapy vs colistin plus mer- negative pneumonia in observational studies [508–535]. At openem and neither trial demonstrated a benefit with the com- least 3 randomized trials evaluated the outcomes of patients bination of colistin plus meropenem for the treatment of CRAB with gram-negative ventilator-associated pneumonia compar- infections . A secondary analysis of 1 of the trials ing nebulized antibiotics vs placebo. All 3 trials allowed for with the combination of colistin and meropenem even when clinician. In brief, 1 trial compared the outcomes of 100 adults in vitro synergy was present . with pneumonia (65% caused by A. baumannii) treated with Imipenem-cilastatin may retain activity against some nebulized colistin vs placebo
