Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


the outcomes of 100 adults in vitro synergy was present . with pneumonia (65% caused by A. baumannii) treated with Imipenem-cilastatin may retain activity against some nebulized colistin vs placebo ; a second trial compared meropenem-resistant isolates [676–678]; however, MICs of the outcomes of 142 adults with pneumonia (20% caused by both agents against CRAB isolates are almost always signifi- A. baumannii) treated with nebulized amikacin/fosfomycin cantly higher than 8 µg/mL . With highly elevated vs placebo ; and the third trial compared the outcomes MICs, it appears unlikely that either meropenem or imipenem- of 508 adults with pneumonia (29% caused by A. baumannii) cilastatin would offer any incremental benefit when used as a treated with nebulized amikacin vs placebo . None of of sulbactam-durlobactam (Question 5.2). or a survival benefit with the use of nebulized antibiotics com- pared with placebo for the treatment of ventilator-associated pneumonia, including in subgroup analyses of drug-resistant Question 5.9: What Is the Role of the Rifamycins for the Treatment of Infections Caused by CRAB? pathogens [536–538]. Suggested approach: Rifampin or other rifamycins are not A meta-analysis of 13 trials including 1733 adults with suggested for the treatment of CRAB infections. ventilator-associated pneumonia indicated that no survival benefit, reduction in intensive care unit lengths of stay, or re- Rationale duction in ventilator days was observed in patients receiving The rifamycin class of antibiotics includes agents such as rifampin, nebulized antibiotics . . Data indicate that rifabutin has potent activity against A. clear. In a PK/PD modeling study, aerosolized delivery of the baumannii in both in vitro and animal models, which is signifi- prodrug of colistin to critically ill patients achieved high active cantly greater than that exhibited by rifampin [680–682]. drug levels in the epithelial lining fluid of the lungs . posed due to the latter’s ability to disrupt bacterial membrane sufficient penetration and/or distribution throughout lung tis- permeability, which may facilitate intracellular penetration of sue to exert significant bactericidal activity , likely due in rifamycin and subsequent inhibition of bacterial protein syn- part to the use of parenteral formulations not specifically de- thesis . signed for inhalation in suboptimal delivery devices such as CRAB-infected patients receiving colistin alone vs colistin in conflicting views regarding the role of nebulized antibiotics combination with rifampin (Question 5.4) [571–573]. None as adjunctive therapy to IV antibiotics [544–546]. The panel of these trials demonstrated a survival benefit with the
