Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


the role of nebulized antibiotics combination with rifampin (Question 5.4) [571–573]. None as adjunctive therapy to IV antibiotics [544–546]. The panel of these trials demonstrated a survival benefit with the addition suggests against the use of nebulized antibiotics as adjunctive of rifampin. Admittedly, there are limitations to all these trials therapy for CRAB pneumonia, due to the lack of benefit rifabutin had been used in place of rifampin . In light of plications such as bronchoconstriction in patients receiving the known toxicities and drug interactions associated with aerosolized antibiotics . the rifamycins and the absence of a benefit observed in SECTION 6: STENOTROPHOMONAS MALTOPHILIA as components of CRAB therapy. Stenotrophomonas maltophilia is an aerobic, glucose non- fermenting, gram-negative bacillus that is ubiquitous in water Question 5.10: What Is the Role of Nebulized Antibiotics for the Treatment of Respiratory Infections Caused by CRAB? environments . The organism has a long history of chang- Suggested approach: Nebulized antibiotics are not suggested ing nomenclatures and a complicated phylogeny [686–688]. for the treatment of respiratory infections caused by CRAB. Although generally believed to be less pathogenic than many 32 • CID • Tamma et al Downloaded from by guest on May and virulence factors that enable colonization or infection in , limited PK/PD data used to inform breakpoints for vulnerable hosts, such as those with underlying lung disease, most agents, and insufficient data to identify correlations between lignancies . the treatment of moderate-severe S. maltophilia infections. S. maltophilia infections pose management challenges simi- lar to those of CRAB infections. First, although S. maltophilia has the potential to cause serious disease, it is often unclear Question 6.1: What Is a General Approach for the Treatment of Infections Caused by S. maltophilia? if S. maltophilia represents a colonizing organism or a true Suggested approach: Any of 2 approaches are preferred op- pathogen, particularly in patients with underlying pulmonary tions for the treatment of S. maltophilia infections: (1) the conditions such as cystic fibrosis or ventilator dependency use of 2 of the following agents: cefiderocol, minocycline, [690–694]. S. maltophilia is often recovered as a component TMP-SMX, or levofloxacin or (2) the combination of of a polymicrobial infection—further complicating decisions ceftazidime-avibactam and aztreonam. on the necessity of targeted S. maltophilia therapy . Importantly, S. maltophilia can be a true pathogen that causes considerable morbidity and mortality, particularly in patients Rationale with hematologic malignancies where it can cause hemorrhagic
