Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


S. maltophilia therapy . Importantly, S. maltophilia can be a true pathogen that causes considerable morbidity and mortality, particularly in patients Rationale with hematologic malignancies where it can cause hemorrhagic Given that the isolation of S. maltophilia in culture often rep- pneumonia or bacteremia [696–702]. resents colonization and not infection, it is prudent to careful- Second, treatment selection is hampered by antimicrobial ly distinguish colonization with S. maltophilia from infection resistance genes and gene mutations carried by S. maltophilia to avoid unnecessary antibiotic use. In situations of S. malto- isolates . An L1 metallo-β-lactamase and L2 serine philia infection, either of 2 approaches are suggested. One op- β-lactamase render most conventional β-lactams ineffective tion is combination therapy with at least 2 active agents (ie, against S. maltophilia. L1 hydrolyzes penicillins, cephalosporins, cefiderocol, minocycline, TMP-SMX, or levofloxacin)—listed spectrum cephalosporins and aztreonam . observed, primarily because of the limited supportive data S. maltophilia exhibits intrinsic resistance to aminoglyco- for any individual agent (Questions 6.2, 6.4 to 6.6). sides via chromosomal aminoglycoside acetyl transferase Alternatively, the combination of ceftazidime-avibactam and enzymes . Furthermore, S. maltophilia can accumulate aztreonam can be administered, with the acknowledgement multidrug efflux pumps that reduce the activity of TMP- that limited clinical data are available supporting this combi- SMX, tetracyclines, and fluoroquinolones, and chromosomal nation (Question 6.3). Smqnr genes that further reduce the effectiveness of fluoro- Several investigations suggest increased killing of S. malto- quinolones [705–708]. philia with combination agents presumed to have in vitro ac- Third, a “standard of care” antibiotic regimen for S. malto- tivity against S. maltophilia including cefiderocol, philia infections against which to compare the effectiveness minocycline, TMP-SMX, and fluoroquinolones, compared of various treatment regimens is not evident . Clinical tri- to monotherapy [713–716]. Clinical outcomes data compar- als comparing the effectiveness of commonly used agents for ing monotherapy and combination therapy are conflicting S. maltophilia are lacking. Data to prioritize among agents and limited to observational studies plagued with concerns with in vitro activity against S. maltophilia and to determine such as selection bias, small sample sizes, and significant het- the additive benefit of commonly used combination therapy erogeneity in patient, microbial, and treatment characteristics regimens remain incomplete. [709, 717–719]. A multicenter, observational study of 307 pa- Finally, S. maltophilia AST determination is problematic. The tients with S. maltophilia pneumonia found that combination CLSI has established breakpoints for 6 agents against S. malto- therapy
