Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


of 307 pa- Finally, S. maltophilia AST determination is problematic. The tients with S. maltophilia pneumonia found that combination CLSI has established breakpoints for 6 agents against S. malto- therapy (largely TMP/SMX with either moxifloxacin or levo- philia: cefiderocol, chloramphenicol, levofloxacin, minocycline, floxacin) was not associated with reduced overall 30-day mor- ticarcillin-clavulanate, and TMP-SMX. As of 2023, CLSI break- tality overall compared to monotherapy (largely TMP/SMX or points are no longer available for ceftazidime and it is no longer moxifloxacin or levofloxacin) but was associated with reduced considered an effective treatment option for S. maltophilia . mortality in immunocompromised patients and in severely ill Ticarcillin-clavulanate manufacturing has been discontinued patients . As described in Question 6.2, 6.4 to 6.6, there and chloramphenicol is rarely used in the United States due to sig- are either concerning PK/PD data or limited clinical data nificant toxicities , leaving 4 agents for which interpretable with cefiderocol, minocycline, TMP-SMX, and levofloxacin antibiotic MIC data can be provided to clinicians. Confidence in individually. The panel favors combination therapy for the challenged by concerns about the reproducibility of MICs using provement has occurred. AMR Treatment Guidance • CID • 33 Downloaded from by guest on May Question 6.2: What Is the Role of Cefiderocol for the Treatment of Rationale Infections Caused by S. maltophilia? The combination of ceftazidime-avibactam and aztreonam Suggested approach: Cefiderocol as a component of combina- (which mimics aztreonam-avibactam) can be used to overcome preferred agent for the treatment of S. maltophilia infections. S. maltophilia [688, 735–740]. The L1 metallo-β-lactamase hy- drolyzes ceftazidime but not aztreonam. The L2 serine Rationale β-lactamase hydrolyzes ceftazidime and aztreonam but is Surveillance studies indicate susceptibility of S. maltophilia iso- inactivated by avibactam. Therefore, the combination of lates to cefiderocol approaches 100%, even against isolates resis- ceftazidime-avibactam and aztreonam enables aztreonam to tant to other commonly prescribed agents [410, 412, 661, 715, bypass inactivation and successfully reach its target PBPs of 721, 722]. The CLSI has a susceptible only breakpoint for cefider- S. maltophilia. Surveillance data indicate aztreonam-avibactam ocol against S. maltophilia, because of a paucity of S. maltophilia is active against approximately 92% of S. maltophilia isolates though the emergence of resistance of S. maltophilia to cefiderocol with this regimen for the treatment of S. maltophilia infections has not been described in patient isolates, cefiderocol-resistant [737, 741–743], the combination of ceftazidime-avibactam and S. maltophilia mutants have been identified in
