Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


regimen for the treatment of S. maltophilia infections has not been described in patient isolates, cefiderocol-resistant [737, 741–743], the combination of ceftazidime-avibactam and S. maltophilia mutants have been identified in in vitro models— aztreonam is a preferred treatment option for S. maltophilia in- Neutropenic thigh and lung animal infection models dem- dime-avibactam and aztreonam are reviewed in Table 1 and onstrate potent activity of cefiderocol against S. maltophilia Supplementary Material [280–282]. Patients should be moni- and indicate that in vivo efficacy against S. maltophilia appears tored closely for elevations in liver enzymes, which was observed to correlate with in vitro efficacy, using simulated human dos- in approximately 40% of patients in a phase 1 study . The ing [668, 725–727]. A neutropenic rabbit S. maltophilia pneu- CLSI has endorsed the use of a broth disk elution method to eval- monia model using human simulated dosages of cefiderocol uate the susceptibility of S. maltophilia isolates to the combina- demonstrated that cefiderocol was able to eradicate S. malto- tion of ceftazidime-avibactam and aztreonam . philia in lung tissue, in contrast to TMP-SMX where residual bacteria were present . Moreover, 87% of cefiderocol Question 6.4: What Is the Role of Tetracycline Derivatives for the treated rabbits survived compared to 25% of TMP-SMX treated Treatment of Infections Caused by S. maltophilia? rabbits. No untreated rabbits survived. Suggested approach: High-dose minocycline, as a component carbapenem-resistant infections included five patients with S. maltophilia infections. S. maltophilia infections . All 5 patients were assigned to the cefiderocol arm, precluding comparisons between treat- Rationale ment regimens. Four out of 5 patients died. If limiting the anal- Surveillance studies report that minocycline has activity against ysis to the 3 patients with S. maltophilia infections without approximately 70%–90% of S. maltophilia isolates [716, 744– A. baumannii coinfection, 2 of 3 patients died. Additional clin- 746]. These data were generated using minocycline susceptibil- ical data evaluating the role of cefiderocol for the treatment of ity breakpoints of ≤4 µg/mL. In 2023, the CLSI lowered the S. maltophilia infections are limited to case reports but several minocycline breakpoints from ≤4 µg/mL to ≤1 µg/mL for indicate favorable outcomes after failing traditional regimens S. maltophilia (Table 2), and the proportion of S. malto- PK/PD data and animal models [668, 725–727] are en- Among the tetracycline derivatives, CLSI breakpoints are couraging for the use of cefiderocol in treating S. maltophilia only available for minocycline
