Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


PK/PD data and animal models [668, 725–727] are en- Among the tetracycline derivatives, CLSI breakpoints are couraging for the use of cefiderocol in treating S. maltophilia only available for minocycline . infections. Data are not available to guide the decision to use Minocycline dosages of 200 mg IV every 12 hours have a cefiderocol as a component of combination therapy or as >90% probability of achieving PK/PD targets associated with monotherapy. Given the limited clinical experiences with cefi- bacterial stasis in a neutropenic mouse thigh model for organ- derocol for the treatment of S. maltophilia infections, the panel isms with MICs of 1 µg/mL but only a 50% probability of suggests cefiderocol be considered as a component of combina- achieving targets associated with 1-log kill . tion therapy at least until clinical improvement is observed. Clinical outcomes data investigating the role of tetracycline derivatives for the treatment of S. maltophilia infections are challenging to interpret. Several observational studies have Question 6.3: What Is the Role of Ceftazidime-Avibactam and Aztreonam for the Treatment of Infections Caused by S. maltophilia? been conducted but are limited by small sample sizes, use of Suggested approach: Ceftazidime-avibactam and aztreonam is a standard-dose and not high-dose minocycline or tigecycline, preferred treatment combination for S. maltophilia infections. lack of a comparator arm, heterogeneity in sites of infection, 34 • CID • Tamma et al Downloaded from by guest on May or use of additional antibiotic agents [748–752]. Studies that In a neutropenic rabbit lung S. maltophilia model, 5 mg/kg included a comparator arm did not indicate any clear failure dose twice daily reduced the burden of S. maltophilia in lung signals with tetracycline derivatives compared to TMP-SMX tissue, but did not eradicate the bacteria. In contrast, cefidero- or fluoroquinolones. col achieved complete bacterial clearance . Moreover, only the panel considers high-dose minocycline as a treatment op- receiving cefiderocol. ponent of combination therapy. Because of the slightly more TMP-SMX for S. maltophilia infections are lacking. An obser- favorable in vitro data with minocycline, more favorable vational study of 1581 patients with S. maltophilia identified in PK/PD data, oral formulation, and potentially improved toler- respiratory or blood cultures and treated with TMP-SMX or ability of minocycline relative to tigecycline, the panel favors levofloxacin monotherapy was undertaken using an adminis- minocycline. trative database . This work suggested that TMP-SMX In vitro and in vivo data on the role of eravacycline
