Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


the panel favors levofloxacin monotherapy was undertaken using an adminis- minocycline. trative database . This work suggested that TMP-SMX In vitro and in vivo data on the role of eravacycline against therapy may be associated with increased mortality compared S. maltophilia are scarce. to levofloxacin in patients with S. maltophilia recovered from Omadacycline, a tetracycline derivative with oral and IV for- respiratory cultures and that TMP-SMX therapy was associated mulations, has limited in vitro activity against S. maltophilia with prolonged hospitalizations. However, there are significant relative to other tetracycline derivatives . The panel does limitations to this study making its findings challenging to in- not suggest the use of eravacycline or omadacycline for the terpret (eg, wide study interval [2005–2017] during which A general concern with tetracycline derivatives is that they distinguish colonization and infection, inability to adjust for achieve rapid tissue distribution following administration, re- source control, incomplete AST data, inclusion of polymicro- sulting in limited concentrations in the urine and serum . bial infections, residual confounding by indication). Given should be used with caution and as a component of combina- unclear. tion therapy for the treatment of bloodstream infections. Prior to the publication of this work, the largest study eval- Nausea and emesis are reported in as many as 20%–40% of uating TMP-SMX treatment was a case series of 91 patients patients receiving minocycline or tigecycline [353–355]. with S. maltophilia bloodstream infections, in whom mortality was 25% within 14 days . The small number of patients in Question 6.5: What Is the Role of Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for the the study who received an agent other than TMP-SMX preclud- Treatment of Infections Caused by S. maltophilia? ed a comparative effectiveness evaluation. Several relatively Suggested approach: TMP-SMX, as a component of combina- small observational studies comparing TMP-SMX and other tion therapy, is an option for the treatment of S. maltophilia agents (namely tetracycline derivatives or fluoroquinolones) infections. have been undertaken and generally demonstrated similar out- comes between treatment agents [748, 750, 760–765]. Rationale Given the toxicity of TMP-SMX (eg, hypersensitivity, hyper- Surveillance studies have consistently shown that TMP-SMX kalemia, myelosuppression, nephrotoxicity), no established S. maltophilia , although there is an increasing recog- dence supporting any particular dose, and evidence that TMP nition of S. maltophilia isolates resistant to TMP-SMX [715, dosing of >15 mg/kg/day may lead to an increased risk of ad- with use of TMP-SMX for S. maltophilia infections, several
