Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


nition of S. maltophilia isolates resistant to TMP-SMX [715, dosing of >15 mg/kg/day may lead to an increased risk of ad- with use of TMP-SMX for S. maltophilia infections, several dose range of 10–15 mg/kg (trimethoprim component) of PK/PD studies have emerged indicating that TMP-SMX is TMP/SMX is suggested for patients with S. maltophilia infec- not bactericidal against S. maltophilia, even those with low tions (Table 1). Doses between 10 and 15 mg/kg/day should TMP MICs, regardless of the TMP-SMX dosage [713, 715, provide bacteriostasis for the majority of susceptible isolates. 716, 757, 758]. At best, TMP-SMX may have the potential to TMP-SMX is a treatment option for S. maltophilia infections, achieve stasis against S. maltophilia. when used in combination with a second agent. This is in contrast to organisms like E. coli where at least a 1-log kill can be observed in the presence of TMP-SMX at sim- Question 6.6: What Is the Role of Fluoroquinolones for the Treatment of ilar exposures . Some in vitro studies suggest stasis—and Infections Caused by S. maltophilia? possibly even a 1-log kill-can be more reliably achieved when Suggested approach: Levofloxacin, as a component of combi- TMP-SMX is administered as a component of combination nation therapy, is an option for the treatment of S. maltophilia therapy . infections. AMR Treatment Guidance • CID • 35 Downloaded from by guest on May Rationale cultures and treated with TMP-SMX or levofloxacin was un- S. maltophilia isolates frequently harbor Smqnr resistance de- dertaken using an administrative database . Although terminants that interfere with fluoroquinolone binding to gyrase this work suggested that levofloxacin may be protective against and topoisomerase, leading to increased fluoroquinolone MICs mortality in patients with S. maltophilia recovered from respi- . Fluoroquinolone MICs may increase further as a result ratory cultures and marginally protective against mortality re- of overexpression of multidrug-resistant efflux pumps [753, 767– gardless of the culture site, there are limitations to this study 769]. Baseline susceptibility percentages of S. maltophilia to levo- making its findings challenging to interpret. floxacin vary from approximately 30% to 80% in surveillance Several observational studies comparing fluoroquinolones to studies . Several studies have shown that S. other agents (ie, TMP-SMX, tigecycline) did not identify in- maltophilia isolates that test susceptible to levofloxacin can devel- creased clinical failure signals in the fluoroquinolone arm op elevated levofloxacin MICs during therapy . . There are several limitations to these
