Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


isolates that test susceptible to levofloxacin can devel- creased clinical failure signals in the fluoroquinolone arm op elevated levofloxacin MICs during therapy . . There are several limitations to these studies in- CLSI breakpoints exist for levofloxacin against S. maltophilia, cluding selection bias, small sample sizes, heterogeneity in host but not for ciprofloxacin or moxifloxacin . In 2023, the and microbial data, and the use of additional active agents. CLSI added a comment to the levofloxacin breakpoint stating Due to suboptimal results with fluoroquinolone monother- “levofloxacin should not be used alone for antimicrobial therapy” apy in in vitro studies, known mechanisms of resistance of for S. maltophilia infections . S. maltophilia to fluoroquinolones, relatively low probability Time-kill curves evaluating ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, and of achieving systemic exposures that correlate with stasis or moxifloxacin monotherapy generally indicate that these agents 1-log kill in animal models, the emergence of resistance during are inadequate at sustained inhibition of S. maltophilia growth therapy, and inherent biases in observational data, the panel [745, 773–776] but suggest that levofloxacin and moxifloxacin suggests levofloxacin be used as a component of combination may have sufficient activity as components of combination therapy, when prescribed for the treatment of S. maltophilia therapy . PK/PD modeling data suggest that fluoro- infections. quinolone monotherapy may be insufficient to achieve appro- Because of the absence of breakpoints for ciprofloxacin and priate target attainment for S. maltophilia infections, even moxifloxacin, the panel suggests preferentially administering when administered at high dosages . Neutropenic mouse levofloxacin amongst the fluoroquinolones. Adverse events models suggest that even 750 mg of IV levofloxacin daily may related to fluoroquinolone use and the potential for the emer- not reliably achieve PK/PD targets associated with bacterial sta- gence of resistant S. maltophilia isolates during levofloxacin sis or 1-log killing against a substantial proportion S. malto- therapy should be considered when prescribing this agent philia isolates that have MIC values within the wild-type . distribution . Levofloxacin and moxifloxacin were both associated with improved survival (50%) compared to placebo Question 6.7: What Is the Role of Ceftazidime for the Treatment of (0%) in a mouse model of hemorrhagic S. maltophilia pneumo- Infections Caused by S. maltophilia? Suggested approach: Ceftazidime is not a suggested treatment nia . Taken together, these data suggest that fluoroquino- option for S. maltophilia infections due to the presence of lones may not provide sufficient benefit as monotherapy but β-lactamase genes
