Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: infections, treatment, patients, therapy, caused, aeruginosa, isolates, agents, crab, suggested, data, clinical, cefiderocol, question, combination


nia . Taken together, these data suggest that fluoroquino- option for S. maltophilia infections due to the presence of lones may not provide sufficient benefit as monotherapy but β-lactamase genes intrinsic to S. maltophilia that are expected may provide some additive value when administered as a com- to render ceftazidime inactive. As of 2024, CLSI breakpoints ponent of combination therapy. for S. maltophilia to ceftazidime are no longer available. Clinical data evaluating fluoroquinolones for the treatment of S. maltophilia clinical infections mostly focus on levofloxa- Rationale cin. A meta-analysis including 663 patients from 14 observa- The panel does not suggest prescribing ceftazidime for the tional studies compared mortality between fluoroquinolones treatment of S. maltophilia infections, as intrinsic L1 and L2 and TMP-SMX, with approximately 50% of patients receiving β-lactamases are expected to render it ineffective. In vitro mod- fluoroquinolones (including, ciprofloxacin [34%] and levoflox- els suggest ceftazidime is unable to substantially prevent S. mal- acin [57%]) and 50% receiving TMP-SMX . When pooling tophilia growth . Comparative effectiveness studies the fluoroquinolones, they appeared to be marginally signifi- evaluating the role of ceftazidime against S. maltophilia infec- cant in protecting against mortality compared to TMP-SMX, tions are virtually non-existent . As of 2024, the CLSI no with mortality reported in 26% vs 33% of patients, respectively. longer has susceptibility breakpoints for ceftazidime against When limiting the analysis to patients with S. maltophilia S. maltophilia. bloodstream infections, where distinguishing colonization and infection is less problematic, a benefit with fluoroquino- CONCLUSIONS lone use was not evident. As discussed in Question 6.4, an observational study of 1581 The field of AMR is dynamic and rapidly evolving, and the patients with S. maltophilia identified in respiratory or blood treatment of AMR infections will continue to challenge 36 • CID • Tamma et al Downloaded from by guest on May clinicians. As newer antibiotics against resistant pathogens 4. Soto CL, Hsu AJ, Lee JH, et al. Identifying effective durations of antibiotic ther- apy for the treatment of carbapenem-resistant enterobacterales bloodstream in- fections: a multicenter observational study. Clin Infect Dis 2023; 78:27–30. treatment guidance will be updated approximately annually for the treatment of acute uncomplicated cystitis and pyelonephritis in women: a 2010 update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America and the European and is available at: Society for Microbiology and Infectious Diseases. Clin Infect Dis 2011; 52: amr-guidance/. e103–20. 6. Heil EL, Bork JT, Abbo LM,
