Acute myocardial infarction—Part I - PMC
KEYWORDS: infarction, segment, leads, myocardial, elevation, myocardial infarction, right, segment elevation, waves, changes, acute, ventricular, posterior, right ventricular, associated


segment elevation varies between subtle changes of <1 mm to gross elevation of >10 mm. Sometimes the QRS complex, the ST segment, and the T wave fuse to form a single monophasic deflection, called a giant R wave or “tombstone” Pathological Q waves As the acute myocardial infarction evolves, changes to the QRS complex include loss of R wave height and the development of pathological Q waves. Both of these changes develop as a result of the loss of viable myocardium beneath the recording electrode, and the Q waves are the only firm electrocardiographic evidence of myocardial necrosis. Q waves may develop within one to two hours of the onset of symptoms of acute myocardial infarction, though often they take 12 hours and occasionally up to 24 hours to appear. The presence of 2/18 pathological Q waves, however, does not necessarily indicate a completed infarct. If ST segment elevation and Q waves are evident on the electrocardiogram and the chest pain is of recent onset, the patient may still benefit from thrombolysis or direct intervention. When there is extensive myocardial infarction, Q waves act as a permanent marker of necrosis. With more localised infarction the scar tissue may contract during the healing process, reducing the size of the electrically inert area and causing the disappearance of the Q waves. Resolution of changes in ST segment and T waves As the infarct evolves, the ST segment elevation diminishes and the T waves begin to invert. The ST segment elevation associated with an inferior myocardial infarction may take up to two weeks to resolve. ST segment elevation associated with anterior myocardial infarction may persist for even longer, and if a left ventricular aneurysm develops it may persist indefinitely. T wave inversion may also persist for many months and occasionally remains as a permanent sign of infarction. Reciprocal ST segment depression ST segment depression in leads remote from the site of an acute infarct is known as reciprocal change and is a highly sensitive indicator of acute myocardial infarction. Reciprocal changes are seen in up to 70% of inferior and 30% of anterior infarctions. Typically, the depressed ST segments tend to be horizontal or downsloping. The presence of reciprocal change is particularly useful when there is doubt about the clinical significance of ST segment elevation. Reciprocal change strongly indicates acute infarction, with a sensitivity and positive predictive value of over 90%, though its
