Acute myocardial infarction—Part I - PMC
KEYWORDS: infarction, segment, leads, myocardial, elevation, myocardial infarction, right, segment elevation, waves, changes, acute, ventricular, posterior, right ventricular, associated


when there is doubt about the clinical significance of ST segment elevation. Reciprocal change strongly indicates acute infarction, with a sensitivity and positive predictive value of over 90%, though its absence does not rule out the diagnosis. The pathogenesis of reciprocal change is uncertain. Reciprocal changes are most frequently seen when the infarct is large, and they may reflect an extension of the infarct or occur as a result of coexisting remote ischaemia. Alternatively, it may be a benign electrical phenomenon. The positive potentials that are recorded by electrodes facing the area of acute injury are projected as negative deflections in leads opposite the injured area, thus producing a “mirror image” change. Extensive reciprocal ST segment depression in remote regions often indicates widespread arterial disease and consequently carries a worse prognosis. Localisation of site of infarction 3/18 The distribution of changes recorded in acute myocardial infarction allows the area of infarction to be localised, thus indicating the site of arterial disease. Proximal arterial occlusions tend to produce the most widespread electrocardiographic abnormalities. The anterior and inferior aspects of the heart are the areas most commonly subject to infarction. Anteroseptal infarcts are highly specific indicators of disease of the left anterior descending artery. Isolated inferior infarcts—changes in leads II, III, and aVF—are usually associated with disease in the right coronary or distal circumflex artery. Disease in the proximal circumflex artery is often associated with a lateral infarct pattern—that is, in leads I, aVL, V5, and V6. Anatomical relationship of leads Inferior wall—Leads II, III, and aVF Anterior wall—Leads V1 to V4 Lateral wall—Leads I, aVL, V5, and V6 Non-standard leads Right ventricle—Right sided chest leads V1R to V6R Posterior wall—Leads V7 to V9 Right ventricular infarction Right ventricular infarction is often overlooked, as standard 12 lead electrocardiography is not a particularly sensitive indicator of right ventricular damage. Right ventricular infarction is associated with 40% of inferior infarctions. It may also complicate some anterior infarctions but rarely occurs as an isolated phenomenon. On the standard 12 lead electrocardiogram right ventricular infarction is indicated by signs of inferior infarction, associated with ST segment elevation in lead V1. It is unusual for ST segment elevation in lead V1 to occur as an isolated phenomenon. Right sided chest leads are much more sensitive to the presence of right ventricular infarction. The most useful lead is lead V4R (an electrode is placed over the right fifth
