Acute myocardial infarction—Part I - PMC
KEYWORDS: infarction, segment, leads, myocardial, elevation, myocardial infarction, right, segment elevation, waves, changes, acute, ventricular, posterior, right ventricular, associated


Right sided chest leads are much more sensitive to the presence of right ventricular infarction. The most useful lead is lead V4R (an electrode is placed over the right fifth intercostal space in the mid- clavicular line). Lead V4R should be recorded as soon as possible in all patients with inferior infarction, as ST segment elevation in right ventricular infarction may be short lived. 4/18 The diagnosis of right ventricular infarction is important as it may be associated with hypotension. Treatment with nitrates or diuretics may compound the hypotension, though the patient may respond to a fluid challenge Right ventricular infarction usually results from occlusion of the right coronary artery proximal to the right ventricular marginal branches, hence its association with inferior infarction. Less commonly, right ventricular infarction is associated with occlusion of the circumflex artery, and if this vessel is dominant there may be an associated inferolateral wall infarction. Posterior myocardial infarction Posterior myocardial infarction refers to infarction of the posterobasal wall of the left ventricle. The diagnosis is often missed as the standard 12 lead electrocardiography does not include posterior leads. Early detection is important as expeditious thrombolytic treatment may improve the outcome for patients with posterior infarction. The changes of posterior myocardial infarction are seen indirectly in the anterior precordial leads. Leads V1 to V3 face the endocardial surface of the posterior wall of the left ventricle. As these leads record from the opposite side of the heart instead of directly over the infarct, the changes of posterior infarction are reversed in these leads. The R waves increase in size, becoming broader and dominant, and are associated with ST depression and upright T waves. This contrasts with the Q waves, ST segment elevation, and T wave inversion seen in acute anterior myocardial infarction. Ischaemia of the anterior wall of the left ventricle also produces ST segment depression in leads V1 to V3, and this must be differentiated from posterior myocardial infarction. The use of posterior leads V7 to V9 will show ST segment elevation in patients with posterior infarction. These additional leads therefore provide valuable information, and they help in identfying the patients who may benefit from urgent reperfusion therapy. ST segment elevation in posterior chest leads V8 and V9 Footnotes The ABC of clinical electrocardiography is edited by Francis Morris, consultant in emergency medicine at the Northern General Hospital, Sheffield; June Edhouse, consultant in emergency medicine,
