Idiopathic Short Stature and Growth Failure of Unknown Etiology
KEYWORDS: growth, hormone, stature, growth hormone, short, short stature, patient, height, iss, age, puberty, years, percentile, patients, idiopathic


ABSTRACT Idiopathic short stature (ISS) is defined by a height standard deviation score (SDS) ≤ -2.25 (≤1.2nd percentile) in pediatric patients for whom diagnostic evaluation has excluded other causes of short stature, and growth hormone levels are above 10 nanograms per milliliter in response to physiologic/pharmacologic stimulation. This definition, while comprehensive, is static and does not consider the importance of longitudinal follow up of growth, and consideration of evolving causes of growth hormone deficiency in these children. Using three illustrative cases, we highlight the importance of longitudinal evaluation of children with short stature to establish a growth pattern, identifying evolving causes of GH deficiency which may not be apparent on the initial work up, as well as exclusion of non-growth hormone related factors that affect growth including malabsorptive diseases, familial short stature, constitutional delay in puberty, Turner's syndrome, and SHOX Gene haploinsufficiency to accurately make a diagnosis of growth failure of unknown etiology (GFUE). For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION In the 1980s, data on growth outcomes on patients who received growth hormone treatment were reported in an observational study ( 1 ); this included children who had a normal peak growth hormone response to stimulation, a group that was termed “constitutional short stature”. The term, idiopathic short stature (ISS), was later adopted to describe such patients ( 2 ). Guidelines for the use of growth hormone in children published by the Pediatric Endocrine Society defined ISS by a height standard deviation score (SDS) ≤-2.25 (≤1.2nd percentile) in pediatric patients for whom diagnostic evaluation excludes other causes of short stature, and with growth hormone levels above 10 nanograms per milliliter in response to physiologic/pharmacologic stimulation ( 3 ). The evaluation of children with short stature includes observation over a prolonged period to establish a growth pattern as well as the exclusion of non-growth hormone related factors that affect growth ( 4 , 5 ). To monitor children's growth patterns in the United States, the Center for Disease Control (CDC) chart utilizes percentiles, with the 3 rd and 95th percentiles serving as the defined limits. Across the globe, the World Health Organization (WHO) charts are used to track a child's growth progression, and the limits are set at 2.3rd and 97.7th percentiles ( 5 ). There are wide variations in normal growth patterns and an even greater variety of
