Idiopathic Short Stature and Growth Failure of Unknown Etiology
KEYWORDS: growth, hormone, stature, growth hormone, short, short stature, patient, height, iss, age, puberty, years, percentile, patients, idiopathic


child's growth progression, and the limits are set at 2.3rd and 97.7th percentiles ( 5 ). There are wide variations in normal growth patterns and an even greater variety of conditions that manifest with growth abnormalities. Various factors contribute to the etiology of short stature, and this includes normal variants of growth such as familial short stature, constitutional delay in growth and puberty, as well as systemic conditions such as malabsorptive diseases, Turner's syndrome, and SHOX Gene haploinsufficiency, among others ( Table 1 ). Diagnostic tests at initial presentation by pediatric endocrinologists focus on elucidating the underlying cause of poor growth ( Table 2 ). Globally, malnutrition remains the main cause of poor growth ( 5 ). In 2003, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the use of growth hormone (GH) for children with ISS. Two decades later, growth hormone therapy for idiopathic short stature remains controversial. ISS is not universally accepted as an indication for treatment with GH. This medication was approved for ISS in US, Canada, and Latin America, but not in the European Union or Japan ( 6 ). Along with other investigators, we have expressed concerns about the definition of ISS ( 7 ). The Pediatric Endocrine Society consensus statement did not specifically exclude patients with normal variants of growth such as constitutional growth delay and familial short stature ( 3 ). The definition focuses on stature, rather than growth and growth failure, therefore making GH treatment of such patients open to criticism for its use as only a height enhancer. In addition, as we have previously argued, a child whose height decelerates from the 75 to the 25th percentile without any known cause would also be of concern even though the height would not fit the ISS definition ( 7 ). If no cause is found after clinical, appropriate biochemical and radiologic evaluation, such a patient may have what we would prefer to term idiopathic growth failure (IGF). In as much as those initials are already in use for Insulin Like Growth Factor, we prefer the term GFUE, or growth failure of unknown etiology, thereby emphasizing the concern about growth failure, not just stature. To illustrate the potential dilemmas in diagnosis, we present three patients with similar patterns of growth and a normal response to initial growth hormone stimulation testing with 2 provocative agents; each of these children may have been called ISS but
