Idiopathic Short Stature and Growth Failure of Unknown Etiology
KEYWORDS: growth, hormone, stature, growth hormone, short, short stature, patient, height, iss, age, puberty, years, percentile, patients, idiopathic


patients with similar patterns of growth and a normal response to initial growth hormone stimulation testing with 2 provocative agents; each of these children may have been called ISS but demonstrate radically different outcomes. Table 1. Common Causes of Short Stature and Growth Failure View in own window Normal variants of growth Familial short stature Constitutional delay in growth and puberty (CDGP) Systemic disorders Endocrine Growth hormone deficiency Hypothyroidism Cortisol excess (endogenous or exogenous) Non-endocrine Malnutrition Malabsorptive diseases Genetic syndromes: Turner's syndrome, Noonan’s syndrome, Achondroplasia, SHOX gene haploinsufficiency Chronic inflammatory conditions (e.g.: Inflammatory bowel diseases) Chronic medical conditions (e.g.: asthma on inhaled steroids) Table 2. Diagnostic Tests at Initial Investigation of Idiopathic Short Stature and Growth Failure of Unknown Etiology View in own window CBC, ESR Urinalysis Basic metabolic panel- BUN, creatinine, electrolytes Celiac screen Karyotype TSH, Free T4 IGF1, IGFBP3 Bone age x ray PATIENT 1 A boy aged 12 years and 5 months was evaluated for poor growth; both the father and paternal uncle were “late bloomers”. The height was at the 6th percentile, weight at 9th percentile, and Body Mass Index or BMI (weight in Kg divided by the square of height in meters) was at 32nd percentile, and his growth velocity was 3.8 cm per year. Clinical examination indicated Tanner stage 1 pubertal development with testes volume of 2-3mL bilaterally. Laboratory tests performed by the referring pediatrician before endocrine consultation showed normal thyroid function tests, sedimentation rate, C-Reactive protein, and no thyroid autoantibodies. A radiological bone age study confirmed delayed skeletal maturation, with a bone age of 10 years. No additional tests were recommended at the Pediatric endocrinology clinic, and he was observed clinically. At 14 years of age, the patient showed no signs of puberty. Figure 1 shows his longitudinal growth during follow up. His height was the 2nd percentile, weight at the 6th percentile, BMI at the 31st percentile, and growth velocity remained at 3.8 cm per year. Delayed puberty in males is defined as the absence of testicular growth at an age that is 2 to 2.5 SD later than the reference population, which usually is around 14 years of age. ( 7 ) Laboratory results revealed low IGF-1 levels (-1.8 SDS for age and gender), while LH levels were close to pubertal levels, and testosterone levels remained prepubertal. A growth hormone (GH) stimulation test with the provocative agents, arginine and clonidine, was
