Idiopathic Short Stature and Growth Failure of Unknown Etiology
KEYWORDS: growth, hormone, stature, growth hormone, short, short stature, patient, height, iss, age, puberty, years, percentile, patients, idiopathic


age and gender), while LH levels were close to pubertal levels, and testosterone levels remained prepubertal. A growth hormone (GH) stimulation test with the provocative agents, arginine and clonidine, was conducted due to the declining growth velocity and the low IGF-1 levels. Upon stimulation, peak GH level was 15 ng/ml. At 14 years and 6 months old, the patient's height was at the1st percentile and growth velocity had decreased to 1.9 cm per year. The laboratory tests at that visit showed that IGF-1 levels had increased to 226 ng/mL and testosterone was now 45.7 ng/dL, consistent with Tanner stage 2 pubic hair, and 4 ml testicular volume noted on examination. A bone age study confirmed delayed skeletal maturation, with a bone age of 10 years and 6 months. Since the patient had not progressed in puberty at the age of 14 years and 6 months, testosterone priming at a dose of 100 mg intramuscularly, once in 4 weeks for 3 months was initiated. At 15 years of age, his growth velocity had accelerated to 16.4 cm per year and his height was at the 5th percentile. Laboratory tests performed at 15.5 years showed that testosterone level was 301 ng/dL with a LH of 0.57 mIU/ml and IGF-1 levels had increased to 340 ng/ml. A bone age study showed the bone age to be consistent with 14 years and 6 months old. At 16 years and 11 months of age, the patient's height had reached the 36th percentile. Pubertal development had advanced with Tanner stage 3-4 for pubic hair development and testicular volume of 15mL bilaterally. Figure 1. Patient 1 growth chart: Longitudinal growth chart in patient 1 before and after sex hormone priming. DISCUSSION PATIENT 1 This patient’s height at presentation met the criteria for the diagnosis of Idiopathic Short Stature (ISS) since the patient's height was below -2.25 SD ( 8 ). However, with longitudinal follow-up, patient 1 ultimately proved to have constitutional growth delay ( Figure 1 ). The diagnostic approach employed for this patient centered on monitoring. Once testosterone priming was employed, puberty progressed, and he reached his expected adult height. Through a targeted endocrine evaluation and longitudinal monitoring, the patient's condition was successfully managed without growth hormone treatment. This case underscores the importance of judicious use of testing. The onset of puberty differs between boys and girls. In girls, 95% manifest at least one sign of
