Idiopathic Short Stature and Growth Failure of Unknown Etiology
KEYWORDS: growth, hormone, stature, growth hormone, short, short stature, patient, height, iss, age, puberty, years, percentile, patients, idiopathic


hormone treatment. This case underscores the importance of judicious use of testing. The onset of puberty differs between boys and girls. In girls, 95% manifest at least one sign of puberty by 13 years of age whereas boys should begin signs of puberty by 14 years of age. In patients with delayed puberty and slow growth, a careful family history may be consistent with constitutional delay of growth and puberty. There often may be a history of a family member who also did not begin puberty until late into the teenage years, as in the case with the proband’s father and uncle. These patients can be difficult to diagnose because they may appear to be slowing in growth as they cross growth percentiles around the time of the anticipated pubertal growth spurt. Patients with constitutional growth delay fall behind their peers initially but have increased growth velocity later when puberty progresses and most reach adequate adult heights. Patients with constitutional growth delay have delayed bone ages and do not require treatment with growth hormone. PATIENT 2 A boy presents at 12 years 9 months of age with growth failure and short stature. The patient's height had declined from 25th percentile to 10th percentile over 1.5 years, BMI was 40th percentile, growth velocity was 3.8 cm per year, and he was prepubertal. The parental target height was 176.7 cm (50th percentile). Laboratory tests showed that the testosterone level was 12 ng/dL, IGF-1 level was 125ng/mL (-2.06 SD), and bone age study was consistent with 12 years of age. Because of the low growth velocity and IGF1 level, the patient had a growth hormone (GH) stimulation test with provocative agents, arginine, and clonidine. The results showed a peak GH level of 16.9 ng/ml. At 13.5 years old, the patient’s height further declined to be at -2.25 SD and growth velocity was 2.84 cm per year. Figure 2 shows patient 2’s growth trajectory during follow-up. His testicular volume was 6mL bilaterally while tests showed IGF-1 to be114 ng/mL (-2.21 SD), thyroid function tests were normal, early morning cortisol level was 15.2 ug/dL, prolactin was 10 ng/ml, testosterone level 79 ng/dL, the luteinizing hormone was 3.2 mIU/mL, and the follicle-stimulating hormone was 2.1 mIU/mL, all consistent with pubertal progression. As puberty progressed, the growth velocity did not increase leading to a decline in height standard deviation. In the setting of this growth deceleration despite
