Idiopathic Short Stature and Growth Failure of Unknown Etiology
KEYWORDS: growth, hormone, stature, growth hormone, short, short stature, patient, height, iss, age, puberty, years, percentile, patients, idiopathic


all consistent with pubertal progression. As puberty progressed, the growth velocity did not increase leading to a decline in height standard deviation. In the setting of this growth deceleration despite pubertal progression, a second growth hormone stimulation test with arginine and L-dopa was performed. The GH stimulation test revealed a peak GH level of 5.4 ng/ml. This low peak GH level is consistent with growth hormone deficiency (GHD). On pituitary magnetic resonance imaging, the pituitary gland appeared normal but small. The patient was treated with daily recombinant human growth hormone for 4.8 years. He reached an adult height at the 90 th percentile (1.3 SDS), slightly above mid parental height ( Figure 2 ). Figure 2. Patient 2 growth chart: Longitudinal growth chart in patient 2 before and after growth hormone therapy. GH denotes growth hormone. MPTH denotes mid-parental target height. DISCUSSION PATIENT 2 This patient's referral to a pediatric endocrinologist stemmed from decline in height, subpar growth velocity considering stage of puberty, and low levels of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1). Based on his normal response to the first growth hormone (GH) stimulation test, the patient’s diagnosis was consistent with Idiopathic Short Stature (ISS). With continued monitoring, it was apparent that further growth deceleration occurred despite advent and progression of puberty. With an additional growth hormone (GH) stimulation test, the patient was ultimately diagnosed to have evolving growth hormone deficiency. GHD can be congenital or acquired, developing over time. The mechanism of idiopathic GHD might be due to a functional, transient decrease in somatomedin secretion insufficient to maintain growth as puberty sets in. Isolated GHD can be diagnosed using a combination of measuring growth factors, bone age X-rays, and growth hormone stimulation testing ( 9 ). Long-term monitoring as children progress into puberty is essential to uncover these instances of evolving GHD ( 9 ). It is imperative to emphasize the significance of prolonged follow-up and repeated testing to ensure the accurate diagnosis of GHD, rather than classifying the patient under the category of ISS or constitutional delay in growth and puberty (CDGP). In this case, physicians employed a meticulous approach of closely observing the decline in height and height velocity as puberty advanced, alongside screening tests such as IGF-1 measurement and multiple growth hormone stimulation tests. This comprehensive methodology allowed for the accurate diagnosis of GHD. Despite the recognition of their many flaws, including poor reproducibility, non-physiologic assessment,
