Idiopathic Short Stature and Growth Failure of Unknown Etiology
KEYWORDS: growth, hormone, stature, growth hormone, short, short stature, patient, height, iss, age, puberty, years, percentile, patients, idiopathic


IGF-1 measurement and multiple growth hormone stimulation tests. This comprehensive methodology allowed for the accurate diagnosis of GHD. Despite the recognition of their many flaws, including poor reproducibility, non-physiologic assessment, and practical considerations, provocative tests remain part of the comprehensive evaluation of growth and are essential for the diagnosis of GHD ( 10 ). For GH stimulation testing, two agents that provoke GH secretion from the pituitary (L-dopa, clonidine, arginine, glucagon) are administered following an overnight fast. These provocative agents are not physiological and do not replicate normal secretory dynamics. In this patient with short stature, the clinical picture of low growth velocity as puberty progressed plus low IGF-1 levels are indicative of late, or evolving GHD. PATIENT 3 A girl aged 13 years and 6 months was referred to a pediatric endocrinology clinic to evaluate her short stature. The patient had a medical history of ADHD diagnosed at the age of 7 years, and multiple surgeries for strabismus in both eyes. Her mid-parental height was at the 5 th percentile. Axillary hair developed at 11 years of age and breast development started around 10-11 years. At age 13.5 years, the height was at the 1st percentile (-2.27 SD), weight was at <1 percentile, and BMI was at the 6th percentile. Tanner stage of breast development was 3 and pubic hair had been shaved. The patient had small hands and feet, bilateral fifth finger clinodactyly, brachydactyly, and a slightly increased carrying angle. The bone age was12.5 years old with shortening and broadening of the metacarpals which raised concerns for hypochondroplasia. Chromosomal analysis showed a normal female karyotype, 46XX. SHOX gene analysis did not reveal mutations or deletions. This patient had a normal response to growth hormone stimulation test with provocative agents, arginine, and clonidine; peak growth hormone level was 18 ng/ml. The patient was referred to a medical geneticist to undergo further genetic testing to explain her short stature. Repeated chromosome analysis counting 50 cells, had normal female karyotype of 46XX excluding mosaic Turner Syndrome. The microarray results found gain in a 1.5 Mb copy at 10p15.3. The Fragile X test was negative, it did not reveal FMR1 CGG repeat expansions. A genetic testing panel for skeletal dysplasia investigated twenty-nine genes associated with skeletal dysplasia and the results showed no mutations or deletions. Whole exome sequencing did not reveal any variant in disease genes possibly associated with a short stature
