Idiopathic Short Stature and Growth Failure of Unknown Etiology
KEYWORDS: growth, hormone, stature, growth hormone, short, short stature, patient, height, iss, age, puberty, years, percentile, patients, idiopathic


genes associated with skeletal dysplasia and the results showed no mutations or deletions. Whole exome sequencing did not reveal any variant in disease genes possibly associated with a short stature phenotype. In this patient with height -3 SDS and low mid parental height, treatment with growth hormone resulted in modest gains in height SDS. Figure 3 shows this patient’s growth before and after growth hormone therapy. Figure 3. Patient 3 growth chart: Longitudinal growth chart in patient 2 before and after growth hormone therapy. GH denotes growth hormone. DISCUSSION PATIENT 3 The cause of this patient’s short stature was not apparent despite extensive testing; thus, the diagnosis remains Growth Failure of Unknown Etiology, (GFUE) or Idiopathic short stature (ISS). After repeated genetic testing and thorough whole exome sequencing the etiology of the patient’s growth failure remained elusive. Case three presents the roadmap for a proper diagnosis of GFUE/ ISS using diagnoses of exclusion. The patient's height declined below >2.25 SD score below the mean height for a given age and sex, and through extensive genetic testing, there were no abnormalities found. Through a rigorous process of extensive evaluations and the systematic elimination of alternative causes for short stature, including malabsorptive diseases, familial short stature, constitutional delay in puberty, Turner syndrome, and SHOX Gene haploinsufficiency, the patient ultimately received a diagnosis of GFUE or idiopathic short stature. ISS or GFUE may exist as a primary diagnosis alone or may be subcategorized to include ISS with familial short stature or constitutional delay of growth and puberty. Patients with ISS are often predicted to have an adult height below that expected based on mid parental height. It is thought that GH may increase the adult height of patients with ISS by 3.5 to 7.5 cm when compared with controls ( 11 ). GH-treated children with ISS have also been reported to achieve height gain similar to patients with isolated GHD ( 6 ). Additional considerations for treatment in conjunction with GH include gonadotropin- releasing hormone (GnRH) analogs and aromatase inhibitors. Both classes of medications seek to decrease bone age maturation while allowing the child to continue to grow. These agents are still considered experimental when used for improving growth and more studies are needed ( 12 , 13 ). IGF-1 has received some attention recently as a potential treatment for ISS. Currently, IGF-1 is only approved for those patients with proven IGF-1 deficiency
