Idiopathic Short Stature and Growth Failure of Unknown Etiology
KEYWORDS: growth, hormone, stature, growth hormone, short, short stature, patient, height, iss, age, puberty, years, percentile, patients, idiopathic


needed ( 12 , 13 ). IGF-1 has received some attention recently as a potential treatment for ISS. Currently, IGF-1 is only approved for those patients with proven IGF-1 deficiency (IGF-1 levels –3 SD from the mean) with heights below –3 SD from the mean for age and normal stimulated GH levels. There is a lack of prospective studies that show clear benefit of IGF-1 for ISS. IGF-1 has also been associated with potential side effects, including hypoglycemia, headaches, lymphoid tissue hypertrophy, and coarsening of facial features ( 4 ). Further studies must be performed before IGF-1 can be considered a treatment option for GFUE/ISS. The concept that short stature alone is a problem that must be treated often leads to patients seeking treatment for cosmetic, rather than medical reasons to attain an adult height the patient or family feel is appropriate. It is important to stress that short stature itself is not necessarily a medical problem. However, a pattern of growth consistent with growth failure (decreasing growth velocity, growth velocity consistently <50 percentile) regardless of height percentile should be evaluated further. If an underlying cause of growth failure cannot be found, we propose that it is appropriate to use a term such as “idiopathic growth failure” or “growth failure of unknown etiology” (GFUE) rather than “idiopathic short stature.” These terms take the focus off stature as the overriding problem, placing it into an element that all can agree needs investigation and, if persistent, needs intervention for its reversal. Height predictions always, but especially in the face of subnormal growth rates, are likely to be inaccurate and should be provided with a great deal of caution ( 5 ). We believe that familial short stature and constitutional delay of growth and puberty should be removed from the current overall category of “ISS” and placed under the category “normal variant.” A child should be labeled as GFUE/ISS only after an in depth evaluation for other etiologies has been performed ( 7 ). As Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) and other diagnostic techniques become established, the number of patients with unidentified causes for growth failure is likely to diminish. CONCLUSION The three illustrative cases above help to show the significance of comprehensive testing, thorough evaluations, and rigorous longitudinal monitoring, to exclude currently known causes of short stature. Every effort should be made to avoid any bias in referral and evaluation of short stature
