JGastroenterol(2013)48:177–181
KEYWORDS: functional, effects, ibs, patients, dyspepsia, functional dyspepsia, agents, symptoms, treatment, gastric, study, cid, buspirone, placebo, efficacy


agents are the effects of buspirone on gastric functions and post- well established; however, there are also gastrointestinal prandialsymptomsin17patientswithfunctionaldyspepsia effects of these agents. The objectives of this paper are to in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized trial. review the pharmacodynamic effects of these agents on Thestudyshowedreductioninfullness,bloating,belching, gastrointestinalfunctions,andtoexaminehowtheseeffects andnausea,aswellasoveralldyspepsiaseverityscore,and might be reflected in results of randomized, controlled this was associated with increased postprandial accom- trials with these agents. modation, but there were no significant effects on gastric emptying or sensation thresholds in response to balloon distension in the stomach . Serotonergic psychoactive agents On the other hand, the effects of venlafaxine, 75–150 and pharmacodynamics in functional dyspepsia mg, compared to placebo were tested in functional dyspepsia, but this treatment was associated with con- The Rome III criteria for functional dyspepsia are as siderable drop-outs secondary to adverse events (such follows . as nausea, palpitations, sweating, sleeping disorders, symptoms for the past 3 months, with symptom onset at efficacy was demonstrated during treatment or follow-up least 6 months prior to diagnosis: postprandial fullness, . early satiety, epigastric burning, as well as no evidence of The effects of the tricyclic antidepressant (TCA), ami- structural disease that is likely to explain symptoms triptyline,onpostprandialsymptomsweretestedinhealthy (including any condition detected by upper endoscopy). volunteers and in patients with functional dyspepsia. In This is further classified as: healthy volunteers, amitriptyline retards gastric emptying and reduces postprandial (caloric drink challenge) symp- (A) Postprandial distress syndrome toms, especially nausea . A single-center, parallel- (B) Epigastric pain syndrome group study showed amitriptyline (12.5–50 mg for In general, the pathophysiology of functional dyspepsia 8 weeks), compared to placebo, did not affect drinking involves psychosocial factors, altered motility (including capacity and postprandial symptoms evoked by the drink gastricemptyingandaccommodation)andalteredsensation; test in 38 functional dyspepsia patients. However, during asubsetofpatientsreportsapriorepisodeofgastroenteritis. the entire treatment, nausea symptom score was signifi- Among serotonergic psychoactive agents proposed for cantly reduced by amitriptyline compared with placebo treatment of functional dyspepsia, buspirone, a 5-HT1A . Results of an NIH-funded multicenter study of clin- receptor agonist, enhanced gastric relaxation , and par- ical efficacy are awaited . Meanwhile, a small study oxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI, from Japan compared amitriptyline to no treatment in 30 mg paroxetine daily for 4 days), accelerated orocecal patients with functional dyspepsia who were famotidine transit in 10 healthy controls and 8 IBS patients, but there and mosapride non-responders. Significant benefits were was no effect on whole
