JGastroenterol(2013)48:177–181
KEYWORDS: functional, effects, ibs, patients, dyspepsia, functional dyspepsia, agents, symptoms, treatment, gastric, study, cid, buspirone, placebo, efficacy


orocecal patients with functional dyspepsia who were famotidine transit in 10 healthy controls and 8 IBS patients, but there and mosapride non-responders. Significant benefits were was no effect on whole gut transit time . observed in the amitriptyline groups . On the other There is a third class of combined serotonin and hand,alarge multicenterstudyofamitriptylineinchildren norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRI), of which a with diverse FGIDs showed no benefit of the TCA over prototype is venlafaxine. In a detailed study of upper placebo . gastrointestinal functions (gastric emptying accommoda- tionandsatiation)inhealthyparticipants,theeffectsof a spectrum of serotonergic psychoactive agents adminis- Serotonergic psychoactive agents tered (at standard starting doses to treat anxiety and and pharmacodynamics in irritable bowel syndrome depression)for11 daysshowedthatparoxetine,20 mgper day,acceleratedorocecaltransitofasolidmeal;buspirone, The Rome III diagnostic criteria for IBS are as 10 mg p.o. twice daily, decreased postprandial aggregate follows: symptom and nausea scores after a fully satiating liquid Recurrent abdominal pain or discomfort at least 3 days nutrient meal; and venlafaxine-XR, 75 mg per day, permonthinthelast3 monthsassociatedwith2ormoreof enhanced gastric accommodation measured by SPECT the following: imaging, a validated method to measure gastric volume .Thesedatasuggestapotentialforuseofbuspirone 1. Improvement with defecation and venlafaxine in functional dyspepsia. 2. Onset associated with a change in frequency of stool Has this been translated into efficacious treatment in 3. Onset associated with a change in form (appearance) patients with functional dyspepsia? Tack et al. examined of stool JGastroenterol(2013)48:177–181 179 In general, the pathophysiology of IBS involves Efficacy of serotonergic psychoactive agents psychosocial factors, altered motor function (including in meta-analyses in irritable bowel syndrome motility and transit), altered sensation, and altered host patients report a prior episode of gastroenteritis. Report of 2009 suggested there are several effective In a detailed study of lower gastrointestinal functions treatments for IBS, such as fiber, peppermint oil, antide- (colonic motility, compliance and sensation) in healthy pressants, probiotics, and antispasmodics/smooth muscle participants , buspirone had virtually no effects, relaxants.Indeed,theestimatednumberneededtotreatwas whereas venlafaxine increased compliance, relaxed tone, as low as 4 for many classes of treatment, including anti- reduced postprandial colonic contraction, and tended to depressants . Other meta-analyses reached different increase thresholds for sensation of first perception and conclusions. There is always concern when meta-analyses gas, while it also reduced pain sensation ratings in includetrialswithdifferentdesigns,differentdoses,diverse response to grades distensions. Both buspirone and ven- mechanisms, and small trials to reach conclusions that are lafaxine did not significantly alter colonic transit in oftenproposedinsocietalguidelines.Itiswisetofollowthe healthy participants . counsel that meta-analyses should
