Pharmaceutical Medicine (2020) 34:257–262
KEYWORDS: psoriasis, ibd, patients, il-, disease, etanercept, inflammatory, bowel, inflammatory bowel, risk, ixekizumab, secukinumab, brodalumab, diseases, tnf


Pharmaceutical Medicine (2020) 34:257–262 REVIEW ARTICLE Is Psoriasis Treatment a Risk Factor for Inflammatory Bowel Disease? Piotr Nehring1 · Adam Przybyłkowski1 Published online: 8 June 2020 © The Author(s) 2020 Abstract Inflammatory bowel diseases—ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease—are linked with several environmental and genetic risk factors. There are also known drugs able to induce de novo disease or to exacerbate its course. Several autoimmune disorders are more frequent in patients with inflammatory bowel diseases, including psoriasis. The aim of the presented review was to summarise current knowledge on the links between psoriasis therapy and inflammatory bowel diseases. The interleukin-17 inhibitors (secukinumab, brodalumab and ixekizumab) and tumour necrosis factor inhibitor (etanercept), have the potential to induce ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease de novo or exacerbate existing but silent diseases. There is no evidence that other biologic agents used in psoriasis are lined with such risk. The biologic drugs for psoriasis differ in their potential to induce or worsen inflammatory bowel diseases. Currently, there are no recommendations in European guidelines to screen patients with psoriasis for inflammatory bowel diseases. However, based on available evidence, inflammatory bowel diseases should not be forgotten on in-depth diagnostics in patients with psoriasis. Key Points consumption, food additives, low fibre diet, smoking, dysbi- osis, urban air pollution, white-collar and sedentary occupa- The biologic drugs for psoriasis differ in their potential tions, and moving to areas with a high incidence of inflam- to induce or worsen inflammatory bowel diseases. matory bowel diseases (IBD) . Drugs that are associated with incidence of IBD are non-steroidal anti-inflammatory The interleukin-17 inhibitors and etanercept have the drugs (NSAIDs) with the exception of aspirin, oral contra- potential to induce ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease ception and antibiotics. Exposure to antibiotics (metroni- de novo or exacerbate existing but silent diseases. dazole, fluoroquinolones, broad-spectrum penicillin, tet- racyclines, cephalosporins, macrolides, sulphonamides) is claimed to be a risk factor of IBD, especially CD, and this association is stronger in paediatric-onset IBD . Up to 50% of patients with IBD experience at least one 1 Introduction extra-intestinal manifestation (EIM) of the disease, particu- larly, spondyloarthritis, osteoporosis, eye disorders (e.g. episcleritis, uveitis and scleritis), erythema nodosum, pyo- The European Crohn’s and Colitis Organisation (ECCO derma gangrenosum, Sweet’s syndrome, psoriasis, primary 2016) list the following environmental risk factors as being sclerosing cholangitis, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, por- associated with ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn’s dis- tal vein thrombosis and granulomatous
