Pharmaceutical Medicine (2020) 34:257–262
KEYWORDS: psoriasis, ibd, patients, il-, disease, etanercept, inflammatory, bowel, inflammatory bowel, risk, ixekizumab, secukinumab, brodalumab, diseases, tnf


primary 2016) list the following environmental risk factors as being sclerosing cholangitis, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, por- associated with ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn’s dis- tal vein thrombosis and granulomatous hepatitis . ease (CD): delivery by caesarean section (it is explained that caesarean section isolates foetus from maternal micro- biota on delivery), small family size, being the older sib- 2 Inflammatory Bowel Diseases ling, no breastfeeding, high animal fat and animal proteins and Psoriasis * Adam Przybyłkowski There are several pathophysiological links between psoria- sis and IBD. Elevated concentrations of cytokines in serum Poland Vol.:(0123456789) 2 58 P. Nehring, A. Przybyłkowski and agents that inhibit their action often improve both con- of IBD . Whitlock et al. from the Medical Board of ditions. Approximately 15% of patients with IBS are diag- the National Psoriasis Foundation performed a systematic nosed with cutaneous EIM of IBD . review of 132 articles on psoriasis treatment and showed Psoriasis affects approximately 10% of general popula- that secukinumab, brodalumab, and ixekizumab have dem- tion and may be characterised by the involvement of several onstrated efficacy in psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis but may organs, leading to arthritis, cardiovascular diseases, chronic exacerbate or induce IBD . kidney disease, diabetes and metabolic syndrome, the so- Improper regulation of immunological response is one of called ‘psoriatic march’. the proposed backgrounds for IBD development. It has been The incidence of IBD is higher in populations with pso- stated that IL-17, as a cytokine, may play an important role riasis, psoriatic arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis (AS) in IBD pathogenesis . IL-17A was found to be increased [5–7]. The risk of UC in psoriatic patients is 1.6-times in the intestinal mucosa in patients with CD, therefore, was higher than in the general population . There are sev- treated as a potential target of immunotherapy. However, eral hypothetic explanations for this phenomena including it was found to be ineffective and resulted in high rates of genetic predisposition or environmental factors with grow- adverse events . ing evidence for the deleterious role of T helper (Th) 17 The role of IL-17 in IBD is still controversial. Murine cells in IBD and psoriasis . Psoriasis is more frequent in models suggest a protective role against IBD; however, patients with CD; in a study by Lee et al., psoriasis was pre- human studies showed no efficacy of IL-17 antagonists sent in 9.6% patients with CD compared
