Pharmaceutical Medicine (2020) 34:257–262
KEYWORDS: psoriasis, ibd, patients, il-, disease, etanercept, inflammatory, bowel, inflammatory bowel, risk, ixekizumab, secukinumab, brodalumab, diseases, tnf


IBD; however, patients with CD; in a study by Lee et al., psoriasis was pre- human studies showed no efficacy of IL-17 antagonists sent in 9.6% patients with CD compared to 2% controls, and in CD . Some agents used in psoriasis treatment, e.g. patients with CD were more likely to have a first-degree rela- brodalumab were proved to worsen the course of CD . tive with psoriasis (10% vs 3%, respectively) . Systemic Other studies demonstrated the triggering potential of ixeki- inflammation is responsible for the severity and chronicity of zumab for UC . Over 15 years ago, Ogawa et al. showed psoriasis, as well as for the development of concomitant dis- that a neutralising IL-17 monoclonal antibody exacerbated eases, e.g. cardiovascular diseases or metabolic syndrome. colitis in mice via increases in CD4-positive helper T cells First-line treatments for psoriasis comprise photother- and CD11b-positive granulocytes, monocytes infiltration apy, methotrexate, retinoids and cyclosporine A. Where and an increase in TNF-α, interferon-gamma and IL-6 . conventional therapy is ineffective, second-line drugs are However, several studies showed dichotomy of IL-17 inhi- used, such as TNF inhibitors (adalimumab, etanercept, inf- bition in patients with psoriasis for IBD exacerbation and liximab, certolizumab pegol), anti–IL-12/IL-23 antibody reduction [23–25]. Psoriasis is associated with CD and UC, (ustekinumab), anti–IL-17 antibodies (secukinumab and therefore, incidence of this condition in psoriatic patients ixekizumab), anti–IL-17 receptor antibody (brodalumab) may be more frequent . Skin and intestinal epithe- and the anti–IL-23/IL-39 antibodies (guselkumab and lium is affected by IL-17 in both enhancing antimicrobial tildrakizumab). defence and cellular strength, and interconnections. Block- ade of IL-17 has positive effects in repairing tissue damage in psoriasis; however, may increase epithelium damage in 3 Interleukin‑17 Inhibitors IBD . Several studies reported diarrhoea as a relatively common adverse event, and it is difficult to conclude if Compared to the general population, patients with CD have all these cases should be investigated for IBD; severe epi- a 7-times higher risk of developing psoriasis . On the sodes are obvious and easier to follow. Clinicians should be other hand, patients with psoriasis have a 2.9-times higher watchful before prescribing IL-17 antagonists, especially in risk of developing CD . Th1, Th17 and regulatory T patients with IBD, and therefore patients with IBD receiv- cells induce cytokine pathways mediated by TNF, IL-1, ing IL-17 antagonists should be monitored for symptoms of IL-12/23 and IL-6 that can affect the intestine, joints,
