Pharmaceutical Medicine (2020) 34:257–262
KEYWORDS: psoriasis, ibd, patients, il-, disease, etanercept, inflammatory, bowel, inflammatory bowel, risk, ixekizumab, secukinumab, brodalumab, diseases, tnf


patients with IBD receiv- cells induce cytokine pathways mediated by TNF, IL-1, ing IL-17 antagonists should be monitored for symptoms of IL-12/23 and IL-6 that can affect the intestine, joints, meta- exacerbation. bolic pathways and the cardiovascular system . IL-17 3.1 Secukinumab is a pro-inflammatory protein whose expression is induced by the differentiation of naïve CD4-positive T cells into Th17 . IL-17A plays a role in the recruitment of neutro- The fully human monoclonal antibody, secukinumab, is phils, host defence and pathology of autoimmunology and an IL-17A antagonist used in psoriasis and AS. Recently, inflammation. Moreover, IL-17 plays a role in numerous observations of IBD onset have been reported after secuki- immune-mediated disorders, such as rheumatoid arthritis, numab infusion and evidence is evolving . . Anti–IL-17 therapies (ustekinumab, ixekizumab and als of 7355 patients with psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis and brodalumab) are used in moderate-to-severe psoriasis. It was AS treated with secukinumab . Of the 5181 analysed observed that anti–IL-17 antibodies are linked with the risk patients with psoriasis, there were 14 new cases of UC, Psoriasis and Inflammatory Bowel Disease? 259 five cases of CD and 1 case of unclassified IBD (IBDU). adverse events over 120 weeks’ treatment with brodalumab Among 1380 patients with psoriatic arthritis, there were 7 . Puig et al. showed similar rates of serious adverse patients with new-onset IBD, and among 794 patients with events and adverse events leading to discontinuation in AS, there were nine cases of new-onset IBD. Using Good patients who received brodalumab 210 mg every 2 weeks, Vigilance Practice terminology, the authors concluded that continuous brodalumab 210 mg every 2 weeks or any dose the frequency of IBD event in this group was uncommon of brodalumab. The authors did not mention new cases of (< 1%) and that exposure-adjusted incidence rates of IBD IBD or the proportion with IBD in each group. The most did not increase over time with secukinumab. A history frequently reported treatment-emergent adverse events of IBD was not an exclusion criterion in the secukinumab related to brodalumab were arthralgia, headache, diarrhoea, trials; however, patients were excluded from the ankylosis oropharyngeal pain, and Candida infections. Similar results spondylitis studies if they had active IBD or from the psoria- were observed in a previous Phase 2 trial by Umezawa et al. sis and psoriatic arthritis studies if they had active ongoing . In other Phase 3 trials, there was one
