Pharmaceutical Medicine (2020) 34:257–262
KEYWORDS: psoriasis, ibd, patients, il-, disease, etanercept, inflammatory, bowel, inflammatory bowel, risk, ixekizumab, secukinumab, brodalumab, diseases, tnf


3 trial showed no new cases of IBD in . In 2020, Lee et al. reported a case of patient with UC patients taking ixekizumab in a 24-week observation period; treated with a maintenance dose of mesalazine who devel- however, one case of anal abscess was reported, which may oped severe UC exacerbation after 3 months of therapy be consistent with IBD . In a Phase 3 trial comparing with secukinumab for psoriasis . Moreover, Lee et al. ixekizumab with etanercept or placebo for psoriasis, one reported a case of patient without IBD history, who devel- patient developed exacerbation of previously diagnosed UC, oped CD after introduction of secukinumab for AS. and one had a new-onset CD . Another case of Crohn’s- In 2018, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) changed like colitis was reported in a patient receiving ixekizumab the product information for secukinumab (variation) by add- for chronic plaque psoriasis . After review of available ing a warning on IBD. In 2019, with growing evidence, the data, recommendation to update product information for EMA added ‘inflammatory bowel disease’ to the adverse ixekizumab to inform patients and healthcare professionals drug reactions (ADRs) of secukinumab, with a frequency about the IBD risk has been issued by EMA. of ‘uncommon’. 3.2 Brodalumab 4 TNF Inhibitors Brodalumab is a fully human anti–IL-17 receptor A mon- TNF inhibitors are drugs used in inflammatory conditions oclonal antibody. It was approved for the treatment of such as rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, juvenile moderate-to-severe psoriasis if other biological therapies arthritis, IBD, AS and psoriasis. They reduce inflamma- fail. In patients who had previously received ustekinumab, tion and can stop disease progression by targeting inflam- Puig et al. assessed exposure-adjusted treatment-emergent mation-causing TNF. In psoriasis, etanercept, infliximab, 2 60 P. Nehring, A. Przybyłkowski adalimumab and certolizumab pegol are used, whereas in an artificially engineered dimeric fusion protein – a combi- IBD, infliximab, adalimumab and golimumab are registered. nation of two naturally occurring soluble human TNF recep- The anti-TNF antibodies, infliximab, adalimumab and tors linked to an Fc portion of an IgG1 acting as a trap for certolizumab used to treat IBD are claimed to increase the TNF (TNFR /IgG ). Other TNF inhibitors (adalimumab, inf- 2 1 risk induction or recurrence of psoriasis or psoriasiform liximab, golimumab) are monoclonal antibodies (combina- skin lesions in children . Bae et al. suggested that TNF tion of fragment antigen binding [Fab]
