Pharmaceutical Medicine (2020) 34:257–262
KEYWORDS: psoriasis, ibd, patients, il-, disease, etanercept, inflammatory, bowel, inflammatory bowel, risk, ixekizumab, secukinumab, brodalumab, diseases, tnf


induction or recurrence of psoriasis or psoriasiform liximab, golimumab) are monoclonal antibodies (combina- skin lesions in children . Bae et al. suggested that TNF tion of fragment antigen binding [Fab] linked to Fc portion inhibitors used in adult patients with IBD may increase the of an IgG). Adalimumab and infliximab are in the form of risk of psoriasis, especially palmoplantar pustulosis , naturally occurring antibodies and are capable of neutral- meanwhile the opposite effect, i.e. increased risk of IBD ising all forms of TNF (extracellular, transmembrane, and in patients treated with etanercept for psoriasis is convinc- bound to the receptor). Etanercept as a receptor-construct ingly documented. According to Wendling et al. who pro- fusion protein cannot neutralise receptor-bound TNF. More- posed new-onset IBD as a possible adverse drug reaction to over, adalimumab and infliximab, but not etanercept, have TNF inhibition, etanercept was reported most frequently; the capability of lysing cells involved in the inflammatory however, it is not indicated for IBD treatment . Tolu process. It is not clearly stated whether this biotechnologi- et al. reported a case of a 29-year-old male with AS who cal dissimilarity of etanercept may result in a potential to developed CD taking etanercept; after treatment interrup- exacerbate IBD. tion and a switch to adalimumab, a prompt improvement of In 2019, the EMA updated the product information of the gastrointestinal symptoms was achieved . This case etanercept adding IBD to the ADRs list with a frequency report indicated the immune dysregulation and proinflam- of ‘uncommon’. matory effects of etanercept. O’Toole et al. analysed cases of IBD reported with etanercept between 2003 and 2014 in the Food and Drug Administration Adverse Event Reporting 5 Conclusions System and in a Research Patient Database Registry at the Brigham and Women´s Hospital between 1998 and 2014. Targeted anti–IL-17 drugs as well as the anti-TNF drug In total, 443 cases (297 CD, 146 UC) of new-onset IBD etanercept may increase the risk of IBD in patients with were identified that were associated with etanercept therapy psoriasis. Currently, there is no evidence that other biologi- . From data pooled from 49 complete cases, etanercept cal drugs used in psoriasis, the anti–IL-23/IL-39 antibodies was discontinued in 34 patients, 19 required a change to (guselkumab, tildrakizumab, risankizumab) and anti–IL-12/ another anti-TNF agent, 8 improved on discontinuation of IL-23 inhibitor (ustekinumab), induce or worsen IBD. There etanercept and, in three patients, etanercept was continued
