Pharmaceutical Medicine (2020) 34:257–262
KEYWORDS: psoriasis, ibd, patients, il-, disease, etanercept, inflammatory, bowel, inflammatory bowel, risk, ixekizumab, secukinumab, brodalumab, diseases, tnf


to (guselkumab, tildrakizumab, risankizumab) and anti–IL-12/ another anti-TNF agent, 8 improved on discontinuation of IL-23 inhibitor (ustekinumab), induce or worsen IBD. There etanercept and, in three patients, etanercept was continued are no recommendations in European guidelines to screen combined with 5-aminosalicylic acid therapy. However, data patients with psoriasis for IBD. However, based on available were inadequate to assess causality fully because a direct evidence, IBD should not be forgotten on in-depth diagnos- relationship between the initiation of etanercept and IBD tics in patients with psoriasis. diagnosis was not explicit. Toussirot et al. investigated 16 cases of new-onset IBD Author contributions All authors were responsible for design of the in patients with inflammatory rheumatic disease receiv- article and manuscript preparation. All authors approved the final ver- ing anti-TNF therapy: 14 patients received etanercept and sion of the manuscript. 2 infliximab . All patients improved after interruption Compliance with Ethical Standards of the etanercept treatment and after a switch to infliximab or adalimumab. In 2019, Korzenik et al. published data from a nationwide cohort study based on Danish health registries Funding No funding was received for publication of the review. Open Access has been covered by The Medical University of Warsaw. concerning patients who utilised TNF inhibitors for other indications than IBD . Korzenik et al. included 17,018 individuals with autoimmune diseases who were exposed Conflict of Interest All authors declare no conflicts of interest related to this article. to TNF inhibitors and 63,308 controls. They showed that patients treated with etanercept had an increased risk of CD Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attri- and UC, compared to those receiving infliximab and adali- bution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License, which permits any mumab . non-commercial use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction Other TNF inhibitors used in psoriasis (adalimumab, inf- in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Com- liximab, certolizumab pegol) showed no increases in IBD mons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other risk . Adalimumab and infliximab are registered agents third party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative in IBD treatment. There is a biotechnological difference Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the between etanercept and other TNF inhibitors. Etanercept is material. If material is not included in
