REVIEW
KEYWORDS: tuberculosis, drug, tolerance, inh, rif, metabolic, stress, reduced, drugs, treatment, expression, response, bdq, cell, metabolism


to RIF, INH, and ofloxacin (88). Drug tolerance occurred through altering propionyl-CoA metabolism when bacteria were grown in vitamin B -freepropionate-supplementedmedium.Tolerancewasreversedupontheaddition of vitamin B , as propionate was then metabolized in the vitamin B -dependent 12 12 methylmalonyl-CoA pathway (88). Another example is “high-persisting” (hip) mutants ofgeneslinkedtolipidbiosynthesisandcarbonmetabolismpathwaysthathavebeen isolated under RIF and streptomycin pressure (89). In hip mutants, reduced FadE30 activity is likely to manifest as reduced lipid catabolism, consistent with metabolic shiftingofcarbonawayfromtheTCAcycleinfavoroflipidsynthesis.Theupregulation of icl and tgs1 in hip mutants is also of interest (89), as this promotes the glyoxylate bypassandtheredirectionofcarbonsourcesintolipidsynthesis. Whilegeneticchangesareusuallypermanent,transientframeshiftmutationsinthe glpKgene,whichencodesaglycerol-3-kinase,areassociatedwithtolerancetoINH,RIF, hypothesized that glpK frameshift mutations result in drug tolerance through the metabolic changes that result from reduced glycerol metabolism in glpK mutants, which could affect drug effectiveness by reducing growth, impacting the cellular structure, promoting the expression of stress response regulators (such as DosR and SigH),orinducinggenesrelatedtoTAGsynthesis(90,91). Drug-SpecificToleranceMechanisms Isoniazid. Isoniazid (INH) is a prodrug that is converted intracellularly by the catalase-peroxidase KatG into isonicotinoyl, which binds NAD(cid:2) to form isonicotinoyl- NAD. Isonicotinoyl-NAD negatively affects cell wall integrity by inhibiting InhA, a key enzyme in the synthesis of the bacterial cell wall lipid mycolic acid (Fig. 4). KatG- mediatedconversionofINHgenerateshighlevelsofmutagenicROS,whichcontributes to the high bactericidal activity of INH. During the first 2 days of treatment, INH kills about 90% of M. tuberculosis bacteria (65). Thereafter, the bactericidal activity de- creases, a phenomenon attributed to INH tolerance (27, 65). The transcriptional re- sponse to INH stress occurs rapidly following INH exposure (25, 65, 92–94), with over 100genesupregulatedinthebacillithatremainaliveaftertheinitialkillingbyINH(55, 57, 95, 96). The majority of the INH-regulated genes cluster in metabolic pathways involved in lipid metabolism and cell wall synthesis, reflecting the two main INH tolerancemechanisms:areducedneedforlipidsynthesisduetoreducedgrowthand metabolicshiftingoflipidmetabolismandredoxhomeostasispathwaystocircumvent INH-induced disruption of cell wall integrity (Fig. 4). The involvement of different pathwayssuggeststhatM.tuberculosisexploitsawidearsenaloftolerancemechanisms andisconsistentwiththediscoveryofcross-talkingmechanismswithinmycobacterial metabolism. ThefirstimportantINHtolerancemechanismisthereducedneedforlipidsynthesis duetoreducedgrowthandmetabolicshiftingoflipidmetabolism,asINHtolerancehas been observed in slow-growing and nonreplicating M. tuberculosis (55, 57, 96, 97). Under INH stress, M. tuberculosis likely reduces its lipid dependency by reducing metabolicactivity(65).Theproductionofcellwalllipidsthenbecomeslesscriticalas fewer metabolites are required for growth. In vitro experiments further suggest that underINHstress,M.tuberculosismaysensethelowconcentrationsofmaturemycolic acids and increased levels of mycolic acid biosynthesis intermediates, resulting in M. tuberculosis adapting its lipid metabolism. For example, M. tuberculosis upregulates multiple genes involved in mycolic acid synthesis (fas, the kas operon, cmaA2, cmrA, mmaA2, mmaA3, mmaA4, umaA1, and fbpC), which could promote mycolic acid syn- thesisandcircumventthecellwalldamageinducedbyINH(62,65,92–94).Inaddition, genes involved in lipid metabolism not directly related to mycolic acid synthesis are implicated in the INH stress response. For example, tgs1, which metabolically shifts
