REVIEW
KEYWORDS: tuberculosis, drug, tolerance, inh, rif, metabolic, stress, reduced, drugs, treatment, expression, response, bdq, cell, metabolism


increased expression of the dormancy regulon could contribute to BDQ tolerance, as it reduces the need for ATP synthesis. IncreasedATPsynthesisthroughtheoverexpressionofgenesencodingATPsynthase subunits,genesinvolvedinoxidativephosphorylation(suchascytochrome-associated genes),andgenesassociatedwiththeTCAcycle(whichgeneratesthereducingagents that enter oxidative phosphorylation) all illustrate how M. tuberculosis employs meta- bolicshiftingtoovercometheBDQ-drivenpressureonATPsynthesis(37).Inaddition, M. tuberculosis shifts central carbon metabolism in response to BDQ by upregulating treS,whichintroducesashifttowardtrehalose-fueledmetabolism,therebymaintaining ATP and NADPH levels and further contributing to BDQ tolerance (124). The role of January2021 Volume34 Issue1 e00141-20 cmr.asm.org 12 M.tuberculosisDrugTolerance ClinicalMicrobiologyReviews trehalose as an internal carbon source in BDQ tolerance is supported by the findings that treS deletion mutants incapable of generating a trehalose-fueled central carbon metabolismshowedrapiddepletionofATPandwere144-foldmoresusceptibletoBDQ (124). Finally, efflux pump expression upon BDQ exposure may contribute to the devel- opmentofatransientstateofBDQtolerance.Thisisnotsurprisinggiventhatmutations in Rv0678, a transcriptional repressor of the MmpS5-MmpL5 efflux pump-encoding genes, confer resistance to BDQ and cross-resistance to clofazimine (125). The obser- vationthattheeffluxpumpinhibitorsverapamilandreserpineincreaseBDQactivityin wild-type H37Rv M. tuberculosis suggests that efflux pump activity introduces a basal level of intrinsic BDQ resistance in M. tuberculosis (125, 126). While BDQ-induced overexpression of efflux pump activity could result in BDQ tolerance, this has, to our knowledge,notyetbeenreported. DISCUSSION Twodecadesago,Wallisetal.suggestedthatdrugtolerance(definedasdelayedin drug-tolerant populations in pretreatment isolates was associated with relapse or treatmentfailure.Theyalsostatedthatdrugtherapycantriggerdrugtoleranceinvivo, asclinicalisolatesshowedincreaseddrugtoleranceuponprolongeddrugexposure(7). AbetterunderstandingofthemechanismthatM.tuberculosisusestogenerateastate ofdrugtolerancetoeithermultipledrugsoraspecificdrugordrugclasscouldresult in the identification of novel agents aimed at preventing the development of a drug-tolerant phenotypic state in M. tuberculosis, thus creating a new approach to treatmentshorteningforTB.Moreover,understandingdrug-specifictolerancemecha- nisms could contribute to improved drug regimen designs where antagonistic drug combinationsareavoided. Since this seminal paper, several experimental studies have provided evidence for the existence of a drug-tolerant phenotype of M. tuberculosis and have explored the mechanisms of general tolerance to multiple drug classes and tolerance to specific drugs. Tolerance, a temporal and reversible phenotypic state of M. tuberculosis that developsinresponsetostress(includingdrugpressure),resultsfromadaptivemech- anismsthatallowM.tuberculosistosurviveforalongerperiodwhenexposedtostress. The main general mechanisms that mycobacteria use to acquire a temporary drug- tolerant state are slowdown of its metabolism, rearrangement of core metabolic pathwaystocircumventtheeffectsofthedrugs,upregulationofeffluxpumps,andcell wall restructuring. These mechanisms are intertwined through shifting of central carbon pathways, lipid metabolism, and redox homeostasis via transcriptional and posttranscriptionalregulatorssuchassigmafactors,WhiBregulons,andtoxin-antitoxin systems.Withregardtodrug-specifictoleranceresponses,moststudieshavefocused on INH and BDQ, while less attention has been paid to the other drugs used for the treatmentofTB. PotentialClinicalUtilityandTopicsforFurtherStudy Several studies have made important observations that highlight the clinical rele- vanceandthepotentialapplicationofanimprovedunderstandingoftolerance.First, the presence of tolerance can increase the risk of development of resistance, as has beendemonstratedin(invitroandinvivo)experimentalevolutionarystudiesinE.coli andStaphylococcusaureus(127,128).InM.tuberculosis,theobservationthatcellwall thickness increases from pansusceptible to multidrug-resistant and extensively drug- resistant (XDR) M. tuberculosis strains suggests that transient drug tolerance can precede fixed drug resistance. Cell wall thickening results in phenotypically tolerant mycobacteriathatareabletosurvivelongerinthepresenceofantituberculosisdrugs.
