REVIEW
KEYWORDS: tuberculosis, drug, tolerance, inh, rif, metabolic, stress, reduced, drugs, treatment, expression, response, bdq, cell, metabolism


from pansusceptible to multidrug-resistant and extensively drug- resistant (XDR) M. tuberculosis strains suggests that transient drug tolerance can precede fixed drug resistance. Cell wall thickening results in phenotypically tolerant mycobacteriathatareabletosurvivelongerinthepresenceofantituberculosisdrugs. Under these conditions, M. tuberculosis is exposed for prolonged periods to an envi- ronmentthatismutagenic,thuspromotingtheacquisitionofdrugresistance(129).The hypothesis of tolerance preceding drug resistance is further supported by the obser- January2021 Volume34 Issue1 e00141-20 cmr.asm.org 13 Goossensetal. ClinicalMicrobiologyReviews vationofatrehaloseshiftinclinicalXDRisolatescomparedtosusceptibleisolatesand thefindingthatprpRmutationsareenrichedinresistantstrainscomparedtosuscep- tible strains (88, 124). Second, the discovery that supplementation of INH-containing regimens with drugs that target redox metabolism (such as the malarial drug chloro- quine)increasesthekillingofINH-tolerantbacilliandreducesrelapserateshighlights theopportunitytoexploretherepurposingofexistingdrugstooptimizethetreatment of TB by reducing the development of tolerance (100). Third, the finding that the proportionofRIF-inducedtolerantbacteriaisinverselyrelatedtothedoseofRIFused supports the use of RIF high-dose treatment regimens, as this may reduce the devel- opment of RIF tolerance (107). Fourth, PZA is highlighted as a complementary and synergistic companion drug in various treatment regimens (113, 115, 116, 130). An understanding of how PZA targets tolerant bacterial populations would be of great valueforthedevelopmentofdrugsthattargettolerantM.tuberculosis(131).Finally,the observation that the development of tolerance to BDQ may be inhibited by the administration of BDQ in combination with PTM (123) is of interest, especially given therecentlyapprovedNix-TBregimen(PTMplusBDQandlinezolid)forthetreatment ofdifficult-to-treatMDRandXDRstrains(132,133). AbetterunderstandingofthetolerancemechanismsusedbyM.tuberculosisunder drugpressurecouldthusresultintheidentificationofnovelorrepurposeddrugsthat enable intelligent regimen design to avoid tolerance to core drugs used in the treatmentofTB.Thepreventionofthedevelopmentofdrugtolerancecouldcomple- mentcurrentapproachestotreatmentshortening,asthepreventionoftheacquisition of tolerance could reduce the duration of infectiousness, decrease relapse rates, and reducetheriskofthedevelopmentofdrugresistance.Anumberofinterestinggenes and hypothetical proteins have already been identified (65, 92–94, 134), and future studiescouldresultintheidentificationofadditionalnovelagents.Forexample,one couldinvestigatetheuseofWhiB3andWhiB7inhibitorstoincreasetheefficacyof drugs that are currently prone to the effects of WhiB3 and WhiB7, or one could employ antibiotics that cannot be detected by these WhiB regulators (30, 31). Cotreatment with mycobacterial efflux pump inhibitors (such as verapamil) could limitintrinsicresistanceinducedbyeffluxpumps(87,126,135–138),anddrugsthat target sigma factors may also be of interest for the optimization of TB treatment (139). Finally, the use of repurposed drugs that target slow-growing and dormant bacteria, such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and nitroimidazopyrans, should be investigated (140, 141). LimitationsofCurrentStudies The experimental studies that we review share several limitations. First, while the hypothesisoftheexistenceofatolerantphenotypicstateinM.tuberculosisisdrivenby the clinical observation of heterogeneous treatment response dynamics between patients,moststudieshavebeenperformedonlaboratoryM.tuberculosisstrains.The few studies that used clinical samples to study the adaptation of M. tuberculosis to antibioticstressincludedasmallnumberofpatients(n(cid:3)12)(59,142–145),limitingthe ability to examine the diverse responses that M. tuberculosis exhibits in response to drugpressureandrestrictingassessmentsoftherelativeimportanceofpathogenand hostfactorssuchasHIVstatus,smokingstatus,andthepresenceoflungcavitiesinthe response to treatment. Second, most studies performed transcriptomics experiments. Studyingatransientphenomenonsuchastoleranceusingtranscriptomicsisdifficult,as the results of RNA expression profiling analyses likely depend on environmental and growth conditions, and transcriptional profiles observed under culture conditions might not be representative of what is
