REVIEW
KEYWORDS: tuberculosis, drug, tolerance, inh, rif, metabolic, stress, reduced, drugs, treatment, expression, response, bdq, cell, metabolism


experiments. Studyingatransientphenomenonsuchastoleranceusingtranscriptomicsisdifficult,as the results of RNA expression profiling analyses likely depend on environmental and growth conditions, and transcriptional profiles observed under culture conditions might not be representative of what is truly happening in the host. Conflicting data between transcriptomic studies may thus be due to the conditions under which the experiments were performed. For example, the conflicting data on the differential expressionofkatGuponINHexposurecouldbeduetothestudyofM.tuberculosisin thestationaryphaseinonestudycomparedtothestudyofextractedRNAfromsputum samplesconservedat(cid:4)80°Cwithin2haftercollectioninanotherstudy(27,101).Third, January2021 Volume34 Issue1 e00141-20 cmr.asm.org 14 M.tuberculosisDrugTolerance ClinicalMicrobiologyReviews disentangling whether the observed mycobacterial transcriptional responses upon drug pressure are generated by drug pressure, immune pressure, or the selection of preexistingbacterialsubpopulationsischallenging.Furthermore,otherenvironmental triggers such as biofilm formation, hypoxic stress, and nutrient starvation have been associatedwithdrugtoleranceandmightshareunderlyingmechanismsprovokedby drugexposure(146,147).Furtherexperimentalworkinvestigatingtheroleofdifferent microenvironments in the selection versus the creation of slow-growing subpopula- tionsupondrugpressureisthusofinterest.Fourth,moststudiesappliedasingleomics approach,mainlytranscriptomics.Thislimitsourunderstandingoftherelativecontri- butions of genetics, epigenetics, and proteomics to tolerance. Methylation-mediated pathway regulation has been shown to play a role in antibiotic stress survival inE. coli (148). The contribution of epigenetic mechanisms to the acquisition of toler- ance in M. tuberculosis has not yet been investigated, as most epigenetic research in the field of tuberculosis has focused on host epigenetics and has linked host epigenetics to M. tuberculosis survival in the host and drug resistance (149–151). Fewstudieshaveassessedthecomplement,i.e.,howtheM.tuberculosisepigenome is used as a mechanism to evade bacterial killing (149–151). In addition to epige- netics, proteomics could be important for the study of tolerance, as the functional changesinexpressedproteinsultimatelyresultinthephenotypicallytolerantstate (152).Nevertheless,onlyafewinvestigatorshaveappliedaproteomicsapproachto the study of drug tolerance in M. tuberculosis (62–64, 153). Finally, while mecha- nisms such as thickening of the cell wall and increased efflux pump activity are sensu stricto mechanisms of resistance as they increase the MIC, we include these types of innate or intrinsic resistance under mechanisms that generate a drug- tolerantphenotypeastheyareverydifferentfromtheclassicalmechanismsofdrug resistance conferred by genomic variants in resistance-conferring genes such as rpoB, katG, gyrA, and others. CONCLUSION When the bacillus is under drug pressure, a myriad of mechanisms is used by M. tuberculosistoadapttothestressofexposuretodrugsandacquireadrug-tolerantM. tuberculosisstateacrossdrugclassesorspecifictoonedrug.Themainmechanismsare metabolicslowdown,metabolicshifting,cellwallthickening,andupregulationofefflux pumps, whereas drug-specific tolerance mechanisms aim to overcome or counteract theactionofthedrug.Futureresearch,includingmulti-omicsapproachesandclinical translational studies of the fundamental processes of M. tuberculosis tolerance, is needed. The knowledge generated could then result in the identification of novel strategies that target or prevent the acquisition of drug-tolerant M. tuberculosis pop- ulations.Thiscouldacceleratebacillaryclearance,whichinturnwouldleadtoashorter duration of infectiousness, a lower risk of the acquisition of drug resistance, and reduced inflammation and lung tissue damage. Such novel tolerance-targeting ap- proachescouldcomplementthetreatment-shorteningstrategiesthatarealreadybeing investigated. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS ThisworkwassupportedbytheResearchFoundationFlanders(FWO)undergrant no. G0F8316N (FWO Odysseus). S.L.S. is funded by the South African Research Chairs Initiative of
