Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors Related Endocrine Adverse Events
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, diabetes, free, pd-, icis, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, immune, cells, therapy, hypophysitis


ABSTRACT Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) are currently used for the treatment of various types of cancers. Despite the important clinical benefits, these medications can lead to a spectrum of side effects called immune-related adverse events (irAEs). Endocrine irAEs are among the most common irAEs that have been reported in clinical trials and post-marketing settings with an overall incidence of around 10% of patients treated with ICIs. These include hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, hypophysitis, primary adrenal insufficiency, insulin‐deficient diabetes mellitus, hypogonadism, hypoparathyroidism, hypocalcemia, and other less commonly reported side effects. The symptoms can sometimes be nonspecific but life-threatening. Hence, physicians should be aware of the endocrine irAEs which can occur anytime during treatment or even after discontinuation of the medications. In this chapter, we will be discussing in detail the ICI-related endocrine irAEs and their management. In addition, we will be suggesting an algorithm to be used in the clinical setting for screening and monitoring of the endocrine iRAEs. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) are currently approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of various types of cancers and have significantly improved clinical outcomes and survival. Antigen-presenting cells (APCs) process and express antigens (including tumor antigens) on major histocompatibility complexes recognized by receptors on T cells, which then stimulates a cascade either to kill the cell expressing the antigen (via CD8+ effector/cytotoxic T cells) or recruit other components of the immune system (via CD4+ helper cells) ( 1 ). Many of the ligands presented by the APCs can bind to multiple receptors and deliver stimulatory or inhibitory signals, the latter being referred to as immune checkpoints. Various ligand-receptor interactions between antigen-presenting cells and T cells regulate the T cell response to the antigen ( Figure 1 ). Agonists of stimulatory receptors or antagonists of inhibitory signals can result in amplification of antigen-specific T-cell responses ( 2 ). Cancer cells can develop tolerance to the immune system by upregulating the expression of immune checkpoint molecules like programmed cell death ligand (PD-L1) leading to peripheral T cell exhaustion or lose surface antigen expression leading to immunologic escape. ICIs help overcoming this tolerance by inhibiting the checkpoints and these inhibitory compounds currently used in pharmacologic intervention target three ligands/receptors- CTLA-4, PD-1, and PD-L1 ( 3 ). Cytotoxic T-Lymphocyte-Associated Protein 4 (CTLA-4) Inhibitors CTLA-4 was
