Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors Related Endocrine Adverse Events
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, diabetes, free, pd-, icis, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, immune, cells, therapy, hypophysitis


inhibiting the checkpoints and these inhibitory compounds currently used in pharmacologic intervention target three ligands/receptors- CTLA-4, PD-1, and PD-L1 ( 3 ). Cytotoxic T-Lymphocyte-Associated Protein 4 (CTLA-4) Inhibitors CTLA-4 was first described by Leach et. al. in 1996 as a receptor on T cells ( 3 ), where it acts as a physiologic brake on the T-cell activation. It competes with the CD28 stimulatory receptor present on T cells ( 1 ). Both bind CD80 and CD86 ligands (also known as B7.1 and B7.2 respectively, collectively as B7) seen on APCs, but CTLA-4 has a 500-2500 times higher affinity for these ligands than CD28 does. Blocking CTLA-4: B7 interactions favors CD28:B7 interactions, which results in proliferation of T cells, increased T cell survival, activation of T effector cells, and increased diversity of T cell responses on tumors. This is the basis of CTLA-4 inhibitor therapy with ipilimumab (trade name Yervoy) and tremelimumab ( 4 , 5 ). Programmed Death-1 (PD-1) and Programmed Death-Ligand 1 (PD-L1) Inhibitors PD-1 receptors on the T cell interact with PD-L1 (another member of the B7 family) and inhibit T-cell expression and decrease expression of proinflammatory cytokines such as interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), and interleukin -2 (IL-2) similar to CTLA-4. PD-L1 is found on leukocytes, nonlymphoid tissue, and tumor cells and modulates CD8+ T cell function ( 1 ). PD-L1 is aberrantly expressed on many cancers, including lung, ovary, colon, head and neck, and breast ( 6 ) and results in tumor cells evading the immune system ( 7 ). Inhibition of PD-1: PD-L1 interaction increases the number of T cells and inflammatory markers at tumor sites, creating an environment more conducive to tumor suppression. Drugs that target PD-1 include pembrolizumab (Keytruda), nivolumab (Opdivo), and dostarlimab (Jemperli) while PD-L1 inhibitors include atezolizumab (Tecentriq), avelumab (Bevancio), and Durvalumab (Imfinzi). PDL-2 is expressed on dendritic cells, monocytes, and mast cells and modulates CD4+ function. Figure 1. Interactions between antigen-presenting cells (APCs) and T cells that regulate T-cell responses. From DM Pardoll ( 2 ) IMMUNE RELATED ADVERSE EVENTS (IRAES) Immune checkpoints normally inhibit the function of T cells, which helps prevent autoimmunity but can also benefit cancer cells. ICIs prevent the apoptosis and downregulation of T cells, which allows the immune system to naturally fight malignant cells. Despite the important clinical benefits, this unique mechanism of action itself can lead to a spectrum of side effects
