Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors Related Endocrine Adverse Events
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, diabetes, free, pd-, icis, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, immune, cells, therapy, hypophysitis


cells, which allows the immune system to naturally fight malignant cells. Despite the important clinical benefits, this unique mechanism of action itself can lead to a spectrum of side effects called immune-related adverse events (irAEs). Endocrine irAEs are among the most common irAEs that have been reported in clinical trials and post-marketing settings with a meta-analysis of 38 randomized trials showing an overall incidence of endocrinopathies among 10% of patients treated with ICIs ( 8 ). These include hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, hypophysitis, primary adrenal insufficiency (PAI), and insulin‐deficient diabetes mellitus. Median time to onset of moderate to severe endocrinopathy is 1.75-5 months with ipilimumab and 1.4-4.9 months for any endocrinopathy with PD-1 inhibitors ( 9 , 10 ). Patients with pre-existing autoimmune disorders are at higher risk of exacerbation of the autoimmune condition as well as development of an unrelated irAEs ( 11 ). Multiple large prospective studies and meta-analyses showed that irAEs are associated with improved treatment outcomes suggesting the activated immune system is also concurrently targeting the cancer ( 12 - 14 ). Hence, the general principle of management of irAEs is to control symptoms with minimum amount of immunosuppression. In this article, we will be discussing in detail the ICI-related endocrine irAEs and its management. We will be suggesting algorithm for screening, monitoring and treatment of the patients and we will be listing a summary of the side effects grading system and incidence in different ICI. ( Figure 2 - 4 , Table 3 - 4 ). Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor Induced Thyroid Diseases ICI-mediated thyroid disease is one of the common endocrine irAEs. It can manifest as primary hypothyroidism secondary to destructive thyroiditis or as hyperthyroidism due to Graves' disease. HYPOTHYROIDISM ICI-mediated hypothyroidism can present as primary or secondary hypothyroidism (secondary to hypophysitis, which is discussed below). Primary hypothyroidism usually ensues after an occurrence of ICI-induced thyrotoxicosis. In a study by Abdel-Rahman et. al., authors found a higher risk of all-grade hypothyroidism compared to hyperthyroidism associated with ICIs therapy ( 15 ). Incidence The incidence of hypothyroidism with the use of immune checkpoint inhibitors varies based on the type of immune checkpoint inhibitors used and monotherapy vs combination therapy. In the largest meta-analysis of 38 randomized control trials comprising 7551 patients, the overall incidence of hypothyroidism was found to be 6.6%. The incidence of hypothyroidism ranged from 3.8% with ipilimumab to 13.2% (95% CI, 6.9%-23.8%) with combination therapy
