Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors Related Endocrine Adverse Events
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, diabetes, free, pd-, icis, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, immune, cells, therapy, hypophysitis


comprising 7551 patients, the overall incidence of hypothyroidism was found to be 6.6%. The incidence of hypothyroidism ranged from 3.8% with ipilimumab to 13.2% (95% CI, 6.9%-23.8%) with combination therapy ( 8 ). Various other studies have also found similar findings of higher incidence of hypothyroidism with the use of PD-1 inhibitors (7-21%) compared to CTLA-4 inhibitor (0-6%) ipilimumab ( 16 ). Pathophysiology Anti-thyroid antibodies are often absent in ICI-associated hypothyroidism, suggesting a role of cell-mediated rather than humoral autoimmunity ( 17 ). In addition, some studies have suggested an increased risk of ICI-induced thyroid dysfunction among patients with pre-existing anti-thyroid antibodies compared to those without these antibodies suggesting unmasking of autoimmune destruction with the use of ICIs ( 18 , 19 ). The complete pathophysiology behind the development of thyroid dysfunction is not completely understood, but increased cytokine levels following anti-PD1 therapy have been found to correlate with thyroid dysfunction ( 20 ). Fine-needle aspiration biopsy obtained during active ICI-induced thyroiditis showed lymphocytic infiltrate along with CD163+ histiocytes ( 21 ). Clinical Characteristics The median time to thyroid dysfunction following initiation of ICIs is 6 weeks and most of the patients develop biochemical hypothyroidism ( 22 ). Nonetheless, thyroid dysfunction can happen at any time during therapy. Most of the patient are asymptomatic or have very few symptoms. Common presenting symptoms include fatigue, depressed mood, mild weight gain, and constipation however with severe hypothyroidism, the patient can present with altered mental status ( 23 ). Screening and Monitoring Thyroid function tests should be performed in all the patients receiving ICIs, by measuring TSH (thyroid stimulating hormone) and free T4 (free thyroxine). In the setting of abnormal thyroid function tests, routine monitoring is recommended at 4-6 weeks or more frequently if clinically indicated. However, in presence of normal thyroid function tests, the frequency could be increased to every 12-18 weeks. ICI-induced hypothyroidism is diagnosed by the presence of elevated TSH and decreased free T4. However, TSH is the more sensitive and preferred test. Currently, anti-thyroid antibodies have not been proven to be helpful in the screening and treatment of these patients. For patients who have subclinical hypothyroidism (elevated TSH and normal Free T4), routine monitoring is recommended while continuing treatment with immunotherapy. Treatment The diagnosis of primary hypothyroidism is based on elevated TSH (>10 mIU/L) and low free T4 along with clinical symptoms. Once the diagnosis is established, treatment is
