Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors Related Endocrine Adverse Events
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, diabetes, free, pd-, icis, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, immune, cells, therapy, hypophysitis


with immunotherapy. Treatment The diagnosis of primary hypothyroidism is based on elevated TSH (>10 mIU/L) and low free T4 along with clinical symptoms. Once the diagnosis is established, treatment is recommended with levothyroxine supplementation. For young patients with TSH >10 and low free T4, a full replacement dose at 1.6 mcg/kg should be considered. However, in elderly patients or among patients with cardiovascular comorbidities, a lower starting dose of 50 mcg is recommended. The dose should be changed by ~10% every 4-6 weeks to achieve reference range or age-appropriate range TSH and free T4. ICIs are usually continued while treating hypothyroidism with mild to moderate symptoms ( 24 , 25 ). Although the guidelines to diagnose and treat ICI–associated primary hypothyroidism is well established, the recommendations for the management of patients with subclinical hypothyroidism (mildly elevated TSH with normal free T4) is not well established and should be based on the patient’s symptoms, age, and co-morbid conditions ( 26 , 27 ). THYROTOXICOSIS ICI-mediated thyrotoxicosis can present as transient thyrotoxicosis or persistent hyperthyroidism. Transient thyrotoxicosis is far more common among patients treated with ICIs and is often followed by primary hypothyroidism; persistent hyperthyroidism is less frequent. Hyperthyroidism is more commonly reported with combination therapy and is rare with PD-L1 inhibitors. Patients with hyperthyroidism can be symptomatic and need supportive care with beta-blockers and anti-thyroid medications in some cases. Incidence The prevalence of ICI-associated transient thyrotoxicosis has varied significantly among the studies and can range from 3.0-9.0% ( 23 , 28 ) and is followed by primary hypothyroidism ( 8 ). The incidence of transient thyrotoxicosis is higher among patients treated with combination therapy compared to monotherapy with anti-PD1 or anti-PD-L1 therapy ( 23 ). In the largest to date meta-analysis, the overall incidence of hyperthyroidism was estimated to be 2.9%. The incidence of hyperthyroidism ranged from 0.6% with the PD-L1 inhibitor to 8.0% with combination therapy. Combination therapy was found to have an increased risk of higher-grade hyperthyroidism compared to monotherapy. Moreover, the risk of hyperthyroidism was greater with PD-1 inhibitors compared to PD-L1 inhibitors ( 8 ). ICI-induced Graves’ disease is extremely rare, with only a few reported cases in the literature ( 29 ). Pathophysiology The pathophysiology of ICI-thyrotoxicosis remains poorly understood. Autoimmunity is believed to play a critical role in leading to thyroiditis among patients treated with ICIs. In one study, combination ICI therapy (ipilimumab and nivolumab)
