Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors Related Endocrine Adverse Events
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, diabetes, free, pd-, icis, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, immune, cells, therapy, hypophysitis


ICI-thyrotoxicosis remains poorly understood. Autoimmunity is believed to play a critical role in leading to thyroiditis among patients treated with ICIs. In one study, combination ICI therapy (ipilimumab and nivolumab) resulted in a more robust antibody response compared to monotherapy with nivolumab, leading to faster destruction of the thyroid ( 30 ). Moreover, patients with elevated anti-TPO or antithyroglobulin antibodies required a higher dose of levothyroxine compared to those who did not have elevated antibodies. In addition to antibody-mediated thyroid destruction, circulating CD56, CD16, and natural killer cells have been implicated in the development of pembrolizumab-induced thyroiditis in one study ( 17 ). Another study found an association between PD-L1 and PD-L2 expression on the thyroid gland and destructive thyroiditis ( 31 ). Worsening of pre-existing autoimmune thyroid disease and subclinical hypothyroidism in patients treated with ICIs have also been reported, suggesting synergistic roles of autoimmunity and inflammatory mechanisms ( 30 ). Clinical Characteristics Most patients with thyrotoxicosis are asymptomatic or present with symptoms such as palpitation, agitation, anxiety, and insomnia ( 23 ). Although uncommon, ICI-induced Graves' disease following use of CTLA-4-inhibitor and PD1-inhibitors have also been reported and can be associated with graves orbitopathy ( 23 ). Graves’ orbitopathy can occur with and without TRAb antibodies among patients treated with ICIs ( 29 ). ICI-induced thyroid storm is extremely rare and has only been reported a few times in the literature ( 32 , 33 ). Toxic autonomous nodules or toxic multinodular goiter is not associated with ICIs and if seen among patients treated with ICIs, should be considered a co-incidental finding ( 23 ). Screening and Monitoring Screening of ICI-induced thyrotoxicosis is performed by TSH and free T4. Thyrotoxicosis is defined as suppressed TSH and it can either be (i) clinical when free T4 is elevated or (ii) subclinical when free T4 is normal. The most common cause of ICI-induced thyrotoxicosis is thyroiditis, which is due to the destruction of thyroid follicular cells with the release of preformed thyroid hormone. This is often associated with transient thyrotoxicosis and eventually progresses to hypothyroidism in the majority (50 to 90%) of the cases ( 22 , 28 ). Hence, monitoring of TFTs with TSH and free T4 every 4-6 weeks is recommended. The usual duration of thyrotoxicosis with ICIs is about 4-6 weeks ( 30 , 34 ) and if thyrotoxicosis persists beyond this period, evaluation for Graves’ disease
