Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors Related Endocrine Adverse Events
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, diabetes, free, pd-, icis, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, immune, cells, therapy, hypophysitis


weeks is recommended. The usual duration of thyrotoxicosis with ICIs is about 4-6 weeks ( 30 , 34 ) and if thyrotoxicosis persists beyond this period, evaluation for Graves’ disease should be considered by checking thyroid-stimulating hormone receptor antibody (TRAb) or thyroid-stimulating immunoglobulin (TSI) or a thyroid uptake scan ( 28 )( Figure 2 ). Treatment For patients with minimal symptoms of thyroiditis-associated thyrotoxicosis, and presence of suppressed TSH and elevated free T4, supportive treatment with non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol should be considered ( 24 ). When propranolol is used, the recommended dose is 10-20 mg every 4 to 6 hours for symptomatic management and until thyrotoxicosis resolves. As most of the time, patients with ICI-induced thyrotoxicosis progress to develop primary hypothyroidism (defined by elevated TSH levels), further treatment with thyroid hormone replacement should be considered. However, in the minority of cases (such as prominent initial symptoms, significantly elevated free T4 levels, signs of Graves’ orbitopathy, or persistent thyrotoxicosis), further evaluation and treatment for Graves’ disease should be considered ( 30 , 34 ). Graves’ disease should be treated with anti-thyroid medications, radioactive iodine, or surgery depending on the clinical setting and patient preference ( 35 ). Rarely, patients can develop thyroid storm and high-dose steroids should be used in conjunction with standard management among these patients ( 34 ). If asymptomatic or only mildly symptomatic, continuation of ICIs is recommended ( 24 , 25 ). Figure 2. Algorithm suggested to diagnose and treat ICI thyroid disease. Hypophysitis Hypophysitis is one of the more common endocrine side effects reported with the use of ICIs particularly with CTLA-4 antibodies and combination therapy including both CTLA-4 and PD1 or PD-L1 inhibitors. It is less likely with PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitor monotherapy. Hypophysitis is characterized by infiltration and inflammation of the pituitary gland. It can occur in the first few weeks of treatment with frequent hormonal deficiencies at the time of diagnosis. Pituitary enlargement is considered both a highly sensitive and specific indicator of hypophysitis after ruling out metastatic disease. Moreover, the symptoms of hypophysitis can sometimes be non-specific, hence the importance of close monitoring of these patients for early diagnosis and prompt treatment ( 36 , 37 ). INCIDENCE Hypophysitis estimated incidence was one in nine million people per year ( 38 ). ICI-induced hypophysitis has been reported in 0-17% of ICI-treated patients. Some studies showed the incidence increased up to
