Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors Related Endocrine Adverse Events
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, diabetes, free, pd-, icis, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, immune, cells, therapy, hypophysitis


incidence was one in nine million people per year ( 38 ). ICI-induced hypophysitis has been reported in 0-17% of ICI-treated patients. Some studies showed the incidence increased up to 25% while using higher doses of ipilimumab of 10 mg/kg ( 36 , 37 , 39 ). There have been some variations in the observed incidence rate of ICI-induced hypophysitis which has been attributed to not only the dose of the medication but also to the difference in the use, the intensity, and the frequency of hormonal monitoring, in addition to clinical awareness of and suspicion for the condition ( 37 , 40 ). Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) is one of the most common hormone deficiencies in hypophysitis. In a study of ipilimumab-induced hypophysitis, 80% had central adrenal insufficiency. Lu et. al. found hypophysitis occurred in 3.25% of patients using ICIs. Of these, it was more common with combination therapy at 7.68% followed by anti-CTLA-4 at 4.53% then anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1 at less than 1% of cases ( 41 ). Chang et. al. found the combination of ipilimumab (anti-CTLA-4) and nivolumab (anti-PD-1) caused hypophysitis in 6.4% of patients. Incidence of anti-CTLA-4 alone was 3.2%, anti-PD-1 alone is 0.4%, and anti-PD-L1 alone was 0.1% ( 42 ). Overall, the evidence suggests that combination therapy and anti-CTLA-4 have the highest incidence of hypophysitis, while anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1 are less common causes of hypophysitis. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY The actual pathogenesis is not well defined. Since many patients had no previous immune-related disease before the development of ICI-associated hypophysitis, it was suggested that this condition is not triggered by a pre-existing immune condition. Hypophysitis was initially considered a specific irAE of ipilimumab considering the presence of pituitary expression of CTLA-4 antigens in the TSH, follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), ACTH, and prolactin-secreting cells. Now more recent data suggested that it can occur with any ICI target (CTLA-4, PD-1, or PD-L1) ( 43 , 44 ). Garon Czmin et. al. reported that the time to develop hypophysitis following initiation of ICIs was significantly shorter with ipilimumab alone or combined with nivolumab (83 days) compared to nivolumab or pembrolizumab alone (165 days). Moreover, ICI-associated hypophysitis is more common in men while autoimmune lymphocytic hypophysitis has a higher prevalence in the female population ( 43 , 45 ). In one study, hypophysitis with anti-CTLA was four times more common in males compared to females. This may be related to more men
