Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors Related Endocrine Adverse Events
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, diabetes, free, pd-, icis, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, immune, cells, therapy, hypophysitis


female population ( 43 , 45 ). In one study, hypophysitis with anti-CTLA was four times more common in males compared to females. This may be related to more men having melanoma, but studies controlling for this factor have found similar results ( 42 ). Corticotrophs and thyrotrophs are the most common cell types affected while gonadotroph deficiency was more common in male patients. The somatotroph axis and prolactin levels were rarely involved ( 36 ). CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS Hypophysitis can occur weeks to months after the initiation of ICIs. In the study by Albarel et. al., mean hypophysitis occurred at 9-9.5 weeks ± 6 weeks after the treatment initiation with a mean age at diagnosis of 55.2 years ( 36 ). The initial symptoms are usually related to tumor mass or hormone deficiencies, and rarely visual disturbance or diabetes insipidus. Symptoms may be acute or subacute, but they are usually nonspecific, including headaches, anorexia, dizziness, nausea, weight loss, and/ or fatigue. More serious signs are hypotension, lethargy, confusion, and electrolyte abnormalities including hyponatremia. Hyponatremia occurs due to increased antidiuretic hormone (ADH) stimulated by hypothalamic secretion of CRH. The most common hormone deficiencies include TSH, ACTH, FSH, luteinizing hormone (LH). Panhypopituitarism is less likely to happen. Although hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and central hypothyroidism may resolve, central adrenal insufficiency is permanent requiring lifelong treatment ( 36 , 42 ). Although, hypo enhancing lesions in the anterior pituitary are characteristic of ICI-associated hypophysitis, a few cases of PD-1/PD-L1 induced-hypophysitis have been reported in the absence of any radiographic abnormalities and just on clinical grounds ( 46 ). This suggests that PD-1/PD-L1 may not always show classic pituitary enlargement or enhancement on MRI ( 47 ). SCREENING AND MONITORING The National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines recommend initial serum pituitary hormonal evaluation including morning cortisol, ACTH, TSH, FT3, LH, FSH, testosterone in men, estrogen in premenopausal women, prolactin, growth hormone, and IGF1. The sodium and potassium levels should also be checked. Cosyntropin stimulation test can be normal in acute secondary adrenal insufficiency. Diagnostics radiology reports of brain MRIs in patients receiving ICIs should routinely include comparisons of pituitary size with prior studies. In case of suspected hypophysitis, a dedicated pituitary MRI is recommended. MRI usually showed a pituitary enlargement with or without mass effect however some cases showed pituitary adenoma, empty sella syndrome, or a normal pituitary gland on the imaging studies. TREATMENT Once high
