Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors Related Endocrine Adverse Events
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, diabetes, free, pd-, icis, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, immune, cells, therapy, hypophysitis


showed a pituitary enlargement with or without mass effect however some cases showed pituitary adenoma, empty sella syndrome, or a normal pituitary gland on the imaging studies. TREATMENT Once high suspicion for ICI-induced hypophysitis, an endocrinology consult is recommended. High-dose glucocorticoids should be initiated for patients with ipilimumab-induced hypophysitis who have serious mass-effect-related symptoms, such as severe headache, visual-field disturbance, or simultaneously the presence of other irAEs. Patients should be started on methylprednisolone/prednisone at 1-2 mg/kg /day until symptoms resolve, typically 1-2 weeks then taper the steroids rapidly to a physiological dose. In patients without mass effect, studies have suggested that high dose glucocorticoid therapy was not associated with improved outcomes in patients nor change in the natural history of hypophysitis, thus physiological replacement doses can be considered in these patients ( 28 , 36 , 48 ). ICIs should be held until acute symptoms or symptoms related to mass effect have resolved and hormone replacement is initiated ( 42 ). One study compared discontinuing ipilimumab to restarting ipilimumab and found no effect on the resolution of hypophysitis ( 42 ). In the case of central hypothyroidism, replacement should be started after steroids are initiated. Testosterone and estrogen replacement should be considered in patients with central hypogonadism after discussing the risks and benefits of the medications ( 28 ). Adrenalitis Primary adrenal insufficiency (PAI), although being a rare endocrine irAEs is a potentially serious condition with significant morbidity and mortality if not identified early. Metastasis to the adrenal gland should be excluded. Other causes of adrenal insufficiency include sudden withdrawal of glucocorticoids and central adrenal insufficiency related to hypophysitis ( 49 ). INCIDENCE PAI is a rare side effect of ICIs, but early identification is essential given the risk of severe outcomes including death. Early evidence of adrenal insufficiency from ICIs came from case reports, but increasingly more evidence is available from larger studies and meta-analyses ( 50 ). A review and meta-analysis by Barroso-Sousa et. al. that included 62 studies with 5831 patients, found the incidence of PAI was 0.7% for single ICI and 4.2% for combinations of ICIs ( 8 ). Another review and meta-analysis by Lu et. al. that included 160 studies and 40,432 patients, examined the rate of pituitary-adrenal dysfunction but did not distinguish the cause of adrenal insufficiency. One complicating factor in the study of PAI is that similar symptoms could occur from hypophysitis or
