Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors Related Endocrine Adverse Events
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, diabetes, free, pd-, icis, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, immune, cells, therapy, hypophysitis


rate of pituitary-adrenal dysfunction but did not distinguish the cause of adrenal insufficiency. One complicating factor in the study of PAI is that similar symptoms could occur from hypophysitis or discontinuation of steroids ( 41 ). Lu et. al. found adrenal insufficiency occurred in patients on ICIs in 2.43% of cases (ranging from 0-6.4% in studies) with serious grade adrenal effects in 0.15% of cases (ranging from 0-3.3%). Anti-CTLA-4 was associated with higher rates of adrenal insufficiency at 5.32% and serious grade events at 0.42%. Combination therapy also resulted in higher rates of adrenal insufficiency at 4.05%. Anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1 accounted for a smaller proportion of events at 0.49% and 0.43% respectively ( 41 ). Grouthier et. al. used the World Health Organization global database, VigiBase, to examine individual safety reports for PAI and ICIs ( 4 ). The study found 451 cases of PAI, of which 45 were definite PAI and 406 possible PAI. In the study, 90% of cases involved significant morbidity including prolonged hospitalization, life-threatening illness, and disability. The mortality rate was 7.3%. Importantly the mortality rate appeared to be similar across immunotherapy treatments and combination treatments ( 4 ). This suggests that despite a relatively low incidence rate of PAI from ICIs, providers need to be able to identify these cases to prevent the significant risk of morbidity and mortality. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY PAI is most frequently caused by autoimmune adrenal insufficiency (AI). Autoimmune AI is seen predominantly in women who make up between 54% to 83% of cases. In contrast, males accounted for the majority of ICI-related PAI cases at 58%, while females accounted for 36% of cases. In the remaining 6%, sex was unspecified. Autoimmune AI generally occurs between 30 to 50 years of age. In contrast, the age of onset with PAI caused by ICIs was 66 years on average with a range of 30-95 years old ( 1 ). In autoimmune AI, antibodies to the adrenal cortex including anti-21-hydroxylase are found in 83% to 88% of cases ( 4 ). The same antibodies have been found in case reports of ICI-related PAI ( 42 ). Adrenal metastasis should be excluded during the workup of adrenal insufficiency. CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS Symptoms of PAI related to ICIs are similar to PAI from other causes. Symptoms include fatigue, postural dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anorexia, weight loss, and abdominal pain. Adrenal crisis is suggested by altered mental status, weakness, syncope,
