Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors Related Endocrine Adverse Events
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, diabetes, free, pd-, icis, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, immune, cells, therapy, hypophysitis


are similar to PAI from other causes. Symptoms include fatigue, postural dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anorexia, weight loss, and abdominal pain. Adrenal crisis is suggested by altered mental status, weakness, syncope, nausea, and vomiting ( 42 ). In 52% of cases, other irAEs were also present. Other endocrinopathies made up 14.9% of these irAEs. The median time to onset was 120 days (ranging from 6-576 days) from starting the ICIs ( 4 ). Lab findings include hyponatremia, hyperkalemia, hypoglycemia, hypercalcemia, low aldosterone, elevated renin, elevated ACTH, and low to low normal cortisol. Imaging may reveal adrenalitis with enlarged adrenal glands. Interestingly, one case report found imaging evidence of adrenalitis present on a positron emission tomography (PET) scan after starting ipilimumab, but no symptoms or biochemical evidence of adrenal insufficiency. Repeat imaging revealed normal adrenal glands months later. This case suggests adrenalitis may occur without adrenal insufficiency ( 42 ). SCREENING AND MONITORING The NCCN guidelines recommend checking morning cortisol before each treatment or every four weeks during treatment. Additionally, follow-up testing is recommended for an additional six to twelve weeks. If cortisol is low or subnormal, ACTH monitoring is recommended. To monitor for pituitary and thyroid dysfunction, TSH and T4 monitoring at similar intervals are also recommended ( 28 ). In a review by Chang et. al., monitoring was recommended only in symptomatic patients, but a low index for suspicion was recommended as symptoms are nonspecific. When a patient has suspicious symptoms for adrenal dysfunction, ACTH and cortisol should be obtained before corticosteroid treatment only if this can be done safely. Additionally, measuring renin and aldosterone is helpful to determine if mineralocorticoid deficiency is present. This can be particularly helpful as case reports of central and PAI coexisting have been reported. The utility of adrenal autoantibodies, including 21-hydroxylase, is not well-established ( 42 ). TREATMENT PAI caused by ICIs is treated the same as other causes of PAI. If adrenal crisis or other critical illness is present, stress dose steroids with 100mg IV then 50mg IV every six hours is initiated. In stable patients, 15-25mg hydrocortisone is started in divided doses. Fludrocortisone is used to treat mineralocorticoid deficiency in PAI starting at 0.5-1mg daily. Additionally, patients will need to be educated on sick day rules and be provided with medical alert bracelets, and have high-dose corticosteroids for emergency purposes ( 28 ). The other important aspect of treatment is the decision
