Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors Related Endocrine Adverse Events
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, diabetes, free, pd-, icis, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, immune, cells, therapy, hypophysitis


53 5.66 Hyperglycemia Avelumab Solid tumors Weber et. al. NEJM, 2017 ( 63 ) 2 452 0.44 Diabetes Nivolumab Melanoma Choueiri et. al. Lancet, 2018 ( 64 ) 7 55 12.7 Hyperglycemia Avelumab Renal cell Of note, most of the clinical trials in Table 1 excluded patients with a preexisting autoimmune condition, and some even excluded patients with a family history of autoimmunity. As these therapies are now being more widely used in clinical practice, there is an increased reporting of ICIs-induced diabetes ( 65 ). This is likely due to the increasing use of ICIs therapy and differences in patient populations between phase 2/3 clinical trials and clinical practice. Although T1D is a relatively rare occurrence with ICIs therapy, the events are clinically significant. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY The first case series reporting ICIs-induced autoimmune diabetes was described in 2015 ( 66 ). In this series of five patients, both humoral and cellular diabetes-associated autoimmunity were described. Some patients had positive T1D associated autoantibodies and diabetes-specific CD8+ T cells in the peripheral blood, consistent with findings from childhood-onset T1D ( 66 ). The role of the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway in preclinical animal models of T1D has been appreciated for over a decade. Non-obese-diabetic (NOD) mice develop spontaneous autoimmune diabetes so it has been used extensively as an animal model to understand the mechanisms of T1D development ( 67 ). NOD mice with a knockout of either PD-1 or PD-L1 (but not PD-L2) have accelerated onset of diabetes with lymphocytic infiltration of the pancreatic islets (e.g., insulitis) compared to mice with these immune regulatory molecules ( 68 , 69 ). Furthermore, administration of anti-PD-1 or PD-L1 monoclonal antibodies to NOD mice also accelerated the onset of T1D ( 70 ). When examining the islets in NOD mice, insulin-producing beta-cells express PD-L1 during the progression of autoimmune diabetes ( 71 ). Similar to NOD mice, human islets from T1D organ donors exhibit upregulation of PD-L1, which was strongly associated with insulitis ( 72 ). This likely represents a protective mechanism for beta-cells to lessen their autoimmune destruction. These studies may explain why anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapies induce T1D, while there is an absence of diabetes with anti-CTLA-4 therapy, whose ligands are CD80 and CD86 on antigen-presenting cells such as B cells, dendritic cells, and macrophages. CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS Over the last 4 years, cases have described rapid-onset insulin-dependent diabetes with undetectable C-peptide levels (a measure of residual beta-cell
