Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors Related Endocrine Adverse Events
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, diabetes, free, pd-, icis, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, immune, cells, therapy, hypophysitis


such as B cells, dendritic cells, and macrophages. CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS Over the last 4 years, cases have described rapid-onset insulin-dependent diabetes with undetectable C-peptide levels (a measure of residual beta-cell function) and both positive and negative T1D associated autoantibodies at presentation ( 73 , 74 ). Cases of ICIs-induced T1D have remained insulin-dependent even upon stopping therapy. Steroid treatment has not been able to reverse T1D, and as expected, blood glucose worsens with steroid administration ( 75 , 76 ). ICIs-induced T1D is mostly reported in older patients (50-70 years old) due to the nature of end-stage cancers developing later in life. More cases have been reported with anti-PD-1 therapies (nivolumab and pembrolizumab) as these agents were approved before monoclonal antibodies targeting anti-PD-L1 ( 51 , 66 , 73 , 74 , 77 ). Melanoma is the most common cancer in patients that present with ICIs-induced T1D, likely due to this being the first approved indication for ICIs therapy, and more patients with melanoma have been exposed to ICIs therapy compared to other cancer types. However, with the expanding indications and recent approval of ICIs therapy for use in pediatric cancers, ICIs-induced T1D may increase and present in younger individuals ( 78 ). METABOLIC FEATURES ICIs-induced T1D presents within days to a year after the initiation of PD-1 or PD-L1 therapy. HbA1c, which is a measure of the average blood glucose over the preceding three months, is generally lower than 10% at presentation with most patients presenting between 7 to 8%. As these values are mildly elevated, this suggests significant hyperglycemia over a short period rather than a gradual increase in hyperglycemia over a longer period. Most of the patients present with severe DKA that can be life-threatening. In most cases, C-peptide levels were inappropriately low for the presenting blood glucose or undetectable; ‘honeymoon’ periods tend to be absent after diagnosis. These observations suggest a destruction of beta-cell mass. In some patients, increased amylase and/or lipase has been reported, suggesting more generalized pancreatic inflammation ( 52 , 79 ). IMMUNOLOGIC FEATURES At least one T1D associated autoantibody, directed against insulin, glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), islet antigen-2 (IA-2), and zinc transporter 8 (ZnT8), was reported in 40-50% of the cases ( 52 , 79 ). Almost all antibody-positive cases had GADA antibodies; however, not all four major autoantibodies were reported or measured in these case series. It is speculated that there
