Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors Related Endocrine Adverse Events
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, diabetes, free, pd-, icis, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, immune, cells, therapy, hypophysitis


52 , 79 ). Almost all antibody-positive cases had GADA antibodies; however, not all four major autoantibodies were reported or measured in these case series. It is speculated that there is an association between antibody presence and earlier onset of ICIs-induced T1D in a subset of patients. In one case, positive conversion of antibodies after ICIs therapy was reported ( 52 ). Polyclonal and predominantly IgG 1 subclass for GADA was shown at the presentation of another case that developed T1D five days after the initiation of PD-1 inhibitor therapy. Since IgG antibodies are involved in memory immune response and the short time interval from the initiation of anti-PD-1 treatment to the onset of T1D, these antibodies were likely present before the start of therapy ( 51 ). Based on these findings, a subset of patients developing ICIs-induced T1D likely have preexisting T1D associated antibodies which may be an early form of latent autoimmune diabetes of adulthood (LADA); however, prospective studies measuring T1D associated antibodies before the start of ICIs therapy are needed to evaluate this hypothesis. GENETIC RISKS Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genes on chromosome 6 confer genetic risk for many autoimmune disorders including childhood-onset T1D ( 80 ). The polymorphic class II HLA genes (DQ, DR, and DP) confer this risk, especially the DR4-DQ8 and DR3-DQ2 haplotypes ( 81 , 82 ). Only a small number of cases with ICIs-induced T1D have reported HLA genes with some having T1D risk alleles. In one case series, the frequency of HLA-DR4 was found to be enriched in those with ICIs-induced T1D compared to rates among Caucasians in the US population ( 52 , 79 ). Further research is necessary to identify HLA and other genetic variants that may confer risk for ICIs-induced T1D. COMPARISON TO CHILDHOOD-ONSET TYPE 1 DIABETES We believe it is useful to compare the current knowledge of ICIs-induced T1D to prototypical childhood-onset T1D ( Table 2 ). The age of onset is distinctly different between the two types of diabetes. Presentation with DKA is more common and the onset of diabetes more rapid than traditional T1D. T1D associated autoantibodies are present in ~90% of children and adolescents with T1D compared to half of the reported cases in ICIs-induced T1D. There is a predominance of GAD autoantibodies at the presentation of ICIs-induced T1D; however, more research is needed to measure all four major T1D associated autoantibodies in these
