Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors Related Endocrine Adverse Events
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, diabetes, free, pd-, icis, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, immune, cells, therapy, hypophysitis


ICIs-induced T1D. There is a predominance of GAD autoantibodies at the presentation of ICIs-induced T1D; however, more research is needed to measure all four major T1D associated autoantibodies in these patients and those directed against post-translationally modified antigens may also reveal insights into the pathogenesis of the disorder. C-peptide levels are low or undetected in those treated with ICIs therapy that develops T1D compared to C-peptide levels that vary and gradually go down after the diagnosis of childhood T1D. As a corollary, the honeymoon phase is generally absent in ICIs-induced T1D ( 80 - 83 ). Table 2. Comparison Between Prototypical and Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor-Induced Type 1 Diabetes View in own window Characteristics Prototypical Type 1 Diabetes Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor-Induced Type 1 Diabetes Age of Onset Peak in early childhood & adolescence Later adulthood, 60’s Diabetic ketoacidosis at Onset Common Very common Pathophysiology Autoimmune (years) Autoimmune (days to months) Autoantibodies Present in 90-95% Present in ~50%* HLA Risk Genes ~90% 75-80% + C-peptide at presentation Varies Low/absent Honeymoon phase Present Absent * Predominantly GADA antibodies; + Small sample size, as not all cases report HLA alleles; there is an association with HLA-DR4 SCREENING AND MONITORING The most updated recommendation on screening for diabetes in patient receiving ICIss comes from 2018 American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) clinical practice guidelines, which recommends monitoring blood glucose at baseline, with each treatment cycle for 12 weeks and then every 3-6 weeks thereafter ( 24 ). In cases with suspected T1DM such as new onset hyperglycemia >200 mg/dl, random blood sugar >250 or history of T2DM with glucose levels >250 mg/dl, further testing for ketosis and anion gap is recommended ( 24 ). Discussing the risk of developing T1D with patients and educating them about the signs and symptoms of diabetes and DKA are recommended. Based on the current evidence, patients who have positive T1D associated antibodies and certain HLA alleles may have an increased risk to develop diabetes, so screening antibodies and reporting HLA alleles before the initiation of treatment may identify these patients with greater risk. A retrospective study evaluated fasting blood glucose levels of patients receiving ICIs treatment during patient visits and showed no detectable upward drift of glycemia before DKA presentation ( 83 ). This is likely due to the rapid onset and progression of ICI-induced T1D. However, we believe monitoring blood glucose and HbA1c levels during patient visits are
