Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors Related Endocrine Adverse Events
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, diabetes, free, pd-, icis, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, immune, cells, therapy, hypophysitis


presentation ( 83 ). This is likely due to the rapid onset and progression of ICI-induced T1D. However, we believe monitoring blood glucose and HbA1c levels during patient visits are still necessary. Considering the rapid onset of diabetes, this approach alone may miss a significant amount of hyperglycemia and DKA. We recommend routine self-monitoring of blood glucose by patients and/or using continuous glucose monitoring to recognize hyperglycemia before DKA presentation. Close monitoring of patients with preexisting autoimmunity may also be useful ( 51 ). Our suggested screening and monitoring algorithm is depicted in Figure 3 . Figure 3. Proposed algorithm to screen and manage patients for ICI-induced T1D. (DKA = diabetic ketoacidosis; HbA1c = Hemoglobin A1c, T1D= Type 1 diabetes, HLA = human leukocyte antigen, CGM = continuous glucose monitor) Hypogonadism The effects of ICIs on sexual function are not very well known. ICI-induced primary hypogonadism is rare but a life-changing side effect, as it can potentially lead to infertility. Notably, gonadal dysfunction has been reported for ipilimumab monotherapy or in combination with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors ( 84 ). The long-term effects are still largely unknown. ICI-induced male hypogonadism is characterized by a deficiency in testosterone, which can be due to testicular, hypothalamic, or pituitary abnormalities. ICI-associated hypophysitis is discussed separately, and this section will primarily focus on ICI-induced primary hypogonadism. INCIDENCE Although, ICI-associated hypogonadism can be seen in patients who develop panhypopituitarism secondary to ICI-associated hypophysitis, the true occurrence of primary hypogonadism is uncommon and is based on a few case reports and ongoing studies ( 84 - 86 ). A recent analysis of VigiBase, the WHO global database of individual case safety reports between 2011 and 2019, found only 1 case of primary hypogonadism ( 87 ). This surprisingly low incidence may in fact be due to lack of proper evaluation looking for primary hypogonadism. For example, many studies reporting occurrence of secondary hypogonadism lacked data on the levels of pituitary gonadotropins, FSH and LH, which is necessary to differentiate between primary and secondary hypogonadism ( 43 ). Moreover, the majority of the pivotal trials leading to FDA approval of ICIs lacked information regarding fertility, menopause status, sex hormone levels, or sexual health-related quality of life. Additionally, not much is known about ICI-associated infertility. In a study of patients with malignant melanoma treated with ICIs, 6 of 7 men (86%) with testicular autopsy tissue samples had impaired spermatogenesis (
