Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors Related Endocrine Adverse Events
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, diabetes, free, pd-, icis, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, immune, cells, therapy, hypophysitis


is known about ICI-associated infertility. In a study of patients with malignant melanoma treated with ICIs, 6 of 7 men (86%) with testicular autopsy tissue samples had impaired spermatogenesis ( 88 ). This may suggest higher prevalence of infertility among men receiving ICIs. No data on potential effects on female fertility are currently available. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY ICIs may cause irAEs affecting any organ in the body by blocking regulators of self-tolerance. The understanding of pathophysiologic mechanism of ICI-induced primary hypogonadism comes from limited number of cases reports ( 85 , 86 ). In the first case, the patient developed bilateral orchitis two weeks following administration of nivolumab and laboratory workup confirmed diagnosis of primary hypogonadism (decreased testosterone with elevated LH) ( 85 ). However, it self-resolved within one week without use of steroids or any other therapy, and there was no recurrence. The intensity and timing of the orchitis suggests an intense immune stimulation leading to orchitis and primary hypogonadism ( 85 ). In another case, the patient developed bilateral epididymo-orchitis following administration of the third dose of pembrolizumab and needed high-dose steroids resulting in complete resolution ( 86 ). The testis is considered an immune-privileged organ due to its ability to tolerate autoantigens. The use of experimental autoimmune orchitis (EAO) in rats has allowed analysis of the autoimmune inflammatory response to spermatic antigens, providing a steppingstone towards understanding the ICI-induced primary hypogonadism. The main mechanisms responsible for preventing autoimmune disease of testes are: (a) secretion of immunosuppressive factors by macrophages, Sertoli cells, and Leydig cells, (b) presence of blood-testis barrier (BTB), and (c) presence of regulatory T cells. There is a fine equilibrium between dendritic cells, macrophages, T cells, and cytokines in maintaining immunosuppression in testes. While there have been no studies to date specifically evaluating the mechanism of ICI-induced orchitis, the examination of the normal and altered autoimmune immunobiology elucidates the possible mechanisms involved ( 89 ). This is briefly described below: Secretion of Immunosuppressive Factors In the normal testis macrophages, Sertoli and Leydig cells create an immunosuppressor microenvironment by secreting factors and cytokines that inhibit immune reactions. These include transforming growth factor-beta, granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor, alpha-endorphin, and insulin-growth factor-1 ( 89 , 90 ). In the setting of EAO, there is increased recruitment and activation of immune cells to the interstitium which bring along with them secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, IL-17, IL-23). This brings
