Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors Related Endocrine Adverse Events
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, diabetes, free, pd-, icis, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, immune, cells, therapy, hypophysitis


of EAO, there is increased recruitment and activation of immune cells to the interstitium which bring along with them secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, IL-17, IL-23). This brings about a cascade of events leading to germ cell apoptosis, primarily via the section of TNF-alpha ( 89 , 91 ) Blood-Testis Barrier (BTB) In the normal testis, the BTB limits the interaction between germ cell antigens and interstitial immune cells. Secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines mentioned above act on adherens and tight junctions, altering the BTB permeability ( 92 ). After crossing the BTB, these cytokines enter the seminiferous tubules inducing apoptosis of germ cells and facilitating the release of spermatic antigens, which then go on to interact with interstitial immune cells ( 92 ). Presence of Regulatory T Cells (Tregs) In the normal testis, there are several subsets of T cells present, regulating immune responses. Tregs specifically, mediate tolerance to self-antigens and their suppression sets the stage for autoimmunity. While there are increased Tregs seen in chronic inflamed testis, these are overwhelmed by the inhibitory effects of effector T cells, affecting the ability of Tregs to control autoimmunity ( 93 ). CTLA-4 inhibits effector T cells and PD-1/PDL-1 binding promotes the conversion of Teff to Treg. Therefore, it is plausible that the use of the combination of ipilimumab with an anti-PD-1/PDL-1 antibody, tips the balance between Tregs and effector cells toward the effector T cells. Consequently, creating a pro-inflammatory state resulting in orchitis. LONG-TERM OUTCOMES AND TREATMENT It is well established that inflammation and infection of the male reproductive tract may lead to infertility in males ( 94 ). Therefore, it is reasonable to postulate that ICI-induced orchitis may also lead to male infertility, a consequence that should be addressed by providers. The long-term outcomes of ICIs are just beginning to be explored. One retrospective review assessed patients who became infertile after ICI therapy and subsequently died. Retrospective cohort cadaver study analyzing tissue specimens of the testes showed 86% of men who received ICI therapy had impaired spermatogenesis ( 88 ). Notably, there was no increased peritubular hyalinization or fibrosis in the treated group, and no changes in Leydig cells ( 88 ). These findings support the previously mentioned pathophysiology of ICI-induced orchitis and address the possibility of infertility as a long-term consequence. Given the limited information on the effects of ICIs in spermatogenesis, providers should provide patients with
