Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors Related Endocrine Adverse Events
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, diabetes, free, pd-, icis, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, immune, cells, therapy, hypophysitis


pathophysiology of ICI-induced orchitis and address the possibility of infertility as a long-term consequence. Given the limited information on the effects of ICIs in spermatogenesis, providers should provide patients with their options, such as sperm banking and cryopreservation ( 95 ). Other Uncommon Endocrine Side Effects ACQUIRED GENERALIZED LIPODYSTROPHY Lipodystrophy is characterized by absent of visceral or subcutaneous adipose tissue in the settings of normal non-starvation nutritional state. It is a known common side effect from certain medications such as older HIV protease inhibitor, which is a reversible side effect. While the mechanism of lipodystrophy from ICIs is currently unclear, it is believed that the medication may induced an autoimmune process that leads to fat destruction by forming anti-adipocyte antibodies. In ICI-induced lipodystrophy, the more common form appears to be acquired generalized lipodystrophy (AGL) in which all fat tissues are affected but may spare the neck and face region. Onset of AGL, can be as early as 2-4 months which is roughly after 4-5 doses of ICIs. Currently, most of the cases of ICI-induced AGL are associated with nivolumab therapy ( 96 , 97 ). HYPOPARATHYROIDISM AND HYPOCALCEMIA Another rare but crucial endocrine irAEs is hypocalcemia secondary to hypoparathyroidism. While the exact mechanism is unclear, the proposed etiology is due to calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) activating autoantibodies. This antibody is also present in patients with autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type 1 (APS1) or idiopathic hypoparathyroidism. The clinical presentation can be as abrupt as an acute symptomatic hypocalcemia episode which includes paresthesia, tetany, and potential arrhythmias requiring hospitalization but may also present as very mild to asymptomatic hypocalcemia. For both circumstances, calcium and vitamin D replacement are adequate therapy but patients should be closely monitored for severe symptoms ( 98 ). CENTRAL DIABETES INSIPIDUS Posterior pituitary hormone secretion can also be affected with ICIs, mainly antidiuretic hormones (ADH), which can subsequently lead to sodium and water dysregulation. To our knowledge only 3 cases of central diabetes insipidus (CDI) has been reported with the use of nivolumab (PD-1 inhibitor) and Azelumab (PD-L1 inhibitor) ( 99 - 101 ).The patients presented with classic polyuria/polydipsia symptoms along with hypernatremia which responded well to desmopressin ( 99 - 101 ). In the case report described by Fosci et. al., the authors described coexistence of metastatic localization and infundibulo-neurohypophysitis on MRI ( 100 ) while in the case report by Deligiori et. al., there was no signs of
