Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors Related Endocrine Adverse Events
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, diabetes, free, pd-, icis, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, immune, cells, therapy, hypophysitis


et. al., the authors described coexistence of metastatic localization and infundibulo-neurohypophysitis on MRI ( 100 ) while in the case report by Deligiori et. al., there was no signs of hypophysitis on imaging ( 99 ). Thus, further investigation is needed to fully understand the possible mechanisms for CDI. SYNDROME OF INAPPROPRIATE ANTIDIURETIC HORMONE SECRETION (SIADH) SIADH is the opposite scenario in which patients present with euvolemic hyponatremia. It is somewhat difficult to distinguish for certain that SIADH is truly from ICIs since SIADH is quite common in patients with underlying malignancies. Additionally, pain in patients with cancer itself can be the underlying cause of SIADH. Additionally, there are some reports of hyponatremia as a manifestation of adrenal insufficiency in patients on ICIs and hence it is crucial to rule out adrenal insufficiency for any patient with hyponatremia, as immediate recognition and treatment can be lifesaving ( 102 , 103 ). VITILIGO Depigmentation of skin or vitiligo is thought to be from inducing an immune response to normal melanocyte antigens leading to the destructive process. While vitiligo itself may not be directly endocrine-related, its presence has been strongly associated with common endocrinopathies such as thyroid and adrenal disease as well as autoimmune diabetes. Interestingly, when vitiligo is present as one of the side effects from ICIs, this may represent a better prognosis in melanoma cases ( 104 ). Figure 4. Proposed algorithm to screen and manage patients with endocrine irAEs Table 3. Summary of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events ( 28 ) View in own window Grade Severity of Adverse events Management 1 Mild (asymptomatic or mild symptoms) Clinical or diagnostic observation 2 Moderate Minimal, local or noninvasive intervention indicated 3 Severe or medically significant but not immediate life threatening Intervention is required 4 Life threatening Urgent intervention indication 5 Death Table 4. Summary of the Incidence of Endocrine iRAEs ( 8 , 16 , 23 , 41 , 55 - 64 , 105 ) View in own window irAEs PD-1/L1 inhibitors CTLA-4 inhibitors Combination Hypophysitis Less than 1% 0-17% More common than single drug use. Hypothyroidism 7-21% 0-6% hyperthyroidism Higher in PD1 inhibitors compared to PDL1 inhibitors Less common than PD-1/PDL1 inhibitors Primary adrenal insufficiency Less common than CTLA-4 inhibitors More common than PD-1/PDL1 inhibitors Diabetes Around 2.5% None reported CONCLUSION Considering the increasing use of immune checkpoint inhibitors in clinical practice, health care providers and patients
