OPEN
KEYWORDS: groups, diabetes, dmcd, patients, p-value, disease, celiac, fat, group, individuals, celiac disease, bmi, type, energy, body


other biochemicalanalyseswerecarriedoutusingcommercialkits,aspartofthe routineassessmentafterovernightfasting. Statistical analyses We used Excel 2011 and SPSS version 20.0 (IBM SPSS Statistics for Windows, IBM Corp., Armonk, NY, USA) for statistical analysis. Variables were described as mean and s.d., median and range (minimum and maximum).Theanalysisofvariancetestwasappliedtoanalyzevariance, whereas normality of data distribution was assumed within each group using the Kolmogorov–Smirnov test. For variables with statistically significantdifferencesbetweengroups,weperformedtheBonferronitest formultiplecomparisons.Weappliedthenon-parametrictestofFisherand Pearson correlation coefficient to analyze independent variables, and to assess the relationship between the variables, respectively. Tests were performedwithasignificancelevelof5%. RESULTS sex and BMI in all groups. The duration of T1DM was similar betweenDMCDandDMgroups;however,thedurationofCDwas significantly higher in the CD group compared to DMCD (P=0.0015). )2mc( aera taf larecsiv D M D C M C D C H D Groups egatnecrep taf ydob Diabetes,celiacdiseaseandqualityoflife JGNunes-Silvaetal Figure1. Visceralfatareaandpercentageofbodyfataccordingto dual energy X-rayabsorptiometry( DEXA) among allfourdifferent groups. CD, celiac disease only; DM, type 1 diabetes only; DMDC, type 1 diabetes mellitus and celiac disease; HC, healthy control. Valuesareexpressedasmeans±s.d.,medianandrange(minimum and maximum). (a) Visceral fat area (cm2) and (b) body fat percentage. Nutrition&Diabetes(2017) 1–6 Diabetes,celiacdiseaseandqualityoflife JGNunes-Silvaetal male patients had BMI o25kgm−2, waist circumference with osteopenia by densitometry: one patient of DM group and o94cm and visceral fat o100cm2. Taken together, these data other two female participants, postmenopausal, aged 48 and 57 pointed to similarities of clinical characteristics between groups yearsold.Oneofthesebelongedtothecontrolgroupandoneto and the tendency of women with CD to have higher risk of CD group, reflecting that almost all patients in all groups were metaboliccomplications. within the normal range for Z-score in the bone mineral density, All participants had normocaloric habitual food intake with without anystatistical difference. nutritional composition appropriately distributed by macronutri- Results of psychological well-being assessment estimated by the adult population. The quality of diets was adequate for capacity, physical limitations, pain and social aspects in the carbohydrates (except for the DM group) and protein, but DM and CD groups, but without reaching statistical difference hyperlipidemic (except for HC). The consumption of B12 vitamin (Table5).TwodomainsoftheSF-36reachedstatisticallysignificant andseleniumwassatisfactory,whereasfiber,calciumandvitamin differencesbetweenDMandhealthycontrolgroups:generalhealth D intake did not reach the daily recommendations in all groups. (P=0.042) and energy/vitality (P=0.012). Of particular note was Laboratorymeasurementsofvitaminsandmineralsweresimilarin the negative correlation between glycemic control, assessed by all groups, and within the normal range (Table 3). Nonetheless, glycated hemoglobin levels of the DM group, with the domain serum levels of folic acid and magnesium were lower in energy/vitality(Table6). individuals with CD (DMCD and CD groups) and patients with ComplicationsassociatedwithT1DMwerenotcorrelatedwitha In general, it is possible to conclude that having DM1,
