1 Recommendations
KEYWORDS: graft, cost, miraq, flow, cabg, surgery, patients, veriq, committee, pulsatility, pulsatility index, costs, index, time, use


1.1 The MiraQ system is recommended as a cost saving option for assessing graft flow during coronary artery bypass graft surgery. Why the committee made these recommendations Clinical evidence shows that the MiraQ system is effective for assessing coronary artery bypass grafts and allows for grafts to be revised during surgery. This may reduce the frequency of graft occlusion and may reduce perioperative morbidity and mortality. The MiraQ system can lead to an estimated cost saving of £80.27 per person compared with clinical assessment. [2022] 2 The technology Description of the technology 2.1 The MiraQ cardiac system (MCQ0, Medistim ASA) uses ultrasound for the non- invasive assessment of graft blood flow during coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery. It is intended for use in patients with coronary artery disease who are having CABG surgery. It measures 3 parameters of transit time flow (mean blood flow in ml/minute, pulsatility index and diastolic filling percentage) to assess graft blood flow and check patency. 2.2 The MiraQ system measures transit time volume flow using specially designed probes. A microcomputer with a 19-inch touch screen mounted on a moveable trolley is used to control the probes and store their outputs. 2.3 The MiraQ system can use 2 types of probes to assess blood flow during CABG procedures (the PS and PQ). These differ in the number of recommended reuses and their method of sterilisation. Only the PS probe is considered in this guidance, because the PQ probe needs ethylene oxide sterilisation, which is not thought to be widely available in the NHS. The probes deliver a bidirectional ultrasound beam across a target vessel and the system analyses the returning signal to calculate the blood flow through the vessel at a default filter setting of 20 Hz. A real-time flow curve is displayed together with the mean blood flow in ml/minute, pulsatility index and diastolic filling percentage. This information can be used to determine whether flow through the graft and its anastomoses is acceptable. If not, then the graft can be explored to detect imperfections and revised as necessary to achieve acceptable blood flow. 2.4 The cost of the MiraQ system stated in the sponsor's submission includes £32,000 for the VeriQ 2011 console, and £1,582 for each PS probe. These costs were updated in the 2017 revision of the cost model to £34,000 for the cardiac MCQ0 console and £1,481 for each probe. [2018] These
