1 Recommendations
KEYWORDS: graft, cost, miraq, flow, cabg, surgery, patients, veriq, committee, pulsatility, pulsatility index, costs, index, time, use


fluorescence. NICE has produced interventional procedures guidance on intraoperative fluorescence angiography for the evaluation of coronary artery bypass graft. This guidance states that current evidence suggests that the procedure is safe enough for routine use in the evaluation of coronary artery bypass graft patency. 3 Clinical evidence Summary of clinical evidence 3.1 The key clinical outcomes for the MiraQ system presented in the decision problem were: • incidence of graft failure • time to graft failure • peri and postoperative clinical events associated with graft failure (including mortality) • frequency of the need for graft revision and changes in VeriQ measurements afterwards • the need for repeat coronary revascularisation procedures • long-term morbidity and mortality. 3.2 The evidence for the clinical effectiveness of the MiraQ system was based on 2 retrospective observational studies that examined surgical outcomes, and one comparative study that compared parameter values from the VeriQ system against another flowmeter. The studies were conducted in hospitals in Europe and Canada; there were none in the UK. All patients in the studies were treated by coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery. 3.3 In a retrospective case study in Canada, Kieser et al. (2010) evaluated transit time flow measurement with the VeriQ system to detect technical errors in CABGs intra-operatively and to predict postoperative major adverse cardiac events. They assessed 1,000 arterial grafts in 336 consecutive patients. Three parameters of transit time flow (pulsatility index, flow and diastolic filling percentage) were measured in 990 (99%) of the grafts. A pulsatility index value of less than 5 was chosen as the principal measure of graft adequacy. In 82% of the patients (277 of 336), 93% of grafts (916 of 990) had a pulsatility index of less than or equal to 5. The remaining 74 (7%) grafts (in 59 patients, 18%) had a pulsatility index of greater than 5, but grafts were revised only when an abnormally high pulsatility index was accompanied by other indications of graft malfunction (abnormal electrocardiogram [ECG] changes, regional wall motion abnormality on transoesophageal echocardiography or haemodynamic compromise). On this basis, 20 grafts (in 14 patients, 4%) that were suspected to be problematic were revised. 3.4 For analysis of the findings, patients were divided into 2 groups: the 277 (82%) with at least one graft with a pulsatility index of less than 5, and 59 (18%) with at least one graft with a pulsatility index of greater than
