1 Recommendations
KEYWORDS: graft, cost, miraq, flow, cabg, surgery, patients, veriq, committee, pulsatility, pulsatility index, costs, index, time, use


pulsatility index. The VeriQ and Transonic flowmeters have default filter settings of 20 Hz and 10 Hz respectively. Flow patterns in 19 patients recorded simultaneously by both flowmeters during CABG surgery were analysed. This showed that the VeriQ system provided systematically higher pulsatility index values than the Transonic device (mean ± standard deviation [SD]: 2.7±1.2 versus 1.8±0.6 respectively, p<0.001). 3.7 Clinical evidence was also available from 26 studies on predecessor devices of the VeriQ system which were designed to evaluate the technical performance of devices, to compare them against the other methods of graft flow assessment such as intraoperative fluorescence imaging and postoperative X-ray angiography; and to assess the predictive value of abnormal transit time flow measurement on short and long-term clinical outcomes of CABG surgery. These were evaluated by the external assessment centre and, on balance, their opinion was that the studies showed that transit time flow measurements by the VeriQ system predecessor devices predicted short-term graft failure following CABG surgery and were easier to carry out than other methods. However, they also thought that assessing graft flow with transit time flow measurement alone may prompt unnecessary graft revision in some cases and there is inadequate evidence about whether transit time flow measurement predicts long-term patient survival. Committee considerations 3.8 The committee recognised that graft dysfunction is a major determinant of perioperative morbidity and mortality after CABG. It was advised that the majority of graft failures in the perioperative period are due to technical imperfections which, if recognised, might be corrected at the time of surgery. 3.9 The committee noted that perioperative myocardial infarction resulting from graft failure may cause serious complications such as left ventricular dysfunction, ventricular arrhythmias and haemodynamic instability, which can necessitate prolonged intensive therapy unit stay. These complications may need interventions such as intra-aortic balloon pumping, coronary angiography and early reoperative CABG surgery. They may also lead to readmission to hospital. 3.10 The committee considered that the available evidence supported the claim that transit time flow measured by the VeriQ system can identify grafts that have reduced flow as a result of technical imperfections. 3.11 The committee recognised limitations in the available evidence. The main studies were observational, with potential for bias. The study by Kieser et al. (2010) investigated the VeriQ system on arterial grafts only, whereas in the NHS the majority of CABGs are vein grafts. Nevertheless, it judged that there was sufficient
