1 Recommendations
KEYWORDS: graft, cost, miraq, flow, cabg, surgery, patients, veriq, committee, pulsatility, pulsatility index, costs, index, time, use


Kieser et al. (2010) investigated the VeriQ system on arterial grafts only, whereas in the NHS the majority of CABGs are vein grafts. Nevertheless, it judged that there was sufficient additional evidence relating to predecessor devices and sufficient expert advice to support the expectation that routinely revising all appropriate grafts on the basis of VeriQ measurements would result in reduced perioperative graft occlusions and consequent complications. 3.12 The committee noted from the study by Nordgaard et al. (2010) that pulsatility index values from the VeriQ system may differ from those of other machines and are influenced by filter settings. However, these differences are systematic and expected to be predictable. 3.13 The committee was advised that cardiac surgeons use a variety of methods to minimise and detect technical imperfections during CABG surgery but these may have limitations. On the basis of the evidence, it judged that the routine use of VeriQ, as an adjunct to other methods of assessment such as transoesophageal echocardiography, electrocardiography and clinical assessment, would be likely to detect technical problems in some grafts that appear to be satisfactory on clinical assessment alone. 3.14 The committee noted that recent joint guidelines on myocardial revascularisation issued by the European Society of Cardiology (ESC) and the European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery (EACTS) have recommended graft evaluation by objective methods before leaving the operating theatre after CABG surgery. These guidelines refer to flow less than 20 ml/minute and a pulsatility index of greater than 5 as predicting technically inadequate grafts that need revision before leaving the operating theatre. 3.15 The committee recognised that the clinical outcomes of CABG surgery have improved in the UK in the past 20 years and that complication rates are now very low. However it was advised that there is still a perioperative graft occlusion rate of 1% to 3%. The committee considered that the VeriQ system has potential to reduce this graft occlusion rate and so further reduce morbidity and mortality after CABG. 4 NHS considerations System impact 4.1 Approximately 22,500 isolated coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) operations are performed in the UK each year. In addition, a substantial proportion of patients having other cardiac surgery (for example, valve replacement surgery) have concomitant CABG. Based on this large number of patients, any reduction in graft occlusion rates by the MiraQ system during CABG surgery potentially offers significant cost savings to the NHS. 4.2 The committee was
