1 Recommendations
KEYWORDS: graft, cost, miraq, flow, cabg, surgery, patients, veriq, committee, pulsatility, pulsatility index, costs, index, time, use


this large number of patients, any reduction in graft occlusion rates by the MiraQ system during CABG surgery potentially offers significant cost savings to the NHS. 4.2 The committee was informed that the MiraQ system is easy to use and does not significantly increase operative time. Committee considerations 4.3 As described in section 3, the committee judged that reduction in graft occlusion rates by MiraQ assessment and appropriate revision at the time of surgery could decrease complication rates. This could reduce the likelihood of subsequent interventions, prolonged intensive therapy unit and hospital stay, and readmission. Each of these reductions would result in significant resource savings. 5 Cost considerations Cost evidence 5.1 The economic evidence for the MiraQ system comprised a new cost analysis to assess the cost savings to the NHS of introducing the MiraQ system for assessing graft flow during coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery, compared against clinical assessment. 5.2 In the base-case analysis, the equipment cost for the MiraQ system was about £111 per procedure and the additional time for measuring flow in 3 grafts was 2.35 minutes. The equipment costs were based on the VeriQ 2011 console (purchase cost £32,000 with an anticipated life span of 10 years) and an average use of 1.7 probes per procedure (£1,582 per PS probe, which is recommended for up to 30 uses). The costs per patient were based on the purchase cost of a MiraQ system divided by 220 days' use per year over its life expectancy, including annual maintenance costs. Annual maintenance costs are payable from the end of year 2 at £1,800 per year. It was assumed that the annual maintenance costs for the remaining 8 years would be averaged over the 10-year life expectancy of the equipment. All time costs in the model were based on the salaries of a CABG team comprising 2 cardiothoracic surgeons, 1 anaesthetist, 1 cardiac perfusionist and 2 cardiac nurses. 5.3 The cost model evaluated the cost savings of using the MiraQ system compared with clinical assessment alone in assessing graft flow in all patients having CABG. The outcomes considered in the model are complications associated with the CABG surgery. 5.4 The consequences of using the MiraQ system were based on results from 2 studies (Kieser et al. [2010] and Becit et al. [2007]). In the base-case analysis, use of the MiraQ system was associated with an increase of 6.6% in
