1 Recommendations
KEYWORDS: graft, cost, miraq, flow, cabg, surgery, patients, veriq, committee, pulsatility, pulsatility index, costs, index, time, use


results from 2 studies (Kieser et al. [2010] and Becit et al. [2007]). In the base-case analysis, use of the MiraQ system was associated with an increase of 6.6% in the graft revision rate (a 2.3% increase in minor revisions and a 4.3% increase in major revisions). Costs were based on the time taken by the CABG team to perform the revisions. The cost of the time taken to perform a minor revision was estimated to be £11, and for major revisions, £180. 5.5 The perioperative events included in the cost analysis were: incidence of postoperative myocardial infarction and the associated rehabilitation costs; use of intra-aortic balloon pumping; incidence and treatment costs of intraoperative re-exploration for bleeding; and incidence and treatment costs of deep sternal infection. The rates of these events for CABG with and without the MiraQ system were based on Becit et al. (2007). The base-case analysis compared a 0% postoperative myocardial infarction rate for patients assessed clinically and with VeriQ versus a 5% rate for patients who had clinical assessment alone. The treatment costs of postoperative myocardial infarction and associated rehabilitation costs were estimated to be £1,667 per patient. The cost of treatment by intra-aortic balloon pumping was estimated to be £2,657 per episode. The base-case analysis compared a 1% rate for intra-aortic balloon pumping for patients assessed clinically and with VeriQ versus a 7% rate for patients who had clinical assessment alone. There was no difference in the rate of intraoperative re-exploration of bleeding and incidence of deep sternal infection between the arms of the model. No adverse event costs as a result of using the VeriQ system were included in the model because none have been reported. 5.6 The cost saving associated with the MiraQ system in the base case was £115 per patient based on purchase of a VeriQ 2011 console (£32,000), using a PS probe (£1,582 for 30 uses), and annual maintenance costs (£1,800) payable at the end of year 2. 5.7 The sensitivity analysis based on the parameters and ranges identified by the manufacturer showed that estimates of cost saving for the MiraQ system are robust. The key drivers of the cost saving were the reduction in the rate of postoperative myocardial infarction and the reduction in use of intra-aortic balloon pumping associated with the use of the MiraQ system. The highest cost saving obtained in the sensitivity analysis was £323 per
