1 Recommendations
KEYWORDS: graft, cost, miraq, flow, cabg, surgery, patients, veriq, committee, pulsatility, pulsatility index, costs, index, time, use


infarction and the reduction in use of intra-aortic balloon pumping associated with the use of the MiraQ system. The highest cost saving obtained in the sensitivity analysis was £323 per patient and was associated with 0% use of intra-aortic balloon pumping in patients assessed with the MiraQ system compared with a usage rate of 14% in patients assessed without the MiraQ system. The lowest cost saving, of £38 per patient, was obtained for a 2.5% postoperative myocardial infarction rate. The only case in which use of the MiraQ system was not cost saving (when the cost per patient was £45) was when there was no change in the usage rate of intra-aortic balloon pumping in either arm of the model (3.5%). The external assessment centre advised that this is a pessimistic view and that the MiraQ system is likely to be cost saving when used appropriately. Committee considerations 5.8 The committee considered that the assumptions made in the cost model were realistic and that the range of savings calculated for the use of MiraQ was likely to be realised in practice. 5.9 The committee noted that the manufacturer's cost model did not include potential cost savings from reductions in intensive therapy unit stay and reduced readmission rates. The cost savings associated with the MiraQ system may therefore have been underestimated. 5.10 The committee also noted that the manufacturer's estimated usage of the MiraQ system at 1 patient per day for 220 days per year was likely to be conservative. The committee was advised that on average 3 to 4 CABG operations are performed per day in a cardiac operating theatre in the UK. Increased annual use of a MiraQ system is expected to reduce the estimated equipment cost per procedure because the capital cost of the VeriQ system will be divided across more procedures. 5.11 The committee considered that the reductions in perioperative myocardial infarction rate to zero and of intra-aortic balloon pump use from 7% to 1% when using the MiraQ system compared with clinical assessment alone in the base case were likely to be overestimates. This would tend to reduce the estimated cost savings of the MiraQ system. However, the committee noted that sensitivity analysis showed that if using the MiraQ system had no impact on the postoperative myocardial infarction rate or led to only a small change in intra- aortic balloon pumping rates (of less than 2%),
