NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: agents, platelet, used, aggregation, prevention, antithrombotic, liver, drugs, ticagrelor, injury, arterial, thromboses, treatment, platelet aggregation, liver injury


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Antithrombotic Agents. [Updated 2020 Sep 25]. Bookshelf URL: Antithrombotic Agents Updated: September 25, 2020. OVERVIEW Antithrombotic agents are separated into those drugs that decrease the synthesis of coagulation factors or interrupt the coagulation cascade (anticoagulants) and those that inhibit platelet function (antiplatelet agents). A third class of agents are the thrombolytic drugs which act to promote dissolution of thromboses after they have formed. The antithrombotic agents are rare causes of clinically apparent acute liver injury. Anticoagulants are used largely for the prevention and treatment of venous thromboses, although they have some activity against arterial thromboses. Their major clinical use is prevention and treatment of deep vein thrombosis in high risk persons (such as after hip or knee replacement surgery or with prolonged immobilization), prevention and treatment of pulmonary embolism, and prevention of arterial embolism in patients with atrial fibrillation. The anticoagulant agents in clinical use and their year of approval include heparin and its low molecular weight derivatives dalteparin (Fragmin: 1994), enoxaparin (Lovenox: 1993), and tinzaparin (Innohep: 2000); direct thrombin inhibitors such as dabigatran (Pradaxa: 2010) and desirudin (Iprivask: 2003); factor Xa inhibitors such as fondaparinux (Arixtra: 2001), rivaroxaban (Xarelto: 2011), apixaban (Eliquis: 2012) and edoxaban (Savaysa: 2015); and warfarin (Coumadin: 1967), a vitamin K antagonist. Each of the following anticoagulants is discussed individually with accompanying references. • Dabigatran, Desirudin • Apixaban, Betrixaban, Edoxaban, Fondaparinux, Rivaroxaban • Heparins, Heparin, Dalteparin, Enoxaparin, Tinzaparin • Warfarin Antiplatelet agents are effective for the prevention and treatment of arterial thromboses (which are platelet rich). Aspirin is an irreversible inhibitor of cyclooxygenase 1, which blocks platelet activation and aggregation for the life of the platelet. Aspirin is commonly used for treatment and prevention of coronary, cerebrovascular and other arterial thromboses (myocardial infarction, stroke, peripheral vascular disease). Dipyridamole increases cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) levels in platelets by blocking adenosine uptake or inhibiting phosphodiesterases which metabolize cAMP. The increased cAMP levels result in inhibition of platelet aggregation. Dipyridamole is used with or without aspirin for secondary prevention of myocardial infarction or stroke. The thienopyridines, ticlopidine, clopidogrel and prasugrel, inhibit the major adenosine diphosphate receptor (also known as the purinergic receptor, P2Y-12) on platelets which blocks their activation and aggregation. These agents are used for secondary prevention of coronary and cerebrovascular thrombosis. Ticagrelor is a non-thienopyridine platelet aggregation inhibitor with activity similar
