NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: agents, platelet, used, aggregation, prevention, antithrombotic, liver, drugs, ticagrelor, injury, arterial, thromboses, treatment, platelet aggregation, liver injury


on platelets which blocks their activation and aggregation. These agents are used for secondary prevention of coronary and cerebrovascular thrombosis. Ticagrelor is a non-thienopyridine platelet aggregation inhibitor with activity similar to the thienopyridines. Ticagrelor is used with aspirin (<100 mg daily) as secondary prevention of arterial thrombosis with acute coronary syndrome. Cangrelor is a platelet aggregation inhibitor similar to ticagrelor which is administered 2 LiverTox intravenously and has a rapid onset of action and rapid half-life, making it an appropriate as therapy of acute cardiovascular events. Vorapaxar is a inhibitor of the protease-activated receptor 1 (PAR-1) found on platelets that inhibits platelet aggregation and is used to reduct the risk of atherosclerotic events in high risk patients. Finally, the glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor blockers have an immediate effect in preventing platelet aggregation, blocking the action of fibrinogen and von Willebrand factor on these platelet receptors; these agents are administered intravenously and are used to attain immediate platelet inhibition in acute coronary syndrome or percutaneous coronary artery intervention. Because of their restricted use, the glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor inhibitors are not discussed individually in LiverTox. They have not been convincingly linked to instances of clinically apparent acute liver injury. The antiplatelet drugs in current use and their year of approval include aspirin; dipyridamole (Persantine: 1961); the thienopyridine inhibitors of P2Y-12 including ticlopidine (Ticid: 1991), clopidogrel (Plavix: 1997), and prasugrel (Effient: 2009); the non-thienopyridine P2Y-12 inhibitors ticagrelor (Brilinta: 2011) and cangrelor (Kenreal: 2015); an inhibitor of PAR-1 vorapaxar (Zontivity: 2014); and the intravenously administered glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor blockers including abciximab (ReoPro: 1994) and eptifibatide (Integrilin: 1998). Each of the following antiplatelet agents is discussed individually with accompanying references. • Aspirin • Cangrelor • Clopidogrel • Dipyridamole • Prasugrel • Ticagrelor • Ticlopidine • Vorapaxar Thrombolytic drugs include tissue plasminogen activators (tPA: alteplase, reteplase and tenecteplase), anistreplase, streptokinase and urokinase. These agents are administered intravenously immediately or soon after after arterial or venous thromboses or emboli. These agents have not been definitely linked to instances of acute liver injury. Because of their highly restricted use, they are not discussed in LiverTox. Other antithrombotic agents include defibrotide, which is a complex mixture of single stranded polydeoxyribonucleotides derived from porcine intestinal mucosa that has antithrombotic and profibrinolyt ic activity and is used in the treatment of severe sinusoidal obstruction syndrome after hematopoietic cell transplantation. Finally, anagrelide is an antithrombotic agent that inhibits the production of platelets, thereby
