Chapter 21: Epidemiology of Ocular Functions and Diseases in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, retinopathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, persons, diabetic retinopathy, years, age, incidence, visual, wesdr, study, risk, persons type


worse) over 10 years as those with A1c in the lowest quartile. For those with type 2 diabetes, the effect across quartiles was about 1.5 times. Fortunately, treatments are available for some specific ocular complications that have a direct effect on visual acuity. The decreased visual acuity that is the most important functional effect of diabetes on the eye is largely attributable to anatomic patho- logic conditions, such as diabetic retinopathy, diabetic macular edema, cataract, glaucoma, and corneal disease. Of these, the most important, due to the chance of permanent decreased vision, are severe diabetic retinopathy (i.e., proliferative diabetic retinopathy [PDR]) and diabetic macular edema. In the WESDR, a largely white cohort, 71% of persons with type 1 diabetes and 47% of persons with type 2 diabetes had retinopathy, 23% and 6% had PDR, and 11% and 8%, respectively, had macular edema at the baseline examination (1980–1982). Risk factors for development and progression of diabetic retinopathy and incidence of PDR include longer duration of diabetes, higher level of glycemia, greater body mass index, higher blood pressure, and the presence of nephropathy. Hispanics and blacks have higher prevalences of retinopathy compared to whites due, at least in part, to differences in health care access. Panretinal photocoagulation for treatment of PDR and focal and grid laser photocoagulation for clinically significant macular edema (CSME) have reduced the risk of severe vision loss by as much as 90%. Intravitreal injections of anti-vascular endothelial growth factor for CSME have shown efficacy in randomized controlled clinical trials in diminishing the effects of these retinal complications on vision and are expected to result in further prevention of visual loss. However, these treatments are expensive and associated with the risk of complications. While the prevalence of severe diabetic retinopathy is likely to be somewhat lower currently than in the past, evidence from cohorts defined in the early years of the 21st century suggests that this condition has not been overcome, and with the likely increases in the number of youths and adults with type 2 diabetes, diabetic retinal outcomes will continue to be important health burdens. Vision loss associated with diabetic retinopathy has been associated with poorer health-related quality of life. Guidelines for screening for PDR and macular edema have been developed. Studies have shown the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of such screening, yet some groups, such as Hispanics, are not getting timely dilated eye examinations as recommended in
