Chapter 21: Epidemiology of Ocular Functions and Diseases in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, retinopathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, persons, diabetic retinopathy, years, age, incidence, visual, wesdr, study, risk, persons type


edema have been developed. Studies have shown the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of such screening, yet some groups, such as Hispanics, are not getting timely dilated eye examinations as recommended in the guidelines. Aside from aging, diabetes is the most common risk factor for cataract. Cataract surgery with implant of artificial intra-ocular lenses is highly successful in restoring vision when cataract is the primary reason for decreased vision in those with diabetes. However, the surgery can have side effects or complications inherent in intra-ocular surgery that are more common in those with diabetes than in those without it. In addition, cataract surgery is a major health care cost because of its frequency, and when resources are scarce, surgery may be delayed, prolonging the time and inconvenience of decreased vision associated with cataracts. 21–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition The need for surveillance and care for those with diabetic ocular complications is likely to increase with the projected increase in the number of people with diabetes. In addition, changes in therapy, both general medical and specific ocular, are changing care patterns. Therefore, to anticipate health care needs and costs, and as part of a comprehensive public health program to diminish the disabilities associated with ocular problems related to diabetes, ongoing collection of population-based data on this subject is needed. IMPAIRMENT OF VISION AND BLINDNESS RELATED TO DIABETES PREVALENCE In 2004, estimates of the cause of severe visual impairment and low vision in adults in the United States were reported by the Eye Diseases Prevalence Research Group (1). Using prevalence data pooled from eight epidemiologic cohort studies that collected and reported data in the 1980s and 1990s in which best corrected visual acuity was ascertained after refrac­ tion, the authors estimated that 937,000 Americans with diabetes age ≥40 years had severe visual impairment, for an estimated prevalence of 0.78% (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.63%–0.94%) in the general U.S. population. The relative proportions of persons with low vision (corrected visual acuity of poorer than 20/40 in the better seeing eye, excluding persons who were blind) and blindness (corrected visual acuity of poorer than 20/200 in the better seeing eye) attributed to diabetic retinopathy varied by race/ ethnicity, with the lowest estimated prevalence in whites (4.9% and 5.4%, respectively) compared to blacks (14.5% and 7.3%, respectively) and Hispanic persons (13.0% and 14.3%, respectively) (Figures 21.1 and 21.2). The National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys (NHANES)
