Chapter 21: Epidemiology of Ocular Functions and Diseases in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, retinopathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, persons, diabetic retinopathy, years, age, incidence, visual, wesdr, study, risk, persons type


minimize their effects on mortality. DIABETIC RETINOPATHY Diabetic retinopathy is characterized by specific alterations in the appearance of the retina. The earliest change that can be seen with the aid of the ophthal­ moscope is the retinal microaneurysm. Retinal blot hemorrhages and hard exudates follow. Cotton-wool spots, intraretinal microvascular abnormalities, venous beading, and venous reduplica­ tion are other lesions that signal the onset of the ischemic hypoxic nonproliferative phase of diabetic retinopathy. Increasing hypoxia may result in the expression of growth factors and the development of PDR, characterized by the growth of abnormal blood vessels and fibrous tissue from the optic nerve head or from the inner retinal surface elsewhere. Swelling of the macular region of the retina, called macular edema, may occur in the pres­ ence of either NPDR or PDR. It is a result of leakage of fluid due to breakdown of the blood-retinal barrier and the failure of the retinal pigment epithelium to pump the fluid out of the retina. PREVALENCE The prevalences of diabetic retinopathy, PDR, and macular edema are thought to be decreasing. In 1980–1982, the prev­ alence of diabetic retinopathy in persons with type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes in the WESDR was 71% and 47%, for PDR it was 23% and 6%, and for macular edema it was 11% and 8%, respectively. Estimates of retinopathy were higher in persons with type 2 diabetes in the WESDR than in persons with type 2 diabetes in other cohorts included in the analysis by the Eye Diseases Prevalence Research Group (Table 21.10). The crude prevalence of any diabetic reti­ nopathy reported among persons with type 2 diabetes in that study was 40%, and the crude prevalence of severe vision-threatening retinopathy (pre-prolif­ erative and PDR or macular edema) was 8% (46). In 2004, the Eye Diseases Prevalence Research Group estimated that 4 million diabetic persons age ≥40 years had diabetic retinopathy, of whom approximately 900,000 had signs of vision-threatening retinopathy (Table 21.11) (46). Updated estimates of the prevalence of diabetic retinopathy in the United States are available from the NHANES 2005–2008. The estimated prevalences of diabetic retinopathy and vision-threatening retinopathy were 29% (95% CI 25%–33%) and 4% (95% CI 3%–6%) among adults in the United States with diabetes, respectively (Table 21.12) (47). Approximately 4.2 million persons with type 2 diabetes age ≥40 years were estimated to have diabetic retinopathy, of whom 650,000 had signs of vision-threat­
