Chapter 21: Epidemiology of Ocular Functions and Diseases in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, retinopathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, persons, diabetic retinopathy, years, age, incidence, visual, wesdr, study, risk, persons type


events occurred in the primary prevention cohort to allow meaningful analysis of this variable. § P<0.04 by the two-tailed rank-sum test. || Denotes the first episode of laser therapy for macular edema or proliferative retinopathy. SOURCE: Reference 124, copyright © 1993 Massachusetts Medical Society, reprinted with permission Data from the WESDR have shown that A1c and blood pressure only explain a small proportion of the progression of reti­ nopathy (an R² of 11%) and the incidence of proliferative retinopathy (an R² of 11%) in persons with type 1 diabetes (R. Klein and B.E.K. Klein, unpublished data). It has been estimated from DCCT data that while A1c levels accounted for more than 95% of the difference in retinopathy levels and other complications between the intensive and conventional treatment groups in that trial, A1c levels accounted for only 11% of the overall risk of retinop­ athy with “genetic and environmental influences” being other likely factors explaining the variance (125). Others have hypothesized that wide temporal fluctu­ ations in blood glucose, rather than A1c values, which represent only a 3-month average, may better explain the variance in diabetic retinopathy, although some data from the DCCT seem to refute this contention (126). Other novel factors not usually measured in population-based cohort studies may explain some of the variance of who develops PDR. In a cross-sectional study of people with ≥50 years of type 1 diabetes seen at the Joslin Clinic, 43% remained free of PDR (127). In this group, blood glucose control was not related to the incidence of PDR. Subjects with high plasma carboxymethyl-lysine and pentosidine, two markers of advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs), were more likely to develop PDR, suggesting a possible role of AGEs in the development of PDR. After 4 years of additional follow-up of the DCCT cohort, the study was stopped. Although A1c levels converged in the intensive and conventional groups, the protective effect of decreased incidence and progression of diabetic retinopathy by intensive glycemic control earlier was maintained in the intensive group (121,128,129). This phenomenon has been labeled “metabolic memory” and has also been found in persons with type 2 diabetes in the UKPDS (130). The UKPDS was a randomized controlled clinical trial involving 3,867 patients newly diagnosed with type 2 diabetes (122,123,131). After 12 years of follow-up, the study showed a 21% reduction in the rate of progression of diabetic retinop­ athy and a 29% reduction in the
