Chapter 21: Epidemiology of Ocular Functions and Diseases in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, retinopathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, persons, diabetic retinopathy, years, age, incidence, visual, wesdr, study, risk, persons type


microalbu­ minuria and macroalbuminuria over a 5-year period (secondary endpoints). In the entire study population, the mean age was 60 years, with an average duration of 10 years of type 2 diabetes (134). In the eye substudy, using the grading of fundus photographs to assess intensive glycemic control, a 33% reduction in the relative risk of progression of diabetic retinopathy from 7.3% with intensive glycemic therapy versus 10.4% with stan­ dard therapy (adjusted OR 0.67, 95% CI 0.51–0.87, p=0.003) in a relatively short period (4 years) was reported (135). The ACCORD was stopped early because of higher mortality in those in the intensive treatment group than in the standard treatment group. A third clinical trial, the Action in Diabetes and Vascular Disease: Preterax and Diamicron Modified Release Controlled Evaluation (ADVANCE) of persons with type 2 diabetes, showed no statistically significant effect of glycemic control on retinopathy outcomes (136). The results of these clinical trials show that intensive therapy for controlling glycemia should be the primary public health care strategy aimed at reducing the risk of visual loss from diabetic retinopathy in persons with poorly controlled diabetes. The data from the DCCT and UKPDS provide further support for the American Diabetes Association guidelines of a target A1c <7.0% and suggest that this level of glycemic control, when achieved early after diagnosis of diabetes, may have long-term benefit in terms of reducing the incidence and progression of diabetic retinopathy (137). However, although there has been improvement in A1c levels since the completion of these trials, data from the NHANES (138,139,140) and the WESDR (87,141) show that few persons with diabetes actually reach this targeted level of glycemic control. The data from the ACCORD indicate that lowering the A1c to <6% protected against retinopathy, but achieving such levels with the current technology in patients with longstanding type 2 diabetes who have or who are at risk of CVD may be hazardous (142,143). “In these persons, negative metabolic memory” may result from chronic expo­ sure to hyperglycemia, reducing the possible efficacy of good glycemic control (144). When taken together, the results from the UKPDS, VADT, ACCORD, and ADVANCE suggest the need for early identification of type 2 diabetes and control of hypergly­ cemia. The decision to employ intensive glucose management in patients with longer-term type 2 diabetes is dependent on the duration of diabetes, preexisting macrovascular disease, and hypoglycemic unawareness, as well as on
