Chapter 21: Epidemiology of Ocular Functions and Diseases in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, retinopathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, persons, diabetic retinopathy, years, age, incidence, visual, wesdr, study, risk, persons type


decision to employ intensive glucose management in patients with longer-term type 2 diabetes is dependent on the duration of diabetes, preexisting macrovascular disease, and hypoglycemic unawareness, as well as on significant comorbidities, and A1c goals should account for these factors and be individu­ alized for each patient (145). Age at Diagnosis While adjusting for A1c levels, age at diagnosis was not related to the incidence or progression of diabetic retinopathy in either of the diabetes groups followed in the WESDR (95,97). Puberty Diabetic retinopathy is infrequent prior to age 13 years, irrespective of the duration of type 1 diabetes, and increases there­ after (111). In the WESDR, the 4-year incidence of diabetic retinopathy rose with age in children who were age 10–12 years at baseline (95). Four-year rates of progression of diabetic retinopathy in persons with type 1 diabetes continued to rise steadily with age until age 20 years, after which there was a gradual decline. No child age <13 years at baseline in the WESDR was found to have PDR at the 4-year follow-up. These findings form the rationale for guidelines for not screening for diabetic retinopathy in children with type 1 diabetes prior to puberty (114). Menarchal status, a crude marker of puberty, is related to the prevalence and severity of diabetic retinopathy (146). In the WESDR, independent of duration of type 1 diabetes and other risk factors, those who were postmenarchal were three times as likely to have diabetic retinopathy as those who were premenarchal. The incidence of diabetic retinopathy has been shown to be higher after puberty than before, independent of duration or glycemic control of type 1 diabetes (147,148,149). Changes that occur after puberty (e.g., increases in insulin-like growth factor 1, growth hormone, sex hormones, and blood pressure), as well as poorer glycemic control (due to increased insulin resistance, poorer compliance, and/or inadequate insulin dosage), may explain the higher risk of developing diabetic retinopathy after puberty. Early age at menarche has been linked to elevated risk of type 2 diabetes (150,151), and early menarche is associated with unfavorable metabolic traits, such as increased body mass index (BMI) and increased (log) insulin (152), but only limited information is available on the prevalence or incidence of retinopathy in women associated with early-onset type 2 diabetes or with the adverse phenotypes related to puberty status. Blood Pressure High blood pressure has been thought to increase risk of the
