Chapter 21: Epidemiology of Ocular Functions and Diseases in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, retinopathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, persons, diabetic retinopathy, years, age, incidence, visual, wesdr, study, risk, persons type


in women associated with early-onset type 2 diabetes or with the adverse phenotypes related to puberty status. Blood Pressure High blood pressure has been thought to increase risk of the incidence and progression of diabetic retinopathy. In the WESDR, blood pressure was a significant predictor of the incidence of diabetic reti­ nopathy in persons with type 1 diabetes (100). While adjusting for other risk factors, such as retinopathy severity, A1c, and duration of diabetes at baseline, higher blood pressure was significantly associ­ ated with incidence and progression of diabetic retinopathy in those with type 1 diabetes. However, in the WESDR, neither systolic nor diastolic blood pressures was found to be related to the 10-year 21–24 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition incidence and progression of retinopathy in those with type 2 diabetes (153). The UKPDS reported that incidence of diabetic retinopathy was associated with systolic blood pressure in persons with type 2 diabetes. In the WESDR, a 10 mmHg rise in diastolic blood pressure was associ­ ated with a 330% increased 4-year risk of macular edema in those with type 1 diabetes and a 210% increased risk in those with type 2 diabetes (154). Some randomized clinical trials have examined whether control of blood pres­ sure reduced the risk of the incidence and progression of diabetic retinopathy. The UKPDS sought to determine whether lowering blood pressure was beneficial in reducing macrovascular and microvas­ cular complications associated with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes (155). One thousand forty-eight patients with hyper­ tension (mean blood pressure 160/94 mmHg) were randomized to a regimen of intensive control of blood pressure with either captopril (an angiotensin-con­ verting enzyme inhibitor) or atenolol (a beta blocker) and another 390 patients to less intensive control of their blood pressure. The aim in the group random­ ized to intensive control of blood pressure (by the standards at the beginning of the clinical trial) was to achieve blood pres­ sure values <150/<85 mmHg. The aim in the group randomized to less intensive control was to achieve blood pressure values <180/<105 mmHg. The UKPDS showed that blood pressure control resulted in a 35% reduction in retinal photocoagulation compared to conven­ tional control, presumably due to a lower incidence of macular edema. Furthermore, for each 10 mmHg decrease in mean systolic blood pressure, there was a 13% reduction in microvascular complications. No evidence was found of a threshold in lowering blood pressure for
