Chapter 21: Epidemiology of Ocular Functions and Diseases in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, retinopathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, persons, diabetic retinopathy, years, age, incidence, visual, wesdr, study, risk, persons type


for each 10 mmHg decrease in mean systolic blood pressure, there was a 13% reduction in microvascular complications. No evidence was found of a threshold in lowering blood pressure for any diabetic retinopathy endpoint (156). After 7.5 years of follow-up, a 34% reduction in the rate of progression of diabetic retinopathy and a 47% reduction in doubling of the visual angle were observed. Atenolol and capto­ pril were equally effective in reducing the risk of developing microvascular compli­ cations, suggesting that blood pressure reduction itself was more important than the type of medication used to reduce it. The effects of blood pressure control were independent of those of glycemic control. These findings support the recom­ mendations for blood pressure control in patients with type 2 diabetes as a means of preventing vision loss from diabetic retinopathy. The ACCORD trial was formulated to test whether a therapeutic strategy that aimed for systolic blood pressure of <120 mmHg would reduce CVD events compared to a strategy that yielded a systolic blood pres­ sure of <140 mmHg in persons with type 2 diabetes in the context of good glycemic control (135). The ACCORD Eye study involved 1,263 participants who were involved in the ACCORD Blood Pressure study and had both baseline and year 4 follow-up data available for analyses. After 1 year, the baseline median systolic blood pressure decreased significantly (from 133 to 117 mmHg) in the group receiving intensive blood pressure therapy compared to the group receiving standard blood pressure therapy. No statistically significant difference in the progression of diabetic retinopathy was found between the groups (10% in the group under­ going intensive blood pressure control compared to 9% in the group undergoing standard blood pressure control, adjusted OR 1.23, 95% CI 0.84–1.79, p=0.29) (135). The rates of moderate vision loss were also similar between the two treat­ ment arms (28% and 25%) in the intensive therapy group and the standard therapy group, respectively (adjusted HR 1.17, 95% CI 0.96–1.42, p=0.12). The ADVANCE study also found no bene­ ficial effect of intensive blood pressure control on progression of diabetic reti­ nopathy (157). These findings from the ACCORD, ADVANCE, and UKPDS suggest that the benefit to diabetic retinopathy of treating blood pressure is likely limited to those with type 2 diabetes with levels that would be considered high and that there is no obvious effect of lowering blood pressure that is in the
