Chapter 21: Epidemiology of Ocular Functions and Diseases in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, retinopathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, persons, diabetic retinopathy, years, age, incidence, visual, wesdr, study, risk, persons type


likely limited to those with type 2 diabetes with levels that would be considered high and that there is no obvious effect of lowering blood pressure that is in the normal range or in those with only slightly elevated blood pressure in persons with type 2 diabetes. Because of differences in design, similar conclusions cannot be drawn from the randomized controlled clinical trials in persons with type 1 diabetes. Some randomized controlled clinical trials have examined whether specific antihyper­ tensive agents have a protective effect in preventing the progression of diabetic reti­ nopathy independent of its effect on blood pressure (158,159,160,161,162,163). The Epidemiology and Prevention of Diabetes Controlled Trial of Lisinopril in Insulin- Dependent Diabetes Mellitus (EUCLID) study examined whether lisinopril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, reduced the incidence and progression of diabetic retinopathy in a group of normo­ tensive patients with type 1 diabetes, independent of blood pressure level (158). A statistically significant 50% reduction in the progression of diabetic retinopathy was observed in those taking lisinopril, which remained after adjustment for glycemic control. Progression to PDR was also reduced, although the relation was not statistically significant. No significant interaction with blood glucose control was noted. These findings suggest that angio­ tensin-converting enzyme inhibitors might have a beneficial effect independent of lowering blood pressure (159). The DIabetic REtinopathy Candesartan Trials (DIRECT) consisted of three randomized double-masked, parallel, placebo-controlled studies that aimed to determine the impact of treatment with candesartan, an angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker, on the incidence and progression of diabetic retinopathy over a 4-year period (160,161,164). The DIRECT-Prevent 1 involved prevention of incident diabetic retinopathy, while the DIRECT-Protect 1 involved protection against progression of diabetic retinop­ athy in normoalbuminuric normotensive individuals with type 1 diabetes. The third trial, the DIRECT-Protect 2, aimed to show whether candesartan protected against progression of diabetic retinopathy in persons with type 2 diabetes who were normoalbuminuric and either normoten­ sive or only mildly hypertensive (162,164). In the DIRECT-Prevent 1, candesartan had Epidemiology of Ocular Functions and Diseases in Persons With Diabetes 21–25 a borderline effect (p=0.0508), reducing the incidence of diabetic retinopathy by two or more steps on the ETDRS severity scale by 18%. In post-hoc analyses, cande­ sartan reduced the incidence of diabetic retinopathy by three or more steps by 35% (HR 0.65, 95% CI 0.40–0.87) in the DIRECT-Prevent 1. In the DIRECT-Protect 1 and 2, candesartan had no statistically significant
