Chapter 21: Epidemiology of Ocular Functions and Diseases in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, retinopathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, persons, diabetic retinopathy, years, age, incidence, visual, wesdr, study, risk, persons type


of diabetic retinopathy by three or more steps by 35% (HR 0.65, 95% CI 0.40–0.87) in the DIRECT-Prevent 1. In the DIRECT-Protect 1 and 2, candesartan had no statistically significant effect on the progression of diabetic retinopathy in persons with minimal to moderate NPDR at baseline. Thus, the DIRECT did not achieve the prespecified primary endpoint in any of the three trials. The ADVANCE study aimed to show whether lowering of blood pressure via a combination of perindopril and indapamide provided additional benefit beyond intensive glycemic control in preventing macrovascular and micro­ vascular complications of diabetes (157). Although mean systolic and diastolic blood pressure reduction by 5.6 mmHg and 2.2 mmHg, respectively, was achieved, there was no reduction in the 4-year incidence or progression of diabetic retinopathy (5.2% in both treatment and placebo groups). The Renin-Angiotensin System Study (RASS) was a multicenter controlled trial involving normotensive patients with type 1 diabetes and normoalbuminuria who were randomly assigned to receive losartan, enalapril, or placebo and followed for 5 years (163). The RASS showed that compared with placebo, the odds of diabetic retinopathy progression by two or more steps was reduced by 65% with enalapril (OR 0.35, 95% CI 0.14–0.85) and by 70% with losartan (OR 0.30, 95% CI 0.12–0.73), independent of changes in blood pressure. These clinical trial data show a protective effect on incidence of diabetic retinop­ athy by angiotensin inhibitors or receptor blockers in normotensive, normoalbu­ minuric persons with no retinopathy and an inconsistent effect on progression in those with early to moderate NPDR. It is not known why the RASS, DIRECT, and ADVANCE did not consistently show a beneficial effect of specific angioten­ sin-converting enzyme treatment on diabetic retinopathy outcomes. Proteinuria and Diabetic Nephropathy Diabetic nephropathy and diabetic reti­ nopathy have been consistently shown to be associated in epidemiologic studies (59,63,68,70,85,98,111,112,165,166). Abnormalities in rheological, platelet, and lipid metabolism found in persons with diabetic nephropathy have been hypoth­ esized to have a role in the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy. Persons with type 1 diabetes in the WESDR with gross proteinuria at baseline had approximately twice the risk of PDR developing over 4 years compared to those without (166). After adjusting for other risk factors, the relationship was attenuated and of border­ line significance. For those in the WESDR with type 2 diabetes taking insulin, while adjusting for risk factors, the relative risk was 2, and for those not taking
