Chapter 21: Epidemiology of Ocular Functions and Diseases in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, retinopathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, persons, diabetic retinopathy, years, age, incidence, visual, wesdr, study, risk, persons type


of border­ line significance. For those in the WESDR with type 2 diabetes taking insulin, while adjusting for risk factors, the relative risk was 2, and for those not taking insulin, it was 1. In the Pittsburgh Epidemiology of Diabetes Complications study, while adjusting for other risk factors, those with type 1 diabetes who had microalbumin­ uria or overt nephropathy at entry in the study were more likely to develop PDR over a 2-year follow-up than those without microalbuminuria (167). However, in that study, diabetic nephropathy at baseline was not associated with diabetic retinop­ athy progression. Based on these findings, gross proteinuria appears to behave as a risk indicator for PDR in persons with type 1 diabetes. These findings suggest that patients with type 1 diabetes and signs of nephropathy may benefit from being more closely followed with ophthalmologic examinations with pupil dilation. However, no clinical trial data have shown that interventions that prevent or slow diabetic nephropathy will do the same for the progression of diabetic retinopathy. Serum Lipids and Lipid Lowering Hard exudate, a lipoprotein deposit in the retina, is often associated with macular edema and CSME resulting in visual impairment (23). Elevated plasma triglycerides and lipids in some studies have been shown to be related to the pres­ ence of retinal hard exudates (168). Serum total cholesterol has been shown to be directly associated with the prevalence and incidence of retinal hard exudates in persons with type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes (169). Having the epsilon4 allele polymorphism of the apolipoprotein E gene was associated with a higher prev­ alence of severe retinal hard exudates in Mexican persons with type 2 diabetes (170). Most data showing the efficacy of statins on macular edema are from small pilot studies (135,171,172,173). One of the few larger trials to examine this relation­ ship is the ACCORD Lipid study. In the trial, persons with type 2 diabetes were randomized to be treated with either feno­ fibrate or placebo. The protocol included the use of open-label background simvas­ tatin therapy administered in accordance with current guidelines (20–40 mg/day, depending on observed low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol values and whether the participant had had a clinical cardiovascular event). The rate of progression of diabetic retinopathy at 4 years was 6.5% in the fenofibrate treat­ ment group compared to 10.2% in the placebo group (adjusted OR 0.60, 95% CI 0.42–0.87, p=0.006). These findings are
