Chapter 21: Epidemiology of Ocular Functions and Diseases in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, retinopathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, persons, diabetic retinopathy, years, age, incidence, visual, wesdr, study, risk, persons type


high blood pressure) was cross-sectionally associ­ ated with retinopathy (OR 1.68, 95% CI 1.44–1.96) while adjusting for age, sex, race, education, smoking status, and alcohol consumption. Retinopathy in that study was shown to be related to higher blood pressure, fasting glucose, higher triglyceride levels, and lower high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol in people without hypertension or diabetes (181). A cross-sectional association of the metabolic syndrome with retinopathy was also found in the NHANES III but the relationship was not independent of diabetes status (182). There are few population-based data regarding the rela­ tionship of the metabolic syndrome to the incidence of retinopathy (183). Age Persons in the WESDR with type 2 diabetes who were taking insulin were less likely to develop or have any progression of diabetic retinopathy over 4 years if they were younger. However, older persons with type 2 diabetes (age ≥75 years) had decreased progression to PDR over a 10-year period compared to younger persons (age 30–44 years) at baseline (97). Improvement of diabetic retinopathy (regression) tended to increase with age (97). Few persons with type 2 diabetes age ≥75 years developed PDR over the 10 years of follow-up in the WESDR. These findings are consistent with those of other population-based studies (26,48,83) and reflect less severe disease in people who develop type 2 diabetes later in life. They might also be a result of selective survival (i.e., older persons who develop severe retinopathy are more likely to die and not participate at follow-up examinations). Sex After adjusting for other factors, a consistent difference in the prevalence, incidence, and progression of diabetic reti­ nopathy has not been observed between men and women with type 1 diabetes or type 2 diabetes (95,97,98,100,111,112). Hormonal and Reproductive Exposures in Women Sex hormones have been hypothesized to heighten the risk of developing retinopathy after puberty, consistent with the higher incidence of diabetic retinopathy following menarche described earlier (146). However, increased estrogen levels do not seem to explain this finding. Neither use of oral contraceptives (which contain estro­ gens, as well as progestins) nor use of hormone replacement therapy appears to increase the risk of retinopathy (184,185). Pregnancy, a condition associated with high levels of estrogens, is associated with accelerated progression of reti­ nopathy. Klein et al. (186) followed two groups of women of similar age and duration of type 1 diabetes, one pregnant and the other not pregnant, for a time interval
