Chapter 21: Epidemiology of Ocular Functions and Diseases in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, retinopathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, persons, diabetic retinopathy, years, age, incidence, visual, wesdr, study, risk, persons type


nopathy. Klein et al. (186) followed two groups of women of similar age and duration of type 1 diabetes, one pregnant and the other not pregnant, for a time interval roughly equal to the length of the pregnancy; the pregnant women were more likely than the nonpregnant women to develop retinopathy if they had not previously had it, and for those who had already developed retinopathy, it was more likely to increase in severity. This association remained even while adjusting for glycemia and blood pressure levels. This may occur in women with type 2 diabetes, as well as women with type 1 diabetes (187). Others have reported similar findings (188,189). Additionally, progression of diabetic retinopathy was found to be more likely to occur in diabetic women with preeclampsia than in those without (190). Although glycemia and blood pressure levels are important factors related to progression of retinop­ athy in pregnant women (191), as well as nonpregnant women, pregnancy in all likelihood accelerates the process. Progression of retinopathy in pregnancy was found by other investigators to be related to prior duration of diabetes (192,193). Though not a novel finding, as duration of diabetes is a risk factor for progression of diabetic retinopathy regardless of pregnancy status, it may be helpful to keep in mind when devel­ oping follow-up plans for eye care during pregnancy. Women with moderate to severe NPDR may consider laser treatment before becoming pregnant to protect against progression of diabetic retinopathy during pregnancy (194); however, no clinical trials have yet tested the efficacy of this approach. Diabetic macular edema that occurs during pregnancy is another poten­ tially sight-threatening complication that may benefit from laser treatment, but it is not known how many women might expe­ rience remission of macular edema after giving birth (195). Limited data point to the possibility that insulin-like growth factor 1 levels in serum are associated with progression of diabetic retinopathy during pregnancy (196,197). In a study of the vasocon­ strictor endothelin-1, which is elevated in persons with hypertension and diabetes, diabetic women had higher levels of endo­ thelin-1 in pregnancy than nondiabetic women in the same trimester, but it was Epidemiology of Ocular Functions and Diseases in Persons With Diabetes 21–27 not related to severity of diabetic reti­ nopathy (198). However, due to its small sample size, this study cannot be consid­ ered conclusive. The number of past pregnancies was unrelated to the
