Chapter 21: Epidemiology of Ocular Functions and Diseases in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, retinopathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, persons, diabetic retinopathy, years, age, incidence, visual, wesdr, study, risk, persons type


to severity of diabetic reti­ nopathy (198). However, due to its small sample size, this study cannot be consid­ ered conclusive. The number of past pregnancies was unrelated to the severity of diabetic reti­ nopathy in women with type 1 diabetes in the WESDR (185). Another study in Finland similarly found that second and subsequent pregnancies did not affect severity of retinopathy (199). These data may be interpreted to suggest that pregnancy imparts a transient increased risk for incidence or progression of reti­ nopathy. However, since more severe or more complicated diabetes can result in decreased fertility, it is possible that women with diabetes who sustain multiple pregnancies are more robust or have lower levels of risk factors for progression of retinopathy. Smoking Smoking causes tissue hypoxia by increasing blood carbon monoxide levels; it also increases platelet aggregation and adhesiveness, two mechanisms hypothesized to be involved in the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy (200,201). However, data from the WESDR and from most other epidemio­ logic studies have shown no relationship between smoking and the incidence or progression of diabetic retinopathy (48,63,70,85,202,203,204,205). In the WESDR, the amount of cigarettes smoked at baseline was univariately associated with the 25-year cumulative incidence of macular edema (OR for ≥15 pack-years vs. none 1.67, 95% CI 1.03–2.69, p=0.04). However, when adjusting for other factors, this association was no longer statistically significant. Regardless of the absence of an associ­ ation with diabetic retinopathy, persons with diabetes should be counseled not to smoke because of an increased risk of developing cancer, as well as cardio­ vascular and respiratory diseases. In the WESDR, after adjusting for other risk factors, persons with type 1 diabetes who smoked were nearly 2.5 times more likely and persons with type 2 diabetes who smoked were approximately 1.5 times more likely to die sooner than persons who did not smoke (43). Alcohol Consumption In the WESDR, alcohol consumption was associated with a lower prevalence of PDR in persons with type 1 diabetes (206). However, no relationship was found between alcohol consumption and the 6-year incidence of diabetic retinopathy, its progression by two or more steps, or its progression to PDR or macular edema in persons with type 1 or type 2 diabetes (207). Data from other studies also did not show a consistent relation of alcohol consumption to the incidence and progression of diabetic retinopathy (69,74,208,209,210,211). The lack of a consistent positive relationship of
