Chapter 21: Epidemiology of Ocular Functions and Diseases in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, retinopathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, persons, diabetic retinopathy, years, age, incidence, visual, wesdr, study, risk, persons type


from other studies also did not show a consistent relation of alcohol consumption to the incidence and progression of diabetic retinopathy (69,74,208,209,210,211). The lack of a consistent positive relationship of alcohol consumption with the incidence and progression of diabetic retinopathy is contrary to expectations, as moderate alcohol consumption improves glycemic control, reduces inflammation, and decreases platelet aggregation and adhesiveness. All of these mechanisms are hypothesized to exert possible protec­ tive effects in reducing the incidence and progression of diabetic retinopathy (212,213,214). While adjusting for other risk factors, reduced mortality from CVD was found in persons with type 2 diabetes in the WESDR who consumed an average of one serving of alcohol per day (215). If there are no contraindications, modest alcohol consumption (e.g., one glass of wine per day) may have a protective effect against CVD in persons with diabetes. Physical Activity Only weak evidence has been found showing a benefit of physical activity in reducing the incidence and progres­ sion of diabetic retinopathy in type 1 or type 2 diabetes (178,216,217,218,219). Physical activity’s beneficial effect on glycemic control would be expected to result in a lower incidence of diabetic retinopathy (219). No relationship was observed between participating in team sports in high school or college and a history of laser treatment or blindness in persons with type 1 diabetes (178); physical activity in youth did not relate to complications of diabetes (217,218). In the WESDR, participation in team sports by women diagnosed with type 1 diabetes before age 14 years was inversely associated with the incidence of PDR (216). Physical activity or leisure time energy expenditure was not associated with the presence or severity of diabetic retinopathy in men. Additionally, physical activity was not associated with either an increased or decreased risk of progression of diabetic retinopathy or the development of PDR over a 6-year interval in persons with type 1 diabetes (220). However, in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) Study, while adjusting for other factors, persons with type 2 diabetes and a history of work-related physical activity above the median level were less likely to have diabetic retinopathy (OR 0.69, 95% CI 0.51–0.93) compared to those below the median (221). Race/Ethnicity A growing number of epidemiologic studies have compared the prevalence of diabetic retinopathy among different racial/ethnic groups in the United States. Data from the New Jersey 725 study cohort showed that the prevalence of any retinopathy
