Chapter 21: Epidemiology of Ocular Functions and Diseases in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, retinopathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, persons, diabetic retinopathy, years, age, incidence, visual, wesdr, study, risk, persons type


retinopathy for a given duration of type 2 diabetes compared to whites (49,55). However, a study in Pima Indians in Arizona reported lower cumulative incidence and progression of diabetic retinopathy (17% and 18%, respectively) than in whites with type 2 diabetes (227). Few data are available on the prevalence and none on the incidence of diabetic retinopathy in Asian Americans and other racial/ethnic groups (52,56,57,225). In the MESA, the prevalences of diabetic retinopathy in Chinese Americans and whites were similar (26% vs. 25%), but prevalences of CSME and PDR were higher in Chinese Americans (3% and 5%, respectively) than in whites (2% and 2.6%, respectively) with type 2 diabetes (225). More data on the prevalence and inci­ dence of retinopathy in Chinese and other Asian American groups are needed. Genetic Factors In identical twins, the time of appearance of diabetic retinopathy and its severity are more likely to be similar than in dizygotic twins (228). This suggests a possible role of genetic factors in the development of diabetic retinopathy. Familial clustering studies also suggest that genetic factors may contribute to the susceptibility to diabetic retinopathy (229,230). The polygenic heritability for PDR was approx­ imately 25% in the Family Investigation of Nephropathy and Diabetes-Eye study sample (231). In a cohort of Pima Indians with type 2 diabetes in Starr County, Texas, the heritability was 18% (232). However, few single nucleotide polymorphisms have been shown to be strongly or consistently associated with diabetic retinopathy. This may be due, in part, to relationships of glycemia and blood pressure to retinopathy, which are controllable by intensive treatment, resulting in a stronger effect than genetic factors on whether diabetic retinopathy develops and progresses. Another reason may be that the earliest stages of diabetic retinopathy, manifest by the presence of retinal microaneurysms and blot hemor­ rhages, are not specific to glycemia. They may also be manifestations of other conditions, such as severe hypertension. Thus, their presence in the absence of signs of more severe retinopathy (e.g., intra-retinal microvascular abnormalities, retinal venous beading) and proliferative disease may also contribute to weaker, less consistent relationships of candidate genes with early diabetic retinopathy compared to more severe diabetic reti­ nopathy (233). Associations of diabetic retinopathy with mitochondrial DNA mutations (234), polymorphisms of the aldose reductase gene (235,236), endothelial nitric oxide synthase gene (237), paraoxonase (an enzyme that prevents oxidation of LDL cholesterol) gene (238), TNF-beta NcoI gene (239), epsilon4
