Chapter 21: Epidemiology of Ocular Functions and Diseases in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, retinopathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, persons, diabetic retinopathy, years, age, incidence, visual, wesdr, study, risk, persons type


(234), polymorphisms of the aldose reductase gene (235,236), endothelial nitric oxide synthase gene (237), paraoxonase (an enzyme that prevents oxidation of LDL cholesterol) gene (238), TNF-beta NcoI gene (239), epsilon4 allele of apolipopro­ tein E gene (170), intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (240), alpha2beta1 integrin gene (involved with platelet function) (241), and cytokine vascular endothelial growth factor gene have been shown in some studies but have not been consistently replicated (242,243,244,245). Socioeconomic Status More education and higher income would be expected to be associated with lower incidence and progression of diabetic retinopathy secondary to better understanding and management of the disease and its complications and increased accessibility to better medical care, respectively. However, inconsistent relationships between socioeconomic status and retinopathy severity have been reported (36,85,86,104,246,247). Haffner et al. (246) did not find a rela­ tionship between socioeconomic status (measured using a combination of the Duncan Index, educational attainment, and income) and severe diabetic reti­ nopathy in 343 Mexican Americans and 79 non-Hispanic whites with type 2 diabetes in San Antonio, Texas. West et al. (85) also did not observe a rela­ tionship between diabetic retinopathy severity and education level in a popu­ lation of Oklahoma Indians with type 2 diabetes. However, in the Proyecto VER cohort of Mexican Americans with type 2 diabetes, low income, once adjusted for other factors, was cross-sectionally associated with PDR (OR 3.93, 95% CI 1.31–11.80) (86). In the New Jersey 725, low socioeconomic status was significantly associated with the 6-year incidence of macular edema but not incidence or progression of diabetic retinopathy. In that study, education, income, medical or eye care, and health insurance status at baseline were not significantly different between persons with and without macular edema at follow-up. Except for an association of lower 4-year incidence of PDR in women with type 1 diabetes age ≥25 years with more education, socioeconomic status (as measured by higher education level 21–30 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition and Duncan Socioeconomic Index score) was otherwise not associated with risk of developing PDR in the WESDR (36). The absence of a relationship of socioeco­ nomic status and diabetic retinopathy severity in the WESDR and San Antonio studies may be related to the lack of an association of socioeconomic status to glycemic control in these cohorts. COMORBIDITY AND MORTALITY In the WESDR, the risk of developing macrovascular systemic complica­ tions (e.g., heart attack, stroke, lower limb amputation) and microvascular complications was
