Chapter 21: Epidemiology of Ocular Functions and Diseases in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, retinopathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, persons, diabetic retinopathy, years, age, incidence, visual, wesdr, study, risk, persons type


glycemic control in these cohorts. COMORBIDITY AND MORTALITY In the WESDR, the risk of developing macrovascular systemic complica­ tions (e.g., heart attack, stroke, lower limb amputation) and microvascular complications was higher in those with PDR compared to those with no or minimal diabetic retinopathy at baseline (Table 21.22) (248). In those with type 1 diabetes, while adjusting for age and sex, diabetic retinopathy severity was asso­ ciated with all-cause and ischemic heart disease mortality. In persons with type 2 diabetes, diabetic retinopathy severity was associated with all-cause and ischemic heart disease mortality and stroke (44). While adjusting for systemic factors, the relations remained only for all-cause and stroke mortality in persons with type 2 diabetes. These findings suggest that severe diabetic retinopathy is an indicator for increased risk of death from ischemic heart disease and may identify individuals who should be under care for CVD. This association has been reported by others (249,250,251). The higher risk of CVD in persons with more severe diabetic retinopathy may be partially due to the association of severe retinopathy with CVD risk factors, such as hyperglycemia, hypertension, platelet aggregation, and diabetic nephropathy with chronic kidney disease. Adults with type 1 diabetes with poor glycemic control have been shown to manifest a distinctive pattern of cognitive dysfunction characterized primarily by poor performance on tasks requiring psychomotor speed (252,253,254). Patients with diabetic retinopathy were more likely to manifest psychomotor slowing than patients without retinopathy (255,256,257). The relationship of diabetic retinopathy to cognitive dysfunction in persons with type 2 diabetes has not been consistently shown (258,259,260). NEW MEDICAL INTERVENTIONS FOR TREATMENT Since the last edition of Diabetes in America was published, findings from randomized controlled clinical trials have provided evidence showing the efficacy of treatments in addition to hypoglycemic agents to prevent or retard progress of retinal complications of diabetes (135,158,163,174,261). Angiotensin- converting enzyme inhibitors targeting the renin-angiotensin system and the lowering of uncontrolled blood pressure have been shown in some studies (e.g., the RASS, EUCLID, and UKPDS) to reduce the risk of progression of diabetic retinopathy, as noted above (155,158,163). Fenofibrates have also been shown to reduce the incidence and progression of diabetic retinopathy, possibly through a reduction of triglycerides (174). However, random­ ized controlled clinical trials of inhibitors of aldose reductase, protein kinase C, and metalloproteinases have not shown efficacy in preventing the incidence and progression of diabetic retinopathy in persons with diabetes (262). Controlled
