Chapter 21: Epidemiology of Ocular Functions and Diseases in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, retinopathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, persons, diabetic retinopathy, years, age, incidence, visual, wesdr, study, risk, persons type


American Diabetes Association, reprinted with permission Epidemiology of Ocular Functions and Diseases in Persons With Diabetes 21–31 those with type 2 diabetes taking insulin could achieve cost savings. Conversely, the incremental number of sight-years to be gained in those with type 2 diabetes not taking insulin, even by annual ophthalmo­ logic examination with fundus photography, was reported to be small. Despite being an important cause of vision loss, macular edema was not included in the analysis. New analyses of NHANES and NHIS data on eye examinations among persons with diabetes were conducted for Diabetes in America. In the NHANES 2005–2008, 92.7% and 98.8% of those age ≥40 years with diagnosed diabetes and PDR ascertained by grading of retinal fundus photographs self-reported having had their pupils dilated within 1 year and 2 years, respectively, of being examined (Table 21.23). Comparisons of race/ ethnicity and severity of diabetic retinop­ athy related to the time since the pupils were self-reported to be dilated among people age ≥40 years with diagnosed diabetes are limited due to small sample size. In the NHIS 2008, in non-Hispanic white persons with self-reported retinop­ athy with vision loss, 79% of those with self-reported diabetes said they had seen an eye doctor in the last 12 months, and 82% had had their pupils dilated within the last year (Table 21.24). Compared with non-Hispanic whites, Hispanics with retinopathy with vision loss were less likely and non-Hispanic blacks with vision loss were more likely to have seen an eye doctor or have had their pupils dilated within the last 12 months. Despite a strong effort to improve compliance with the American Diabetes Association guidelines, compliance remains poor due to specific physician and patient factors (268,269,270). In one study, 52% of primary care physicians reported that they performed in-office ophthalmoscopy, 90% of which was through undilated pupils, an approach shown in other studies to have limited sensitivity for detecting vision-threatening retinopathy (268). Of persons in the WESDR cohort who had not had a dilated eye examination in the previous year, 31% of those with type 1 diabetes and 35% of those with type 2 diabetes reported not being told by their primary care physi­ cians that they needed one (269). Patient factors also explain some of the lack of adherence to guidelines for dilated eye examinations. In the WESDR, among those not having a dilated eye examina­ tion in the previous year,
