Chapter 21: Epidemiology of Ocular Functions and Diseases in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, retinopathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, persons, diabetic retinopathy, years, age, incidence, visual, wesdr, study, risk, persons type


self-reported diagnosis. Standardized to the National Health Interview Survey 2008 total population using age categories 40–64, 65–74, and ≥75 years. AMD, age-related macular degeneration; NA, not applicable. * P-value compared to analogous 2002 estimate <0.05. SOURCE: National Health Interview Surveys 2002 and 2008 21–36 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition improvement was not as great in those who developed central macular edema. The incidence of operative complications appears to be increased in persons with diabetes (285). Endophthalmitis appears to be more common after complicated intraocular surgery in those with diabetes than others (286,287). In summary, cataract and cataract surgery are more prevalent in persons with diabetes. While the level of glycemia significantly influences the risk of cataract, it is likely that even with optimal glycemic control, there will be increased risk asso­ ciated with diabetes. Ophthalmologists, as well as health care planners, must be mindful of the costs of care associated with cataract, cataract surgery, and reha­ bilitation in persons with diabetes. OPEN ANGLE GLAUCOMA Glaucoma is a condition in which there is evidence of optic nerve damage attributed to intraocular pressure that is presumably too high for a particular eye. Prevalence data from the NHIS 2002 and 2008 analyzed for Diabetes in America indicate that persons with diabetes self-reported glaucoma more commonly than nondi­ abetic persons in the U.S. population (Table 21.32). Glaucoma has been defined in various ways in different studies. Some researchers include as cases all those with a history of glaucoma irrespective of treatment status. Some include only those with a history of medical or surgical intervention, while others depend on defined objective criteria. Another consid­ eration to bear in mind when reviewing published data is that some studies do not distinguish between the various types of glaucoma (open angle, closed angle, neovascular, or other primary or secondary types of glaucoma). In the BDES, definite glaucoma was defined by the presence of at least two of the following three characteristics: abnormal visual field, large or asymmetric cupping of the optic nerve, and an intraoc­ ular pressure >21 mmHg (288). Probable glaucoma was defined as a history of medical treatment or surgery for glau­ coma with fewer than two of the above criteria. In a multiple logistic regression model, after adjusting for age and sex, the relationship of the presence of type 2 diabetes to glaucoma was evaluated. Diabetes was significantly associated with prevalence of definite glaucoma (adjusting
