Chapter 21: Epidemiology of Ocular Functions and Diseases in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, retinopathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, persons, diabetic retinopathy, years, age, incidence, visual, wesdr, study, risk, persons type


with type 2 diabetes than in controls without diabetes (294). Rosenberg et al. (295) using confocal microscopy demonstrated in another case-control study that there was a reduc­ tion in the number of long nerve fiber bundles in persons with type 1 diabetes and mild to moderate neuropathy and that mechanical sensitivity was reduced in those with severe neuropathy. The corneal epithelium was thinner in those with severe neuropathy than in persons with diabetes without neuropathy. The authors speculated that this may lead to recurrent erosions, a painful condition that usually impairs vision and the ability to accomplish vision-related tasks until the erosion heals. Few epidemiologic data have been reported on the prevalence and inci­ dence of corneal lesions associated with diabetes. However, clinical reports suggest that corneal ulcers occur more commonly in persons with type 1 diabetes than in those without (296), and ophthalmic surgeons have noted that persons with diabetes are predisposed to significant corneal complications requiring treatment after undergoing pars plana vitrectomy (297,298,299). Dry eye is diagnosed largely by the history of a scratchy or burning sensation of the eye. Occasionally, it is associated with short-term changes in vision. Usually, this is a minor annoyance, but it can cause considerable distress when it is extreme and can affect quality of life. Dry eye is more common in persons with diabetes than in those without (300,301). This is thought to be due to ocular surface disor­ ders that are more common in persons who have diabetes (302). In prevalence data from the population-based BDES, Moss et al. reported an odds ratio of 1.38 (95% CI 1.03–1.86) for a history of dry eye in the presence of diabetes (303). Contact lens use in the presence of diabetes is associated with lower corneal endothelial cell count than occurs in persons with diabetes who do not use contact lenses and in individuals without diabetes who do not wear contact lenses (304). Endothelial cells are needed to maintain normal (low) hydration of the cornea that is important in maintaining clarity of vision. However, March et al. reported no significant difference in complications of contact lens wearers between 254 persons with diabetes and an equal number of controls (305). NONARTERITIC ANTERIOR ISCHEMIC OPTIC NEUROPATHY Nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neurop­ athy (NAION) is an uncommon condition occurring in about 8,000 persons each year in the United States (306). It typi­ cally occurs in persons age
