Chapter 21: Epidemiology of Ocular Functions and Diseases in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, retinopathy, diabetic, type, type diabetes, persons, diabetic retinopathy, years, age, incidence, visual, wesdr, study, risk, persons type


Nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neurop­ athy (NAION) is an uncommon condition occurring in about 8,000 persons each year in the United States (306). It typi­ cally occurs in persons age ≥50 years and often manifests as decreased vision in one eye noted upon awakening. The vision may be obscured in the upper or lower half of vision, or it may be obscured throughout the field of vision. The condi­ tion is painless. Vision improves over the next 6 months or so in about half the cases. NAION has been thought to be related to cardiovascular risk factors. Some speculate that crowding of neurons at the optic nerve is a predisposing characteristic. Lee et al. studied Medicare records of 25,515 patients with diabetes and an equal number of age- and sex-matched nondiabetic controls (307). They found that after adjusting for covariates, persons with diabetes had a 40% increased risk of developing NAION compared to persons without diabetes (OR 1.40, 95% CI 1.12– 1.75). Further, a repeat episode of NAION 21–38 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition was more likely to occur in persons with diabetes than in those without (308). It is not known whether the actual level of glycemic control influences risk, although if its etiology is vascular, one might antici­ pate that this is so. RETINAL VEIN OCCLUSION Retinal vein occlusion has been estimated to affect about 1% of the population age >50 years and can lead to loss of visual acuity in the affected eye (309,310). Diabetes has been recognized as a risk factor for retinal vein occlusions (311,312,313,314). Central vein occlusion is associated with decreased vision and may be complicated by retinal neovascu­ larization requiring laser photocoagulation. Cugati et al. (314) reported that in persons age <70 years, retinal vein occlusion was associated with increased cardiovascular mortality. RETINAL ARTERIOLAR EMBOLI Retinal emboli are often found in the retinal arterioles, and their appearance can vary from dull to highly refractile. In about 75% of persons, the emboli arise from athero­ sclerotic plaques in the carotid artery (315). Most emboli are transient and are often asymptomatic. They are estimated to occur in 1%–1.5% of the population age ≥40 years (316,317). In the BDES, persons with type 2 diabetes had a twofold higher prevalence of retinal emboli than people without diabetes. However, in two other populations, this association was not found (318,319). AGE-RELATED MACULAR DEGENERATION Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the
