Wang et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2024) 24:879 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infection, children, flu, tract, infections, respiratory tract, positive, pathogens, acute, rsv, rate, adv, virus, epidemic


ADV infections are more common in older children, RSV infection was more common in younger children; Flu A, Flu B, RSV and MP infection and the co infection of more than two pathogens may more easily lead to the occurrence of severe pneumonia. Keywords Respiratory tract infection in children, Influenza A virus, Influenza B virus, Respiratory syncytial virus, Adenovirus, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Epidemiological characteristics Introduction Subjects and methods Acute respiratory infection (ARI) can be divided into Objective upper respiratory tract infections and lower respira- A total of 11,538 children with respiratory tract infec- tory tract infections based on the site of infection. tions admitted to Luoyang Maternal and Child Health Upper respiratory tract infections include the common Hospital from December 2022 to November 2023 were cold, acute pharyngitis, laryngitis, acute tonsillitis, selected as the study subjects. The main symptoms and other related conditions, while lower respiratory included cough, sore throat, headache, fever, dyspnea, tract infections include acute pneumonia and bron- and other respiratory tract infection symptoms. Among chitis .ARI is mostly caused by influenza A virus them, 6,436 were male and 5,102 were female, with an (Flu A), influenza B virus (Flu B), adenovirus (ADV), average age of 5.93 ± 1.82 years (range, 0–16 years). The Mycoplasma pneumoniae (MP), and other pathogens types of diseases included acute tonsillitis, acute laryn- that enter the human nasal cavity, throat, tonsils, and gitis, acute angina, bronchopneumonia, acute tracheitis, other parts, leading to inflammation. This can result community-acquired pneumonia, lobar pneumonia, and in symptoms such as fever, throat discomfort, hoarse- others. ness, cough, expectoration, and others . Some patients may also experience severe symptoms such as shortness of breath, chest pain, and hemoptysis, which Inclusion criteria can pose a serious threat to their health . According The diagnosis of respiratory tract infection meets the rel- dren die each year due to complications caused by res- rics (8th Edition). piratory diseases, particularly in developing countries The diagnosis of children in the severe pneumonia . The trend of respiratory pathogens in children group met the diagnostic criteria for severe cases as per in China has changed before and after the pandemic. the Guidelines for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Myco- In early 2023, with the adjustment and appropriate plasma Pneumoniae Pneumonia in Children (2023 Edi- relaxation of national epidemic prevention policies, tion). The criteria include meeting any of the following multiple outbreaks of respiratory pathogens occurred conditions:
