Wang et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2024) 24:879 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infection, children, flu, tract, infections, respiratory tract, positive, pathogens, acute, rsv, rate, adv, virus, epidemic


appropriate plasma Pneumoniae Pneumonia in Children (2023 Edi- relaxation of national epidemic prevention policies, tion). The criteria include meeting any of the following multiple outbreaks of respiratory pathogens occurred conditions: in various regions . There are also differences in the types and epidemic characteristics of pathogens • Continuous high fever (above 39 °C) for ≥ 5 days or across different areas and medical institutions . fever for ≥ 7 days with no downward trend in peak In this study, five common respiratory pathogens were temperature. detected in children with respiratory tract infections • Presence of one or more of the following symptoms: tal from December 2022 to November 2023. The aim or hemoptysis. was to analyze the relevant epidemiological character- • Occurrence of extrapulmonary complications that do istics and provide a scientific basis for the prevention not meet the criteria for critical illness. and treatment of respiratory tract infections in chil- • Pulse oxygen saturation ≤ 0.93 at rest while breathing dren in this region. This study holds significant value room air. for doctors and public health departments in formu- • Imaging findings of any of the following: lating more effective prevention strategies, optimizing high-density consolidation, or two or more lobes with high-density consolidation (regardless of the size of the involved area), potentially accompanied drawn within 1–7 days after the onset of the disease, and by moderate to massive pleural effusion or local- the serum was collected by centrifugation (3500 rpm, ized bronchiolitis. 10 min). The detection was performed using a kit pro- • Diffuse or bilateral bronchiolitis involving ≥ 4/5 of duced by Wantai Biopharmaceutical Co., Ltd. lobes in one lung, possibly complicated by bron- Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction chitis and mucus plug formation leading to atelec- (RT-PCR) was used to detect the nucleic acids of the tasis. five pathogens in the respiratory tract. The nucleic acid 50% within 24–48 h. copies/ml indicating a positive result. • Significant elevation of one or more of the follow- ing: C-reactive protein (CRP), lactate dehydroge- Statistical analysis nase (LDH), or D-dimer. SPSS 25.0 statistical software was used for data analy- sis. The number of cases (n) and percentages (%) of the categorical data were reported. The Chi-square test was Exclusion criteria employed for comparing rates, with a p-value of < 0.05 considered statistically significant. • Combined immunodeficiency disease. Results • Congenital organ dysfunction or hematopoietic dys- function. Detection of respiratory pathogens
