Wang et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2024) 24:879 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infection, children, flu, tract, infections, respiratory tract, positive, pathogens, acute, rsv, rate, adv, virus, epidemic


employed for comparing rates, with a p-value of < 0.05 considered statistically significant. • Combined immunodeficiency disease. Results • Congenital organ dysfunction or hematopoietic dys- function. Detection of respiratory pathogens using a five-joint test • Patients with other infectious diseases who have in children with respiratory tract infections from Decem- been taking hormones, immunosuppressive drugs, or ber 2022 to November 2023 revealed that among 11,538 other medications in the past 7 days. children, Flu A and Mycoplasma pneumoniae (MP) were • This study was approved by the medical ethics com- tive rates exceeding 20% (see Table 1). infections, which include diseases with acute inflam- mation of the nasal cavity, pharynx, or throat (such as Method tonsillitis, acute laryngitis, rhinitis, herpetic angina, and Data collection bacterial pharyngotonsillitis), were identified in 8,324 cases, accounting for 72.17%. Lower respiratory tract The medical records of the children were retrieved infections, involving the trachea, bronchus, and lungs (including acute tracheitis, pneumonia, and broncho- pneumonia), were identified in 3,214 cases, accounting laboratory test results from the respiratory tract panel, for 27.86%. The clinical diagnoses of all enrolled patients were collected. Positive results were defined as positive are shown in Table 2. findings from the respiratory tract panel’s antigen (anti- Among all enrolled children with respiratory tract body) or nucleic acid tests. infections, there were 5,102 females (44.22%) and 6,436 Testing procedures males (55.78%). The infection rates of Flu B, ADV, and MP were higher in males compared to females. There was The five joint tests for respiratory tract infections included detection of the following: Flu A antigen, Flu B antigen, RSV antigen, ADV antigen, MP antigen, or MP IgM antibody. Upon admission, throat swabs from the Table 1 The number and positive rate of infection with five patient’s posterior pharyngeal wall, tonsil crypts, lateral pathogens walls, and other areas were collected before medication Number of positive Positive rate (%) and immediately sent for inspection. The respiratory tract pentaplex test was performed Flu A 2387 20.69 using the colloidal gold method to detect antigens. The Flu B 51 0.4 reagent used was a kit produced by Hangzhou Innova- RSV 868 7.52 tive Biological Detection and Control Technology Co., ADV 1296 11.23 Ltd. For detecting IgM antibodies against Mycoplasma MP 2481 21.50 pneumoniae in children’s serum, the passive gel method Flu A is influenza A virus, Flu B is influenza B virus, ADV is adenovirus, RSV is was
