Wang et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2024) 24:879 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infection, children, flu, tract, infections, respiratory tract, positive, pathogens, acute, rsv, rate, adv, virus, epidemic


December to 8.77% in March, decreased to 2.79% in symptoms. Without timely treatment, these infections June, but rose again to 23.88% in November. can progress, especially in children, potentially leading • Flu B remained prevalent at low levels throughout to serious complications such as respiratory failure [12, the study period, with Flu A and MP being the main 13]. Furthermore, ARI patients with infections from mul- prevalent pathogens. tiple pathogens are more likely to experience symptoms such as cough, sore throat, shortness of breath, and dysp- Previous studies have indicated that RSV is prevalent nea compared to those with a single pathogen infection. from March to June in the Southern Hemisphere and Therefore, implementing targeted prevention and control from September to December in the Northern Hemi- strategies based on the epidemic characteristics of patho- sphere. This study observed that RSV was mainly prev- gens is essential for effective disease management. alent from March to May in the Northern Hemisphere, The results of this study indicated that from December suggesting an earlier prevalence than usual for the year 2022 to November 2023, five types of respiratory patho- following the epidemic [17–19]. After an initial peak in gens were prevalent among children. Upper respiratory infection from March to April, ADV showed a high-level tract infections were the most common, with tonsillitis epidemic state from August to November. Flu A and MP being the most frequent type. Flu A and Mycoplasma exhibited continuous prevalence across all four seasons, pneumoniae (MP) had the highest infection rates among with further outbreaks in spring and winter. ADV not the pathogens. Additionally, Flu B, ADV, and MP had only showed an early epidemic trend but also had a nota- higher infection rates in males compared to females . ble epidemic period in winter . Comparative analysis Among different age groups, children older than 6 years of respiratory pathogen detection data before and after had the highest infection rates of Flu A and MP, while the COVID-19 epidemic reveals significant differences the positive rate of RSV was highest in children aged in trends, reflecting changes in epidemic characteristics. 0–3 years. These findings are consistent with studies These findings provide valuable insights for the preven- from other regions, where RSV is predominantly preva- tion and treatment of respiratory infectious diseases in lent among younger children . In contrast, Flu A and children in this region. MP were primarily found
