Wang et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2024) 24:879 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infection, children, flu, tract, infections, respiratory tract, positive, pathogens, acute, rsv, rate, adv, virus, epidemic


RSV is predominantly preva- tion and treatment of respiratory infectious diseases in lent among younger children . In contrast, Flu A and children in this region. MP were primarily found in older children in this study, In this study, the infection rates among three groups of which aligns with results from neighboring areas. This children—those with upper respiratory tract infections, may be due to the school environment, which facilitates non-severe pneumonia, and severe pneumonia—were the spread of pathogens among this age group. How- compared. The results showed a progressive increase in ever, the study observed a predominance of infections infection rates, with co-infection of two or more patho- in males, which differs from other studies and may be gens being most prevalent among children with severe attributed to sample selection bias . pneumonia, reaching 63.68%. This indicates that a larger Different respiratory pathogens exhibit varying epide- scope of infection and more severe pneumonia are asso- miological patterns, typically showing seasonal epidemic ciated with higher pathogen infection rates. Co-infection characteristics influenced by factors such as environ- can severely impair immune function, leading to immune mental temperature, humidity, and air quality. This study, imbalance and extrapulmonary complications, which which began monitoring respiratory pathogen infections are highly detrimental to children . Additionally, in icy in January 2023, found that the prevalence of Flu A, mixed infections, can present with similar symptoms of acute respiratory tract infection in children, making them seasonal epidemic patterns, with trends of advancing or difficult to distinguish. This often leads to empirical anti- delaying the epidemic period. biotic use, particularly in infants. However, the misuse Preventive and protective measures are essential for of antibiotics can drive pathogen variation and contrib- infants and children of all ages, particularly those older ute to immune escape. Therefore, it is crucial to enhance than 3 years. Vaccination can help reduce infections and pathogen detection capabilities, ensure early diagnosis lower the risk of severe illness and death. and treatment, avoid antibiotic overuse, and prevent the This study has some limitations. Due to the high out- occurrence of multiple infections and severe pneumonia patient workload and staff shortages during the epidemic . outbreak season, the colloidal gold method was used for Additionally, during the COVID-19 epidemic, the rapid screening of some respiratory pathogens. How- response to national epidemic prevention policies ever, since the principle and sensitivity of the colloidal involved non-pharmacological interventions (NPIs), such gold
