Wang et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2024) 24:879 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infection, children, flu, tract, infections, respiratory tract, positive, pathogens, acute, rsv, rate, adv, virus, epidemic


epidemic, the rapid screening of some respiratory pathogens. How- response to national epidemic prevention policies ever, since the principle and sensitivity of the colloidal involved non-pharmacological interventions (NPIs), such gold method differ from those of the PCR method, this as home isolation, reduced population contact, and pro- may have led to missed detections . Future research longed mask-wearing . These measures may have led should address this limitation by optimizing the screen- to “immune debt”, potentially affecting children nega- ing methods and conducting studies with a larger sample tively once the pandemic is under control . During size and multiple centers. Abbreviations fear of infection, delaying treatment for other conditions. Flu A Influenza A virus This delay could weaken children’s immune systems and Flu B Influenza B virus ADV Adenovirus contribute to immune debt. Furthermore, NPIs reduced RSV Respiratory syncytial virus exposure to viruses and bacteria, leading to less immune MP Mycoplasma pneumoniae stimulation and training. This decrease in immune train- Acknowledgements ing and antibody levels increases children’s susceptibility Thanks to AP Shouting Lu of Luoyang Institute of Science and Technology for to infections, making them more prone to diseases . his support in the field of statistics for this paper. Meanwhile, we would like to kind and generous financial support towards achieving these study objectives. respiratory pathogens, such as Flu A, Flu B, ADV, and RSV, in children. Moreover, after the epidemic, previ- Authors’ contributions ously prevalent viruses might exhibit new variants, pos- All authors contributed equally to this work. Pingping Wang wrote the original draft. Jin Yao revised the manuscript. Zhanjun Zhang and Kenan ing additional challenges. This variation can decrease Fang supervised the investigation. Shouting Lu performed the data analysis. population immunity, potentially causing a resurgence in Xiaorong Huang translated the draft. All authors read and approved the final pediatric respiratory infections, which might contribute manuscript. to multiple infections and severe pneumonia . The Funding decline in vaccination coverage and the potential rise Henan Provincial Department of Education Humanities and Social Sciences in vaccine-preventable disease cases highlight the need Research Project, 2023-ZDJH-529. for strengthened supplementary vaccination efforts by Availability of data and materials epidemic prevention departments . Mathematical All data generated or analyzed during this study are included in this article. models suggest that the impact of immune debt could lead to more severe RSV and flu epidemics in the coming Declarations years. The results of this
