Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


effects, sexual problems or quality of life. Prostatic massage: we are uncertain whether the prostatic massage reduces or increases symptoms when compared with no massage. We found no information regarding side effects, sexual problems, quality of life, depression or anxiety. Extracorporeal shockwave therapy: we found that extracorporeal shockwave therapy (where shock waves are passed through the skin to the prostate) causes a significant decrease in symptoms compared to a simulated procedure. These results may not be lasting after more continued treatment. This treatment may not be associated with side effects. We have no information regarding quality of life, depression or anxiety. Transrectal thermotherapy compared to medical therapy: we found that transrectal thermotherapy (which applies heat to the prostate and pelvic muscle area) alone or in combination with medical therapy may cause a small decrease in symptoms compared to medical therapy alone. One of the included studies reported that participants may experience transient side effects. We have no information regarding sexual problems, quality of life, depression or anxiety. There is uncertainty about the effects of other interventions. Quality of the evidence The quality of the evidence was low in most cases, meaning that there is much uncertainty surrounding the results. The included studies were not well designed, had a small sample size and had a short follow-up time (usually 12 weeks). Non-pharmacological interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (Review) 3 Copyright © The Cochrane Collaboration. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Non-pharmacological interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (Review) S U M M A R Y O F F I N D I N G S Summary of findings for the main comparison. Acupuncture compared to sham procedure for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Acupuncture compared to sham procedure for chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Patient or population: participants with chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Setting: outpatient, Korea, Malaysia, US and Turkey Intervention: acupuncture Comparison: sham procedure placing needles in different points from those used in acupuncture Outcomes № of participants Quality of the evi- Relative effect Anticipated absolute effects* (95% CI) (studies) dence (95% CI) (GRADE) Risk with sham pro- Risk difference with cedure Acupuncture Prostatitis Symptoms 204 ⊕⊕⊕⊝ - The mean prostati- MD 5.79 lower assessed with: NIH-CPSI score (3 RCTs) Moderate 1 tis Symptoms ranged (7.32 lower to 4.26 lower) Scale from: 0 to 43 from 17.08 to 22 follow up: 6-8
