Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


of bias: insufficient information about allocation concealment 2 Downgraded 1 level due to inconsistency: statistical heterogeneity (I2 = 76%). 3 Downgraded 1 level due to imprecision issues: wide confidence interval due to small sample size and few events. 4 Downgraded 1 level for imprecision issues: wide confidence interval includes both appreciable benefit and harm. Summary of findings 2. Acupuncture compared to medical treatment for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Acupuncture compared to medical treatment for chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Patient or population: treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Setting: outpatient, Korea, China and Turkey Intervention: acupuncture Comparison: medical treatment Outcomes № of participants Quality of the evi- Relative effect Anticipated absolute effects* (95% CI) (studies) dence (95% CI) (GRADE) Risk with medical Risk difference with treatment acupuncture Prostatitis symptoms (NIH-CPSI total) 78 ⊕⊕⊕⊝ - The mean prostatitis MD 6.05 lower assessed with: NIH-CPSI score (2 RCTs) Moderate1,2 symptoms (NIH-CPSI (7.87 lower to 4.24 Scale from: 0 to 43 total) ranged from 12 lower) follow-up: 12 weeks to 16 Benefit is indicated by lower scores Prostatitis symptoms: response defined as a 6- 24 ⊕⊕⊝⊝ RR 3.57 Study population point decrease in NIH-CPSI score (1 RCT) Low1,3 (1.45 to 8.80) follow-up: 6 weeks3 250 per 1000 643 more per 1000 Library Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews Informed decisions. Cochrane Trusted evidence. Copyright © The Cochrane Collaboration. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Non-pharmacological interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (Review) (112 more to 1950 more) Adverse events 78 ⊕⊕⊝⊝ - There were no adverse events in either group. (2 RCTs) Low1,3 follow-up: 12 weeks Sexual dysfunction - not reported - - - - - Quality of life - not reported - - - - - Depression and anxiety - not reported - - - - - *The risk in the intervention group (and its 95% confidence interval) is based on the assumed risk in the comparison group and the relative effect of the intervention (and its 95% CI). CI: confidence interval; MD: mean difference; NIH-CPSI: National Institutes of Health - Chronic Prostatitis Symptom Index; RCT: randomised controlled trial; RR: risk ratio. GRADE Working Group grades of evidence High quality: we are very confident that the true effect lies close to that of the estimate of the effect. Moderate quality: we are moderately confident in the effect estimate: the true effect is likely to be close
