Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


true effect lies close to that of the estimate of the effect. Moderate quality: we are moderately confident in the effect estimate: the true effect is likely to be close to the estimate of the effect, but there is a possibility that it is sub- stantially different. Low quality: our confidence in the effect estimate is limited: the true effect may be substantially different from the estimate of the effect. Very low quality: we have very little confidence in the effect estimate: the true effect is likely to be substantially different from the estimate of effect. 1Downgraded 1 level due to risk of bias: included studies were not blinded, which affects both detection and performance bias. 2The initial analysis had greater statistical inconsistency (I2 = 70%) and included one study that included people with chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome using criteria that differed from that recommended by the Research Consensus . In a sensitivity analysis, we excluded the results from this study and found greater statistical consistency (I2 = 0%), therefore, we chose to report these results in the 'Summary of findings' table. For this reason, we did not downgrade due to inconsistency. 3Downgraded 1 level due to imprecision issues: few events and wide confidence interval. Summary of findings 3. Circumcision plus usual care compared to waiting list plus usual care for chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Circumcision plus usual care compared to waiting list plus usual care for chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Patient or population: participants with chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Intervention: circumcision at 4 weeks (outcome was assessed after circumcision) Comparison: waiting list for circumcision at 3 months (outcome was assessed before circumcision) Outcomes № of participants Quality of the evi- Relative effect Anticipated absolute effects* (95% CI) (studies) dence (95% CI) (GRADE) Library Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews Informed decisions. Cochrane Trusted evidence. Copyright © The Cochrane Collaboration. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Non-pharmacological interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (Review) Risk with waiting list Risk difference with ear- for circumcision ly circumcision Prostatitis symptoms 713 ⊕⊕⊕⊝ - The mean prostatitis MD 3.00 lower assessed with: NIH-CPSI score (1 RCT) Moderate1 symptoms was 15 (3.82 lower to 2.18 lower)2 Scale from: 0 to 43 follow-up: 12 weeks Benefit is indicated by lower scores Adverse events3 713 ⊕⊕⊝⊝ RR 1.23 Study population (1 RCT) Low1,4 (0.86 to 1.76) follow-up: 12
