Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


(Review) Setting: outpatient, South Korea and England Intervention: electromagnetic chair Comparison: control intervention in which the electromagnetic chair was switched off Outcomes № of participants Quality of the evi- Relative effect Anticipated absolute effects* (95% CI) (studies) dence (95% CI) (GRADE) Risk with control interven- Risk difference with electro- tion magnetic chair Prostatitis symptoms 57 ⊕⊝⊝⊝ - 1 study found no differences in NIH-CPSI score measurements assessed with: NIH-CPSI score / Pro- (2 RCTs) Very low1,2,3 at 6 weeks. The other study found a symptom score 16 points statitis Symptom Severity Score (0- to 90-point scale) lower in the intervention group compared follow-up: 6-12 weeks to the control group (P value not available) at 12 weeks. Benefit is indicated by lower scores Adverse events 57 ⊕⊕⊝⊝ - 1 study reported a 0 incidence of adverse events and the oth- (2 RCTs) Low1,4 er study reported 1 case of transient paraesthesia in the active follow-up: 6-12 weeks treatment group. Sexual dysfunction - not reported - - - - - Quality of life - not reported - - - - - Depression and anxiety - not re- - - - - - ported *The risk in the intervention group (and its 95% confidence interval) is based on the assumed risk in the comparison group and the relative effect of the intervention (and its 95% CI). CI: confidence interval; NIH-CPSI: National Institutes of Health - Chronic Prostatitis Symptom Index; RCT: randomised controlled trial. GRADE Working Group grades of evidence High quality: we are very confident that the true effect lies close to that of the estimate of the effect. Moderate quality: we are moderately confident in the effect estimate: the true effect is likely to be close to the estimate of the effect, but there is a possibility that it is sub- stantially different. Low quality: our confidence in the effect estimate is limited: the true effect may be substantially different from the estimate of the effect. Very low quality: we have very little confidence in the effect estimate: the true effect is likely to be substantially different from the estimate of effect. 1Downgraded 1 level due to risk of bias: one study not blinded and the other study had high attrition bias and selective outcome reporting bias. 2The two included studies had inconsistent results (see narrative description). 3Downgraded 1 level for imprecision issues: optimal information size not met (OIS for a 4-point
