Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


and selective outcome reporting bias. 2The two included studies had inconsistent results (see narrative description). 3Downgraded 1 level for imprecision issues: optimal information size not met (OIS for a 4-point decrease, standard deviation 6, alpha 0.05, beta 0.20 = 74); small sample size in the individual studies (meta-analysis was not possible). 4Downgraded 1 level due to imprecision issues: rare events and wide confidence interval. Library Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews Informed decisions. Cochrane Trusted evidence. Copyright © The Cochrane Collaboration. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Non-pharmacological interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (Review) Summary of findings 5. Lifestyle modifications compared to control for chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Lifestyle modifications compared to control for chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Patient or population: participants with chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Setting: outpatient, Italy Intervention: lifestyle modifications based on the assessment of risk factors for chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Comparison: control intervention in which participants were instructed to continue with the same lifestyle Outcomes № of participants Quality of the evi- Relative effect Anticipated absolute effects* (95% CI) (studies) dence (95% CI) Follow-up (GRADE) Risk with control Risk difference with lifestyle modifications Prostatitis symptoms: response defined as 6-point 100 ⊕⊝⊝⊝ RR 3.90 Study population decrease in NIH-CPSI score (1 RCT) Very low1,2 (2.20 to 6.92) follow-up: 3 months 200 per 1000 580 more per 1000 (240 more to 1184 more) Benefit is indicated by lower scores Adverse events - not reported - - - - - Sexual dysfunction - not reported - - - - - Quality of life - not reported - - - - - Depression and anxiety - not reported - - - - - *The risk in the intervention group (and its 95% confidence interval) is based on the assumed risk in the comparison group and the relative effect of the intervention (and its 95% CI). CI: confidence interval; NIH-CPSI: National Institutes of Health - Chronic Prostatitis Symptom Index; RCT: randomised controlled trial; RR: risk ratio. GRADE Working Group grades of evidence High quality: we are very confident that the true effect lies close to that of the estimate of the effect. Moderate quality: we are moderately confident in the effect estimate: the true effect is likely to be close to the estimate of the effect, but there is a possibility that it is sub- stantially different. Low quality: our confidence
