Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


estimate: the true effect is likely to be close to the estimate of the effect, but there is a possibility that it is sub- stantially different. Low quality: our confidence in the effect estimate is limited: the true effect may be substantially different from the estimate of the effect. Very low quality: we have very little confidence in the effect estimate: the true effect is likely to be substantially different from the estimate of effect. 1Downgraded 2 levels due to high risk of selection bias (unconcealed allocation), detection and performance bias (study not blinded), missing outcome data and suspected selective outcome reporting (data presented graphically). 2Downgraded 1 level due to imprecision issues: few events and wide confidence interval. Library Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews Informed decisions. Cochrane Trusted evidence. Copyright © The Cochrane Collaboration. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Non-pharmacological interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (Review) Summary of findings 6. Physical activity compared to control intervention for chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Physical activity compared to control intervention procedure for chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Patient or population: participants with chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Setting: outpatient, Italy Intervention: physical activity programme Comparison: control intervention comprising a flexibility and motion low-grade exercise programme Outcomes № of participants Quality of the evi- Relative effect Anticipated absolute effects* (95% CI) (studies) dence (95% CI) (GRADE) Risk with sham pro- Risk difference with cedure physical activity Prostatitis symptoms 85 ⊕⊕⊝⊝ - The mean prostatitis MD 2.50 lower assessed with: NIH-CPSI score (1 RCT) Low1 symptom score was (4.69 lower to 0.31 low- Scale from: 0 to 43 20 er) follow-up: 6 weeks Benefit is indicated by lower scores Adverse events - not reported - - - - - Sexual dysfunction - not reported - - - - - Quality of life - not reported - - - - - Anxiety 85 ⊕⊝⊝⊝ - The mean anxiety MD 2.8 lower assessed with: SAI-Y score (1 RCT) Very low1,2 score was 42.1 (6.78 lower to 1.18 high- Scale from: 20 to 80 er) follow-up: 6 weeks Benefit is indicated by lower scores Depression 85 ⊕⊝⊝⊝ - The mean depres- MD 0.5 higher assessed with: Beck Depression Inventory (1 RCT) Very low1,2 sion score was 9.3 (1.33 lower to 2.33 high- Scale from: 0 to 63 er) follow-up: 6 weeks Benefit is indicated by lower scores *The risk in
