Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


RCT) Very low1,2 sion score was 9.3 (1.33 lower to 2.33 high- Scale from: 0 to 63 er) follow-up: 6 weeks Benefit is indicated by lower scores *The risk in the intervention group (and its 95% confidence interval) is based on the assumed risk in the comparison group and the relative effect of the intervention (and its 95% CI). Library Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews Informed decisions. Cochrane Trusted evidence. Copyright © The Cochrane Collaboration. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Non-pharmacological interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (Review) CI: confidence interval; MD: mean difference; NIH-CPSI: National Institutes of Health - Chronic Prostatitis Symptom Index; RCT: randomised controlled trial; SAI-Y: State Anxiety Inventory-Y. GRADE Working Group grades of evidence High quality: we are very confident that the true effect lies close to that of the estimate of the effect. Moderate quality: we are moderately confident in the effect estimate: the true effect is likely to be close to the estimate of the effect, but there is a possibility that it is sub- stantially different. Low quality: our confidence in the effect estimate is limited: the true effect may be substantially different from the estimate of the effect. Very low quality: we have very little confidence in the effect estimate: the true effect is likely to be substantially different from the estimate of effect. 1Downgraded 2 levels: high risk of performance bias and detection bias (study not blinded); high risk of attrition bias at follow-up. 2Downgraded 1 level due to imprecision issues: wide confidence intervals include both considerable benefits and harms. Summary of findings 7. Prostatic massage compared to no intervention for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Prostatic massage compared to control for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Patient or population: participants with chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Setting: outpatient, Egypt Intervention: prostatic massage Comparison: no intervention Outcomes № of participants Quality of the evi- Relative effect Anticipated absolute effects* (95% CI) (studies) dence (95% CI) (GRADE) Risk with control Risk difference with prostatic massage Prostatitis symptoms 44 ⊕⊝⊝⊝ - The mean prostati- MD 1.10 lower assessed with: NIH-CPSI score (1 RCT) Very low1,2 tis symptom score (5.63 lower to 3.43 Scale from: 0 to 43 was 12.4 higher) follow-up: 4 weeks Benefit is indicated by lower scores Adverse events - not reported - - - - - Sexual dysfunction - not reported -
