Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


to 43 was 12.4 higher) follow-up: 4 weeks Benefit is indicated by lower scores Adverse events - not reported - - - - - Sexual dysfunction - not reported - - - - - Quality of life - not reported - - - - - Depression and anxiety - not reported - - - - - Library Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews Informed decisions. Cochrane Trusted evidence. Copyright © The Cochrane Collaboration. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Non-pharmacological interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (Review) *The risk in the intervention group (and its 95% confidence interval) is based on the assumed risk in the comparison group and the relative effect of the intervention (and its 95% CI). CI: confidence interval; MD: mean difference; NIH-CPSI: National Institutes of Health - Chronic Prostatitis Symptom Index; RCT: randomised controlled trial. GRADE Working Group grades of evidence High quality: we are very confident that the true effect lies close to that of the estimate of the effect. Moderate quality: we are moderately confident in the effect estimate: the true effect is likely to be close to the estimate of the effect, but there is a possibility that it is sub- stantially different. Low quality: our confidence in the effect estimate is limited: the true effect may be substantially different from the estimate of the effect. Very low quality: we have very little confidence in the effect estimate: the true effect is likely to be substantially different from the estimate of effect. 1Downgraded 2 levels due to high risk of performance and detection bias (study not blinded), unclear risk of bias in the remaining domains. 2Downgraded 1 level for imprecision issues: optimal information size (OIS) not met (OIS for a 4-point decrease, standard deviation 6, alpha 0.05, beta 0.20 = 74). Summary of findings 8. Extracorporeal shockwave therapy compared to control procedure for chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Extracorporeal shockwave therapy compared to control procedure for chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Patient or population: participants with chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Setting: outpatient, China, Austria, Iran Intervention: ESWT Comparison: 2 studies used a sham procedure (machine turned off) and 1 study compared to no ESWT Outcomes № of participants Quality of the evi- Relative effect Anticipated absolute effects* (95% CI) (studies) dence (95% CI) (GRADE) Risk with control Risk difference with ESWT Prostatitis symptoms 157 ⊕⊕⊕⊕ - The mean
