Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


effect estimate: the true effect is likely to be close to the estimate of the effect, but there is a possibility that it is sub- stantially different. Low quality: our confidence in the effect estimate is limited: the true effect may be substantially different from the estimate of the effect. Very low quality: we have very little confidence in the effect estimate: the true effect is likely to be substantially different from the estimate of effect. 1Whereas one of the studies was not blinded, which could have posed a high risk of performance and detection bias, we did not downgrade for risk of bias due to the consistency with other studies with low risk of bias. 2Downgraded 1 level due to risk of bias: one of the studies that provided events for this outcome was not blinded. 3Downgraded 1 level due to inconsistency (I2 = 71%). 4Downgraded 1 level due to imprecision issues: few events and wide confidence interval. 5Downgraded 1 level due to inconsistency (I2 = 82%). 6Downgraded 1 level due to imprecision issues: wide confidence interval. Library Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews Informed decisions. Cochrane Trusted evidence. Copyright © The Cochrane Collaboration. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Non-pharmacological interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (Review) Summary of findings 9. Transrectal thermotherapy compared to medical treatment for chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Transrectal thermotherapy compared to medical treatment for chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Patient or population: participants with chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Setting: outpatient, China and Korea Intervention: transrectal thermotherapy Comparison: medical treatment Outcomes № of participants Quality of the evi- Relative effect Anticipated absolute effects* (95% CI) (studies) dence (95% CI) (GRADE) Risk with medical Risk difference with treatment transrectal ther- motherapy Prostatitis symptoms 140 ⊕⊕⊝⊝ - The mean prostatitis MD 2.50 lower assessed with: NIH-CPSI score (2 RCTs) Low1 symptom score ranged (3.82 lower to 1.18 Scale from: 0 to 43 from 14.33 to 17.19 lower) follow-up: 6 to 12 weeks Benefit is indicated by lower scores Adverse events - not reported - - - - - Sexual dysfunction - not reported - - - - - Quality of life - not reported - - - - - Depression and anxiety - not reported - - - - - *The risk in the intervention group (and its 95% confidence interval) is based on the assumed risk in the comparison
