Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


and anxiety - not reported - - - - - *The risk in the intervention group (and its 95% confidence interval) is based on the assumed risk in the comparison group and the relative effect of the intervention (and its 95% CI). CI: confidence interval; MD: mean difference; NIH-CPSI: National Institutes of Health - Chronic Prostatitis Symptom Index; RCT: randomised controlled trial. GRADE Working Group grades of evidence High quality: we are very confident that the true effect lies close to that of the estimate of the effect. Moderate quality: we are moderately confident in the effect estimate: the true effect is likely to be close to the estimate of the effect, but there is a possibility that it is sub- stantially different. Low quality: our confidence in the effect estimate is limited: the true effect may be substantially different from the estimate of the effect. Very low quality: we have very little confidence in the effect estimate: the true effect is likely to be substantially different from the estimate of effect. 1Downgraded 2 levels due to high risk of allocation concealment bias, performance and detection bias (study not blinded) and high risk of attrition bias. Library Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews Informed decisions. Cochrane Trusted evidence. Copyright © The Cochrane Collaboration. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Non-pharmacological interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (Review) Summary of findings 10. Transrectal thermotherapy (add-on) compared to medical treatment alone for chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Transrectal thermotherapy (add-on) compared to medical treatment alone for chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Patient or population: participants with chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome Setting: outpatient, China and Korea Intervention: transrectal thermotherapy in addition to medical therapy Comparison: medical treatment alone Outcomes № of participants Quality of the evi- Relative effect Anticipated absolute effects* (95% CI) (studies) dence (95% CI) Follow-up (GRADE) Risk with medical Risk difference with treatment alone transrectal ther- motherapy (add-on) Prostatitis symptoms 145 ⊕⊕⊝⊝ - The mean prostatitis MD 4.34 lower assessed with: NIH-CPSI score (2 RCTs) Low1 symptom score ranged (5.65 lower to 3.04 low- Scale from: 0 to 43 from 14.33 to 17.19 er) follow-up: 6 to 12 weeks Benefit is indicated by lower scores Adverse events - not reported - - - - - Sexual dysfunction - not reported - - - - - Quality of life - not reported - - - -
