Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


Adverse events - not reported - - - - - Sexual dysfunction - not reported - - - - - Quality of life - not reported - - - - - Depression and anxiety - not reported - - - - - *The risk in the intervention group (and its 95% confidence interval) is based on the assumed risk in the comparison group and the relative effect of the intervention (and its 95% CI). CI: confidence interval; MD: mean difference; NIH-CPSI: National Institutes of Health - Chronic Prostatitis Symptom Index; RCT: randomised controlled trial. GRADE Working Group grades of evidence High quality: we are very confident that the true effect lies close to that of the estimate of the effect. Moderate quality: we are moderately confident in the effect estimate: the true effect is likely to be close to the estimate of the effect, but there is a possibility that it is sub- stantially different. Low quality: our confidence in the effect estimate is limited: the true effect may be substantially different from the estimate of the effect. Very low quality: we have very little confidence in the effect estimate: the true effect is likely to be substantially different from the estimate of effect. 1Downgraded 2 levels due to high risk of allocation concealment bias, performance and detection bias (study not blinded) and high risk of attrition bias. Library Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews Informed decisions. Cochrane Trusted evidence. Cochrane Trusted evidence. Library Informed decisions. Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews B A C K G R O U N D social functioning and psychiatric comorbidity (anxiety and depression) are contributing factors . Description of the condition • Dyssynergic voiding associated with bladder neck hypertrophy is detected in men with refractory CP/CPPS (Dellabella Prostatitis is a common disorder affecting 10% to 14% of men 2006; Hruz 2003). Intraprostatic urinary reflux and increased in Europe and the USA . This health problem intraprostatic pressure is associated with inflammation in CP/ motivates 1% of primary care visits and 8% of urology consultations CPPS (Kirby 1982; Mehik 2002). in the USA . Only 5% to 10% of prostatitis cases have a bacterial origin (Bartoletti 2007; De La Rosette 1993). This disorder • Other theories described for this condition include: adrenal axis can affect men of all ages and ethnic origins, but it is more common abnormalities , pelvic floor muscles
