Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


disorder • Other theories described for this condition include: adrenal axis can affect men of all ages and ethnic origins, but it is more common abnormalities , pelvic floor muscles dysfunction in younger men with a mean age of onset at 42 years old (Schaeffer (Hetrick 2006; Shoskes 2008a), pelvic nerve entrapment and lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS), even though there is a 2002), and oxidative stress . wide range of clinical presentations . Description of the intervention The National Institutes of Health (NIH) classification identifies There is a wide variety of interventions for treating CP/CPPS, four types of prostatitis : type I, acute bacterial each one addressing a different pathophysiological or symptomatic prostatitis; type II, chronic bacterial prostatitis; type III, chronic framework. The diversity of available interventions reflects the prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS) and type IV, complexity of the condition and how little is known about its asymptomatic prostatitis. It remains unclear whether type III can determinants. be linked in all cases to prostatic involvement , thus the alternate denomination (CPPS). CP/CPPS is subclassified as type Management of CP/CPPS involves a multimodal and tailored IIIa, inflammatory, and type IIIb, non-inflammatory, depending on approach (Rees 2015; Shoskes 2008b). Some of the strategies used the presence of inflammatory cells in prostatic secretions. Before alone or in combination are the following. this classification, this entity was denominated chronic abacterial or non-bacterial prostatitis (similar to type IIIa CP/CPPS) and Pharmacological interventions prostatodynia (similar to type IIIb CP/CPPS) . This • Alpha-blockers. change in the classification might have changed the epidemiology of this condition . • 5-alpha reductase inhibitors. • Antibiotic therapy (quinolones, tetracyclines and other agents). CP/CPPS is defined when pelvic pain is present for at least three • Analgesics (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), of the preceding six months and no other identifiable causes pregabalin). have been detected . Other symptoms include • Phytotherapy (pollen extract and bioflavonoids). obstructive or irritative voiding difficulties, ejaculatory pain, and • Botulinum toxin A. haematospermia. Men affected by CP/CPPS have a significantly decreased quality of life (QoL) and the level of pelvic pain is strongly • Allopurinol. associated with sexual dysfunction (Trinchieri 2007; Walz 2007). • Traditional medicine (traditional Chinese medicine, etc.). CP/CPPS is associated with other functional somatic syndromes, • Other pharmacological agents. such as irritable bowel syndrome, interstitial cystitis, chronic fatigue syndrome and fibromyalgia (Rodriguez 2009; Suskind Non-pharmacological interventions 2013). Diagnosis is usually based
