Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


other functional somatic syndromes, • Other pharmacological agents. such as irritable bowel syndrome, interstitial cystitis, chronic fatigue syndrome and fibromyalgia (Rodriguez 2009; Suskind Non-pharmacological interventions 2013). Diagnosis is usually based on patient history, physical • Acupuncture and electroacupuncture. examination, urinalysis and the two- or four-glass test . Further investigations are performed when considering differential • Local thermotherapy. diagnosis. • Extracorporeal shockwave therapy. • Electromagnetic chair. There are different theories regarding the aetiology and • Myofascial trigger point release. pathophysiology of CP/CPPS, as follows. • Biofeedback. • Infection: bacterial DNA is detected in a significant proportion • Circumcision. of men with CP/CPPS . A previous history of sexually • Lifestyle interventions. transmitted infection is more frequent in men with CP/CPPS • Physical activity. . Nevertheless, the isolation of uropathogenic • Psychological support. bacteria in prostatic fluids is similar to controls . • Prostatic surgery. • Inflammation/autoimmunity: elevated concentrations of proinflammatory cytokines (interleukin 1, tumour necrosis • Other miscellaneous non-pharmacological therapies. factor, interferon-γ) and of autoimmunity activity (T-cell Multimodal approaches proliferation responses to prostate antigens) is found in men with CP/CPPS and in animal models . • Combination therapy: alpha blockers plus antibiotics, • Neuropsychological factors: the central nervous system antibiotics plus analgesics, etc. might be involved through several mechanisms of pain sensitisation (Miller 2002; Yang 2003). Increased stress burden, stress response, pain catastrophising cognitions, poor Non-pharmacological interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (Review) 16 Cochrane Trusted evidence. Library Informed decisions. Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews Adverse events assumption of the existence of an occult or undertreated infection . Common adverse effects of pharmacological regimens include the following . Allopurinol would reduce the prostatic secretions of purine and pyrimidine base-containing metabolites in urine. These • Alpha-blockers: hypotension, ejaculatory dysfunction, metabolites could be responsible for prostatic inflammation headache, dizziness and nasal congestion. through urinary reflux . • 5-alpha-reductase inhibitors: decreased libido, impotency, and potentiation of hypotension (in combination with alpha- Botulinum toxin A has denervating properties and causes reduction blockers). in pain mediators when applied to the prostate in animal models. It • Quinolones: gastrointestinal discomfort, headache, dizziness, also causes apoptosis and involution of the prostate gland (Chuang rash and tendinopathy. 2006). • Tetracyclines: gastrointestinal discomfort, rash, teeth Non-pharmacological interventions discolouration and hepatotoxicity. • NSAIDs: peripheral oedema, rash, dyspepsia, peptic ulcer and Acupuncture targets specific cutaneous points representing bleeding, renal and hepatic injury, and increased risk of adverse various
