Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


interventions discolouration and hepatotoxicity. • NSAIDs: peripheral oedema, rash, dyspepsia, peptic ulcer and Acupuncture targets specific cutaneous points representing bleeding, renal and hepatic injury, and increased risk of adverse various internal organs using fine needle insertion and cardiovascular events. sometimes adding electric current to increase stimulation (electroacupuncture). In animal models, electroacupuncture • Phytotherapy: gastrointestinal discomfort and allergic has anti-inflammatory properties and activates analgesic reactions. neurotransmitters . The most common adverse effect in physical therapies is pain Locally induced hyperthermia, using transrectal or transurethral worsened during or immediately after the procedure (Fitzgerald procedures, could decrease oxygen free radicals associated with 2013). prostatic inflammation . Clinical phenotyping Myofascial trigger point release targets pelvic floor musculature Clinical phenotyping is a strategy that was developed to deliver dysfunction as a potential cause or contributor to CP/CPPS customised treatment in an aetiological framework (Shoskes . Biofeedback also addresses pelvic floor muscle 2008b). The UPOINT system addresses six domains: Urinary through initial contraction to achieve further relaxation (Capodice symptoms, Psychosocial dysfunction, Organ-specific findings, 2005). Infection, Neurological dysfunction and Tenderness of muscles, and offers an algorithmic approach for the use of the various Extracorporeal shockwave therapy could promote vascularisation available interventions. The number of affected domains holds a of the prostatic tissue and modulate nociceptive nerve impulses significant correlation with the prostatitis symptoms score and the and pelvic floor tone . addition of a Sexual dysfunction domain (UPOINT(S)) improves The length of the foreskin is positively associated with the presence accuracy in stratification of symptom severity . While in of symptoms of CP/CPPS; therefore, it has been proposed that itself it is not an intervention, it serves as a screening tool to select circumcision could reduce prostatitis symptoms . the most appropriate intervention for each patient. There are certain risk factors in the lifestyle of men with CP/CPPS, How the intervention might work including alcohol consumption and smoking status, among others, Pharmacological interventions that are associated with worse clinical outcomes. Interventions aimed at reducing those risk factors, including those aimed at Alpha-blockers reduce the autonomic sympathetic tone in increasing physical activity, could reduce prostatitis symptoms the bladder neck and prostate, improving urinary flow and . LUTS. 5-alpha-reductase inhibitors reduce the production of dihydrotestosterone and, consequently, the size of the prostatic Prostatic massage has been a classical treatment for CP/CPPS gland dependent on the stimulation of this hormone. This might aimed at relieving prostatic congestion, although the mechanisms
