Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


of the prostatic Prostatic massage has been a classical treatment for CP/CPPS gland dependent on the stimulation of this hormone. This might aimed at relieving prostatic congestion, although the mechanisms reduce pain and impaired voiding . for its therapeutic effects are controversial . NSAIDs are antagonists to the cyclo-oxygenases (COX) enzymes It has been suggested that psychological treatments could be type 1 and 2 and their proinflammatory subproducts (Brunton helpful in all types of chronic pain syndromes and the psychiatric 2011). Both non-selective and selective (COX-2) inhibitors could comorbidity associated with the condition (e.g. depression therefore decrease inflammatory mediated pain in CP/CPPS. secondary to chronic pain) . Phytotherapy includes the use of pollen extract and bioflavonoids Why it is important to do this review that appear to have anti-inflammatory properties, decreasing acinar cell proliferation and the production of interleukin-6, tumour The Cochrane Urology Group undertook an extensive prioritisation necrosis factor α, and other proinflammatory cytokines (Capodice exercise to identify a core portfolio of the most clinically important 2005; Kamijo 2001). titles. Consequently, this title was identified as a clinically important priority by the urology expert panel for development, Even if CP/CPPS is defined when no bacterial cause can be maintenance and investment of resources by the editorial base. identified, antibiotics have been used to treat it under the Non-pharmacological interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (Review) 17 Cochrane Trusted evidence. Library Informed decisions. Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews CP/CPPS is a prevalent condition among men and it causes • Electromagnetic chair. significant impairment of QoL. There was a previous Cochrane • Lifestyle interventions. Review on the same subject but with a different methodological • Physical activity. approach . Other non-Cochrane systematic • Prostatic massage. reviews were also undertaken in previous years: some of them focused on individual interventions (Qin 2016a; Yang 2006; • Extracorporeal shockwave therapy. Zhu 2014), while others had a wider scope of interventions • Local thermotherapy (transurethral, transrectal thermotherapy (Anothaisintawee 2011; Cohen 2012; Magistro 2016). We consider and external). that a new and updated Cochrane Review is needed to critically • Biofeedback. summarise the body of evidence for this complex condition • Myofascial trigger point release. using the GRADE approach, thus providing key information about • Laser therapy. the best estimate of the magnitude of the effect in relative • Tibial nerve stimulation. terms and absolute differences for patient-important outcomes. Previous systematic reviews
