Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


information about • Laser therapy. the best estimate of the magnitude of the effect in relative • Tibial nerve stimulation. terms and absolute differences for patient-important outcomes. Previous systematic reviews did not use this approach and had • Myofascial therapy. variable adherence to the rigorous methodology recommended by • Osteopathy. Cochrane. • Sono-electromagnetic therapy. • Transelectrical nerve stimulation The protocol for this review was first published in August 2016 with the title 'Interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic • Transurethral needle ablation. pelvic pain syndrome' . Due to the retrieval of a • Non-intrusive ultrasound. significant amount of included studies, the review team and the • Psychological support. Cochrane Urology Group decided to split the review in two more • Prostatic surgery. narrowly defined reviews: 'Non-pharmacological interventions for • Other miscellaneous non-pharmacological therapies. treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome' and 'Pharmacological interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/ Multimodal approaches chronic pelvic pain syndrome' . • Combination of pharmacological and non-pharmacological O B J E C T I V E S therapy: acupuncture plus antibiotics, local thermotherapy plus alpha-blockers, etc. To assess the effects of non-pharmacological therapies for chronic • Combination of non-pharmacological therapies. prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS). Comparator interventions M E T H O D S • Placebo or sham procedure. Criteria for considering studies for this review • No treatment. • Other types of interventions: pharmacological and non- Types of studies pharmacological. We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) regardless of their publication status or language of publication. Comparisons We performed head-to-head comparisons or intervention versus Types of participants placebo or sham procedure/no treatment comparisons. We included men of all ages, regardless of social condition or ethnic origin, with CP/CPPS according with type III prostatitis of the NIH We did not include studies evaluating only pharmacological classification. interventions to avoid overlapping with the review 'Pharmacological interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/ If we identified studies in which only a subset of participants was chronic pelvic pain syndrome' . relevant to this review, we included such studies if data were available separately for the relevant subset. Types of outcome measures We did not use the measurement of the outcomes assessed in this Types of interventions review as an eligibility criterion. We investigated the following comparisons of experimental intervention versus comparator intervention. Concomitant Primary outcomes interventions had to be the same in the experimental and • Prostatitis symptoms. comparator groups to establish fair comparisons.
