Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


following comparisons of experimental intervention versus comparator intervention. Concomitant Primary outcomes interventions had to be the same in the experimental and • Prostatitis symptoms. comparator groups to establish fair comparisons. We performed • Adverse events. a condition-based comprehensive bibliographic search to find all interventions tested so far for CP/CPPS; therefore, some of them Secondary outcomes might not be listed in this section. • Sexual dysfunction. Non-pharmacological interventions • Urinary symptoms. • Acupuncture and electroacupuncture. • Quality of life (QoL). • Circumcision. • Depression and anxiety. Non-pharmacological interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (Review) 18 Cochrane Trusted evidence. Library Informed decisions. Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews Method and timing of outcome measurement Depression and anxiety We used clinically important difference for the review outcomes • Assessed by Beck Depression Inventory, State Anxiety Inventory- to rate overall quality of the evidence in 'Summary of finding' Y or other validated scales. tables . When the mean difference (MD) or risk ratio • We considered an MCID of Beck Depression Inventory to be 11 (RR) was equal to or larger than the minimal clinically important and State Anxiety Inventory-Y to be 10 (Button 2015; Corsaletti difference (MCID), we assumed that many participants may 2014). have gained clinically meaningful improvement from treatment; when the MD was at least half of the MCID but less than We considered outcomes measured up to and including 12 months the MCID, an appreciable number of participants had likely after randomisation as short-term, and later than 12 months as achieved a clinically meaningful improvement; and when the long-term. appreciable number of participants achieved clinically meaningful Main outcomes for 'Summary of findings' tables improvement . We presented 'Summary of findings' tables reporting the following outcomes listed according to priority. Prostatitis symptoms • Measured by the National Institutes of Health - Chronic • Prostatitis symptoms. Prostatitis Symptom Index (NIH-CPSI) as total score and • Adverse events. subscore measurements, when possible, and other validated • Sexual dysfunction. scales. • QoL. • We considered an MCID in NIH-CPSI score as a 25% decrease or • Depression and anxiety. a 6-point reduction from baseline . This threshold was used to measure the 'responders rate' . Search methods for identification of studies Adverse events We searched for all published and unpublished RCTs meeting our stated inclusion/exclusion criteria, without restrictions on • Defined as treatment intolerance, adverse effects of the language, publication date
