Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


Adverse events We searched for all published and unpublished RCTs meeting our stated inclusion/exclusion criteria, without restrictions on • Defined as treatment intolerance, adverse effects of the language, publication date or publication status, and in interventions at any time after participants were randomised to consultation with the Cochrane Urology Information Specialist. intervention/comparator groups. • There was no established threshold for adverse events. We Electronic searches considered the clinically important differences of adverse events We identified published, unpublished and ongoing studies by above as relative risk reduction of at least 25% . searching the following databases from their inception. Sexual dysfunction • Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2017, • Measured by validated scales (e.g. International Index of Erectile Issue 7) in the Cochrane Library. Function, IIEF). • PubMed (1946 to 11 August 2017). • We considered the MCID in the erectile function domain score • Embase Elsevier (1947 to 11 August 2017). of the IIEF of four . We planned to use different • PsycINFO Ovid (1887 to 11 August 2017). thresholds of MCID based on the severity of erectile dysfunction, with a threshold of two for men with mild erectile dysfunction, • CINAHL EBSCO (1937 to 11 August 2017). five with moderate erectile dysfunction and seven with severe • ClinicalTrials.gov (www.clinicaltrials.gov, 14 August 2017) erectile dysfunction . We also considered IIEF-5 of • ISRCTN Registry (BioMed Central; www.isrctn.com/, 14 August over five points as the MCID . 2017). • World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Urinary symptoms Platform (www.who.int/trialsearch, 14 August 2017). • Measured by IPSS (International Prostate Symptom Score) or AUASS (American Urological Association Symptom Score). The search strategies for databases were modelled on the search • We considered improvement of the IPSS score of three points as strategy designed for PubMed (Appendix 1; Appendix 2; Appendix 3; an MCID to assess efficacy and comparative effectiveness (Barry Appendix 4; Appendix 5; Appendix 6). The PubMed search utilised 1995). We planned to use different thresholds of MCID based on the Cochrane Highly Sensitive Search Strategy for identifying RCTs the severity of IPSS, with a threshold of three for men with mild in MEDLINE: sensitivity maximising version (2008 revision; Lefebvre LUTS, five for moderate LUTS and eight for severe LUTS . The Embase search utilised the trial filter for therapy, 1995). maximising sensitivity developed by the Health Information Quality of life to the Elsevier interface . For CENTRAL
