Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


severe LUTS . The Embase search utilised the trial filter for therapy, 1995). maximising sensitivity developed by the Health Information Quality of life to the Elsevier interface . For CENTRAL and clinical trials registries, filters were not applicable. We did not use filters • Assessed by the Medical Outcomes Study Short Form 12 (SF-12) for PsycINFO and CINAHL because the results likely to be obtained or other validated scales. were very few. • We considered an MCID of SF-12 physical component score to be 8 and SF-12 mental component score to be 4 . Searching other resources We tried to identify other potentially eligible trials or ancillary publications by searching the reference lists of retrieved included Non-pharmacological interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (Review) 19 Cochrane Trusted evidence. Library Informed decisions. Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews assessment reports. We contacted authors of included studies to • Declarations of interest by primary investigators. identify any further studies that we may have missed. We contacted drug and device manufacturers for ongoing or unpublished trials. We further summarised some of the characteristics of the studies, We searched abstract proceedings of the American Urological participants and interventions in additional tables (Table 1; Table Association, European Association of Urology and Society of Sexual 2). Medicine from 2015 to 2017 for unpublished studies (Appendix 7). We extracted outcomes data relevant to this Cochrane Review We searched other grey literature sources such as: as needed for calculation of summary statistics and measures of variance. For dichotomous outcomes, we attempted to obtain • Open Grey (www.opengrey.eu/); numbers of events and totals of population for a 2 × 2 table, as well • New York Academy of Medicine Grey Literature Report as summary statistics with corresponding measures of variance. (www.greylit.org/); For continuous outcomes, we attempted to obtain means and • Google Scholar. standard deviations or data necessary to calculate this information. We resolved any disagreements by discussion, or, if required, by Data collection and analysis consultation with a third review author (SI or JHJ). Selection of studies We provided information, including trial identifier, about potentially relevant ongoing studies in a Characteristics of ongoing We used reference management software (EndNote) and Covidence studies table. We attempted to contact authors of included studies to identify and remove duplicate records. Three review authors to obtain key missing data as needed. (JVAF, TT, VV) independently scanned in pairs the
