Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


to contact authors of included studies to identify and remove duplicate records. Three review authors to obtain key missing data as needed. (JVAF, TT, VV) independently scanned in pairs the abstract, title, or both, of remaining records retrieved, to determine which Dealing with duplicate and companion publications studies should be assessed further. Five review authors (JVAF, TT, SI, YX, VV) investigated all potentially relevant records as In the event of duplicate publications, companion documents full text, mapped records to studies, and classified studies as or multiple reports of a primary study, we maximised yield of included studies, excluded studies, studies awaiting classification information by mapping all publications to unique studies and or ongoing studies in accordance with the criteria for each collating all available data. We used the most complete data set provided in the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of aggregated across all known publications. In case of doubt, we Interventions . We used Covidence for title/abstract, gave priority to the publication reporting the longest follow-up and full-text screening. We resolved any discrepancies through associated with our primary or secondary outcomes. consensus or recourse to a third review author (JHJ). If resolution of a disagreement was not possible, we designated the study Assessment of risk of bias in included studies as 'awaiting classification' (Characteristics of studies awaiting Six review authors (JVAF, VV, TT, SI, YX, JHJ) assessed the risk of classification) and we contacted study authors for clarification. bias of each included study independently in pairs. We resolved We documented reasons for exclusion of studies that may have disagreements by consensus, or by consultation with a third review reasonably been expected to be included in the review in a author (JVAF or VV). Characteristics of excluded studies table. We presented an adapted PRISMA flow diagram showing the process of study selection We assessed risk of bias using the Cochrane 'Risk of bias' . assessment tool . We assessed the following domains. Data extraction and management • Random sequence generation (selection bias). We developed a dedicated data abstraction form that we pilot tested ahead of time. • Allocation concealment (selection bias). • Blinding of participants and personnel (performance bias). For studies that fulfilled inclusion criteria, six review authors (JVAF, • Blinding of outcome assessment (detection bias). VV, TT, SI, YX, JHJ) independently abstracted in pairs the following • Incomplete outcome data (attrition bias). information, which is provided in the Characteristics
