Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


Blinding of outcome assessment (detection bias). VV, TT, SI, YX, JHJ) independently abstracted in pairs the following • Incomplete outcome data (attrition bias). information, which is provided in the Characteristics of included • Selective reporting (reporting bias). studies table. • Other sources of bias. • Study design. We judged the risk of bias domains as 'low risk,' 'high risk' or • Study dates (if dates were not available then this was reported 'unclear risk' and evaluated individual bias items as described as such). in the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions • Study settings and country. . We presented a 'Risk of bias' summary figure to • Participant inclusion and exclusion criteria. illustrate these findings. • Participant details, baseline demographics. • Number of participants by study and by study arm. For performance bias (blinding of participants and personnel) and detection bias (blinding of outcome assessment), we evaluated • Details of relevant experimental and comparator interventions the risk of bias separately for each outcome, and we grouped such as dose, route, frequency and duration. outcomes according to whether they were measured subjectively • Definitions of relevant outcomes, and method and timing of or objectively when reporting our findings in the 'Risk of bias' table. outcome measurement as well as any relevant subgroups. However, all end points were subjective outcomes. Non-pharmacological interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (Review) 20 Cochrane Trusted evidence. Library Informed decisions. Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews We assessed attrition bias (incomplete outcome data) on trials) and publication bias. Therefore, we would have interpreted an outcome-specific basis, and grouped outcomes with like the results carefully. judgements when reporting our findings in the 'Risk of bias' table. Data synthesis We further summarised the risk of bias across domains for each Unless there was good evidence for homogeneous effects across outcome in each included study, as well as across studies and studies, we summarised data using a random-effects model. We domains for each outcome. interpreted random-effects meta-analyses with due consideration Measures of treatment effect of the whole distribution of effects. In addition, we performed statistical analyses according to the statistical guidelines contained We expressed dichotomous data as risk ratios (RR) with 95% in the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions confidence intervals (CIs). We expressed continuous data as mean . For dichotomous outcomes, we used the Mantel- measures to assess the same outcome, in which
