Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


for Systematic Reviews of Interventions confidence intervals (CIs). We expressed continuous data as mean . For dichotomous outcomes, we used the Mantel- measures to assess the same outcome, in which case we expressed variance method. We used Review Manager 5 data as standardised mean differences (SMD) with 95% CIs. software to perform analyses. Unit of analysis issues Subgroup analysis and investigation of heterogeneity The unit of analysis was the individual participant. If we identified We expected the following characteristics to introduce clinical cross-over trials, cluster-randomised trials or trials with more than heterogeneity, and planned to carry out subgroup analyses with two intervention groups for inclusion in the review, we handled investigation of interactions. these in accordance with guidance provided in the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions . • Participants' characteristics: symptom severity at recruitment, Dealing with missing data syndrome, fibromyalgia, interstitial cystitis). We obtained missing data from study authors, if feasible, and • Duration of the intervention: depending on intervention type, performed intention-to-treat analyses if data were available; measured in sessions (e.g. one session or repeated sessions) or otherwise, we performed available-case analyses. We investigated weeks (e.g. less than 12 weeks or more than 12 weeks). attrition rates, such as dropouts, losses to follow-up and We planned to use the test for subgroup differences in Review withdrawals, and we critically appraised issues of missing data. We Manager 5 to compare subgroup analyses if there had been did not impute missing data. sufficient studies . Assessment of heterogeneity Sensitivity analysis In the event of excessive heterogeneity unexplained by subgroup We planned to perform sensitivity analyses to explore the influence analyses, we did not report outcome results as the pooled of the following factors (when applicable) on effect sizes. effect estimate in a meta-analysis, but we provided a narrative description of the results of each study. • Restricting the analysis by taking into account risk of bias, by excluding studies at 'high risk' or 'unclear risk.' We identified heterogeneity (inconsistency) through visual inspection of the forest plots to assess the amount of overlap of CIs, • Explore the impact of re-expressing symptom severity as a and the I2 statistic, which quantifies inconsistency across studies to dichotomous outcome. assess the impact of heterogeneity on the meta-analysis (Higgins • Excluding studies that included participants with a diagnosis of 2002; Higgins 2003). We interpreted the I2 statistic as follows. chronic non-bacterial prostatitis or
