Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


of heterogeneity on the meta-analysis (Higgins • Excluding studies that included participants with a diagnosis of 2002; Higgins 2003). We interpreted the I2 statistic as follows. chronic non-bacterial prostatitis or prostatodynia, not filling the criteria of the 1999 Research Consensus . • 0% to 40%: may not be important. 'Summary of findings' tables • 30% to 60%: may indicate moderate heterogeneity. • 50% to 90%: may indicate substantial heterogeneity. We presented the overall quality of the evidence for each outcome • 75% to 100%: considerable heterogeneity. according to the GRADE approach, which takes into account five criteria related to internal validity (risk of bias, inconsistency, When we found heterogeneity, we attempted to determine possible imprecision, publication bias), and external validity, such as reasons for it by examining individual study and subgroup directness of results . For each comparison, two characteristics. review authors (JVAF, JHJ) independently rated the quality of evidence for each outcome as 'high,' 'moderate,' 'low' or 'very low' Assessment of reporting biases using GRADEpro GDT. We resolved any discrepancies by consensus, or, if needed, by arbitration by a third review author (VV). We We attempted to obtain study protocols to assess for selective presented a summary of the evidence for the main outcomes in outcome reporting. the 'Summary of findings' tables, which provide key information If we had included 10 studies or more investigating a particular about: the best estimate of the magnitude of the effect in relative outcome, we would have used funnel plots to assess small-study terms and absolute differences for each relevant comparison of effects. Several explanations can be offered for the asymmetry of alternative management strategies; numbers of participants and a funnel plot, including true heterogeneity of effect with respect studies addressing each important outcome and the rating of the to trial size, poor methodological design (and hence bias of small overall confidence in effect estimates for each outcome (Guyatt 2011b; Schünemann 2011). If meta-analysis was not possible, we Non-pharmacological interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (Review) 21 Cochrane Trusted evidence. Library Informed decisions. Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews presented results in a narrative 'Summary of findings' table. We 'Pharmacological Interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/ initially planned to present 'Summary of findings' tables for all chronic pelvic pain syndrome' . In this section, we comparisons, however, given their multiplicity, we have presented described the study flow for the studies relevant
