Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


of findings' tables for all chronic pelvic pain syndrome' . In this section, we comparisons, however, given their multiplicity, we have presented described the study flow for the studies relevant to the review two clinical trials in order to highlight the evidence most relevant duplicates. We included two studies from other systematic reviews to clinicians, patients and other stakeholders (see Differences on this topic . We excluded 1386 records and between protocol and review). Nevertheless, all comparisons were screened 130 records in the full-text assessment. We excluded 73 rated using the GRADE approach and are available under the studies (76 records) after full-text assessment (see Characteristics section Effects of interventions. of excluded studies table). The search identified one protocol of a completed study , but we could not retrieve study We used the controlled vocabulary suggested by Glenton 2010 to results (see Characteristics of studies awaiting classification table). summarise the findings of the 'Summary of findings' tables in the We identified four ongoing studies (see Characteristics of ongoing 'Plain language summary.' studies table). We included 38 studies (49 records) in this review. R E S U L T S Description of studies Results of the search For detailed information of the results of the search see Figure 1. This review shares the search strategy for the protocol Non-pharmacological interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (Review) 22 Cochrane Trusted evidence. Library Informed decisions. Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews Figure 1. Study flow diagram. Non-pharmacological interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (Review) 23 Cochrane Trusted evidence. Library Informed decisions. Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews Figure 1. (Continued) Included studies 2005; Sahin 2015; Yang 2011). The other studies did not specify whether the participants had received previous treatments for this We included 38 studies (see Characteristics of included studies condition. Nevertheless, a common inclusion criterion included a table). washout period, as stated in a protocol for medical therapy often cited as a consensus for inclusion/exclusion criteria . Design All the included studies were RCTs. Interventions We included studies assessing a wide variety of non- Sample sizes pharmacological interventions. Median sample size was 60 (interquartile range 35 to 100). The smallest sample size was 20 and the largest sample size was 774. • Acupuncture and electroacupuncture (Chen 2009; Kucuk 2015; Lee 2008; Lee 2009; Sahin 2015). Setting • Local thermotherapy (Gao 2012; Kastner 2004; Leskinen 2002;
