Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


participants compared acupuncture versus medical treatment (Chen 2009; Kucuk 2015; Lee 2009). These None of the studies reported depression and anxiety. studies compared the use of acupuncture with medical treatment. 3. Acupuncture versus acupuncture with moxibustion Medical treatment included the use of pollen extract , levofloxacin and ibuprofen , or exercise and medical One study with 83 participants compared acupuncture versus advice . One of these studies included the use of electric acupuncture with moxibustion (see Table 1; Table 2 for stimulation, also called electroacupuncture, in the active treatment further details of the participants and interventions). group (Lee 2009; see Table 1 and Table 2 for further details of the participants and interventions). See Summary of findings 2. 3.1. Prostatitis symptoms The study reported prostatitis symptoms. Moxibustion 2.1. Prostatitis symptoms acupuncture probably reduced prostatitis symptoms compared to Three studies reported prostatitis symptoms (Chen 2009; Kucuk regular acupuncture, measured by NIH-CPSI score at eight weeks' symptoms compared to medical treatment, measured by NIH-CPSI of evidence was moderate due to high risk of bias (the study was to -1.30; I2 = 70%, random-effects meta-analysis) (Analysis 2.1). These lower scores were observed across all subscores of pain, 3.2. Adverse events urinary symptoms and QoL (Analysis 2.2; Analysis 2.3; Analysis 2.4). The study did not report adverse events. Heterogeneity was predominantly attributable to one study (Chen 2009), which included participants with CP/CPPS using criteria that 3.3. Sexual dysfunction differed from those recommended by the Research Consensus. In The study did not report sexual dysfunction. a sensitivity analysis (see below), we excluded the results from this study and we found greater statistical consistency (I2 = 0%). 3.4. Urinary symptoms Therefore, we chose to report these results in Summary of findings The study did not report urinary symptoms. 2. For this reason, we did not downgrade due to inconsistency. The quality of evidence was moderate due to high risk of bias 3.5. Quality of life (the studies were not blinded, which affected both detection and performance bias). The study did not report QoL. One study with 24 participants reported the number of participants 3.6. Depression and anxiety who achieved an MCID of 6-point decrease of NIH-CPSI score at The study did not report depression and anxiety. six weeks, defined as "responders" . Acupuncture may have increased the number of responders compared to medical 4. Circumcision: early versus delayed circumcision therapy (RR 3.57, 95% CI 1.45 to
