Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


six weeks, defined as "responders" . Acupuncture may have increased the number of responders compared to medical 4. Circumcision: early versus delayed circumcision therapy (RR 3.57, 95% CI 1.45 to 8.80; Analysis 2.5). The quality of One study with 713 participants compared early versus delayed evidence was low due to high risk of bias (the studies were not circumcision . This study compared the effects of blinded, which affected both detection and performance bias) and assigning participants to circumcision at four weeks compared with imprecision (small sample size and few events). a waiting list to be circumcised at a delayed interval of three months 2.2. Adverse events (see Table 1 and Table 2 for further details of the participants and interventions). See Summary of findings 3. Two studies with 78 participants reported adverse events (Kucuk 2015; Lee 2009). There were no adverse events in either arm 4.1. Prostatitis symptoms (Analysis 2.6). The quality of evidence was low due to high risk of Circumcision probably reduced prostatitis symptoms compared to bias (the studies were not blinded, which affected both detection delayed circumcision, measured by NIH-CPSI score at 12 weeks' and performance bias) and imprecision (small sample size and no events). lower scores were observed across all subscores of pain, urinary symptoms and QoL (Analysis 4.2; Analysis 4.3; Analysis 4.4). The Non-pharmacological interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (Review) 29 Cochrane Trusted evidence. Library Informed decisions. Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews quality of evidence was moderate due to high risk of bias (the study 95% CI 0.10 to 46.92) (Analysis 5.5). The quality of evidence was was not blinded, which affected both detection and performance low due to high risk of bias (the studies were not blinded, which bias). affected both detection and performance bias) and imprecision (small sample size and few events). 4.2. Adverse events 5.3. Sexual dysfunction Circumcision likely resulted in little to no difference in adverse events compared to delayed circumcision group (RR 1.23, 95% CI The studies did not report sexual dysfunction. 0.86 to 1.76) (Analysis 4.5). The quality of evidence was low due to high risk of bias (the study was not blinded, which affected both 5.4. Urinary symptoms detection and performance bias) and imprecision (small sample The study by Paick 2006 indicated that the electromagnetic chair size and few events). may have resulted in no difference in urinary symptoms compared to the
