Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


and imprecision (small sample The study by Paick 2006 indicated that the electromagnetic chair size and few events). may have resulted in no difference in urinary symptoms compared to the control group, measured by IPSS score at six weeks' follow-up 4.3. Sexual dysfunction The study did not report sexual dysfunction. was low due to high risk of bias (the study was not blinded, which affected both detection and performance bias) and imprecision 4.4. Urinary symptoms (small sample size and few events). The study did not report urinary symptoms. 5.5. Quality of life 4.5. Quality of life The studies did not report QoL. The study did not report QoL. 5.6. Depression and anxiety 4.6. Depression and anxiety The studies did not report depression and anxiety. The study did not report depression and anxiety. 6. Lifestyle modifications versus control (no intervention) 5. Electromagnetic chair versus control intervention (inactive One study with 100 participants compared lifestyle modifications device) versus control (no intervention) . This study compared Two studies with 57 participants compared electromagnetic the effects of instructing participants to change some aspects in chair versus control intervention (Paick 2006; Rowe 2005). The their lifestyle related to risk factors for CP/CPPS to no intervention, control intervention was either the electromagnetic chair that was that is, maintaining the same lifestyle (see Table 1 and Table 2 for switched off or medical therapy (see Table 1; Table 2 for further further details of the participants and interventions). See Summary details of the participants and interventions). See Summary of of findings 5. findings 4. 6.1. Prostatitis symptoms 5.1. Prostatitis symptoms The study analysed the number of participants who achieved a 6- Both studies reported prostatitis symptoms. The study by Paick point decrease in NIH-CPSI scores at three months ("responders"). 2006 reported that the active treatment group had similar Lifestyle modifications may have increased the number of symptoms to the control group, measured by NIH-CPSI score at six responders in terms of prostatitis symptoms, but we were very was also observed across all subscores of pain, urinary symptoms of evidence was very low due to high risk of selection bias and QoL (Analysis 5.2; Analysis 5.3; Analysis 5.4). The study by Rowe (unconcealed allocation), detection and performance bias (the 2005 found that the active treatment group had fewer symptoms study was not blinded), missing outcome data and suspected (mean score 26.4) compared to the control group (mean score
