Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


(the 2005 found that the active treatment group had fewer symptoms study was not blinded), missing outcome data and suspected (mean score 26.4) compared to the control group (mean score 42.4) selective outcome reporting (NIH-CPSI scores were only presented at 12 weeks, measured by a validated 0 to 90 scale of symptoms graphically). Additionally, there were few response events in each for prostatitis. This study did not report information for effect size group, resulting in imprecision. calculation or P value. This study also reported results at one year' 6.2. Adverse events follow-up: the mean score for the active treatment group was 24 and the mean score in the control group was 33.6. Therefore, we The study did not report adverse events. were uncertain about the effects of the electromagnetic chair on prostatitis symptoms. The quality of evidence was very low due to 6.3. Sexual dysfunction high risk of bias (the studies were not blinded, which affected both The study did not report sexual dysfunction. detection and performance bias), attrition bias, selective reporting of outcomes for the Rowe 2005 study and small sample size in each 6.4. Urinary symptoms study that resulted in imprecision and wide CIs. Additionally, there The study did not report urinary symptoms. was inconsistency in the findings. Meta-analysis of these studies was not possible due to missing information regarding standard 6.5. Quality of life deviations in Rowe 2005. The study did not report QoL. 5.2. Adverse events 6.6. Depression and anxiety Electromagnetic chair likely resulted in little to no difference in The study did not report depression and anxiety. adverse events compared to the control intervention (RR 2.18, Non-pharmacological interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (Review) 30 Cochrane Trusted evidence. Library Informed decisions. Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 7. Physical activity versus control intervention of performance and detection bias (study not blinded), unclear risk of bias in all the remaining domains and imprecision. One study with 85 participants compared physical activity versus control intervention . This study compared the 8.2. Adverse events effects of a regular exercise programme to a control intervention The studies did not report adverse events. (see Table 1 and Table 2 for further details of the participants and interventions). See Summary of findings 6. 8.3. Sexual dysfunction 7.1. Prostatitis symptoms The studies did not report sexual dysfunction. Physical activity may have reduced prostatitis symptoms, 8.4. Urinary symptoms measured by
