Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 11.1.2. Electrical stimulation versus usual care of bias in most of the remaining domains and imprecision (few events). Electrical stimulation may have decreased prostatitis symptoms compared to usual care, measured by NIH-CPSI scores at one 12.3. Sexual dysfunction lower scores were observed across all subscores of pain, urinary The study did not report sexual dysfunction. symptoms and QoL domains (Analysis 11.2; Analysis 11.3; Analysis 12.4. Urinary symptoms 11.4). The quality of evidence was low due to high risk of performance and detection bias (the study was not blinded) and The study did not report urinary symptoms. unclear risk of bias in most of the remaining domains. 12.5. Quality of life 11.1.3. Biofeedback plus electrical stimulation versus usual care The study did not report QoL. Biofeedback plus electric stimulation may have decreased prostatitis symptoms compared to usual care, measured by NIH- 12.6. Depression and anxiety to -13.94). These lower scores were observed across all subscores of pain, urinary symptoms and QoL domains (Analysis 11.2; Analysis 13. Laser therapy applied to the prostate compared with 11.3; Analysis 11.4). The quality of evidence was low due to high risk medical care of performance and detection bias (the study was not blinded) and One study with 112 participants compared laser therapy with unclear risk of bias in most of the remaining domains. medical care (see Table 1; Table 2). 11.2. Adverse events 13.1. Prostatitis symptoms The study reported that no participants experienced adverse Clinical response was defined as a decrease of 60% or more in events. The quality of evidence was very low due to high risk prostatitis symptoms assessed with NIH-CPSI at six weeks. Laser of performance and detection bias (the study was not blinded) therapy may have increased the response rate compared to medical and unclear risk of bias in most of the remaining domains and treatment, but we were very uncertain (RR 2.35, 95% CI 1.53 to 3.62) imprecision (few events). (Analysis 13.1). The quality of evidence was very low due to high 11.3. Sexual dysfunction risk of performance and detection bias (the study was not blinded) and unclear risk of bias in most of the remaining domains and The study did not report sexual dysfunction. imprecision (few events). 11.4. Urinary symptoms 13.2. Adverse events The study did not report urinary symptoms. None of the participants in the study had adverse events (Analysis 13.2).
