Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


across all subscores of pain, urinary 15.4. Urinary symptoms symptoms and QoL (Analysis 14.2; Analysis 14.3; Analysis 14.4). The The study did not report urinary symptoms. quality of evidence was moderate due to high risk of performance and detection bias. 15.5. Quality of life 14.2. Adverse events The study did not report QoL. The study did not report adverse events. 15.6. Depression and anxiety 14.3. Sexual dysfunction The study did not report depression and anxiety. The study did not report sexual dysfunction. 16. Myofascial trigger point release therapy compared to control intervention (massage) 14.4. Urinary symptoms One study with 23 men compared myofascial trigger point release The study did not report urinary symptoms. therapy with control intervention (massage) . 14.5. Quality of life This study also included women with interstitial cystitis/painful bladder syndrome, but their results were not included in this The study did not report QoL. review. This study had two groups: participants who were treated with myofascial physical therapy and participants who received 14.6. Depression and anxiety therapeutic western massage as a control intervention (see Table The study did not report depression and anxiety. 1; Table 2). 15. Sono-electromagnetic therapy versus placebo intervention 16.1. Prostatitis symptoms One study with 60 participants compared sono-electromagnetic Myofascial trigger point release therapy may have resulted in little therapy versus placebo intervention . This study had to no effect compared to the control intervention at 12 weeks (MD two groups: participants who were treated at home with a sono- 1.00, 95% CI -6.45 to 8.45). These similar scores were observed electromagnetic therapy device and participants treated with a across all subscores of pain, urinary symptoms and QoL (Analysis 'placebo' device (see Table 1; Table 2). 15.2; Analysis 15.3; Analysis 15.4). The quality of evidence was very low due to high risk of performance and detection bias (the 15.1. Prostatitis symptoms study was not blinded), the presence of baseline differences and Sono-electromagnetic therapy probably resulted in little to no imprecision issues (wide CIs due to small sample size). effect on prostatitis symptoms compared to the placebo device at 16.2. Adverse events observed across all subscores of pain, urinary symptoms and QoL The authors reported the incidence of adverse events globally for domains (Analysis 17.3; Analysis 17.4; Analysis 17.5). There was a men and women. Even though we contacted study authors to similar number of 'responders' (defined as a drop in 4 points of NIH-
