Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


20.1. Prostatitis symptoms TUNA may have had little to no effect on prostatitis symptoms 21.2. Adverse events compared to a sham procedure at 12 months' follow-up, using the The study reported five cases of vertigo, six cases of gastrointestinal CI -8.02 to 12.62) (Analysis 20.1). The quality of evidence was very which group experienced them. The quality of evidence was low low due to severe imprecision and unclear risk of bias in almost all due to high risk of performance and detection bias (study not domains. blinded), and imprecision. 20.2. Adverse events 21.3. Sexual dysfunction The study reported that 10/25 participants in the TUNA group The study did not report sexual dysfunction. and 3/8 in the sham group experienced dysuria during the first month after the procedure and 3/25 participants in the TUNA group 21.4. Urinary symptoms reported transient haematuria. The quality of evidence was very The study did not report urinary symptoms. low due to severe imprecision and unclear risk of bias in almost all domains. 21.5. Quality of life 20.3. Sexual dysfunction The study did not report QoL. The study did not report sexual dysfunction. 21.6. Depression and anxiety 20.4. Urinary symptoms The study did not report depression and anxiety. TUNA may have had little to no effect on urinary symptoms 22. Hypercapnic hypoxia versus no additional intervention compared to a sham procedure at 12 months follow-up, using the of evidence was very low due to severe imprecision and unclear risk medical therapy versus medical therapy alone (see of bias in almost all domains. Table 1; Table 2). Non-pharmacological interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (Review) 36 Cochrane Trusted evidence. Library Informed decisions. Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 22.1. Prostatitis symptoms and results section. None of the predefined outcomes of this review were reported. The study authors reported different levels The study did not report prostatitis symptoms. of clinical "response" (definition not available). 22.2. Adverse events 24. Psychological support The study did not report adverse events. We found no studies reporting psychological support. 22.3. Sexual dysfunction 25. Prostatic surgery The study did not report sexual dysfunction. We found no studies reporting prostatic surgery. 22.4. Urinary symptoms Sensitivity analysis The study reported that at the end of the 10 days of treatment, the mean IPSS score for the hypercapnic hypoxia plus medical therapy We performed a sensitivity analysis excluding the six studies (Chen group was
