Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


on critical patient-important outcomes; however, most studies did not report them consistently, especially The exclusion of Nickel 1996 resulted in no evidence for the incidence of adverse events. This is a common problem the comparison of transurethral thermotherapy versus sham procedure. estimating the net benefit of the interventions. Additionally, most of the included studies did not report the effects of D I S C U S S I O N Summary of main results considering the important impact of CP/CPPS in these domains . We acknowledge that the NIH-CPSI score We included 38 unique studies with 3290 men with CP/CPPS across includes QoL and urinary symptoms subscores that, alongside the 23 comparisons. We included all comparisons with short-term pain subscore, contribute to a total score that has proven to be valid follow-up in the analyses. The median age of the participants was and reliable (Litwin 1999; McNaughton 2001; Propert 2006; Turner 37 years. 2003); however, these subscores have not been validated for these constructs individually. We acknowledge that the validated scores We found moderate quality evidence that acupuncture and for QoL, urinary symptoms, sexual dysfunction, and anxiety and extracorporeal shockwave therapy probably leads to a clinically depression might have not been validated in the subpopulation meaningful reduction in prostatitis symptoms based on an NIH- of men with CP/CPPS, therefore their values should be carefully CPSI reduction of greater than three (but less than six). These interpreted, specially using the assessment of the MCID. interventions may not have been associated with an increased incidence of adverse events. We also found that circumcision Furthermore, most studies reported results at four to 12 weeks' probably decreased prostatitis symptoms; however, the effect follow-up, which might be insufficient considering that men with would be small. We found moderate-quality evidence that tibial CP/CPPS generally have a long history of symptoms, usually for nerve stimulation probably caused an important decrease in years . prostatitis symptoms, but we have no information regarding adverse events. We had planned to explore the effect of the interventions in subgroups of men with different degrees of disease severity and in Additionally, we found low- to very low-quality evidence subgroups of men with common comorbidities , but that physical activity, biofeedback, ultrasound and transrectal the included studies provided insufficient data in this regard. thermotherapy may have reduced prostatitis symptoms. We were uncertain about the effects of lifestyle interventions, Some of the included treatments
