Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


transrectal the included studies provided insufficient data in this regard. thermotherapy may have reduced prostatitis symptoms. We were uncertain about the effects of lifestyle interventions, Some of the included treatments for the main comparisons use of an electromagnetic chair, sono-electromagnetic therapy, expressed in the 'Summary of findings' table have not been part external radiofrequency hyperthermia, prostatic massage, laser of routine care for CP/CPPS, especially circumcision (Summary of therapy, myofascial trigger point release therapy, osteopathy, findings 3) and the electromagnetic chair (Summary of findings 4). TENS, transurethral thermotherapy, transurethral needle ablation, For this statement, we used, as an example, the recommendations hypercapnic hypoxia and TaiJiQuan. We found no information by the European Association of Urology, available at uroweb.org/ regarding psychological support or prostatic surgery. guideline/chronic-pelvic-pain/ (last accessed December 2017). As the guideline authors stated, careful considerations should be Overall completeness and applicability of evidence placed when considering the applicability of these interventions in daily practice. The evidence for the electromagnetic chair is Our review focused on men with CP/CPPS. Almost all the included inconsistent for the main outcomes (very low-quality evidence). studies used the consistent inclusion criteria defined by the NIH For circumcision, the effect size was small for the main outcomes . These diagnostic criteria are related to clinical (moderate-quality evidence). Furthermore, circumcision is the only practice, since these participants are usually tested for urological intervention included in this review that entails an irreversible diseases that could mimic CP/CPPS. However, some of the impact surgical procedure. As the Evidence to Decision Framework stated, of the NIH consensus on the diagnosis of CP/CPPS might have a careful evaluation of patient's values and preferences, resource changed the classification of participants across time (Krieger use and equity issues and the acceptability and feasibility of 2002), therefore, the results of older trials must be interpreted the interventions is warranted when drafting recommendations in caution with the current diagnostic criteria. Nevertheless, we . incorporated a sensitivity analysis based on this consideration. Quality of the evidence We maintained open inclusion criteria for the included interventions. This decision was based on the poorly understood The main limitations of the body of evidence were the following. pathophysiological determinants for CP/CPPS (see Background). This led to the inclusion of a wide variety of interventions, which • Study limitations: most studies had problems when masking CPPS usually try different treatment options before achieving some is particularly important for this review
