Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


a wide variety of interventions, which • Study limitations: most studies had problems when masking CPPS usually try different treatment options before achieving some is particularly important for this review considering that all form of relief. However, while this review can be used to discuss the predefined outcomes were subjective participant-reported the different treatment options with patients, the description of outcomes. Additionally, most studies poorly reported random some of these interventions was sometimes insufficient. This was sequence generation and allocation concealment and most of particularly important for more complex interventions such as non- the studies had no published protocol or analysis plan to assess pharmacological interventions . This could pose a the risk of selective reporting. For the comparison of ESWT, we threat to the open discussion of the implications of implementing decided not to downgrade due to study limitations since the a certain intervention in clinical practice. Non-pharmacological interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (Review) 38 Cochrane Trusted evidence. Library Informed decisions. Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews results from studies with high risk of bias were consistent with methods), but this did not affect the results of the review either (see those with low/unclear risk of bias. Differences between protocol and review). • Inconsistency: we performed few meta-analyses and, in many Agreements and disagreements with other studies or cases, we found considerable heterogeneity; only in one case we found that the inconsistency was explained to a difference in the reviews criteria for disease definition. We found several systematic reviews addressing interventions • Imprecision: we estimated an optimal information size of 74 for CP/CPPS; however, only a few of them incorporated non- for the primary outcome 'prostatitis symptoms' and 50% of pharmacological interventions. the studies had a smaller sample size; therefore, most studies had imprecision. Nevertheless, in some cases, meta-analysis A systematic review by Erickson 2008 and its update by Le of some of the included studies increased the number of 2011 included some of the studies for non-pharmacological participants for each comparison, overcoming this limitation. interventions for CP/CPPS. These reviews indicated that there "zero count") resulted in considerable imprecision. These reviews also included some of the evidence for transurethral • Publication bias: due to the small number of studies in each thermotherapy and prostatic massage with similar results to ours. comparison, we could not assess the risk of publication bias. Two systematic reviews included both
