Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


small number of studies in each thermotherapy and prostatic massage with similar results to ours. comparison, we could not assess the risk of publication bias. Two systematic reviews included both pharmacological and non- Potential biases in the review process pharmacological interventions (McNaughton 2000; McNaughton 2001). We included two studies from these reviews that were not We strictly followed our published protocol to reduce the risk of bias retrieved by our search strategy (Shah 1993; Vassily 1999); however, in the conduct of this review. Nevertheless, we had to make further we did not include one study on transrectal thermotherapy since specifications due to the multiplicity of comparisons and available the participants in this study did not meet the CP/CPPS criteria outcomes to review. These specifications did not imply major . changes and they were done to provide clarity when summarising multiple comparisons (see Differences between protocol and The systematic reviews by Cohen 2012; Qin 2016b; and Magistro review), especially when drafting the 'Summary of findings' tables. 2016 included both pharmacological and non-pharmacological We acknowledge that we might have made 'Summary of findings' interventions. They included some of the studies in this review tables of each comparison, but this would not have provided addressing the effects of sono-electromagnetic therapy, ESWT, further clarity to the understanding of the findings. We also acupuncture, aerobic exercise and tibial nerve stimulation, with the highlight that even though there were no 'Summary of findings' same results. tables for some comparisons, all the findings were rated using The systematic review by Mishra 2008 focused only on prostatic GRADE methods. massage and incorporated one of the trials in our review in addition We performed a comprehensive search in multiple databases, to several case series. trial registries and other sources to reduce the risk of meta-bias The systematic review by Chang 2016 addressing acupuncture in our review. Additionally, we did not restrict the searches or for CP/CPPS incorporated three additional studies from Chinese inclusion of studies on the basis of language of publication; for this journals and failed to include one of the trials in our review since purpose, we incorporated three authors with expertise in Chinese, the review searched Chinese databases. One of these additional Russian and Korean. Nevertheless, we were unable to retrieve included studies was excluded in our review since it used a quasi- some of the studies on acupuncture published in some Chinese randomised allocation .
