Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


we were unable to retrieve included studies was excluded in our review since it used a quasi- some of the studies on acupuncture published in some Chinese randomised allocation . We asked the study authors journals that were included in other reviews that searched Chinese for the remaining two studies. Nevertheless, the two meta- Databases (see Agreements and disagreements with other studies analyses reported by this review yielded similar results in terms or reviews). Should we find the report of these studies, they will of reduction of prostatitis symptoms (NIH-CPSI scores) and an be evaluated for inclusion in updates of this review, since we have increased response rate with acupuncture in comparison to sham no clear information regarding their eligibility. Nevertheless, the procedures or medical therapy, with a similar incidence of adverse reported results of these studies in the corresponding reviews were events. Another systematic review by Liu 2016 also focusing on consistent with our findings. acupuncture for CP/CPPS incorporated four additional studies from We contacted study authors on multiple occasions with a variable Chinese journals (different from those found by Chang 2016) and rate of response. However, we acknowledge that many of the failed to include one of the trials in our review. One of these ratings of 'unclear' risk of bias were due to limitations in the report additional included studies was also Ma 2015. We asked the study of the studies, rather than a true risk of bias in the conduct of these authors for the remaining three studies. Nevertheless, the two trials. meta-analysis reported by this review yielded similar results in terms of reduction of prostatitis symptoms (NIH-CPSI scores) and We deleted the 'Clinical Phenotyping' item as an intervention in our an increased response rate with acupuncture in comparison to review, as suggested by a peer reviewer. We acknowledge that this sham procedures or medical therapy, with a similar incidence of strategy might not constitute in itself an intervention. However, this adverse events. Furthermore, a systematic review by Qin 2016a change has not affected the results of this review since we found included three additional trials (one of them not identified in no trials on this subject. We also modified the presentation of some the previous review); however, the reported meta-analysis yielded of the methods of this review (assessment of outcomes and GRADE similar results in terms of reduction of prostatitis symptoms (NIH- CPSI scores). We
