Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


review); however, the reported meta-analysis yielded of the methods of this review (assessment of outcomes and GRADE similar results in terms of reduction of prostatitis symptoms (NIH- CPSI scores). We asked the study authors for the remaining studies. Non-pharmacological interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (Review) 39 Cochrane Trusted evidence. Library Informed decisions. Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews included six additional studies (different from those found in Chang methods for greater transparency regarding potential sources 2016; Liu 2016; and Qin 2016a). We asked the study authors for the of bias. Additionally, acknowledging the subjective nature of remaining studies. Nevertheless, the meta-analysis reported by this the participant-reported outcomes that are critical for decision review yielded similar results in terms of an increased response rate making, masking of these interventions is warranted; with acupuncture in comparison to sham procedures or medical • future studies should include a greater variety of outcomes, therapy, with a similar incidence of adverse events (this review also including sexual dysfunction, quality of life, and depression and highlighted the poor reporting of adverse events in the literature). anxiety since this would represent the actual impact of these interventions on participants with CP/CPPS. Additionally, long- A U T H O R S ' C O N C L U S I O N S term follow-up is needed, recognising the chronicity of this condition. It also is essential for studies to report the incidence Implications for practice of adverse events to assess the net benefit of the interventions; Based on the findings of moderate quality evidence, this review • ideally, studies should include more than 74 participants to found that some non-pharmacological interventions such as reduce imprecision of the findings when considering prostatitis and tibial nerve stimulation can cause a decrease in prostatitis Prostatitis Symptom Index (NIH-CPSI) score. Larger sample sizes symptoms and may not be associated with a greater incidence of are required when assessing the number of responders to adverse events. However, given the large qualitative differences of treatment or other outcomes; considering the men's values and preferences, their acceptability, implications of the interventions, to guarantee reproducibility; the feasibility of their implementation and the use of resources. • considering the high comorbidity of participants with CP/CPPS, it is important for studies to include participants with comorbid There is greater uncertainty regarding the effectiveness of conditions to assess subgroup effects. other therapies such as:
