Cochrane
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, symptoms, studies, chronic, analysis, study, quality, risk, prostatitis symptoms, participants, bias, effect, pain, outcome, evidence


participants with CP/CPPS, it is important for studies to include participants with comorbid There is greater uncertainty regarding the effectiveness of conditions to assess subgroup effects. other therapies such as: lifestyle modifications, physical activity, prostatic massage, electromagnetic chair, transrectal A C K N O W L E D G E M E N T S thermotherapy, sono-electromagnetic therapy, ultrasound therapy, biofeedback, external radiofrequency, laser therapy, We thank the following people and organisations. myofascial trigger point release, osteopathy, trans-electrical nerve stimulation, transurethral thermotherapy, transurethral needle • Cochrane Urology Group for providing guidelines and templates ablation, hypercapnic hypoxia and TaiJiQuan. While there is low- for protocol and review development, especially Alea Miller and quality evidence of the effects of some of these interventions Phillip Dahm who provided close feedback and advice. such as lifestyle changes and physical activity, they are relatively • Instituto Universitario Hospital Italiano de Buenos Aires safe and they are recommended as part of a healthy lifestyle Cochrane Collaborating Centre, Argentina. for multiple conditions. Conversely, prostatic massage has been • Family and Community Medicine Service and Urology Service, widely used for CP/CPPS and we still have great uncertainty about its effect and, therefore, it should be carefully assessed before being • Iván Solá and Jennifer Lyon for their contribution to the search recommended. The remaining interventions are still experimental. strategy. Implications for research • Jonathan Rees, Giuseppe Magistro and Florian Wagenlehner for their peer-review input of the protocol. Given the low-quality evidence of the research included in this • Federico Tirapegui contributed to the 'Background' section of review, there is need for additional research with regards to the the protocol and assisted in the data extraction tasks. effects of some of the included interventions considering that: • Byung-Cheol Lee, Giuseppe Magistro and Jordan Dimitrakoff for their peer-review input of the review. Non-pharmacological interventions for treating chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (Review) 40 Cochrane Trusted evidence. Library Informed decisions. Better health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
