Ghrelinoma
KEYWORDS: ghrelin, pubmed, levels, patients, ghrelin levels, gastric, nets, plasma, neuroendocrine, elevated, secretion, total, acylated, tumors, net


ABSTRACT Ghrelin is a 28 amino acid, acylated peptide mainly produced in the P/D1 neuroendocrine cells of the stomach wall. The peptide stimulates growth hormone release by acting on both the pituitary and hypothalamus, but also stimulates ACTH and prolactin as well as gastric acid secretion and intestinal motility. Ghrelin also increases appetite and food intake. Expression of ghrelin protein and mRNA has been identified in high percentages of gastric neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) but also intestinal and pancreatic NETs. Theoretically, a ghrelinoma could cause acromegaly, diabetes mellitus, diarrhea and gastric acid hypersecretion. Small numbers of cases with elevated plasma ghrelin have been reported. However, patients often have non-specific symptoms, that do not resemble the theoretical syndrome of a ghrelinoma. This suggests a low biological activity of these elevated ghrelin levels, which could by related to the ratio of acylated ghrelin and unacylated ghrelin. At this time the clinical relevance of hyperghrelinemia for NETs remains limited. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . GHRELIN Ghrelin is a 28 amino acid, acylated peptide mainly produced in the P/D1 neuroendocrine cells of the stomach wall ( 1 , 2 ). It was discovered in 1999 by Kojima and colleagues as a ligand for the growth-hormone secretagogues receptor 1a (GHS-R1a), purified from rat stomach extract ( 1 ). Ghrelin expression has been found in multiple organs including the bowel, adrenal gland, thyroid, ovary, testis, prostate, liver kidneys and myocardium ( 2 - 5 ). On top of this, ghrelin is produced in the central nervous system, particularly in the hypothalamus ( 6 ). Two isoforms of ghrelin can be found in equal amounts in the circulation: acylated ghrelin (AG) and unacylated ghrelin (UAG) ( 7 ). AG is formed when a hydroxyl group on one of UAGs serine residues is acylated by Ghrelin O-Acyltransferase (GOAT). The acylation allows AG to cross the blood-brain barrier and bind to the GHS-R1a and thereby stimulate growth hormone (GH) release in the pituitary and GHRH in the hypothalamus ( 8 ). Vice versa, GH infusion has been shown to decreases ghrelin levels ( 9 ). Other effects of ghrelin on the pituitary include stimulation of CRH dependent ACTH release, prolactin secretion and suppression of gonadotrophins ( 9 ). UAG does not bind to the GHS-R1a and was previously considered to be inactive, but currently both AG and UAG
