Ghrelinoma
KEYWORDS: ghrelin, pubmed, levels, patients, ghrelin levels, gastric, nets, plasma, neuroendocrine, elevated, secretion, total, acylated, tumors, net


release, prolactin secretion and suppression of gonadotrophins ( 9 ). UAG does not bind to the GHS-R1a and was previously considered to be inactive, but currently both AG and UAG have been shown to influence glycemic regulation. When AG is administered to healthy individuals, insulin levels decline and plasma glucose levels increase. Coadministration of AG and UAG blunts the AG-induced alteration in insulin and glucose levels, suggesting UAG is an antagonist for AG ( 10 ). Ghrelin also has an important role in fasting. Plasma ghrelin levels rise preprandially and stimulates appetite, increases intestinal motility and gastric acid secretion ( 11 ). Acutely increased ghrelin levels stimulate lipolysis, however chronic administration of AG results in lipogenesis ( 12 , 13 ). Lastly, cardiovascular effects of ghrelin have been reported including vasodilation and an increased cardiac index and stroke volume ( 14 ). In Table 1 an overview of the effects of AG is provided. Table 1. Effects of Ghrelin View in own window Site of action Acylated ghrelin action. Potential ghrelinoma symptoms Pituitary ↑ GH secretion ↑ ACTH secretion ↑ PRL secretion ↓ LH in men/↓FSH and LH in women Acromegaly Cushing syndrome Hypogonadism Hypothalamus ↑ GHRH secretion ↑ CRH secretion ↓ GnRH pulse generator ↑ Food intake (via NPY) and appetite See pituitary Pancreas ↓ Insulin secretion (spontaneous and glucose stimulated) ↑ Glucose levels ↑ Glycogenolysis ↑ Glucagon secretion Diabetes mellitus Adipose tissue ↑ Lipogenesis (chronic) ↑ Lipolysis (acute) Absence of cancer cachexia Cardiovascular system ↑ Cardiac output ↑ Cardiac contractility ↓ Systemic vascular resistances ↑ Vasodilation Gastrointestinal system ↑ Gastric emptying ↑ Gastric acid secretion ↑ Gastric and intestinal motility Gastric acid hypersecretion Diarrhea Liver ↑ IGF-1 Table modified from Motta G. et al; Natural and Synthetic Growth Hormone Secretagogues. Encyclopedia of Endocrine Diseases ( 27 ) GHRELIN AND NEUROENDOCRINE TUMORS Based upon the physiologic effects of ghrelin one would expect that the clinical features of a ghrelinoma would include hyperglycemia (decreased insulin secretion) and GH excess with elevated IGF-1 and potentially features of acromegaly. Gastrointestinal symptoms could include hyperphagia and gastric acid hypersecretion ( Table 1 ). The severity of these symptoms would probably also depend on the AG/UAG ratio. This complete syndrome has not been described in a patient to date, while tumor ghrelin immunoreactivity occurs frequently in neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) and in a small number of patients elevated plasma ghrelin levels have been found. Expression
