Ghrelinoma
KEYWORDS: ghrelin, pubmed, levels, patients, ghrelin levels, gastric, nets, plasma, neuroendocrine, elevated, secretion, total, acylated, tumors, net


in a patient to date, while tumor ghrelin immunoreactivity occurs frequently in neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) and in a small number of patients elevated plasma ghrelin levels have been found. Expression of ghrelin protein and/or mRNA has been detected in a high percentage of gastric, intestinal and pancreatic NETs. Gastric NETs are regarded to derive from Enterochromaffin-Like (ECL) cells. They are classified as type 1 if they are associated with atrophic gastritis. Type 2 gastric NETs are associated with a gastrin-producing neuroendocrine tumors (Zollinger-Ellison syndrome) and type 3 gastric NETs are sporadic ( 15 ). Ghrelin expression is lacking in ECL cells in physiological conditions ( 2 ), but in gastric NETs ghrelin is frequently expressed. Rindi and colleagues used immunohistochemistry to identify the ghrelin peptide in 86% of type 1, 67% of type 2, and 50% of type 3 gastric NETs ( 16 ). Also, high ghrelin expression can be observed within neuroendocrine hyperplasia of the stomach (associated with type 1 and 2 NETs). Despite the expression of ghrelin, these hyperplastic neuroendocrine cells are currently still regarded to derive from ECL cells as they display VMAT2 immunoreactivity, which is a specific marker for ECL cells ( 17 ). It is hypothesized that ECL cells secrete ghrelin in proliferative states, potentially under the influence of gastrin. In the same study, eight intestinal NETs didn’t express ghrelin immunohistochemically. Similar findings were reported by Papotti and colleagues, but they additionally detected ghrelin mRNA in 72% of intestinal carcinoids through in situ hybridization ( 18 ). These intestinal NETs were mostly negative for IHC suggesting that lower concentrations of ghrelin might be present, although below the detection limit of IHC or translation is absent. In pancreatic NETs, around 40% of tumors showed ghrelin immunoreactivity, whilst in situ hybridization revealed ghrelin mRNA in 68% of pNET, including non-functioning pNET, insulinoma, glucagonoma, and VIPoma ( 19 , 20 ). Normal pancreatic islet cells have also been demonstrated to express ghrelin peptide. The co-expression of ghrelin in a variety of NETs may also represent the common stem cell origin of the different enteroendocrine cell types ( 5 ). Actual elevated plasma ghrelin levels in patients with a NET have only sporadically been measured ( Table 2 ). In a study screening 26 patients with pNETs, mean plasma total ghrelin levels were similar between patients and healthy controls ( 20 ). However, plasma total ghrelin levels were elevated
