HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, author manuscript, manuscript, ald, use, cirrhosis, liver, alcohol use, manuscript author, study, mortality, risk, disease


treatment option in patients with advanced cirrhosis, should be considered in selected patients with AH, who are unresponsive to medical therapy and have a low risk of relapse to posttransplant alcohol use. Level of evidence and strength of recommendations were evaluated using the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, of Gastroenterology Practice Parameters Committee. Keywords ALD; AH; cirrhosis; transplantation; mortality INTRODUCTION Alcohol-associated liver disease (ALD) is a leading cause of preventable liver-related morbidity and mortality worldwide, including the United States. Harmful drinking (≥3 drinks/d or ≥21/wk in men and ≥2 drinks/d or ≥14/wk in women) is a risk factor for liver damage and ALD and often occurs in the setting of alcohol use disorder (AUD) (1,2). This pattern of alcohol use is associated with negative social and/or health consequences. The spectrum of ALD ranges from steatosis and steatohepatitis to progressive fibrosis, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and includes the unique presentation of alcohol- associated hepatitis (AH), with development of acute on chronic liver failure (ACLF) in more severe forms (Figure 1). The diagnosis of ALD requires identification of chronic, harmful alcohol use, by patient report or detection of alcohol biomarkers, and exclusion of other diseases affecting the liver. It should be acknowledged that harmful alcohol use can accelerate progression of other hepatic diseases including metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD). Individuals with early ALD may be asymptomatic, with steatosis or steatohepatitis and early stage fibrosis. Advanced patients with ALD may have advanced fibrosis including cirrhosis, complications of cirrhosis with decompensating events (ascites, hepatic encephalopathy, variceal bleeding, and HCC), or symptomatic AH with jaundice and/or ACLF (1). Treatment of AUD with achievement of sustained abstinence is the most effective strategy to prevent disease progression and improve long-term outcomes at any stage of ALD. Liver transplantation (LT) remains a definitive treatment option for patients with end-stage liver disease due to alcohol-associated cirrhosis and/or HCC. Important advances in our understanding of ALD have occurred, including (i) insights into the natural history and prevalence of early ALD among at-risk individuals with harmful alcohol use or AUD; (ii) increasing prevalence of severe forms of ALD in younger individuals, women, and minorities such as Hispanics and American Indians; (iii) genetic and environmental factors that influence disease susceptibility and progression; (iv) noninvasive techniques to assess liver fibrosis in patients with early ALD; (v) identifying patients at high risk of disease progression; (vi) clinical criteria for diagnosis of AH simplifying
