HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, author manuscript, manuscript, ald, use, cirrhosis, liver, alcohol use, manuscript author, study, mortality, risk, disease


progression; (iv) noninvasive techniques to assess liver fibrosis in patients with early ALD; (v) identifying patients at high risk of disease progression; (vi) clinical criteria for diagnosis of AH simplifying decisions on treatment and recruitment in clinical trials; (vii) benefits of early Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript liver transplantation (LT) (i.e., with <6 months of alcohol abstinence) with increasing momentum on acceptability and refinement of selection criteria for this salvage therapeutic option in patients with severe AH; and (viii) the role of multidisciplinary integrated clinical care models including hepatology and addiction specialists to manage the dual pathologies of liver disease and of AUD, respectively, to improve long-term outcomes of patients with ALD. Although significant progress has been made in the therapeutic pipeline for patients with ALD and AH, continued efforts are critical in the development of effective pharmacotherapeutic options. The authors were invited by the Board of Trustees and Practice Parameters Committee of the American College of Gastroenterology (ACG) to develop this practice guideline document on the management of patients with ALD. Recommendations based on patient-intervention-comparison-outcome (PICO) format/Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluations (GRADE) analysis are summarized in Table 1. These recommendations and guidelines should be tailored to individual patients and circumstances in routine clinical practice. Key concepts and recommendations based on author expert opinion and review of literature are summarized in Table 2. To develop these guidelines, a search was performed on the Ovid search platform: Epub Ahead of Print, In-Process & Other Non-Indexed Citations, Ovid MEDLINE(R) Daily and Ovid MEDLINE(R), EBM Reviews Cochrane Central Registry of Controlled Trials, EMBASE, and PsycInfo for the period January 1980 to December 2022. Where appropriate, the PICO method was used as a means of addressing key clinical questions specific to patients with ALD. When a PICO format was not appropriate, the area of interest was included as a statement or key concept. To evaluate the level of evidence and strength of recommendations, we used the GRADE system, as suggested by the ACG Practice Parameters Committee. The strength of recommendation is graded as strong or conditional as a consensus among the authors, considering the weight of desirable and undesirable effects of intervention. The level of evidence was determined by members of the GRADE team at ACG (R.J.W. and B.G.S.), and this determination was made independently of the other
