HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, author manuscript, manuscript, ald, use, cirrhosis, liver, alcohol use, manuscript author, study, mortality, risk, disease


and 22% in 2021 compared with prepandemic rates (14). Hospitalizations for ALD have also increased especially among younger individuals, women, and minorities such as American Indians and Hispanics (9,15). Women are less likely to use AUD therapies and prevention services than men, possibly related to more perceived stigma, conflicting child/family and personal needs, and financial barriers (16). A modeling study showed that the 1-year increase in alcohol consumption during the COVID-19 pandemic could result in 8,000 additional ALD-related deaths, 18,700 cases of decompensated cirrhosis, and 1,000 new diagnoses of HCC between 2020 and 2040 (17). From 2010 to 2016, ALD had the highest economic cost burden for hospitalizations of any etiology of liver disease in the United States, with a total cost of $22.7 billion (95% confidence interval [CI] $22.1–$23.2 billion), and although hospitalizations for hepatitis B virus (HBV), HCV, MASLD, and HCC down trended or remained stable over this time, there was a near doubling of hospitalization for ALD (6). These figures become more relevant considering that ALD contributes to 50% of overall burden of liver disease but only receives 5% of the mean research funding (18). RISK FACTORS FOR ALD Harmful drinking is a pattern of alcohol use leading to health or psychosocial problems and is the primary risk factor for the development of ALD (19). Increasing evidence suggests that there are minimal or even no health benefits to drinking and that any amount of alcohol use has potential to cause harm; however, it is estimated that only 10%–20% of individuals with chronic heavy alcohol use develop cirrhosis (20). There is a dose-dependent and duration-dependent relationship between the amount of alcohol intake and the likelihood of developing advanced forms of ALD (21-23), yet extensive individual variability exists because of genetic factors and the existence of comorbidities (e.g., metabolic syndrome). Furthermore, patients with early ALD are reported to consume similar amounts of alcohol to those with AH, suggesting that there are other factors (Figure 1) which contribute to the risk for and severity of ALD (24). Those factors may include sex and drinking outside of meals. For example, in the Million Women UK Study, among women who drank, drinking with meals carried a 31% lower relative risk for cirrhosis when compared with usually drinking outside of meals (23). Women are at a higher risk for ALD at a lower daily intake of alcohol compared with men, probably due to
