HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, author manuscript, manuscript, ald, use, cirrhosis, liver, alcohol use, manuscript author, study, mortality, risk, disease


when compared with usually drinking outside of meals (23). Women are at a higher risk for ALD at a lower daily intake of alcohol compared with men, probably due to higher body fat component and lower gastric alcohol dehydrogenase activity (25). Binge drinking (see Table 3 for this and other definitions of alcohol use patterns) is reported in 26% of individuals aged 18 years or older in the United States (19). It is speculated that higher blood alcohol levels with binge and high intensity Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript drinking promote bacterial translocation (26) and liver fibrosis (27); however, the exact role of binge drinking as a risk factor for cirrhosis remains to be established (28). Although daily drinking is associated with higher risk of cirrhosis (29), it is plausible that heavy drinking with superimposed binge and high intensity drinking have additive effects. Importantly, binge drinking in patients with underlying metabolic syndrome has been associated with higher likelihood of cirrhosis (30). Large epidemiological studies have suggested that wine or beer consumption, perhaps due to antioxidant properties, is less associated with ALD than liquor-based drinking (31,32). However, a study of 43,242 men conscribed to military service in Sweden in 1970 with follow-up data obtained from population-based registries showed only a trend toward reduced risk for severe liver disease in men consuming more than 50% of alcohol as wine compared with those consuming < 1% of alcohol as wine (hazard ratio [HR] 0.70, 95% CI 0.48–01.02, P = 0.06) (33). Studies are needed to examine the effects of specific alcohol additives and adulterants on the likelihood or severity of ALD. Earlier studies have shown that monozygotic twins have a higher concordance for alcohol-associated cirrhosis than dizygotic twins (34). Significant variant alleles conveying risk for the development and severity of ALD include the patatin-like phospholipase domain containing protein 3 (PNPLA3) rs738409, transmembrane 6 superfamily member 2 (TM6SF2), and membrane bound O-acyltransferase domain containing 7 (MBOAT7) rs641738 (35,36). Interestingly, the combination of polymorphisms of some of these genes in the presence of diabetes predicts the development of cirrhosis (37). Variations in PNPLA3 also predispose to the development of HCC in patients with alcohol-associated cirrhosis (36,38). In another study, the Pi*Z homozygous variant of α-1 antitrypsin gene in individuals with AUD was more frequently present in those with cirrhosis compared with
