HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, author manuscript, manuscript, ald, use, cirrhosis, liver, alcohol use, manuscript author, study, mortality, risk, disease


elevated transaminases, steatosis, severity of fibrosis, cirrhosis, and HCC (51). Moreover, the presence of obesity among heavy drinkers is associated with increased likelihood of having cirrhosis (50,51). In another study, individuals with harmful alcohol consumption who are obese or overweight compared with normal weight were at 1.5-fold risk for any liver disease and 2.2-fold risk for death (52). Although large epidemiological studies initially suggested that moderate alcohol consumption may protect against MASLD (53,54), more recent studies using individual data indicate that even moderate drinking can favor the development of liver disease in people with obesity and metabolic syndrome (55,56). Diabetes also seems to exacerbate the development of liver disease in people who drink. A recent study revealed that having diabetes in the setting of heavy alcohol use was associated with a 6-fold higher risk of a liver-related admission, mortality, and HCC (57). Interestingly, although bariatric surgery can alleviate or reverse MASLD, it can be a risk factor for the development of AUD and consequent ALD (58,59). Gastric bypass anatomy is associated with a 2- to 3-fold increased risk for the diagnosis of AH (60). Furthermore, a recent study of the national inpatient sample showed that among admissions for alcohol-associated cirrhosis (N = 10,168), a concurrent diagnosis of AH was higher in those with vs without a history of Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (18.8% vs 17% P = 0.032) (61). Alcohol use is a frequent cofactor in individuals with HCV infection, and heavy daily alcohol use (>50 g) was shown to be an independent risk factor for hepatic fibrosis progression in HCV patients with viremia (62). The dose-dependent deleterious effects of alcohol in HCV have been recently revealed in a meta-analysis of 33 studies from 21,919 participants, demonstrating that each daily drink increased the risk for cirrhosis, decompensated cirrhosis, and liver-related mortality by 11.2% (63). Moreover, individuals with chronic HCV who drank > 6 standard drinks daily had a >50-fold increased risk of developing HCC than those who did not drink (64). Several studies have shown that alcohol drinking worsens the course of HBV liver disease. In a cohort study of adults hospitalized with chronic liver disease and concurrent alcohol use of > 3 drinks per day, HBsAg-positive patients had 2-fold increased odds of cirrhosis compared with patients without HBV (odds ratio [OR] 4.8, CI 1.8–12.4 vs OR 2.4, CI 1.3–4.2) (65). In a prospective cohort study of 966 patients with cirrhosis
