HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, author manuscript, manuscript, ald, use, cirrhosis, liver, alcohol use, manuscript author, study, mortality, risk, disease


mortality in a meta-analysis of 7 studies on 309,991 persons. In this study where 18,920 deaths were observed over 2–10 years of follow-up (72), those with AUD had a 24% higher relative risk of dying compared with moderate drinkers (72). A limitation of this meta-analysis was that 97% of study population represented veterans, with a sparse representation of young adults and women. The cutting down annoyance by criticism guilt eye opener questionnaire, another tool to gauge alcohol use, assesses the dependence on alcohol and does not quantify alcohol use. A single question “how many times in the past year have you had 5 or more drinks (4 or more for women) at one time” can also be used to identify those with harmful alcohol use. Universal screening for AUD at any healthcare encounter Screening all patients for AUD is feasible in the healthcare setting (77-80). For example, admitting nurses in a large hospital emergency department performed alcohol use screening in 637 patients using AUDIT and modified-for-Australia version of the Paddington Alcohol test. The Australia version of the Paddington Alcohol test performed moderately well compared with AUDIT (kappa statistics of 0.63, P < 0.001), with a sensitivity and specificity of 72.5 (65.3%–79.7%) and 90.8 (88.3%–93.4%), respectively (81). A targeted approach to screening in the healthcare setting by selecting individuals with complaints anecdotally associated with harmful drinking has also been explored. A multicenter study of 3,021 patients from 29 primary care offices found that alcohol screening in a population of minor injuries had a higher odds ratio for harmful alcohol consumption than in a universally screened population without these complaints (1.65, 95% CI 1.41–1.93) (82). Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Indirect biomarkers of alcohol reflecting alcohol-induced tissue damage (i.e., gamma- glutamyltransferase, mean corpuscular volume, and carbohydrate-deficient transferrin) (83) have high individual variability and limited utility (34). Direct alcohol biomarkers including blood alcohol concentration (84), ethyl glucuronide, ethyl sulfate (85-91), and phosphatidylethanol (92) seem to have better performance than indirect biomarkers. For the detection of recent alcohol use in individuals with liver disease (93), alcohol biomarkers have variable temporal windows of detection, sensitivity, and specificity as detailed in Table 4. For patients who disclose heavy recent drinking, alcohol biomarkers provide no added clinical utility. Biomarkers may be helpful to identify recent alcohol use in patients who cannot be interviewed
