HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, author manuscript, manuscript, ald, use, cirrhosis, liver, alcohol use, manuscript author, study, mortality, risk, disease


4. For patients who disclose heavy recent drinking, alcohol biomarkers provide no added clinical utility. Biomarkers may be helpful to identify recent alcohol use in patients who cannot be interviewed because of encephalopathy or intoxication or when reported alcohol use is suspected to be inaccurate. Nonpharmacologic therapies for AUD include motivational interviewing, screening, brief intervention (BI), referral, and treatment, BI, cognitive behavioral therapy, motivational enhancement therapy, and 12-step facilitation/Alcoholics Anonymous. The former 3 approaches can be performed by any healthcare provider using a foundation of motivational interviewing techniques, while the latter 3 require specialty expertise. Motivational interviewing is a non-judgmental, nonconfrontational conversational technique aimed to increase a person’s awareness of the problems caused, consequences experienced, and risks faced because of an undesirable behavior ( SAMHSA_Digital_Download/PEP20-[DATE].pdf). It is important that the interviewer exhibits an empathic attitude and a collaborative approach, regarding the individual’s autonomy (94,95). Screening, BI, referral, and treatment is a comprehensive approach with proven efficacy in reducing short-term and long-term (96,97) alcohol use in persons with AUD. BI based on the 5 “A” model (ask about use, advice to quit or reduce, assess alcohol-related harms was shown to reduce alcohol use in a study of more than 9,000 individuals with mild AUD (AUDIT score 8–20) in a primary care setting (77). Seven patients needed to be treated to achieve reduction of alcohol use to within recommended limits in one patient (77). A 2018 meta-analysis of 69 studies including more than 33,000 participants showed a reduction in alcohol consumption by 20 g/wk after a BI in the primary care setting (98). A 2018 Cochrane review showed that 12-step facilitation/Alcoholics Anonymous had the most promise for decreasing drinking behavior when compared with cognitive behavioral therapy or no treatment; however, liver-related endpoints were not reported (99). Pharmacotherapy of AUD is effective (1,100) and is associated with reduced risk of ALD and disease progression in those with cirrhosis (101,102). In the setting of ALD cirrhosis, the use of medication-assisted therapies is cost-effective because of benefits in reducing clinical decompensation and readmission to the hospital (103). There are 3 US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved medications (disulfiram, acamprosate, and naltrexone) for AUD and others that have shown utility in patients that are not US FDA- approved. In patients with advanced liver disease including cirrhosis and AH, baclofen (GABA-B receptor agonist), a non-US FDA-approved drug, has been studied the most. Baclofen use for an average
