HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, author manuscript, manuscript, ald, use, cirrhosis, liver, alcohol use, manuscript author, study, mortality, risk, disease


FDA- approved. In patients with advanced liver disease including cirrhosis and AH, baclofen (GABA-B receptor agonist), a non-US FDA-approved drug, has been studied the most. Baclofen use for an average duration of 5.8 months has been shown to safely reduce alcohol use in patients with AH (104) and increase abstinence rates in those with ALD cirrhosis Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript (105,106). The medication is started in a dose of 5 mg 3 times a day, with dose escalation at 3–5-day intervals based on patient tolerance to a maximum dose of 15 mg 3 times a day. Acamprosate does not undergo hepatic metabolism, and a recent retrospective analysis suggests that its use in cirrhotic patients is safe (107); however, a retrospective cohort study revealed that acamprosate use for the treatment of AUD in individuals without a diagnosis of ALD at the start of treatment was associated with the development of ALD (OR 2.59, 95% CI 1.84–3.61, P < 0.001). However, this could have been a selection bias with preferential treatment of those at risk for development of ALD, or it is possible that the diagnosis of ALD was missed before recruiting patients into the trial. Nevertheless, acamprosate use for AUD trended to a higher odds ratio for the development of hepatic decompensation in individuals with well-compensated cirrhosis at the start of treatment (OR 1.99, 95% CI 0.99–4.059, P = 0.06) (102). If acamprosate is used, caution should be taken in patients with concurrent kidney disease, with dose adjustment if the creatinine clearance is between 30 and 50 and avoidance if below 30 mL/min. Both short-term and long-term acting forms of naltrexone may be used in individuals with early ALD and in those with compensated cirrhosis but should be avoided in patients with decompensated cirrhosis or liver failure and used cautiously in patients with kidney disease (108). There are no data for acamprosate or naltrexone on the duration of treatment and use in patients with AH. Other pharmacological agents with off-label use for AUD include gabapentin and topiramate (109). Gabapentin and topiramate have demonstrated acceptable safety profiles in individuals with ALD (102), although large, prospective trials are needed. Data are emerging on the potential role for glucagon like peptide-1 receptor agonists in the treatment of AUD (110). Despite having US FDA approval for AUD, disulfiram is contraindicated
