HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, author manuscript, manuscript, ald, use, cirrhosis, liver, alcohol use, manuscript author, study, mortality, risk, disease


needed. Data are emerging on the potential role for glucagon like peptide-1 receptor agonists in the treatment of AUD (110). Despite having US FDA approval for AUD, disulfiram is contraindicated in individuals with liver disease of any spectrum because it is completely metabolized by the liver and hepatotoxic. Idiosyncratic liver injury of an immunoallergic mechanism has been well-described with disulfiram use and, although rare, seems more common in individuals with pre-existing liver disease (111). Furthermore, disulfiram does not seem effective in preventing development or progression of liver disease in individuals with AUD. In a retrospective cohort study of patients lacking ALD, those treated with any pharmacologic agent for AUD had a lower odds ratio for the development of ALD (OR 0.37, CI 0.31– 0.43, P < 0.001); however, when disulfiram was examined in disaggregate, it showed no effect (OR 0.86, CI 0.43–1.61, P = 0.66). In individuals with cirrhosis, treatment with any pharmacologic agent for AUD was protective against hepatic decompensation (OR 0.35, CI 0.23–0.53, P < 0.001); however, when analyzed in disaggregate, disulfiram again showed no effect (OR 2.59, CI 0.54–13.26, P = 0.24) (102). AWS is a common condition affecting alcohol-dependent patients who abruptly discontinue or markedly decrease alcohol consumption. A recent study showed that AWS is frequent in patients with AH and negatively affects survival (112). Mild or moderate AWS usually develops within 6–24 hours after the last drink, and symptoms may include nausea/vomiting, hypertension, tachycardia, tremors, hyperreflexia, irritability, anxiety, and headache. These symptoms may progress to more severe forms of AWS, characterized by Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript delirium tremens, generalized seizures, coma, and even cardiac arrest and death. Older individuals are at greater risk for delirium tremens. Those with moderate or severe AWS are typically monitored in an intensive care unit, where vital signs, volume status, and neurological function can be monitored closely. Severity scores for AWS such as the they have not been validated in persons with severe ALD and a symptom-triggered approach is preferred (113-117). Benzodiazepines are the most used drugs to treat AWS. Long-acting benzodiazepines (e.g., diazepam and chlordiazepoxide) protect against seizures and delirium; short-acting and intermediate-acting benzodiazepines (e.g., lorazepam and oxazepam) are safer for patients with poor liver function (118,119). Oral administration is preferred for administration of benzodiazepines and barbiturates (112). Patients with AWS and concomitant hepatic
