HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, author manuscript, manuscript, ald, use, cirrhosis, liver, alcohol use, manuscript author, study, mortality, risk, disease


(e.g., lorazepam and oxazepam) are safer for patients with poor liver function (118,119). Oral administration is preferred for administration of benzodiazepines and barbiturates (112). Patients with AWS and concomitant hepatic encephalopathy should be treated for both conditions. Of note, benzodiazepines may precipitate and worsen hepatic encephalopathy; thus, careful monitoring and the dose titration are critical for optimal outcomes. Given the side effects of benzodiazepines in patients with advanced liver disease and the potential for abuse with repeated use, other drugs such as baclofen, clonidine, gabapentin, and topiramate have been proposed to treat AWS in persons with ALD including alcohol-associated cirrhosis. However, the efficacy and safety of these medications in individuals with AH is unknown, and therefore, prospective studies are required. ALD DISEASE SPECTRUM Fibrosis assessment among asymptomatic individuals with suspected ALD (Figure 2) is important because fibrosis correlates with long-term outcomes including survival (120-122). Liver biopsy is an invasive and costly procedure that is indicated when there are diagnostic uncertainties or suspected competing diagnoses. Several NITs have been assessed in this population (1,123). Among blood-based nonpatented markers, Fibrosis-4 (FIB-4) has been most studied and shown to have high sensitivity (80%–90%), but low specificity (60%–70%) in excluding advanced fibrosis (F3-4). The enhanced liver fibrosis score and FibroTest are patented blood-based biomarkers with higher specificity (80%–90%), but with higher cost and limited availability, especially in resource-constrained settings (120). It should be acknowledged that enhanced liver fibrosis is not as well validated in patients with ALD as other etiologies such as HCV and MASLD (124). Furthermore, platelets can be reduced by active alcohol use, which can affect the accuracy of FIB-4 as a noninvasive serological marker for fibrosis assessment in patients with ALD (1). Among radiological tests, vibration-controlled transient elastography, a test of liver stiffness measurement (LSM), has been most extensively evaluated for fibrosis assessment in patients with ALD. Multiple meta-analyses have found acceptable sensitivity and specificity, especially for advanced fibrosis (F3-F4) (122,125,126). For example, in a meta-analysis of 1,026 patients with ALD using individual patient data, a cutoff LSM of 12.1 kPa was fairly accurate to identify advanced fibrosis with receiver operating characteristics of 0.90 (95% CI 0.86–0.94) (122). It should be noted that underlying inflammation and steatohepatitis as reflected by aspartate aminotransferase levels >200 I/L and/or elevated serum bilirubin may confound and overestimate the LSM in patients with ALD (122). As the fibrosis stage is the strongest Am J Gastroenterol. Author
