HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, author manuscript, manuscript, ald, use, cirrhosis, liver, alcohol use, manuscript author, study, mortality, risk, disease


aminotransferase levels >200 I/L and/or elevated serum bilirubin may confound and overestimate the LSM in patients with ALD (122). As the fibrosis stage is the strongest Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript predictor of prognosis in liver disease (127), individuals with advanced fibrosis and active drinking should be referred to a liver specialist and an alcohol addiction specialist (121). ALD is often undetected until irreversible, late-stage decompensated disease manifests. Consequently, there is an unmet need for effective and economically reasonable pathways to screen for advanced fibrosis among persons who drink alcohol. Studies have demonstrated that the use of NITs is cost-efficient in detecting advanced fibrosis in people with excessive alcohol intake (128,129). Furthermore, in a study compiling prospective data from 6 independent cohorts of 6,295 individuals, vibration-controlled transient elastography screening of the general population was less cost-effective than screening of individuals with heavy alcohol use with the number needed to detect 1 case of significant fibrosis (F2 or higher) being 12.5 (130). It is possible that thresholds to identify those who warrant screening are lower in patients with repeated episodes of binge drinking and those with comorbidities (131), although more data are needed. Although there are no data on the frequency of repeating screening tests, it may be reasonable to screen annually among those identified as having low risk for advanced fibrosis but who continue to use alcohol. MANAGEMENT OF ALD Patients with ALD are suffering from 2 disorders, one of liver disease and the other of even reverse liver damage is prolonged alcohol abstinence (132,133). Increasing evidence is demonstrating that integrated care with a hepatologist and an addiction specialist is more effective than the absence of one (132,133) (Figure 2). AUD treatment in patients with ALD cirrhosis and AH associates with improvement in patient survival, decompensating events, and complications of cirrhosis, as well as reduced 30-day readmissions (101,134-136). However, it should be noted that receiving treatment for AUD, even in advanced ALD, is the exception rather than the rule. In a retrospective cohort study of more than 35,000 veterans with cirrhosis and AUD, receipt of AUD treatment in a cohort of these patients was associated with reduction in decompensation and improved patient survival within 6 months of treatment (101). Only 14% of veterans with ALD, however, received any AUD treatment, with <1% receiving pharmacotherapy. In a
