HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, author manuscript, manuscript, ald, use, cirrhosis, liver, alcohol use, manuscript author, study, mortality, risk, disease


when considering LT for patients with ALD. Nutrition Every patient with ALD requires assessment of nutritional status because malnutrition is frequently present in these patients (147). Detailed clinical evaluation using the subjective global assessment tool is commonly used to assess the nutritional status (147). Nutritional goals for patients with cirrhosis from ALD are similar to those for all patients with cirrhosis with repletion of vitamin and mineral deficiencies (thiamine, vitamin B12, and zinc) common in AUD if alcohol use is recent or ongoing (148). This is covered in detail in a subsequent section under the management of AH. Vaccinations Individuals with chronic liver disease should have vaccination against hepatitis A virus, HBV, influenza, pneumococcus, herpes zoster, tetanus, diphtheria, pertussis, and SARS- CoV-2 (149). LT Individuals with decompensated alcohol-associated cirrhosis or severe AH should be considered for referral for LT (1,150). AH Among patients with suspected heavy alcohol use and new onset or worsening jaundice, clinicians should have a high suspicion for AH given its high short-term mortality. The spare severely ill patients the risk of liver biopsy. However, when the diagnosis is uncertain and 1 or more of the criteria are not met, a liver biopsy should be considered (Figure 3). Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Clinical features of AH include nonspecific constitutional symptoms and symptoms attributable to advanced ALD. Although evidence of hepatic decompensation is not required to make the diagnosis of AH, physical examination signs may overlap with ALD cirrhosis reflecting the presence of portal hypertension and its complications. Furthermore, the inflammation and steatosis of AH may promote de novo onset of portal hypertension in patients with minimal pre-existing liver disease and those with previously compensated cirrhosis. Signs of AWS may be present if cessation of drinking is recent (151). A careful search should be made for a source of potential infection or sepsis, including skin examination for signs of cellulitis and infection around venous lines. The systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS 1”) (presence of 2 or more of temperature >38 or <36 degree Celsius, heart rate >90 bpm, respiratory rate >20 or PCO2 <32 mm Hg, and white cell count >12 × 109/L) may be present even in the absence of infection (152) and is associated with a nearly 3-fold risk of mortality (153). In addition, the presence of SIRS predicted the development
