HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, author manuscript, manuscript, ald, use, cirrhosis, liver, alcohol use, manuscript author, study, mortality, risk, disease


prognostication of AH. Although the Alcoholic Hepatitis Histologic Score, determined by presence and degree of bilirubinostasis, absence of megamitochondria, and degree of polymorphonuclear infiltration on biopsy (Figure 4), did reveal higher scores associated with higher 90-day mortality (174), the Alcoholic Hepatitis Histologic Score performed no better than GAHS and MELD scores in predicting 28-day mortality in the STOPAH cohort (175). Previous studies showed that the combination use of MELD at baseline and the Lille score at day 7 have best discrimination and calibration for 2-month and 6-month mortality (176). Patients with AH may present with ACLF as defined by various diagnostic criteria for ACLF, however, given the multitude of proposed scoring systems (177-180), lack of uniform definition across continents, and few studies limited to patients with AH, further work is needed to determine the optimal score for predicting mortality in AH patients with ACLF. Infections are a common occurrence at presentation and during hospitalization in patients with AH. For example, in a prospective study of 1,092 patients with AH, 135 (12.4%) had an infection at baseline; of the remaining 957 patients, 251 (26.2%) developed infections during corticosteroid or pentoxifylline (PTX) treatment and 89 (9.3%) developed an infection after the treatment (181). In this study, prednisolone was associated with higher likelihood of infections after treatment but not during treatment and development of infection in those on steroids was associated with 2.46-fold higher 90-day mortality (181). However, in a meta-analysis of 12 other studies of 1,068 individuals with AH, the overall infection rate was 20% with no differences seen in those who received corticosteroids or not, Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript although a higher risk specifically for fungal infections was found in steroid-treated patients (182). Another multicenter retrospective cohort study of patients with AH found that 49% had evidence of infection and the diagnosis of infection was an independent risk factor for 90-day mortality (HR 2.33, 95% CI 1.63–3.35, P < 0.001). In this study, however, initiation of empiric antibiotics on admission in the absence of infection did not reduce mortality or alter the incidence of subsequent infections. Corticosteroid use increased the incidence of infection, but this did not affect survival (183). Studies on the use of prophylactic antibiotics in patients with AH have not shown promise for mortality benefit. In a placebo-controlled trial, rifaximin use for 90
