HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, author manuscript, manuscript, ald, use, cirrhosis, liver, alcohol use, manuscript author, study, mortality, risk, disease


days of prednisolone or placebo showed only a trend for mortality benefit (13.8% vs 18%, P = 0.056) and an overall lower frequency of mortality in this cohort than previous studies (160), likely reflecting improved management of advanced liver disease. Finally, an updated meta-analysis of more contemporary randomized studies (including the STOPAH study) showed that corticosteroids were effective in reducing short-term mortality by 36% (211). Given the variable severity of individuals presenting with AH, corticosteroids may be more effectively used if targeted to those most likely to respond, with early cessation of steroid therapy in those unlikely to response. A recent worldwide retrospective multicenter cohort of individuals with severe AH demonstrated that the 28-day corticosteroid survival benefit is seen in those with MELD scores ranging from 21 to 39, with limited benefit in the 40–50 range and no benefit with MELD scores above 50 (74). The Lille score at day 4 of corticosteroid therapy has been shown to be as accurate as day 7 Lille score in predicting the outcome and response to treatment (212) and has since been validated (213). Predicting which individuals will have a spontaneous recovery without steroid use is of great interest given the side effect profile. In a recent study of 426 patients with AH, the trajectory of serum bilirubin over the course of admission was categorized into “fast fallers,” “static,” and “rapid risers.” Fast fallers (those with a bilirubin <0.8 × admission value at day 7) had superior 90-day survival. In these individuals, use of corticosteroids showed no benefit (214). Prednisolone has been more extensively studied and is generally used over prednisone. Prednisolone and prednisone are dosed 40 mg per day for a total duration of 4 weeks (Figure 3). IV methylprednisolone (32 mg per day) is an alternative for those unable to take medications orally. There is no evidence supporting the benefits of rapid vs slow tapering after the 4-week therapy. Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Active infection including untreated HBV infection, uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, gastrointestinal bleeding, and severe renal failure is considered contraindications to the use of corticosteroids (215). However, corticosteroids can be started after adequate control or reversal of infection, renal failure, and gastrointestinal bleeding. For example, use of corticosteroids after adequate control of infection has been reported to provide benefit (216). Development of infections remains a
