HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, alcohol, author, author manuscript, manuscript, ald, use, cirrhosis, liver, alcohol use, manuscript author, study, mortality, risk, disease


Associations between tariffs on alcohol and rates of hospitalizations for AH and LT for ALD suggest that public health benefits can be achieved by excise taxing of alcohol (278). The effect of cold climate and limited daylight hours on escalated alcohol drinking have been reported (279) and may help to inform geotemporal alcohol policy efforts. Education is an important supplement to public policies noted above but may be less effective in the absence of policy interventions. Examples of education include youth-focused education in school, after-school programs, and parental Am J Gastroenterol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript education. Population-based screening tools and algorithms may also be effective to identify AUD and diagnose ALD at a population level. CONCLUSIONS AND PROSPECTS Healthcare burdens from AUD and ALD are significant in the United States and worldwide and are increasing in recent years. Providers in all clinical areas must be prepared to care for this growing population of patients. Patients with ALD often present at an advanced stage are rarely offered AUD treatment and have few effective therapies aimed at their liver disease. With continued and increasing interest of researchers and funding organizations especially the NIAAA, there seems light at the end of the tunnel with a promising future to fill the knowledge gap in several unmet clinical needs in the field of ALD (Table 6). Policy aimed at alcohol use reduction, multidisciplinary care of the dual diagnoses of AUD and ALD, and refinement of LT algorithms for patients with severe AH are areas where research should be focused. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This guideline document was developed in collaboration with the practice guideline committee of the American literature search and Theresa Johnson (both of Mayo Clinic) for administrative assistant support. Financial Support: Development grant, NIH R21 AA023273 (A.S.) and NIAAA 1U01AA021908-01 (R.B.).
