Functional Gastrointestinal Disturbances
KEYWORDS: patient, functional, symptoms, gastrointestinal, patients, diagnosis, treatment, disease, functional gastrointestinal, disorders, drugs, physician, disturbances, organic, helpful


Functional Gastrointestinal Disturbances Recognition and Treatment DWIGHT L. WILBUR, M.D., San Francisco Too OFTEN the diagnosis of functional gastrointes- * Therecognition offunctional gastrointestinal tinal disturbances is made on the basis of exclusion diseases depends essentiallyon certain positive when evidence of organic disease is lacking. How- features characteristic of them. When thereare ever, the diagnosis should be made on the basis of evidences of associated functional disturbances positive evidence, of symptoms characteristic of in other organ systems or in the patient as a tic offunctional disturbances as are those of organic present, andthere islackofsymptomatic orob- disease when the cause is organic change (Table 1). jective evidence of organic disease on careful The diagnosis of a functional gastrointestinal dis- examination, the diagnosis of functional gastro- turbance should be suspected from the history given intestinaldisorder is likely. by the patient and confirmed by suitable physical Treatment of functional gastrointestinal dis- examination and laboratory and roentgenologic turbances rests fundamentally on the art of studies. The diagnosis of these conditions is par- medicine in the freatment of the patient and not on the science of medicine in the treatment ticularly difficult for physicians who clingto the old of a disease. The essential steps in successful ideas concerning the origin of the symptoms previ- treatment include convinci'ng the patient of the ously discussed. diagnosis, improving and relieving symptoms It has been said that if the physician will sit and and avoiding or adequately controlling recur- listen, almost every patient will give enough infor- rences. mation to permit the correct diagnosis to be made Psychotherapy is a keystone in the treatment or at least suspected. Good listening is particularly of functional gastrointestinal disorders. Not tionalproblems. Symptomsaresoughtwhich suggest necessary. Given, as needed, mild sedatives, familiar complexes and syndromes. As the story certain forms of specific treatment in specific progresses questions are asked to complete a recog- conditions, general measures and good hygiene nized pattern of either functional or organic disease. andsympathetic understanding, thepatientmay Certain positive features strongly suggest a func- be expected to recover or improve. tional disturbance. These include symptoms that are characteristic and typical-for example, globus, aerophagia or functional vomiting. These features patient with other symptoms of an emotional dis- may be readily recognized in some cases, in others turbance should make one suspect the possibility of difficult to elicit. Other positive features include a functional gastrointestinal disorder. Among such long continuance of symptoms without significant
