Functional Gastrointestinal Disturbances
KEYWORDS: patient, functional, symptoms, gastrointestinal, patients, diagnosis, treatment, disease, functional gastrointestinal, disorders, drugs, physician, disturbances, organic, helpful


cases, in others turbance should make one suspect the possibility of difficult to elicit. Other positive features include a functional gastrointestinal disorder. Among such long continuance of symptoms without significant associated symptoms are chronic fatigue and ner- to the pattern of any recognizable organic disease; time," having headache, insomnia, "light-headed- a bizarre timing of symptoms, such as the regular ness," numbness in the fingers and toes, difficulty occurrence at six-weekly intervals, the close rela- in getting a deep breath, tremor and cardiovascular tionship of them to external stress and emotional symptoms, including blushing, tachycardia, palpi- disturbances; constancy of symptoms (particularly tation and cold, sweaty hands and feet. over a period of years); disappearance of symp- It is always valuable to note whether the patient toms during the night; the presence of pain with has had a normal emotional reaction to the symp- radiation in bizarre fashion to areas without estab- lishednervous system relationships; andthepresence of burning pain, particularly when it is constant. TABLE 1.- Points In recognition of functional gastrointestinal Associated Evidence of a Functional Disorder. disorders. The occurrence of gastrointestinal symptoms in a 1. Positive features 2. Otherevidences of functional disorders. Partof a Symposium of Disorders of theIntestinal Tract. Presented 3. Various typical syndromes. before the Section on General Practice at the 84th Annual Session of the California Medical Association, San Francisco, May 1-4, 1955. 4. Lack of evidence of organic disease on examination. VOL. 83. NO. 5 * NOVEMBER 1955 343 toms. Either undue concern or an unusually apathe- TABLE 2.-Functional gastrointestinal disorders-Treatment. tic attitude toward the complaint should suggest to ArtofMedicinevs.ScienceofMedicine. the physician that he may be dealing with a func- tional problem. Three stepsto successfultreatment: 1. Convincethe patientofthe diagnosis. Various Typical Syndromes. A third significant (a) Accurate diagnosis. diagnostic feature is the presence of a clinical (b) Adequateexplanationtothepatient. syndrome typical of a functional disturbance, such 2. Improving or relievingsymptoms. (a) Psychotherapy. as globus, aerophagia, cardiospasm, functional vom- (b) Diet. iting and hysterical bloating. However a functional (c) Drugs. (d) General measures. disturbance may be present without causing such a (e) Psychiatric treatment. typical syndrome. (f) Specific measures. Lack of Evidence of Organic Disease on Exam- 3. Preventing relapse. ination. The final point in diagnosis is the lack of evidence, on examination, of organic disease or of adequate training in the basic medical sciences are a disease that could produce the patient's symptoms. frequently highly successful in
