Functional Gastrointestinal Disturbances
KEYWORDS: patient, functional, symptoms, gastrointestinal, patients, diagnosis, treatment, disease, functional gastrointestinal, disorders, drugs, physician, disturbances, organic, helpful


lack of evidence, on examination, of organic disease or of adequate training in the basic medical sciences are a disease that could produce the patient's symptoms. frequently highly successful in the management of Physical examination must be thorough and com- patients with functional gastrointestinal disturb- plete. It frequently will reveal other evidences of ances. Too often the physician or surgeon skillfully functional disturbances. In addition to routine urin- trained in the science of disease approaches the alysis and blood count, radiologic and laboratory patientfromthestandpoint ofa disease or disturbed studies should becarried outto the extentdemanded organ function and fails to visualize the disturbance by the judgment of the physician. It generally is in function of the patient as a whole. He does not wise to include studies of the organ which seems recognize the "functional disturbanice" presented by affected symptomatically or about which the patient the patient and therefore is not successful in han- expresses concern or doubt. For success in diagnosis dling him orhe lacks interest in doing so and passes him off as a "neurotic." must be satisfied that the studies have been complete Wide experience makes it quite clear that to be and thorough. successful in management of a patient with a func- It seems appropriate at this point to indicate the great importance ofrectalandsigmoidoscopic exam- tional gastrointestinal complaint the physician must like the task just as a good surgeon must like to ination, for these examinations all too frequently are overlooked orforgotten. Itshould beemphasized operate and a good obstetrician like to care for and deliver a pregnant woman. that occasionally examination of the stool for para- As was previously mentioned, there are more sites and ova may give very useful information. hopeful avenues of approach to the management of Accuracy of Diagnosis. The diagnosis of func- "functional disorders" than is the case with most tional gastrointestinal disorders when made follow- ing adequate clinical evaluation is surprisingly who treats such patients is to establish the diag- accurate. Wilbur and Mills,4 for example, some time nosis, to reach the root of the difficulty and to work ago carefully reexamined 354 patients who had a out an effective plan of treatment in the time he record of a previous diagnosis of functional gastro- can afford to devote to a single patient. Sometimes intestinal disturbance. The reexaminations were this may be very simple, as in the case of a patient done
