Functional Gastrointestinal Disturbances
KEYWORDS: patient, functional, symptoms, gastrointestinal, patients, diagnosis, treatment, disease, functional gastrointestinal, disorders, drugs, physician, disturbances, organic, helpful


of functional gastro- can afford to devote to a single patient. Sometimes intestinal disturbance. The reexaminations were this may be very simple, as in the case of a patient done at least seven years after the diagnosis was with anxiety over rectal bleeding which the patient made and the original diagnosis was reaffirmed in suspects may be due to cancer of the rectum. But 85 per cent of cases. The organic conditions most commonly the problem is not so simple and at times commonly found at the second examination which it may be very difficult. may have been missed and have led to symptoms at The physician who is treating a patient for func. the time of the original examination were duodenal tional disorder must develop a plan tailored to fit ulcer andgallbladder disease. the individual problem (Table 2). Three steps are essential. The first is a well thought out way to TREATMENT convince the patient of the diagnosis; second, a The management of a patient with a functional carefully considered program of specific therapy gastrointestinal complaint is largely an art. In other directed toward the patient, his conflict and his words, it calls principally on the art of medicine in symptoms; and, finally, an attempt to show the the treatment of a patient and not on the science of patient how to remain largely symptom-free and to medicine in the treatment of a disease. For this prevent relapses once improvement has occurred. prayer or practice of religion and cultists without says it by his estimation of the patient's intelligence, 344 CALIFORNIA MEDICINE education, character, past experience and degree of Owing to an innate desire to know about them- sexual, psychological and philosophical maturity as selves, most patients are helped by a free discussion wellas bythecharacteristics oftheconflict situation. of just what is wrong with them. Convincing the patient of the diagnosis requires Diet. So variable are the needs that it is difficult two steps. The first is an accurate diagnosis and the to generalize about the dietetic management of second an adequate and satisfactory explanation of patients with functional gastrointestinal disturb- the situation to the patient. Rare, nowadays, is the ances. In general, however, a smooth diet, adequate patient who is satisfied with the statement, "There in proteins, vitamins and calories and with as little is nothing the matter with you; it is 'just nervous restriction in variety as possible,
