Functional Gastrointestinal Disturbances
KEYWORDS: patient, functional, symptoms, gastrointestinal, patients, diagnosis, treatment, disease, functional gastrointestinal, disorders, drugs, physician, disturbances, organic, helpful


is satisfied with the statement, "There in proteins, vitamins and calories and with as little is nothing the matter with you; it is 'just nervous restriction in variety as possible, best meets the indigestion.' " Especially in functional disorders average situation. An increase or decrease in cal- the patient must be convinced of the diagnosis if ories depending on the need for a gain or loss in treatmentisto be successful. Thephysician certainly weight may bring about success in some patients. must let it be known that he does not look upon the For patients with little appetite, or for hospitalized symptoms asimaginary. Atthesametime thepatient patients, feedings as far apart as possible (at least must be convinced thatthe symptoms are the body's "normal" response to prolonged anxiety or tension five hours) usually are helpful. The need for re- and not indicative of a severe or incurable disease. duction in roughage or an increase in it when It should be relatively easy to show a patient how diarrhea or constipation occurs is obvious. Patients stress and tension may result in gastrointestinal should be encouraged to eat slowly and not to eat symptoms. Almost everyone has had some form of when tense or under too much stress. At times omis- gastrointestinal symptoms under stress or with an sion of coffee, alcohol or tobacco may be very help- emotional upset. The patient must be told that a ful. Finally, for patients who require much dietary certain amount of tension or stress is a normal part consideration the services of a skillful and sensible of every day life and that each person has a limit dietitian are invaluable in working out the details oftolerance for tension or stress and that when that of a program. limit is exceeded, symptoms occur. Every effort Drugs. Sedatives are the most useful drugs in the should be made to preserve the self respect of the treatment of functional gastrointestinal disturb- patient and the feeling that he is respected in the antes. They are not curative but, like a crutch, are eyes of members of his family and close friends. exceedingly usefulingettingthepatientoveracrisis, When the patient asks questions about the condi- in helping him to regain his feeling of well-being question andthe answers mustbe consistent. to be eased or free of symptoms. Small doses of Above allthepatientmustbe givenhope, for hope barbiturates and the occasional intermittent use of is the one thing
