Functional Gastrointestinal Disturbances
KEYWORDS: patient, functional, symptoms, gastrointestinal, patients, diagnosis, treatment, disease, functional gastrointestinal, disorders, drugs, physician, disturbances, organic, helpful


andthe answers mustbe consistent. to be eased or free of symptoms. Small doses of Above allthepatientmustbe givenhope, for hope barbiturates and the occasional intermittent use of is the one thing all of us want when we are in chloral hydrate or bromide, prescribed at times in trouble. a form new to the patient, and used during the day and to obtain sleep at night, may change the whole IMPROVING OR RELIEVING SYMPTOMS outlook of a nervous patient with gastrointestinal Psychotherapy is the keystone in treatment di- symptoms. It is wise to limit the amount of drugs rected toward relieving symptoms. As "specific and the period over which they are to be used. In therapy" it may be simple or it may require the the author's experience not many patients, except services of a psychiatrist. Fortunately in most in- the severely psychoneurotic, become psychologically stances the general physician can successfully deal dependent on barbiturates. As physicians feel no with such a patient. Whitehorn well expressed the grave concern over the way the average "normal" situation: "Psychotherapy will consist largely in person drugs himself daily with caffeine, nicotine, the thoughtful and respectful consideration with the alcohol and often acetylsalycilic acid, the occasional patient of how the situation might be met more addition of barbiturates to this daily ration should effectively, notby an idealperson, but bythe person cause no serious misgivings. who is the patient, using to the best advantage the Next to sedatives, antispasmodics in the form of assets and attitudes which he has shown in periods belladonna anditsalkaloidsandofthemanyrecently ofgood adjustment. The whole art of psychotherapy developed synthetic anticholinergic agents are the depends largely on learning howto exertthis special most useful drugs in therapy of functional disturb- personal influence strategically to the patient's best ance. Curiously, a particular anticholinergic drug advantage in finding a better way to meet a life may work exceedingly well in one patient when that the patient will tell the physician anything and verse may be true. Because belladonna and atropine look upon him as a knowing, sympathetic person, is are so commonly satisfactory and so much less ex- extremely helpful. pensive, they should be used first. VOL. 83, NO. 5 * NOVEMBER 1955 345 Chlorpromazine, which acts as a mild depressant properly evaluate the nature of response of patients to the central nervous system, may be very helpful with functional gastrointestinal disorders. in controlling functional nausea and
