Functional Gastrointestinal Disturbances
KEYWORDS: patient, functional, symptoms, gastrointestinal, patients, diagnosis, treatment, disease, functional gastrointestinal, disorders, drugs, physician, disturbances, organic, helpful


as a mild depressant properly evaluate the nature of response of patients to the central nervous system, may be very helpful with functional gastrointestinal disorders. in controlling functional nausea and vomiting and General Measures. Rest and exercise, extroverting in augmenting the effects of other drugs in the activities, the development of suitable outlets and management of abdominal discomfort and pain. hobbies and the taking of vacations may be most Antacids, vitamins and dilute hydrochloric acid helpful in the long-time planning of treatment of properly used may be helpful. In some cases smooth chronic functional gastrointestinal disturbances. bulk substances are helpful in the control of consti- SpecificMeasures of Treatment. There are certain pation and occasionally in diarrhea; and a variety specific measures of treatment useful in specific ofsymptomaticmeasuresforthecontrol of diarrhea, types of functional gastrointestinal disease. These such as administration of kaolin, bismuth, pectin include dilatation of the esophagus for spasm, a and even small doses of opiates, may be extremely dry diet in functional vomiting and aerophagia, useful in handling an acute situation or bringing a voluntary control of belching in aerophagia, manual chronic one more satisfactorily under control. The dilatation of the tight anus in cases of constipation proper control of chronic constipation alone is one and irritable colon, and the use of smooth bulk of the most helpful means of relieving functional substances and abdominal exercises in constipation. gastrointestinal disturbances. An elimination diet may be extremely helpful in Vitamins, particularly of the vitamin B complex, patients who suspect they are allergic or who insist frequently are very helpful in patients who have that certain foods cause distress, but trial of a lim- been on limited diets; in others they have a useful ited diet should be restricted to short periods. tonic or psychologic effect. Psychiatric Treatment. General physicians can Any discussion of drugs in treatment of patients properly treat most patients with functional gastro- intestinal disorders. Occasionally in the case of a with functional gastrointestinal disturbances should include a consideration of the placebo response so patient who has severe chronic psychoneurosis or who has psychotic symptoms such as those of de- well emphasized by Wolf. Improvement that follows administration of a particular drug or group of pression, or who reflects a notable absence of emo- drugs may be wholly psychic although the good tional concern about his condition, or is hysterical effect may be attributed by both physician and
