Functional Gastrointestinal Disturbances
KEYWORDS: patient, functional, symptoms, gastrointestinal, patients, diagnosis, treatment, disease, functional gastrointestinal, disorders, drugs, physician, disturbances, organic, helpful


reflects a notable absence of emo- drugs may be wholly psychic although the good tional concern about his condition, or is hysterical effect may be attributed by both physician and or has conflicts which involve deep guilt or serious patient to the pharmacologic effect. disturbance of one of the basic emotional drives, a competent psychiatrist should take over the case. Recent observations of Beecher and his associates have further advanced understanding of the phe- patient along at a superficial level until he is willing nomenon of the placebo response. In study of 162 to see a psychiatrist. postoperative patients observed for ability to obtain significant relief of pain from subcutaneous injec- PREVENTION OF RECURRENCE tions of morphine and placebos, these observers found a considerable number of patients who re- Successful management of patients with func- sponded with relief of pain following injections of tional gastrointestinal disorders does not end with placebos. Fewer than half the patients who received control of the presenting situation. Many patients multiple doses of placebos responded consistently to have recurrent bouts of tension, anxiety and gastro. them. There were no sex differences and no differ- intestinal symptoms. Such a patient should be told ences in intelligence between placebo reactors and to expect symptoms whenever tolerance for tension nonreactors. In general placebo reactors in stressful is exceeded. Hemay avoid a situation that will result postoperative situations behaved in immature, de- in anxiety and tension. Through treatment he may pendent and more outwardly responsive fashion and develop insight into his symptoms and build up "thus receive considerable relief of pain through stress tolerance to the maximum. He may be taught comfort received from attentive nursing care and to avoid long and needless worry about new and from confidence in the effectiveness of drugs," while persisting symptoms and he may also learn simple the nonreactor, "withdrawn and rigidly clinging to dietary andtherapeutic measures forhandling recur- critical intellectual processes, is less comforted by rence of symptoms. Since his problem is a medical the care received and evidently more critical of drug one, he should not hesitate to seek the advice of his effects." Placebo reactors were more productive of physician at regular intervals or when he gets into response, more anxious, more self centered and pre- difficulties that he cannot himself resolve. occupied with internal bodily processes and more emotionally labile. PROGNOSIS Much more study and observation must be car-
