Functional Gastrointestinal Disturbances
KEYWORDS: patient, functional, symptoms, gastrointestinal, patients, diagnosis, treatment, disease, functional gastrointestinal, disorders, drugs, physician, disturbances, organic, helpful


anxious, more self centered and pre- difficulties that he cannot himself resolve. occupied with internal bodily processes and more emotionally labile. PROGNOSIS Much more study and observation must be car- The prognosis of patients with functional gastro- ried out in this important field before clinicians can intestinal disturbances varies greatly and may be 346 CALIFORNIA MEDICINE very difficult to estimate. In general the prognosis ADDENDUM for patients with simple anxiety and tension and After careful consideration of this whole problem fatigue states is good, particularly when anxiety can one cannot but agree in part at least with Josh Bil- lings, who said, "I have finally kum tu the kon- be relieved and fatiguing work restricted and rest klusion that a good reliable sett ov bowels iz wurth prolonged. Young persons with emotional and en- more tu a man than enny quantity ov brains." vironmental problems that can be solved often improve remarkably and recover completely. For 655 SutterStreet, SanFrancisco 2. patients with pronounced chronic emotional dis- REFERENCES 1. Lasagna, L., Mosteller, F., vonFelsinger, J. M., and turbances or prolonged economic or environmental Beecher, H. K.: A study of the placebo response, Am. J. conflicts that cannot be altered or to which they Med., 16:770, June 1954. cannot become accustomed, and for patients with 2. Watts, M. S. M., andWilbur, D. L.: Treatment of func- tional disorders, J.A.M.A., 152:1192, July 25, 1953. psychotic disturbances, the outlook is often not too 3. Whitehorn, J. C.: Psychotherapy in general medical good; yet the patient often can be improved, and practice, JohnsHopkins Hosp.Bull.,82:10,1948. even a little improvement may be enough to make 4. Wilbur, D. L., and Mills, J. H.: How accurate is the diagnosis of functional indigestion? A study of 354 cases, life worth living again. Ann. Int. Med., 12:821, Dec. 1938. 00A2f VOL. 83. NO. 5 * NOVEMBER 1955 347
