Weakness
KEYWORDS: weakness, muscle, motor, disorders, testing, cause, spinal, patients, cord, neuron, findings, motor neuron, spinal cord, syndrome, dysfunction


Weakness is one of the most common reasons patients present to primary care clinicians. Weakness is loss of muscle strength, although many patients also use the term when they feel generally fatigued or have functional limitations (eg, due to pain or limited joint motion) even though muscle strength is normal. Weakness may affect a few or many muscles and develop suddenly or gradually. Other symptoms may be present depending on the cause. Weakness of specific muscle groups can cause disorders of eye movement, dysarthria, dysphagia, or respiratory compromise. Pathophysiology of Weakness Voluntary movement is initiated in the cerebral motor cortex, at the posterior aspect of the frontal lobe. The neurons involved (upper motor or corticospinal tract neurons) synapse with neurons in the spinal cord (lower motor neurons). Lower motor neurons transmit impulses to the neuromuscular junction to initiate muscle contraction. Common mechanisms of weakness thus include dysfunction of: Upper motor neurons (corticospinal and corticobulbar tract lesions) Lower motor neurons (eg, due to peripheral polyneuropathies or anterior horn cell lesions) Neuromuscular junction Muscle (eg, due to myopathies) The location of certain lesions correlates with physical findings: Upper motor neuron dysfunction disinhibits lower motor neurons, resulting in increased muscle tone (spasticity) and increased muscle stretch reflexes (hyperreflexia). An extensor plantar (Babinski) reflex is specific for corticospinal tract dysfunction. However, upper motor neuron dysfunction can decrease tone and reflexes if motor paralysis is sudden and severe (eg, in spinal cord transection, in which tone first decreases, then increases gradually over days to weeks) or if the lesion damages the motor cortex of the precentral gyrus and not nearby motor association areas. The distribution of weakness tends to follow upper motor neuron distribution, primarily affecting the extensors of the upper extremities and flexors of the lower extremities. Lower motor neuron dysfunction disrupts reflex arcs, causing hyporeflexia and decreased muscle tone (flaccidity), and may cause fasciculations; with time, muscles atrophy. Peripheral polyneuropathies tend to primarily affect the longest nerves (ie, weakness is more prominent in the distal than the proximal limb and is more prominent in legs than arms) and produce signs of lower motor neuron dysfunction (eg, decreased reflexes and muscle tone). The most common disorder of the neuromuscular junction—myasthenia gravis— typically causes fluctuating weakness that worsens with activity and lessens with rest. Diffuse muscle dysfunction (eg, in myopathies) tends to be most noticeable in the largest muscle groups (proximal muscles). Etiology of Weakness
