Weakness
KEYWORDS: weakness, muscle, motor, disorders, testing, cause, spinal, patients, cord, neuron, findings, motor neuron, spinal cord, syndrome, dysfunction


ganglioside monosialic acid; anti-MAG = antimyelin-associated glycoprotein; CIDP = chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy; CK = creatine kinase; CSF = cerebral spinal fluid; EBV = Epstein-Barr virus; HTLV = human T-lymphotropic virus; MOG = myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein, NMO-IgG = neuromyelitis optica antibody; RPR = rapid plasma reagin; TSH = thyroid-stimulating hormone; VDRL = Venereal Disease Research Laboratory. Fatigue Many patients report weakness when their problem is fatigue. Fatigue can prevent maximal effort and muscle performance during strength testing. Common causes of fatigue include acute severe illness of almost any cause, cancers, chronic infections (eg, HIV infection, hepatitis, endocarditis, mononucleosis), endocrine disorders, renal failure, hepatic failure, heart failure, and anemia. Multiple sclerosis can cause daily fatigue that increases with exposure to heat and humidity. Patients with fibromyalgia, depression, or myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome may report weakness or fatigue but have no defined objective abnormalities. Evaluation of Weakness Evaluation of weakness should try to distinguish true muscular weakness from fatigue, then check for findings that help establish the location or mechanism (eg, whether weakness is caused by dysfunction of the brain, spinal cord, plexuses, peripheral nerves, neuromuscular junction, or muscles) and, when possible, the cause. History History of present illness should begin with open-ended questions, asking patients to describe in detail what they are experiencing as weakness. Then, specific questions can be asked, particularly about the ability to do specific tasks, including brushing teeth or hair, speaking, swallowing, rising from a chair, climbing stairs, and walking. Clinicians should also ask about the onset of weakness (sudden or gradual), whether it varies throughout the day (diurnal variation as occurs in myasthenia gravis) and progression (eg, constant, worsening, intermittent) of symptoms. Close questioning is needed to differentiate sudden onset from sudden recognition; patients may suddenly recognize symptoms only after slowly progressive weakness crosses a threshold that prevents them from doing some normally routine task (eg, walking, tying shoes). Important associated symptoms include sensory changes, double vision, memory loss, difficulty using language, seizures, and headaches. Factors that worsen weakness, such as heat (suggesting multiple sclerosis) or repetitive use of a muscle (suggesting myasthenia gravis), are noted. Review of systems should seek symptoms suggesting possible causes, including the following: Daily fatigue and weakness that increases with heat and humidity: Multiple sclerosis Diurnal variation of fatigue and weakness: Myasthenia gravis Rash: Dermatomyositis, Lyme disease, or syphilis Fevers: Chronic infection Muscle pain: Myositis Neck pain: Cervical myelopathy Vomiting or
