Weakness
KEYWORDS: weakness, muscle, motor, disorders, testing, cause, spinal, patients, cord, neuron, findings, motor neuron, spinal cord, syndrome, dysfunction


saying "ta-ta-ta") and slurring of speech (lingual dysarthria). Mild asymmetry during tongue protrusion may be normal. Tongue fasciculations may be seen in patients with advanced amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Sternocleidomastoid and trapezius strength is tested by having the patient rotate the head and shrug the shoulders against resistance. The patient is asked to blink repeatedly to see whether blinking fatigues. Motor examination includes inspection, assessment of tone, and strength testing. The body is inspected for kyphoscoliosis (sometimes suggesting chronic weakness of paraspinal muscles) and for surgical and traumatic scars. Dystonic posturing (eg, torticollis) may interfere with movement, mimicking weakness. Muscles are inspected for fasciculations and atrophy; both may begin focally or asymmetrically in patients with ALS. Diffuse atrophy may be most evident in the hands, face, and 9/19 shoulder girdle. If myasthenia gravis is suspected, patients are asked to look up for a prolonged period (minutes), noting if the eyelids start to droop. Muscle tone is assessed using passive motion. Tapping a muscle (eg, hypothenar) may induce fasciculations in neuropathies or a myotonic contraction in myotonic dystrophy. Strength testing should include muscles that are proximal, distal, extensor, and flexor. Some tests of large, proximal muscles include standing from a sitting position; squatting and rising; and flexing, extending, and turning the head against resistance. Motor strength is often rated on a 0 to 5 scale: 0: No visible muscle contraction 1: Visible muscle contraction with no limb movement 2: Limb movement but not against gravity 3: Movement against gravity but not resistance 4: Weakness against resistance 5: Full strength Although these numbers seem objective, rating strength between 3 and 5 (the typical levels during early weakness, when diagnosis usually occurs) is rather subjective; if symptoms are unilateral, comparison with the unaffected side improves discrimination. Describing specifically what the patient can or cannot do is often more useful than simply assigning a number for level of weakness, particularly for assessing changes in weakness over time. A cognitive deficit may cause motor impersistence (inability to focus attention on completing a motor task), motor perseveration, apraxia, or incomplete effort. Malingering and other functional weakness is often characterized by give-way weakness, in which normal strength of effort suddenly gives way. Coordination testing includes finger-to-nose and heel-to-shin maneuvers and toe-heel tandem gait to check for cerebellar dysfunction, which can accompany cerebellar stroke, vermian atrophy (eg, due to alcohol use disorder), some hereditary spinocerebellar ataxias, multiple sclerosis,
