Weakness
KEYWORDS: weakness, muscle, motor, disorders, testing, cause, spinal, patients, cord, neuron, findings, motor neuron, spinal cord, syndrome, dysfunction


heel-to-shin maneuvers and toe-heel tandem gait to check for cerebellar dysfunction, which can accompany cerebellar stroke, vermian atrophy (eg, due to alcohol use disorder), some hereditary spinocerebellar ataxias, multiple sclerosis, and the Miller Fisher variant of Guillain-Barré syndrome. Gait is observed for the following: Ignition failure (temporary freezing in place when starting to walk, followed by involuntary speeding up of gait [festination]): Parkinson disease Apraxia, as when feet stick to the floor: Normal pressure hydrocephalus or other frontal lobe disorders Festination: Parkinson disease Limb asymmetry, as when patients drag a leg, have reduced arm swing, or both: Hemispheric stroke Ataxia: Midline cerebellar disease Instability during turns: Parkinsonism 10/19 Walking on the toes and heels is tested; distal muscle weakness makes these maneuvers difficult. Walking on the heels is particularly difficult when corticospinal tract lesions are the cause of weakness. Spastic gait is notable for scissoring (legs flexed slightly at the hips and knees, giving the appearance of crouching, with the knees and thighs hitting or crossing in a scissors-like movement) and walking on the toes. A steppage gait (also referred to as marching gait: foot lifted high to avoid scraping toe) and foot drop may occur with peroneal nerve palsy. Sensation is tested; sensory deficits can help localize some lesions causing weakness (eg, sensory level localizes the lesion to a spinal cord segment) or suggest certain specific causes of weakness (eg, distal sensory loss helps confirm clinical suspicion of Guillain-Barré syndrome). A truncal bandlike tingling and pressure in a dermatomal distribution is a spinal cord sign that occurs with both intrinsic (within the spinal cord, such as with multiple sclerosis) and extrinsic lesions. Extrinsic lesions may arise from a tumor, blood, abscess, or a sequestrated vertebral disk. Reflexes are tested. If deep tendon reflexes appear absent, they may be elicited by augmentation with the Jendrassik maneuver (eg, asking the patient to try to pull the hands apart while they are clasped together). Hyporeflexia may be normal throughout life or occur with aging, but findings should be symmetric and augmentation should elicit reflexes that are otherwise absent. The plantar (Babinski) reflex is tested. The following responses suggest certain disorders or locations of lesions: The classic Babinski reflex (the great toe extends and the other toes fan apart) is highly specific for a corticospinal tract lesion (except in infants, where the reflex is physiologic because the corticospinal tract is immature). A normal
