Weakness
KEYWORDS: weakness, muscle, motor, disorders, testing, cause, spinal, patients, cord, neuron, findings, motor neuron, spinal cord, syndrome, dysfunction


and the other toes fan apart) is highly specific for a corticospinal tract lesion (except in infants, where the reflex is physiologic because the corticospinal tract is immature). A normal jaw jerk and hyperreflexic arms and legs suggest a cervical lesion affecting the corticospinal tract, usually cervical stenosis. Anal tone, anal wink reflex, or both are reduced or absent in spinal cord injury but are preserved in ascending paralysis due to Guillain-Barré syndrome. Abdominal reflexes are absent below the level of spinal cord injury (except in ALS where they are inexplicably preserved). A cremasteric reflex can test the integrity of the upper lumbar cord and roots in males. Evaluation also includes: Testing for back tenderness to percussion (present with vertebral inflammation, some vertebral tumors, and epidural abscess) Straight leg raising (painful with sciatica) Testing for scapular winging (suggesting weakness of the shoulder girdle muscles) General examination If patients have no objective motor weakness, the general examination is particularly important; in such patients, nonneuromuscular disorders should be sought. Signs of respiratory distress (eg, tachypnea, weak inspiration) are noted. The skin is examined for jaundice, pallor, rash, and striae. Other important findings during inspection include the moon facies of 11/19 Cushing syndrome and the parotid enlargement, smooth hairless skin, ascites, and vascular spiders of chronic alcohol use. The neck, axillae, and inguinal area should be palpated for adenopathy; any thyromegaly is noted. Heart and lungs are auscultated for crackles, wheezes, prolonged expiration, heart murmurs, and gallop rhythms. The abdomen is palpated for masses, including a grossly enlarged bladder if spinal cord dysfunction is possible. Joint range of motion is assessed. If tick paralysis is suspected, the skin, particularly the scalp, should be thoroughly inspected for ticks. Red flags In patients with weakness, the following findings are of particular concern: Weakness that becomes severe over a few days or less Dyspnea Inability to raise the head against gravity Bulbar symptoms (eg, difficulty chewing, talking, and swallowing) Loss of ambulation Urinary retention or incontinence, or fecal incontinence Interpretation of findings The history helps differentiate weakness from fatigue, defines the time course of the illness, and gives clues to the anatomic pattern of weakness. Weakness and fatigue tend to cause different symptoms: Weakness: Patients typically complain that they cannot do specific tasks. They may also report limb heaviness or stiffness. Weakness usually has a particular pattern in time, anatomy, or both. Difficulty working overhead, combing
