Weakness
KEYWORDS: weakness, muscle, motor, disorders, testing, cause, spinal, patients, cord, neuron, findings, motor neuron, spinal cord, syndrome, dysfunction


complain that they cannot do specific tasks. They may also report limb heaviness or stiffness. Weakness usually has a particular pattern in time, anatomy, or both. Difficulty working overhead, combing or brushing hair, ascending stairs, or getting off a toilet seat all imply proximal muscle weakness. Fatigue: Fatigue reported as weakness tends to have no temporal pattern (eg, “tired all of the time”) or anatomic pattern (eg, “weak everywhere”); complaints center more on being tired than on being unable to do specific tasks. The temporal pattern of symptoms is useful. Weakness that becomes severe within minutes or less is usually caused by severe trauma or stroke; in stroke, weakness is usually unilateral and can be mild or severe. Sudden weakness, numbness, and severe pain localized to a limb are more likely caused by local arterial occlusion and limb ischemia, which can be differentiated by vascular assessment (eg, pulse, color, temperature, capillary refill, differences in Doppler-measured limb blood pressures). Spinal cord compression can also cause paralysis that evolves over minutes (but 12/19 usually over hours or days) and is readily distinguished by incontinence and clinical findings of a discrete cord sensory and motor level. Weakness that progresses steadily over hours to days may be caused by acute or subacute disorders (eg, spinal cord compression, transverse myelitis, spinal cord ischemia or hemorrhage, Guillain-Barré syndrome, sometimes muscle wasting caused by a critical illness, rhabdomyolysis, botulism, organophosphate poisoning). Weakness that progresses over weeks to months may be caused by subacute or chronic disorders (eg, cervical myelopathy, most inherited and acquired polyneuropathies, myasthenia gravis, motor neuron disorders, acquired myopathies, most tumors). Weakness that fluctuates from day to day may be caused by multiple sclerosis and sometimes metabolic myopathies. Weakness that fluctuates over the course of a day may be caused by myasthenia gravis, Eaton-Lambert syndrome, or periodic paralysis. The anatomic pattern of weakness is characterized by difficulty performing specific motor tasks. Anatomic patterns suggest certain diagnoses: Proximal muscle weakness impairs reaching upward (eg, combing hair, lifting objects over the head), ascending stairs, or getting up from a sitting position; this pattern is typical of inflammatory myopathies. Distal muscle weakness impairs tasks such as stepping over a curb, holding a cup, writing, buttoning, or using a key; this pattern is typical of polyneuropathies and myotonic dystrophy. Many disorders (eg, chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, Guillain-Barré syndrome, myasthenia gravis, radiculopathies, Eaton-Lambert syndrome) cause both proximal and distal weakness,
