Weakness
KEYWORDS: weakness, muscle, motor, disorders, testing, cause, spinal, patients, cord, neuron, findings, motor neuron, spinal cord, syndrome, dysfunction


use can also cause chronically moderately elevated CK levels (mean value, 400 IU/L). Clinicians can use MRI to identify muscle inflammation, as occurs in inflammatory myopathies. Muscle biopsy may be necessary ultimately to diagnose myopathy or myositis. MRI or electromyography can help find a suitable site for muscle biopsy. However, needlestick artifact can mimic muscle pathology and must be avoided; thus, biopsy should never be done in the same muscle tested by electromyography. Genetic testing can help confirm certain hereditary myopathies. If motor neuron disorders (eg, ALS) are suspected, tests include electromyography and nerve conduction studies to confirm the diagnosis and exclude treatable disorders that mimic motor neuron disorders (eg, chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, multifocal motor neuropathy with conduction block). Brain MRI may show degeneration of the corticospinal tracts when ALS is advanced. Spinal cord MRI (or CT myelography) is done routinely to exclude spinal cord compression or other myelopathies (see table Some Causes of Muscle Weakness). Testing for specific disorders may be needed: If findings suggest myasthenia gravis, an ice pack test and serologic testing (eg, acetylcholine receptor antibody levels, sometimes anti–muscle-specific tyrosine kinase antibodies) If findings suggest vasculitis, autoantibody testing If family history suggests a hereditary disorder, genetic testing If findings suggest polyneuropathy, other tests (see table Some Causes of Muscle Weakness) If myopathy is unexplained by drugs, metabolic, or endocrine disorders, possibly muscle biopsy 17/19 Treatment of Weakness Causes of muscle weakness are treated. For patients with life-threatening, acute weakness, ventilatory support may be needed. Physical and occupational therapy can help people adapt to permanent weakness and minimize loss of function, regardless of the cause. Geriatrics Essentials: Weakness Some decrease in deep tendon reflexes is common with aging, but asymmetry or absence of these reflexes with augmentation is abnormal. Because older adults are more likely to have preexisting sarcopenia, bed rest can cause debilitating muscle wasting rapidly, sometimes after only several days. Older adults take more medications and are more susceptible to drug-induced myopathies, neuropathies, and fatigue; thus, medications are a common cause of weakness in older adults. Feeling too weak to walk often has multiple causes. Factors may include the following: Muscle weakness (eg, caused by stroke, use of certain substances or medications, myelopathy due to cervical spondylosis, or muscle atrophy) Hydrocephalus Parkinsonism Painful arthritis Age-related loss of neural networks mediating postural stability (vestibular system, proprioceptive pathways), coordination (cerebellum, basal ganglia), vision, and praxis (frontal lobe)
