Case Report and Case Series
KEYWORDS: infection, intermedius, patient, infections, ttv, intracranial, treatment, case, virus, mngs, mixed, diagnosis, rare, torque teno, torque


by S. intermedius have been docu- maximum body temperature of 38.5(cid:1)C. mented.3 However, cases of S. intermedius Head computed tomography (CT) showed infection leading to central nervous system a softening lesion in the right frontal lobe, (CNS) infections are rare.4 S. intermedius with localized bone defects in the right demonstrates strong neurotropism and can frontal sinus (Figure 1). The patient was cause intracranial infections such as paren- admitted with a diagnosis of intracranial chymalbrainabscesses,subduralempyema, space-occupying lesion. and epidural empyema, which are associat- Uponpresentationatourhospital,phys- ed with high morbidity and mortality. ical examination revealed a body tempera- Currently,S.intermediusisincreasinglyrec- ture of 37.5(cid:1)C, heart rate of 89 beats/min, ognized as a significant pathogen causing respiration rate of 21breaths/min, blood intracranial infections, characterized by rapiddiseaseprogressionandcomplexclin- icalmanagement.4Torquetenovirus(TTV) isasingle-strandedDNAvirus,firstdiscov- ered and identified in 19975 and officially named by the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses in 2009.6 Its genome sizeisapproximately3800bp,7anditisgen- erallyconsideredahumancommensalvirus in humans.5–7 Due to the rarity of co- infection with S. intermedius and TTV, this intracranial mixed infection is exceed- ingly rare. Herein, we report a unique case of intracranial infection caused by two pathogens—S. intermedius and TTV— Figure 1. Headcomputedtomography(onJune which were simultaneously detected in the 262024) showinga softeninglesionin theright cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). frontallobe, asindicated bytheredarrow. Zhou and Zhang 3 pressure of 134/82mmHg, Glasgow Coma treatment from the patient’s family, empiri- Scale (GCS) score of 14, pupils equal and cal antimicrobial therapy was initiated with reactive to light with a diameter of approxi- vancomycin (1g intravenous drip (ivgtt) mately 3.5mm, normal superficial and deep q12h) and meropenem (2g ivgtt q8h). sensation, limb muscle strength of 4/5, Despite treatment, the patient’s fever per- normalmuscletone,physiologicalreflexespre- sisted. On 30 June 2024, he developed sent, and no pathological reflexes. Meningeal coma on the fifth day after admission, with irritation signs were weaklypositive. the GCS score dropping to 8. Burr hole drainage was performed, and yellow-white, Medical history rice soup-like purulent CSF was drained, which was sent for culture and analysis. Thepatientunderwentcraniotomy10years ago for the treatment of head trauma and After the surgery, due to the lack of was hospitalized 1 year ago for viral improvement in consciousness, persistent encephalitis, which improved with treat- high fever, and respiratory distress, the ment. No other significant medical history patient was transferred to the intensive care was reported. unit (ICU). In the ICU, the drainage fluid was subjected to metagenomic next- Diagnosis and treatment after admission generation sequencing (mNGS)and culture. The patient’s glycated
