Case Report and Case Series
KEYWORDS: infection, intermedius, patient, infections, ttv, intracranial, treatment, case, virus, mngs, mixed, diagnosis, rare, torque teno, torque


dysfunction challenging. The CSF of this patient was and high mortality. Common pathogens subjected to mNGS. To minimize the risk include bacteria, viruses, fungi, and para- of contamination, strict quality control and diagnosis relies on neuroimaging, CSF the entire mNGS workflow, including the analysis, and microbiological testing. use of both negative and positive controls, According to epidemiological studies con- physical separation of pre- and post- ducted in Europe, the annual incidence of amplification areas, and background sub- bacterial infections of the CNS in adults is traction during bioinformatics analysis. estimatedtorangefrom0.7to3.2casesper No reads corresponding to the target 100,000population.8Theseinfectionsprog- pathogens were detected in the negative ress rapidly and can lead to severe neuro- control samples, supporting the authentici- logicaldamageorevendeath,withaglobal ty of the findings. mNGS of the CSF fatality rate of approximately 8.8%. The revealed the presence of S. intermedius mortality rate of mixed infections is signif- with a total genome size of 1,932,951bp, icantly higher than that of single pathogen of which 1,626,272bp were covered, corre- infections, rangingfrom30%to50%.9For spondingtoacoveragerateof84.13%.For the treatment of CNS infectious diseases, TTV, the genome size was 3847bp, with precise microbiological diagnosis and early 1016bp covered, yielding a coverage rate combination antimicrobial therapy play a of 26.41%. These results support the likeli- crucial role in improving patient outcomes. hood of co-infection with both the Zhou and Zhang 5 pathogens. However, due to the family’s symptom onset. The patient’s history refusal to authorize an autopsy, we were of dental pain, combined with mNGS unable to obtain pathological confirmation results and microbial culture of the of viral presence in the brain tissue, which drainage fluid, suggested that the infec- remains a limitation of this case report. tion likely originated from a dental Although TTV is commonly detected in source, spreading directly to the intra- various bodily fluids of healthy individu- cranial area. Infection persisted immunosuppression11 and may be useful blood culture results indicated S. inter- in the prediction of organ transplant rejec- medius infection, which led to septic tion and infection risks.12,13 Studies have shock. Despite aggressive antimicrobial revealed that TTV infection can cause bio- and supportive therapy, the disease was chemical and histological changes in the difficult to control, and the patient ulti- liver tissue and bile duct epithelial cells,14 mately died due to septic shock. This indirectly suggesting its potential pathoge- suggests that combined infection with nicity.15In2021,Liuetal.reportedthecase S. intermedius and TTV may cause of a patient with X-linked agammaglobu-
