Case Report and Case Series
KEYWORDS: infection, intermedius, patient, infections, ttv, intracranial, treatment, case, virus, mngs, mixed, diagnosis, rare, torque teno, torque


mately died due to septic shock. This indirectly suggesting its potential pathoge- suggests that combined infection with nicity.15In2021,Liuetal.reportedthecase S. intermedius and TTV may cause of a patient with X-linked agammaglobu- enhanced pathogenicity; owing to the linemia who tested positive for TTV in the patient’s weakened immune function, CSF; after excluding other pathogens, it the inflammatory response elicited by was concluded that TTV caused encephali- the infection was more severe, resulting tis, indicating that this virus exerts patho- inmultipleorganfailureandpoortreat- genic effects in patients with severe ment outcomes. immunodeficiency and induces severe clini- cal symptoms.16 mNGS can detect the S. intermedius is highly virulent, and nucleic acid sequences of multiple patho- TTV may have pathogenic potential. gens and plays an important role in the Cases of CNS infections caused by the diagnosis of infectious diseases. Initially, simultaneous invasion of these two patho- this case lacked effective microbiological gens are rare. When diagnosing and treat- evidence, making precise treatment chal- ing intracranial mixed infections, mNGS lenging. However, mNGS subsequently plays a critical role in reducing the mortal- detected S. intermedius and TTV. ity rate of CNS infectious diseases. With continuous advancements in diagnostic 2. Complex underlying conditions: The and treatment technologies, improved clin- patient’s medical history was complicat- ical data, and increased reporting of rare ago and had viral encephalitis 1 year diagnosisandtreatmentforCNSinfectious ago,bothofwhichmayhavecausedintra- diseaseswillcontinuetoimprove,leadingto cranialtissuedamageandimmunesystem a significant decrease in mortality rates alterations, increasing the risk of re- among patients with these conditions. infection. Diabetic patients have impaired Cases of CNS infection with simulta- innate and adaptive immune functions, neous detection of S. intermedius and TTV significantly increasing susceptibility to are relatively rare. Upon detection of these infections. The infection can breach local two pathogens, the optimal treatment strat- defense barriers, leading to septicemia egy should be to prioritize effective antimi- through hematogenous dissemination. crobial therapy while also addressing the 3. Rapiddiseaseprogression:Thepatient’s potential impact of viral co-infection. condition rapidly deteriorated since S. intermedius, known for its high virulence 6 Journal of International Medical Research in intracranial infections, should be treated Zhang conducted data analysis and interpreta- with antibiotics to which the isolate is tion. Huiru Zhou and Liqin Zhang drafted the susceptible. First-line options include initialmanuscript.LiqinZhangcriticallyrevised penicillin-class agents and third-generation the manuscript for important intellectual con- cephalosporins; in cases of b-lactam resis- tent. All authors have read and approved the tance, vancomycin may be considered. In finalversionofthe manuscript. contrast, TTV is a nonenveloped,
