Case Report and Case Series
KEYWORDS: infection, intermedius, patient, infections, ttv, intracranial, treatment, case, virus, mngs, mixed, diagnosis, rare, torque teno, torque


important intellectual con- cephalosporins; in cases of b-lactam resis- tent. All authors have read and approved the tance, vancomycin may be considered. In finalversionofthe manuscript. contrast, TTV is a nonenveloped, single- stranded DNA virus for which no specific Data availability statement antiviral therapy is currently available. The datathat support the findings of this study Although TTV is often considered a com- areavailablethecorrespondingauthoruponrea- mensal virus, it may become reactivated sonablerequest. under immunosuppressive conditions and is associated with worsened clinical outcomes Declaration of conflicting interests in co-infected individuals. Therefore, rather The authors declare no potential conflicts of than direct antiviral treatment, the manage- interestwithrespecttotheresearch,authorship, ment of TTV co-infection should focus on andpublicationofthis article. comprehensive evaluation and modulation of the host immune status. Immunological Ethics approval statements support and adjustment of immunosuppres- Ethical approval for this case report was sivetherapies,ifapplicable,mayhelpmitigate obtained from the Medical Ethics Committee the impact of TTV and improve the overall of Gansu Provincial Hospital (approval no. prognosis. In summary, the most effective 2024-789)on27August2024.Toprotectpatient treatment strategy should be based on ade- privacy, all personal identifiers have been quate antimicrobial therapy, combined with removedfromthecasereport;therefore,patient individualized immunological support and consentfor publicationwasnotrequired. necessarysurgicalinterventiontoensureopti- The reporting of this study adheres to the mal clinical outcomes for patients. CaseReport (CARE) guidelines.17 This case suggests that co-infection with Funding S.intermediusandTTVleadstosevereCNS lanceiswarrantedforsuchmixedinfections, Lanzhou City Science and Technology Plan particularly in patients with intracranial Project (grant no. 2023-2-100) and Gansu infections of unknown etiology. Although ProvincialHospitalResearchFund(24GSSYB-9). ORCID iD the underlying mechanisms and causal rela- tionships require further investigation. Huiru Zhou 3565-6972 Acknowledgements The authors are grateful to Gansu Provincial References study. AI-assisted language editing (ChatGPT) normal flora to brain abscesses: a review of was used to enhance the manuscript’s clarity. Streptococcus intermedius. Front Microbiol Allfinaldecisionsweremadebytheauthors. 2020;11: 826–838. 2. Nedrebø T and Skrede S. Necrotizing soft Author contributions tissueinfections: case reports, fromthe clini- HuiruZhoudesignedthestudy,collectedclinical cian’sperspectives.In:BruunT,MadsenMB, data,andperformedtheliteraturereview. Liqin Oppegaard O (eds) Necrotizing Soft Tissue Zhou and Zhang 7 Cham:Springer,2020,pp.21–37. TrypanoGEN Research Group, et al. 3. Ishihara Y, Kaneshiro S and Ikehara Y. Unmapped exome reads implicate a role GiantliverabscesswithStreptococcusinter- for Anelloviridae in childhood HIV-1 long- medius bacteremia treated without any term non-progression. NPJ Genom Med drainage. IDCases2023;31:e01662. 2021;6:24. 4. Gil E, Hatcher J, Saram S, et al. 12. Van Rijn AL, Wunderink HF, Sidorov IA, Streptococcus intermedius: an underesti- et al. Torque teno virus loads after kidney mated pathogen in brain infection? Future transplantation predict allograft rejection Microbiol 2025;20:163–177. but
