Surgical Endoscopy (2024) 38:499–510
KEYWORDS: panel, biliary, soc, evidence, article, patients, ercp, recommendations, guideline, cholangioscopy, diagnostic, reviews, systematic, data, use


in the diagnosis of indeterminate management . Like difficult biliary stones, the diagno- biliary stenosis and the treatment of difficult-to-manage bil- sis of the etiology of biliary strictures, which is crucial for iary stones in the Colombian context. This guideline is not the determination of the prognosis of the patients, through intended to be constructed as a standard of care but rather as sensitivity (35 to 70%), providing a real challenge for their on evidence and in the context of the performance of each practitioner [3–5]. clinician and patient. Single-operator cholangioscopy (SOC) is a visualization and interventional system used for the diagnostic and thera- Methods peutic management of indeterminate strictures and large stones of the biliary system when ERCP is unsuccessful or considered inappropriate . Unlike other techniques, The guideline panel developed and graded the recommenda- SOC is designed to visualize and facilitate access to the tions and assessed the certainty of the evidence following the bile ducts during diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, GRADE framework . The Colombian Association increasing diagnostic sensitivity and specificity up to that of Digestive Endoscopy (ACED from the Spanish initials can 50–100% and 87–100%, respectively [4–7]. The Inter- for Asociación Colombiana de Endoscopia Digestiva) com- national Hepato-Pancreato-Biliary Association consensus missioned to Universidad de los Andes and the Colombia stated that direct peroral cholangioscopy provides the largest GRADE Network the general development of the guideline, accessory channel, better image definition, and is technically which was derived from the Guidelines International Net- more demanding than conventional methods . Although work–McMaster Guideline Development Checklist (http:// percutaneous transhepatic cholangioscopy is not new since cebgra de.m cmast er.c a/g uidec heck.h tml). The Universidad it was described in 1974 , new percutaneous cholangios- de los Andes and the Colombian GRADE Network assisted copy devices like Spyglass Discover allows even further ver- in the process of developing the guideline by choosing the satility to the SOC for the management of intrahepatic stones GRADE methodology, creating meeting agendas and materi- and evaluation of the more proximal strictures of the biliary als, and moderating panel discussions. tree . Even though there are no controlled studies Organization, panel composition, planning, there are multiple case reports supporting the advantages of and coordination this new approach that requires a multidisciplinary integra- tion between radiology and endoscopy groups . Another very interesting application of this new device is its The panel consisted of 14 gastroenterology specialists, of
