Surgical Endoscopy (2024) 38:499–510
KEYWORDS: panel, biliary, soc, evidence, article, patients, ercp, recommendations, guideline, cholangioscopy, diagnostic, reviews, systematic, data, use


that requires a multidisciplinary integra- tion between radiology and endoscopy groups . Another very interesting application of this new device is its The panel consisted of 14 gastroenterology specialists, of usefulness as intraoperative cholangioscopy, which in some whom 8 had a background in internal medicine and the cases allows simultaneous management of cholelithiasis and remaining 6 were trained as surgeons. On average, they choledocholithiasis . had 17.14 (SD ± 6.09) years of experience in conducting 1 3 Surgical Endoscopy (2024) 38:499–510 501 endoscopy, and 12 of the panelists had an average of abstained from voting to define the recommendations of this 16.83 years (SD ± 6.04) of expertise in performing ERCP guideline. and cholangioscopy procedures. A content expert served The researchers associated with Universidad de los Andes as the panel's chair (AMRR). A methodologist with spe- and the Colombia GRADE Network in charge of carry- cific knowledge in developing guidelines participated as ing out the systematic literature reviews received a salary vice chair (JJYN). Conflicts of interest of all participants according to the agreement between ACED and Universidad were managed based on recommendations of the Institute de los Andes. None of the researchers associated with Uni- of Medicine (IOM) and the Guidelines International versidad de los Andes and the Colombia GRADE Network Network (GIN) . declared commercial or financial conflicts of interest associ- ated with developing this guideline. Guideline funding and management of conflicts There was no participation of any group of patients or of interest entities external to those already mentioned. Formulating specific clinical questions The non-profit organization ACED, which represents gastro- and determining outcomes of interest enterologists, provided the funding for creating these recom- mendations. The guidelines panel included members of the ACED. Staff from ACED helped arrange meetings and sup- The panel used the GRADEpro Guideline Development ported panel selections, but they had not input on selecting Tool (www.g radep ro.o rg) and Microsoft Office 365 Forms the recommendations or the guideline questions. To manage to prioritize the clinical questions. Two main questions the conflict of interest of all the participants of this CPG, of interest regarding SOC as a diagnostic tool and its poten- the declaration of conflict of interest of the World Health tial use as a therapeutic instrument were established. We Organization (WHO) experts was used; this was distributed conducted a similar process for the outcome prioritization and compiled using the GRADEpro tool (www.g
