Surgical Endoscopy (2024) 38:499–510
KEYWORDS: panel, biliary, soc, evidence, article, patients, ercp, recommendations, guideline, cholangioscopy, diagnostic, reviews, systematic, data, use


as a therapeutic instrument were established. We Organization (WHO) experts was used; this was distributed conducted a similar process for the outcome prioritization and compiled using the GRADEpro tool (www.g radep ro. of each question. A consensus definition of each one of the org). Only one of the ACED expert panelists reported a con- outcomes was made, prioritizing three critical outcomes flict of interest due to their business relationship with one per question (score > 7 points in the GRADE methodology) of the manufacturers of the cholangioscopy equipment. The (Table 1). Only adult patients (older than 18 years) rest of the panel manifested not having conflicts of inter- with biliary strictures of undetermined etiology and difficult est. We reported a detailed explanation of the expert panel, biliary stones were considered for diagnosis and treatment the reviewer team, and the conflict-of-interest declaration questions, respectively. Special interest was placed in those for each panel member in Supplementary materials 1 and who had undergone SOC with a characterization of the pat- 2. Panel members did not receive additional fees for par- tern of stricture and biopsy; the latter accompanied by ERCP ticipating in this guideline. The panelist who declared hav- with brushing and/or biopsy for the case of indeterminate ing a conflict of interest participated in all the deliberation biliary strictures, or by ERCP with large-balloon papillary meetings on outcomes and recommendations; however, he dilation for the case of difficult-to-extract stones. Table 1 Outcomes prioritized by the panel of experts for decision-making Prioritized outcome Score (mean) Definition Diagnosis question Procedure success rate 8.66 Ability to obtain selective access to the bile duct in one single procedure A procedure that achieves adequate brushing and biopsy in one intervention is considered successful Diagnostic sensitivity of single-operator cholangioscopy- 8.21 Sensitivity guided biopsy Diagnostic specificity of single-operator cholangioscopy- 7.71 Specificity guided biopsy Treatment question Time for single-operator cholangioscopy-guided therapeutic 7.42 Time of the procedure development in minutes maneuvers Number of successful therapeutic procedures 8.14 The procedure that achieves the total extraction of the bile duct stone in a single intervention is considered successful Incidence of adverse events 7.78 Overall incidence of adverse events 1 3 5 02 Surgical Endoscopy (2024) 38:499–510 Evidence reviews and development from very low to high [28–30]. We plan to submit systematic of recommendations reviews of benefits and harms and test accuracy for future publication. This report follows an outline proposed to report
