Surgical Endoscopy (2024) 38:499–510
KEYWORDS: panel, biliary, soc, evidence, article, patients, ercp, recommendations, guideline, cholangioscopy, diagnostic, reviews, systematic, data, use


low to high [28–30]. We plan to submit systematic of recommendations reviews of benefits and harms and test accuracy for future publication. This report follows an outline proposed to report Using the GRADEpro Guideline Development Tool, the trustworthy guidelines . Universidad de los Andes and the Colombia GRADE Net- The panel developed recommendations over two online work team created a GRADE EtD table for each guideline meetings using the evidence presented in the EtD tables. question . The findings of systematic reviews of The panel took a population perspective and agreed on the the literature that were updated or carried out, especially for following for each recommendation: the certainty of the these recommendations, were presented in the EtD table. evidence, the healthcare-related desirable and undesirable The EtD table addressed the potential benefits and harms effects of the compared diagnostic strategy options or inter- of the interventions or the diagnostic test, test accuracy, ventions, and the assumptions about the values and prefer- resource utilization (cost-effectiveness), values and pref- ences related to the decision. The panel also agreed on the erences (relative importance of outcomes), equity, accept- resource utilization associated with each question's alterna- ability, and feasibility. Before, during, or after the guideline tive diagnostic options or interventions. Using the GRADE panel meeting, the draft EtD tables were examined by the approach, the panel reached a consensus on the direction guideline panel, making suggestions on the adaptability and strength of recommendations through group discus- and relevance of the evidence presented to the Colombian sions and deliberations . This consensus was reached context. through three online voting sessions, with a quorum of 70% The Universidad de los Andes and the Colombia GRADE attendance from all members with voting rights during these Network team conducted new systematic reviews of diag- sessions. The decisions were made based on balancing all nostic tests and intervention strategies following general desirable and undesirable consequences . Each procedures provided in the Cochrane Handbook for Sys- judgment based on the EtD criteria, and the ultimate recom- tematic Reviews ( raini ng.c ochra ne.o rg/h andbo ok). mendation underwent a voting process, with a requirement In addition, the reviewer team performed systematic reviews for a 70% threshold in each vote. The conclusive votes for of reviews searching for information about baseline risks each evaluated criterion are detailed in the EtD additional (estimation of disease prevalence), values and preferences, considerations section of
