Surgical Endoscopy (2024) 38:499–510
KEYWORDS: panel, biliary, soc, evidence, article, patients, ercp, recommendations, guideline, cholangioscopy, diagnostic, reviews, systematic, data, use


conclusive votes for of reviews searching for information about baseline risks each evaluated criterion are detailed in the EtD additional (estimation of disease prevalence), values and preferences, considerations section of each question. The final guideline equity, acceptability, feasibility, and cost for the Colombian report was reviewed and approved by all panel members. context. We conducted a literature search in two databases: Compliance to AGREE II reporting standards for clinical Medline (via Ovid) and Embase. The search was performed practice guidelines was evaluated for this guideline (Sup- up to February 09, 2022, focusing on literature published plementary material 4). in English without any other restrictions. (Supplementary Interpretation of strong and conditional material 3). recommendations Using the CADIMA tool ( ww.c adima.i nfo/i ndex. php) the articles were screened by title and abstract, then full text and, finally, data extraction from the screened articles. The recommendations are labeled as either “strong” or “con- Panel members also stayed on the lookout for additional ditional” according to the GRADE approach. The words “the suitable studies so they could submit them to the panel for guideline panel recommends” are used for strong recommen- possible inclusion. The risk of bias assessment for diagnos- dations and “the guideline panel suggests” for conditional tic accuracy studies was performed using the QUADAS-2 recommendations. Table 2 provides the interpretation of tool . For the intervention studies that met the inclusion strong and conditional recommendations by patients, clini- criteria, we assessed the risk of bias using the Cochrane cians, and healthcare policymakers. Risk of Bias Assessment Tool version 1.0 . In the case How to use this guideline of observational studies, we used Risk of Bias In Non-ran- domized Studies—of Interventions (ROBINS-I) tool . We performed statistical analyses of diagnostic test accuracy The aim of the ACED guideline is to help clinicians make studies using MetaDisc 2.0 and conducted the meta- decisions about diagnostic and treatment alternatives. Other nalysis for the intervention studies with Review Manager objectives include determining future research needs and 5.4 . For each of the prioritized outcomes, the evaluation informing advocacy, instruction, and policy. Patients may of the certainty in the evidence was carried out following also use them. These recommendations are not meant to the GRADE methodology on the following domains: risk represent or be taken as a standard of care. Clinicians must effects, directness of the evidence, and risk of publication through a collaborative approach
