Surgical Endoscopy (2024) 38:499–510
KEYWORDS: panel, biliary, soc, evidence, article, patients, ercp, recommendations, guideline, cholangioscopy, diagnostic, reviews, systematic, data, use


not limited to and/or biopsy be used for the diagnosis of biliary strictures institutional policies, time constraints, and treatment availabil- of undetermined etiology in adult patients? ity, may place restrictions on decisions. These recommenda- tions may not cover all appropriate treatments for the stated Recommendation 1 clinical contexts. Recommendations may become outdated as research develops and more data becomes available. Fol- For adult patients with primary biliary strictures of undeter- lowing these recommendations won't guarantee success. No mined etiology, the panel suggests the use of single-operator products mentioned in these recommendations are warranted cholangioscopy (SOC) with the characterization of the stric- or guaranteed by ACED. Its components, which aid in more ture pattern and biopsy over endoscopic retrograde cholan- accurate interpretation, include statements of the underlying giography (ERCP) (conditional recommendation for SOC values and preferences and qualifying remarks associated with based on moderate certainty in the evidence of diagnostic each recommendation. They should always be included when accuracy studies ⊕⊕⊕◯, and low certainty in the evidence these suggestions are quoted or translated. of effects on clinical outcomes ⊕⊕◯◯). Results Summary of evidence The key points are presented here; however, the Supplement We included two relevant primary studies with 143 patients material provides a comprehensive summary of findings and (including 178 specimens) to inform estimates or test accu- the detailed EtD framework is shown online, refer to the link racy . Furthermore, we identified two systematic specified in each question description. Table 3 shows a sum- reviews that included the two primary studies identified [33, mary of the study population. 34]. The EtD framework is shown online at: uide lines.g radep ro.o rg/p rofil e/L 4UnXK g8Fjk. Diagnosis of biliary strictures of undetermined etiology in adult patients Benefits, harms, and burden Should single-operator cholangioscopy (SOC) with stric- Moderate certainty evidence showed that SOC with a ture pattern characterization and biopsy vs. endoscopic characterization of the stenosis pattern and biopsies had 1 3 5 04 Surgical Endoscopy (2024) 38:499–510 1 3 seiduts dedulcni morf noitamrofni noitalupoP elbaT semoctuO nosirapmoC noitnevretnI yrtnuoC eht fo noitpircseD yduts fo epyT n raey ,ydutS noitalupop ygoloite denimretednu fo serutcirts yrailib fo sisongaiD ,yticfiiceps ,ytivitisneS -usiv PCRE dradnatS -azilausiv COSD -reG ,anihC ,aidnI -pmys htiw stneitaP lacinilc dezimodnaR -iceps 75( stneitap ]7[ )0202( ,segreG sseccus erudecorp eussit htiw noitazila gnilpmas dna noit ynam yrailib fo smot lairt )snem etar gnihsurb dediug-COSD rof ohw noitcurtsbo yspoib ega fo
