Surgical Endoscopy (2024) 38:499–510
KEYWORDS: panel, biliary, soc, evidence, article, patients, ercp, recommendations, guideline, cholangioscopy, diagnostic, reviews, systematic, data, use


a pooled prevalence, inter- 46%, an estimated 162 specimens per 1000 tested would preted as the pretest prevalence of malignancy, of 46% (95% have falsely normal findings with SOC, and 0 specimens CI: 40% to 52%). We did not found evidence of baseline risk per 1000 tested would have falsely abnormal findings with for Colombia or Latin-American population. a SOC. The panel felt that the desirable effect of the inter- vention is of high impact on subsequent management and Conclusions and research needs for this recommendation for consequences in the control and development of the disease. The panel discussed that postoperative cholangitis The guideline panel determined that there is moderate cer- is one of the potential harms of SOC; however, the risk is tainty in the test accuracy evidence for the use of SOC. not higher than that of ERCP, particularly in patients with Based on the available evidence, SOC is likely to improve cholelithiasis. The risk was considered similar between the diagnostic performance in patients with biliary strictures of two interventions. Other undesirable effects discussed by the undetermined etiology. The balance of desirable and unde- panel included bleeding or perforation, but they suggested sirable consequences favors the use of SOC over ERCP in that the risk remains like ERCP's. Low certainty of evidence adult patients with biliary strictures of undetermined etiol- shows no difference in the procedure success rate using SOC ogy. Specifically, the panel considered that most patients with the characterization of the stricture pattern and biop- would choose SOC due to its diagnostic accuracy. The use sies compared to ERCP with brushing and/or biopsy based of cholangioscopy for diagnosing biliary strictures of unde- on the RCT finding (RR: 1.17, 95% CI 0.90–1.52). The termined etiology is conditioned by the availability of this findings of the retrospective cohort study were consist- technology at healthcare centers. When not available, ERCP ent with the findings of the randomized trial for procedure may be an alternative diagnostic method. Likewise, the diag- success rate (OR: 1.08, 95% CI 0.11–10.78). (Refer to the nostic accuracy of the intervention may be influenced by the online EtD framework: uidel ines.g radep ro.o rg/p rofi patient's condition. Under certain circumstances, patients le/L 4UnXK g8Fjk). The panel considered that comparing the will likely undergo more than one cholangioscopy procedure two procedures in clinical practice for the procedure suc- and require special monitoring in terms of survival, compli-
