Surgical Endoscopy (2024) 38:499–510
KEYWORDS: panel, biliary, soc, evidence, article, patients, ercp, recommendations, guideline, cholangioscopy, diagnostic, reviews, systematic, data, use


considered that comparing the will likely undergo more than one cholangioscopy procedure two procedures in clinical practice for the procedure suc- and require special monitoring in terms of survival, compli- cess rate is difficult as their effectiveness may depend on the cations, type, and duration of intervention. The creation of a operator's experience and the clinical characteristics of each national database of centers specialized in cholangioscopy patient. The overall certainty in the evidence was moderate is a priority to allow the monitoring of patients, as well as for diagnostic accuracy studies owing to risk of bias, and carrying out economic evaluations of the intervention. The low owing to risk of bias and imprecision for the effects on EtD framework is shown online at: uidel ines.g rade clinical outcomes. pro.o rg/p rofil e/L 4UnXK g8Fjk). Other EtD Criteria and considerations Management of patients with difficult biliary stones We did not identify systematic reviews that assessed patients' values and preferences. Based on their expertise, the panel Should single-operator cholangioscopy (SOC) vs. endo- determined that there was no important uncertainty or vari- scopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) with ability in how much-affected individuals valued the criti- large-balloon papillary dilation be used for the management cal outcomes. No included systematic reviews or primary of adult patients with difficult biliary stones? studies reported either on equity, acceptability, or feasibil- ity. No systematic reviews reported on the cost-effectiveness of the reviewed interventions in Colombia. We found one Recommendation 2 study . that addressed an economic evaluation, without cost-effectiveness evidence, of the use of SOC compared For adult patients with difficult biliary stones, the panel to conventional ERCP from a Belgium hospital perspec- suggests the use of single-operator cholangioscopy (SOC) tive. This study favored the use of SOC over ERCP in the over endoscopic retrograde cholangiography (ERCP) with total cost analysis mainly due to lower diagnostic costs and large-balloon papilla dilation (conditional recommendation shorter hospital stay follow-up . The panel estimated the for SOC based on low certainty in the evidence of effects on 1 3 5 06 Surgical Endoscopy (2024) 38:499–510 Summary of evidence ERCP. They reflected that even if SOC as a single procedure may be more expensive than ERCP, a patient may receive We identified 3 randomized clinical trials [37–39] that met several ERCPs before receiving a SOC. our inclusion criteria. Additionally, we found 3 systematic reviews addressing this question but considering different Conclusions and
