Surgical Endoscopy (2024) 38:499–510
KEYWORDS: panel, biliary, soc, evidence, article, patients, ercp, recommendations, guideline, cholangioscopy, diagnostic, reviews, systematic, data, use


3 randomized clinical trials [37–39] that met several ERCPs before receiving a SOC. our inclusion criteria. Additionally, we found 3 systematic reviews addressing this question but considering different Conclusions and research needs for this recommendation populations . The primary studies identified by our search were included in these systematic reviews. The The guideline panel determined that although there is low EtD framework is shown online at: uidel ines.g rade certainty in the evidence to establish a net balance of health pro.o rg/p rofil e/p iL0zu qxntA benefit versus harm from the use of SOC, based on the body of evidence available, SOC is likely to improve the number of therapeutic maneuvers for complete difficult biliary stone Benefits, harms, and burden removal and decrease the incidence of adverse events. The balance of desirable and undesirable consequences favors Among critical outcomes, moderate certainty evidence the use of SOC versus ERCP with large-balloon papillary showed that SOC compared to ERCP with large-balloon pap- dilatation in patients with difficult biliary stones. The panel illary dilation may result in little to no differences in number considered that most patients would choose SOC due to the of successful therapeutic maneuvers for biliary stone removal therapeutic success of this technique and the number of suc- (RR 1.25, 95% CI: 0.95—1.63) , or procedure time cessful maneuvers. The panel identified the need for high- (SMD 0.46, -0.21 – 1.13) . Low certainty evidence quality economic evaluation studies in areas such as cost- showed that associated risk for adverse effects may not dif- effectiveness and use of resources required, generation of fer between SOC ERCP with large-balloon papillary dila- hospital indicators in the Colombian health system context tion (RR 0.88, 95% CI: 0.11—7.13) (Refer to the related to the implementation of SOC, as well as quality man- online EtD framework: https:// guide lines. grade pro. org/ profi agement of cholangioscopy procedures. The EtD framework le/ piL0z uqxntA). The overall certainty in the evidence for is shown online at: https:// guide lines. grade pro. org/ profi le/ effects was low owing to risk of bias and imprecision on piL0z uqxntA. critical outcomes. Discussion Other EtD criteria and considerations This guideline scope is distinctive because it covers all wide- We did not find systematic reviews that reported evidence spread SOC and ERCP-related issues. Every recommenda- the panel considered there was no important uncertainty or systematic reviews, which improves the judgments' trans-
