Surgical Endoscopy (2024) 38:499–510
KEYWORDS: panel, biliary, soc, evidence, article, patients, ercp, recommendations, guideline, cholangioscopy, diagnostic, reviews, systematic, data, use


not find systematic reviews that reported evidence spread SOC and ERCP-related issues. Every recommenda- the panel considered there was no important uncertainty or systematic reviews, which improves the judgments' trans- variability on the critical outcomes prioritized by the panel. parency. The National Institute for Health and Care Excel- No included systematic reviews or primary studies reported lence (NICE) in 2015 evaluated the SpyGlass system either on equity, acceptability, or feasibility. We did not for the diagnostic and therapeutic management of biliary identify systematic reviews or primary studies that reported system diseases, suggesting that SpyGlass should be used resource use or cost-effectiveness of the interventions in the when standard techniques are unsuccessful or inappropri- Colombian context. We found two primary studies ate. Unlike standard ERCP, SpyGlass is a single-operator that considered the use of resources and the cost of SOC system designed to visualize and facilitate access to the bile compared to ERCP with large-balloon papillary dilation ducts during diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. The in the management of difficult biliary stones in a Belgium SpyGlass system is intended for use in endoscopic units with hospital and an interventional endoscopy in the United the equipment and expert personnel to perform ERCP . States , respectively. None of them reported cost-effec- The International Hepato-Pancreato-Biliary Associa- tiveness data but reported cost analysis of each procedure. tion agreed on the clinical role of cholangioscopy in the The first study favors SOC over ERCP in the total cost diagnosis of indeterminate biliary stenosis. International analysis due to shorter hospital stay follow-up and reduced experts reviewed the evidence and made the statements number of reinterventions . For the US study, authors using a consensus method, defining that, when available, reported a higher cost associated with SOC compared to cholangioscopy evaluation and guided biopsy during the first ERCP; however, this difference ended up being unimportant round of ERCP can reduce the need for multiple procedures. compared with the total costs of the procedures . In the Additionally, the experts considered that direct peroral chol- Colombian context, and based on their experience, the panel angioscopy provides the largest accessory channel, better considered that the cost-effectiveness may favor SOC over image definition, and is technically more demanding than 1 3 Surgical Endoscopy (2024) 38:499–510 507 conventional methods. The panel concluded that cholangios- and the management of difficult biliary stones over the long copy is complementary to abdominal imaging and ERCP
