Surgical Endoscopy (2024) 38:499–510
KEYWORDS: panel, biliary, soc, evidence, article, patients, ercp, recommendations, guideline, cholangioscopy, diagnostic, reviews, systematic, data, use


Surgical Endoscopy (2024) 38:499–510 507 conventional methods. The panel concluded that cholangios- and the management of difficult biliary stones over the long copy is complementary to abdominal imaging and ERCP tis- term . sue acquisition in evaluating and diagnosing indeterminate In addition, the panel acknowledges that, for aspects such biliary strictures . as values and preferences, and other contextual factors, it The European Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy was not possible to obtain articles aligned with the objective (ESGE) guideline , endorses the use of SOC-assisted of this guideline, which led the experts to make decisions intraluminal lithotripsy as an effective and safe treatment based on their experience. This enriches the content related for challenging bile duct stones. Furthermore, the ESGE to the recommendations but could limit its value when mak- suggests that the choice of cholangioscopy and lithotripsy ing decisions from a population perspective. should be based on local availability and expertise. This As monitoring strategy this guideline will be updated by underscores the importance of locally focused guidelines, the ACED in 2 years or before if there is new of evidence or which tailor recommendations to the distinctive circum- updated recommendations from other guidelines that modify stances of each setting for improved outcomes. the strength and direction of these recommendations. Our CPG differs from the NICE , the International Hepato-Pancreato-Biliary Association reports , and the ESGE guideline in discussing the strength of the evi- Conclusion dence and in the inclusion of patients’ values and preferences for recommendations when an optimal treatment option is The scope of this CPG includes questions relevant to the diag- lacking. This empowers patients and their providers to make nosis of indeterminate biliary stricture and the treatment of values with the best evidence available nowadays. systematic reviews and provided a formal EtD framework for each recommendation, increasing the transparency of the assessments made. The findings of this guideline target Limitations of this CPG ing the extent to which they can be applied. While global evi- The limitations of these guidelines are inherent to the mod- dence supports regional application, it is crucial to assess the erate or low certainty in the evidence identified for the pri- implications within the diverse health systems of the region. oritized questions. The panel acknowledges that there is insufficient evidence related to SOC with stricture pattern Supplementary Information The online version contains supplemen- tary material available at oi.o rg/1 0.1
