Surgical Endoscopy (2024) 38:499–510
KEYWORDS: panel, biliary, soc, evidence, article, patients, ercp, recommendations, guideline, cholangioscopy, diagnostic, reviews, systematic, data, use


oritized questions. The panel acknowledges that there is insufficient evidence related to SOC with stricture pattern Supplementary Information The online version contains supplemen- tary material available at oi.o rg/1 0.1 007/s 00464-0 23-1 0569-x. characterization and biopsies versus ERCP with brushing and/or biopsy for the diagnosis of biliary stricture of unde- Author contributions AMRR: conception and design; analysis and inter- termined etiology, raising questions about the applicability pretation of the data; critical revision of the article for important intel- of the evidence obtained in terms of diagnostic performance lectual content; final approval of the article. LA: conception and design; analysis and interpretation of the data; critical revision of the article the Colombian context. for important intellectual content; final approval of the article. LYGT: We used evidence from a metanalysis to determine analysis and interpretation of the data; drafting of the article; critical the baseline risks of patients with biliary stricture of undeter- revision of the article for important intellectual content; final approval mined etiology. However, it includes six studies with a low of the article. CB: conception and design; analysis and interpretation of the data; critical revision of the article for important intellectual content; total number of patients (283 patients), which could reduce final approval of the article. JJCG: analysis and interpretation of the data; the applicability of the information to the Colombian context. critical revision of the article for important intellectual content; final Considering the evidence of the use of resources and approval of the article. RC: analysis and interpretation of the data; critical cost-effectiveness, only one article was obtained . The revision of the article for important intellectual content; final approval of the article. MAGZ: analysis and interpretation of the data; critical information reported in that document came from European revision of the article for important intellectual content; final approval population. Therefore, the extrapolation of these data to the of the article. CG: analysis and interpretation of the data; critical revi- Colombian context is challenging. Nevertheless, although sion of the article for important intellectual content; final approval of the implementation of SOC requires an initial considerable the article. AP: analysis and interpretation of the data; critical revision of the article for important intellectual content; final approval of the financing in equipment, technology, and user training, the article. RPM: analysis and interpretation of the data; critical revision clinical benefits and the reduction of additional reinterven- of the article for
