Surgical Endoscopy (2024) 38:499–510
KEYWORDS: panel, biliary, soc, evidence, article, patients, ercp, recommendations, guideline, cholangioscopy, diagnostic, reviews, systematic, data, use


financing in equipment, technology, and user training, the article. RPM: analysis and interpretation of the data; critical revision clinical benefits and the reduction of additional reinterven- of the article for important intellectual content; final approval of the tions outweigh the initial investment . Due to SOC's article. RPC: analysis and interpretation of the data; critical revision improved diagnostic accuracy, decreased reintervention of the article for important intellectual content; final approval of the article. HAPL: analysis and interpretation of the data; critical revision procedure needs, and adverse outcomes, as well as faster of the article for important intellectual content; final approval of the article. RARS: analysis and interpretation of the data; critical revision erally results in a favorable reduction of costs associated of the article for important intellectual content; final approval of the with both the diagnosis of indeterminate biliary strictures article. MSC: analysis and interpretation of the data; critical revision of 1 3 5 08 Surgical Endoscopy (2024) 38:499–510 the article for important intellectual content; final approval of the article. Khor C (2015) Per oral cholangiopancreatoscopy in pancreatico RV: analysis and interpretation of the data; critical revision of the article biliary diseases–expert consensus statements. World J Gastroen- for important intellectual content; final approval of the article. CAAC: terol 21:4722–4734 analysis and interpretation of the data; drafting of the article; critical 2. McCarty TR, Gulati R, Rustagi T (2021) Efficacy and safety of revision of the article for important intellectual content; final approval of peroral cholangioscopy with intraductal lithotripsy for difficult the article. AMGS: analysis and interpretation of the data; drafting of the biliary stones: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Endoscopy article; critical revision of the article for important intellectual content; 53:110–122 final approval of the article. JJYN: conception and design; analysis and 3. Aly FZ, Mostofizadeh S, Jawaid S, Knapik J, Mukhtar F, Klein R interpretation of the data drafting of the article; critical revision of the (2020) Effect of single operator cholangioscopy on accuracy of article for important intellectual content; final approval of the article. bile duct cytology. Diagn Cytopathol 48:1230–1236 AMRR, JJYN: directing and coordinating the panel of experts. LYGT, 4. Kahaleh M, Gaidhane M, Shahid HM, Tyberg A, Sarkar A, JJYN: leader of the review group and summary of the evidence, includ- Ardengh JC, Kedia P, Andalib I, Gress F, Sethi A, Gan SI, Suresh ing the GRADE methodology application. JJYN: Co-chair of the meet- S, Makar
