Surgical Endoscopy (2024) 38:499–510
KEYWORDS: panel, biliary, soc, evidence, article, patients, ercp, recommendations, guideline, cholangioscopy, diagnostic, reviews, systematic, data, use


summary of the evidence, includ- Ardengh JC, Kedia P, Andalib I, Gress F, Sethi A, Gan SI, Suresh ing the GRADE methodology application. JJYN: Co-chair of the meet- S, Makar M, Bareket R, Slivka A, Widmer JL, Jamidar PA, Alkhi- ings with the panel of experts. AMRR, LA, CBA, JJCG, RCLL, MAGZ, ari R, Oleas R, Kim D, Robles-Medranda CA, Raijman I (2022) the manuscript with suggestions to improve the final document. JJYN, a new classification: the Mendoza Classification (with video). CAAC, AMGS and LYGT carried out the systematic literature search Gastrointest Endosc 95:319–326 strategies, the summary and analysis of the evidence, and the writing of 5. Hartman DJ, Slivka A, Giusto DA, Krasinskas AM (2012) Tissue the first manuscript and its adjustment according to the expert panel's yield and diagnostic efficacy of fluoroscopic and cholangioscopic recommendations. AMRR, LYGT, LA, CB, JJCG, RC, MAGZ, CG, AP, techniques to assess indeterminate biliary strictures. Clin Gastro- the content of this document. 6. National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) (2015) The SpyGlass direct visualisation system for diagnostic and thera- Funding Open Access funding provided by Colombia Consortium. The peutic procedures during endoscopy of the biliary system. non-profit organization ACED, which represents gastroenterologists, 7. Gerges C, Beyna T, Tang RSY, Bahin F, Lau JYW, van Geenen E, provided private funding to develop these recommendations. Neuhaus H, Nageshwar Reddy D, Ramchandani M (2020) Digital single-operator peroral cholangioscopy-guided biopsy sampling Declarations versus ERCP-guided brushing for indeterminate biliary strictures: a prospective, randomized, multicenter trial (with video). Gastro- Disclosures Martin Alonso Gómez Zuleta reported conflict of interest intest Endosc 91:1105–1113 due to his business relationship with one of the manufacturers of the 8. Angsuwatcharakon P, Kulpatcharapong S, Moon JH, Ramchan- cholangioscopy equipment. Martin Alonso Gómez Zuleta participated dani M, Lau J, Isayama H, Seo DW, Maydeo A, Wang HP, Nakai in all the deliberation meetings on outcomes and recommendations; Y, Ratanachu-Ek T, Bapaye A, Hu B, Devereaux B, Ponnudurai however, he abstained from voting to define the recommendations of R, Khor C, Kongkam P, Pausawasdi N, Ridtitid W, Piyachaturawat this guideline. Please refer to Supplementary materials 1 and 2 for a P, Khanh PC, Dy F, Rerknimitr R (2022) Consensus guidelines detailed explanation of the expert panel, the reviewer team, and the con- on the role of cholangioscopy to diagnose indeterminate biliary flict-of-interest declaration for each panel member. Adriana Margarita stricture. HPB (Oxford) 24:17–29 Rey Rubiano,
