Surgical Endoscopy (2024) 38:499–510
KEYWORDS: panel, biliary, soc, evidence, article, patients, ercp, recommendations, guideline, cholangioscopy, diagnostic, reviews, systematic, data, use


panel, the reviewer team, and the con- on the role of cholangioscopy to diagnose indeterminate biliary flict-of-interest declaration for each panel member. Adriana Margarita stricture. HPB (Oxford) 24:17–29 Rey Rubiano, Laura Yuriko González-Teshima, Lázaro Arango, Camilo 9. Takada T, Kobayashi S, Yamada A, Uchida Y, Hayashi N (1974) Blanco-Avellaneda, Jhon Jaime Carvajal Gutiérrez, Rodrigo Castaño- A new technique for the diagnosis and therapy of cholangitic Llano, Carlos González, Arecio Peñaloza-Ramírez, Raúl Pinilla Morales, hepatic abscesses; percutaneous transhepatic cholangial drainage Renzo Pinto Carta, Héctor Adolfo Polanía Liscano, Reinaldo Andrés (auther’s transl). Nihon Shokakibyo Gakkai Zasshi 71:657–665 Rincón Sánchez, Mauricio Sepúlveda Copete, Rómulo Vargas-Rubio, 10. Chon HK, Choi KH, Seo SH, Kim TH (2022) Efficacy and safety Camilo Andrés Avendaño Capriles, Andrés Mauricio García Sierra and of percutaneous transhepatic cholangioscopy with the spyglass Juan José Yepes-Nuñez have no conflict of interest to disclose. DS direct visualization system in patients with surgically altered anatomy: a pilot study. Gut Liver 16:111–117 11. Kouli T, Gresz R, Khan J, Abdelwaheed S, Zino S (2022) OGBN Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attri- O06 sharing experience of SpyGlass™ discover and electrohy- bution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adapta- draulic lithotripsy in treating large bile duct stone through the tion, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long trans-cystic approach during laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Br J as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, Surg 109(znac404):029 provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes 12. Du L, D’Souza P, Thiesen A, Girgis S, Owen R, McNally D, were made. The images or other third party material in this article are Sarlieve P, Sandha G (2015) Percutaneous transhepatic cholan- included in the article's Creative Commons licence, unless indicated gioscopy for indeterminate biliary strictures using the SpyGlass otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in system: a case series. Endoscopy 47:1054–1056 the article's Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not 13. Tripathi N, Mardini H, Koirala N, Raissi D, Emhmed Ali SM, permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will Frandah WM (2020) Assessing the utility, findings, and outcomes need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a of percutaneous transhepatic cholangioscopy with Spyglass(TM) copy of this licence, visit reati vecom mons.o rg/l icens es/b y/4.0 /. Direct visualization system:
