Kassieetal.ReproductiveHealth (2019) 16:163
KEYWORDS: stis, students, sexual, study, sexually, infections, transmitted, yes, ethiopia, sex, sexually transmitted, transmitted infections, university, prevalence, gondar


familiarized community, particularly higher in low-income countries including parents or guardians and teachers in secondary schools. Ethiopia. There has been limited information on the University students are categorized under the most at- prevalence and associated factors of sexually transmitted risk population segment (MARPS) due to their inclin- infections among university students in Ethiopia includ- ation to be engaged in risky sexual behavior and their ing the study area. Therefore, this study aimed to assess poor sense of vulnerability [9–14]. Despite this, youth the prevalence of sexually transmitted infections and its have not traditionally been considered a health priority associated factors among the University of Gondar since they have lower morbidity and mortality rates than students. older andyounger agegroups . A total of 803 students were included of which, The national HIV/AIDS policy of Ethiopia identifies 491(61.1%) of students ever practiced sex. Moreover, STIs prevention and control as one of the strategies to 18.2% of students were developed sexually transmitted prevent and control HIV/AIDS . Despite the large infections. The previous history of sexually transmitted scale-up of health care investment for the prevention infections, multiple sexual partners in life, not the use of and treatment of STIs in Ethiopia , the prevalence condoms during sexual intercourse and poor knowledge among the Ethiopian youth rose from 1.15% in 2005 to of sexually transmitted infections were significantly and 4% in 2011 . This continued increase in the independentlyassociatedwithsexuallytransmittedinfec- prevalence of STIs among the youth may have a signifi- risk factors and implications of sexually transmitted youth constitute the bulk of the future workforce . infectioniscrucial toovercometheburden. In spite of the continued increase in the prevalence of STIs in the country, relatively little epidemiological re- Background search has been carried out on the prevalence and asso- Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) are a variety of ciated risk factors of STIs . Hence, quantifying the clinical syndromes caused by pathogens that can be burden of these infections and identifying factors among acquired and transmitted through sexual contact. There students of higher institutions is important for designing are over 30 bacterial, viral, and parasitic pathogens that aneffectiveintervention andallocatingresources.There- have been identified to date to be transmitted sexually fore, this study aimed to assess the prevalence of STIs . Sexually transmitted infections are a major public and its associated factors among the University of long-term complication, infertility, medical as well as psychological consequences and death . Moreover, Methods
