Kassieetal.ReproductiveHealth (2019) 16:163
KEYWORDS: stis, students, sexual, study, sexually, infections, transmitted, yes, ethiopia, sex, sexually transmitted, transmitted infections, university, prevalence, gondar


. Sexually transmitted infections are a major public and its associated factors among the University of long-term complication, infertility, medical as well as psychological consequences and death . Moreover, Methods STIs facilitate the spread of the human immunodefi- Studydesignandsetting ciency virus (HIV) . In 2012, 498.9 and 92.6 million An institution based cross-sectional study was con- respectively. Thus, on average, about 1.4 million people Gondar, located in Gondar town, 748km from Addis are infected with STIs every day . In Ethiopia, the Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia. There were 32,962 highest reported rates of STIs are found among 15–24- students enrolled in different programs. There are three with HIV and 60% of all new HIV infections are also in providing STI diagnosis and treatment services to thatagegroup . students. Because young people are at high risk for risky behav- iors and low use of preventive mechanisms and/or ser- Samplesizeandsamplingprocedures and reproductive health problems. Adolescents and regular undergraduate program during the study period young adults catch the highest rates of curable STIs, and were eligible for the study. The sample size was calcu- 1 in 20 adolescents acquire new STIs each year . lated using the single population proportion formula by Kassieetal.ReproductiveHealth (2019) 16:163 Page3of8 consideringtheprevalenceofSTIsamonguniversity stu- was no significant interaction between independent vari- dents as 19.5% , a 95% confidence interval (CI), and ables. Adjusted Odds Ratio (AOR) with a 95% Confi- a 4% margin of error. By adding a 10% non-response dence Interval (CI) was calculated to determine the rate and a design effect of 2, the final sample was 845 presence and strength of association. In the multivari- students. A multistage sampling technique was used to able analysis, a variable with a p-value less than 0.05 was select participants. Considering 30% rule of thumb and consideredstatisticallysignificant. simple random sampling technique with proportional allocation, 13 departments were selected. The final sam- Result ples were selected from the specified departments using Socio-demographicandfamily-relatedcharacteristics thesystematicrandomsamplingtechnique. A total of 803 university students participated in the study with a response rate of 95%. The median age of Datacollectiontoolandprocedures the participants was 21years (IQR±of 2years). Of the Data was collected using a structured self-administered participants, 52.9% were male,58.3% Orthodox Christian, questionnaire prepared in English. To maintain the and 87.9% were single. The majority (96.9%) of the stu- privacy of participants, seats were arranged far apart. dents were boarding, and 87.3% received pocket money The questionnaire
