Kassieetal.ReproductiveHealth (2019) 16:163
KEYWORDS: stis, students, sexual, study, sexually, infections, transmitted, yes, ethiopia, sex, sexually transmitted, transmitted infections, university, prevalence, gondar


maintain the and 87.9% were single. The majority (96.9%) of the stu- privacy of participants, seats were arranged far apart. dents were boarding, and 87.3% received pocket money The questionnaire was pre-tested on 42 Debre-Tabor from families andrelatives (Table 1). University students outside the study area. Three days of intensive training was given to 10 data collectors se- Behavioralcharacteristics on different variables such as age, sex, religion, marital ography(Table2). status, ethnicity, religious involvement, year of study, familyresidence, monthly pocket money, age at first sex- Sexualcharacteristics ual initiation, number of sexual partners, unprotected About 61.1% of participants, had ever sex, of which sex, sex with commercial sex workers (CSWs), know- 73.5% had sexual intercourse in the last 12months. The ledge on STIs, substance use, watch/read, pornography, mean age at first sexual intercourse was 18.8 (SD +1.9) peer pressure to had sex and previous history of STIs. A years. Furthermore, 42.8% of the students started a sex- male student was considered as STIs positive if he ual activity after they joined the University. Of the sexu- reported one or more of the following syndromes: a his- ally active respondents, 23.6% were initiated their first tory of Genital ulcer or sores, urethral discharge, scrotal sexbefore theageof18years(Table3). swelling, inguinal bubo syndromes in the past 12months priortodatacollection.Afemalestudentwasconsidered Knowledgeofsexuallytransmittedinfections as STIs positive, if she reported one or more of the Almost all students (98%) were ever heard about STIs. followingsyndromes:abnormal vaginaldischarge, genital The majority of students (90.4%) reported that unpro- ulcer or sores, lower abdominal pain syndromes in the tected sex was the major mode of transmission for STIs. past 12months prior to data collection. Knowledge of Moreover, more than half (55.3%) of students had good STIs was assessed using different questions which con- knowledgeofSTIs. tained having information on STIs, prevention, ways of transmission, sign and symptoms and possible complica- Prevalenceofsexuallytransmittedinfections tions of STIs. Students who scored the mean and above The overall prevalence of sexually transmitted infections inggoodknowledgeofSTIs. 20.8) in the past 12months. About half (46.6%) female students were known to be infected (Fig. 1). In the last Dataprocessingandanalysis 12months, genital ulcer and vaginal discharge were the Datawerechecked,coded,andenteredintoEpiDataver- most prevalentsyndromesreported by 43.6 and 55.9% of sion 3.1 and exported to SPSS version 20 statistical soft- the male and female students who had signs and symp- ware for further analysis. Descriptive statistics were used tomsofSTIs, respectively (Fig.2). to characterize participants using different variables. Both bivariate and
