NLM Citation: Hoofnagle JH. Amiodarone. [Updated 2026 Feb 6]. In:
KEYWORDS: amiodarone, liver, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, alt, injury, year, developed, old, year old, acute, pmid year, bilirubin, liver injury


LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Bookshelf URL: Amiodarone Updated: February 6, 2026. OVERVIEW Introduction Amiodarone is a potent arrhythmia suppressing agent that has been clearly linked to several distinct forms of drug induced liver disease. Background Amiodarone (a" mee oh' da rone) is an iodinated benzofuran derivative that is a structural analogue of thyroid hormone but is used as an arrhythmia suppressing agent. Amiodarone may interact with thyroid nuclear receptors, but its antiarrhythmic effects are believed to be mediated by its action in blocking membrane ion channels via perturbation of the lipid environment in the membrane bilayer. Amiodarone is highly lipophilic and is concentrated in many tissues and cells, including hepatocytes. It has a slow onset of action and a long but variable elimination half-life (up to 6 months) and, when given chronically, can accumulate in tissues including the liver. Amiodarone is highly effective in suppressing ventricular arrhythmias and in maintaining sinus rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation. Amiodarone was first approved for use in the United States in 1985 and it is still widely used with approximately two million outpatient prescriptions written yearly. Approved indications are limited to recurrent, serious ventricular arrhythmias which have not responded to other available antiarrhythmics. In addition, amiodarone is frequently used off-label for suppression of atrial fibrillation and maintenance of normal sinus rhythm after cardioversion. Amiodarone is available in tablets of 200 and 400 mg in generic forms and under the brand names of Cordarone and Pacerone. It is also available in solution for intravenous administration. Amiodarone is typically given in high loading doses of 800 to 1600 mg daily, either intravenously or orally until the arrhythmia is controlled, and as maintenance oral doses for long term therapy of 200 to 600 mg daily. Liver toxicity appears to be more common with higher doses. Amiodarone has multiple adverse side effects including fatigue, tremor, involuntary movements, poor coordination, peripheral neuropathy, nausea, vomiting, constipation, anorexia, confusion, hallucinations, visual disturbances, corneal deposits, skin discoloration and rash, photosensitivity, bradycardia, and worsening of arrhythmias. Potentially severe adverse events which can be serious and occasionally fatal include pneumonitis, pulmonary fibrosis, optic neuropathy, blindness, thyroid dysfunction, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrosis, hemolytic anemia, neurologic toxicity worsening arrhythmias, embryo-fetal toxicity, and liver injury. Author Affiliation: 1 Liver Disease Research Branch, NIDDK, NIH; Email: . 2
