NLM Citation: Hoofnagle JH. Amiodarone. [Updated 2026 Feb 6]. In:
KEYWORDS: amiodarone, liver, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, alt, injury, year, developed, old, year old, acute, pmid year, bilirubin, liver injury


thyroid dysfunction, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrosis, hemolytic anemia, neurologic toxicity worsening arrhythmias, embryo-fetal toxicity, and liver injury. Author Affiliation: 1 Liver Disease Research Branch, NIDDK, NIH; Email: . 2 LiverTox Hepatotoxicity While liver injury from amiodarone is uncommon, it is not rare. Serum enzyme elevations are reported to occur in 15% to 50% of patients on long term therapy, but with lower doses (200 to 300 mg daily), ALT elevations are less common. Often these elevations resolve despite continuation of amiodarone, and liver biopsy may reveal minimal changes, or accumulation of granular material in macrophages without other evidence of injury. Patients taking amiodarone are recommended to have ALT and AST values taken at baseline and then every six months, and to discontinue therapy if levels are persistently greater than twice the upper limit of the normal range. The efficacy of this approach, even if followed, in preventing serious liver injury from amiodarone is unclear. Clinically apparent liver disease arises in up to 1% of amiodarone-treated patients annually. The liver injury occurs more frequently with higher doses and prolonged therapy, and total cumulative dosage may be important as amiodarone can accumulate and can persist in liver tissue, even long after therapy is stopped. Typically, patients develop symptoms of fatigue, nausea and weight loss without jaundice and are found to have hepatomegaly and mild-to-moderate elevations in serum aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase levels. Jaundice can occur but is mild; however, with severe injury, jaundice can progress and there may be prolongation of the prothrombin time and fall in serum albumin levels, and development of signs and symptoms of end stage liver disease with progressive weakness, weight loss, ascites, and hepatic encephalopathy (Cases 1 and 2). The injury resembles alcoholic liver disease clinically and histologically, although serum ALT and AST are usually elevated to a similar degree in amiodarone toxicity in contrast to alcoholic liver injury. Like in alcoholic liver disease, the ALT elevations are generally modest with normal or minimally elevated alkaline phosphatase levels. However, the pattern of enzyme elevations can vary from marked ALT elevations in a hepatocellular injury pattern, to minimal ALT increases with more prominent alkaline phosphatase elevations in a cholestatic pattern. The injury resolves slowly after stopping therapy and in some cases progresses for a period despite discontinuation. Liver biopsy shows variable findings; early there is micro- and macrovesicular fat, ballooning degeneration, and mild inflammation, whereas later there
