NLM Citation: Hoofnagle JH. Amiodarone. [Updated 2026 Feb 6]. In:
KEYWORDS: amiodarone, liver, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, alt, injury, year, developed, old, year old, acute, pmid year, bilirubin, liver injury


and in some cases progresses for a period despite discontinuation. Liver biopsy shows variable findings; early there is micro- and macrovesicular fat, ballooning degeneration, and mild inflammation, whereas later there is moderate inflammation (sometimes granulomatous) and variable amounts of fibrosis and Mallory bodies but little steatosis. Electron microscopy reveals characteristic abnormal mitochondria and phospholipid laden lysosomes (seen on light microscopy as granular cells), but these changes can be observed even in the absence of significant liver injury. The liver is oft en bright on CT scan without contrast, due to accumulation of the iodinated drug and not necessarily indicating liver injury. Amiodarone and its derivatives can be detected in plasma and in hepatic tissue, and these levels may remain high for months if not years after stopping. Amiodarone has also been associated with rare cases of Reye Syndrome, usually arising in a child on chronic amiodarone therapy who develops an acute viral syndrome suggesting influenza. Amiodarone, like aspirin, has been shown to interfere with mitochondrial function, which may be the basis for the acute injury resembling Reye syndrome in susceptible children. Finally, amiodarone is capable of causing a distinctly different form of liver injury when it is given intravenously, particularly if given in high doses to elderly or frail patients (Cases 3 and 4). Serum ALT and AST can be markedly elevated (10 to 100 fold) within a day of the infusion, with minimal increases in alkaline phosphatase. Renal insufficiency can also occur. Usually, the liver injury reverses quickly with stopping the infusion, with ALT and AST falling into the normal range within days. In rare instances, jaundice and even acute liver failure have occurred shortly after initiating intravenous amiodarone therapy. Importantly, the mechanism of injury in this acute situation is probably different than in chronic exposure, and patients with acute hepatic injury following intravenous infusions of amiodarone can usually tolerate oral therapy without complications. However, reexposure to intravenous amiodarone is usually followed by reappearance of the acute injury. Likelihood score: A (well established cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Amiodarone 3 Mechanism of Injury The cause of amiodarone hepatotoxicity appears to be direct damage to lipid bilayers and disturbance of lysosomal and/or mitochondrial function. Amiodarone appears to be potent inhibitor of phospholipase A accounting for the accumulation of lipid-rich material in lysosomes. The pattern of injury also suggests mitochondrial injury and dysfunction resulting in microvesicular fat and ballooning degeneration,
