NLM Citation: Hoofnagle JH. Amiodarone. [Updated 2026 Feb 6]. In:
KEYWORDS: amiodarone, liver, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, alt, injury, year, developed, old, year old, acute, pmid year, bilirubin, liver injury


inhibitor of phospholipase A accounting for the accumulation of lipid-rich material in lysosomes. The pattern of injury also suggests mitochondrial injury and dysfunction resulting in microvesicular fat and ballooning degeneration, which leads to fibrosis and Mallory body formation. The acute liver injury from intravenous amiodarone has been variously attributed to idiosyncratic toxicity, hypersensitivity and toxicity of the vehicle (polysorbate 80). Autopsy material from patients with acute hepatic injury after intravenous amiodarone shows centrolobular necrosis and collapse with minimal inflammation and no appreciable fat, changes that are suggestive of ischemic hepatitis. Because amiodarone is often used in patients with advanced heart disease, the cause of the acute liver injury may be hypotension caused by the infusion rather than a direct effect of the drug. Outcome and Management The product label for amiodarone has a specific warning about hepatotoxicity that can be severe and even fatal. Monitoring for signs and symptoms of liver disease is recommended as well as periodic monitoring of serum aminotransferase levels with discontinuation if signs or symptoms of liver disease arise. The chronic injury that occurs with long term oral amiodarone therapy is typically prolonged and resolves slowly over months. Indeed, some patients are left with permanent injury, with findings of hepatomegaly and inactive cirrhosis. Oral amiodarone therapy should be discontinued if there is any clinical evidence of hepatic injury or symptoms (hepatomegaly, weakness, ascites, jaundice) or if serum aminotransferase activities are consistently elevated more than three times the upper limit of normal. In situations in which amiodarone is considered life sustaining, liver biopsy can guide whether the medication should be discontinued or not. Imaging can be helpful, but the finding of a bright liver is common with chronic therapy even in the absence of significant liver injury. Noninvasive markers of serious liver injury include persistent decreases in serum albumin levels, prolongation of INR, and decrease in platelet count. There are no specific therapies or antidotes for amiodarone toxicity. Intravenous amiodarone should only be given with careful monitoring and repeat serum aminotransferase testing at least daily if not every 12 hours. The acute hepatic necrosis like injury from iv amiodarone is rapidly reversible if the infusion is stopped promptly and early. Treatment with N-acetylcysteine has been proposed as being beneficial, but is not of proven efficacy, and can have its own toxicities. Drug Class: Antiarrhythmic Agents See also: Dronedarone CASE REPORTS Case 1. Cirrhosis and end stage liver
