NLM Citation: Hoofnagle JH. Amiodarone. [Updated 2026 Feb 6]. In:
KEYWORDS: amiodarone, liver, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, alt, injury, year, developed, old, year old, acute, pmid year, bilirubin, liver injury


treated with amiodarone for atrial fibrillation developed fatigue and was found to have liver disease and cirrhosis. He had a long history of moderate social alcohol intake and obesity and was known to have minor elevations in serum aminotransferase levels, which were attributed to alcohol. During a period of stress, he developed atrial fibrillation without other signs of heart disease. After unsuccessful cardioversion, he was placed on amiodarone (300 mg daily). Within six months he noted the onset of worsening fatigue, weakness, weight loss, and increased need for sleep. On examination, he had an enlarged and firm liver with mild hepatic encephalopathy, asterixis, and fetor hepaticus. Serum aminotransferase levels were minimally abnormal and bilirubin remained less than 2.0 mg/dL. Serum ammonia levels were high. A liver biopsy was initially interpreted as showing alcoholic cirrhosis, but on review by expert hepatic pathologists the presence of granulomas, the frequency of Mallory bodies and the minimal fatty change suggested amiodarone hepatotoxicity. Both alcohol intake and amiodarone were stopped and he recovered. Mild episodes of hepatic encephalopathy were treated with lactulose, but three years later he was without symptoms, working full time and liver tests were normal. Key Points Medication: Amiodarone Pattern: Hepatocellular (minimal elevations) Severity: 4+ (cirrhosis and hepatic decompensation) Latency: 6 months Recovery: Months Other medications: Multivitamins Laboratory Values Time After Time After ALT Alk P Bilirubin Other Starting Stopping (U/L) (U/L) (mg/dL) -3 months 56 0.9 -1 month 34 102 0.6 Amiodarone started 2 months 96 98 0.9 6 months 67 115 1.7 Liver biopsy: cirrhosis Amiodarone stopped 6 LiverTox Table continued from previous page. Time After Time After ALT Alk P Bilirubin Other Starting Stopping (U/L) (U/L) (mg/dL) 1 week 37 114 1.3 Protime 14.5 sec 4 weeks 39 102 1.7 8 weeks 26 78 1.6 Ammonia=96 µmol 12 weeks 20 80 1.3 3 years 15 81 1.3 Normal Values <42 <115 <1.2 Comment The history and presentation were typical of liver injury from long term amiodarone therapy, but the history of moderate alcohol intake (2 to 5 drinks per day) and obesity made the diagnosis difficult. The quality of the inflammation, relative lack of steatosis and frequency of Mallory bodies on liver biopsy suggested amiodarone induced liver disease and led to its discontinuation. Also typical were the minimal abnormalities in laboratory tests (ALT, AST, and alkaline phosphatase). Laboratory tests improved rapidly but signs of underlying cirrhosis persisted as did
