Current Microbiology (2022) 79:330
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, bacterial, efflux, antimicrobial, pathogens, peptides, used, cell, aureus, antibiotic resistance, pumps, agents


REVIEW ARTICLE Emerging Non‑Traditional Approaches to Combat Antibiotic Resistance Aditya Narayan Konwar1,2 · Shabiha Nudrat Hazarika1,3 · Pranami Bharadwaj1,2 · Debajit Thakur1 Received: 8 February 2022 / Accepted: 8 September 2022 / Published online: 25 September 2022 © The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature 2022 Abstract An increasing number of bacterial pathogens are acquiring resistance to the commonly used antibiotics. This has spurred a global threat leading to a resistance era and has penetrated the consciousness of the common people and the clinicians alike. The delay in discovering new antibiotics has exacerbated the resistance problem, forcing researchers to focus on unconven- tional antimicrobial therapeutics that differ from conventional antibiotics. Alternative therapies have emerged in recent years, including antimicrobial peptides, phage therapy, efflux pump inhibitors, antibodies, and immunomodulatory agents, which such as CRISPR-Cas system and peptide nucleic acids aided in the development of sequence-specific antimicrobials. Moreo- have accelerated the discovery of novel combination approaches that enhance the performance of already in-use antibiotics. In this review, we provide an overview of these approaches along with studies that focus on the uncharted microbial ter- ritories that have been able to deliver some of the important new antibiotics of recent times. It is hoped that the information gathered in this article will provide an update on the current antibiotic resistance threat and encourage profound research. Introduction can withstand every known antibiotic action resulting in the emergence of multidrug-resistant (MDR) bacteria. The cat- Since the discovery of penicillin in 1929, the “wonder drug” egory of multidrug-resistant bacteria has been segregated has been used indiscriminately to eliminate infection-caus- into extensively drug-resistant (XDR) bacteria and pan- ing organisms. The discovery of penicillin, its modifications, drug resistance (PDR) bacteria depending on the degrees and the subsequent discovery of bioactive scaffolds derived of resistance to varieties of drugs including the pathogens from natural products served as thrusters to advance the anti- which are resistant to all the approved antimicrobial agents. biotic field into its golden age. Antibiotics were effective In a study that was published in 2011, researchers dem- enough to treat bacterial infections caused by medical pro- onstrated that the phenomenon of antibiotic resistance is cedures that could otherwise would have been fatal. Because ancient and predates the current pressure to use antibiotics. of the decrease in the prevalence of infectious diseases, cli- When metagenomic DNA from 30,000-year-old permafrost nicians
