Current Microbiology (2022) 79:330
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, bacterial, efflux, antimicrobial, pathogens, peptides, used, cell, aureus, antibiotic resistance, pumps, agents


have been fatal. Because ancient and predates the current pressure to use antibiotics. of the decrease in the prevalence of infectious diseases, cli- When metagenomic DNA from 30,000-year-old permafrost nicians have been focusing more on the improvement of sediments was analyzed, it was discovered to contain several medical procedures. But since the onset of the resistance genes for β-lactam, carbapenem, and vancomycin resistance era, life is being continuously threatened by microbes that and to be strikingly similar to their modern counterparts . This suggests that the widespread use of antibiotics in modern times has favored the resistance determinants that * Debajit Thakur were already present in the bacterial pan-genome. Thus, the antibiotic resistome, or the diversity of the genes responsible 1 Microbial Biotechnology Laboratory, Life Sciences for antibacterial resistance must be thoroughly understood and Technology, Guwahati, Assam 781035, India be developed . In the year 2021, Lopatkin et al. discov- 2 Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), ered that antibiotic resistance may be conferred by mutations Ghaziabad 201002, India in the core metabolic genes which regulate innate pathways Vol.:(0112 33456789) pathways in bacteria in numerous complex ways, it is rea- carbapenems, monobactams, and β-lactam—β-lactamase sonable to investigate the plethora of metabolic changes that inhibitors based on data collected from tertiary hospitals may confer resistance. As a result, metabolic mutations must and research labs. Because India was hit by the COVID-19 be considered as a new mechanism of resistance in addition pandemic during the reporting period, the resistance pattern to the three major mechanisms of resistance: target modifica- was also examined among isolates from secondary bacte- tion, drug inactivation, and drug transportation. Pathogens, rial infections in COVID-19-positive patients. These data armed with these mechanisms, are constantly in conflict with revealed that Klebsiella pneumoniae (K. pneumoniae) was researchers trying to render them inactive. the most commonly isolated pathogen from the respiratory It has been proposed that antibacterial resistance is inevi- tract of COVID-19-positive patients followed by Acineto- table and likely to persist even if antibiotic use is reduced bacter baumannii (A. baumannii) and Escherichia coli (E. . Moreover, the overuse of antibiotics through over-the- coli). Additionally, it has been discovered that when these guidelines, contributes significantly to the spread of resist- their antibiotic resistance increased noticeably. In addition, ance. Developing countries use antibiotics more indiscrimi- according to a recent report by the Center for Disease Con- nately than developed countries, but
