Current Microbiology (2022) 79:330
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, bacterial, efflux, antimicrobial, pathogens, peptides, used, cell, aureus, antibiotic resistance, pumps, agents


their antibiotic resistance increased noticeably. In addition, ance. Developing countries use antibiotics more indiscrimi- according to a recent report by the Center for Disease Con- nately than developed countries, but it is evident that even trol (CDC) in the United States, an estimated 2.8 million the high-income countries face challenges of access and people are infected with antibiotic-resistant pathogens each excess . As a result, novel strategies for dealing with these year, with 35,000 deaths. Furthermore, $4.6 billion was new realities are desperately needed. Recent strategies being required to treat infections caused by six multidrug-resistant developed by researchers all over the world, as well as the bacteria. The CDC has categorized 18 antibiotic-resistant current state of antibiotic resistance, have been highlighted bacteria and fungi into three categories based on their level alternatives to antibiotics, compounds that target previously concerning” . Considering these scenarios, there is an ignored unconventional mechanisms of bacteria, and revis- urgent need for the development of novel therapies to treat iting previously described methods. The information cov- bacterial infections caused by multidrug-resistant pathogens. ered in this article is intended to give readers some ideas for commencing research and development for introducing Revisiting Natural Products as a Source new techniques to strengthen our fight against drug-resistant of Novel Antibiotics pathogens. The current state of antibiotic resistance demands alternative The Current State of Antibiotic Resistance strategies for dealing with the growing problem and revisit- ing the natural products derived from microorganisms is one Resistance to commonly used antibiotics has recently peaked such promising field. Various studies attempting to explore resulting in the emergence of multidrug-resistant bacteria the natural environment with new techniques insights have capable of resisting the action of last resort antibiotics such resulted in the discovery of rare and novel antimicrobi- as colistin and tigecycline. als. In an attempt to explore the vast universe of uncharted WHO recently published a report on the global short- microbes, Omsland et al., were successful in cultivating age of novel antimicrobials in April 2021, concluding that Coxiella burnetti (C. burnetti) in a host-cell-free environ- the current antibiotic development pipelines and clinically ment through optimization of culture media . Since approved antibiotics are insufficient to combat drug-resistant then, research on natural products from this rare organism development against pathogens outlined in February 2017 finding rare organisms is to find the optimal culture condi- bacterial priority pathogens list. For the first time, WHO
