Current Microbiology (2022) 79:330
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, bacterial, efflux, antimicrobial, pathogens, peptides, used, cell, aureus, antibiotic resistance, pumps, agents


from this rare organism development against pathogens outlined in February 2017 finding rare organisms is to find the optimal culture condi- bacterial priority pathogens list. For the first time, WHO tion to grow the said organism. One of the ways to find this included non-traditional antibacterial medicines in its report, synchronized condition is to use microfluidics devices. In which examined 27 non-traditional antibacterial agents another study by Ma et al., a new bacterium called microflu- such as antibodies and bacteriophages . Moreover, in the idics I was isolated by developing a device with 3200 nano- Indian scenario, the Indian Council of Medical Research liter-sized wells which, when allowed to process the sample, (ICMR) in its annual report on Antimicrobial Resistance would contain only one cell at a time, allowing it to grow Research and Surveillance Network (from January 2020 to without any competition from other species for nutrients. December 2020) represented recent resistance trends on the The study’s most intriguing aspect was the use of samples priority pathogens . The report highlighted the lower- targeting the human microbiota in search of novel species ing sensitivities of pathogens to commonly used antibiot- . A research team from Northeastern University in Bos- ics for drug-resistant pathogens such as cephalosporins, ton, along with other collaborators, attempted to incubate the 1 3 microorganisms in their own natural habitats, i.e., soil, with gained global attention. Nanomaterials such as nanoparti- a recently developed device called the iChip. This resulted cles, nanorods, nanowires, and 2D materials can augment in the identification of one of the most significant antibi- the action of antibiotics by acting as carriers or they can otics in recent years, teixobactin . The iChip allowed be used as standalone bactericidal agents . On the the growth of many different species which would not have other hand, phytochemicals of various classes have demon- been possible if it were incubated in conventional labora- strated substantial inhibitory potential against drug-resistant tory conditions leading to the discovery of Eleftheria terrae, pathogens by interfering with resistance pathways such as a bacterium that produced the antibiotic teixobactin. This efflux pumps, biofilms, and bacterial cell communications antibiotic, a macrocyclic depsipeptide, has distinct pharma- . But translating these phytochemicals into marketable cological properties along with interesting structural features product has been in a major standstill. The major non-tra- such as D-amino acids and non-standard amino acids. It is a ditional strategies that
