Current Microbiology (2022) 79:330
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, bacterial, efflux, antimicrobial, pathogens, peptides, used, cell, aureus, antibiotic resistance, pumps, agents


properties along with interesting structural features product has been in a major standstill. The major non-tra- such as D-amino acids and non-standard amino acids. It is a ditional strategies that were outlined by WHO that have the potent antimicrobial against Gram-positive bacteria where it potential to be translated into marketable product include interrupts cell wall synthesis by binding to lipid II and lipid antimicrobial peptides. These are short peptides with vari- III which are essential for peptidoglycan and wall teichoic able mode of actions that can cripple the pathogen defense acid synthesis, respectively . Because it is a moderately systems, efflux pump inhibitors, which act to block one of complex depsipeptide, researchers have begun complete syn- the most efficient mechanisms developed by living beings thesis of the molecule to simplify the remaining structural to throw out unwanted chemicals, phage therapy, which uses complexities. This has resulted in the synthesis of various one of nature’s menacing organisms such as the viruses that teixobactin analogues with enhanced and distinct modes of only targets bacteria in their own specific way, and combi- action, such as supramolecular assembly, which ultimately natorial therapy, which attempts to blend the properties of disrupts the cell membrane. . some important compounds that increases the efficacy of Prospecting for genes that produce bioactive compounds antibiotics and sensitizes the pathogens to commonly used is also prominent for locating new species and their com- drugs. The WHO has recently acknowledged antibodies and pounds. A machine-learning algorithm was developed by immunomodulatory drugs as non-traditional therapeutics for Donia et al., that recognizes the pattern in these important treating infectious diseases. Also, sequence-specific antimi- genes and looks for similar hits when let loose on bacte- crobials including gene editing tools such as CRISPR-Cas rial genomes of interest. Recently, the team employed an system and peptide nucleic acids have also gained impor- improved version of this algorithm for prospecting of genes tance recently for the development of ultra-narrow-spec- from the human microbiota and revealed a substantial num- trum therapeutics. A schematic representation of how these ber of biosynthetic gene clusters for many important bioac- approaches are being used to tackle antibiotic resistance is tive compounds. Further investigations led to the structure represented in Fig. 1. These emerging approaches can be elucidation of a thiopeptide antibiotic, lactocillin, from a the utilized to halt the reversal of our current situation to the prominent member of the vaginal
