Current Microbiology (2022) 79:330
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, bacterial, efflux, antimicrobial, pathogens, peptides, used, cell, aureus, antibiotic resistance, pumps, agents


These emerging approaches can be elucidation of a thiopeptide antibiotic, lactocillin, from a the utilized to halt the reversal of our current situation to the prominent member of the vaginal microbiota . pre-antibiotic era and to transform the current resistance era Natural product discovery is an ongoing search that has into a narrow-spectrum era in which antibiotic therapy will resulted in the discovery of some of the most important be more specific and personalized to each individual. molecules in recent history. With the aid of cutting-edge Targeting the Bacterial Cell Membrane— sequencing platforms and prediction algorithms, ventures Antimicrobial Peptides into previously uncharted natural habitats have gained popu- larity and shown promising results. Antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) are cationic host defense peptides with variable mechanism of actions that are pro- Non‑Traditional Approaches to Combat duced ubiquitously among all the kingdoms including pro- Antibiotic Resistance tozoa, bacteria, archaea, fungi, plants, and animals. These The vast knowledge on pathogen cellular mechanics has by associating themselves into the membrane leading to per- highlighted the various potential targets that can be exploited turbation of its bilayer structure. These host defense peptides for antibiotic development. Important metabolic pathways (HDPs) are major role players in the innate immune system, in bacteria that can be inhibited with having a detrimen- regulating key features such as the chemokine release from tal effect on their survival should be the targets of new immune cells, wound healing enhancement, anti-apoptotic drugs. Consequently, researchers have focused on targets effect on immune cells, and acting as adjuvants to stimulate for which resistance should be hard to develop. The arsenal the adaptive immune response . for combatting resistance can be expanded to include nano- The prospect of using these agents for targeting patho- materials and phytopharmaceuticals, which have recently genic microorganisms raises hopes to circumvent the 1 3 Fig. 1 Schematic representation of the various approaches used use antibiotics and mining the uncharted microbial territories, work for combating antibiotic resistance in the recent times. Approaches together to halt the progress of antibiotic resistance and transform it including unconventional targets of the pathogens, alternative thera- into a narrow-spectrum era where antibiotics act specifically to target pies, ultra-narrow-spectrum antimicrobials, revamping the already in- the drug-resistant pathogens growing resistance against antimicrobial agents because of new and promising peptide derivatives with antimicrobial three major reasons: Firstly, AMP’s act through a physical activity against diverse multidrug-resistant pathogens . mode of action
