Current Microbiology (2022) 79:330
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, bacterial, efflux, antimicrobial, pathogens, peptides, used, cell, aureus, antibiotic resistance, pumps, agents


against antimicrobial agents because of new and promising peptide derivatives with antimicrobial three major reasons: Firstly, AMP’s act through a physical activity against diverse multidrug-resistant pathogens . mode of action attributed to their charged nature enabling In various studies, including that of Malekkhaiat Häffner membrane disruption. Resistance against this mechanism and Malmsten et al., , the impact of the introduction of is rare among bacteria. Secondly, resistance is difficult to dimers in AMPs for enhanced activity as well as reduced develop due to the diverse mode of action of a single pep- toxicity was demonstrated. In their study, they success- tide, which is dependent on peptide structure, peptide to fully showed the peptide self-assembly (micelles, vesicles, lipid ratio, and lipid membrane properties. Resistance is hard nanofibers, nanotubes, etc.) with an increased antimicrobial to develop. Lastly, because of advancements in sequencing activity. In another study, Zhu et al. designed analogs of technologies and molecular dynamics platforms, these small Mastoparan-C an antimicrobial peptide with excellent broad- peptides can be easily modified and developed in silico for spectrum activity but is highly toxic to mammalian cells due use as adjuvants to other antibiotics to enhance their activi- to high cell membrane perturbation capability. The screened ties and break any developing resistance. analogs showed remarkably less toxicity and were shown Till date, several different mechanisms of AMPs depicting to aid the antibiotics rifampicin and gentamicin in ceasing their action have been reported. Kim et al. , evaluated Gram-negative bacterial infections . the immunomodulatory activity of chicken NK (cNK) lysin, Antimicrobial peptides offer hopes for combating anti- the chicken homologue of human granulysin. cNK is a cati- microbial resistance, but they face challenges such as high onic amphiphilic antimicrobial peptide (AMP) produced by cytotoxicity, high production costs compared to conven- cytotoxic T cells and natural killer cells and its derivatives, tional antibiotics such as aminoglycosides, and non-selective particularly the peptide cNK-2. They recognized the role of membrane disruption. Antimicrobial peptides offer hope for AMPs in modulating both innate and adaptive responses. combating antimicrobial resistance, but they face challenges They used the site-directed mutation approach to decipher such as high cytotoxicity, high production costs compared the structure and function of the peptides. In a relatively to conventional antibiotics such as aminoglycosides, and the approach of chemical modifications through conjugation ous antimicrobial peptides such as Nisin, Gramicidin, Poly- of fatty acid chains of varying lengths into peptides.
