Current Microbiology (2022) 79:330
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, bacterial, efflux, antimicrobial, pathogens, peptides, used, cell, aureus, antibiotic resistance, pumps, agents


conventional antibiotics such as aminoglycosides, and the approach of chemical modifications through conjugation ous antimicrobial peptides such as Nisin, Gramicidin, Poly- of fatty acid chains of varying lengths into peptides. Acet- mixins, and others have revealed that in order to improve the ylation, cyclization, and several other reactions produced efficacy, various strategies such as shortening the peptide 1 3 length to reduce production costs, searching for optimal be classified into two broad categories (i) EPIs that work delivery systems where the peptides can be encapsulated for by decoupling the energy from efflux pumps, and (ii) EPIs better bioavailability, and modifying the peptide sequence that directly binds and inhibits the efflux pumps. On the for improved bio selectivity must be implemented . other hand, EPIs can also be classified based on its their source which includes broad categories such as (i) Plant- Targeting the Bacterial Efflux Mechanism—Efflux based EPIs, (ii) Synthetic EPIs, and (iii) EPIs derived from Pump Inhibitors microorganisms . A few examples of the most com- monly used EPIs that encompass this broad classification Antibiotic resistance is known to occur through three major are listed in Table 1. processes including drug inactivation, alteration of the tar- One of the ways of inhibiting the pumps is blocking get molecules intrinsic to the bacteria, and efflux of drugs the outer membrane factor (OMF) of the tripartite efflux preventing their accumulation inside the cell to impede intra- pumps. Two indole derivatives were designed that were cellular activity. The efflux pumps present in the cytoplas- capable of blocking TolC, the OMF of different Entero- mic membrane aid in this process by selectively pumping bacteriaceae efflux pumps, resulting in strain sensitization out chemical compounds against its concentration gradient to antibiotics such as chloramphenicol, tetracycline, eryth- (active mechanism). Although, initially discovered in bac- romycin, and ciprofloxacin . In a very recent study, teria, these efflux pumps are prevalent in higher eukaryotes, the importance of norA efflux pumps to confer resistance where they form a major part of the genome sequence. The among S. aureus isolates from ciprofloxacin was estab- presence of drug transporters in eukaryotic cells can be lished, highlighting the importance of its inhibition to explained by the fact that the majority of these transport- control the evolution of resistant strains overexpressing ers have broad specificities and select unrelated classes of norA pumps, and it has been reported in many studies compounds. Furthermore, transporters
