Current Microbiology (2022) 79:330
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, bacterial, efflux, antimicrobial, pathogens, peptides, used, cell, aureus, antibiotic resistance, pumps, agents


transport- control the evolution of resistant strains overexpressing ers have broad specificities and select unrelated classes of norA pumps, and it has been reported in many studies compounds. Furthermore, transporters serve as a general that plant-based natural products have promising inhibi- barrier against amphiphilic compounds that may cross the tory effect against norA pumps [28–31]. cytoplasmic barrier and disturb the osmotic balance of the Inhibiting the expression of multidrug efflux pumps is cell. Advances in structural biology have deciphered the also a substantial alternative that can be useful against structure of these transporter proteins and their mecha- efflux pumps whose basal expression can contribute to the nism of transportation which forms a tripartite system that intrinsic resistance of a bacterium . Short anti-sense allows the flow of molecules across the cytoplasmic bar- oligomers have been used to disrupt the expression of rier along the periplasmic space of Gram-negative bacteria AcrAB-TolC efflux system in E. coli which hyper-sensi- . Insights into the molecular mechanisms of these trans- tizes them to antibiotics . The efficacy of the short oli- porters have enlightened certain crucial points that can be gomer is highly specific to the conserved target sequence manipulated in order to develop future drugs targeting these of the bacteria and have low detectable toxicity against mechanisms. The development of efflux pump inhibitors human cells. In another study, anti-sense peptide nucleic (EPIs) is imperative when multidrug-resistant bacteria are acids were designed to target the three components of the concerned since efflux pumps form a major determinant for CmeABC efflux pump in Campylobacter jejuni which drug resistance. An optimal inhibitor is expected to reduce inhibited its expression and resulted in a sensitive strain the intrinsic resistance of the bacteria against antibiotics and against antibiotics . Although, the use of these anti- other drugs along with curbing the emerging frequency of sense nucleotides has been found to be effective in lab multidrug-resistant strains. The inhibition of efflux can be conditions, it is still unknown whether it will be effective accomplished in various ways including (i) downregulating in clinical settings or pass the clinical trials. the expression of efflux pump genes by manipulating the EPIs promise considerable efficacy in curbing antibi- genetic regulation, (ii) redesigning previously used antibiot- otic resistance primarily by aiding the antibiotics in their ics, (iii) inhibiting the assembly of functional efflux pumps, mode of action, or by weakening the bacteria before anti-
