Current Microbiology (2022) 79:330
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, bacterial, efflux, antimicrobial, pathogens, peptides, used, cell, aureus, antibiotic resistance, pumps, agents


used antibiot- otic resistance primarily by aiding the antibiotics in their ics, (iii) inhibiting the assembly of functional efflux pumps, mode of action, or by weakening the bacteria before anti- (iv) avoiding substrate binding to the active site of the efflux biotics take effect. Although experiments have suggested for energizing these pumps. The EPIs are molecules that are toxicity is still required to effectively administer EPIs able to fulfill almost all of the inhibition criteria. along with antibiotics. But hope has been shown by stud- Although there is a myriad of EPIs in the laboratory ies on approved drugs where more than 1200 drugs were stage showing promising inhibitory activity, classifying screened and a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, nilotinib, was them is a difficult task since the mode of action of many found to be effective in inhibiting the norA efflux pump of them is unknown. Nonetheless, depending on the cur- which confers resistance to S. aureus against fluoroqui- rent data regarding the mode of action of EPIs, they can nolones (e.g., ciprofloxacin) . 1 3 Table 1 List of EPIs effective against various efflux pumps SL. No EPI Source Mechanism of Action Inhibitory Conc References 1 EA-371a, EA-371d Streptomyces MF-EA-371-NS1 MDR pump MexAB-OprM of 0.625 mg/l caused a four-fold Pseudomonas aeruginosa (P. reduction in the MIC of levo- aeruginosa) PAM1032 floxacin 2 5’-MHC Hydrastis canadensis Targets NorA of Staphylococcus Not found aureus (S. aureus) 3 SK-20 and SK-56 Piper nigrum In low dose, it inhibits P-gp Not found (Piperine ana- expression and function but logs) higher dose can enhance P-gp protein and MDR1 mRNA levels 4 Reserpine Rauwolfia serpentina NorA, TetK, MepA, Bmr of S. 13.2 ± 1.02 μM and 10 ± 3 μM, aureus, Bacillus subtilis, Strep- respectively tococcus pneumoniae 5 Theobromine Theobroma cacao Inhibits AcrAB-TolC efflux Not found pump of K. pneumoniae, Sal- monella Typhimurium 5 Quercetin Camellia sinensis Inhibits talinolol transport in Observed IC50 values are 97 and Caco-2 cell line via P-gp inhi- 41 μM of talinolol in absence bition in MDR family and presence of quercetin 6 Biochanin A Cicer pinnatifidum Inhibits TetK efflux pump in Not found Mycobacterium smegmatis 7 Kendarimide Haliclona caerulea Reverses P-gp mediated MDR Not found 8 Orizabin Ipomoea violacea Reverses norfloxacin resistance Not found in S. aureus 9 Phenylbutanoids Zingiber officinalis Shows potent P-gp inhibitory Not found effect on breast cancer cell line (MCF-7/ADR) and enhances daunomycin uptake 10 Chalcone
