Current Microbiology (2022) 79:330
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, bacterial, efflux, antimicrobial, pathogens, peptides, used, cell, aureus, antibiotic resistance, pumps, agents


norfloxacin resistance Not found in S. aureus 9 Phenylbutanoids Zingiber officinalis Shows potent P-gp inhibitory Not found effect on breast cancer cell line (MCF-7/ADR) and enhances daunomycin uptake 10 Chalcone Nicotiana tabacum Reverses resistance of berberine, Not found erythromycin and tetracycline in Bacillus cereus and S. aureus 11 Coumarins Angelica gigas Inhibits P-gp, MRP-2 and BCRP 2–5 μM via acting as substrate in S. aureus 12 PAβN Synthetic AdeFGH pump in A. baumannii Not found 13 Pyridoquinolines Synthetic Inhibits AcrAB-TolC in Entero- Not found bacter aerogenes 14 Chlorpromazine Synthetic Inhibits AcrB in Salmonella Not found enterica 15 DHA7, DHA 27 Synthetic Inhibits AcrB in E. coli Not found Phage Therapy rise of antibiotics in the mid of 20th century has side-lined the importance of bacteriophages as therapeutic agents. In Bacteriophages or “phages” are viruses that can infect and a review about bacteriophages, Altamirano et al., have com- replicate within bacterial cells and exclusively targets bac- pared phage therapy to antibiotics regarding different aspects teria. They form the most abundant and ubiquitous group of its function . This highlighted important points such of organisms on earth that interferes and affects microbial as the high host specificity of the phages that can be used physiology, evolution, population dynamics, and therapeu- as an advantage over antibiotics because phages would not tics . The exclusivity of these phages toward bacteria has exhibit any off-target side effects due to disturbances in the been the most important factor that renders them therapeu- microbiota. The host specificity can also turn disadvanta- by Felix d’Herelle consequently led to its use in treating sis of the infection and identification of the etiological agent bacterial infections in human patients a century ago, the to strain level. Another most important advantage of using 1 3 phages therapeutically is that, unlike antibiotics, phages will of the host, or to resist the attack of antibiotics. Thus, using always have the advantage over bacteria as they develop new virion-based enzymes such as polysaccharide depolymerases infectivity and mutate alongside their host. Furthermore, along with antibiotics can give it an extra edge to penetrate because of their abundance and genetic versatility, there are the bacteria and exert its effect. Consequently, phage-based an infinite number of sources from which they can be iso- depolymerases produced through a monophage therapy lated and efficiently molded and modified. . along with amoxicillin were used for the treatment of K. The
