Current Microbiology (2022) 79:330
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, bacterial, efflux, antimicrobial, pathogens, peptides, used, cell, aureus, antibiotic resistance, pumps, agents


from which they can be iso- depolymerases produced through a monophage therapy lated and efficiently molded and modified. . along with amoxicillin were used for the treatment of K. The therapeutic use of bacteriophages or “phage ther- pneumoniae infection, where the enzyme was attributed for apy” requires some key aspects for it to be used clinically. its extracellular matrix-degrading properties allowing better The regulatory requirement for therapeutic use constitutes penetration of the antibiotic as well as whole phage particles strictly lytic phages, confirmed antimicrobial activity against . the target pathogen, and removal of contaminating bacterial Altogether, the use of phage therapy as an efficient tool debris and endotoxins . Consequently, phages are being to fight against antibiotic resistance appears promising due extensively studied around the world for developing opti- to the multidimensional strategies provided by these phages. mized viruses or cocktails of these viruses that can be used It has been recently pointed out that the interrelationship clinically. The last decade has witnessed numerous in vitro between bacteria and phages must be understood from an and preclinical studies that are being considered to enter evolutionary perspective, as evidenced by studies conducted phase I clinical trials. These trials were based on three types in Bangladesh on the endemic cholera caused by Vibrio of administration, i.e., topical administration, oral adminis- cholerae . tration, and intravenous administration. Phage therapy has Further research is required to establish phage therapy been used to treat chronic bacterial prostatitis, a prolonged as a fore-front strategy due to the recurring resistance in bacterial infection caused by many nosocomial pathogens. bacteria attributed to evolutionary stand-offs. Phage therapy It was used against a patient with chronic bacterial prosta- promises hope in these tiring times, when the scientific com- titis caused by Gram-positive bacteria that was resistant to munity values trying out new combinations and methods. antibiotic treatment. After the phage treatment, there was Combinatorial Therapy—Engaging Multiple Targets a substantial reduction in bacterial load and resolution of the infection . Another interesting use of phages was represented in a recent work by Wang and Loh et al., where Combination of therapies for treatment of diseases has been they used phages to make A. baumannii strains sensitive well established in the clinical practice where conditions to previously resistant strains to colistin. This was done by such as HIV, tuberculosis, malaria are confronted with one co-incubating a lytic phage with the A. baumannii
