Current Microbiology (2022) 79:330
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, bacterial, efflux, antimicrobial, pathogens, peptides, used, cell, aureus, antibiotic resistance, pumps, agents


practice where conditions to previously resistant strains to colistin. This was done by such as HIV, tuberculosis, malaria are confronted with one co-incubating a lytic phage with the A. baumannii strain, or two combinations of drugs. The previous sections dis- resulting in the emergence of phage-resistant A. baumannii cussed about strategies that target unconventional mecha- which were sensitive to colistin. This aspect where the bacte- nisms of the pathogens, but combining these strategies to rial pathogen chooses to become resistant to the phages by attain a synergy to which the emergence of resistance may modifying its capsular material resulting in antibiotic sen- be negligible is an interesting approach. This approach has sitivity can be utilized in clinical settings . been followed to tackle infections by multidrug-resistant It is well established that the phage genomes encode bacteria through either antibiotic–antibiotic combination, or numerous proteins that aid in the breaching of bacterial through the combination of antibiotics with adjuvants that cell membranes so that the virus can inject their nucleic either directly target resistance mechanisms or indirectly acids into the host. Two important proteins or enzymes are enhances the effect of antibiotics by inhibiting its efflux or noteworthy during the infection phase; the virion-associated targets bacterial signaling mechanisms . Figure 2 shows peptidoglycan hydrolases (VAPGH) and the polysaccharide a schematic representation of a combination therapy that depolymerases . VAPGH is found in the base plate of can be adopted using AMPs, EPIs, and bacteriophages as the virus that locally targets the peptidoglycan of the bacte- adjuvants along with commonly used antibiotics. rial wall allowing the phage tail tube structure to embed This approach can greatly enhance the efficacy of already and eject its genomic material. Another enzyme, which is in-use antibiotics or can be used to sensitize the bacteria the polysaccharide depolymerases, targets the polysaccha- before the action of antibiotics. In the recent times, clini- ride components of the bacterial cell envelope such as the cal practice has demonstrated success in the combination of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), the extracellular matrix compo- two or more antibiotics or a combination of antibiotics with nents in biofilms, bacterial capsule, etc. This exposes the adjuvants. The combination of antibiotics or other drugs phage-recognized receptors on the bacterial cell surface, is focused on targeting multiple targets to effectively kill allowing phages to identify specific strains . The capsule the pathogen leaving less or no chance for the pathogen
