Current Microbiology (2022) 79:330
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, bacterial, efflux, antimicrobial, pathogens, peptides, used, cell, aureus, antibiotic resistance, pumps, agents


cell surface, is focused on targeting multiple targets to effectively kill allowing phages to identify specific strains . The capsule the pathogen leaving less or no chance for the pathogen to and biofilm are important virulence components of the bac- develop resistance. The combination of antibiotics can fol- teria which are utilized either to escape the defense system low three strategies including targeting different pathways, 1 3 Fig. 2 Schematic representation of the combinatorial approach using and bacteriophages, enhance the performance of the antibiotics for a combination of antibiotics or using antibiotics with appropriate treatment of drug-resistant pathogens adjuvants including antimicrobial peptides, efflux pump inhibitors, infections was done using four different antibiotics such isolate that can mostly be attributed to the modification of as isoniazid, rifampicin, ethambutol, and pyrazinamide. surface charge by the AMP . Another strategy is to inhibit different targets in the same In case of EPIs, the central role would be to sensitize the pathway such as inhibition of successive steps in folic acid resistant bacteria to antibiotics. Keeping this in mind, antibi- synthesis using the combination of sulfamethoxazole and otic hybrids such as EPI/antibiotic hybrids present a hopeful trimethoprim. A third strategy is to inhibit the same target scenario posing as next-generation agents and adjuvants to in different ways such as using streptogramins . control resistance among Gram-negative bacteria . In As previously stated, AMPs are excellent antimicrobial a study that attempted to conjugate antibiotics with EPIs, molecules that act by disrupting the bilayer structure of the tobramycin-EPI conjugates showed synergistic effect with bacterial cell membrane. Combining AMPs with conven- tetracycline antibiotics to enhance its effect and prevent its tional antibiotics can be a proficient combination therapy subsequent sequestration out of the cell by disrupting the because AMPs facilitate the entry of conventional antibiot- proton motif force, which cripples the efflux pumps resulting ics. Colistin, a cationic AMP, which is also one of the last in sensitization of multidrug-resistant P. aeruginosa . resort antibiotics has shown synergy with antibiotics such as Bacteriophages and their associated enzymes also exhibit azithromycin and has potentiated its entry into bacterial cells the potential to be used in combination therapy along with to exert its effect against multidrug-resistant Gram-negative conventional antibiotics. bacteria . Another important AMP such as daptomycin Studies have reported the use of antibiotic combinations has also demonstrated synergistic effects with ampicillin in to inhibit the cell wall formation
