Current Microbiology (2022) 79:330
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, bacterial, efflux, antimicrobial, pathogens, peptides, used, cell, aureus, antibiotic resistance, pumps, agents


bacteria . Another important AMP such as daptomycin Studies have reported the use of antibiotic combinations has also demonstrated synergistic effects with ampicillin in to inhibit the cell wall formation of Gram-positive bacteria 1 3 such as Methicilin-Resistant S. aureus MRSA. For exam- antibodies have been developed and are currently undergo- in the Gram-positive bacterial cell wall and demonstrates against nosocomial pathogens such as S. aureus and P. aer- excellent synergy with β-lactam antibiotics which resulted in uginosa, and also difficult-to-treat pathogens such as A. bau- several folds decrease in minimum inhibitory concentration mannii. A human monoclonal antibody developed as such by (MIC) of oxacillin against MRSA . The target described Trellis Biosciences disrupts the biofilm formation of mul- here is the enzyme N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphate trans- tiple bacteria by targeting the DNABII protein required for ferase encoded by the gene tarO, which is the first enzyme biofilm formation . Another product that is being devel- in the biosynthesis pathway of wall teichoic acid. Another oped by Roche is an antibody–antibiotic conjugate which compound named ticlopidine, which is an antiplatelet drug is specific to S. aureus. The human monoclonal antibody is has been shown to identify the enzyme N-acetylglucosa- designed to bind to the surface of S. aureus putting the con- mine-1-phosphate transferase as its target. Ticlopidine jugated antibiotic in close proximity that enhances the effect showed synergistic effects with cefuroxime against a range of the antibiotic . A bi-specific antibody was developed of MRSA strains which resulted in a decrease of the MIC by the company AstraZeneca PLC (formerly MedImmune), concentrations to upto 64-folds . Also, there are several MEDI3902, which targets a surface polysaccharide of P. known inhibitors of cell wall synthesis such as bacitracin, aeruginosa and affects its biofilm forming capability . teicoplanin, vancomycin, and so on, which shows synergis- Recently, a double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 2 trial tic effects with β-lactam antibiotics against Gram-positive was conducted with suvratoxumab, a human monoclonal bacterial strains . antibody capable of controlling ventilator-associated pneu- Recently, in a study, it was found that anti-virulence com- monia caused by S. aureus for the patients in Intensive care pounds such as gallium, a siderophore quencher, and fura- units with mechanical ventilators . This monoclonal none C-30, a quorum-sensing inhibitor, can aid a combina- antibody targets the pore-forming α-toxin and thus greatly tion of antibiotics demonstrating synergistic effect against reduces its toxic effect. P. aeruginosa . The
