Current Microbiology (2022) 79:330
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, bacterial, efflux, antimicrobial, pathogens, peptides, used, cell, aureus, antibiotic resistance, pumps, agents


a quorum-sensing inhibitor, can aid a combina- antibody targets the pore-forming α-toxin and thus greatly tion of antibiotics demonstrating synergistic effect against reduces its toxic effect. P. aeruginosa . The team used four clinically relevant Although many of the monoclonal antibodies are in the tobramycin to treat drug-resistant bacteria and found prom- the potential to be translated into a marketable product. ising levels of synergies between certain drug pairs. Also, Further research into the field of antibodies is required to the anti-virulence compounds acted as potent adjuvants to strengthen the hold of monoclonal antibodies against drug the antibiotics rendering them as growth inhibitors against resistance since it is less likely to contribute to the increasing certain drug-resistant strains of P. aeruginosa. Similar stud- antibiotic resistance than antibiotics themselves. ies conducted around the world on drug combinations as a Immunomodulatory Agents as Anti‑Bacterial potential source of antibiotic strategies gives us hope that in Therapeutics near future, approaches like these may lead to the alleviation of the resistance problem. Harnessing the full potential of a body’s immune system is Antibodies as Antibiotics an interesting approach in the era of antibiotic resistance. Immunomodulating agents are a promising alternative to In April 2021, WHO published a list of non-traditional antibiotics in treating infectious diseases by utilizing the antibacterials, which include alternative strategies to direct antimicrobial effector mechanisms of the immune cells such acting small molecules, and one of which is the use of as macrophages . The mechanisms through which mac- antibodies as antibiotics. Before the advent of antibiotics, rophages eliminate intracellular bacterial infections include serum antibodies were the prevalent medication for treating human antimicrobial peptides such as cathelicidin, LL-37, infectious diseases. With the onset of antibiotic resistance, nitric oxide (NO) produced by inducible NO synthase researchers are once again probing into this field and vac- (iNOS), and reactive oxygen species (ROS). These effector cination strategies to treat bacterial infectious diseases. strategies used by macrophages destroy the cell membrane Antibodies as therapeutic agents utilize the potential of integrity and interfere with the membrane forming mecha- a human body’s immune system. Human monoclonal anti- nism of the bacteria. For the treatment of tuberculosis, anti- bodies are less likely to be cleared by the body and show mycobacterial immunity in the body can be enhanced by less toxicity with a higher longevity with a typical half-life many immunomodulatory agents such as arginine, active of 21 days
