Current Microbiology (2022) 79:330
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, bacterial, efflux, antimicrobial, pathogens, peptides, used, cell, aureus, antibiotic resistance, pumps, agents


show mycobacterial immunity in the body can be enhanced by less toxicity with a higher longevity with a typical half-life many immunomodulatory agents such as arginine, active of 21 days for IgG types. Another advantage of antibod- vitamin D , 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (vitD), or histone ies is their high specificity, which makes them useful as a deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors such as sodium phenylbu- therapeutic agent that does not disrupt normal bacterial flora. tyrate (PBA). A combination of vitD + PBA has been shown Taking these advantages into account, various monoclonal to be effective against Mycobacterium tuberculosis through 1 3 the human antimicrobial peptide (LL-37) pathway . such as the cell membrane integrity and the efflux pumps, Repurposing existing drugs that modulates the immune demonstrates efficacy that might lead to victory in the bat- system for anti-tuberculosis therapy is also an interesting tle against drug-resistant strains proper schemes and trials approach that is being followed . Immunomodulatory are devised. Case studies and clinical trials in the case of drugs that have been repurposed include statins, Non-Ste- phage therapy have highlighted the importance of evolution- roidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs), Linezolid, Met- ary advantages that can be exploited for developing efficient formin, and many others. therapies and build up on the idea of combination therapies The role of gut microbiota in modulating the immune with important phages aiding the already in-use antibiotics. response of a body is an attractive approach. The commensal CRISPR‑Cas System for Combating Antibiotic microorganisms present in the digestive tract provide health Resistance benefit to the host by maintaining immune homeostasis . This is achieved through mechanisms such as engaging the toll-like receptors and pathogen-specific receptors to the Gene editing tools such as the clustered regularly inter- ligands of the commensal microorganisms, which main- spaced short palindromic repeats—CRISPR-associated tains tolerance and immune response against the pathogens (CRISPR-Cas) system have been recognized as one of the Furthermore, the metabolites of the gut microbiota have an important strategies to combat antibiotic-resistant strains. immense role in modulating a wide range of responses in The programmable nuclease protein (Cas) in the systems the human body by inducing the differentiation and main- allows targeted and sequence-specific DNA cuts, guided by tenance of lymphocytes, which are effector immune cells. RNA-based spacers (guide RNA) that are flanked by partial Short chain fatty acids (SCFAs) which includes acetate, repeats. This strategy has been used as a sequence-specific propionate,
