Current Microbiology (2022) 79:330
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, bacterial, efflux, antimicrobial, pathogens, peptides, used, cell, aureus, antibiotic resistance, pumps, agents


effector immune cells. RNA-based spacers (guide RNA) that are flanked by partial Short chain fatty acids (SCFAs) which includes acetate, repeats. This strategy has been used as a sequence-specific propionate, and butyrate, are essential metabolites synthe- therapeutic to target antibiotic resistance genes in pathogenic sized by intestinal microbiota and are formed during the strains that act by sensitizing the strains to antibiotics pre- bacterial growth process through carbohydrate utilization venting the spread plasmids harboring of resistance genes . The concentration of SCFAs depends substantially on . The mechanism of action of CRISPR-Cas system can the diet and the state of the microbiota. The SCFAs play an be understood in three stages that include adaptation, expres- important role in maintaining the proper balance in cases of sion, and interference . The integration of the invad- microbial dysbiosis, i.e., the imbalance of the gut microbiota ing DNA into the CRISPR locus of the host genome occurs leading to disease conditions of the intestine.. In cases of during the adaption stage and then followed by expression of microbial infections, SCFAs can directly act by diffusing the pre-crRNA and processing of the crRNA from the flank- through the membrane of the bacteria at low pH where it is ing spacer sequences during the expression stage. During lipid soluble and once it is inside it disrupts the ionic balance the interference stage, crRNA along with the Cas proteins, . SCFAs like butyrate and acetate also have an effect detect the invading DNA sequences and produce double- on pathogen virulence by lowering the pH, which reduces stranded breaks. Based on the molecular characteristics and flagellar motility and the ability to form biofilms. Also, it has evolutionary relationships, the CRISPR-Cas system is clas- been observed that in Salmonella strains, SCFAs impair the sified into two classes containing six types and 33 subtypes production of extracellular components that are required for . The class 1 contains multiple Cas proteins which medi- biofilm formation. It was also observed that butyrate down- ate the interference, compared to the single, large, multid- regulates genes required for invasion and translocation from omain crRNA-binding Cas proteins in class 2 (Cas9, Cas12, the intestine to the bloodstream of Salmonella strains . Cas13, etc.). In the era where infectious diseases are getting stronger The different ways in which CRISPR-Cas can be used and more resilient to conventional therapies, strengthening to combat antibiotic resistance include the
