Current Microbiology (2022) 79:330
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, bacterial, efflux, antimicrobial, pathogens, peptides, used, cell, aureus, antibiotic resistance, pumps, agents


the era where infectious diseases are getting stronger The different ways in which CRISPR-Cas can be used and more resilient to conventional therapies, strengthening to combat antibiotic resistance include the following: (i) the immune system of the body seems to be a promising by targeting the Cas proteins to species-specific sequences endeavor. Microbial metabolites of the gut such as SCFAs so that only infectious bacteria can be targeted, reducing represent a hopeful scenario but a deeper understanding of the loss of normal microbiota, (ii) through direction of the the biological pathways is required for the development of system to cleave drug-resistant genes which eliminate the concrete therapies. Meanwhile, prebiotics and probiotics that bacteria harboring them, thus protecting the wild and sus- strengthen the gut microflora and its metabolites appear to ceptible ones, and (iii) the system can be used to modify or be promising for tackling resilient infections. silence resistance gene harboring plasmids to re-sensitize Together, researchers around the world along with policy the bacteria to the antibiotics . These various ways makers of numerous countries are acknowledging the dan- of using CRISPR-Cas in preclinical studies demonstrate the gers of antibiotic resistance and are trying their best to come potential of the technology for extensive clinical use after up with innovative solutions that can mitigate the problem. passing through rigorous and transparent clinical testing. Targeting these unconventional internal pathogen targets, The main concern for developing this gene-editing tool as 1 3 an antimicrobial therapy is its delivery into the bacterial 1996, has found tremendous applications in the era of antibi- system. One of the ways this can be achieved is through otic resistance. PNAs are a group of compounds that interact combination with bacteriophages which further potentiates with its complementary nucleic acids more strongly than a specificity of the strategy . CRISPR-Cas9 system was natural nucleic acid and have a modified sugar-phosphate integrated into a temperate phage specific to S. aureus that backbone where the sugar and the phosphate bonds have has its genome trimmed off of virulence genes but main- been replaced with repeating N-(2-amino- ethyl) glycine taining the host specificity. This greatly increased the speci- units that are connected through methylene carbonyl link- ficity of the CRISPR-Cas9 antimicrobial against S. aureus ers. They act as a programmable mimic of DNA that can be . Phage therapeutics along with CRISPR-Cas system introduced in the bacterial cells to specifically silence
