Current Microbiology (2022) 79:330
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, bacterial, efflux, antimicrobial, pathogens, peptides, used, cell, aureus, antibiotic resistance, pumps, agents


against S. aureus ers. They act as a programmable mimic of DNA that can be . Phage therapeutics along with CRISPR-Cas system introduced in the bacterial cells to specifically silence genes have shown potential in laboratory studies but need to be through mechanisms such as transcriptional arrest, P-loop a study by Cobb et al., engineered temperate phages with and ftsZ gene controlled the biofilm formation and bacte- integrated CRISPR-Cas9 machinery were helpful in reduc- rial growth in E. faecalis using anti-sense PNAs . The ing soft tissue infection by S. aureus in mouse models with PNA was designed to target the start codons of the respective osteomyelitis and soft tissue infection . In an insight- genes for translational arrest. The RNA binding was con- ful study, Selle et al., repurposed bacterial endogenous type firmed through northern-blotting and the PNA was delivered I-B CRISPR-Cas (CRISPR-Cas3) in Clostridium defficile (C. inside the bacteria by electroporation method. In another defficile) into self-targeting CRISPR that targets the bacte- example, the gene adeB, controlling the RND type efflux rial chromosomal genome . This was possible due to pumps, was targeted using the anti-sense PNA technology an engineered bacteriophage carrying a bacterial genome that controls the RND type efflux pumps which provide targeting CRISPR RNAs. This technique was useful in resistance to ciprofloxacin . PNA treatment significantly reducing C. defficile infection in both in vitro and in mouse increased the susceptibility to ciprofloxacin where the anti- models. In an aim to deliver CRISPR antimicrobials effi- sense PNA was responsible for the translational arrest of ciently, Rodrigues et al., used pheromone-responsive con- the mRNA transcript of the gene. The engineered PNA was jugative plasmids incorporating type II CRISPR-Cas system delivered through electroporation. to successfully transform Enterococcus faecalis (E. faecalis) One of the main constraints of using PNAs as antimicro- targeting specific antibiotic resistance genes . The effi- bial agents is their delivery into the bacterial cells due to its cacy of the plasmid containing the CRISPR-Cas system was low solubility in water and high molecular weight. This limi- maintained in animal models where the occurrence of E. tation is mostly overcome by modifying the oligonucleotide faecalis was reduced in the murine intestine. backbone to increase hydrophilicity or by integrating with The future of deploying CRISPR-Cas systems as antimi- molecules that can penetrate cells that can act as transport- crobials seems to be promising, but as any other
