Current Microbiology (2022) 79:330
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, bacterial, efflux, antimicrobial, pathogens, peptides, used, cell, aureus, antibiotic resistance, pumps, agents


by integrating with The future of deploying CRISPR-Cas systems as antimi- molecules that can penetrate cells that can act as transport- crobials seems to be promising, but as any other technology, ers. Most studies have integrated cell-penetrating peptides it comes with its own hurdles. The major limitation faced by or cationic peptides with PNA to deliver it into the bacte- this technology is the specificity of the guide RNA or crRNA rial cells. Barkowski et al., studied the efficiency of various that ultimately defines the action of the system. Thus, further cell-penetrating peptides linked to anti-gyrA PNA on the clinical trials are required focusing on the specificity of the virulence of Streptococcus pyogenes where it was found that system to a particular population of bacteria in a complex HIV-1 TAT, oligolysine (K8), and (RXR)4XB peptide-cou- microflora environment, to prove the efficacy of this system pled anti-gyrA PNAs efficiently abolished bacterial growth in actual healthcare settings. in vitro . Abushahba et al., also tested five different cell- penetrating peptides for their efficiency in delivering PNAs Peptide Nucleic Acids as Sequence‑Specific into Listeria monocytogenes and in Caenorhabditis elegans Antimicrobials infection model . Moreover, the antimicrobial peptides and other cell-penetrating peptides have been shown to be Targeted and specific action against drug-resistant patho- very effective in crossing the cell membrane and delivering gens has been the goal for the development of an efficient the antimicrobials to exert its effect on intracellular patho- antimicrobial therapy. Although, this has been achieved to gens . some extent using gene editing tools such as Zinc Finger Although PNAs deliver promising scenarios in devel- nucleases, CRIPSR, and engineered bacteriophages, the effi- oping narrow-spectrum antimicrobials, limitations such as tial. Keeping this in mind, another narrow-spectrum therapy and clearance from the body still need to be addressed in the has been developed that uses peptide nucleic acids (PNAs) coming future to develop this technology as an ultra-narrow- as bactericidal agents . PNAs, although introduced in spectrum antimicrobial therapeutics. 1 3 Conclusion Declarations Since the emergence of resistance, the focus has been to Conflict of Interest The authors declare that they have no conflict of interest. sensitize the pathogens to antibiotics and stop the emer- gence of new resistant strains. This course has led to the Ethical Approval Not applicable. identification of numerous targets in the pathogens that were not considered in the golden age of antibiotics such Consent for Publication
