Current Microbiology (2022) 79:330
KEYWORDS: resistance, antibiotics, antibiotic, bacteria, bacterial, efflux, antimicrobial, pathogens, peptides, used, cell, aureus, antibiotic resistance, pumps, agents


course has led to the Ethical Approval Not applicable. identification of numerous targets in the pathogens that were not considered in the golden age of antibiotics such Consent for Publication Not applicable. as the cell membrane integrity, efflux pumps, and subse- quent targets in a single or multiple metabolic pathways. Viruses such as the bacteriophages are being extensively studied so that their inherent ability to specifically infect References and kill a bacterium can be harnessed and turned into an efficient therapy. Interesting studies have been conducted 1. Dcosta VM, King CE, Kalan L, Morar M, Sung WWL, Schwarz on the field of antibodies as therapeutic agents along C, Froese D, Zazula G, Calmels F, Debruyne R, Golding GB, Poinar HN, Wright GD (2011) Antibiotic resistance is ancient. with immunomodulatory agents which have highlighted Nature 477:457–461 the importance of the body’s immune system in combat- 2. Nesme J, Simonet P (2015) The soil resistome: a critical review on ting serious bacterial infections. Ultra-narrow-spectrum antibiotic resistance origins, ecology and dissemination potential antimicrobials have also been developed using the gene in telluric bacteria. Environ Microbiol 17(4):913–930. oi. org/1 0.1 111/1 462-2 920.1 2631 editing tools such as CRISPR-Cas system to specifically 3. Lopatkin AJ, Bening SC, Manson AL, Stokes JM, Kohanski MA, silence the resistance genes in the pathogens. PNAs which Badran AH, Earl AM, Cheney NJ, Yang JH, Collins JJ (2021) are oligomers like DNA with a high binding affinity toward Clinically relevant mutations in core metabolic genes confer complementary DNA have also been used to specifically antibiotic resistance. Science. oi.o rg/1 0.1 126/S CIENC E. ABA086 2 arrest the expression of virulent genes and genes confer- 4. Andersson DI, Hughes D (2011) Persistence of antibiotic ring resistance in pathogens. The clinical trials and case resistance in bacterial populations. FEMS Microbiol Rev studies supporting these new approaches have also been 35(5):901–911 the source of hope among scientist in the resistance era. 5. Laxminarayan R, Duse A, Wattal C, Zaidi AKM, Wertheim HFL, Sumpradit N, Vlieghe E, Hara GL, Gould IM, Goossens H, Greko Moreover, the researchers are also keen on unearthing C, So AD, Bigdeli M, Tomson G, Woodhouse W, Ombaka E, novel species from the previously unseen and uncharted Peralta AQ, Qamar FN, Mir F, Kariuki S, Bhutta ZA, Coates territories on land and sea. They have also tried out the A, Bergstrom R, Wright GD, Brown ED, Cars O (2013)
