Evaluation and Treatment of Gender-Dysphoric/Gender Incongruent Adults
KEYWORDS: pubmed, therapy, transgender, transwomen, cancer, transmen, hormonal, risk, gender, hormonal therapy, people, breast, testosterone, sex, bone


ABSTRACT Gender dysphoria refers to the suffering due to an incongruence between one’s sex assigned at birth and one’s self-perceived gender. Primary care physicians often play an important role in diagnosis and initiation of treatment of gender dysphoria. However, gender dysphoria is preferentially diagnosed by a specialized psychologist or psychiatrist. This does not imply that gender dysphoria in itself is a mental disorder, but co-morbidity needing attention, is frequently present. The prevalence of transgender people who receive medical treatment has steeply increased in the last decades. The current prevalence is estimated at 1:2,800 for transwomen (male sex assigned at birth, female gender identity) and 1:5,200 for transmen (female sex assigned at birth, male gender identity). Treatment of transgender people often includes gender-affirming hormonal therapy and/or surgery, and is optimally provided by a multidisciplinary team consisting of psychologists, endocrinologists, plastic surgeons, gynecologists, urologists, otorhinolaryngologists, and/or dermatologists. Medical treatment usually improves the quality of life of transgender people, but might also have side-effects such as increased risk for cardiovascular disease or hormone-sensitive tumors. There is still little known about the optimal therapy (for specific transgender subpopulations) and its long-term side-effects. Nowadays, guidelines are mainly based on clinical experience instead of evidence. However, transgender medicine is a growing field and the increasing number of good quality studies are helping to improve care of transgender people. In this contribution we mainly focus on what is known about the side-effects of hormonal therapy. In addition, we provide information about surgical and fertility preservation options for transgender people. We conclude this contribution with remarks about special conditions such as older age and unsupervised hormone use. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Gender identity is the personal sense of one's own gender. A significant incongruence between one’s physical phenotype and one’s gender identity is defined as gender dysphoria. While care for transgender people has long been based on a binary understanding of gender (male versus female), the existence of non-binary or gender queer genders is getting increasing attention. Non-binary or gender queer people identify with a gender that is neither exclusively male nor female, but is composed of both, oscillates between genders, is situated beyond the binary, or rejects the binary ( 1 ). Gender dysphoria is usually diagnosed by a specialized psychologist, which does not imply that it is a mental disorder per se.
