Evaluation and Treatment of Gender-Dysphoric/Gender Incongruent Adults
KEYWORDS: pubmed, therapy, transgender, transwomen, cancer, transmen, hormonal, risk, gender, hormonal therapy, people, breast, testosterone, sex, bone


the binary, or rejects the binary ( 1 ). Gender dysphoria is usually diagnosed by a specialized psychologist, which does not imply that it is a mental disorder per se. People who have a male sex assigned at birth but have developed a female gender identity are called transwomen and people who have a female sex assigned at birth but experience a male gender identity are called transmen. The prevalence of transgender people who seek medical treatment has dramatically increased in the last years, and a recent Dutch study estimated a prevalence of 1:2,800 for transwomen and 1:5,200 for transmen ( 2 ). While the etiology is complex and probably multifactorial, the most widely believed hypothesis is that transgender people have experienced a sex-atypical differentiation of the brain during fetal development ( 3 , 4 ). To many physicians, transgender medicine is a novel area of medicine. Most physicians need intensive interaction with a transgender individual to empathize the suffering, and to arrive at the insight that hormonal and surgical treatment might alleviate gender dysphoria-related distress. It is usually assumed that medical interventions can only be justified when objective, identifiable pathological processes account for human suffering. The role that biological factors play in the development of gender identity is still not solidly established but an increasingly number of reports provide evidence that androgens play a role in the development of gender identity. The association is not absolute, and the information is not robust enough to draw solid conclusions. Nevertheless, it has been demonstrated that gender-affirming hormonal therapy and/or surgery, which is only recommended in people with well-documented gender dysphoria ( 5 ), contributes to an improved well-being ( 6 ). Medical treatment is preferably provided by a multidisciplinary team consisting of psychologists, endocrinologists, plastic surgeons, gynecologists, urologists, otorhinolaryngologists, and/or dermatologists. Transgender people can suffer in many ways. Some concerns are intrinsic to their situation and cannot be avoided. Others take the form of accumulating small indignities that arise from a simple lack of sensitivity and understanding to their predicament. For instance, transgender people experience widespread discrimination in healthcare, housing, and employment ( 7 ). As a result transgender people have a higher risk of psychiatric diseases such a (severe) depression and anxiety disorders ( 8 ).The implementation of policies to ensure correct conduct by all health professionals involved in the care of people with gender dysphoria, would be a considerate
