Evaluation and Treatment of Gender-Dysphoric/Gender Incongruent Adults
KEYWORDS: pubmed, therapy, transgender, transwomen, cancer, transmen, hormonal, risk, gender, hormonal therapy, people, breast, testosterone, sex, bone


and anxiety disorders ( 8 ).The implementation of policies to ensure correct conduct by all health professionals involved in the care of people with gender dysphoria, would be a considerate gesture and build trust. When providing transgender care, physicians are confronted with a lack of systematically and accurately collected data. Transgender people are not a well-defined group, and show considerable heterogeneity, for instance in age of onset, in the degree of suffering, and in the wish for treatment. The attention that transgender people receive in medicine is certainly improving, however transgender people still experience health disparities. There is a dearth of research and evidence-based guidelines for treatment, and the specific health needs for transgender people are understudied. It is problematic to include sufficient numbers of participants to perform statistically robust studies with regard to the best transgender hormonal therapy, and the long-term side-effects of treatment. Nowadays, physicians with extensive clinical experience have drafted guidelines based primarily on empiric observation. Fortunately, the number of good quality studies is currently increasing. HORMONAL THERAPY In transwomen, hormonal therapy usually consists of estrogens ± antiandrogens (e.g. cyproterone acetate, spironolactone, or GnRH analogues) ( 9 , 10 ). Estrogen in the form of estradiol is recommended to minimalize the risk of venous thrombosis and cardiovascular disease. Since progestogens, other than progestogenic antiandrogens, have not been proven to have an additional effect on feminization in transwomen, they are usually not recommended ( 5 , 9 , 10 ), although they might have beneficial effects in cisgender women ( 11 ). In transmen, hormonal therapy usually consists of testosterone only ( 10 ). See Table 1 for an overview of the hormonal options for transwomen, and Table 2 for the hormonal options for transmen. For details on the hormonal regimens for transwomen and transmen the Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guideline is an excellent source of information ( 10 ). Table 1. Hormonal Regimens Regularly Used in Transwomen View in own window Estrogens Recommended Dose Oral estradiol 2-6 mg daily Intramuscular estradiol valerate/cypionate 10-20 mg/1-2 weeks Estradiol patch* 50-100 mcg/24 hours Estradiol gel* 0.75 mg-2.25 mcg daily Antiandrogens** Cyproterone acetate 10-50 mg daily Spironolactone 50-200 mg daily GnRH analogue Varies per preparation * Transdermal preparations are recommended in transwomen aged ≥40 years or in those with an increased cardiovascular risk ** Antiandrogens are discontinued after orchiectomy Table 2. Hormonal Regimens Regularly Used in Transmen View in own window
