Evaluation and Treatment of Gender-Dysphoric/Gender Incongruent Adults
KEYWORDS: pubmed, therapy, transgender, transwomen, cancer, transmen, hormonal, risk, gender, hormonal therapy, people, breast, testosterone, sex, bone


transwomen aged ≥40 years or in those with an increased cardiovascular risk ** Antiandrogens are discontinued after orchiectomy Table 2. Hormonal Regimens Regularly Used in Transmen View in own window Testosterone Recommended dose Intramuscular enanthate or cypionate* Intramuscular mixed esters (Sustanon®) Intramuscular undecanoate 100–200 mg/2 weeks 250 mg/2-3 weeks 1000 mg/12 weeks OR 750 mg / 8 weeks** Testosterone gel 25-100 mg/day Testosterone patch 2 or 4 mg/day Preparation availability will differ between countries * Due to associated serum testosterone peaks, these injections may not the best option for transmen who develop polycythemia ( 12 ) ** The above are the conventional dosages for cismen. To virilize transmen 50-75% of these dosages are usually sufficient Effects of Hormonal Therapy Transwomen In transwomen, hormonal therapy induces feminization such as breast growth, skin softness, fat redistribution, and a decrease of body hair ( 9 , 10 ). Figure 1 shows the expected effects of hormonal therapy in transwomen, and the period over which achievement of maximum effects could be expected ( 9 , 10 , 13 ). Most of the hormone-induced effects start within the first months of treatment. It is important to realize that transwomen might not achieve the desired breast size; one year of hormonal therapy in transwomen usually results in less than an AAA cup size ( 13 ). As a result, many transwomen choose for breast augmentation surgery ( 14 ). It is also important to note that for complete permanent removal of (facial) hair, additional laser skin treatments are required. Furthermore, hormonal therapy does not induce voice changes. Therefore, transwomen who desire raising of their voice pitch may benefit from referral to a speech therapist ( 10 ). Figure 1. Hormone Effects and the Term of Maximum Expected Effects in Transwomen Transmen In transmen, hormonal therapy induces masculinization such as an increase in facial and body hair, an increase in muscle mass and strength, a masculinized voice, and a cessation of the menstruation. Figure 2 shows the expected effects of hormonal therapy in transmen, and the term that maximum effects could be expected ( 10 ). Most of the hormone-induced effects start within the first months of treatment. In most cases the menses cease during testosterone therapy. However, some transmen who experience persistent vaginal bleeding need additional therapy such as the progestin lynesterol or GnRH analogues, which suppress gonadotropin secretion. Figure 2. Hormone Effects and Term of
