Evaluation and Treatment of Gender-Dysphoric/Gender Incongruent Adults
KEYWORDS: pubmed, therapy, transgender, transwomen, cancer, transmen, hormonal, risk, gender, hormonal therapy, people, breast, testosterone, sex, bone


However, some transmen who experience persistent vaginal bleeding need additional therapy such as the progestin lynesterol or GnRH analogues, which suppress gonadotropin secretion. Figure 2. Hormone Effects and Term of Maximum Expected Effects in Transmen Hormonal Effects on Bone Health Before puberty, the size and volume of the skeleton are similar in the two sexes. But upon the rise of androgens during puberty, a higher peak bone mass is attained in boys than in girls. Bone mass accrual, bone growth and maintenance of skeletal integrity in adulthood are critically determined by sex hormone production. In both sexes, hypogonadism leads to loss of bone. In men a significant role of estrogens in bone metabolism has been demonstrated. It is of note that testosterone is partially aromatized to estradiol, and it is well established that estradiol also plays a pivotal role in the bone health of men ( 15 , 16 ). These mechanisms underscore that hormonal therapy in transgender people will affect bone metabolism. Transwomen Unexpectedly, transwomen have a lower bone mineral density than controls before starting with hormonal therapy. This might be explained by a less active lifestyle and/or a lower vitamin D status ( 17 , 18 ). As remarked above, in both sexes’ estrogens are important in the maintenance of bone health in adulthood. Initial studies examining the effect of long‐term hormonal therapy on bone mineral density showed contradictory results. However, most of these studies were small cross-sectional studies in which a baseline difference in bone mineral density was not taken into account ( 19 – 21 ). The most recent cohort study in transwomen showed that hormonal therapy does not have negative effects on bone mineral density, and that the lower bone mineral density in transwomen found in previous studies is solely based on a baseline lower bone mineral density ( 18 ). Therefore, it would be worthwhile to give lifestyle advice regarding physical exercise, adequate vitamin D status, and calcium intake to transwomen. In postmenopausal women, bone mineral density depends on estrogens derived from aromatization of ovarian androgen production ( 22 ). Many transwomen have undergone orchiectomy in the process of their transition. Their status could probably be compared with a surgically-induced menopause in a ciswoman. Women with a surgically-induced menopause experience rapid bone loss during the first five years after oophorectomy. Based on this information, it has become clear that complete discontinuation of hormonal therapy
