Evaluation and Treatment of Gender-Dysphoric/Gender Incongruent Adults
KEYWORDS: pubmed, therapy, transgender, transwomen, cancer, transmen, hormonal, risk, gender, hormonal therapy, people, breast, testosterone, sex, bone


Women with a surgically-induced menopause experience rapid bone loss during the first five years after oophorectomy. Based on this information, it has become clear that complete discontinuation of hormonal therapy in transwomen above the age of 50 leads to a profound loss of bone strength. Therefore, it is advisable to not discontinue estrogen therapy in older transwomen ( 23 ). Transmen In contrast to transwomen, transmen show no lower bone mineral density before starting hormonal therapy ( 24 , 25 ). Furthermore, no negative effects of testosterone therapy on bone mineral density have been found ( 18 , 20 , 24 ). Hormonal Effects on Cardiovascular Health Cardiovascular disease is a prominent cause of morbidity and mortality in both women and men. Sex is known to affect one’s risk for cardiovascular disease. Men have a higher (age-adjusted) risk of strokes and acute coronary events than women ( 26 – 28 ). Strokes are 33% more incident in men than in women ( 28 ), and acute coronary events 172% ( 29 ). In addition, during reproductive age, women have a 100% higher risk of venous thromboembolic events than men ( 30 , 31 ). These data suggest that sex hormones play a role in the occurrence of cardiovascular events. Based on this information, it is surprising that recent studies found that estrogen therapy (without progestogen) increases the risk for developing strokes in menopausal women ( 32 ). There is also evidence that suggests a relationship between testosterone therapy and an increased risk of cardiovascular events ( 33 – 35 ). If exogenous sex hormones indeed have impact on the cardiovascular system, this might have consequences for transgender people receiving hormonal therapy. At the Amsterdam University Medical Center, the Netherlands, we have analyzed the development of cardiovascular disease in the population of the Gender Clinic. The Gender Clinic started in 1972 and there is now a large cohort of transgender people being followed-up including a growing number of older transgender people. The findings are summarized below. Transwomen Upon analysis of our transgender population in 1989 and in 1997 ( 36 , 37 ), cardiovascular disease, other than venous thromboembolism, was not increased in transwomen compared to cismen. However, the most recent evidence from 2011 and 2018 shows that transwomen receiving hormonal therapy have an increased risk for strokes and venous thromboembolism (but not acute coronary events) compared to cismen ( 38
