Evaluation and Treatment of Gender-Dysphoric/Gender Incongruent Adults
KEYWORDS: pubmed, therapy, transgender, transwomen, cancer, transmen, hormonal, risk, gender, hormonal therapy, people, breast, testosterone, sex, bone


evidence from 2011 and 2018 shows that transwomen receiving hormonal therapy have an increased risk for strokes and venous thromboembolism (but not acute coronary events) compared to cismen ( 38 , 39 ). The current estimated incidence rate for strokes in transwomen on hormonal therapy is 127 per 100,000 person-years, which is 80% higher than in cismen. The current estimated incidence rate for venous thromboembolic events is 320 per 100,000 person-years, which is 355% higher than in cismen ( 38 ). While the increased cardiovascular risk in transwomen was initially attributed to the usage of ethinylestradiol, recent studies found that transwomen who use other types of estrogens also have an increased risk for strokes and venous thromboembolism ( 38 – 40 ). The hypercoagulable effect of hormonal therapy ( 41 ) may be one of the mediators of the increased cardiovascular risk in transwomen. Possibly, venous and arterial cardiovascular side-effects become more prominent past the age of 40-50 years, and in people with cardiovascular risk factors. While strong evidence is currently lacking, transdermal estradiol might be preferred over oral estrogens in these transwomen ( 9 , 42 , 43 ). In addition, one should be aware that progestogenic antiandrogens (e.g. cyproterone acetate) may further increase one’s risk for venous thromboembolism ( 44 ), and should therefore be continued no longer than necessary. Modifiable cardiovascular risk factors such as lipid concentrations, glucose concentrations, and blood pressure should be regularly monitored and treated in accordance with guidelines for ciswomen. Transmen As in transwomen, first analyses from our center did not show an increased risk of cardiovascular disease in transmen using testosterone ( 36 , 37 , 45 ). However, the most recent analysis shows an increased risk for acute coronary events in transmen receiving testosterone, with a current estimated incidence rate of 100 per 100,000 person-years, which is 269% higher than the rate in ciswomen ( 38 ). The increased risk of acute coronary events in transmen receiving testosterone may be (partly) explained by the testosterone-induced combination of increases in hematocrit, thromboxane, triglycerides, and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and a decrease in plasma high-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations ( 35 , 46 , 47 ). Although, the design of the study made it impossible to draw any conclusions about a causal relationship we recommend to regularly monitor cardiovascular risk factors in transmen on testosterone therapy. Hormonal Effects on Tumor Risk Malignant neoplasms are the
