Evaluation and Treatment of Gender-Dysphoric/Gender Incongruent Adults
KEYWORDS: pubmed, therapy, transgender, transwomen, cancer, transmen, hormonal, risk, gender, hormonal therapy, people, breast, testosterone, sex, bone


to draw any conclusions about a causal relationship we recommend to regularly monitor cardiovascular risk factors in transmen on testosterone therapy. Hormonal Effects on Tumor Risk Malignant neoplasms are the second leading cause of death worldwide ( 48 ). The risk for certain types of tumors differs between men and women. While this is obvious for neoplasms that develop in sex-specific organs such as the ovaries or the prostate, it is also the case for other types of tumors such as those of the meninges ( 49 ) and thyroid gland ( 50 ). Some of these differences are attributed to the exposure of sex hormones. Combined hormonal therapy in postmenopausal women has been found to increase the risk of breast cancer and death from lung cancer ( 51 ). In women with polycystic ovary syndrome a higher risk for endometrial cancer has been described, which is probably explained by the prolonged endometrial exposure to unopposed estrogen that results from anovulation ( 52 ). Testosterone therapy in hypogonadal men is not clearly associated with an increased cancer risk, but breast cancer risk in prostate cancer patients who receive estrogen therapy seems 3.91 times higher than in prostate cancer patients not receiving estrogen therapy ( 53 ). If exogenous sex hormones indeed are able to induce cell proliferation, this might have consequences for transgender people receiving hormonal therapy. It is good to keep in mind that transwomen and transmen remain susceptible to cancers of reproductive organs that are no longer in alignment with their gender. For example, postsurgical transwomen, and attending physicians, might not recognize their persisting risk of prostate cancer (the prostate is not removed during vaginoplasty). In addition, transmen who have not undergone removal of the uterus still have risk for cervical cancer. It is also important to realize that transgender people may opt out of cancer screening and examinations because of emotional or physical distress associated with the discordance between their experienced gender and their birth assigned sex. To date, large-scale studies investigating neoplasms in transgender people are scarce and the literature mainly consists of case reports. One of the first reviews was presented in 2008 ( 54 ), and an extensive, high quality review appeared in 2017 ( 55 ). A cautious comparison of the two reports helps us to provide insight into the neoplasm-related morbidity and mortality in transgender people. Transwomen Breast Cancer Estrogen in combination
