Evaluation and Treatment of Gender-Dysphoric/Gender Incongruent Adults
KEYWORDS: pubmed, therapy, transgender, transwomen, cancer, transmen, hormonal, risk, gender, hormonal therapy, people, breast, testosterone, sex, bone


( 55 ). A cautious comparison of the two reports helps us to provide insight into the neoplasm-related morbidity and mortality in transgender people. Transwomen Breast Cancer Estrogen in combination with antiandrogen therapy in transwomen stimulate the development of breast lobules, ducts, and acini which are histologically identical to those of ciswomen ( 56 ). While for a long time it was believed that the risk of breast cancer in transwomen receiving hormonal therapy was not higher than those of men ( 57 , 58 ), most recent evidence show that transwomen receiving hormonal therapy do have a 46-fold higher risk for breast cancer compared to men ( 59 ). As became clear in the Women’s Health Initiative study, addition of progestin to estrogen leads to an increase of the risk of breast cancer in women ( 60 ). Although evidence regarding breast cancer and the usage of the progestogenic cyproterone acetate is lacking, the above described data suggest that cyproterone acetate should be continued no longer than necessary. In addition, based on the most recent study that shows a much higher risk of breast cancer in transwomen compared to men, it is reasonable to recommend transwomen on hormonal therapy to participate in population-based breast cancer screening programs ( 9 ). Prostate Cancer While in the past, estrogens have been used to treat prostate cancer, estrogen and its related compounds have also been suggested as potential causative agents ( 61 ). Current literature, suggests that prostate cancer is very rare among transwomen. The few cases that have been reported in transwomen were in those who had not been screened for prostate cancer before starting hormonal therapy. Consequently, it remained unclear whether the prostate cancer was already present before hormonal therapy had been initiated ( 62 ). While prostate cancer has been rarely reported, underdiagnosis is possible due to lack of close prostate monitoring. Based on available evidence it does not seem necessary to screen transwomen in a different way to cismen, for which population-based screening is not recommended. But similarly, a transwoman with a first-degree male relative with prostate cancer should be made aware of her increased risk and prostate cancer [PSA] testing should be discussed to allow informed decision making. However, when interpreting PSA values in this context, it has to be kept in mind that suppression of testosterone by antiandrogens or due to gonadectomy lowers PSA values. A
