Evaluation and Treatment of Gender-Dysphoric/Gender Incongruent Adults
KEYWORDS: pubmed, therapy, transgender, transwomen, cancer, transmen, hormonal, risk, gender, hormonal therapy, people, breast, testosterone, sex, bone


making. However, when interpreting PSA values in this context, it has to be kept in mind that suppression of testosterone by antiandrogens or due to gonadectomy lowers PSA values. A cross-sectional study of Wierckx et al. ( 63 ) found median PSA levels of 0.003 ng/mL with an interquartile range of 0.03 to 0.09 in a group of 50 postoperative transwomen using hormonal therapy on an average of 10 years. Therefore a serum level of PSA >1.0 ng/mL may already be a reason for suspicion in transwomen ( 64 ). Prolactinoma Serum prolactin concentrations usually rise slightly in response to estrogen administration and more so by cyproterone acetate ( 65 , 66 ). Based on case reports, it was initially believed that prolactin concentrations in transwomen had to be regularly monitored because of their increased risk for prolactinomas. Surprisingly, a very recent cohort study suggests that the occurrence of prolactinomas in transwomen using hormonal therapy is not higher than that in ciswomen, and that regular prolactin checks are not necessary ( 67 ). However, cyproterone acetate should be continued no longer than necessary. Meningioma Several meningiomas have been reported in transwomen. The current estimated incidence rate of this type of tumor is 33 per 100,000 person-years. This incidence rate is 4 times higher than the incidence rate in ciswomen and 12 times higher than the incidence rate in cismen ( 67 , 68 ). It has been suggested that the occurrence of meningiomas in transwomen is mainly related to cyproterone acetate usage as progesterone receptors are abundantly expressed in human meningiomas ( 67 ). Since the occurrence of meningiomas is still rare in transwomen, regular screening for this type of tumor seems not necessary. It is recommended to continue cyproterone acetate no longer than necessary. Other Types of Cancer As sexually transmitted infections may be more prevalent in transwomen, tumors related to sexually transmitted infections, such as Kaposi sarcoma or anal cancer, may also occur more often. Indeed, disproportionately high incidences of these types of tumors have been found in the transgender population ( 55 , 69 ). Some case reports have been published on cancer in surgically constructed organs like the neo-vagina in transwomen ( 70 , 71 ). While the incidence of these types of tumors seem to be very low it is important to be aware of this possibility. Transmen Breast Cancer Cases of breast cancer have
