Evaluation and Treatment of Gender-Dysphoric/Gender Incongruent Adults
KEYWORDS: pubmed, therapy, transgender, transwomen, cancer, transmen, hormonal, risk, gender, hormonal therapy, people, breast, testosterone, sex, bone


While the incidence of these types of tumors seem to be very low it is important to be aware of this possibility. Transmen Breast Cancer Cases of breast cancer have been reported in transmen before mastectomy ( 59 , 72 , 73 ). It is important to know that because of cosmetic reasons not all glandular tissue is removed during a mastectomy in transmen. Indeed, several cases of breast cancer have been reported in transmen who already had received mastectomy ( 59 , 73 – 75 ). The incidence of breast cancer in transmen who have received mastectomy seems higher than in cismen, but much lower than in ciswomen ( 59 ). While physicians and transmen have to be aware of their risk of breast carcinoma after mastectomy, it seems unnecessary for transmen to participate in the screening programs for women. However, for transmen with a genetic predisposition for breast cancer, more radical forms of mastectomy could be considered. Endometrial Cancer Not all transmen choose to remove their uterus. Menstruation usually ceases in transmen receiving testosterone therapy. Testosterone can be converted into estradiol, which may induce proliferation of the endometrium. These mechanisms may induce a higher risk of endometrial cancer in transmen. Women with polycystic ovary syndrome who do not menstruate and suffer from hyperestrogenism, have a thicker endometrium and a higher risk of endometrial cancer ( 76 ). It is also possible that the risk for endometrial cancer in transmen using testosterone is lower due to complete atrophy of the endometrium ( 55 ). There is currently only 1 case of endometrial cancer reported in a transman using testosterone ( 77 ). But it is important to know that, until recently, many countries required removal of female sex organs before transmen could change their sex on the birth certificate. Therefore, long-term follow-up data about testosterone receiving transmen with a uterus are lacking. This makes it impossible to draw hard conclusions. Nevertheless, in transmen with non-cyclic vaginal blood loss, we recommend to perform a vaginal ultrasound. Cervical Cancer Transmen in whom the uterus has not been removed have a risk of cervical carcinoma. Human papilloma virus is the most important risk factor for developing cervix carcinoma. Studies in ciswomen show that testosterone may also be a risk factor ( 78 ). To date, only 2 cases of cervical carcinoma in transmen have been described ( 77 , 79 ). Again,
