Evaluation and Treatment of Gender-Dysphoric/Gender Incongruent Adults
KEYWORDS: pubmed, therapy, transgender, transwomen, cancer, transmen, hormonal, risk, gender, hormonal therapy, people, breast, testosterone, sex, bone


that testosterone may also be a risk factor ( 78 ). To date, only 2 cases of cervical carcinoma in transmen have been described ( 77 , 79 ). Again, it is important to keep in mind that, until recently, many countries required removal of female sex organs before a transman could change the sex on the birth certificate, which makes the data available limited. As there is no evidence for a decreased risk of cervical carcinoma in transmen, it seems reasonable for transmen with a uterus to participate in screening/HPV vaccination programs for ciswomen. It is important to inform transmen about the need for this screening as they probably do not receive invitations from screening organizations. Ovarian Cancer Endometrial epidermal growth factor receptor, which is stimulated by testosterone, is commonly found in ovarian cancer cells, and its expression has been associated with poor prognosis ( 80 ). However, whether testosterone therapy increases the risk for ovarian cancer in transmen has not been elucidated yet. To date, 3 cases of ovarian cancer have been reported in transmen using testosterone ( 81 , 82 ). Future studies need to provide more evidence about the risk of gynecological cancers in transmen. Until then, screening for ovarian cancer seems unnecessary. Evaluation of Transgender People Receiving Hormonal Therapy Since hormonal therapy is associated with several side-effects it is recommended that medical conditions which can be exacerbated by hormonal therapy are addressed before the start of therapy. During hormonal therapy it is advisable to regularly measure hormone concentrations and maintain them in the normal physiological range. For transwomen estradiol levels between 100 to 200 pg/mL (367 pmol/L to 734 pmol/L) and testosterone levels of <50 ng/dL (<2 nmol/L) are recommended. For transmen, the testosterone level is dependent on the specific assay, but is typically 320 to 1000 ng/dL (11 nmol/L to 35 nmol/L) ( 10 ). However, the peak testosterone level after a short acting testosterone injection is often (much) higher than 1200 ng/dL (42 nmol/L). It is also recommended to regularly measure glucose concentrations, lipid panel, and blood pressure during hormonal therapy in both transwomen and transmen, hematocrit in transmen, and electrolytes in transwomen receiving spironolactone (in the first year at baseline and 3 and 12 months, hereafter every 6 months to 2 years). SURGERY Many transgender people choose to have surgery in addition to hormonal therapy. There are several surgical options. While some
