Evaluation and Treatment of Gender-Dysphoric/Gender Incongruent Adults
KEYWORDS: pubmed, therapy, transgender, transwomen, cancer, transmen, hormonal, risk, gender, hormonal therapy, people, breast, testosterone, sex, bone


and 12 months, hereafter every 6 months to 2 years). SURGERY Many transgender people choose to have surgery in addition to hormonal therapy. There are several surgical options. While some types of surgery affect fertility, such as vaginoplasty in transwomen or oophorectomy/hysterectomy in transmen, others do not, such as breast surgery in both transwomen and transmen. For surgery which affects fertility, most guidelines recommend the usage of gender-affirming hormones for at least 12 months, which is based on expert consensus that 12 continuous months of living in the experienced gender role is needed for transgender individuals to experience and socially adjust in the desired gender role ( 5 , 10 ). Surgical Options in Transwomen Orchiectomy Orchiectomy can be performed independently or as part of a vaginoplasty. Orchiectomy is a relatively low-risk procedure ( 83 ). After orchiectomy the antiandrogens are no longer necessary and can discontinued. Vaginoplasty During a vaginoplasty an orchiectomy (if not previously performed) is performed, in combination with an amputation of the penis, the creation of a neovaginal cavity with lining, the reconstruction of a urethral meatus, and the creation of labia and clitoris. The most frequent procedure is penile inversion vaginoplasty during which the penile skin is used a pedicled flap for the vaginal lining. Since the amount of penile skin is limited, the penile skin flap is often combined with a scrotal skin flap. To prevent hair in the posterior lining of the vagina, hair removal therapy is desirable before penile inversion vaginoplasty. An alternative for penile inversion vaginoplasty is intestinal vaginoplasty, which is a good option in cases in which insufficient skin is available (for example in transwomen who have received puberty blockers during adolescence ( 83 )). Breast augmentation Many transwomen choose for breast augmentation since they are not satisfied with their hormone-induced breast growth. The breast augmentation procedure does not differ from an breast augmentation in ciswomen ( 83 ). Facial Feminization Surgery Facial feminization surgery includes a wide range of craniomaxillofacial surgical procedures which are designed to create more feminine facial features. Overall, facial feminization surgery seems a highly efficacious and beneficial procedure for transwomen ( 84 ). Vocal cord surgery Surgically shortening of the vibrating vocal cords or increasing the vocal cord tension can raise the voice pitch in cases that voice therapy does not achieve the desired effect ( 83 ). Chondrolaryngoplasty During chondrolaryngoplasty (tracheal shaving) the prominence
