Evaluation and Treatment of Gender-Dysphoric/Gender Incongruent Adults
KEYWORDS: pubmed, therapy, transgender, transwomen, cancer, transmen, hormonal, risk, gender, hormonal therapy, people, breast, testosterone, sex, bone


the vocal cord tension can raise the voice pitch in cases that voice therapy does not achieve the desired effect ( 83 ). Chondrolaryngoplasty During chondrolaryngoplasty (tracheal shaving) the prominence of the thyroid cartilage is reduced. Chondroplasty can be performed alone or in combination with vocal cord surgery. Reduction of the Adam’s apple can have positive effects on the psychological well-being of transwomen ( 85 ). Surgical Options in Transmen Subcutaneous Mastectomy Most transmen choose mastectomy. A mastectomy in transmen which is performed for aesthetic reasons differs from a mastectomy in ciswomen which is performed because of breast cancer. During the mastectomy in transmen not all glandular tissue is removed. In addition, (more) attention has to be paid to reduction and adequate positioning of the nipple areola complex, destruction of the inframammary fold, and minimization of scars ( 83 ). Hysterectomy Many transmen desire uterus extirpation with or without a salpingo-oophorectomy for gender affirmation, pelvic pain, persistent vaginal blood loss, or cancer-risk reduction. It is preferred to use a vaginal approach instead of a transabdominal approach although this could be technically challenging as many transmen have not experienced penetrative intercourse and are on testosterone therapy ( 86 ). Transmen who also want a colpectomy can also choose to have a robot-assisted laparoscopic hysterectomy (with salpingo-oophorectomy) in combination with a robot-assisted laparoscopic colpectomy ( 87 ). Colpectomy Transmen may choose for a colpectomy (removal of the vaginal epithelium) for several reasons, such as unwanted vaginal discharge in general or as result of sexual arousal, or the wish for phalloplasty with urethral extension. There are two options for colpectomy, the vaginal approach and the robot-assisted laparoscopic colpectomy in combination with hysterectomy and salpingo-oophorectomy. The robot-assisted procedure seems to be safer than the vaginal approach ( 87 ). Phalloplasty Phalloplasty is the surgical creation of a full-size penis. It is a difficult surgical procedure with high rates of complications such as urethral stenosis. An ideal phallus has sufficient length for vaginal penetration, has sensibility, and, if desired, enables the transman to urinate in standing position. Multiple flaps have been used to create the phallus, but for penile reconstruction the free radial forearm flap remains the gold standard ( 83 , 88 ). Metadoidioplasty During a metoidioplasty a microphallus is created by using the testosterone-induced hypertrophied clitoris. While a metadoidioplasty gives a lower risk for complications than a phalloplasty, it cannot be guaranteed that
