Evaluation and Treatment of Gender-Dysphoric/Gender Incongruent Adults
KEYWORDS: pubmed, therapy, transgender, transwomen, cancer, transmen, hormonal, risk, gender, hormonal therapy, people, breast, testosterone, sex, bone


During a metoidioplasty a microphallus is created by using the testosterone-induced hypertrophied clitoris. While a metadoidioplasty gives a lower risk for complications than a phalloplasty, it cannot be guaranteed that voiding in the standing position is possible. In addition, vaginal penetration will not be possible ( 83 , 88 ). FERTILITY PRESERVATION It is estimated that about 47% of transgender individuals would like to have a child to whom they are genetically related ( 89 ). Gender affirmation therapy, both hormonal and surgical, is an indication for fertility preservation since hormonal therapy adversely affects fertility, and surgery may include gonadal removal. While the adverse effects of hormonal therapy may be reversible when the therapy is ceased, it is important to discuss fertility preservation options with a transgender individual before the start of hormonal therapy ( 90 ). In transwomen the percentage that would have frozen sperm if this option was offered, varied from 13% in asexual or heterosexual (being attracted to men) transwomen to 56% in homosexual (being attracted to women) and bisexual transwomen ( 91 ). It is estimated that about 37% ( 92 ) of the transmen wish to have their gametes preserved before any gender affirming therapy. For transgender adolescents it is important to involve parents in the fertility preservation counseling as they play an important role in exploring options for their children and usually have to give their consent to interventions. A recent study found that parents overall did not emphasize the importance of their child having children to whom they are genetically related but they agreed that that fertility preservation counseling is relevant ( 93 ). Transwomen Semen cryopreservation using specimens obtained from masturbation or penile vibratory stimulation is technically the most easy, reliable and inexpensive method for fertility preservation in transwomen. However, for some transwomen this option may not be possible because of the psychologically distress induced by this procedure, or the difficulties in erection and ejaculation. Alternatives are electro-stimulation or surgical sperm retrieval, or in case of azoospermia, testicular sperm extraction ( 90 ). The obtained sperm can be used to fertilize the partner of the transwoman if this partner is female. In case of a male partner a gestational surrogate is needed for fertilization. Transmen For transmen fertility options are embryo cryopreservation, oocyte cryopreservation, and ovarian tissue cryopreservation. As long as the ovaries and uterus are in situ, it is also possible
