Evaluation and Treatment of Gender-Dysphoric/Gender Incongruent Adults
KEYWORDS: pubmed, therapy, transgender, transwomen, cancer, transmen, hormonal, risk, gender, hormonal therapy, people, breast, testosterone, sex, bone


for fertilization. Transmen For transmen fertility options are embryo cryopreservation, oocyte cryopreservation, and ovarian tissue cryopreservation. As long as the ovaries and uterus are in situ, it is also possible for a transgender man to become pregnant spontaneously. Since testosterone therapy may be dangerous for fetal development it is important that testosterone therapy be discontinued before the transman becomes pregnant. In contrast to the other options, ovarian tissue cryopreservation is more experimental and not widely available. For embryo creation or to fertilize a preserved oocyte, sperm from an intimate partner or an anonymous donor, is needed. When a transgender man does not want to carry the child, a gestational surrogate is also needed. However, surrogacy for transgender individuals is still not widely available due to ethical and legal issues. Furthermore it is important to note that all fertility options in transmen are sooner or later accompanied with controlled ovarian hyperstimulation, which could be very distressing for a transman ( 90 ). SPECIAL TOPICS Hormonal Therapy in Older Transgender People Some transgender people start the transition to their experienced gender at an older age (often after a long time of struggling), even past the age of 50 or 60 years ( 23 , 94 ). The majority of these people are currently transwomen ( 94 ), but the number of transgender individuals, and especially transmen is currently rapidly growing, possibly due to a greater tolerance and acceptability in society ( 2 ). There is no evidence that the manifestations of biological effects of sex hormones will be less in the elderly than in younger people ( 13 , 95 , 96 ). Age itself should not be regarded as a contraindication to start with hormonal therapy, but the risks of side-effects may be higher at an older age ( 97 ). Unsupervised Use of Hormonal Therapy Ideally, the indication for hormonal therapy is the result of psychological assessment that concludes that medical treatment will bring relief to an individual suffering from gender dysphoria ( 98 ). However, it is not uncommon that transgender people self-medicate. The use of health care facilities specialized in gender care may be unaffordable, difficult to assess due to long waiting lists, or people are unwilling to undergo psychodiagnostic assessment of their gender problems. Hormones are relatively easy to obtain, and peer groups and the internet provide (sometimes misguided) information on their use ( 99 – 101
