Evaluation and Treatment of Gender-Dysphoric/Gender Incongruent Adults
KEYWORDS: pubmed, therapy, transgender, transwomen, cancer, transmen, hormonal, risk, gender, hormonal therapy, people, breast, testosterone, sex, bone


undergo psychodiagnostic assessment of their gender problems. Hormones are relatively easy to obtain, and peer groups and the internet provide (sometimes misguided) information on their use ( 99 – 101 ). Frequently, contraceptive pills containing ethinylestradiol with its associated risks ( 45 , 102 ) are used in high doses. Our knowledge about self-medication in the transgender population is very limited, but a study has indicated increased side-effects with illicit use of hormones ( 101 ). Another study found 23% of applicants for treatment had used sex hormones already. Remarkably, 32% were transwomen and 6% transmen. The individuals who had used self-prescribed hormones had much less knowledge about appropriate use and potential side-effects ( 103 ). Physicians should be aware of illicit hormone use and intervene when necessary. CONCLUSIONS Transgender care is a challenging, multidisciplinary, and developing field in medicine. The transgender population is rapidly growing and the existence of non-binary or gender queer genders gets increasingly more attention. Before the start of any type of therapy, the physician needs to discuss the pros and cons of the several treatment options so that the transgender individual can make a well-considered decision. Due to the increase of high-quality studies, hormonal and surgical therapy will probably be further optimized in the (near) future. Therefore, it is important for physicians who provide transgender care to stay up-to-date with the latest literature. In addition, as the waiting lists may be growing due to the rapidly the increasing number of new applications to gender clinics, physicians should be aware of a growing number of transgender individuals who use self-prescribed hormones. REFERENCES 1. Koehler A, Eyssel J, Nieder TO. Genders and Individual Treatment Progress in (Non-). Binary Trans Individuals. J. Sex. Med. 2018; 15 (1):102–113. [ PubMed : 29229223 ] 2. Wiepjes CM, Nota NM, Blok CJM, De, Klaver M, Vries ALC, De, Wensing-kruger SA, Jongh RT, De, Bouman M, Steensma TD, Cohen-kettenis P, Gooren LJG, Kreukels BPC, den Heijer M. The Amsterdam Cohort of Gender Dysphoria Study (1972 e 2015) : Trends in Prevalence, Treatment, and Regrets. J. Sex. Med. 2018; 15 :582–590. [ PubMed : 29463477 ] 3. Polderman TJC, Kreukels BPC, Irwig MS, Beach L, Chan YM. The Biological Contributions to Gender Identity and Gender Diversity : Bringing Data to the Table. Behav. Genet. 2018; 48 (2):95–108. [ PubMed : 29460079 ] 4. Swaab DF. Sexual differentiation of the brain and behavior. Best
