Thin Fat Obesity: The Tropical Phenotype of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, fat, weight, body, normal, pubmed, normal weight, weight obesity, phenotype, diabetes, south, body fat, risk, women, individuals


obesity and diabetes ( 2 , 3 ). Though countries like India and China are the leading countries with the largest number of people with diabetes there is paradoxically a much smaller number of people with obesity in these countries ( 4 ). This paradox is largely due to the altered body composition with increased visceral adipose tissue and decreased lean mass leading to this unique thin fat phenotype that has been described in individuals of south Asian descent ( 5 ). Moreover, this problem is further compounded by a younger age of development of these cardiometabolic disorders, a rapidly increasing prevalence, and significant financial constraints for most people to afford good healthcare in these countries ( 6 ). This complex situation highlights the need to appropriately identify at risk individuals and intervene in those who have a high cardiometabolic risk irrespective of their apparently lean phenotype. In this review, we discuss this unique thin fat phenotype seen in tropical countries, its prevalence, pathogenesis, clinical implications, and discuss the current evidence-based management. This unique south Asian phenotype was classically described in a seminal paper published in the Lancet in the year 2004 called the YY Paradox ( 7 ). This pictorial abstract compared the body mass index and body composition of a Caucasian and an Indian physician. It showed how despite both having a similar normal body mass index (22.3 kg/m 2 ), the body fat content was much higher in the Indian doctor. (21.2% vs 9.1%). Following this, several studies have examined the underlying pathophysiology of this phenotype ( 8 , 9 ); however, better understanding of the utility and role of the conventional obesity indicators in this phenotype is needed. Furthermore, there is also a need to validate novel clinical and genetic indicators that can be used for mass screening such that the burden of non-communicable disorders in this region can be decreased ( 10 ). DEFINITION OF THIN FAT OBESITY Thin fat obesity has been known by several names in the scientific literature. Names such as normal weight obesity, metabolic obesity, metabolically unhealthy non-obese, skinny fat, and sarcopenic obesity(especially in elderly) have been used in the past ( 5 , 11 ). However, the term normal weight obesity was first described in 2006, by De Lorenzo as an individual with a high body fat despite normal weight ( 12 ). Simultaneously it was also observed that the
