Thin Fat Obesity: The Tropical Phenotype of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, fat, weight, body, normal, pubmed, normal weight, weight obesity, phenotype, diabetes, south, body fat, risk, women, individuals


Women ≥ 20% ≥ 33% ≥ 25% ≥ 35% UTILITY OF ETHNICITY SPECIFIC OBESITY INDICATORS Assessment of obesity in any given patient would depend on two factors. The obesity indicator chosen to assess the obesity status and the cut-off used to define the threshold of obesity ( 17 ). Though several obesity indicators have been used for the evaluation of obesity, over the year’s focus had changed to use ethnicity specific cut-offs ( 10 ). In addition to the conventionally used indicators like body mass index, waist circumference, and waist hip ratio, more recently neck circumference, waist height ratio, and body fat estimation have been added to the diagnostic armamentarium ( 18 , 19 ). If more sophisticated imaging is available, visceral fat estimation is now considered the most reliable obesity indicator that may accurately predict underlying cardiometabolic risk factors ( 19 , 20 ). The key merits and disadvantages of different clinical/ imaging-based obesity indicators are summarized in Table 2 . In addition to these other methods such as bio-electrical impedance, potassium counter, and underwater weighing have also been used. Data is still emerging with respect to ethnicity specific cutoffs for these indicators and no universally acceptable thresholds have been defined for different ethnicities.( 21 ) Table 2. Comparison of Different Clinical/Imaging Based Obesity Indicators View in own window Obesity Indicators Advantages Disadvantages Body Mass Index Easy to measure Inexpensive Strongly correlated with body fat levels. Conventionally used for many years. Does not distinguish between body fat and lean body mass Not a good predictor of body fat in the elderly Gender and ethnicity-based differences are not detected. Waist circumference Easy to measure Inexpensive Strongly correlated with body fat in adults Shown to predict mortality Measurement procedure not standardized Lack of good reference data for children Difficult to measure in individuals with morbid obesity. Skin fold thickness Convenient Safe Inexpensive Portable Fast and easy Not as accurate or reproducible as other methods Very hard to measure in individuals with a BMI of 35 or higher Dual Energy X-ray Absorptiometry (DXA) Accurate Can measure visceral adiposity Very low radiation exposure Can precisely estimate lean mass and fat. Expensive and currently used in research settings Not portable Limited availability Cannot be used with pregnant women Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) Accurate Allows for measurement of specific body fat compartments, such as Visceral fat and subcutaneous fat This is expensive and only used
