Thin Fat Obesity: The Tropical Phenotype of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, fat, weight, body, normal, pubmed, normal weight, weight obesity, phenotype, diabetes, south, body fat, risk, women, individuals


29 ) Bio impedance ≥ 20.6% in men; ≥ 33.4% in women Among normal-BMI subjects: 33.4% North Americans Ramsaran C et al 2017( 30 ) Bio impedance ≥23.1% males, ≥33.3% females 19.9% [95% confidence interval (CI) 15.1-25.7]. Trinidad and Tobago Ji T et al 2020 ( 31 ) Bio impedance male ≥25% and female ≥35%) 10.7% China In a recently published study from southern India, it was found that about two third of participants who had a non-obese BMI (< 25 k/m 2 ), actually had a high body fat percentage. These individuals with normal weight obesity, accounted for about one third of the entire study population. ( 14 ) As shown in table 3 there is a wide variation in the prevalence of normal weight obesity across different tropical countries but appears to higher than observed in North America. The key reasons for the wide variation in the prevalence of normal weight obesity across the world are multifactorial. In addition to the role played by the genetic background and ethnicity, the method of body fat assessment, the body fat thresholds used to define obesity, the prevalence of overt obesity in that community, and other factors like low birth weight may be responsible for the variation ( 32 ). These are discussed in greater detail in the pathophysiology section of this chapter. The high prevalence of normal weight obesity, across different continents calls for better screening and early identification of this poorly recognized phenotype. Many of these patients may go unnoticed by the treating physician and the high risk of metabolic abnormalities such as type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension that may lead to severe complications not appreciated. Moreover, a unified diagnostic criterion for establishing a diagnosis of normal weight obesity is needed for being able to compare the prevalence of this phenotype across different populations. However, there a need for ethnicity specific cutoffs and recently countries from the south Asian region have used the body fat percentage cutoff as ~20% for men and 33% for women ( 4 , 5 , 10 ) ( Table 1 ). INSIGHTS INTO THE PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Several factors have been implicated in the pathogenesis of the thin fat phenotype in the south Asian population. ( Figure 1 ). Though overall, there has been in an increase in the prevalence of overt obesity in south Asian countries, which could be attributed to the increased urbanization
