Thin Fat Obesity: The Tropical Phenotype of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, fat, weight, body, normal, pubmed, normal weight, weight obesity, phenotype, diabetes, south, body fat, risk, women, individuals


( Figure 1 ). Though overall, there has been in an increase in the prevalence of overt obesity in south Asian countries, which could be attributed to the increased urbanization and reduced physical activity, there still remains a paradox between the disproportionately large number of people with type 2 diabetes and the relatively small number of individuals with overt obesity. The intake of high fat - high sugar meals, easy access to energy dense foods, and limited physical activity have been further compounded by the occurrence of the COVID-19 pandemic ( Figure 2 ) ( 33-35 ). Overall, a rapid economic transition in many tropical countries has led to an increased availability of processed foods, more environmental pollution, mechanization of lifestyle and limited time to do physical activity contributing to a rapid increase in the prevalence of obesity in these countries. ( 36-38 ). Though urbanization is known to increase the risk of obesity, for the development of the thin-fat phenotype there have been speculations that migration of people from a rural to the urban setting may play a significant role especially in the Indian setting. In a study by Kinra et al, it was found that body fat percentage increased rapidly in the first decade following migration unlike many other cardiometabolic parameters which changed more gradually ( 39 ). Low birth weight has also been implicated in the development of this “thin fat” phenotype described in the Indian population. In 2003, Yajnik et al, published findings to support that the thin fat Indian phenotype is present even in newborns. Neonates from Indian origin were compared to those born from a European ancestry in the United Kingdom ( 40 ). The authors found the Indian newborn babies were thin in terms of their skeletal mass but had a relatively high amount of subcutaneous fat. This led to term “thin fat neonate” and was in line with the previous thrifty phenotype suggested by Barker ( 41 ). These findings provided further impetus to ongoing studies of nutritional programming as a basis for Developmental Origins of Health and Disease (DOHaD). Figure 1: The key factors implicated in the pathogenesis for the development of the thin-fat phenotype in the south Asian population Stress associated with maternal malnutrition and a consequent maternal glucocorticoid surge could lead to intrauterine growth retardation and subsequent changes in the fetal hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis could cause altered ectopic
