Thin Fat Obesity: The Tropical Phenotype of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, fat, weight, body, normal, pubmed, normal weight, weight obesity, phenotype, diabetes, south, body fat, risk, women, individuals


associated with maternal malnutrition and a consequent maternal glucocorticoid surge could lead to intrauterine growth retardation and subsequent changes in the fetal hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis could cause altered ectopic fat deposits, including in the pancreas ( 42 ). There is also a possible role of maternal vitamin B12 in influencing fetal growth and programming for chronic diseases, explained through several interlinking metabolic pathways involving methionine and folate cycles collectively called the once carbon hypothesis ( 43 ). In a previously published study from our center, we found that individuals with a low birth weight showed trends towards an unhealthy body fat distribution, lower lean body mass, impaired glucose tolerance, and an elevated diastolic blood pressure, even while they were just in their second decade of life ( 44 ). More recent evidence from basic science experiments have revealed that not only the birthweight but even the post-natal diet could play an important role in developing normal weight obesity ( 45 ). Figure 2. The bidirectional impact of obesity and COVID-19 A higher visceral adipose tissue content which is now considered the most important predictor of cardiometabolic disorders is also said to be higher in individuals from the south Asian region ( 46 ). The classical thin fat phenotype is also well explained in this population by the fat overflow hypothesis. This states that south Asians have a much lower capacity of storing fat in the subcutaneous region. Thereby when exposed to high calorie intake the subcutaneous tissue is overwhelmed and the extra fat content then spills into ectopic sites. The classic ectopic sites include the omentum (visceral adipose tissue), kidney, heart, intestine and liver. This then leads to higher amount of VAT despite similar total body fat compared to the European population and therefore the development of normal weight obesity ( 47 ). Several genetic variations have also been studied to understand the origins of the thin fat phenotype in the Indian population. Several variants of the FTO and MC4R gene have been implicated in development of this phenotype but further studies are needed in this regard ( 48 ). Moreover, the presence of monogenic causes of obesity is higher in the south Asian population due to a higher prevalence of consanguinity ( 49 , 50 ). CLINICAL IMPLICATIONS This poorly recognized thin fat phenotype is not only common in the south Asian region but also has significant clinical
