Thin Fat Obesity: The Tropical Phenotype of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, fat, weight, body, normal, pubmed, normal weight, weight obesity, phenotype, diabetes, south, body fat, risk, women, individuals


prevalence of consanguinity ( 49 , 50 ). CLINICAL IMPLICATIONS This poorly recognized thin fat phenotype is not only common in the south Asian region but also has significant clinical implications with respect to cardio metabolic risk. This is important not only for health care providers practicing in south Asia but is also applicable to the health care of south Asian individuals who have migrated to different countries ( 51 ). Figure 3. Prevalence of diabetes, hypertension, and dyslipidemia in individuals with normal weight obesity as compared to non-obese and overtly obese individuals In a recent study done in south India it was found that individuals with normal weight obesity had a significantly higher prevalence of diabetes, hypertension, and dyslipidemia (defined by the NCEP-ATP III guidelines ( 52 )) as compared to those without obesity. More importantly, the prevalence of these cardiometabolic risk factors were similar to individuals with obesity ( Figure 3 ). After adjusting for other risk factors the odds of normal weight obese individuals having type 2 diabetes mellitus was found to be 2.72 (95% CI:1.46-5.08) as compared to non-obese individuals ( 53 ). A similar study from China found that individuals with normal weight obesity also had a significantly higher prevalence of metabolic syndrome when compared to non-obese individuals ( 54 ). In the Women's Health Initiative study including 161,808 postmenopausal women between 50 to 74 years, it was found that women with normal weight obesity had a twofold higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes mellitus ( 55 ). When compared to non-obese individuals, those with normal weight obesity have not only been found to have a higher risk of atherosclerosis but normal weight obesity has been found to be an independent risk predictor for presence of soft plaques in blood vessels after adjustment for blood pressure, blood glucose, lipid level, c-reactive protein, medications, smoking status, and physical activity ( 56 ). In another study involving 23,748 individuals, people with normal weight obesity had a significantly higher odds of having a high Framingham risk score for cardiovascular disease (OR 1.973, 95% CI 1.596-2.439) as compared to normal individuals ( 57 ). Similar findings have been found in either sex and even in children, adolescents, and younger adults ( 58-60 ). Another important clinically relevant subject related to the thin fat phenotype especially in tropical countries comes with the intersection of non-communicable diseases with chronic cachectic
