Thin Fat Obesity: The Tropical Phenotype of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, fat, weight, body, normal, pubmed, normal weight, weight obesity, phenotype, diabetes, south, body fat, risk, women, individuals


younger adults ( 58-60 ). Another important clinically relevant subject related to the thin fat phenotype especially in tropical countries comes with the intersection of non-communicable diseases with chronic cachectic infectious disease. A classic example of this would be the presence of cardiometabolic disorders with an infectious disease like AIDS. We recently reviewed the association of HIV-AIDS with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in south Asian countries ( 61 ). With better treatment of HIV infected individuals, the life expectancy and morbidity due to the virus per se has greatly improved. However, in most tropical countries there is limited screening facilities, widespread use of non-metabolic friendly antiviral drugs, and an existing thin fat phenotype making the prevalence of NAFLD much higher and yet very obscure. In the recent ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, obesity has been considered as one of the key risk factors for increased mortality in the younger population. However, there is emerging evidence that individuals with normal weight obesity especially in the south Asian countries are also more likely to develop severe disease ( 35 ). There are several risk factors that have been described to associate the bidirectional relationship between COVID 19 and normal weight obesity ( Figure 2 ). Mortality Associated with Normal Weight Obesity Individuals with normal weight obesity have been found to have a higher all-cause mortality and major adverse cardiac and cerebrovascular events after an acute coronary syndrome when compared to those without normal weight obesity (adjusted (HR 1.83; 95% CI: 1.04-3.31) ( 62 ). In another recent study from the Women’s Health Initiative study cohort, which involved 156,624 women followed for a total of 2,811,187 patient years, it was found that women with normal weight obesity were found to have a higher all-cause mortality (HR 1.31; 95% CI, 1.20-1.42) and higher cardiovascular mortality (HR 1.25; 95% CI, 1.05-1.46). There was no difference in the mortality risk between women who had normal weight obesity as compared to those who had overt obesity. Moreover, this is the first study to show that cancer related mortality was also higher in women with normal weight obesity as compared to those who were normal weight without centripetal obesity (HR 1.20; 95% CI, 1.01-1.43) ( 63 ). Considering the higher risk of cardiometabolic disease and the higher mortality in people with normal weight obesity, there has been a recent concern in army recruits as they are predominantly deemed fit from
