Thin Fat Obesity: The Tropical Phenotype of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, fat, weight, body, normal, pubmed, normal weight, weight obesity, phenotype, diabetes, south, body fat, risk, women, individuals


risk of cardiometabolic disease and the higher mortality in people with normal weight obesity, there has been a recent concern in army recruits as they are predominantly deemed fit from an obesity perspective based only on body mass index measurements ( 64 ). BODY FAT ESTIMATION Accurate assessment of body fat is one of the key methods of identifying at-risk individuals in the south Asian population. More specifically detection of visceral adipose tissue is clinically more relevant. However, the gold standard for assessment of total body fat and ectopic fat depots is by using a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), which is limited by the cost, availability, and the expertise required in tropical countries. Several other methods of assessing body fat have been described in literature. These include Dual energy x ray absorptiometry (DXA) scan, bio-electrical impedance, computed tomography (CT), body plethysmography, skin fold thickness, etc. ( 4 , 10 ). The advantages of using DXA scans is that there is minimal radiation exposure, provides estimates of visceral adipose tissue, and is relatively easy to interpret. However, it is still costly and not widely available in many south Asian countries. DXA scans also cannot be used in community-based studies due to the large size of the DXA scanner compared to other portable machines that estimate fat such as bio-electrical impedance. Though there has been a good concordance between the fat estimation between bio-impedance and DXA scan, it is important to note that this concordance has been seen in normal ranges of body fat. Bio-impedance tends to over-estimate lower body fat percentages and under estimate higher values of body fat percentage ( 65 ). Nevertheless, its safe, rapid, and inexpensive. It is important to standardize for the variables that can modify the impedance values. These include room temperature, body position, electrode placement, quantity of urine in the bladder, food and water consumption, and proximity of exercise to time of evaluation. In a large study from rural China involving more than 7000 participants waist circumference was found to be a better tool than body adiposity index to predict body fat percentage (measured by DXA), however the correlation coefficients between waist circumference and body fat percentage ranged between 0.24 to 0.66 in men and 0.12 to 0.77 in women, across different age groups. ( 66 ) Apart from the method of estimation, it is also important to use the appropriate threshold for diagnosing abnormal
