Thin Fat Obesity: The Tropical Phenotype of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, fat, weight, body, normal, pubmed, normal weight, weight obesity, phenotype, diabetes, south, body fat, risk, women, individuals


0.12 to 0.77 in women, across different age groups. ( 66 ) Apart from the method of estimation, it is also important to use the appropriate threshold for diagnosing abnormal body fat percentage. The impact of using different cut points for the diagnosis of normal weight obesity has been mentioned before. As per the American Association of Clinical Endocrinology guidelines a body fat percentage of more than 35% for women and 25% for men was set as a threshold for the diagnosis of obesity. However, for Asian countries a cut off of 33.4% for women and 20.6% for men, has been commonly used ( 4 , 10 ). Though measures of body fat estimation are helpful in clinical practice their widespread use in low -middle income countries may not be possible and good surrogate measures of visceral fat estimation may be the better way forward in such cost restrained settings. We recently studied the utility of using METS-VF, a novel surrogate measure to estimate visceral adipose tissue in Indian subjects with morbid obesity. This performed better than all other common clinically used obesity indicators and had the highest area under the curve 0.78 (95% CI: 0.72-0.85) for predicting VAT. At a cutoff of 7.3, METS-VF was found to have a good sensitivity and reasonable specificity in predicting high visceral adipose tissue in this population ( 6 ). Other surrogate measures of FAT assessment that have been used include ‘VAT=TAAT-SAAT model and ap VAT (anthropometrically predicted VAT). Though they have been shown to be useful in selected populations, they have not been validated in many tropical countries ( 6 ). While METS-VF uses simple clinical and biochemical parameters, including - waist-height ratio (WHtr), age and sex. LDL cholesterol, serum triglycerides and fasting glucose the VAT=TAAT-SAAT model uses only clinical variables like Waist Circumference, proximal thigh circumference, age and body mass index. Ap VAT is derived from a regression-based model including height, body mass index, and circumferences of the waist and thigh ( 67-69 ). MANAGEMENT At this point there is only limited information with respect to the management of the thin fat phenotype, which is widely prevalent in the south Asian population. Only a few intervention studies are available in the literature, and this is an important area of future research. The currently available literature is only based on life-style interventions. A very recently published study exploring the effect of a
