Thin Fat Obesity: The Tropical Phenotype of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, fat, weight, body, normal, pubmed, normal weight, weight obesity, phenotype, diabetes, south, body fat, risk, women, individuals


literature, and this is an important area of future research. The currently available literature is only based on life-style interventions. A very recently published study exploring the effect of a 12 weeks eu-energetic but high protein diet in women with normal weight obesity in a randomized controlled fashion, revealed no change in body weight at 12 weeks but a favorable change in body composition was noted. The eu-energetic was defined as equal amount of energy content in both groups according to the resting metabolic rate based on the Harris–Benedict predictive formula. ( 70 ). In another exercise based intervention, It was found that interval exercise and short duration accumulated exercises (10 minutes x 3 times of cycling) were more favorable in individuals with normal weight obesity as compared to continuous exercises (1 cycling session of 30 minutes) ( 71 ). We recently studied the impact of peer led Lifestyle based intervention in an unselected group of individuals including individuals with normal weight obesity at two years of follow-up. The intervention was based on specific targets in diet, physical activity, reduced tobacco and alcohol consumption, and was delivered through multiple sessions by trained peer leaders. Though there has been a significant improvement in reducing the overall cardiovascular risk of the entire study population and benefit in preventing diabetes in certain subgroups in the intervention arm, there was only a minimal improvement noted in the cardiometabolic parameters of individuals with normal weight obesity. The failure in this study to see benefit in patients with normal weight obesity was disappointing ( 53 ). The clinical and policy implications of the normal weight obese phenotype are challenging and are summarized in Figure 4 . With the limited information that it is currently available, it seems that this phenotype is either more resistant to change than the conventional obesity phenotype or requires more time to show significant improvement in metabolic parameters. The current practice recommendations may only be based on existing literature on overall populations where this phenotype is commonly prevalent. The Indian diabetes prevention study is one such example where individuals with prediabetes were randomized to an intensive lifestyle program targeting a weight reduction of about 7-10% of the original weight along with physical activity of at least 150 minutes per week to the intensity of brisk walking. The relative risk reduction to prevent diabetes was only 29% in this population as compared to
