Thin Fat Obesity: The Tropical Phenotype of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, fat, weight, body, normal, pubmed, normal weight, weight obesity, phenotype, diabetes, south, body fat, risk, women, individuals


activity of at least 150 minutes per week to the intensity of brisk walking. The relative risk reduction to prevent diabetes was only 29% in this population as compared to 58% in the US based, Diabetes prevention Program ( 72 ). Furthermore, addition of Metformin did not add a huge benefit in reducing the risk in this study population but bariatric surgery has been shown to be effective in achieving diabetes remission in another study including individuals with BMI between 22-35 Kg/m 2 individuals ( 73 ). Thus, with existing literature it may be prudent to evaluate all individuals with normal weight obesity for underlying cardiometabolic risk factors like diabetes, hypertension and dyslipidemia. Treatment for these conditions could be started based on standard guidelines but probably warrant a closely monitored approach and long-term follow-up. It is of paramount importance to educate these patients about their potential cardiometabolic risks which may otherwise be overlooked due to an obscure phenotype. Further research is needed to study the impact of long-term lifestyle changes and other medications on cardiometabolic risk factors, in individuals with normal weight obesity. Figure 4: The clinical and policy implications of the normal weight obese phenotype SUMMARY To conclude the obesity phenotype in many tropical countries including several south Asian countries is very different from other populations. Given the large prevalence and significantly higher associated cardiometabolic disorders with the thin fat phenotype, it needs to be recognized as a distinct entity such that it can be identified and managed appropriately. While evidence for the best therapeutic protocols is still emerging, a good life style intervention focusing on healthy dietary practices, regular exercise, and reducing tobacco and alcohol consumption shows a positive trend in improving the cardiometabolic risk of this phenotype. The role of examining the underlying genetic makeup and use of surrogate measures to estimate body fat could be useful adjuncts in the further characterization of this unique phenotype. REFERENCES 1. Kyrou I, Randeva HS, Tsigos C, Kaltsas G, Weickert MO 2000 Clinical Problems Caused by Obesity. In: Feingold KR, Anawalt B, Boyce A, Chrousos G, de Herder WW, Dungan K, Grossman A, Hershman JM, Hofland HJ, Kaltsas G, Koch C, Kopp P, Korbonits M, McLachlan R, Morley JE, New M, Purnell J, Singer F, Stratakis CA, Trence DL, Wilson DP eds. Endotext. South Dartmouth (MA): MDText.com, Inc. Copyright © 2000-2020, MDText.com, Inc. 2. Chadt A, Scherneck S, Joost HG,
