Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


TAKE-HOME POINTS The structure of insulin contains determinants of foldability, trafficking, self-assembly, and receptor binding. Insulin is the biosynthetic product of a single-chain precursor, preproinsulin, whose proteolytic processing is coupled to trafficking between cellular compartments. The connecting (C) domain of proinsulin is removed by a specialized set of endoproteases and a carboxypeptidase activity, acting mainly within maturing secretory granules. Insulin is stored as microcrystalline arrays of zinc insulin hexamers within specialized glucose-regulated secretory vescicles. Regulation of insulin secretion is coupled to metabolism and electrophysiologic events involving plasma membrane depolarization and calcium-ion homeostasis. The insulin receptor is a transmembrane protein containing an extracellular hormone-binding domain and intracellular tyrosine kinase domain. Binding of insulin to the insulin receptor (an (αβ) 2 dimer) is mediated by side chains in both the A- and B chains of insulin. The primary hormone-binding site (Site 1) in the extracellular domain of the insulin receptor contains the L1 β -helix of one α -subunit and the C-terminal α CT α -helix of the other α -subunit. Dominant mutations in the insulin gene cause monogenic syndromes of diabetes mellitus, prominently including permanent neonatal-onset diabetes, due to toxic misfolding of proinsulin variants. INTRODUCTION Insulin plays a central role in the regulation of human metabolism. The hormone is a 51-residue anabolic protein that is secreted by the β-cells in the Islets of Langerhans. Containing two chains (A and B) connected by disulfide bonds, the mature hormone is the post-translational product of a single-chain precursor, designated proinsulin . Extensive studies of the three-dimensional structure of insulin, pioneered by D. C. Hodgkin , have enabled the development of therapeutic analogs for the treatment of the metabolic disorder diabetes mellitus (DM) . The insulin gene is the site of dominant mutations associated with DM . Although such mutations are uncommon, their molecular analysis has provided important insights into the biochemical bases of the hormone’s pathway of biosynthesis and mechanism of receptor binding . The largest class of mutations is associated with the impaired folding of proinsulin, which leads in turn to progressive endoplasmic-reticular (ER) stress, β-cell death and DM, usually with onset in the neonatal period . Key complementary functions of insulin are (a) stimulation of glucose uptake from the systemic circulation and (b) suppression of hepatic gluconeogenesis, together regulating glucose homeostasis . DM is characterized by decreased glucose tolerance resulting from a relative deficiency of insulin or a lack of sensitivity to
