Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


(b) suppression of hepatic gluconeogenesis, together regulating glucose homeostasis . DM is characterized by decreased glucose tolerance resulting from a relative deficiency of insulin or a lack of sensitivity to the endogenous hormone. Insufficient insulin, or decreased insulin sensitivity, results in hyperglycemia. Long-term exposure of tissues to elevated ambient glucose concentrations is associated with the development of complications, including macro- and microvascular disease. Of particular concern are coronary heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, and the characteristic retinopathy, nephropathy, and neuropathy of this disorder . The history of the discovery of insulin and its therapeutic utility defined a paradigm for the integration of physiologic and biochemical approaches in experimental medicine . At the end of the 19 th century Von Mering and Minkowski noted that removal of the pancreas led to the development of DM in dogs . In 1916 Schafer first speculated that an antidiabetic hormone, which he named “insuline,” was secreted from pancreatic islets . Barron noted in 1920 that ligation of the pancreatic duct, with destruction of the exocrine pancreas, only resulted in DM if the islets, so named by Langerhans in 1869 , were also destroyed . Subsequently, the work of Banting, Best, Collip and MacCleod in the early 1920′s resulted in the identification of a substance in extracts of pancreas that had the remarkable ability to reduce blood glucose levels in diabetic animals . By 1923 these pancreatic extracts were employed to successfully treat patients with DM. The dramatic clinical utility of insulin encouraged broad public support for medical research . The modern view of insulin is as a ligand that activates a specific cellular receptor, designated the insulin receptor (IR) . The IR belongs to a superfamily of receptor tyrosine kinase whose activation modulates multiple post-receptor signaling pathways . Insulin thus regulates a host of other cellular processes, such as protein and fat synthesis, RNA and DNA synthesis, as well as cell growth and differentiation . It is, however, the regulation of glucose uptake that is of primary concern in the clinical manifestations of diabetes; therefore, this chapter will begin with a brief description of how plasma glucose homeostasis is achieved. REGULATION OF PLASMA GLUCOSE BY INSULIN Specific membrane transporters facilitate the movement of glucose into cells to reduce plasma glucose concentrations in response to insulin stimulation. The transported glucose is subsequently used as metabolic fuel or stored as a complex polymeric structure, designated glycogen. Two
