Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


cells to reduce plasma glucose concentrations in response to insulin stimulation. The transported glucose is subsequently used as metabolic fuel or stored as a complex polymeric structure, designated glycogen. Two major types of glucose transporters are known: Na + -dependent and Na + -independent. Only the Na + -independent transporters possess an insulin-responsive isoform. We describe each in turn. The Na + -dependent glucose transporter family has been identified in several tissues, particularly in small intestinal epithelium (SGLT1) and the renal proximal tubule (SGLT2) as well as in other kidney tubule cells . These transporters are located on the lumenal side of intestinal and kidney cells and act to absorb glucose against its concentration gradient by coupling the movement of glucose into these cells with the concomitant movement of Na + into the cell. Since Na + is moving down its electrochemical gradient this energy can be used to cotransport glucose into the cells. Thus, this transporter is dependent on the concentrations of extracellular and intracellular sodium ions, which are maintained by a Na + /K + -ATPase ion pump. The Na + -independent glucose transporter family, consisting of several isoforms, facilitates the movement of glucose down its concentration gradient across a plasma membrane. Although seven isoforms have been identified (designated Glut1-7) , only one will be discussed in detail here, Glut4, because it is the transporter that is in highest concentration in insulin-sensitive tissues, including skeletal muscle, cardiac muscle, and adipose tissue (fat) . Glut4, and to a lesser extent Glut1 enable these cells to increase their uptake of glucose, thereby lowering circulating concentrations. Because the intracellular concentration of glucose is low due to the rapid phosphorylation of glucose to glucose-6-phosphate (not a substrate of the Glut transporters) and its conversion to other metabolic products, the presence of active transporters in the plasma membrane favors the movement of glucose into cells. Insulin enhances glucose uptake by increasing the number of transporters in the plasma membrane of target cells. This was first demonstrated in adipocytes and subsequently in skeletal and cardiac muscle . Insulin stimulation of such cells mobilizes transporters from intracellular compartments to the plasma membrane to facilitate glucose transport. Translocation of receptors to the plasma membrane has been demonstrated to occur within 30 seconds of insulin stimulation ; as the stimulus dissipates the decrease in the number of plasma membrane receptors declines coincident with a decline in glucose
