Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


demonstrated to occur within 30 seconds of insulin stimulation ; as the stimulus dissipates the decrease in the number of plasma membrane receptors declines coincident with a decline in glucose transport . Whereas glucose transport via Glut4 is a passive process (limited only by the chemical potential of the glucose gradient and the V max of the transporters), translocation and reverse reinternalization of receptors are energy-dependent processes . The impaired ability of insulin, on binding and activation of the IR, to signal Glut4 translocation from intracellular stores contributes to postprandial hyperglycemia in Type 2 DM . Animal studies have also demonstrated that insulin resistance is associated with a decreased translocation of glucose transporters to the plasma membrane in muscle cells . In fact, decreased insulin levels in animal models of DM have been shown not only to decrease transporter translocation, but also to attenuate expression of Glut4 in muscle cells. Thus, it appears that insulin provides both a short-term signal to increase glucose-transporter translocation and a long-term signal to maintain a basal level of expression of such transporters in target cells. The combination of acute and basal actions provides a common mechanism in Type 1 DM (characterized by low or vanishing endogenous insulin levels) or Type 2 DM (characterized by insulin resistance) could cause pathologically high plasma glucose levels: loss of regulation and expression of transmembrane glucose transporters. Glut2, expressed on surface of β-cells, contributes to the regulation of insulin secretion . Accordingly, a β-cell specific IR knock-out (KO) model indicated that insulin likely positively regulates its own secretion from the β-cell . Since its purification and clinical application in 1923 , the central importance of insulin in regulating glucose metabolism and the prevention of DM has stimulated research in attempts to understand the mechanism of action of this peptide hormone. This work has lead to the determination of the three-dimensional structure of insulin , identification of its precursor and the processing and secretion mechanisms that underlie its production . Complementary advances have seen the identification of the IR and of its mechanisms of signal transduction . Recent studies have defined three-dimensional structures of proinsulin and elements of the IR involved in hormone binding . In addition to their fundamental importance, these discoveries have deepened our understanding of the molecular basis of DM and its treatment as discussed below. INSULIN BIOGENESIS AND MECHANISM OF RELEASE Insulin was the first peptide
