Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


importance, these discoveries have deepened our understanding of the molecular basis of DM and its treatment as discussed below. INSULIN BIOGENESIS AND MECHANISM OF RELEASE Insulin was the first peptide hormone discovered. Before Abel crystallized insulin in 1926 and Jensen and Evans in 1935 identified the N-terminal phenylalanine of the B-chain , proving that insulin was indeed a protein, all hormones were believed to be small molecules. With the elucidation of the amino-acid sequence of insulin by Sanger in the mid 1950′s (see Figure 1), it became known that insulin was a two-chain heterodimer consisting of a 21-residue A-chain linked to a 30-residue B chain by two disulfide bonds derived from cysteine residues (A7-B7 and A20-B19). An intrachain disulfide bond also exists within the A-chain (A6-A11). Figure 1 . Primary structures of porcine insulin and porcine proinsulin. The primary sequence of porcine insulin (a) as determined by Sanger and co-workers ; and proinsulin . The sequence of human insulin is identical to that of porcine insulin except for the change of Ala B30 to Thr B30 in human insulin. Although this primary structure provided valuable information regarding the amino-acid composition and size (ca. 6,000 Daltons) of the insulin molecule , questions concerning the processes of insulin biosynthesis and secretion were not resolved until the late 1960′s with the discovery of proinsulin . This precursor protein (ca. 9,000 D) contains both the A- and B-chain of insulin in a continuous single chain joined through an intervening segment, designated the C domain . The C domain varies in length among vertebrate species (typically 30-35 residues) and is flanked at each end by dibasic residues (Arg-Arg and Lys-Arg) . Proinsulin is cleaved at those dibasic links by a trypsin-like enzyme to release the mature hormone and a free C-peptide (which lacks the dibasic residues). Figure 2. (a) Diagrammatic illustration of the processing of insulin. The transcription and translation of the human insulin gene, as well as processing of preproinsulin to insulin is illustrated. (b) Conversion of proinsulin to insulin demonstrating the secondary and tertiary structures of insulin; the flexible C domain in proinsulin and split proinsulins is shown in dotted line. Thick blue arrows indicated predominant path. Chan et al. subsequently discovered that there was an additional and larger precursor of insulin, preproinsulin. This single-chain polypeptide (ca. 12,000 Daltons) consists of proinsulin extended at the amino-terminus by a 24-residue signal peptide of hydrophobic
