Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


there was an additional and larger precursor of insulin, preproinsulin. This single-chain polypeptide (ca. 12,000 Daltons) consists of proinsulin extended at the amino-terminus by a 24-residue signal peptide of hydrophobic residues . Such a signal sequence is characteristic of proteins that enter the secretory pathway . The signal peptide of preproinsulin is cleaved coincident with its translocation into the ER , and thus proinsulin itself (together with the oxidative folding machinery of the ER) mediates proper disulfide pairing and three-dimensional protein folding . The steps involved in the conversion of the information encoded within the 1500 bases of the human insulin gene (as sequenced by Bell and colleagues in 1980 ) into preproinsulin and its subsequent proteolytic conversion to insulin are illustrated in Figure 2A and 2B. The first set of steps occur at the nucleic-acid level: the initial mRNA transcript is modified via excision of the two intervening sequences, the 5′ terminus is capped by 7-methyl guanosine, and the 3’-terminus undergoes polyadenylation to produce a mature mRNA product. This mRNA product encodes preproinsulin, which is translated on the rough endoplasmic reticulum (rER) and subsequently translocated into the RER lumen via a series of interactions of the signal peptide with the signal recognition particle (SRP) and SRP-receptor in the rER membrane . The next set of steps occurs at the protein level. The signal peptide is cleaved in the lumen of the rER by a signal peptidase (located on the lumenal side of the rER membrane). Within the cisternae of the rER, proinsulin undergoes rapid folding and disulfide bond formation to generate the native tertiary structure, the direct precursor of insulin. The signal peptide is rapidly degraded in the rER and is therefore not a normal secretory product of the β-cells . In the final series of steps proinsulin is transported to the Golgi apparatus where it is packaged into secretory granules and converted to native insulin and C-peptide. The conversion process may begin in the trans Golgi network but continues in the condensing vacuoles (early secretory granules), and the products are stored in mature secretory vesicles, and secreted in equimolar amounts along with small amounts (ca. 2-3%) of proinsulin and intermediate cleavage products . Glucose, in addition to stimulating insulin secretion by β-cells, also activates insulin gene transcription, enhances insulin mRNA stability, and stimulates its translation . Proinsulin, despite its larger size, shares many of the physical properties of
