Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


insulin secretion by β-cells, also activates insulin gene transcription, enhances insulin mRNA stability, and stimulates its translation . Proinsulin, despite its larger size, shares many of the physical properties of insulin. Proinsulin has been shown, for example, to form dimers and Zn 2+ -coordinated hexamers in a manner similar to insulin , has a comparable isoelectric point and solubility , and cross-reacts with insulin antisera . These findings motivated the hypothesis that the structure of the insulin moiety in proinsulin is similar, if not identical, to that of native insulin . Although the crystal structure of proinsulin has not been determined , presumably due to the flexibility of the C domain, its solution structure has recently been determined by multidimensional NMR methods . The insulin moiety indeed retains the conformation of insulin whereas the C domain is flexible (but not completely disordered). The solution structure rationalizes why proinsulin is a full agonist of insulin and displays 3-5% biological activity ; the binding regions of the insulin moiety are accessible even in the presence of the C domain . In 1969 it was demonstrated via pulse-chase studies that proteolytic processing of proinsulin occurs in the Golgi apparatus (GA) and/or early secretory vesicles of the β-cells ; and subsequent studies have identified the trans Golgi as the initial compartment wherein proinsulin and its converting enzymes are brought together to form secretory granules . Monoclonal antibodies specific for intact proinsulin also demonstrated that proinsulin is transferred from the rER to the cis- and trans Golgi, where the precursor is concentrated to form prosecretory vesicles . Several studies have demonstrated that shuttling of proinsulin vesicles from the rER to the cis Golgi and through the GA is an energy-requiring process requiring ATP . Subsequent conversion of proinsulin to insulin, initiated in the trans Golgi, accelerates within prosecretory granules as they acidify and mature in the cytosol over a period of 1-3 hours in preparation for secretion. Residual proinsulin and intermediate cleavage products then comprise only 2-3 percent of total stored insulin-related protein. Insulin secretory granules turn over at a much slower rate of many hours or several days normally. In the intracellular pathway taken by proinsulin on budding from the rER, distinct times are required for individual stages of transfer. In rat islets the conversion of proinsulin to insulin begins about 30 min after ribosomal synthesis of preproinsulin and resembles first-order reaction kinetics with
