Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


required for individual stages of transfer. In rat islets the conversion of proinsulin to insulin begins about 30 min after ribosomal synthesis of preproinsulin and resembles first-order reaction kinetics with half-times of approximately 30-60 minutes . The conversion of proinsulin to insulin occurs through the joint action of two types of proteases: one with trypsin-like endoprotease activity which cleave after the dibasic residues pairs at each end of the C domain, and another with exopeptidase activity resembling that of carboxypeptidase B to remove the basic residues left after tryptic-like cleavage . Previous studies have also demonstrated that mixtures of pancreatic trypsin and carboxypeptidase B could convert proinsulin to insulin in vitro . Two endoproteases were found within insulinoma secretory granules . Initially called Type I and Type II converting enzymes, each of these acidic endoproteases was found to be dependent on Ca 2+ ions. Type I was active in 1 mM Ca 2+ and cleaved at Arg31-Arg32 in proinsulin (the first two positions of the C domain) whereas Type II required 0.1 mM Ca 2+ and cleaved predominantly at Lys64-Arg65 (the last two positions of the C domain) . Each was also found to have an acidic pH optimum near 6.0. The discovery in yeast Saccharomyces cerevisciae of an endoprotease, designated Kex2, that cleaves at dibasic residue sites in the yeast α -mating factor and in microbial toxin precursor polypeptides facilitated the search for homologous endoproteases in mammalian β-cells . Kex2 is a homologue of subtilisin, a bacterial serine protease. In yeast this integral membrane protein is localized in the trans Golgi network. Analysis of human insulinoma cDNA via PCR techniques lead to the discovery of PC2, an enzyme having an homologous catalytic domain . PC2 shares 49% amino-acid identity with Kex2, but importantly lacks its transmembrane (TM) segment, indicating that it was likely to be a soluble protease and thus was a candidate for one of the processing endoproteases in β-cell secretory vesicles. Similar screening methods led to the discovery of PC1/3, the second secretory-granule convertase . Subsequent work demonstrated that both PC2 and PC1/3 display optimal activity at pH 5.5, consistent with the internal pH of β-cell secretory granules and are also expressed in the brain and many other neuroendocrine cells. These two proprotein convertases are members of a larger 7-member family of kexin/subtilisin-like endoproteases, which normally function within the secretory pathway in most eukaryotic cells . Immunocytochemical
