Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


other neuroendocrine cells. These two proprotein convertases are members of a larger 7-member family of kexin/subtilisin-like endoproteases, which normally function within the secretory pathway in most eukaryotic cells . Immunocytochemical studies of pancreatic islets β-cells provided evidence for the presence of both PC2 and PC1/3 in β-cells pancreatic islets , and their ability to convert proinsulin to insulin was demonstrated by co-infection with vaccinia viruses expressing PC2 and PC1/3 in Cos7 cells expressing proinsulin . Whereas PC2 mediated cleavage only at the C-peptide/A-chain junction, PC1/3 cleaved at both dibasic sites with a preference for the B-chain/C-peptide site. Subsequent studies also established the identity of PC2 and PC1/3 with the calcium-dependent Type II and Type I insulinoma endoproteases, respectively, as discovered by Davidson and coworkers . The carboxypeptidase B-like exopeptidase, which removes COOH-terminal basic residues after cleavage by PC2 and PC3/PC1, was also found and is known as carboxypeptidase E . Although structurally homologous to pancreatic carboxypeptidases A and B , carboxypeptidase E has several unique features that differentiate it from other carboxypeptidases . In the maturing secretory granule of the B cell, PC2, PC1/3, and carboxypeptidase E work together to convert proinsulin to mature insulin and C-peptide. Studies have demonstrated that PC1/3 first cleaves proinsulin at the B chain-C peptide junction, generating an intermediate product that is preferentially cleaved by PC2 to yield insulin . Thus knockout of PC1/3 results in very high circulating proinsulin levels while PC2 nulls exhibit much lower levels . The PC family of convertases are all synthesized as inactive precursors with a lengthy N-terminal propeptide that is autocatalytically cleaved at a tetrabasic cleavage site by the proenzyme as it passes from the slightly alkaline ER to the neutral and mildly acidic conditions of the Golgi apparatus and is then removed by a second cleavage within the propeptide which assists in its release and disposal, yielding the active full-length enzyme . In the case of PC1/3 the full length form is active , but undergoes C-terminal autocatalytic truncation to a smaller, more active form within the secretory granules . In the case of PC2 the removal of the propeptide is more complex and requires the presence of neuroendocrine protein 7B2 . Activation of PC2 thus does not occur in the Golgi but rather within the secretory granules where it also functions. The full length enzyme is the active form in the granules within the beta cells
