Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


not occur in the Golgi but rather within the secretory granules where it also functions. The full length enzyme is the active form in the granules within the beta cells and other neuroendocrine tissues. Knockout of 7B2 thus provides a phenocopy of the PC2 null when on the same genetic background, or inbred mouse strain (for review, see Ref ). Secretory granules in the β-cell undergo maturation in the cytosol. Electron-microscopic (EM) studies have demonstrated that mature granules have a dense crystalline-appearing core with a spacing similar to that of 2-Zn insulin crystals . Newly synthesized insulin is likely to forms crystals with zinc ions that are transported into the maturing secretory granules as demonstrated by a knockout of the zinc transporter (ZnT8) . The crystals reside in the dense core of the β-granules whereas the soluble C-peptide resides in the less dense or clear periphery of the granule . Proinsulin is also known to crystallize with insulin in small amounts, probably as mixed hexamers . Both proinsulin and insulin have the ability to bind zinc and form zinc-coordinated hexamers (two Zn 2+ axial atoms per hexameric unit); the side chain of histidine B10 coordinates axial Zn 2+ ions . The self-assembly and micro-crystallization of zinc-insulin hexamers may be regulated by compartmental pH. The secretory granules possess an intrinsic proton pump, which serves to lower the pH within the granule to pH 5.0-5.5: this is optimal for both prohormone processing and crystallization in vitro . The pH within the rER is less acidic, which promotes thiol-disulfide exchange and hence proinsulin folding with native disulfide pairing. High ambient glucose concentration in the islets promotes insulin biosynthesis and is the primary regulator of secretion. Elevated glucose concentrations cause an increase in cAMP levels by a mechanism that does not appear to involve activation of adenylate cyclase . cAMP then exerts its effects via a mechanism involving protein kinase A (PKA), leading to the phosphorylation and activation of certain key proteins . Through this complex chain of events, glucose and cAMP (and possibly contributions from the rise in intracellular free calcium and IP3) rapidly increase translation and transcription of insulin mRNA . Insulin mRNA normally turns over slowly, with a half life of approximately 30 hours at normal or below normal levels. However, elevated ambient glucose concentrations increase the half life of insulin mRNA as much as threefold . Calcium dependent exocytosis of
