Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


approximately 30 hours at normal or below normal levels. However, elevated ambient glucose concentrations increase the half life of insulin mRNA as much as threefold . Calcium dependent exocytosis of secretory granules is the main mechanism of secretion in both glucose-stimulated and basal states . Little or no direct secretion of proinsulin occurs from the rER to the plasma membrane by way of unregulated pathways . Other hormones and chemical substances also play an important role in the regulation of insulin secretion , including glucagon, which is secreted by α -cells in pancreatic islets as discussed in detail in another chapter; glucagon-like peptide (GLP-1: Ref. ); cholecystokinin ; and gastric inhibitory peptide all acting via specific receptors on the β-cell. Inhibitors of insulin secretion include catecholamines (adrenaline and noradrenaline) which interact with adrenergic receptors on the β-cell membrane , and somatostatin which is secreted by -cells of the pancreatic islets . Amylin is also secreted by the β -cell although the regulatory mechanisms for amylin co-secretion are not well understood. The integrated regulation of insulin secretion in pancreatic β -cells provides an opportunity to develop quantitative data-based computer models relating metabolic sensing to electrophysiological events and to intracellular Ca 2+ dynamics, ultimately leading to exocytosis of the secretory granules . Such analyses provides fundamental insight into the biochemical and biophysical determinants of cytoplasmic transport of organelles . BIOCHEMISTRY AND ELECTROPHYSIOLOGY OF INSULIN SECRETION Secretion of insulin from β -cells is not only an important step in the regulation of glucose homeostasis in healthy individuals, but has also been demonstrated to be impaired (for different reasons) in both Type 1 and Type 2 DM . In fact, in the prediabetic state of Type 1 DM as well as in various forms of Type 2 DM, abnormalities in insulin secretion are an integral component of the pathophysiology . In light of its extensive characterization the β-cell also serves as a model of the secretory process for other cell types. Insulin is stored in large dense core vesicles (LDCV) and released by exocytosis as described above. Such release is a multistep process that consists of the transport of the secretory vesicles to the plasma membrane, then docking, priming, and finally fusion of the vesicle with the plasma membrane. This process is regulated cooperatively by nutrients, other hormones, and neurotransmitters in association with electrical depolarization of the β-cell and release of insulin. Only a
