Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


vesicle with the plasma membrane. This process is regulated cooperatively by nutrients, other hormones, and neurotransmitters in association with electrical depolarization of the β-cell and release of insulin. Only a small portion of the insulin stored in vesicles in the β-cell is released, however, even under maximum stimulation. This suggests that systemic insulin levels are regulated by secretion rather than by biosynthesis and is not ordinarily limited by the size of storage pools. However the mechanisms that regulate the directed transport of the insulin granules to the plasma membrane are also not well understood. The best characterized mechanism of coupling glucose metabolism to insulin secretion resides in the electrical excitability of the β-cell. A large number of ion channels, pumps, and transporters contribute to intracellular calcium concentration, as well as other ions, to set the membrane potential (V m ) of the β-cell; this set point is near -70 mV when extracellular glucose is ~3 mM (see Figure 3). In 1968 Dean and Mathews demonstrated that β-cells are electrically excitable and that glucose controlled this excitability . They also showed that the action potentials of β-cells were increased by sulfonylureas. The use of patch-clamp techniques enabled the electrical activity of the β-cell to be studied in detail, and such studies by Ashcroft, Rorsman and others elucidated the key role of ATP-sensitive potassium (KATP) channels in the resting membrane potential of the β-cell as well as the importance of these channels in the mechanism of insulin secretion (for a recent perspective, see ). Figure 3 . β -cell ion channels. KATP channel conductance predominates in the resting β-cell, maintaining the resting Vm near the electrochemical potential (EK) for K+ (~ -80 mV). These potassium channels belong to the inward rectifier (Kir) subfamily. They obtain their name since these channels conduct K + current into the cell more readily than to the outside of the cell (inward rectification, as a diode). KATP channels are, however, weak inward rectifiers because they pass a significant amount of current in the outward direction. At -70 mV open KATP channels carry a small amount of outward current, which maintains the hyperpolarized resting potential in the β-cells. A myriad of biochemical and biophysical structure-function studies of recombinant Kir channels has led to a more complete understanding of these channels. The crystal structure of a bacterial Kir analog, the Streptomyces lividens KcSA channel, has been determined ; and
