Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


Kir channels has led to a more complete understanding of these channels. The crystal structure of a bacterial Kir analog, the Streptomyces lividens KcSA channel, has been determined ; and the inner pore of a mammalian Kir has likewise been crystallized, and its structure determined . The structures revealed that Kir channels consist of four subunits: each folds into the membrane to define two transmembrane domains (M1 and M2) surrounding a pore loop (P). The four P-loops line the central ion-conducting pore with the M1 and M2 subunits providing outer supports (Figure 4). Elevation of glucose concentration to >8-10 mM results in depolarization of the β-cell. Glucose is taken up into the β-cell by the GLUT2 transporter and metabolized via glucokinase, glycolysis and in mitochondria to generate ATP. This alters the ATP/ADP ratio, which causes closure of KATP channels and depolarization of the cell via the decreased K + permeability. ATP inhibits KATP channels and ADP opens them . Other nucleotides generated by glucose metabolism (Ap3A: diadenosine triphosphate, and Ap4A: diadenosine tetraphosphate) have been implicated as second messengers mediating the closure of KATP channels, but their significance remains uncertain. Mutations in either the Kir, or SUR1, can result in persistent activation, leading to neonatal hyperinsulinemia and hypoglycemia . It is also known that some Kir channels in β-cells are activated via G-protein coupled receptors as reviewed below. Figure 4 . Kir channels. KATP channels are unique in the inward rectifier family because they require an auxiliary subunit, the sulfonylurea receptor (SUR1), to function. The SUR1 is a member of the ATP binding cassette (ABC) family of membrane proteins, which includes the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) chloride channel among others . It was named due to its binding to iodinated glyburide but clearly it is not actually an sufonylurea receptor. KATP channels in the β-cell consists of Kir6.2 subunits surrounded by their accompanying SUR1 subunit (not shown). Pioneering studies by Katz, Miledi, and Douglas first established intracellular Ca 2+ concentrations as a general coupling factor between membrane depolarization and vesicular exocytosis ; this mechanism operates in β-cells (for review, see ). Voltage dependent Ca 2+ channels (Cav) open on membrane depolarization as caused by Kir channel closure; and it is this Ca 2+ influx that leads in turn to exocytosis of the glucose-regulated secretory granules and insulin secretion. Cav channels are classified one the basis of a low-voltage threshold
