Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


is this Ca 2+ influx that leads in turn to exocytosis of the glucose-regulated secretory granules and insulin secretion. Cav channels are classified one the basis of a low-voltage threshold (LV: activated at more negative potentials) or high-voltage threshold (HV: activated at relatively depolarized potentials). HV channels can be further divided into subclasses: L, N, P, Q, and R . Insulin secretion is inhibited by dihydropyridine-based calcium-channel blocking agents, which inhibit L-type Cav. Although activators of L-type Cav can stimulate insulin secretion, Cav1.3 KO mice exhibited perturbed islet function resulting in glucose intolerance; these mice were smaller than controls and yet maintained glucose-dependent insulin secretion . This phenotype is likely to be secondary either to upregulation of other Cav1.2 channels or to the existence of other mechanisms of insulin secretion unreliant on voltage gated channels as discussed next. It has been suggested that the neuronal type of Ca channels play a direct role in exocytosis . Several hormones and neurotransmitters regulate insulin secretion in addition to the voltage-sensitive pathways. Molecules such as epinephrine, galanin, somatostatin, acetylcholine, and glucagon-like peptide (GLP) each contribute to the regulation of insulin secretion by binding to cognate receptors . Cholecystokinin (CCK receptor pathway) and acetylcholine (M3 receptor in β-cells) potentiate insulin secretion via phosphoinositide catabolism with the subsequent mobilization of intracellular calcium ions. These ligands bind to G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) that can activate phospholipase-C (PLC) . PLC-catalyzed hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP 2 ) produces inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate (IP 3 ) and diacylglycerol (DAG). Two families of Ca 2+ channels are present on the ER and rER: IP3 receptors and ryanodine receptors (RyR). Each is capable of causing the release of Ca 2+ ions stored in the ER. DAG concomitantly activates protein kinase (PKC). Other potentiators of insulin secretion, such as GLP-1, and glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP), bind to their respective cognate GPCRs to activate adenyl cyclase and increase intracellular cAMP, which in turn activates protein kinase A (PKA). Stimulation of either PKC or PKA alters second-messenger systems in the β-cell and can chemically modify ion channels to influence insulin secretion. In fact, insulin exocytosis can be induced independently from Ca 2+ fluxes in in vitro studies through intracellular application of GTP or nucleotide analogs GppNHp and GTP S. Specific proteins are also likely to be involved in the interaction of secretory vesicles with the plasma membrane. Pairing proteins on the vesicle membrane (v-SNARES) have
