Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


GppNHp and GTP S. Specific proteins are also likely to be involved in the interaction of secretory vesicles with the plasma membrane. Pairing proteins on the vesicle membrane (v-SNARES) have been found to tightly interact with cognate proteins on the target membrane (t-SNARES). Cytosolic cofactors such as N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor (NSF) and α /β-SNAP may assist with ATP binding and hydrolysis to cause exocytosis . In addition to voltage-sensitive pathways and GPCRs, the monomeric G-proteins (such as Rab27 and Rab3 ) may activate second-messenger cascades resulting in exocytosis; and multiple Ca 2+ -binding proteins (such as synaptotagmin ) may further regulate vesicle fusion. It is clear that the process of insulin secretion is highly complex; and research continues to provide new insights into β-cell molecular biology and electrophysiology. Such studies promise to provide a better understanding of insulin action and its deregulation in DM. INSULIN STRUCTURE The three-dimensional structure of insulin has been studied in great detail in crystals by X-ray diffraction and in solution by NMR spectroscopy . Such studies have yielded valuable information regarding the folding of proinsulin and function of insulin . As previously mentioned, insulin was first crystallized in rhombohedral form in 1926 ; and almost 10 years later Scott elucidated the importance of zinc ions and other divalent cations in crystallization . In 1969 the structure of hexameric 2-Zn insulin (designated T 6 in modern nomenclature ) was determined by Dorothy C. Hodgkin and coworkers using X-ray methods ; this structure and was later refined to atomic resolution . Currently there are several crystal forms of insulin, defining three structural families of hexamers (T 6 , T 3 R f 3 , and R 6 ) , zinc-free dimers (T 2 ) , and monomeric fragments . These families are shown in schematic form in Figure 5A and as ribbon models in Figure 5B; models of the component T-state protomer and R-state protomer are shown in Figure 6. The solution structure of engineered insulin monomers and dimers resembles the crystallographic T state . Figure 5 . Structural families of insulin hexamers. A, Schematic representation of the three types of zinc insulin hexamers, designated T 6 , T 3 R f 3 , and R 6 . B, Corresponding ribbon representation of wild-type crystal structures. Axial zinc ions are shown in blue-gray . Coordinates were obtained from Protein Databank entries 4INS , 1TRZ, and 1ZNJ, respectively. Residues
