Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


B, Corresponding ribbon representation of wild-type crystal structures. Axial zinc ions are shown in blue-gray . Coordinates were obtained from Protein Databank entries 4INS , 1TRZ, and 1ZNJ, respectively. Residues B1-B8 exhibit a change in secondary structure as shown in black . T-state protomers are otherwise shown in red , and R-state protomers in blue . For cylinder models of the T- and R-state protomers, see Figure 6 below. This figure is reprinted by Ref with permission of the authors. The T 6 insulin hexamer (MW ~36000 Da) consists of six molecules of insulin arranged as three dimeric units related by a threefold symmetry axis . The dimers (MW ~12000) possess a pseudo twofold symmetry axis, which is perpendicular to the threefold axis of rotation. Although each protomer within the dimers has similar main-chain structure, they are not identical in the arrangement of certain side chains, breaking the twofold symmetry. The most obvious difference is that the side chain of Phe B25 is folded in towards the hydrophobic core in one protomer but outwards in the other . Two axial Zn 2+ atoms lie on the threefold symmetry axis of the hexamer; each exhibits octahedral coordination by three His B10 residues and three water molecules. The T 6 insulin structure defines hydrophobic, solvent-exposed, and potential binding surfaces of insulin. This characterization has been supported by NMR-based solution structures of the insulin hexamer , engineered dimer , and engineered monomer . Many additional X-ray structures of insulin , insulin derivatives and insulins of other species, such as the Atlantic hagfish ( Myxine glutinosa ), a variant insulin containing a substitution (His B10 Asn) that prevents zinc binding and hexamer formation . In most of these instances the insulin, or derivative, maintains an overall tertiary structure that corresponds well with the protomers in the T 6 structure. For this reason the T 6 insulin hexamer widely been employed as the prototypic insulin structure. An emerging theme of such studies is that classical crystal structure of the free hormone (T state) depicts spatial relationships pertinent to the folding pathway of proinsulin whereas a key subset of such relationships are altered or broken on receptor binding . The relevance of the crystallographic R state to receptor binding continues to be a source of speculation . Figure 6 . Classical T and R structures of insulin. Ribbon models of TR dimer based on crystal structures
