Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


to receptor binding continues to be a source of speculation . Figure 6 . Classical T and R structures of insulin. Ribbon models of TR dimer based on crystal structures of zinc insulin hexamers. The B chain is shown in black and A chain in green. The position of Gly B8 is shown as a red ball in T-state-specific β -turn (left) or R-state-specific α helix (right). D-amino-acid substitutions at B8 stabilize the T-state but block receptor binding whereas L-amino-acid substitutions destabilize the T-state but can be highly active . The structure of insulin as an engineered monomer in solution resembles the T state. This figure is reprinted from the Supplement to Ref with permission of the author. Insulin exists primarily as a monomer at low concentrations (~10 -6 M) and forms dimers at higher concentrations at neutral pH . At high concentrations and in the presence of zinc ions, insulin forms hexameric complexes . We shall begin with a discussion of the insulin monomer, which is the circulating state of the molecule in plasma, and then discuss its self-assembly. This section culminates with a description of the IR and evidence for a novel receptor-bound conformation of insulin . THE INSULIN MONOMER The A- and B chains of insulin (individually illustrated in Figures 7a and b, respectively) exhibit extensive secondary structure despite their limited lengths (Figure 3). The A chain consists of two α -helical segments (A1-A8 and A12-A19) that are nearly antiparallel. These helices are connected by a non-canonical turn (residues A9-A12), bringing into proximity the N- and C-chain termini. The B chain (Figure 7b) contains central α -helix (residues B9-B19) flanked by disulfide bridges (cystines A7-B7 and A20-B19) and β -turns (B7-B10 and B20-B23); residues B1-B5 are extended in the T state . Each β -turn contains at least one conserved Gly with positive dihedral angle (residues B8, B20, and B23). The B7-B10 β-turn enables the side chain of His B5 to interact with the central region of the A chain I association with cysteine A7-B7. The B20-B23 β -turn orients the C-terminal segment of the B-chain (residues B23-B30) in close proximity and antiparallel to the central B-chain α -helix. Residues B24-B28 have a β-strand structure. The conserved aromatic side chains of Phe B24 and Tyr B26 are in contact with Leu B11 , Val B12 and Leu B15 of the central B-chain α -helix, defining an α
