Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


aromatic side chains of Phe B24 and Tyr B26 are in contact with Leu B11 , Val B12 and Leu B15 of the central B-chain α -helix, defining an α -turn- β supersecondary structure. Figure 7 . The structures of insulin A- and B-chains. The figure illustrates insulin A-chain (a) and B-chain (b) as determined from the three-dimensional X-ray analysis of the T 6 hexamer (2-Zn insulin). Both chains are viewed perpendicular to the threefold symmetry axis of the insulin hexamer (see text). Joining of the A- and B-chain buries the sulfur atoms of cystines A6-A11 and A20-B19 as well as the nonpolar side chains of Ile A2 , Val A3 , Leu A16 , Tyr A19 , Leu B6 , Leu B11 , and Leu B15 . The edge of the hydrophobic core in part exposes Val A3 , Ile A13 , Val B12 , Val B18 , Phe B24 , and Tyr B26 . Together, these conserved residues contribute to the stability of the native structure. The latter residues also contribute to the surface of the molecule that is partially exposed to solvent in the monomer and involved in dimerization or hexamer assembly discussed below. The conserved Phe at position B25 is of special interest. Whereas in the T state its main chain amide group hydrogen bonds to the carbonyl oxygen of Tyr A19 , the side chain can adopt different orientations (Figure 8). In molecule I Phe B25 is folded against the hydrophobic core of the same protomer but in molecule II the aromatic ring is displace outward. The actual orientation of Phe B25 in solution is likely an intermediate conformation .Molecules I and II also display notable differences in A-chain structure. Subtle differences between the two molecules of the dimer are also seen in the pattern of hydrogen bonds in the N-terminal A-chain α -helix (A1-A8). These differences are accentuated in the TR transition (below) and may foreshadow the mechanism of induced fit on receptor binding . Such findings illustrate the general principle that insulin (like other globular proteins) exhibits highly organized structure that may nonetheless undergo adjustments on assembly or interactions with ligands or other proteins. Figure 8 . Structural illustration of the monomer-monomer interface in the insulin dimer. The dimer is viewed along the crystallographic 2-fold axis. The side chains of residues Val B12 , Leu B15 , Phe B24 , Phe B25 ,
