Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


in the insulin dimer. The dimer is viewed along the crystallographic 2-fold axis. The side chains of residues Val B12 , Leu B15 , Phe B24 , Phe B25 , and Tyr B26 which form the core of the insulin dimer are illustrated in the figures (not labeled: Pro B28 ). Four main-chain hydrogen bonds are formed from the main-chain atoms of Phe B24 and Tyr B26 are illustrated as dotted lines. In the panel (b) is a magnified view of the dimer interface in panel (a). INSULIN SELF-ASSEMBLY Dimerization. The T 6 insulin hexamer contains three dimers in which molecules I and II form an extensive nonpolar interface (Figure 8a). The C-terminal segments of each B-chain come together to form an antiparallel β-sheet (residues B24-B28 and its dimer-related mates). This sheet, containing four intermolecular main-chain hydrogen bonds, is further stabilized by hydrophobic interactions involving the side chains of Val B12 , Tyr B16 , Phe B24 , Tyr B26 , Pro B28 , and to some extent, Phe B25 (Figure 8b). These residues are shielded from contact with solvent (with the exception of Phe B25 ).Although dimerization is associated with local and non-local damping of conformational fluctuations within the protein (relative to the isolated monomer) , an entropic drive is obtained from desolvation of non-polar surfaces, predicted to liberate bound water molecules into the bulk solution . Dimerization does not require zinc ions and exhibits a dissociation constant K d of approximately 10 -5 M . Hexamer Formation . In the presence of Zn 2+ , insulin dimers associate to form hexameric units coordinated by two zinc ions within the central axis of the hexamer (Figure 6). These axial Zn 2+ ions are coordinated to the imidazole groups of His B10 (three per zinc ion) and in a particular instance to His B5 . Several hexameric forms of insulin have been crystallized of which the classical T 6 structure (“2-Zn insulin” ) remains the prototype . In the this hexamer three dimers are related by a 3-fold symmetry axis, which is located in the hydrophilic pore at the center of the hexameric unit that connects the two Zn 2+ ions . Each zinc ion is octahedrally coordinated to three His B10 imidazole nitrogens and three water molecules. The three-fold symmetry axis is perpendicular to the approximate two-fold symmetry axis of the dimers. Contacts between dimers in the hexamer are
