Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


His B10 imidazole nitrogens and three water molecules. The three-fold symmetry axis is perpendicular to the approximate two-fold symmetry axis of the dimers. Contacts between dimers in the hexamer are less extensive than contacts between protomers within the dimer . The T 6 hexamer is approximately 50 Å in diameter and 35 Å in height . Allostery among Hexamers . In crystals and in solution insulin forms three structural families of hexamers (T 6 , T 3 R f 3 , and R 6 ). The equilibrium between these structures is modulated by salt concentration and the binding of phenolic ligands (which favors the R state or frayed R f state). The T 3 R f 3 hexamer (formerly designated 4-Zn insulin with rhombohedral crystal form) and R 6 hexamer are arranged similarly to the classical T 6 hexamer in overall aspects. The local and non-local structural rearrangements among these three families of hexamers are collectively designated the TR transition . Molecular analysis of this transition has provided an influential biophysical model for the propagation of conformational change in protein assemblies . Because elements of the TR transition may also pertain to the mechanism of receptor binding (below), we shall describe salient features of the T 3 R f 3 , and R 6 hexamers in turn. T 3 R f 3 Hexamers (4-Zn Insulin). The classical “rhombohedral transition” of zinc insulin crystals was induced by high concentrations of sodium chloride . The structural basis of this transition was elucidated by D. C. Hodgkin and coworkers in 1976 . Each dimeric unit consists of one molecule I and one molecule II monomer. Whereas in the hexamer the molecule I trimer (T 3 ) has the same octahedral zinc-ion coordination as in the T 6 hexamer, the molecule II trimer (R f 3 ) exhibits substantial, however, displays structural reorganization. The N-terminal B-chain residues B3-B8 (with “fraying” of flexible terminal residues B1 and B2) forms a continuous extension of the central B9-B19 α -helix. This transition in secondary structure, which entails a movement of more than 25 Å at B1 , is coupled to a change in coordination of the second axial zinc ion from octahedral to tetrahedral; the stoichiometry of zinc ions per hexamer is on average 2.67 . The TR transition also causes a rotation of the A1-A8 α -helix (thus requiring a reorganization of the details of side-chain
