Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


zinc ions per hexamer is on average 2.67 . The TR transition also causes a rotation of the A1-A8 α -helix (thus requiring a reorganization of the details of side-chain packing in the hydrophobic core and change in conformation of the A7-B7 disulfide bridge) and small displacement of the B24-B28 β -strand away from the A chain, breaking the main-chain hydrogen bond between Phe B25 and Tyr A19 . Similar T 3 R f 3 hexamers may be induced at lower salt concentrations by phenolic ligands wherein the R f 3 trimer contains three bound phenolic molecules . R 6 Hexamers. High concentrations of phenolic ligands induce a further conformation change to form the R 6 hexamer . The hexamer contains six (or uncommonly seven) bound phenolic ligands. Crystal forms exist which exhibit rigorous sixfold symmetry or which contain six independent protomers in the asymmetric unit with only quasi-sixfold symmetry. In the R 6 hexamer each protomer contains a continuous B1-B19 α -helix and breakage of the B25-A19 main-chain hydrogen bond association with a small displacement of the B-chain C-terminus segment from the A chain. The specific binding site for the phenolic ligand does not pre-exist in the T 6 structure but is may occur in nascent form as part of an extended conformational equilibrium among the three hexamer types. In this R-state-specific binding pocket two hydrogen bonds engage the phenolic hydroxyl group from the A6 carbonyl oxygen and A11 amide hydrogen. The side chain of His B5 packs against each phenolic molecule. Tetrahedral coordination of the zinc ions resembles that of the salt-induced R f 3 trimer of 4-Zn insulin (above) . Although the TR transition was originally defined in the crystalline state, spectroscopic studies have verified that an analogous equilibrium exists in solution . This conformational transition of B-chain secondary structure has been studied extensively in solutions of hexameric insulin by monitoring changes in the coordination of Co 2+ (Ni 2+ and Co 2+ also form hexamers) from octahedral to tetrahedral using visible-absorbance spectroscopy , changes in α -helical content detected using circular dichroism , or 2D-NMR . The solution structure of the phenol-stabilized R 6 hexamer resembles the crystal structure . In addition to the clues provided by the TR transition with respect to the mechanism of receptor binding (next section), the phenol-stabilized R 6 hexamer exhibits augmented thermodynamic and kinetic stability relative to the T6 hexamer.
