Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


by the TR transition with respect to the mechanism of receptor binding (next section), the phenol-stabilized R 6 hexamer exhibits augmented thermodynamic and kinetic stability relative to the T6 hexamer. Retarding physical- and chemical degradation of the polypeptide chains, these favorable biophysical properties have been exploited in pharmaceutical formulations to increase the shelf-life of insulin products . Because phenolic ligands were traditionally employed in insulin formulations due to their bacteriostatic properties , their additional role as protein-stabilizing agents and their elegant structural role in the hexamer represents the value of serendipity as a source of therapeutic advance . INSULIN STRUCTURE-FUNCTION RELATIONSHIPS It is the insulin monomer that binds to and triggers the insulin receptor. A key unresolved issue is the extent to which the monomer undergoes a change in conformation on binding to the insulin receptor. It is likely that the molecular understanding of how insulin binds were be deepened in the next five years through advances in structural biology of the insulin receptor . The predominance of structural information as described above pertains to insulin hexamers as described above. Although of biological relevance (insulin undergoes zinc-dependent hexamer self-assembly and micro-crystallization in the secretory granule of the β -cell ), it is unlikely that a substantial amount of hexamer exists in the plasma wherein the concentration of zinc ions is low. Further, although zinc-free dimers are be present in the portal circulation, progressive dilution of the secreted insulin in the systemic circulation would lead to a predominance of monomeric molecules. NMR studies confirm that the conformation of the free monomer in solution resembles that of the T-state crystallographic protomer , but its flexibility raises the possibility that receptor binding is associated with induced fit. With this caveat in mind, the three-dimensional crystal structure of insulin has nonetheless allowed specific residue positions and side-chain orientations to be related to biological activity. Such analogs have been obtained by synthetic methods , comparison of species variants , and site-directed mutagenesis . Together, such analyses of structure-activity relationships in insulin have yielded an understanding of which residues and positions are necessary for receptor binding . Although such data may be confounded by indirect effects of amino-acid substitutions on the structure of the hormone, overall aspects of the long-sought structure of the hormone-receptor complex have been inferred from photo-cross-linking studies and recently been confirmed in a low-resolution co-crystal structure of insulin bound to a fragment
