Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


aspects of the long-sought structure of the hormone-receptor complex have been inferred from photo-cross-linking studies and recently been confirmed in a low-resolution co-crystal structure of insulin bound to a fragment of the receptor ectodomain . Several assays have been used to determine the binding potency of insulin analogs such as (a) the in vivo mouse convulsion assay, (b) in vitro receptor binding studies of analogs in competition with radio-iodinated insulin, and (c) by the ability of insulin analogs to enhance 14 C-glucose oxidation, or conversion of 3 H-glucose into lipids in adipocytes . Most of these studies show a strong correlation between receptor binding and biological activity , except for high-binding affinity analogs (>120%) which show only 100% activity in vivo probably due to rapid clearance or very low-binding analogs which may accumulate at the cell surface and generate a higher-than-expected activity due to decreased clearance . Three conserved regions in insulin have been of particular interest in the primary receptor-binding surface of insulin: (i) the N-terminal and C-terminal segments of the A chain (Gly A1 -Ile A2 -Val A3 -Glu A4 and Tyr A19 -Cys A20 -Asn A21 ), (ii) the central α -helix of the B chain (especially Val B12 ) and (iii) and the C-terminal segment of B chain (Phe B24 -Phe B25 -Tyr B26 ). All of these residues are located on or near the surface of insulin and therefore may interact with insulin receptor . This surface is notable for clinical mutations associated with a monogenic syndrome of adult-onset diabetes mellitus. The substitutions are Val A3 Leu (Insulin Wakayama), Phe B24 Ser (Insulin Los Angeles), and Phe B25 Leu (Insulin Chicago) . Whereas the A3 and B25 mutations markedly impair receptor binding, Ser B24 impairs binding by less than tenfold as will be discussed in the final section of this chapter . Evidence for the proximity of these three surfaces to the insulin receptor has been obtained by residue-specific photo-cross-linking studies . The above surfaces of insulin are classified as its “Site-1” related binding surface by DeMeyts and colleagues in relation to a proposed “Site-2” related surface . Sites 1 and 2 pertain to a proposed architecture and mode of binding of the insulin receptor . The putative Site-2 related surface of insulin, although not rigorously established in the hormone-receptor complex, is proposed to correspond to its hexamer-forming surface, including residues His B10 , Leu
