Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


. The putative Site-2 related surface of insulin, although not rigorously established in the hormone-receptor complex, is proposed to correspond to its hexamer-forming surface, including residues His B10 , Leu B17 , Val B18 , Ser A12 , Leu A13 and Glu A17 . Substitutions in Site 2 affect the kinetic properties of hormone binding disproportionately to effects on affinity. Such kinetic properties (related to the residence time of the hormone-receptor complex) correlate with relative post-receptor signaling pathways; prolonged residence times favor mitogenic signaling relative to metabolic signaling . Although the location of Site 2 in the ectodomain of the insulin receptor is not well defined, such interactions are likely to be of pharmacological interest in relation to the risk of cancer in patients exposed to high doses of insulin . We discuss in turn structure-activity relationships in the A- and B chains and conclude this section with a brief summary of structural relationships in the ectodomain of the insulin receptor. A-Chain Analysis. The low-resolution structure of insulin bound to a fragment of the receptor strongly suggests that the A chain retains its native secondary structure (with two α -helices) and tertiary U-shaped structure on receptor binding . The N-terminal residues of the A chain are conserved among vertebrate insulins and have been extensively investigated for their relevance in ligand receptor interactions. N-acetylation of the A-chain N-terminus results in a reduction of receptor binding to approximately 30%, suggesting the importance of a positively charged free amino group at A1 . Deletion of Gly A1 also results in a reduction in receptor binding to 15% of native hormone. Substitution of Gly A1 by diverse L-amino acids results in analogs having reduced binding of 2-20% whereas D-substitutions are well tolerated . The precise size, shape and hydrophobicity of Ile A2 and Val A3 are stringently required for high-affinity receptor binding . The A2 and A3 side chains adjoin the C-terminal α -helix of the receptor α -subunit (designated α CT; see below) in the low-resolution structure of insulin bound to a receptor fragment . Although the details of side-chain packing were not resolved, a nonpolar interface is implied by the predicted registry of the respective α -helices at this interface. Such contacts are in accord with photo-cross-linking studies . The invariant C-terminal A-chain residues (Tyr A19 -Cys A20 -Asn A21 ) have also been studied and may have dual roles in structure
