Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


are in accord with photo-cross-linking studies . The invariant C-terminal A-chain residues (Tyr A19 -Cys A20 -Asn A21 ) have also been studied and may have dual roles in structure and function. Whereas the primary role of Tyr A19 is likely to be structural through its long-range packing with the side chain of Ile A2 , the para -OH group of Tyr A19 is exposed to solvent and may contact the receptor. Substitution by Phe or Trp or modification of the ring by mono- or diiodination impairs activity. (The other tyrosine in the A-chain (Tyr A14 ) is not conserved and may be modified with little change in activity .) Removal also impairs activity but substitutions are well tolerated. In the crystal structure the A21 main-chain amide donates a hydrogen bond to the main-chain carbonyl of Gly B23 , and Katsoyannis and colleagues have provided elegant evidence (based on the inductive effect of fluoro-substitutions) that the strength of this hydrogen bond contributes to the efficiency of disulfide pairing in chain combination . The side chain of Asn A21 was not well defined in the low-resolution structure of insulin bound to a receptor fragment . B-Chain Analysis . The B chain of insulin has been more extensively studied than the A chain, particularly with respect to the TR transition (B1-B8) and receptor-binding determinants in the C-terminal β -strand (B24-B28) . Although neither of these segments was well visualized in the low-resolution structure of insulin bound to a receptor fragment , their absence is likely to reflect technical features of the model system (such as disorder in the co-crystals or absence of the fibronectin-homology receptor domains; see below). Nonetheless, the relative positions of structural elements in the low-resolution co-crystal structure suggests that the B chain (unlike the A chain) undergoes a change in conformation involving its unseen N- and C-terminal segments. The immediate N-terminal B-chain residues (Phe B1 -Val B2 -Asn B3 -Gln B4 ) can be deleted with only modest reductions in biological activity (60-70% that of insulin in lowering blood glucose in rabbits) . These results suggested that the N-terminal four residues are of limited significance in the hormone-receptor complex. By contrast, successive removal of His B5 results in an analog, des -pentapeptide(B1-B5)insulin, that possesses only 15% activity . Further deletion of Leu B6 results in a compound with < 1% binding affinity; and substitution of Leu B6 by other
