Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


analog, des -pentapeptide(B1-B5)insulin, that possesses only 15% activity . Further deletion of Leu B6 results in a compound with < 1% binding affinity; and substitution of Leu B6 by other amino acids (Gly, Ala, and Phe) in full-length insulin results in reduced binding [< 0.1%-10%] in the order presented . Cystine A7-B7 lies on the surface of the free insulin monomer and may in principle contribute to receptor binding. Evidence for the importance of Gly B8 to the biological activity of insulin has been obtained by non-standard mutagenesis . This position represents the crux of the TR transition. In the T-state Gly B8 lies at the junction between the central α -helix of the B-chain (as part of the B7-B10 β -turn) and its N-terminal segment whereas in the R state Gly B8 (like His B5 ) is part of an extended α -helix. Gly B8 exhibits different dihedral angles in the two states: positive in the T-specific β -turn and negative in the R-specific α -helix. Substitution of Gly B8 by D- (or L-) amino acids leads to stereospecific stabilization (or destabilization) of the T-state. Remarkably, the stabilizing D-substitutions markedly impair receptor binding . This impairment is associated with a shift in the conformational equilibrium among T 6 , T 3 R f 3 , and R 6 hexamers favoring the T-state . The low biological activity of such nonstandard analogs is ascribed to stabilization of a native-like but inactive T-state conformation . In four different low-resolution structures of insulin or insulin analogs bound to a receptor fragment , the inferred dihedral angle of Gly B8 appears to be R-like in three of the structures and T-like in the remaining structure. It is possible that Gly B8 is a site of conformational change in the hormone-receptor complex but not coupled to an R-like α -helical transition of residues B1-B7. An alternative possibility is that a Gly B8 “switch” functions to adjust the conformation of cystine A7-B7 and in turn optimize the spatial relationship between the central B-chain α -helix and N-terminal A-chain α -helix. Importance of the B-Chain COOH-terminus. The B-chain C-terminal β -strand is the most extensively investigated region of insulin. Deletion analysis has revealed that the C-terminal residues Tyr B26 , Thr B27 , Pro B28 , Lys B29 , and Thr B30 may be removed; the resulting analog des -pentapeptide(B26-B30)-insulin-amide (i.e., lacking a C-terminal carboxylate) is
