Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


residues Tyr B26 , Thr B27 , Pro B28 , Lys B29 , and Thr B30 may be removed; the resulting analog des -pentapeptide(B26-B30)-insulin-amide (i.e., lacking a C-terminal carboxylate) is fully active . This and related truncated templates have been widely employed in studies of structure-activity relationships and for synthesis of a pioneering B25-specific photo-cross-linking reagent by Katsoyannis and colleagues . The C-terminal five residues are nonetheless necessary for dimerization and hexamer formation . Crystal and NMR-based structures of such truncated analogs retain native-like structures in the α -helical core of the protein . Despite the dispensability of residues B26-B30 for receptor binding, successive removal of Phe B25 and Phe B25 (with analogous C-terminal amidation) progressively impairs receptor binding (relative affinities 6% and 0.2% binding, respectively) . Photo-cross-linking studies have provided evidence that these side chains contact the insulin receptor and may also provide sites of conformational change . Phe B24 . The aromatic ring of Phe B24 stabilizes the B20-B23 β -turn and seals one edge of the hydrophobic core adjoining cysteine A20-B19. The functional importance of Phe B24 is indicated by the efficient photo-cross-linking of a para -azido-Phe B24 probe to insulin receptor and by the low activities of diverse analogs, including Tyr B24 and Ala B24 (each impaired by >50-fold) . Surprisingly, however, substitution of Phe B24 by Gly is well tolerated , and D-amino-acid substitutions can even enhance receptor binding . Although a range of NMR and fluorescence studies of such anomalous analogs have been reported with varying results (which may in part reflect protein flexibility rather than stable elements of structure) , NMR studies of a super-active engineered monomer containing D-Ala B24 have suggested that the main-chain at position B24 may be a site of a conformational change on receptor binding , leading to detachment of the B24-B28 β -strand from the α -helical core of the hormone as long envisaged . Such detachment is supported by the low-resolution co-crystal structure of a model hormone-receptor complex . Interestingly, D-amino-acid substitutions at position B24 impair (rather than enhance) the binding of truncated insulin analogs lacking residues B26-B30 . A possible explanation for this finding is that chiral perturbation is not needed to displace the truncated β -strand whereas the D-side chain itself is less favorably oriented in such analogs. Phe B25 . Photo-reactive insulin analogs containing para -azido-Phe or para -benzoyl-Phe at position B25 efficiently cross-link
