Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


-strand whereas the D-side chain itself is less favorably oriented in such analogs. Phe B25 . Photo-reactive insulin analogs containing para -azido-Phe or para -benzoyl-Phe at position B25 efficiently cross-link to the receptor . For this reason and due to the marked inactivity of Phe B25 Leu (Insulin Chicago) , substitutions of Phe B25 has been extensively studied. High activity requires a trigonal (sp2 hybridized) -carbon as in aromatic side chains rather than a tetrahedral (sp3 hybridized) -carbon as in Leu . Tolerance of β -napthyl-alanine nonetheless suggests that there is room at the hormone-receptor interface for a larger aromatic side chain. Interestingly, the activities of certain low-binding analogs, such as [homo-Phe B25 ]-insulin, are in part rescued when B26-B30 is removed. These experiments suggest that PheB25 may make two contributions to receptor binding: the specific docking of its side chain and as a further site (in addition to B24) of main-chain conformational change leading to detachment of the B-chain C-terminal segment. STRUCTURE OF THE INSULIN RECEPTOR Nearly forty-five years after the structure of insulin was first solved, it is known only in part how insulin binds to its receptor, progress being slowed by the biochemical and structural complexity of the insulin receptor, a heavily-glycosylated disulfide-linked (αβ) 2 dimer. In the biosynthesis of the insulin receptor each pro-receptor monomer is proteolytically cleaved into an N-terminal α -chain and C-terminal β -chain linked by a single disulfide bond. The extracellular portion of the (αβ) 2 dimer includes both α -chains as part of each transmembrane β-chain. Each receptor monomer consists of several structural domains: from the N-terminus, a leucine‑rich repeat domain L1 (residues 1-157), a cysteine‑rich region (CR, residues 158-310) a second leucine‑rich repeat domain L2 (residues 311-470), and three fibronectin type-III domains: FnIII‑1 (residues 471-595), FnIII‑2 (residues 596-808) and FnIII‑3 (residues 809-906). FnIII‑2 contains a ~120‑residue insert domain (ID, residues 638-756) which contains the α / β cleavage site. C‑terminal of the FnIII‑3 domain lies a single transmembrane α -helix, followed by a ~40‑residue intracellular juxtamembrane region (JM), a tyrosine kinase (TK) catalytic domain and a ~100‑residue C‑tail. Crystallographic studies of the free ectodomain by C. Ward and colleagues have shown that the extracellular domain assembles as an inverted “V”; in each protomer the L1-CR-L2 domains forming one leg and the three FnIII domains the other (Figure 9). One protomer is related to the other in the dimer by a
