Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


in each protomer the L1-CR-L2 domains forming one leg and the three FnIII domains the other (Figure 9). One protomer is related to the other in the dimer by a two-fold rotation about the axis of the inverted “V”, resulting in the L1-CR-L2 leg of one monomer being packed against the three FnIII domains of the other. As discussed above, current models envisage that hormone binding is mediated by two adjoining structural elements termed Site 1 and Site 2 . Both sites are required for high-affinity hormone binding and negative cooperativity . Figure 9 . Structure of the free ectodomain of the insulin receptor. The original structure was determined by Ward and colleagues and refined to include the α CT element (magenta within dashed ovals) by Lawrence and colleagues . The disulfide-linked dimer of intact a subunits and truncated β subunits (( αβ ) 2 ) was stabilized by F ab immunoglobulin fragments. The dimeric structure adopts an inverted-V conformation. Abbreviations: α CT, C-terminal α -helical element of the α -subunit; CR, cysteine-rich domain; FnIII-1,2, and 3, fibronectin homology domains 1, 2 and 3; ID α , the portion of the insert domain within the α -subunit; and L1 and L2, large domains 1 and 2. We thank M. C. Lawrence for preparation of the figure (reprinted from the web-based Supplement to Ref with permission). The primary hormone-binding surface is provided by Ste 1, containing two distinct regions: (i) the central of the three β ‑sheets that make up the L1 domain, and (ii) the last 16 residues of the α -chain (the so-called α CT segment). In the intact ectodomain the L1 and α CT elements belong to different α -subunits in the (αβ) 2 dimer. Co-crystals diffracting to 3.9 Å have been obtained of insulin or truncated insulin analogs bound to an L1-CR fragment of the ectodomain together with a synthetic α CT peptide . Interpretation of the electron-density map was aided by modeling based on the known structure of the L1-CR-L2 fragment and the lack of significant structural changes in the complex. Three tubes of electron density were observed fitting the known lengths and orientations of the three α -helices in insulin (the central B-chain α -helix and two A-chain α -helices). The resulting model (Figure 10) is remarkable for its unexpected features. Whereas extensive interactions had been predicted between insulin and L1, the major interface is
