Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


and two A-chain α -helices). The resulting model (Figure 10) is remarkable for its unexpected features. Whereas extensive interactions had been predicted between insulin and L1, the major interface is between insulin and α CT. The role of L1 is to bind and orient the opposite face of α CT. Further, the position and orientation of α CT on the nonpolar surface of L1 differed from its position and orientation in the free ectodomain . Such repositioning is significant as the bound location of α CT is such as to displace residues B26-B30 from their positions in classical structures of insulin. As a further surprise, with the exception of the B-chain C-terminal segment (not visualized in the reported structure), it is the A chain (and not the B chain) that provides the more extensive receptor-binding surface. The key A-chain recognition element comprises A1-A4 as anticipated by mutagenesis and chemical modification as discussed above. Figure 10 . Structure of the “micro-receptor” complex between insulin and a fragment of the insulin receptor . This ternary complex contains an L1-CR fragment of the receptor α -subunit, a synthetic α CT peptide, and insulin. Abbreviations: α CT, C-terminal α -helical element of the α -subunit; CR, cysteine-rich domain; InsA and InsB, respective A- and B chains of insulin; and L1, large domain 1. We thank M. C. Lawrence for preparation of the figure (reprinted from Ref with permission). The current low-resolution structure rationalizes a wealth of prior biochemical data but leaves unanswered many questions. How and why the B chain changes conformation on receptor binding and how such changes may be propagated to effect signal transduction are not clear. Further, because residues B1-B7 were not visualized, the relevance of an R-like transition in secondary structure could not be definitively evaluated. A possible location for Site 2 was suggested when the structure of the insulin receptor ectodomain dimer was determined : loops at the junction of the FnIII‑1 and FnIII‑2 domains from the protomer opposite to that contributing the L1 domain to Site 1. This model is consistent with the "cross-linking" trans binding mechanism of receptor activation . To date no co-crystals have been reported with receptor fragments containing Site 2. MUTATIONS IN THE INSULIN GENE The classical insulopathies (Insulins Chicago, Los Angeles and Wakayama) accumulated in the blood stream as mutant insulins. These all have point mutations that lower receptor binding and biological activity.
