Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


GENE The classical insulopathies (Insulins Chicago, Los Angeles and Wakayama) accumulated in the blood stream as mutant insulins. These all have point mutations that lower receptor binding and biological activity. Rare clinical syndromes result from mutations elsewhere affecting key steps in biosynthesis within the β -cell . A monoallelic genetic mutation resulting in substitution of His B10 by Asp leads to the secretion of a mutant proinsulin (319): Asp B10 -proinsulin (Proinsulin Providence) due to its selectively increased export via constitutive pathways of a significant proportion of the prohormone (approx. 1/3); this fraction thus escapes processing but also undergoes increased endosomal pathway-mediated degradation, resulting in circulating hyperproinsulinemia in a mouse model . No defect was observed in the processing of the fraction of the Asp B10 proinsulin that remained within the regulated secretory pathway. Asp B10 -insulin also exhibits enhanced binding affinity and this property, in its prohormone may be related to its possible mis-sorting, i.e. via insulin receptor mediated intracellular trafficking. Expression in cultured β-cells has confirmed that the mutant proinsulin can be fully processed at normal rates, but a large fraction of unprocessed mutant prohormone is released via an unregulated-constitutive pathway . Proinsulin processing is also impaired when Arg65 of the C-domain dibasic pair (Lys64-Arg65) is mutated to His65 or Leu65 (Proinsulin Boston/Denver/Tokyo and Proinsulin Kyoto, respectively) . In all these cases the defect lies in the inability of processing enzymes (PC3/PC1 and PC2) to cleave at the mutated cleavage site, which leads to the secretion of a partially cleaved intermediate form of proinsulin. Figure 11 . Mutations in the insulin moiety of proinsulin associated with neonatal diabetes mellitus. (A) Such mutations may be classified as cysteine-related or non-cysteine-related. The latter provide probes for structural determinants of the efficiency of disulfide pairing in the redox-coupled folding of nascent proinsulin (for review, see ). It has recently been found that the majority of dominant negative mutations in the insulin gene affecting biosynthesis and folding of the hormone lead to permanent neonatal-onset DM with impaired secretion of the variant or wild-type insulin or proinsulin . Impaired β -cell function often develops prior to maturation of the immune system and so presents as an auto-antigen negative form of apparent Type 1 DM. Dominant mutations in the insulin gene define the second most common genetic cause of permanent neonatal DM (relative to heterozygous activating mutation in a subunit of the β -cell
