Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


DM. Dominant mutations in the insulin gene define the second most common genetic cause of permanent neonatal DM (relative to heterozygous activating mutation in a subunit of the β -cell voltage-gated potassium channel, either KCNJ11 (encoding the Kr6.2 subunit) or ABCC8 (encoding the Sur1 subunit) ). Rarely the β-cells survive for years or even decades in the cases of apparently less damaging insulin mutations, as mentioned below. Mutations in the insulin gene causing neonatal diabetes occur in each region of preproinsulin, including its signal peptide, A-, B- and C domains. The majority result in addition or removal of a cysteine, leading in either case to an odd number of potential pairing sites: the resulting imbalance leads in general to misfolding and aggregation . Mutations identified in the insulin moiety of proinsulin are shown in Figure 11A (sequence) and Figure 11B (structure). One human mutation encodes the same “Akita” substitution (Cys A7 Tyr) as in the Ins2 gene of the Mody4 mouse ; this dominant murine substitution thus provides a relevant model of progressive β -cell failure . The variant murine proinsulin in vitro undergoes partial unfolding with increased aggregation . Analogous perturbations were characterized in human insulin- and proinsulin analogs lacking cystine A7-B7 . Heterozygous expression of a variant Ins2 allele encoding Cys A6 Ser (identified in an N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea screen) likewise induces DM . The identification of identical human and murine mutations at position A7 suggests that the pathogenesis of neonatal DM in these patients is likewise similar to that of the Akita mouse . Biochemical studies of clinical variants in β -cells or neurosecretory cell lines have revealed perturbations in disulfide pairing, which range from severe or mild depending on the site of mutation and the properties of the substituted side chain . Akita β -cells exhibit an early defect in the folding and trafficking of both wild-type and variant proinsulins with elevated markers of ER stress, electron-dense deposits in abnormal ER and GA, mitochondria swelling, and progressive loss of β -cell mass . Extension of such findings to human variants is supported by mouse models of human mutant proinsulin constructs . Figure 12 . Structural features of insulin contributing to foldability. Stereo stick representations of selected regions of the insulin protomer (2-Zn molecule 1; Protein Databank identifier 4INS). Unless otherwise indicated, A-chain is shown in gray and B-chain in black. Selected A-chain side chains are highlighted in color
