Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


the insulin protomer (2-Zn molecule 1; Protein Databank identifier 4INS). Unless otherwise indicated, A-chain is shown in gray and B-chain in black. Selected A-chain side chains are highlighted in color (below); golden balls indicate sulfur atoms of disulfide bridges. (A) Environment of solvent-exposed cystine A7-B7 showing key role of the phi dihedral angle of Gly B8 (arrow), predicted to influence orientation of thiolate B7 to favor disulfide pairing. The side chains of His B5 and Leu B6 are shown in red. (B) Environment of internal cystine A6-A11 highlighting packing of Leu B6 and Ile B11 (red). (C) Environment of internal cystine A20-B19 highlighting packing of A- and B-chain side chains in hydrophobic core: (magenta) Leu A16 and Tyr A19 ; (red) Val B12 , Leu B15 , Gly B23 (ball at C α position), and Phe B24 . Important structural sites not shown: the inter-chain A3-related crevice (lined by Ile A2 , Tyr B26 and Pro B28 ) and T-state-specific tertiary contacts between the N-terminal arm of the B-chain (residues B1-B5) and the A-chain. This figure is adapted from Ref with permission of the author. Whereas an odd number of cysteines presumably induces a severe block to folding, non-cysteine-related mutations are also observed in such patients (Figure 11). Such sites of mutation identify residues whose side chain or main-chain conformation contributes to the efficiency of folding. Selected structural relationships in the native state presumed to direct specific disulfide pairing in the oxidative folding pathway of proinsulin are illustrated in Figure 12. The folding process may be visualized as a series of trajectories on free-energy landscapes of progressive steepness with successive disulfide pairing (Figure 13A). This pathway highlights the importance of cysteine A20-B19 as a key initial folding intermediate associated with partial formation of native-like super-secondary structure as shown at left in Figure 13B . Competing subsequent routes to the native state are likely to yield a variety of partial folds with accessible unpaired cysteines . Aberrant disulfide bond formation between such partial folds may account for the interruption of wild-type proinsulin folding in the presence of a non-foldable clinical variant. Figure 13 . Energy landscape view of proinsulin folding and disulfide pairing. (A) Formation of successive disulfide bridges may be viewed as enabling a sequence of folding trajectories on a succession of steeper funnel-shaped free-energy landscapes. (B) Preferred pathway of disulfide pairing begins with cystine A20-B19 (left), whose pairing is
