Insulin Biosynthesis, Secretion, Structure, and Structure-Activity Relationships
KEYWORDS: insulin, proinsulin, structure, receptor, biol, binding, cell, glucose, diabetes, cells, chem, residues, biol chem, studies, secretion


viewed as enabling a sequence of folding trajectories on a succession of steeper funnel-shaped free-energy landscapes. (B) Preferred pathway of disulfide pairing begins with cystine A20-B19 (left), whose pairing is directed by a nascent hydrophobic core formed by the central B-domain α -helix (residues B9-B19), part of the C-terminal B-chain β -strand (B24-B26), and part of the C-terminal A-domain α -helix (A16-A20). Alternative pathways mediate formation of successive disulfide bridges (middle panel) en route to the native state (right). The mechanism of disulfide pairing is perturbed by clinical mutations associated with misfolding of proinsulin. Sites of non-cysteine-related mutations causing neonatal DM (Figure 11 above) highlight native structural features critical to foldability. Figure is reprinted from Ref with permission of the author. Among these, a few better-tolerated mutations present later in life as auto-antibody-negative presumed Type 1 DM or Type 2 DM. One such mutation, presenting in the second decade as maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY), is due to substitution of Arg B22 by Gln. This mutation alters a solvent-exposed site in the B21-B24 β -turn not required for receptor binding . DM presenting in the third decade of life is associated with substitution of Phe B24 by Ser . This mutation causes only a mild impairing of receptor binding but like Gln B22 imposes ER stress at a level intermediate between over-expression of wild-type proinsulin and neonatal variants. Chronic elevation of more moderate ER stress in β -cells due to subtle mutations in proinsulin (such as substitution of Arg B22 by Gln and the classical SerB24 allele of Insulin Chicago) presumably leads to a slower loss of β -cell mass . Such milder mutations are associated with onset of diabetes later in childhood or early adulthood. Evidence is also accumulating that subtle perturbations of wild-type insulin biosynthesis may contribute to the pathogenesis of non-syndromic Type 2 diabetes as in the Akita mouse . A newly recognized biophysical contribution to such β -cell dysfunction is “molecular crowding” in the ER due to over-expression of nascent proinsulin in the face of peripheral insulin resistance , a concept that may have therapeutic implications . REFERENCES 1. Steiner, D.F. 1967. Evidence for a precursor in the biosynthesis of insulin. Trans. N. Y. Acad. Sci. 30:60-68. 2. Adams, M.J., Blundell, T.L., Dodson, E.J., Dodson, G.G., Vijayan, M., Baker, E.N., Hardine, M.M., Hodgkin, D.C., Rimer, B., and Sheet, S. 1969. Structure of rhombohedral 2 zinc
