Chapter
KEYWORDS: control, disease, leprosy, treatment, onchocerciasis, percent, million, vector, countries, diseases, transmission, chagas, elimination, infected, cost


Tropical Diseases Targeted for Elimination: Chagas Disease, Lymphatic Filariasis, Onchocerciasis, and Leprosy Jan H. F. Remme, Piet Feenstra, P. R. Lever, Andre C. Medici, Chantal M. Morel, Mounkaila Noma, K. D. Ramaiah, Frank Richards, A. Seketeli, Gabriel Schmunis, W.H. van Brakel, and Anna Vassall Tropical diseases are infectious diseases that are found pre- and geographic distribution differ.Chagas disease is caused by dominantly in the tropics,where ecological and socioeconomic infection with a protozoan,leprosy by a mycobacterium,and conditions facilitate their propagation. Climatic, social, and LF and onchocerciasis by filarial nematodes.Three are vector- economic factors create environmental conditions that facili- borne diseases,but leprosy is transmitted directly from person tate transmission, and the lack of resources prevents affected to person. Chagas disease occurs only in the Americas, populations from obtaining effective prevention and adequate onchocerciasis is found predominantly in Africa, and LF and care.Tropical diseases are diseases ofthe poor,and investments leprosy occur in all tropical regions. in control and research to develop more effective intervention tools and strategies have been minimal (Gwatkin,Guillot,and Chagas Disease Heuveline 1999;Remme and others 2002).For some,however, effective intervention methods have been developed,and suc- Chagas disease—also known as American trypanosomiasis— cessful control has been achieved. is a zoonotic disease caused by the protozoan hemoflagellate This chapter focuses on four tropical diseases—Chagas dis- Trypanosoma cruzithat is mainly transmitted by large,blood- ease,lymphatic filariasis (LF),onchocerciasis,and leprosy—for sucking,reduviid bugs ofthe subfamily Triatominae(known as which effective means ofcontrol are available.All four diseases kissing bugs). Infection with this blood parasite has been are targeted for elimination as a public health problem.Control recorded in more than 150 species of 24 families of domestic strategies are being implemented at scale and have already and wild mammals as well as in humans.In the vertebrate host, achieved a major reduction in the burden of disease,and the T.cruziusually infects macrophage,muscle,and nerve cells. causative agent has even been eliminated in some previously Human infection with T. cruzi most commonly originates endemic areas.Those successes have not come easily,and much through contact ofbroken skin or mucosa with the excretion of remains to be done to ensure complete and sustained control of infected insect vectors.The incubation period ranges from 7 to the diseases. 15 days,leading to the acute phase ofinfection—characterized by patent parasitemia—which may last up to four weeks.The DISEASECHARACTERISTICSANDTRANSMISSION acute phase may be without obvious symptoms. Romaña’s sign—that is, uniocular, bipalpebral edema with regional Chagas disease,LF,onchocerciasis,and leprosy are all parasitic lymphadenopathy—is diagnostic of the acute
