Chapter
KEYWORDS: control, disease, leprosy, treatment, onchocerciasis, percent, million, vector, countries, diseases, transmission, chagas, elimination, infected, cost


to four weeks.The DISEASECHARACTERISTICSANDTRANSMISSION acute phase may be without obvious symptoms. Romaña’s sign—that is, uniocular, bipalpebral edema with regional Chagas disease,LF,onchocerciasis,and leprosy are all parasitic lymphadenopathy—is diagnostic of the acute infection but infections, but their causative agents, modes of transmission, occurs in less than 5 percent ofinfections. Ifa recent infection is untreated,the individual will remain more rarely, through contaminated food or infection in the infected for life.After an asymptomatic period of 10 years or laboratory . more, some 10 to 40 percent of those infected will develop cardiac or digestive complications that are characteristic of Lymphatic Filariasis the chronic stage of the disease. In chagasic myocardiopathy LF is caused by species of nematode parasites—Wuchereria the most common symptoms are dyspnea and arrhythmias. bancrofti,Brugia malayi,and Brugia timori—and is transmitted Electrocardiographic alterations can occur,such as right bun- by mosquitoes .The adult filarial parasites live dle branch block,left anterior hemiblock,or both,which may inthe lymphatics ofhumans.After mating,each female worm require a pacemaker implant.Apical aneurisms are also typical produces several thousand offspring, microfilariae, during its ofadvanced chagasic cardiopathy,which may rupture on exces- lifetime.Themicrofilariaearefoundinhumans’internalorgans sive exercise,leading to sudden death.Chagas disease can also and appear in peripheral blood at times that coincide with the involve intestinal complications characterized by severe dilata- vector’s biting activity.The biting mosquito ingests the micro- tions ofparts ofthe digestive tract known as megasyndromes. filariae along with the blood meal, and they develop into Megaesophagus and megacolon are the most common. infective-stage larvae in 10 to 12 days.When an infective mos- Symptoms of megaesophagus are dysphagia and odinophagia quito bites a human,the infective-stage larvae are transmitted and subsequent malnutrition. Chagasic megacolon is charac- to the human host and develop into the adult stage in about terized by constipation and meteorism. As a result of colon one year. The adult parasites live 5 to 10 years, of which the distension and contractions,abdominal pain is frequent, and fecund life span is 4 to 6 years.Several hundreds to thousands fecalomas are a complication. ofinfective mosquito bites are necessary to establish infection. More than 120 species of Triatominae and three transmis- Ofthethreeparasitespecies,W.bancroftiaccountsfornearly sion cycles are recognized.The domestic cycle,responsible for 90 percent of LF infections worldwide.B. malayi is prevalent maintaining infection in humans, occurs mostly in rural or onlyinsomepartsofSouthandSoutheastAsia,andB.timoriis periurban areas where houses have adobe walls and thatched found only in Indonesia. Several species of Culex, Anopheles, roofs.Humans,dogs,cats,and in some countries guinea pigs Aedes,andMansoniamosquitoesareinvolvedinthetransmis- are the main parasite reservoirs
