Chapter
KEYWORDS: control, disease, leprosy, treatment, onchocerciasis, percent, million, vector, countries, diseases, transmission, chagas, elimination, infected, cost


periurban areas where houses have adobe walls and thatched found only in Indonesia. Several species of Culex, Anopheles, roofs.Humans,dogs,cats,and in some countries guinea pigs Aedes,andMansoniamosquitoesareinvolvedinthetransmis- are the main parasite reservoirs in this cycle.The vector lives sion of LF. C. quinquefasciatus is the major vector in Africa, and multiplies in cracks in the walls,holes in the roof,under Asia, and South America and transmits nocturnally periodic and behind furniture and pictures,and so on.The sylvatic cycle W.bancrofti.Amonganophelines,An.gambiaeandAn.funestus involves sylvatic triatomine bugs that become infected and in playasignificantroleinAfrica.SeveralAedesspecies,particu- turn infect rodents, marsupials, and other wild animals. The larlyAe.polynesiensis,arethemajorvectorsintheSouthPacific third is the peridomestic cycle in which mammals participate islands,wherediurnallysubperiodicW.bancroftiiscommon.B. (domestic rodents,marsupials,livestock,cats,dogs) by moving malayi is primarily transmitted by Mansonia and Anopheles freely in and out of human dwellings, and sylvatic bugs are species. attracted to lights in houses and to food. This peridomestic Infected people can harbor microfilaremia without overt cycle acts as a link between the domestic and sylvatic cycles. clinical manifestations.The disease process is determined pri- Occasionally, infected sylvatic species of Triatominae fly into marily by living adult worms,inflammatory responses caused houses and contribute to transmission either by feeding and by the death of adult worms, and secondary bacterial infec- defecating on the people or their domestic animals or (indi- tions.The inflammatory response begins with the death of or rectly) by contaminating food and drink in which the parasites damage to adult worms,which leads to host reaction and acute can survive.In the Amazon region,cases of acute Chagas dis- filarial lymphangitis.A heavy worm burden and the presence ease have been associated with sylvatic Triatominae contami- of worms in the scrotal area precipitate the development of nating sugarcane or fruit juice. hydrocele,chyluria,chylocele,and lymph scrotum.Lymphatic Transmission by blood transfusion is the second-most com- dysfunction caused by dilatation of the lymphatic vessels mon way ofacquiring T.cruziinfection.The true incidence of makes the patient more prone to repeated secondary bacterial infection through blood transfusion is unknown,because most infection, which precipitates lymphedema and elephantiasis. cases are not recognized. In transfusionally acquired T. cruzi Microfilariae play an important role in the pathogenesis of infection, the incubation period is 30 or more days, and the tropical pulmonary eosinophilia (Dreyer and others 2000). most common symptoms are fever, general lymph node enlargement,and splenomegaly (Schmunis and others 2001). Onchocerciasis Transplacental transmission of T.cruzican occur,and esti- mates indicate that5 percent of newborns born to chagasic Onchocerciasis is an infection with the filarial parasite mothers will
