Chapter
KEYWORDS: control, disease, leprosy, treatment, onchocerciasis, percent, million, vector, countries, diseases, transmission, chagas, elimination, infected, cost


(Schmunis and others 2001). Onchocerciasis Transplacental transmission of T.cruzican occur,and esti- mates indicate that5 percent of newborns born to chagasic Onchocerciasis is an infection with the filarial parasite mothers will become infected. Less common routes of trans- Onchocercavolvulus.Themaincomplicationsaresevereeyedis- mission are by transplantation with an infected organ or, ease that can lead to blindness and severe skin disease with 434 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Jan H. F. Remme, Piet Feenstra, P. R. Lever, and others unsightlylesionsandintenseitching(WHO1995a).O.volvulus intracellular parasite that resides predominantly in istransmittedbyvectorblackfliesofthegenusSimulium,whose macrophages. It is the only bacterium that infects peripheral larvae and pupae develop in rapidly flowing,well-oxygenated nerves,showing a preference for Schwann cells,particularly of streamsandrivers.Asaresult,onchocerciasisisoftenknownas unmyelinated fibers. riverblindness.Themostimportantvectorsaremembersofthe The disease spectrum of leprosy ranges from a single self- S.damnosumcomplexinAfricaandtheMiddleEastandS.neavei healing,hypopigmented macule to a generalized illness causing inpartsofEastAfrica.OfthemanyvectorsintheAmericas,the widespread peripheral nerve damage and affecting even bones mostimportantareS.ochraceum,S.metallicum,S.oyapockense, and internal organs. Skin lesions may be well- or ill-defined S.guianense,andS.exiguum. hypopigmented macules,plaques,or nodules that are localized Whentakingabloodmeal,infectedSimuliumvectorsdeposit or distributed over the whole skin.They may be hypaesthetic, one or more infective (third-stage) O. volvulus larvae, which anesthetic, hyperaesthetic, or have normal sensibility. Nerve reachadulthoodinthehumanhostafteraboutayearbutmay lesions occur in dermal nerves as well as in superficial sensory liveaslongas14years.Theadultwormstypicallyentwinein nerves and mixed nerve trunks. One or more nerves may be noduleswheretheymate,producingmicrofilariaethatmigrate enlarged on palpation. Signs such as clawing of fingers and into the skin, eyes, and other organs. These microfilariae are toes,“absorption”of digits caused by repeated injury,and dry unabletodevelopintoadultwormswithoutfirstbeingingested skin are secondary to impairment ofmotor,sensory,and auto- inthebloodmealofablackflyvector.Themicrofilariaetrans- nomic nerve function. forminthevectoroveraperiodof6to12daystoproducethe A diagnosis of leprosy is based on finding at least one of third-stagelarvaethatareinfectivetohumans. three so-called cardinal signs : The thousands ofmicrofilariae that do not succeed in reach- ing a blackfly vector die in the human body,provoking inflam- • diminished sensibility in a typical macule or plaque in the matory reactions in tissues.Inflammation in the eyes leads to skin irreversible ocular lesions,resulting first in impaired vision and • palpable enlargement of one or more peripheral nerve finally in total blindness .The death ofmicrofi- trunks at specific sites lariae in the skin gives rise to intense itching,dermatitis,depig- • demonstration ofacid-fast mycobacteria in a slit skin smear. mentation, and atrophy of the skin (Murdoch and others may lead to hanging groin and elephantiasis ofthe genitals,and but skin smear results are taken into account when available. increasing evidence indicates that onchocerciasis is a risk factor Patients who have more than five skin lesions or who
