Chapter
KEYWORDS: control, disease, leprosy, treatment, onchocerciasis, percent, million, vector, countries, diseases, transmission, chagas, elimination, infected, cost


genitals,and but skin smear results are taken into account when available. increasing evidence indicates that onchocerciasis is a risk factor Patients who have more than five skin lesions or who have a for epilepsy and hyposexual dwarfism in certain areas positive skin smear are classified as multibacillary; others are (Boussinesq and others 2002).The greater is the body load of classified as paucibacillary. adult worms and microfilariae,the greater is the risk ofdevel- The skin signs of leprosy are relatively harmless,but com- oping skin and eye disease. plications ofthe disease may lead to severe consequences,such The disease pattern of onchocerciasis—in particular the as blindness,infertility,disfigurement,and severe sensory and severity of ocular disease—varies considerably between geo- motor disability.Reactions—that is,episodes of acute inflam- graphiczones.Onchocercalblindnesscanbeextensiveinhyper- mation caused by hypersensitivity to bacterial antigens—can endemiccommunitiesoftheWestAfricansavannas,whereasin be particularly severe.Patients can develop nerve damage with- forestvillageswithacomparableintensityofinfection,theskin out any obvious sign of these reactions,but after neuropathy manifestationstendtobethemaincomplicationsofthedisease has become irreversible,it may lead to secondary impairments, (Dadzieandothers1989;Murdochandothers2002).Thesedif- such as wounds, contractures, and shortening of digits. As a ferences may reflect the existence of different vector-parasite result ofvisible impairments or activity limitations—or simply complexes,withstrainsofO.volvulusthatdifferinpathogenic- because of the diagnosis of leprosy—many people experience ity (Zimmerman and others 1992). The vector-parasite com- psychosocial problems (van Brakel 2000). plex in the West African savanna is responsible for the most The exact mode oftransmission ofM.lepraeis still not fully severeformofocularonchocerciasisintheworld:inthemost understood,but the respiratory tract seems to play an impor- affectedvillages,morethan10percentofthepopulationmaybe tant role.The primary reservoir ofinfection is the human host. blindbecauseofonchocerciasis. Untreated multibacillary leprosy patients are able to shed large amounts ofM.lepraefrom the nose,and household and social contacts of such patients are at a higher risk of developing Leprosy leprosy than the general population (van Beers, Hatta, and Leprosy is caused by Mycobacterium leprae, a gram-positive, Klatser 1999).M.leprae–specific DNA sequences have been iso- strongly acid-fast bacterium. M. leprae is an obligate, lated from the noses of apparently healthy individuals, and Tropical Diseases Targeted for Elimination: Chagas Disease, Lymphatic Filariasis, Onchocerciasis, and Leprosy | 435 widespread seropositivity against M. leprae–specific antigens year per patient, and disability awards, which in one state has been demonstrated in endemic areas,although the role of accounted for US$399,600 (Dias 1987; Schofield and Dias these individuals in transmitting leprosy is not fully under- 1991).In Bolivia,in 1992,aggregate treatment costs were esti- stood.Effective antileprosy treatment usually renders a patient mated at US$21 million.In Chile,in 1997,aggregate treatment noninfectious within a few days. costs for Chagas disease were estimated at
