Chapter
KEYWORDS: control, disease, leprosy, treatment, onchocerciasis, percent, million, vector, countries, diseases, transmission, chagas, elimination, infected, cost


17.7 million people were infected, of whom up ofpatient registers. about 270,000 were blind and another 500,000 were severely Leprosy is reported from all regions of the world, but the visually impaired . However, more recent burden ofdisease,which is estimated at 192,000 DALYs,is con- information from rapid epidemiological mapping of centrated in a few countries.During 2003,513,798 new cases onchocerciasis (Noma and others 2002) by the African were detected,of which more than 80 percent were in Brazil, Programme for Onchocerciasis Control (APOC) indicates India,Madagascar,Mozambique,Nepal,and Tanzania (WHO that the number of those infected is twice as high and that 2004a).India alone accounted for about 75 percent ofthe new some 37 million people were infected in 1995. This revised cases.Case detection has remained remarkably stable over the estimatecorrespondstoanestimated1.99millionDALYslost past decade.Trends in case detection rates should be analyzed becauseof onchocerciasisin1995. in conjunction with the proportion ofnew patients with grade Usingthemostrecentrapidepidemiologicalmappingdata 2 impairment (an indicator of the delay between onset of the and the latest APOC data on treatment coverage and assum- disease and diagnosis) and the proportion of children among ing that four rounds of ivermectin treatment will reduce the new cases (an indicator ofrecent transmission). prevalenceof troublesomeitchingby85percentandthebur- Virtually all published data on leprosy-related disability den of visual impairment and blindness by 35 percent give a concern impairments. In 1997, WHO estimated the global DALY estimate of 1.49 million DALYS lost for 2003 (see prevalence of patients with visible impairments (disability table22.1). grade 2) as 2 million. A similar number may have sensory In addition to the burden of blindness and severe itching, impairment without deformity. Sensory and motor impair- onchocerciasis has important socioeconomic consequences.In ment that are already present at diagnosis are important risk the West African savanna,fear of blindness has resulted in the factors for developing additional impairment and disability. depopulation of fertile river valleys,severely affecting agricul- Evidence indicates that sensory impairment itselfcauses signif- tural production. It was this socioeconomic impact, and not icant functional disability. Onchocerciasis Control Program (OCP) in West Africa in 1975 affected by leprosy is unknown. Van Brakel and Anderson’s . (1998) survey in Nepal finds that among those with any Even though the importance of onchocercal blindness has impairment, about 20 percent had limitations in relation to long been recognized,only in 1995 did research demonstrate one or more indoor activities and up to 34 percent had signifi- that the public health importance of onchocercal skin disease cant
