Chapter
KEYWORDS: control, disease, leprosy, treatment, onchocerciasis, percent, million, vector, countries, diseases, transmission, chagas, elimination, infected, cost


yet eliminated transmission,but gested that spraying houses with residual insecticides could thousands ofhouses have been sprayed since 1991. eliminate vectors’ domestic populations. The effect and sus- tainability of such vector control programs can be enhanced Blood Transfusion Control. The purpose of screening for when they are combined with improved housing and when T. cruzi in blood banks is to eliminate all units of potentially communities are well informed and closely involved in vector infected blood. Argentina and Brazil require screening to be surveillance activities. done using two serological tests to reduce the risk offalse neg- Argentina and Brazil initiated programs for nationwide atives;however,the cost-benefit ratio ofthe two-test approach vector control in the 1960s,and Chile and Uruguay did so in may be questionable in countries where prevalence is low and the 1970s. These programs were strengthened in 1991 by the the reagents used for diagnosis are highly sensitive. Southern Cone Initiative, a multinational effort to eliminate In 1993, the national coverage of blood donor screening infestation by T.infestanslaunched by the ministries of health wasanalyzed in four Central American and six South American ofArgentina,Bolivia,Brazil,Chile,Paraguay,and Uruguay and countries (Schmunis and others 1998). At that time, only coordinated by the WHO Regional Office for the Americas. Honduras, Uruguay, and República Bolivariana de Venezuela Similar regional initiatives for Central America and the Andean screened 100 percent of donors, and even in those countries 438 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Jan H. F. Remme, Piet Feenstra, P. R. Lever, and others infected transfusions were possible because of the lack of among patients and their communities are the principal strate- sensitivity of the reagents used.Since then,the sensitivity and gic approaches (Dreyer,Dreyer,and Noroes 2002). specificity of serological tests have improved,and more coun- tries have passed legislation requiring the screening ofall blood Mass Treatment. It is not yet known how many years ofMDA donors. By 2001, seven endemic countries were screening are needed to eliminate LF transmission, but empirical evi- 100 percent of blood donors for T.cruzi, four were screening dence on the effect of MDA on transmission is progressively more than 99 percent ofdonors,and two were screening about becoming available. In Anopheles-transmitted W. bancrofti in 90 percent; but four countries were still screening fewer than Papua New Guinea, four rounds of MDA with diethylcarba- 25 percent of donors. In countries with a high number of mazine or diethylcarbamazine plus ivermectin that reached immigrants from Latin
