Chapter
KEYWORDS: control, disease, leprosy, treatment, onchocerciasis, percent, million, vector, countries, diseases, transmission, chagas, elimination, infected, cost


Papua New Guinea, four rounds of MDA with diethylcarba- 25 percent of donors. In countries with a high number of mazine or diethylcarbamazine plus ivermectin that reached immigrants from Latin America,such as Spain and the United about 88 percent of the target population reduced the annual States, thousands of individuals are potentially infected, and transmission potential (the estimated number of infective- screening of blood donors for T. cruzi infection may be indi- stage larvae inoculated per person per year) by 97 percent and cated in these countries. 84 percent in low- and high-transmission areas,respectively.In India,where W.bancroftiis transmitted by C.quinquefasciatus, Treatment. If untreated, most individuals infected with T. six rounds ofMDA that reached 54 to 75 percent ofthe target cruzi will remain infected for life. Spontaneous cure is rare. population reduced the annual transmission potential by 95 Only two drugs,nifurtimox and benznidazole,are effective for and 80 percent in diethylcarbamazine- and ivermectin-treated treating T.cruzi. Both are highly effective for acute infections villages, respectively (Ramaiah and others 2003). Modeling and can be used in cases of congenital Chagas disease. Their studies indicate that the required duration of treatment will effectiveness for treating chronic cases remains unclear, but depend largely on the treatment coverage achieved and the increasing evidence indicates that they are effective in clearing extent of systematic noncompliance to treatment—that is, parasitemia when administered to young cases, which may noncompliance by the same individuals during successive impede the development of chronic lesions. Both drugs may treatment rounds (Stolk and others 2003).The physiology of cause serious side effects and should be administered under the vectors also plays a role,because with Culex-transmitted LF, medical supervision. the critical microfilariae density required to interrupt trans- mission is thought to be lower than in areas where Anophelesis the vector. Lymphatic Filariasis The addition of albendazole to the two established anti- In recent years,new control tools and strategies have become filarial drugs—diethylcarbamazine and ivermectin—is based available for LF (Ottesen and others 1997), and the World onclinicaltrialsindicatingthatthecombinationtherapyisas Health Assembly has adopted a resolution on the global elimi- goodasorbetterthansingle-drugtherapyandthatalbendazole nation of LF. The Global Programme for the Elimination of mayenhancethemacrofilaricidalactionofdiethylcarbamazine. Lymphatic Filariasis was launched in 2000 with the primary Albendazoleisalsoeffectiveandsafeagainstintestinalhelminth goals of interrupting transmission and preventing suffering infections, and its inclusion may enhance compliance with and disability caused by the disease . MDA.However,clinicaltrialshavenotyetbeenconclusive,and The core strategy for interrupting transmission is annual morerobustevidenceontheadvantagesofcombinationthera- mass drug administration (MDA) to treat the entire
