Chapter
KEYWORDS: control, disease, leprosy, treatment, onchocerciasis, percent, million, vector, countries, diseases, transmission, chagas, elimination, infected, cost


with infected blackflies or migration of infected persons into OCP diethylcarbamazine plus ivermectin reduced the annual trans- areas.The OCP countries,therefore,need to maintain effective mission potential by 96 percent, compared with 60 percent surveillance to identify any recurrences of infection (Richards using chemotherapy alone (Reuben and others 2001). and others 2001). Such results, along with the limitations of MDA for completely eliminating microfilariae in some situations, have Treatment with Ivermectin. In 1987, Merck & Co., the reactivated the debate on the role ofvector control in LF elim- manufacturer of ivermectin, agreed to donate the drug for ination (Burkot and Ichimori 2002). However, few endemic onchocerciasis control for as long as needed (Peters and countries have an adequate vector control infrastructure. Phillips 2004). Clinical and community trials involving more In some African countries,the same vector species transmit than 70,000 people showed that annual ivermectin treatment both LF and malaria.In such situations,the effect of malaria was safe,prevented ocular and dermal morbidity,and signifi- control measures, particularly insecticide-treated bednets, on cantly reduced transmission;however,ivermectin is a microfi- LF vector densities and transmission needs further evaluation. laricide and does not kill the adult worms, and long-term A review ofthe role and feasibility ofcommunity-based vector treatment is needed to sustain suppression ofthe microfilarial control strategies and large-scale application ofbiological con- load .Additional research is needed to deter- trol agents is also needed. mine the extent to which repeated treatments reduce the reproductive capacity ofthe adult worm population over time. Morbidity Management. The second objective of the Global The introduction ofivermectin allowed the OCP to achieve Programme for the Elimination of Lymphatic Filariasis is to its objective in 12 years instead of14 by combining vector con- decrease the disability caused by LF.Simple and cheap methods trol with ivermectin treatment,but most important,it also pro- have been developed for managing lymphedema,using water vided an opportunity to control onchocerciasis in endemic and soap occasionally supplemented with antibiotics. Studies areas outside the OCP where vector control was not feasible. in India, Africa, and the Americas have shown that such This ability led to the creation oftwo other regional programs methods can significantly improve the quality of life of those for controlling onchocerciasis in endemic areas of Africa and affected,but implementation ofthis strategy has greatly lagged the Americas: APOC and the Onchocerciasis behind the MDA campaigns. Elimination Program for the Americas (OEPA) (Richards and others 2001). Onchocerciasis The World Bank and WHO launched APOC
