Chapter
KEYWORDS: control, disease, leprosy, treatment, onchocerciasis, percent, million, vector, countries, diseases, transmission, chagas, elimination, infected, cost


greatly lagged the Americas: APOC and the Onchocerciasis behind the MDA campaigns. Elimination Program for the Americas (OEPA) (Richards and others 2001). Onchocerciasis The World Bank and WHO launched APOC in 1995 to Onchocerciasis control is based on vector control and large- serve 19 onchocerciasis-endemic countries outside the OCP. scale ivermectin treatment. APOC’s principal strategy is to establish annual ivermectin distribution in highly endemic areas to prevent eye and skin Vector Control. Vector control used to be the only feasible morbidity.In partnership with ministries of health and non- intervention when available drugs were too toxic for large- governmental organizations, APOC currently provides more scaleuse.Following success with vector control in Kenya,where than 35 million ivermectin treatments per year and aims to the application of larvicides resulted in local elimination of reach 65 million treatments per year before its scheduled the vector S. neavei, and in selected locations in West Africa, termination in 2010. APOC uses an approach referred to as where the application oflarvicides effectively stopped local vec- community-directed treatment with ivermectin, whereby local tor breeding but could not prevent reinvasion of infective communities rather than health services direct the treatment vectors from elsewhere,vector control was considered feasible process (Amazigo and others 2002).A community decides col- in the West African savanna if carried out on a large scale.In lectively whether it wants ivermectin treatment,how it will col- 1975, the OCP started large-scale vector control operations lect ivermectin tablets from the medical supply entity, when using helicopters for weekly spraying oflarvicides over the vec- and how the tablets will be distributed,who will be responsible tor breeding sites in river rapids .The opera- for distribution and recordkeeping, and how the community geographic area of 1,235,000 square kilometers. The OCP’s essary training and supervision. To date, communities have strategy was to maintain vector control for at least 14 years to responded enthusiastically to this approach (Seketeli and 440 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Jan H. F. Remme, Piet Feenstra, P. R. Lever, and others others 2002), and interest is now growing in exploring this of rifampicin in preventing leprosy, with preliminary results strategy for interventions against other diseases (Homeida and from the Indonesian trial indicating a significant protective others 2002). effect. In the Americas,O. volvulus transmission occurs only in a few small areas in six endemic countries.Accordingly,OEPA’s Prevention of Disabilities. As concerns primary prevention, strategy is based on intense ivermectin treatment
