Chapter
KEYWORDS: control, disease, leprosy, treatment, onchocerciasis, percent, million, vector, countries, diseases, transmission, chagas, elimination, infected, cost


In the Americas,O. volvulus transmission occurs only in a few small areas in six endemic countries.Accordingly,OEPA’s Prevention of Disabilities. As concerns primary prevention, strategy is based on intense ivermectin treatment twice a year leprosy-related disability is preventable, but when peripheral that should allow eventual cessation of ivermectin delivery neuropathy has become established,it is irreversible and leads without the risk of recrudescence (Richards and others 2001). to lifelong morbidity and disability (Bekri and others 1998; OEPA was launched in 1992 and is currently reaching more Meima and others 1999). Early case detection and treatment than 85 percent ofits intended target population. are therefore likely to be the most effective interventions in relation to preventing disability. When detected and treated Leprosy in time with corticosteroids, primary impairments may be The objectives ofleprosy control are to interrupt transmission, reversible,but because many patients present late,some 11 to deformities,and to rehabilitate those patients already afflicted In relation to secondary prevention, the main strategy is with deformities. The strategy involves early case detection self-care to prevent worsening of impairments in people who andthe provision ofadequate chemotherapy and comprehen- already have irreversible neural impairment or secondary sive patient care . impairments such as wounds and contractures. The role of health care workers is to educate patients so that they can be Multidrug Therapy. Dapsone therapy for leprosy was intro- responsible for the daily management of the effects of nerve duced in the late 1940s and successfully used as monotherapy function impairment.An essential part of secondary preven- for two decades.In the 1970s,resistance to dapsone emerged, tion is the use ofprotective footwear by people with anesthetic and WHO introduced multidrug therapy (MDT) in 1982. feet. Several studies have shown that the use of locally Paucibacillary patients were to be given a six-month regimen acceptable, appropriate footwear is a cost-effective interven- of daily dapsone and supervised monthly rifampicin. tion for those with a loss of plantar sensation . Multibacillary patients were to be treated with a three-drug Reconstructive surgery, protective footwear for people with regimen for two years or,where feasible,until the skin smear insensitive feet,and assistive devices to correct or prevent activ- had become negative.This regimen followed the paucibacillary ity limitations are also used in secondary prevention. regimen,adding a smaller daily dose ofclofazimine and a larger As concerns tertiary prevention, the stigma attached to supervised dose once a month. leprosy often prevents patients from participating in normal These regimens have
