Chapter
KEYWORDS: control, disease, leprosy, treatment, onchocerciasis, percent, million, vector, countries, diseases, transmission, chagas, elimination, infected, cost


daily dose ofclofazimine and a larger As concerns tertiary prevention, the stigma attached to supervised dose once a month. leprosy often prevents patients from participating in normal These regimens have had good results, with a relapse community activities. Strategies include counseling of those incidence of less than 0.1 percent per year . No affected and their families,neighbors,and communities;voca- multidrug-resistant leprosy has been reported so far, and tional training;and advocacy work. reports of rifampicin-resistant M. leprae have been few. In 1998,the standard multibacillary MDT regimen was shortened Rehabilitation. Impairments often lead to activity limitations to 12months.Long-term relapse rates for the 12-month regi- and restrictions on social participation,which can be prevented men are not yet available. by correcting the underlying impairment if it is not yet irre- MDT together with earlier diagnosis resulting from the up- can still be minimized with the help of reconstructive surgery grading ofleprosy services would have a considerable effect on or appropriate assistive devices, such as orthoses, grip aids, transmission;however,by 2002,clear evidence of a reduction calipers,or prostheses.A large but unknown percentage ofpeo- in transmission had not been seen. ple succeed in overcoming activity limitations by themselves. Some require rehabilitation interventions,such as physical or Immunoprophylaxis and Chemoprophylaxis. Several ran- occupational therapy, reconstructive surgery, or temporary domized trials have shown that vaccination with the bacillus socioeconomic assistance. Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine reduces the risk of develop- Intervention Effectiveness ingleprosy(FineandSmith1996),withthelevelofprotection varying from 20 to 80 percent. Chemoprophylaxis based on For all four diseases covered in this chapter,interventions are dapsone or intramuscular acedapsone conferred overall pro- available that are effective under routine control conditions. tection against leprosy of about 60 percent (Smith and Smith The feasibility of eliminating these diseases as public health 2000).TwolargetrialsarecurrentlyunderwayinBangladesh problems from most endemic areas is therefore not in doubt; and Indonesia to investigate the efficacy of one or two doses however, questions remain about the effectiveness and Tropical Diseases Targeted for Elimination: Chagas Disease, Lymphatic Filariasis, Onchocerciasis, and Leprosy | 441 sustainability of control under specific conditions and about would have cost US$98 million.Diagnosis of megasyndromes the feasibility of eliminating the parasites and transmission. for 6 percent of infected individuals at an average cost of The vector control strategy for Chagas disease worked well in US$141 each would add US$16.9 million,and corrective sur- the Southern Cone countries, but the sylvatic reservoir of T. gery for 3 percent of the latter would add US$60 million. cruzi remains unaffected,
