Chapter
KEYWORDS: control, disease, leprosy, treatment, onchocerciasis, percent, million, vector, countries, diseases, transmission, chagas, elimination, infected, cost


ofdisease US$570 million provided by donors to the OCP during would have fallen by 90 percent.We assumed that the effect of 1975–2002, US$140 million provided and earmarked for diethylcarbamazine-fortified salt was similar to that of MDA, APOC for 1996–2010, and US$10 million for OEPA for whereas for vector control we assumed that prevalence would 1991–2003. The African onchocerciasis control programs are decline with a delay ofseven years. considered highly cost-effective. No cost-benefit analysis has The predicted costs per DALY averted (table 22.3) indicate yet been published for OEPA. that MDA and diethylcarbamazine-fortified salt are extremely The OCP has been highly successful.More than 40 million cost-effective. Elimination with MDA costs about US$4 to people in the program’s 11 countries are now considered free US$8 per DALY averted, and even if transmission were not from infection and eye lesions,more than 1.5 million people interrupted and MDA would have to be continued for 30 years are no longer infected,and more than 200,000 cases of blind- (control scenario), the cost would be still only be around ness have been prevented.Sixteen million children born since US$29 per DALY averted. Diethylcarbamazine-fortified salt the program began are free of onchocerciasis. The socioeco- would be the cheapest intervention, but governments rarely nomic effect has also been dramatic:25 million hectares offer- favor it, and compliance can be difficult to ensure. Vector tile land in the river valleys were made available for resettle- control is at least 10 times more expensive in terms of DALYs ment and agriculture.A cost-benefit analysis of the OCP has averted,but it offers additional benefits in terms ofmalaria and estimated the net present value for the OCP over a 39-year dengue control and significant relieffrom mosquito nuisance. project horizon from 1974 to 2002 as US$485 million (Kim and The effect ofMDA on hydrocele and lymphedema is not yet Benton 1995).This figure corresponds to an IRR of20 percent, well established and the results of the Indian trial on which resulting mainly from increased labor because of prevention Tropical Diseases Targeted for Elimination: Chagas Disease, Lymphatic Filariasis, Onchocerciasis, and Leprosy | 443 (75percent ofbenefits). recrudescence ofinfection is likely.One strategy for sustaining A similar cost-benefit analysis for APOC also considered national investment is to show that ivermectin distribution sys- benefits in terms of additional labor resulting from blindness tems can be made polyfunctional.Treatment programs based prevention .It did not consider land use because on MDA for intestinal parasites,schistosomiasis,and LF
