Chapter
KEYWORDS: control, disease, leprosy, treatment, onchocerciasis, percent, million, vector, countries, diseases, transmission, chagas, elimination, infected, cost


Alley,andPlaisier1995).Wethereforeestimatethat15yearsof Nevertheless, if active methods are still used in areas where ivermectintreatmentat65percentcoveragewillpreventatleast case-detection rates are low,the cost of case detection may be 25 years of onchocercal disease.If we assume that 70 percent as high as US$108. of endemic communities will ultimately be covered by The costs of diagnosing and treating leprosy have fallen in 80 percent of those communities will maintain annual treat- now recommended. We therefore exclude the cost of skin mentat65percentcoverageforatleast15years,atleast26mil- smears.In addition,a shortening ofthe treatment regimen has lionDALYswouldbepreventedovera25-yearperiod. lowered drug costs to about US$12 for a multibacillary case The predicted cost of community-directed treatment with and US$1 for a paucibacillary case.Globally,almost 40 percent ivermectin in APOC countries is US$145 million by the inter- of leprosy cases are classified as multibacillary cases,with the national donor community plus US$64 million by ministries of remaining 60 percent being paucibacillary cases.Thus,we esti- giving a total of US$209 million.Therefore we estimate that The cost of treatment, however, is more than the cost of the cost of community-directed treatment is approximately drugs alone.WHO guidelines recommend that a multibacillary US$7 per DALY averted. case receive supervised treatment for 12 months and that a The ultimate cost-benefit of onchocerciasis control will paucibacillary patient receive treatment for 6 months. Using depend on how long effective control programs will need to be cost data from Ethiopia and Pakistan, we estimate these maintained to keep the disease under control.National govern- treatment costs at US$20 to US$30 in low-income countries. ments and ministries of health should plan to invest in Data from studies of tuberculosis interventions show that ivermectin distribution and in surveillance activities for the community-supervised treatment may reduce costs by up to foreseeable future.Thus,a case must continually be made with 50percent (Khan and others 2002),and this approach is being 444 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Jan H. F. Remme, Piet Feenstra, P. R. Lever, and others advocated as part of“flexible MDT delivery” and Table 22.3 Cost-Effectiveness Estimates for the Main “accompanied MDT” . Reducing the nondrug Interventions for Each Disease costs of treating leprosy to about US$10 to US$20 per patient Cost per DALY Internal rate of may,therefore,be possible.We thus estimate the costs oftreat- Intervention averted (US$) return (percent) ing a case of leprosy with MDT to be between US$15.40 and Chagas disease US$35.40 per case,depending on the strategy used. Vector control 260 30–60 About 10 to 20 percent ofnew leprosy cases are likely
