Chapter
KEYWORDS: control, disease, leprosy, treatment, onchocerciasis, percent, million, vector, countries, diseases, transmission, chagas, elimination, infected, cost


disease control and the ofthe diseases;thus,research on better tools and strategies that research needed to address these challenges.Table 22.4summa- will allow a permanent solution for these infectious diseases is rizes the results of this analysis for the four diseases discussed also needed.Furthermore,currently available control tools may in this chapter. be lost because of factors such as resistance, and research to Chagas disease has two main research priorities.The first is develop replacement tools is essential now. the development ofnew vector control strategies that will allow the successful elimination campaign used in the Southern Cone countries to be extended to the Central American and CONCLUSION Andean countries,where the vectors are often not domiciliated. The second is the development ofeffective and affordable treat- Tropical diseases are often viewed as neglected, because the ment for the millions of people already infected and the pre- investments made to fight them appear negligible compared vention ofchronic complications. with the massive amounts expended globally on the health 446 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Jan H. F. Remme, Piet Feenstra, P. R. Lever, and others problems of developed countries. Tropical diseases are truly Argentina.”Transactions ofthe Royal Society ofTropical Medicine and diseases ofthe poor,but despite the limited resources available Hygiene92 (2):137–43. Bekri,W.,S.Gebre,A.Mengiste,P.R.Saunderson,and S.Zewge.1998. for research and control, simple and effective interventions “Delay in Presentation and Start ofTreatment in Leprosy Patients:A have been developed and delivered to populations in need for Case-Control Study ofDisabled and Non-Disabled Patients in Three the four tropical diseases discussed in this chapter.Thus,expe- Different Settings in Ethiopia.” International Journal of Leprosy and rience with these four diseases sends a powerful message:suc- Other Mycobacterial Diseases66 (1):1–9. cess is possible, even for neglected tropical diseases of poor Benton, B. 1998. “Economic Impact of Onchocerciasis Control through the African Programme for Onchocerciasis Control: An populations in developing countries.Elimination ofthese dis- Overview.”Annals ofTropical Medicine and Parasitology92 (Suppl.1): ments in tropical disease research and control can make a sig- Borsboom,G.J.J.M.,B.A.Boatin,N.J.D.Nagelkerke,H.Agoua,K.L.B. nificant contribution to poverty reduction. Akpoboua, E. W. S. Alley, and others. 2003.“Impact of Ivermectin on Onchocerciasis Transmission: Assessing the Empirical Evidence An important reason for the success was that the interven- That Repeated Ivermectin Mass Treatments May Lead to tions were extremely cost-effective. The available cost- Elimination/Eradication in West-Africa.”Filaria Journal2 (1):8. effectiveness data, though limited, show convincingly that Boussinesq, M., S. D. Pion, Demanga-Ngangue, and J. Kamgno. 2002. intervention against these diseases is a good investment, and
