Chapter
KEYWORDS: control, disease, leprosy, treatment, onchocerciasis, percent, million, vector, countries, diseases, transmission, chagas, elimination, infected, cost


in West-Africa.”Filaria Journal2 (1):8. effectiveness data, though limited, show convincingly that Boussinesq, M., S. D. Pion, Demanga-Ngangue, and J. Kamgno. 2002. intervention against these diseases is a good investment, and “Relationship between Onchocerciasis and Epilepsy:A Matched Case- Control Study in the Mbam Valley, Republic of Cameroon.” the argument for investment gets better when other economic Transactions of the Royal Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene benefits,not reflected in DALYs,are taken into account,such as 96(5):537–41. increased food production when fertile land along river valleys Burkot,T.,and K.Ichimori.2002.“The PacELF Program:Will Mass Drug became available for agriculture after the control ofonchocer- Administration Be Enough?”Trends in Parasitology18 (3):109–15. ciasis in West Africa and increased labor productivity after Dadzie, K. Y., J. Remme, A. Rolland, and B. Thylefors. 1989. “Ocular Onchocerciasis and Intensity ofInfection in the Community:II.West effective filariasis control in India. African Rainforest Foci of the Vector Simulium yahense.” Tropical The pharmaceutical industry also played a major role Medicine and Parasitology40 (3):348–54. through large drug donations,and the creation ofintercountry Dharmshaktu,N.S.,B.N.Barkakaty,P.K.Patnaik,and M.A.Arif.1999. control programs provided effective mechanisms for imple- “Progress towards Elimination ofLeprosy as a Public Health Problem in India and Role ofModified Leprosy Elimination Campaign.”Leprosy menting interventions, technical support, and coordination. Review70 (4):430–39. Another reason for the success was a focused research program Dias,J.C.1987.“Control ofChagas’Disease in Brazil.”Parasitology Today that ensured the development ofinterventions based on simple 3 (11):336–41. and sustainable approaches that use cheap and “appropriate” Diffey,B.,M.Vaz,M.J.Soares,A.J.Jacob,and L.S.Piers.2000.“The Effect technology and that are potentially multifunctional. of Leprosy-Induced Deformity on the Nutritional Status of Index Cases and Their Household Members in Rural South India: A Chagas disease,LF,onchocerciasis,and leprosy are now on Socioeconomic Perspective.” European Journal of Clinical Nutrition target for elimination as public health problems from large 54(8):643–49. parts of the world. However, these diseases cannot be eradi- Dreyer, G., P. Dreyer, and J. Noroes. 2002.“Recommendations for the cated using current tools, and much remains to be done to Treatment of Bancroftian filariasis in Symptomless and Diseased expand and sustain the control efforts and undertake the nec- Patients.”Revista da Sociedade Brasileira de Medicina Tropical35 (1): 43–50. essary research to improve the control efforts as well as to Dreyer, G., J. Noroes, J. Figueredo-Silva, and W. F. Piessens. 2000. develop more definite solutions.It will be essential,therefore, “Pathogenesis ofLymphatic Disease in Bancroftian filariasis:A Clinical that donors and ministries of health not abandon these pro- Perspective.”Parasitology Today16 (12):544–48. grams because oftheir success. Fine,P.E.,and P.G.Smith.1996.“Vaccination against Leprosy:The View from 1996.”Leprosy
