Case Report
KEYWORDS: liver, hydroxycut, case, supplements, hepatotoxicity, patient, weight, report, toxicity, extract, acute, weight loss, loss, failure, camellia


Case Report Hydroxycut-induced Liver Toxicity Kaswala DH, Shah S, Patel N, Raisoni S, Swaminathan S Address for correspondence: Abstract Dr. Dharmesh H Kaswala, Newark, NJ 07103, USA. Americans spend around $30 billion a year for weight loss supplements. At times, these E‑mail: supplements can be responsible for documented or undocumented adverse drug effects. The even though FDA issues advisories regarding them. One common supplement used for weight was recalled from the market after a FDA warning in May 2009 because of 23 reports of serious health problems ranging from jaundice and elevated liver enzymes to liver damage. 1 This case report adds evidence for Hydroxycut ‑ induced hepatotoxicity. A 27 year old man with right upper quadrant pain and jaundice was found to have elevated liver enzymes and was taking Hydroxycut along with other supplements. Liver biopsy showed drug induced hepatotoxicity. Discontinuation of Hydroxycut dramatically improved liver functions and related symptoms. Keywords: Hydroxycut, Liver toxicity, Nutritional supplements Introduction had MRCP-Magnetic Resonant Cholangio Pancreatography that demonstrated cholelithiasis, but it did not show any signs In US, nutritional supplements are largely unregulated; of cholecystitis. An abdominal ultrasound revealed sludge products, but these may not be heeded by general public that may not be aware of the consequences of taking an unregulated Further questioning revealed that patient had been studying to substance promoted for its health benefits. This case be a physical trainer at a local college. He exercised vigorously demonstrates the possible harm that patients may experience at least 3 times/week. Patient stated that he was “prescribed” with the use of weight loss herbal supplement, Hydroxycut. a set of supplements (Hydroxycut, Black powder, mitotropin, xenadrine, arson, and L-glutamine powder 23) by his local Case Report nutrition center. A 27-year-old man with no significant past medical history presented as a referral from a community When patient was admitted, liver enzymes panel showed: AST-Aspartate Aminotransferase: 3800 U/L, ALT-Alanine choledocholithiasis. The patient complained of fever, chills, aminotransferase: 5100 U/L, total bilirubin: 14.7 mg/dl, direct and abdominal pain (achy in the Right Upper Quadrant and bilirubin: 10.0 mg/dl and alkaline phosphatase: 99 mg/dl, all epigastrium) for the past 2 weeks, nausea, and vomiting of correlated with the degree of jaundice seen. Additional tests clear liquids without blood for a 1 week, and jaundice for included a urine toxicology screen, immunological studies for 2 days. Records from referring facility indicated that patient liver (anti-nuclear antibodies, anti-smooth muscle
