Case Report
KEYWORDS: liver, hydroxycut, case, supplements, hepatotoxicity, patient, weight, report, toxicity, extract, acute, weight loss, loss, failure, camellia


blood for a 1 week, and jaundice for included a urine toxicology screen, immunological studies for 2 days. Records from referring facility indicated that patient liver (anti-nuclear antibodies, anti-smooth muscle antibodies, and anti A liver/kidney microsomal antibodies), serum Access this article online acetaminophen level, serum ceruloplasmin level, and genetic Quick Response Code: tests for hemochromatosis; all of them were negative. Liver Website: www.amhsr.org biopsy showed signs of acute liver failure. Hematoxylin and eosin stain of the liver biopsy specimen is DOI: shown in Figures 1 and 2. Figure 1 shows extensive patchy areas of necrosis as in acute fulminant hepatitis with sparing Annals of Medical and Health Sciences Research | Jan-Feb 2014 | Vol 4 | Issue 1 | 143 Kaswala, et al.: Hydroxycut Figure 1: Histopathology-1 Figure 2: Histopathology-2 of biliary tract. Figure 2 shows lymphocytic infiltration of the is not rare; however, without a complete history inclusive of portal tracts and lobular parenchyma. patient’s nutritional supplements, the diagnosis may have continued to be elusive. Patient was asymptomatic during the hospital stay and was planned to discharge with trending down of liver enzymes by Following are the components of the Hydroxycut product, discontinuation of Hydroxycut and conservative management. which is still available online. Serving size: 2 Caplets The patient was advised to follow-up with Hepatology. • Calcium: 156 mg On follow-up visit after 2 weeks of discharge, Labs: AST: • Chromium: 133 mcg 669 U/L, ALT: 1965 U/L, Total Bilirubin: 4.5 mg/dl, Alkaline • Potassium: 218 mg phosphatase: 128 mg/dl, PT: 1.1. • Hydroxagen plus: 1.32 g* • Garcinia Cambogia Extract (Fruit and Rind) standardized Discussion for 60%- hydroxycitric acid (HCA) • Gymnema Sylvestre Extract (Leaf) standardized for 25% Use of alternative and herbal medication as a dietary supplement gymnemic acids is becoming increasing popular in recent years owing to • Soy phospholipids toxicity associated with most prescription medication and the • Rhodiola Rosea Extract (Root) standardized for 5% presumed notion of safety with over the counter and so called rosavins natural weight loss therapies in the setting of our epidemic of • Withania somnifera Extract Root standardized for 1.5% obesity in the United States. Drugs are a significant cause of withanolides liver injury. More than 900 drugs, toxins, and herbs have been • Hydroxy tea: 414 mg* reported to cause liver injury, and drugs account for 20-40 % • Green tea Extract as Camellia Sinensis leaf: 91 mg*
