Case Report
KEYWORDS: liver, hydroxycut, case, supplements, hepatotoxicity, patient, weight, report, toxicity, extract, acute, weight loss, loss, failure, camellia


and herbs have been • Hydroxy tea: 414 mg* reported to cause liver injury, and drugs account for 20-40 % • Green tea Extract as Camellia Sinensis leaf: 91 mg* of all instances of fulminant hepatic failure. Approximately, • Caffeine anhydrous: 200 mg* 75% of the idiosyncratic drug reactions result in liver failure • White Tea Extract as Camellia Sinensis Leaf or death. Drug-induced hepatic injury is the most common • Oolong Tea Extract as Camellia Sinensis Leaf. reason for withdrawal of approved drugs. The manifestations of drug-induced hepatotoxicity are highly variable, ranging From all of these components chromium, Garcinia Cambogia from asymptomatic elevation of liver enzymes to fulminant Extract and Camellia Sinensis of tea extracts are found to have hepatic failure. an association with the hepatotoxicity related to Hydroxycut. There have been several cases reported in the past linking advisory connecting the use of Hydroxycut and severe when the product containing the component is withdrawn, fulminant Hepatitis was issued in July, 2009. There are improvement in liver enzymes was seen. Garcinia Cambogia several previous case reports suggesting hepatotoxicity has HCA as the main component, which is an inhibitor of the associated with Hydroxycut.[2-7] This case illustrates the ATP-Adenosine Triphosphate citrate lyase so it blocks de novo importance of obtaining a full history of both prescribed synthesis of fatty acids and helps in weight reduction. However, medications, non-prescription medications and additional two recent reports show its association with hepatotoxicity. One supplements that a patient may be taking and the potential report shows the synergistic effect of HCA with montelukast harm that unregulated nutritional supplements may pose to in causing liver damage. Other one states that the increase patients. The fulminant hepatitis that this patient experienced in liver enzymes is seen with HCA containing product use. 144 Annals of Medical and Health Sciences Research | Jan-Feb 2014 | Vol 4 | Issue 1 | Kaswala, et al.: Hydroxycut Chromium is used in Hydroxycut because of its effects such as gov/ForConsumers/ConsumerUpdates/ucm152152. increasing basal metabolic rate and decreasing total body fat. htm. [Accessed on 2012 Jun 26]. However, there have been some cases reporting its dangerous 2. Dara L, Hewett J, Lim JK. Hydroxycut hepatotoxicity: A case side-effects such as acute hepatitis, thrombocytopenia, and series and review of liver toxicity from herbal weight loss supplements. World J Gastroenterol 2008;14:6999‑7004. renal failure.[11-13] Green tea, which is widely used because of 3. Stevens T, Qadri
