Case Report 253
KEYWORDS: colonoscopy, colon, obstruction, bowel, small, patient, abdominal, pain, cecum, sigmoid, bowel obstruction, case, multiple, air, report


Case Report 253 Large Bowel Obstruction after Colonoscopy; A Case Report Zohreh Bari1, Hafez Fakheri2*, Hossein Sardarian1 ABSTRACT Postpolypectomy bleeding and perforation are the major complications of colonoscopy. This report presents a rare case of colon obstruction immedi- Sari, Iran ately after colonoscopy. A 56-year-old man underwent colonoscopy because ology, Inflammatory Gut and Liver Re- multiple small sessile polyps in sigmoid colon. Biopsy samples were taken the procedure, the patient complained of colicky abdominal pain accompa- of Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran nied by diaphoresis. In physical examination, the abdomen seemed distended and bowel sounds were high-pitched. There was no abdominal tenderness or guarding. Plain and upright abdominal radiography showed multiple colonic air-fluid levels. Immediately, the patient underwent second colonoscopy, but passage of scope through sigmoid colon (at the site of biopsies) was some- what hard because of edema and spasm. The colonoscope proceeded gently up to cecum and decompressed the entire colon by suctioning the air that was entrapped in proximal parts. By second colonoscopy and further conservative treatments, the patient’s condition improved without any surgical procedure and was discharged after 24 hours. KeywORdS Colonoscopy; Lower abdominal pain; Polyp Please cite this paper as: Bari Z, Fakheri H, Sardarian H. Large Bowel Obstruction after Colonoscopy; A Case Re- port. Middle East J Dig Dis 2015;7:253-6. InTROdUCTIOn Colonoscopy is a diagnostic-therapeutic procedure being widely used. It is almost always well tolerated and the risk of serious compli- cations is low. The major complications of colonoscopy are postcolo- noscopy bleeding (0.2%) and perforation (1%).1-4 The other complica- tions are rare.1,5 Herewith, we present a case of postcolonoscopy bowel obstruction. CASe RePORT A 56-year-old man presented with a history of 6 months hypogastric * Corresponding Author: pain. In order to investigate the cause, colonoscopy was performed using conscious sedation with intravenous midazolam (2.5 mg) and Liver Research Center, Mazandaran Uni- meperidine (25 mg). The rectal mucosa was normal, but there were versity of Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran multiple diverticula in sigmoid colon and also some small sessile pol- Tel: + 98 11 33350670 Fax: +98 11 33363754 yps (<1 cm) near the junction between sigmoid and descending colon. email: Biopsy samples were taken and the scope was gently advanced toward Received: 01 Jun. 2015 Accepted: 11 Aug. 2015 cecum. There were multiple scattered diverticula up to ascending colon and another small sessile polyp was also found in cecum, from which Middle East Journal
