Case Report 253
KEYWORDS: colonoscopy, colon, obstruction, bowel, small, patient, abdominal, pain, cecum, sigmoid, bowel obstruction, case, multiple, air, report


2015 Accepted: 11 Aug. 2015 cecum. There were multiple scattered diverticula up to ascending colon and another small sessile polyp was also found in cecum, from which Middle East Journal of Digestive Diseases/ Vol.7/ No.4/ October 2015 254 Large Bowel Obstruction after Colonoscopy Fig. 1: Multiple diverticula are seen from sigmoid up to ascend- ing colon. There are some small sessile polyps in sigmoid. other biopsy sample was taken (figure 1). no free air between intestinal loops, the probability The procedure was completed without any com- of perforation was ruled out. Immediately, the pa- plication during colonoscopy. About 5 minutes tient underwent second colonoscopy, but the scope later, the patient complained of severe colicky ab- could hardly pass through sigmoid colon because of dominal pain, which recurred every 5 minutes and spasm and edema at the site of previous polyp biop- was accompanied by diaphoresis. sies. The scope was gently advanced toward cecum On physical examination, blood pressure was and simultaneously decompressed the entire colon 110/80 mmHg, heart rate was 80/min and the pa- by suctioning the entrapped air. After performing tient had no fever. The abdomen seemed distended the second colonoscopy, the colicky abdominal pain and bowel sounds were high-pitched. Also, the ab- was relieved and abdominal distention was signifi- no tenderness or guarding. for close observation. Fluid and electrolytes were Plain abdominal radiography showed multiple supplemented intravenously. Oral feeding was not colonic air-fluid levels and distention of the colon, permitted. Complete blood cell counts showed leu- especially in the right side (figure 2). kocytosis. white blood cell count was 19×109/L Since there was no subdiaphragmatic free air and and hemoglobin was 15 mg/dL. Serum amylase and Middle East Journal of Digestive Diseases/ Vol.7/ No.4/ October 2015 Bari et al. 255 Fig. 2: Abdominal radiography after the first colonoscopy showed distention of cecum, ascending colon, and transverse colon with a transition point in descending part indicating an obstructive cause in distal colon. lipase levels and electrolytes were within normal high-pitched bowel sounds, together with radio- ranges. After 2 hours, the patient passed flatus and graphic findings (including distention and air-fluid after 12 hours, he passed liquid stool. The next day, levels mostly confined to cecum and ascending co- white blood cell count was reduced to 1010/L and lon), made the diagnosis of ileus impossible and led the patient had no pain or diaphoresis. He tolerated to the diagnosis of
