Case Report 253
KEYWORDS: colonoscopy, colon, obstruction, bowel, small, patient, abdominal, pain, cecum, sigmoid, bowel obstruction, case, multiple, air, report


blood cell count was reduced to 1010/L and lon), made the diagnosis of ileus impossible and led the patient had no pain or diaphoresis. He tolerated to the diagnosis of large bowel partial obstruction. liquids and then full meals, and therefore, he was The diagnosis was supported by further demon- discharged during the second day. stration of narrowing at the site of polyp biopsies, which made second colonoscopy to be very hard. In dISCUSSIOn our patient, the most possible explanation for sig- In recent publications, there are only few reports moid colon obstruction was the edema and spasm of postcolonoscopy small bowel obstruction,6 in- at the site of polyp biopsy, which was situated near carcerated internal hernia,7 ileus,6 and volvulus of multiple diverticula. Fortunately, obstruction was cecum,8 ileum,9 and sigmoid colon.10 There is also relieved with conservative management and did not a report of ileus due to pancreatitis caused by colo- lead to surgery. noscopy.11 In conclusion, large bowel obstruction is a rare Postcolonoscopy small intestinal obstruction complication after colonoscopy. The diagnosis usually occurs in patients with previous history of should be considered in case of postcolonoscopy small intestinal surgery. In patients who did not re- abdominal pain, because ignoring the pain and the spond to conservative treatments, laparotomy had progression of distention may lead to intestinal per- mostly shown internal hernia or entrapment of foration or even air emboli.16-18 small intestinal loops in adhesions.12-14 Our patient did not have previous history of in- COnFLICT OF InTeReST testinal surgery or any complaint referring to the The authors declares no conflict of interest related probability of intestinal obstruction before colo- to this work. noscopy. The occurrence of symptoms immediately after colonoscopy made coincidental causes almost ReFeRenCeS impossible. 1. dafnis G, ekbom A, Pahlman L, Blomqvist P. Complica- The most common cause of abdominal pain tions of diagnostic and therapeutic colonoscopy within a defined population in Sweden. Gastrointest Endosc and distention after colonoscopy is ileus, which is 2001;54:302-9. mostly caused by sympathetic over-stimulation, ex- 2. Ghazi A, Grossman M. Complications of colonoscopy and cessive air insufflations, and the effects of opiates polypectomy. Surg Clin North Am 1982;62:889-96. used for sedation.15 But in our patient, exaggerated, Middle East Journal of Digestive Diseases/ Vol.7/ No.4/ October 2015 256 Large Bowel Obstruction after Colonoscopy 3. Vernava AM, 3rd, Longo we. Complications of endoscop- ic polypectomy. Surg Oncol Clin N Am 1996;5:663-73. 4. Hart R, Classen
