Action potential
KEYWORDS: potential, action, membrane, cell, sodium, action potential, channels, potentials, potassium, action potentials, ions, resting, current, axon, membrane potential


). In this two-ion system, E Na Na is the natural limit of membrane potential beyond which a cell cannot pass. Current values illustrated in this graph that exceed E are measured by artificially pushing the cell's voltage Na past its natural limit. Note however, that E could only be reached if the potassium current were Na absent. 3. • The blue arrow indicates the maximum voltage that the peak of the action potential can approach. This is the actual natural maximum membrane potential that this cell can reach. It cannot reach E because of the counteracting influence of the potassium current. Na 4. • The red arrow indicates the action potential threshold. This is where I becomes net-inward. sum Note that this is a zero-current crossing, but with a negative slope. Any such "negative slope crossing" of the zero current level in an I/V plot is an unstable point. At any voltage negative to this crossing, the current is outward and so a cell will tend to return to its resting potential. At any voltage positive of this crossing, the current is inward and will tend to depolarize the cell. This depolarization leads to more inward current, thus the sodium current become regenerative. The point at which the green line reaches its most negative value is the point where all sodium channels are open. Depolarizations beyond that point thus decrease the sodium current as the driving force decreases as the membrane potential approaches E . Na The action potential threshold is often confused with the "threshold" of sodium channel opening. This is incorrect, because sodium channels have no threshold. Instead, they open in response to depolarization in a stochastic manner. Depolarization does not so much open the channel as increases the probability of it being open. Even at hyperpolarized potentials, a sodium channel will open very occasionally. In addition, the threshold of an action potential is not the voltage at which sodium current becomes significant; it is the point where it exceeds the potassium current. Biologically in neurons, depolarization typically originates in the dendrites at synapses. In principle, however, an action potential may be initiated anywhere along a nerve fiber. In his discovery of "Caonoikmiesa hle elpl eusc dtreliicvietry o,u"r Lseurviigceis G. Bay luvsainng io umr saedrveic eas ,l yeogu aogfr eae tdo eoaurd u sfer oofg c okoikcieks .as in life by touching 7/14 a sciatic nerve with
