Action potential
KEYWORDS: potential, action, membrane, cell, sodium, action potential, channels, potentials, potassium, action potentials, ions, resting, current, axon, membrane potential


with physics similar to those that govern the movement of electrical signals along a wire. Due to the resistance and capacitance of a wire, signals tend to degrade as they travel along that wire over a distance. These properties, known collectively as cable properties set the physical limits over which signals can travel. Thus, nonspiking neurons (which carry signals without action potentials) tend to be small. Proper function of the body requires that signals be delivered from one end of an axon to the other without loss. An action potential does not so much propagate along an axon, as it is newly regenerated by the membrane voltage and current at each stretch of membrane along its path. In other words, the nerve membrane recreates the action potential at its full amplitude as it travels down the axon, thus overcoming the limitations imposed by cable physics. Plant action potentials Many plants also exhibit action potentials that travel via their phloem to coordinate activity. The main difference between plant and animal action potentials is that plants primarily use potassium and calcium currents while animals typically use currents of potassium and sodium. Alternative models 11/14 The model of electrical signal propagation in neurons employing voltage-gated ion channels described above is accepted by almost all scientists working in the field. However there are a few observations not easily reconciled with the model: • A signal traveling along a neuron is accompanied by a slight local thickening of the membrane and a force acting outwards.[3] • An action potential traveling along a neuron results in a slight increase in temperature followed by a decrease in temperature;[4] electrical charges traveling through a resistor however always produce heat. One recent alternative, the soliton model, attempts to explain signals in neurons as pressure (or sound) solitons traveling along the membrane, accompanied by electrical field changes resulting from piezo-electric effects. See also • Cardiac action potential • Ventricular action potential • Membrane potential • Depolarization • Hyperpolarization • Signals (biology) • Time constant • Length constant • Bursting
