Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: esophageal, des, patient, treatment, dilation, case, approach, diagnosis, comorbidities, patients, esophagus, esophageal dilation, allen, spasm, esophageal spasm


Open Access Case Report DOI: Diffuse Esophageal Spasm: An Alternative Treatment Approach McKenzie K. Allen 1, Wayne Frei 2 Review began [DATE] Review ended [DATE] Allen et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Corresponding author: McKenzie K. Allen , Commons Attribution License CC-BY 4.0., which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited. Abstract Diffuse esophageal spasm (DES) is a rare esophageal motility disorder characterized by abnormal contractions of the esophagus, leading to curling of the esophagus. The classic finding on barium swallow resembles that of the turns of a corkscrew. This case report presents a case of DES with impressive imaging and an alternative treatment approach. There are no well-established guidelines for the treatment of DES. Treatment options include surgical myotomy, oral medications to aid in smooth muscle relaxation, esophageal dilation, and several newer approaches such as endoscopic botulinum toxin injections. There is a need for less invasive treatment modalities that provide a solution, longer than the duration of action of an oral medication in patients who are not candidates for surgical intervention. This case report presents a complex and challenging case of DES in the context of multiple complicating comorbidities. This case is unique in demonstrating the successful management of a rare esophageal motility disorder in a high-risk patient using a more traditional, less invasive treatment approach. This case report presents a 91-year-old cachectic female with DES in the context of various comorbidities. Given her age, comorbidities, and current status, she was not a candidate for surgical intervention. After attempts at pharmacological therapy, the patient’s dysphagia continued to worsen. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy with pneumatic esophageal dilation was performed. The patient’s swallowing improved in the days following endoscopic dilation. Categories: Gastroenterology, Nutrition, General Surgery Keywords: esophageal motility, esophageal motility disorders, distal esophageal spasm, corkscrew esophagus, diffuse esophageal spasm (des) Introduction Diffuse esophageal spasm (DES) is a rare esophageal motility disorder that most commonly presents as progressive dysphagia . The disorder is associated with uncoordinated or rapidly occurring contractions of the smooth muscle of the esophagus that disrupt the normal peristaltic mechanism of swallowing . The contractions are simultaneous and alternate with normal peristalsis . DES most commonly occurs in white, elderly, females . A definitive etiology of DES is unknown. One theory indicates that uncoordinated contractions are a result of a disrupted
