Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: esophageal, des, patient, treatment, dilation, case, approach, diagnosis, comorbidities, patients, esophagus, esophageal dilation, allen, spasm, esophageal spasm


peristalsis . DES most commonly occurs in white, elderly, females . A definitive etiology of DES is unknown. One theory indicates that uncoordinated contractions are a result of a disrupted balance between inhibitory and excitatory postganglionic pathways . Additionally, other possible theories stem from the distal part of the esophagus showing muscular hypertrophy or hyperplasia in most cases of DES . The gold standard for the diagnosis of DES includes esophageal manometry . First-line treatment includes calcium channel blockers and nitrates . The second line includes endoscopic procedures such as botulinum toxin injections and pneumatic dilation . The most feared complication of esophageal dilation is esophageal perforation . The risk of perforation is low, but it is important to note that in the setting of perforation, there is a mortality of 20% and there is an association with underlying malignancy . Esophageal botulinum injections have been shown to be beneficial in improving dysphagia in spastic disorders, such as DES, and in individuals diagnosed with achalasia who are elderly or have multiple comorbidities . Studies indicating the benefit of this approach are small and primarily retrospective . These studies indicate there is resolution of dysphagia for an average of six months following the injections . More evidence is needed to fully support the use of botulinum injections as a primary treatment approach for DES. Surgical approaches are reserved for particularly complex or refractory cases . Surgical approaches, such as the Heller myotomy (through thoracotomy or with thoracoscopic access), have previously yielded better outcomes than endoscopic procedures . Cases of DES that were treated with surgical approaches such as long myotomy of the esophagus and gastric cardia with a complete fundic patch have demonstrated promising outcomes . This approach has decreased the risk of postoperative gastroesophageal reflux disease . In elderly patients with a comorbidity or operative risk, surgery is often contraindicated. How to cite this article Allen M K, Frei W (May 07, 2024) Diffuse Esophageal Spasm: An Alternative Treatment Approach. Cureus 16(5): e59822. DOI Another, less invasive surgical approach that was originally designed for the treatment of achalasia, peroral endoscopic myotomy (POEM) was first performed in 2010 . A randomized control trial comparing POEM to the gold standard surgical approach in achalasia, Heller myotomy, is ongoing . DES is often associated with increased lower esophageal sphincter pressure, which has been noted as a predictor of good responses to pneumatic dilation
