Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: esophageal, des, patient, treatment, dilation, case, approach, diagnosis, comorbidities, patients, esophagus, esophageal dilation, allen, spasm, esophageal spasm


(platelet count) x 103/µL 264 (125-450) Sodium (mEq/L) 141 (136-145) Potassium (mEq/L) 2.9 (3.5-5.0) Chloride (mEq/L) 116 (98-106) Bicarbonate (mEq/L) 12 (23-28) BUN (blood urea nitrogen, mg/dL) 38 (8-20) Creatinine (mg/dL) 3.5 (0.50-1.10) Anion gap (mEq/L) 13 (7-13) TABLE 1: Significant lab values in a patient with diffuse esophageal spasm, Clostridium difficile colitis, and several other comorbidities The upper gastrointestinal series (barium swallow) revealed a lack of the primary stripping wave with to and fro motion within the esophagus with the corkscrew appearance of the esophagus as seen in Figure 1. Given her age, comorbidities, and current state, she was not a candidate for surgery. Pharmacologic treatment with 2024 Allen et al. Cureus 16(5): e59822. DOI 2 of 5 metoclopramide before meals and nifedipine was initiated. The patient continued to progress to dysphagia with liquids and solids. The patient was then evaluated by surgery. During her initial evaluation with surgery, she reported swallowing issues over the last few years and increasing chest discomfort. FIGURE 1: Barium swallow of a 91-year-old patient with diffuse esophageal spasm (DES) Notice the ‘corkscrew’ or ‘rosary-bead’ appearance to the esophagus. In light of the uniquely complex aspects of this case, gastroenterology was consulted. An upper gastrointestinal endoscopy with esophageal balloon dilation was performed. The patient’s gastroenterologist obtained informed consent for the procedure in paper form. Sublingual nitroglycerin was ordered post-procedure for pain secondary to esophageal spasm. In the following days, the patient's swallowing improved, and oral intake increased. It was recommended the patient follow up if problems recur or for repeat esophageal dilation. Management of the patient’s other comorbid conditions was continued for several more weeks. The patient was eventually released to home on hospice. Consent for the publication of this report, to include images and details of the case was obtained from the patient and her daughter, who is her power of attorney. Consent for the performed procedure was obtained by the patient’s gastroenterologist in paper form. Discussion DES is a rare esophageal motility disorder without a well-established treatment algorithm for evidence- based modalities. There are commonly delays in diagnosis, missed diagnoses, and often unpredictable outcomes for patients with DES . In patients who are not candidates for the more invasive treatment options or are intolerant to medications, endoscopic pneumatic dilation can be an effective management strategy to improve outcomes for these patients . Esophageal manometry is considered the gold standard for the diagnosis
