Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: esophageal, des, patient, treatment, dilation, case, approach, diagnosis, comorbidities, patients, esophagus, esophageal dilation, allen, spasm, esophageal spasm


are intolerant to medications, endoscopic pneumatic dilation can be an effective management strategy to improve outcomes for these patients . Esophageal manometry is considered the gold standard for the diagnosis of DES . Barium swallow has a higher sensitivity than endoscopy for detecting strictures but a lower overall accuracy for diagnosing achalasia . Taking into consideration this patient’s age, comorbidities, long-standing history of GERD, and dysphagia, it was noted that strictures were likely. This led to the decision to use barium swallow to aid in diagnosis. The diagnostic criteria for DES have evolved in recent years after the introduction of high- 2024 Allen et al. Cureus 16(5): e59822. DOI 3 of 5 resolution esophageal pressure topography . The current diagnostic criteria include at least two premature contractions with a distal latency under 4.5 seconds with the assumption of normal esophagogastric junction relaxation . There are no specified guidelines for the treatment of DES when first-line therapy is unsuccessful or there are contraindications to medication use. There are limited studies noting the effectiveness and long-term outcomes of the more invasive approaches like traditional surgical approaches, such as Heller myotomy or the relatively newer surgical approach POEM, in individuals with DES specifically . Endoscopic Botulinum toxin injections are a more recently established approach. As of now, there is not yet enough data to support this as a primary treatment modality . Endoscopic esophageal dilation is a traditional approach that can be overlooked by the vast array of possible treatment options. In subsets of patients, such as the elderly or immunocompromised, there is a need for less invasive treatment modalities that provide a solution longer than the duration of action of an oral medication. In this case, the patient was elderly and currently being treated for several other medical issues with multiple medications. Adding additional medications would increase the risk of drug interactions, side effects, and toxicity while only providing short-term relief. After a failed trial with metoclopramide and nifedipine, when weighing the risks and benefits of the various treatment options, it was decided to utilize a second-line treatment option, esophageal pneumatic dilation. This case is unique in demonstrating the successful management of a rare esophageal motility disorder in a high-risk patient using a more traditional, less invasive treatment approach. A previous study analyzing the long-term outcomes of esophageal dilation in 51 patients with diffuse esophageal spasm revealed that four years after esophageal
