Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: esophageal, des, patient, treatment, dilation, case, approach, diagnosis, comorbidities, patients, esophagus, esophageal dilation, allen, spasm, esophageal spasm


a more traditional, less invasive treatment approach. A previous study analyzing the long-term outcomes of esophageal dilation in 51 patients with diffuse esophageal spasm revealed that four years after esophageal dilation, 56.25% reported improvement in their symptoms . There were no complications such as esophageal perforation . This study concluded that based on their results, esophageal dilation in patients with DES is both safe and has beneficial long-term effects . The study also noted there was no association found between size or type of dilator and outcome . In comparison to this case, the previous study had a mean diagnosis age of 68.5 years and our patient had an age at diagnosis of 91 . Additionally, our patient was being treated for multiple other comorbidities at the time of esophageal dilation. The patient discussed in this report was also released on hospice, which limits the ability for long-term follow-up. Although similar to the aforementioned study, the patient did report improvement in swallowing following esophageal dilation and was able to begin eating more allowing for the resolution of severe malnutrition. Recommendations for the management of DES include following evidence-based guidelines that are available for both diagnosis and treatment. In patients with other medical issues or contraindications to thorough risks and benefits discussion and shared decision-making process with the patient should be used. The most up-to-date evidence-based recommendations for diagnosis include high-resolution esophageal manometry as the gold standard approach . Criteria for diagnosis include at least two premature contractions with a distal latency of less than 4.5 seconds in at least 20% of wet swallows with the assumption of normal lower esophageal sphincter tone . Barium swallow and endoscopy are considered ancillary tests but can provide additional information allowing differentiation of DES from other esophageal thorough history may be sufficient in making the diagnosis of DES. Classic imaging reveals a ‘corkscrew’ appearance of the esophagus, as seen in this patient in Figure 1. Limitations This case report may be limited by generalizing the validity of the study and the inability to establish a causal relationship. The study may also be limited by the effects of the patient’s age, comorbidities, and their respective medical management. Conclusions This report presented a patient diagnosed with DES after the incidental finding of classic imaging of an esophagus resembling a corkscrew on a barium swallow, all of which were complicated by the patient’s various comorbidities. This case
