Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: esophageal, des, patient, treatment, dilation, case, approach, diagnosis, comorbidities, patients, esophagus, esophageal dilation, allen, spasm, esophageal spasm


DES after the incidental finding of classic imaging of an esophagus resembling a corkscrew on a barium swallow, all of which were complicated by the patient’s various comorbidities. This case adds to the literature by presenting a case of successful management of DES with esophageal dilation alone. More studies are needed to evaluate the treatment of DES in cases complicated by the presence of other serious medical issues. Further research is needed to gain support for all of the different treatments of DES. Research with special attention to complicating factors, such as advanced age, and commonly associated conditions, such as GERD and a history of smoking or alcohol use, need to be considered when studying the different approaches to management. In addition, more research on different approaches to diagnosis is needed to provide support for alternative approaches to diagnosis in certain cases. Additional Information Author Contributions All authors have reviewed the final version to be published and agreed to be accountable for all aspects of the work. Concept and design: McKenzie K. Allen , Wayne Frei 2024 Allen et al. Cureus 16(5): e59822. DOI 4 of 5 Acquisition, analysis, or interpretation of data: McKenzie K. Allen , Wayne Frei Drafting of the manuscript: McKenzie K. Allen , Wayne Frei Critical review of the manuscript for important intellectual content: McKenzie K. Allen , Wayne Frei Supervision: McKenzie K. Allen , Wayne Frei Disclosures Human subjects: Consent was obtained or waived by all participants in this study. Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial support was received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they have no financial relationships at present or within the previous three years with any organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.
