VA ECMO for severe acute heart failure in adults
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, acute, acute heart, ecmo, people, severe, severe acute, transplant, heart transplant, committee, procedure, implanted, recovery


1 Recommendations As a bridge to recovery, heart transplant or implanted LVAD 1.1 Venoarterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (VA ECMO) can be used as an option for severe acute heart failure in adults as a bridge to recovery, a heart transplant or an implanted left ventricular assist device (LVAD). When the potential for functional recovery is low or uncertain, and a heart transplant or implanted LVAD is unsuitable 1.2 More research is needed on VA ECMO for severe acute heart failure in adults when the potential for functional recovery is low or uncertain, and a heart transplant or an implanted LVAD is unsuitable, before it can be used in the NHS. 1.3 This procedure should only be done as part of formal research and an NHS research ethics committee needs to have approved its use. What this means in practice As a bridge to recovery, a heart transplant or an implanted LVAD There is enough evidence on the safety and efficacy of this procedure for healthcare professionals to consider VA ECMO as an option as a bridge to recovery, a heart transplant or an implanted LVAD. Healthcare professionals should discuss the available options with the person with severe acute heart failure (and their family members and carers as appropriate) before a joint decision is made, if possible (see NICE's page on shared decision making). Hospital trusts will have their own policies on funding procedures and monitoring results. NHS England may also have policies on funding of procedures. When the potential for functional recovery is low or uncertain, and a heart transplant or an implanted LVAD is unsuitable There is not enough evidence to know if this procedure is efficacious when the potential for functional recovery is low or uncertain, and a heart transplant or an implanted LVAD is unsuitable. VA ECMO should only be done as part of formal research in this group. For everyone having the procedure Auditing of outcomes Healthcare professionals doing this procedure should collect data on safety and outcomes of the procedure. Enter details about everyone having this procedure into the Extracorporeal Life Support Organization Registry and regularly review the data on outcomes and safety. Healthcare professionals are also encouraged to enter data into the cardiogenic shock module in the Intensive Care National Audit and Research Centre Case Mix Programme. Who should be involved in the procedure Patient selection should be done by a multidisciplinary team. The
