VA ECMO for severe acute heart failure in adults
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, acute, acute heart, ecmo, people, severe, severe acute, transplant, heart transplant, committee, procedure, implanted, recovery


module in the Intensive Care National Audit and Research Centre Case Mix Programme. Who should be involved in the procedure Patient selection should be done by a multidisciplinary team. The procedure could be done in centres specialising in managing severe acute heart failure and by healthcare professionals with specific training in this procedure. What research is needed More research is needed on: • patient selection including: － age － comorbidities － cause of severe acute heart failure － predictors of recovery • short- and long-term outcomes. Why the committee made these recommendations VA ECMO is not a treatment for severe acute heart failure. It is a short-term intervention that provides oxygenated blood to organs while a person's heart recovers, or before someone has a heart transplant or an implanted LVAD. The prognosis for severe acute heart failure can depend on its causes, so recovery is more likely in some people, such as people with reversible causes. Evidence suggests that VA ECMO improves survival in these people while they recover, or before they have a heart transplant or an implanted LVAD. For people with a low or uncertain chance of functional recovery who cannot have a heart transplant or an implanted LVAD, clinical trial evidence suggests that there is no benefit from VA ECMO. This may be because of the cause of their severe acute heart failure or because of their comorbidities. For this group, more research is needed on who might benefit from VA ECMO, so it should only be used in research. 2 Information about the procedure 2.1 Venoarterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (VA ECMO) can be used for adults with severe acute heart failure as a bridge to recovery, or to having a heart transplant or an implanted left ventricular assist device. 2.2 In VA ECMO, blood is taken from the venous system (usually from the femoral vein or directly from the right atrium) and pumped through an oxygenator, where oxygen and carbon dioxide are exchanged. It is then returned to the arterial system, usually through the femoral or axillary artery, or the ascending aorta. People are usually given a continuous infusion of an anticoagulant, usually heparin, to prevent blood clotting in the extracorporeal system. For people with poor kidney function, a haemofiltration unit may be added to the circuit. 3 Committee discussion The condition 3.1 Acute heart failure is a complex clinical syndrome of symptoms and signs that
