VA ECMO for severe acute heart failure in adults
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, acute, acute heart, ecmo, people, severe, severe acute, transplant, heart transplant, committee, procedure, implanted, recovery


kidney function, a haemofiltration unit may be added to the circuit. 3 Committee discussion The condition 3.1 Acute heart failure is a complex clinical syndrome of symptoms and signs that happen when the efficiency of the heart as a pump is impaired. It can lead to reduced blood flow to the body and increased filling pressures in the heart. Cardiogenic shock is the most severe form of acute heart failure, with short-term mortality between 30% and 50%. It can be caused by a heart attack, heart failure, inflammation of the heart muscle, drug overdoses and poisoning, and blood clots in the lungs. Severe acute heart failure in pregnancy is relatively uncommon but rates are increasing, particularly in the postpartum period. Current practice 3.2 NICE has published recommendations on diagnosing and managing acute heart failure (see NICE's guideline on acute heart failure: diagnosis and management). Acute heart failure includes sudden significant deterioration in people with known cardiac dysfunction or the new onset of symptoms in people without previous cardiac dysfunction. Treatment involves medicines, including diuretics and inotropes, and invasive treatments such as: • electrophysiological interventions such as pacemakers or implantable cardioverter-defibrillators • revascularisation procedures such as percutaneous coronary intervention, valve replacement or repair • temporary use of intra-aortic balloon pumps or ventricular assist devices. Most acute heart failure can be managed with conventional treatment. Only a few people with severe acute heart failure will need venoarterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (VA ECMO). Unmet need 3.3 VA ECMO is a form of extracorporeal life support. It provides cardiac and respiratory support for people with severe acute heart failure that has not responded to other forms of treatment. VA ECMO is used when people have the potential to recover, or as a bridge to having a heart transplant or an implanted left ventricular assist device. Unlike a heart–lung (cardiopulmonary) bypass machine, it tends to be used for days to weeks, not hours during open heart surgery. This allows the heart time to recover. The aim is to improve patient outcomes. The evidence 3.4 NICE did a rapid review of the published literature on the efficacy and safety of this procedure. This comprised a comprehensive literature search and a detailed review of the evidence from 14 sources (16 publications), which was discussed by the committee. The evidence included 7 systematic reviews, 3 randomised controlled trials, 1 retrospective registry study, 2 single centre retrospective studies, and
