VA ECMO for severe acute heart failure in adults
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, acute, acute heart, ecmo, people, severe, severe acute, transplant, heart transplant, committee, procedure, implanted, recovery


14 sources (16 publications), which was discussed by the committee. The evidence included 7 systematic reviews, 3 randomised controlled trials, 1 retrospective registry study, 2 single centre retrospective studies, and 1 review and case series. It is presented in the summary of key evidence section in the interventional procedures overview. Other relevant literature is in the appendix of the overview. 3.5 The professional experts and the committee considered the key efficacy outcomes to be: survival, restoration of organ function, and bridging to recovery, transplant or long-term support. 3.6 The professional experts and the committee considered the key safety outcomes to be: bleeding, leg ischaemia, stroke, infection, kidney failure and circuit-related complications. 3.7 Patient commentary was sought but none was received. Committee comments 3.8 VA ECMO could be done in centres specialised in managing severe acute heart failure and providing VA ECMO. 3.9 This is a short-term intervention to support people and provide a bridge to further treatment or decisions about their care. Some people will recover, and others will need a heart transplant or long-term mechanical support. 3.10 The committee was told that, for better outcomes, it is very important to start VA ECMO for managing severe acute heart failure as early as possible. 3.11 The committee was told that people: • can be transferred to specialist centres for VA ECMO • can potentially be transferred on VA ECMO to specialist centres. 3.12 The committee noted that there is a risk of limb ischaemia when the femoral artery is used. But it also noted that this risk has reduced since distal limb perfusion has been in use. 3.13 The recommendations in this guidance include the use of VA ECMO during pregnancy or in the postpartum period. 3.14 The committee was told that a high level of nursing expertise and input from a perfusionist are needed to support people on VA ECMO. 3.15 Some people who had VA ECMO have become organ donors, and their organs have been transplanted. Equality considerations 3.16 There are few centres in the UK that specialise in managing severe acute heart failure and using VA ECMO. So, people in more rural areas may have to travel large distances or may not have time to access this intervention. 3.17 The prevalence of heart failure slowly increases with age until about 65 years, and then more quickly. Age is a protected characteristic under the Equality Act (2010). 3.18
