TYPECaseReport
KEYWORDS: liver, tumor, cancer, treatment, colorectal, chemotherapy, metastases, colorectal cancer, resection, liver metastases, metastasis, therapy, patients, haic, writing


may be limited, and the liver metastases should be metastasis of colorectal cancer, and liver metastasis of colorectal directly resected and postoperative adjuvant therapy (10) or cancer is one of the key and difficult points in the treatment of neoadjuvant therapy should be considered after changing colorectalcancer(1).Atotalof15%–25%ofpatientswithcolorectal chemotherapy regimen (11, 12), or preoperative combined with cancerwillhavelivermetastasesatdiagnosis,whileanother15%– hepatic artery infusion chemotherapy (13). Cytotoxic T 25%willhavelivermetastasesafterradicalresectionoftheprimary lymphocyte-associatedprotein4antibodyandprogrammeddeath colorectalcancer,ofwhich80%–90%oflivermetastasescannotbe receptor1antibodyarerepresentativeagentsofimmunecheckpoint radicallyresectedinitially(2–4).Livermetastasisisalsotheleading tumorsuppression,whichcanenhancetheactivityofimmunecells cause of death in patients with colorectal cancer (5). The median to kill tumor cells, and are widely used in tumor immunotherapy survival of patients with untreated liver metastasis is only 6.9 (14, 15). Sintilimab injection is a PD-1 inhibitor. Multi-target months, andthe5-yearsurvival rateofpatients withunresectable tyrosine kinase inhibitors not only target factors that promote livermetastasesislessthan5%(6,7),whilethemediansurvivalrate tumorangiogenesis,butalsoinhibitavarietyofkinasesrelatedto ofpatientswithlivermetastasesthatcanbecompletelyresectedis5 tumorigenesis. Lenvatinib not only inhibits the kinase activity of months,andthe5-yearsurvivalratecanreach30%–57%(8,9). vascularendothelialgrowthfactorreceptor-3(VEGFR1-3),butalso For patients with a previously radical colorectal primary inhibits fibroblast receptor (FGF) and its receptors FGFR1–4, resection and no recurrence of the primary lesion, the liver PDGFRa, and stem cell factor receptor, thereby inhibiting tumor metastases can be completely resected and the liver is less than vessels (16). It has been reported that sequential target 70% resected (without cirrhosis), the liver metastases should be immunotherapycanenhancethekillingeffectofimmunecellson surgically resected, or neoadjuvant therapy can be performed tumor.ThiscasereportstheefficacyoflocalHAICcombinedwith first(1). sintilimab injection and lenvatinib in the treatment of colorectal Neoadjuvant therapy can be used in patients with primary cancerlivermetastases. colorectal cancer who have undergone radical resection and have notreceivedchemotherapy,orinpatientswithlivermetastasiswho Case presentation haveundergoneradicalresectionandpostoperativereplacement12 monthsbeforelivermetastasis;thatis,neoadjuvantchemotherapy andconcurrentchemotherapybeforesurgerycanachieveahigher ThisstudywasapprovedbytheEthicsCommitteeofTheFirst can reduce the occurrence of distant metastasis, and can improve numberis2023-E637-01).A69-year-oldmalepatientwasadmitted long-term survival. Conventional systematic chemotherapy to the hospital 10 days after reexamination for hepatic space- regimens include FOLFOX, FOLFIRI, CapeOX, or FOLFOXIRI. occupying lesions on 17 March 2022. He had a history of There is still controversy over whether to use molecular targeted diabetes, clonorchiasis sinensis, and gout. He had been treated therapyincombination,andhepaticarterialinfusionchemotherapy with deinfestation, and his blood glucose and uric acid control (HAIC) may also be considered. For patients who received wassatisfactory.Assessmentandexaminationwereperformedafter FrontiersinImmunology 02 frontiersin.org Pengetal. admission. Liver CT and liver MRI indicated that S3 and S4 green (ICG), ICG-R15-minute retention rate of 8.2%. The occupied liver space (Figures 1A–H), and tumor recurrence was percentage oftheleft lateral lobeof theliverinthestandard liver considered. Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP): 716.27 ng/mL, protein volume is 64.5%.. After three cycles HAIC treatments, tumor induced by vitamin K absence or antagonist II (PIVKA-II): 30.25 markers showed a downward trend (Figure
