Cardiac Pacemakers
KEYWORDS: block, class, evidence, heart, opinion, patients, pacing, ventricular, pacemaker, bradycardia, sinus, symptoms, rate, symptomatic, pacemakers


physiologic pacemakers (AAI, DDD, VDD) appear to reduce risk of atrial fibrillation (AF) and heart failure and slightly improve quality of life. Modern pacemakers include lower-energy circuitry, new battery designs, and corticosteroid-eluting leads (which reduce pacing threshold), all of which increase pacemaker longevity. Mode switching refers to an automatic change in the mode of pacing in response to sensed events (eg, from DDDR to VVIR during AF). Leadless ventricular pacemakers consist of a combined impulse generator and lead that are entirely contained within the right ventricle. They are placed transvenously using specially designed delivery systems and are retained in the right ventricle by screws or tines. The leadless pacemakers currently in use are approximately 1 mL in size, 2 grams in weight, and are of VVI or VVIR configuration (2). TABLE Examples of Pacemaker Codes* I II III IV V Response to Chamber Chamber Rate Multisite Sensed Paced Sensed Modulation Pacing Event O = Not A = Atrium A = Atrium O = None O = None programmable I = Inhibits V = Ventricle V = Ventricle A = Atrium pacemaker T = Triggers pacemaker to R =Rate- D = Dual (both) D = Dual (both) V = Ventricle stimulate modulated ventricles D = Dual (both): For events sensed in ventricles, D = Dual (both) inhibits; for events sensed in atria, triggers 11/13 * The pacemaker code is defined by 3 to 5 letters (here defined by positions I to V). Any one of the letters may be used for each particular position. For example, in position I, the letter code may be A, V, or D. In position III, the letter code may be O, I, T, or D and so on. Complications of pacemaker use Pacemakers may malfunction by Oversensing events Undersensing events Failing to pace Failing to capture Pacing at an abnormal rate Tachycardias are an especially common complication. Rate-modulating pacemakers may increase stimuli in response to vibration, muscle activity, or voltage induced by magnetic fields during magnetic resonance imaging. In pacemaker-mediated tachycardia, a normally functioning dual-chamber pacemaker senses a ventricular premature or paced beat transmitted to the atrium (ie, through the AV node or a retrograde-conducting accessory pathway), which triggers ventricular stimulation in a rapid, repeating cycle. Additional complications associated with normally functioning devices include cross-talk inhibition, in which sensing of the atrial pacing impulse by the ventricular channel of a dual-chamber pacemaker leads to inhibition
