Lamichhane et al. BMC Pediatrics (2023) 23:388 BMC Pediatrics
KEYWORDS: hmpv, children, infections, respiratory, study, years, human, infection, age, viral, viruses, reported, tract, virus, patients


or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication waiver ( applies to the data made available in this article, unless otherwise stated in a credit line to the data. Introduction is estimated to be 3 to 6 days, and the median duration of Acute respiratory infections (ARIs) pose a major public illness can vary depending upon severity but is similar to health problem worldwide with significant morbidity and other respiratory infections caused by other viruses . mortality . ARIs can be classified into upper respi- Re-infection with HMPV is common . To date, there ratory tract infections (URIs) and lower respiratory tract is no vaccine is available . infections . Globally, 17.2 billion URIs alone have been HMPV infections can occur throughout the year, but reported in 2019 . About 13 million children less than seasonality has been described in several studies [22, 5 years of age die every year. About 95% of them are from 23]. The seasonal distribution of HMPV was found to developing countries and one-third of the total deaths are be largely similar to that of RSV, with the peak of virus due to ARIs . The incidence of severe ARIs is the high- detection in winter . However, it varies from year to est in Southeast Asian and African regions . Bangla- year and from place to place . desh, India, Indonesia, and Nepal together report a total Since the advancement of molecular techniques, the of 40% global mortality due to ARIs. It is estimated that detection of co-infections by multiple respiratory viruses 30–50% of hospital visits and 20–40% of hospital admis- from the same respiratory specimen has been made pos- sion is related to ARIs . Likewise, 68.06 million epi- sible. In children hospitalized due to severe bronchiolitis, sodes of lower respiratory infections have been reported co-infection may reach 70% according to some reports, in 2016 . Pneumonia and bronchiolitis are
