Lamichhane et al. BMC Pediatrics (2023) 23:388 BMC Pediatrics
KEYWORDS: hmpv, children, infections, respiratory, study, years, human, infection, age, viral, viruses, reported, tract, virus, patients


In children hospitalized due to severe bronchiolitis, sodes of lower respiratory infections have been reported co-infection may reach 70% according to some reports, in 2016 . Pneumonia and bronchiolitis are the leading although most studies have shown that prevalence rates contributors to the global burden of ARIs in young chil- range from 15 to 39% . Because Human meta- dren. These infections are responsible for the greater part pneumovirus is relatively new and not well described, of the mortality rate, of which the vast majority occur in the chances of underdiagnosis in regular medical prac- developing countries. Pneumonia alone killed 740,180 tice are very high. Center for Disease Control and Pre- children under the age of 5 in 2019 which accounts for vention (CDC) recommends considering HMPV testing 14% of all deaths . along with Influenza virus (Flu), RSV, and other com- Viral agents are among the most common pathogens mon respiratory viruses, especially in patients with responsible for respiratory tract infections in young chil- severe respiratory illness during winter and spring, when dren and also in adults [11–13]. However, the HMPV is highly circulating . Despite that, there are etiological agents for a large number of respiratory tract only limited reports regarding HMPV infections. Stud- infections (RTIs) remain unknown . Respiratory syn- ies had shown that HMPV is one of the prevalent causes cytial virus (RSV), Parainfluenza virus (PIV), Influenza of respiratory tract infections in South Asian countries virus, and Adenovirus have been considered the leading including Nepal . Dr. Mathisen (2010) found that causes of acute viral respiratory tract infections . about 4.2% of pneumonia in children in Bhaktapur, Nepal A study in Thailand from Jan 2015 to Dec 2019 reported was caused by HMPV . Women in Nepal with HMPV RSV as the main etiology of bronchiolitis followed by during pregnancy had an increased risk of giving birth to Influenza viruses were the most predominant among infants who were small for gestational age . children with pneumonia (15.52%) . Since the advent Actual data regarding the prevalence of HMPV alone of more sensitive diagnostic tools, like PCR, the propor- in our country is not known however some studies had tion of known viral etiologies has increased. In the last described the co-infection of HMPV with other viruses ten years due to the advancement in molecular technolo- and bacteria . In addition to the limited data gies, newly
