Lamichhane et al. BMC Pediatrics (2023) 23:388 BMC Pediatrics
KEYWORDS: hmpv, children, infections, respiratory, study, years, human, infection, age, viral, viruses, reported, tract, virus, patients


the last described the co-infection of HMPV with other viruses ten years due to the advancement in molecular technolo- and bacteria . In addition to the limited data gies, newly discovered viruses have been identified from regarding the epidemiology of HMPV in children in patients with RTIs, like Human Metapneumoviruses, subtropical regions such as Nepal; the seasonal pattern Coronaviruses NL63, and HKU, Human Bocaviruses, remains unknown. Many studies also lack the correla- Polyomaviruses WU and KI and the pandemic H1N1 other hand, using multiplex real-time PCR for diagnosis influenza A virus . is rarely used in our context, the study aimed to focus HMPV can infect people of all age groups, with a on the diagnosis of HMPV infections and other poten- high prevalence in pediatric patients, older adults, and tial viral etiologies or co-infections among children using immunocompromised individuals . Infections multiplex real-time RT-PCR visiting a tertiary care hospi- with HMPV can be both symptomatic and asymptom- tal in Kathmandu, Nepal. atic . Clinical manifestations of symptomatic HMPV Materials and methods are indistinguishable from those of RSV and range from mild upper respiratory tract infection to severe diseases Study approval and consent requiring hospitalization like severe cough, bronchiol- The study was approved by the review committee, Kanti fever, myalgia, and vomiting . The incubation period (Reference no.: 2,018,019). The study was carried out Helsinki (Ethical principles for medical research involv- (URTI, pneumonia, bronchiolitis, asthma) were recorded ing human subjects). Before obtaining the consent, from the notes. detailed information about the research including study aims, description of the sample collection procedure, Sample collection potential benefits and risks, and assurance of confidenti- Throat swabs from enrolled patients were collected using ality for all information and results were provided to each a standard microbiological technique for three fixed days participant. All participants were also informed about every week as per the availability of one of our co-inves- their right to withdraw consent at any time without pro- tigators, a Pediatrician from January 2019 to March 2019. viding any reason for withdrawal or having fear of any The samples were collected in a clean, dry, and sterile negative consequences. Written informed consent was Dracon swab stick, which was then immediately kept taken from the legal representatives, either parents or in a tube containing viral transportation media (VTM) guardians of children. Assent was taken from the partici- and transported to Central Diagnostic Laboratory and
