Lamichhane et al. BMC Pediatrics (2023) 23:388 BMC Pediatrics
KEYWORDS: hmpv, children, infections, respiratory, study, years, human, infection, age, viral, viruses, reported, tract, virus, patients


the legal representatives, either parents or in a tube containing viral transportation media (VTM) guardians of children. Assent was taken from the partici- and transported to Central Diagnostic Laboratory and pants ≥ 11 years and < 15 years of children. Research Center, Kamalpokhari, Kathmandu within an hour of collection. Samples were stored at -80oC until Inclusion and exclusion criteria further processing. Study population and timeline dren below 15 years suspected of influenza-like illness sample (supernatant) by using the PureLink™ Viral RNA/ with respiratory tract infection (including both influenza- DNA Mini kit (Invitrogen, Thermo Fisher Scientific), like illness and severe acute respiratory infection cases) the entire procedure was carried out according to kit as defined by Fitzner et al. 2018 were enrolled in the instructions. study over three months period. Children from both out- patients department and the inpatients department were Polymerase chain reaction enrolled, however, patients with specific symptoms other All the throat swab samples were tested for HMPV and than flu-like illness were excluded. co-infection with other potential viruses such as RSV, Influenza, Parainfluenza, and Adenovirus by one-step Sample size real-time RT-PCR. The viral RNA is transcribed into Based on a review by Panda et al. , HMPV is the cDNA using a specific primer-mediated reverse tran- major etiological agent responsible for about 5–10% of scription step followed immediately in the same tube by hospitalizations of children suffering from acute respi- a polymerase chain reaction. The presence of specific ratory tract infections. Considering an average of 7.5% viral sequences in the reaction is detected by an increase prevalence of HMPV, the sample size was calculated to in fluorescence observed from the relevant dual-labeled be 107 [n=Z2p e . 2 q , z = 1.96, p = 0.075, q = 0.925, e = 5%]. A probe and is reported as a cycle threshold value (Ct) by convenience sampling method was used to enroll all the the Real-Time thermocycler. The preparation of PCR patients that meet the inclusion criteria throughout the was done with a master mix (Fast Tract Diagnostica, study period. Luxemburg, Finland) following the manual, FTD Respi- ratory Pathogens 21 . Reagents for the reaction: the Data collection positive control (PC), and 2x RT-PCR buffer were thawed The clinical history of HMPV-infected children was completely and the reaction mix was prepared as shown obtained from pediatricians’ notes as the notes had in Table 1. The- 96 well reaction was
