Lamichhane et al. BMC Pediatrics (2023) 23:388 BMC Pediatrics
KEYWORDS: hmpv, children, infections, respiratory, study, years, human, infection, age, viral, viruses, reported, tract, virus, patients


outpatient depart- (years) ment (Table 6). < 3 F Fever, Cough, loss of appetite, Sore Pneumonia Throat Discussion < 3 F Fever, Cough, Rhinorrhea, Wheezing, Asthma Sore Throat Since 2001, after the discovery of HMPV, several studies < 3 M Fever, Cough, Rhinorrhea, loss of ap- Pneumonia have provided important information on HMPV epide- < 3 M Fever, Cough, Rhinorrhea, Wheezing, Bronchiolitis tion, and the patient groups that are at risk for HMPV Sore Throat infection [11, 13, 34–37]. Although few studies have < 3 M Fever, Cough, Wheezing, Sore Throat Asthma suggested that HMPV is an important causative patho- < 3 M Fever, Cough, Rhinorrhea, Sore Throat Bronchiolitis gen in children of Nepal , the actual data regard- < 3 M Fever, Cough, Rhinorrhea, Wheezing, Pneumonia ing HMPV infection in the country’s population remains Sore Throat largely unknown due to the limitations of these studies. 3–5 F Fever, Cough, Rhinorrhea URTI In this study, we describe the prevalence of HMPV, co- 3–5 F Fever, Cough, Loss of Appetite Pneumonia 3–5 F Fever, Cough, Rhinorrhea, Wheezing Bronchiolitis 3–5 M Fever, Cough, Rhinorrhea, Sore Throat Bronchiolitis pared the clinical characteristics among those HMPV- 3–5 M Fever, Cough, Rhinorrhea, Wheezing Pneumonia positive cases. 3–5 M Fever, Cough, Rhinorrhea, Wheezing Pneumonia Out of 105 specimens collected from children with 6–15 F Fever, Cough, Sore Throat, Headache URTI ARIs, 23 (21.9%) were positive for different viral infec- Note: M: Male, F; Female, URTI: Upper respiratory tract infection tions by multiplex-PCR including HMPV. However, stud- ies from the adjoining countries have reported a higher (median age: 4 years). Most infected individuals were rate of viral infection among children with ARIs. A study from the outpatient department (Table 3). from India has reported 82.7% of viral infections in chil- dren of less than 5 years with ARIs . Likewise, a study The most common clinical findings of HMPV infection children under 5 years with ARIs . Although we use were cough (n = 14; 100%) and fever (n = 14; 100%) fol- a similar technique for diagnosis, the lower rate of viral lowed by rhinorrhea (n = 10, 71.4%), sore throat (n = 9; infections in our study might be due to only processing of 64.3%), and wheezing (n = 7; 50%). Three of the patients throat swabs. The combined nasopharyngeal and throat (n = 3; 21.4%) had complaints of loss of appetite and one swab
