Lamichhane et al. BMC Pediatrics (2023) 23:388 BMC Pediatrics
KEYWORDS: hmpv, children, infections, respiratory, study, years, human, infection, age, viral, viruses, reported, tract, virus, patients


groups in which HMPV infections are detected. Perchetti and public health importance of HMPV and its potential et al. 2021 reported a 5.3% prevalence of HMPV infec- severity to children. tions among infants with respiratory symptoms from A year-round survey that included children aged less rural areas in Nepal followed by RSV infections . A than 5 years reported that the burden of HMPV infection number of studies reported an increased rate of HMPV is up to 7% in the United States . It has been reported infection among children under 5 years [44–46]. Since that the higher burden is among children from low- this study was only limited to three months’ duration, income settings. A study from North East Brazil reported it would be rather difficult to conclude the epidemiol- a prevalence of HMPV of 10% in preschool children . ogy of HMPV among Nepalese children. However, dur- Our study suggests that the positive rate in this age group ing that brief study period, we observed HMPV as the might be at least as high, however further study in this most prevalent virus detected in children with ARIs. population is required. No HMPV-positive children aged 6 to 15 years were co-infected with other viruses. The co-infected viruses hospitalized. Rates of HMPV-associated hospitalization included respiratory syncytial virus and parainfluenza are highest among children < 3 years old. A similar result virus. Besides RSV and Parainfluenza virus, a longitudi- was reported by Edward et al. 2013 . The higher prev- nal study conducted in rural areas in Nepal reported Rhi- alence of HMPV and disease severity in young children novirus, Adenovirus, and Bocavirus co-infections with is multifactorial and includes elements of immunological HMPV among infants with respiratory symptoms . naïveté , infecting dose exposure and crowding, other The absence of more respiratory viruses in this study siblings, vaccination status against other respiratory might be due to convenience sampling without controls pathogens, ventilation, prior respiratory and proximal for a brief study duration. In addition, the small sample diarrhoeal disease and its impact on nutritional status, size can distort the findings of the study from the regular the anatomy of the chest wall and lung physiology in trend, simply by random effects . Nevertheless, the young children, as well as other factors, as noted in other lack of other respiratory pathogens in most patients sug- studies . gests that HMPV is a major
