Lamichhane et al. BMC Pediatrics (2023) 23:388 BMC Pediatrics
KEYWORDS: hmpv, children, infections, respiratory, study, years, human, infection, age, viral, viruses, reported, tract, virus, patients


Nevertheless, the young children, as well as other factors, as noted in other lack of other respiratory pathogens in most patients sug- studies . gests that HMPV is a major pathogen of both the upper cough, rhinorrhea, sore throat, and wheezing. Among hospitals in Nepal and the patients come from all over the 14 HMPV-positive children, cough, fever, rhinorrhea, the country, so the data presented here represent the sce- and sore throat were the most common features. Wheez- nario of the country during the study period. However, as ing was present in approximately half of the children. No a major study limitation, we could not conduct our study earache or post-tussive emesis was found. Comparable throughout the year including all seasons because of a data was reported in a study by Honda et al. . Sev- limited budget and time. Therefore, the generalization of eral reports indicate that HMPV is a commonly identi- the findings may not be precise as the study included a fied cause of pediatric lower RTIs, and is second only to low number of cases collected in three months. Further RSV as a cause of bronchiolitis in early childhood . A study for an extended period including more popula- study that included children diagnosed with acute lower tions from different groups is recommended to generate RTI reported bronchiolitis as the most common presen- the baseline information to address the magnitude of the tation of HMPV illness . However, in our study, pneu- disease. monia was the most common clinical diagnosis followed Conclusions by bronchiolitis and asthma. There were no cases of otitis media. Cong et al. 2022 and Wang et al. 2021 From this study, it can be concluded that HMPV is an have also reported pneumonia (92.7% and 55.77% respec- important human pathogen associated with ARIs in tively) as a main diagnosed disease among HMPV-posi- young children. HMPV can cause a wide range of respira- tive children. tory tract illnesses ranging from the minor upper respi- The seasonal distribution of HMPV infection varies ratory tract to severe bronchiolitis including pneumonia . Some longitudinal studies suggested and asthma among children under the age of 15 years. that the high season for HMPV is from winter to spring The severity is higher in young children as compared to (between December and May) and the low season is the older children often leading to hospitalization. Likewise, fall (around
