Lamichhane et al. BMC Pediatrics (2023) 23:388 BMC Pediatrics
KEYWORDS: hmpv, children, infections, respiratory, study, years, human, infection, age, viral, viruses, reported, tract, virus, patients


spring The severity is higher in young children as compared to (between December and May) and the low season is the older children often leading to hospitalization. Likewise, fall (around September and October). Wang et al. 2021 HMPV co-infection with RSV and Parainfluenza virus and Cong et al. 2022, have reported the prevalence of was also reported in our study indicating HMPV infec- HMPV higher during the winter and autumn seasons [53, tion as one of the predominant causes of ARIs in children 54]. However, the high season for HMPV in tropical and in Kathmandu. The study finally suggests immediate care subtropical areas varies from winter to spring in Brazil, in case of the flu-like syndrome among children to avoid spring and/or summer in Taiwan, and the rainy season in the potential respiratory severity of HMPV. Vietnam . This study was a brief duration of observa- Abbreviations tion for only the first three months of the year. Further ARI Acute Respiratory Tract Infection longitudinal study would be required for us to document CDC Center for Disease Control and Prevention cDNA Complimentary DNA the seasonality for this setting. Samples from different COPD Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease areas should be tested. Ct Cycle threshold value Due to the similar seasonal distribution of HMPV DNA Deoxyribonucleic acid HMPV Human Metapneumovirus and other respiratory viruses, the potential co-infection NC Negative control likely existed. Some studies have found a co-infection PC Positive Control rate of up to 70% in HMPV . In this study, RTIs Respiratory Tract Infections RNA Ribonucleic acid the majority of HMPV-infected cases did not show any RSV Respiratory Syncytial Virus co-infections. Only two out of 14 positive patients were RT-PCR Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction 5. Kumar SG, Majumdar A, Kumar V, Naik BN, Selvaraj K, Balajee K. Prevalence URTIs Upper Respiratory Tract Infections of acute respiratory infection among under-five children in urban and rural VTM Viral Transportation Media areas of Puducherry, India. J Nat Sci Biology Med. 2015;6(1):3–6. 6. GBD 2017 Lower Respiratory Infections Collaborators. Quantifying risks and Acknowledgements interventions that have affected the burden of lower respiratory infections We would like to thank all the supporting staff of the Department of among children younger than 5 years: an analysis for the global burden of Kamalpokhari, Kathmandu, Nepal. associated risk factors. Rama Univ J Med Sci. 2015;1(1):1–5. 8. WHO. Fact sheets 2022. Pneumonia in Children. 11 November 2022. https:// Authors’
