NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: alogliptin, liver, injury, liver injury, dpp-, reported, dpp- inhibitors, acute, inhibitors, agents, cases, enzyme, inhibitor, acute liver, clinically apparent


the clinical features have not been defined. Cases of clinically apparent acute liver injury have been reported with other DPP-4 inhibitors such as sitagliptin and saxagliptin. The latency to onset was typically within 2 to 12 weeks of starting and the pattern of liver enzyme elevations was usually hepatocellular. Immunoallergic features were often present. Most cases were self-limited in course and rapidly reversed once the medication was stopped. 2 LiverTox Likelihood score: E* (unproven but suspected cause of acute, idiosyncratic liver injury). Mechanism of Injury The cause of liver injury during alogliptin or other DPP-4 inhibitor therapy is not known. Alogliptin is mostly excreted unchanged and only a small proportion (<10%) is metabolized in the liver. Alogliptin has minimal drug-drug interactions. Outcome and Management The instances of liver injury associated with the DPP-4 inhibitors have ranged from mild self-limited serum enzyme elevations to clinically apparent hepatitis and acute liver failure. However, the details of cases with liver injury have not been published. Routine monitoring of serum aminotransferase levels is not recommended but prompt testing for liver test abnormalities is recommended for patients reporting symptoms that may indicate liver injury. The similarity in chemical structure among the DPP-4 inhibitors suggests that there may be cross sensitivity to hepatic injury among the different agents, but this has not been reported. However, the other common antidiabetic medications in use should be tolerated without increased risk of liver injury. References regarding the hepatotoxicity and safety of the DPP-4 inhibitors are given in the Overview section of DPP-4 Inhibitors (updated 03 January 2018). Drug Class: Antidiabetic Agents, Incretin-Based Drugs Other Drugs in the Subclass, Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 (DPP-4) Inhibitors: Linagliptin, Saxagliptin, Sitagliptin PRODUCT INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE TRADE NAMES Alogliptin – Nesina® DRUG CLASS Antidiabetic Agents COMPLETE LABELING Product labeling at DailyMed, National Library of Medicine, NIH CHEMICAL FORMULA AND STRUCTURE ERUTCURTS ALUMROF RALUCELOM .ON YRTSIGER SAC GURD 2O-6H-7C.2O-5N-12H-81C 6-26-946058 nitpilgolA Alogliptin 3
