Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, polyp, life, patient, expectancy, guidance, life expectancy, polyps, management, polypectomy, decision, cancer, colorectal, cci


Guideline BSG/ACPGBI guidance on the management of colorectal polyps in patients with limited life expectancy Matthew D Rutter ,1,2 Ravi Ranjan ,1,2 Clare Westwood,1 Jamie Barbour ,3 Adam Biran,2,4 Helen Blackett,5 Nicholas Ewin Burr ,6 John Carlisle,7 Barry Clare,8 Neil Cripps,9 Peter Coyne,10 Sunil Dolwani,11 Rachel Hodson,5 Stephen Holtham,12 Noor Mohammed,13 Eva J A Morris,14 Laura Neilson,15 Raymond Oliphant,16 John Painter,15 Anand Prakash,17 Rupert Pullan,18 Sanchoy Sarkar,19 Marion Sloan,20 Michael Swart,21 Siwan Thomas- Gibson,22 Nigel J Trudgill ,23 Margaret Vance,22 Katie Yeadon,24 Linda Sharp 2 ► Additional supplemental ABSTRACT INTRODUCTION material is published online Background Determining optimal management Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most common only. To view, please visit the of colorectal polyps in patients with limited life cancer worldwide.1 Almost all CRCs arise from journal online (https:// doi. org/ 10. 1136/ gutjnl- 2025-3 35047). expectancy of under 10 years can be difficult, due to polyps, although only a small proportion of polyps challenges balancing an uncertain natural history of progress to CRC.2 In most cases, progression For numbered affiliations see end of article. polyp progression to symptomatic malignancy versus follows a timeline of at least a decade from inception the increased risk and consequences of polypectomy to CRC development. As the endoscopist cannot Correspondence to complications. predict which polyp will progress to CRC, they will Professor Matthew D Rutter; Aim This British Society of Gastroenterology and usually remove all: this necessarily involves over- matt. rutter@ nhs. net Association of Coloproctologists of Great Britain and treatment. For patients without substantial comor- Received 7 February 2025 Ireland guidance aims to help clinicians and patients bidity, the risk from overtreatment (complications from the endoscopic procedure) is small; hence, in Accepted 11 April 2025 consider these risks to aid decision- making for general, the balance favours polypectomy.3 polypectomy versus a conservative approach. Polyps are increasingly diagnosed in elderly Methods A guidance development group patients and those with significant comorbidity, comprising 28 members was established, including due to an ageing population, a lower threshold for gastroenterologists, colorectal surgeons, elderly care lower GI investigation and better polyp detection at colonoscopy. In people whose life expectancy is endoscopists, a general practitioner and patient anticipated to be less than a decade, the likelihood representatives. Estimates on life expectancy stratified by of overtreatment increases, as there is less time for age and comorbidity, polyp dwell time for differing polyp any polyp to progress to symptomatic CRC
