Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, polyp, life, patient, expectancy, guidance, life expectancy, polyps, management, polypectomy, decision, cancer, colorectal, cci


on life expectancy stratified by of overtreatment increases, as there is less time for age and comorbidity, polyp dwell time for differing polyp any polyp to progress to symptomatic CRC within sizes, cancer sojourn time and polypectomy complication their lifetime. Patients with limited life expectancy rates for comorbid/elderly patients both on and off also have an increased risk of procedure-r elated antithrombotic medication were collated from various complications, both from endoscopic therapy and literature searches. A model was created to compare the from the diagnostic procedure itself (including risk of symptomatic malignancy in a patient’s lifetime from bowel preparation and potential cessation of against the risk of significant complications. antithrombotic medication).4 5 Moreover, the risk Results Following a modified Delphi consensus process of morbidity and mortality following a complica- and after three rounds of voting, 33 recommendations tion also increases. Hence the risk: benefit balance were made within 10 domains (principles, diagnostic changes, and there may be times when there is either investigation, life expectancy, polyp and cancer little chance of benefit from polypectomy, or where natural history, polypectomy risks, management the risk of harm exceeds any potential benefit: recommendations, follow- up, decision- making sometimes doing nothing is the wisest option.4 6 © Author(s) (or their practicalities, training and education, future research). It can be difficult for patients and clinicians to employer(s)) 2025. Re- use A table was created, summarising whether polypectomy understand and balance the risk of immediate harm permitted under CC BY- NC. No or conservative management might be the favoured from endoscopic procedural complications with commercial re- use. See rights option for 40 clinical scenarios of patients with differing a patient’s future risk of harm from potentially and permissions. Published by life expectancy, polyp sizes and use of antithrombotic developing a symptomatic CRC if a polyp is not BMJ Group. medication. removed. A qualitative study of decision-m aking Westwood C, et al. Gut Epub facilitate more objective and informed decision- making, in patients with limited life expectancy revealed ahead of print: [please include Day Month Year]. from which an individualised plan can be developed that uncertainties such as polyp dwell time, life doi:10.1136/ between the patient and their clinician. expectancy and polypectomy risk led to variation gutjnl-2025-335047 in practice, perhaps most commonly favouring Guideline overtreatment (polypectomy).7 These challenges and inconsis- Assessment of evidence and formulation of recommendations tencies prompted the development of this consensus guidance, The development
