Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, polyp, life, patient, expectancy, guidance, life expectancy, polyps, management, polypectomy, decision, cancer, colorectal, cci


in practice, perhaps most commonly favouring Guideline overtreatment (polypectomy).7 These challenges and inconsis- Assessment of evidence and formulation of recommendations tencies prompted the development of this consensus guidance, The development of this guidance was in line with the Grading with the aim of helping clinicians and patients make more of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation informed decisions. (GRADE). During guidance planning, it was apparent that the questions would not be conducive to formal GRADE recom- mendations, due to a lack of high-q uality data. Therefore, good METHODS practice statements (GPS) and expert opinion (EO) statements This consensus guidance was developed in accordance with British were developed.9 Society of Gastroenterology (BSG) guidance methodology.8 The conservative management and polypectomy models Guidance development group A semi- Markov state- transition model was created to simu- Approval was granted by the BSG and Association of Coloproc- late the clinical outcomes of comorbid or elderly patients with tologists of Great Britain and Ireland (ACPGBI) for the creation conservatively managed polyps of different sizes. Models of of this joint guidance. A steering group was formed to develop 1000 patients were run for various ‘clinical scenarios’ of different the guidance development group (GDG) and to draft potential polyp sizes (1–5 mm, 6–9 mm, 10–19 mm and ≥20 mm) and for domains and questions (online supplemental appendix 1). The all Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI) scores. The conservative GDG comprised gastroenterologists, colorectal surgeons, clin- management model and its assumptions are described in detail in online supplemental appendix 5. Sensitivity analyses were run practitioners, epidemiologists and public representatives. for various alternative scenarios, including shorter/longer life Members were recommended by the steering group, societies expectancy for each CCI score, shorter/longer polyp dwell times and the GDG itself, based on those with prior participation in and shorter/longer cancer sojourn times and differing polypec- or publication of similar work. The first meeting of GDG was tomy risks. convened online, and the draft guidance domains and questions, A separate polypectomy model was created to estimate along with GDG membership, were reviewed and revised. All outcomes following therapeutic intervention (ie, polypectomy) members completed conflict of interest forms and no conflicts of significance were identified. became clear that the use of antithrombotic medication was an important factor in the overall risk of a significant adverse event Evidence and literature search (both bleeding and a thromboembolic event). Therefore, sepa- Literature searches were performed to provide the evidence rate
