Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, polyp, life, patient, expectancy, guidance, life expectancy, polyps, management, polypectomy, decision, cancer, colorectal, cci


and this decision aid should not be seen as providing a definitive answer. ·The RAG rating provides a simple starting point to guide decision-m aking discussion. Red: favour conservative management; Amber: marginal; Green: favour polypectomy. The inset figures are modelled estimates based on many assumptions where the evidence base is weak. They should be used with caution and should not be taken as factual, but may help frame a more detailed discussion with the patient. (a) C @ (b) y = (a) cancers at (b) years per 1000 patients; where b years is the estimated mean life expectancy. The estimated 10- year survival provided by CCI calculators is not required for this guidance (see manuscript text). AE, estimated adverse events per 1000 patients; CCI, age-a djusted Charlson Comorbidity Index score. Guideline Table 2 Summary of role- specific recommendations Diagnostic referral Referrer Consider comorbidity and frailty when discussing referrals with patients. If referral is appropriate, include frailty score (and CCI) if possible. Endoscopy booking (admin) team Collaborate with the clinical team to create a process for identifying patients with frailty or significant comorbidity who need to be escalated to the clinical team for review. Referral letter/preassessment team Identify patients with frailty and comorbidities; calculate frailty score and CCI if possible; refer the patient to clinic to permit further patient assessment and discussion of options. suitable. If a diagnostic test is appropriate, choose the correct test for the patient and establish a management ceiling with them. Postdiagnostic procedure polyp management decisions Referrals to polyp MDT Include CCI score with the referral. Polyp MDT Consider the CCI score from the online CCI calculator when evaluating management options (only the CCI score is needed, not the estimated 10- year % survival). Use the guidance table to inform recommendations. Discussion with patient Use the guidance table as a foundation for shared decision-m aking, and tailor decisions based on specific case details and patient preferences. CCI, Charlson Comorbidity Index; MDT, multi-d isciplinary team. Face validity of the model was assessed by applying it to 40 where the patient comes to no harm. As with any guidance, there real- life examples of patients with conservatively managed will be cases where the preferred option for a scenario proves polyps. wrong for a particular patient (either harm from therapy or examples (online supplemental appendix 4) were also devel- ance is to maximise the proportion of optimal decisions and to
