Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, polyp, life, patient, expectancy, guidance, life expectancy, polyps, management, polypectomy, decision, cancer, colorectal, cci


polyps. wrong for a particular patient (either harm from therapy or examples (online supplemental appendix 4) were also devel- ance is to maximise the proportion of optimal decisions and to oped, along with a summary algorithm (figure 1). minimise overall harm. RESULTS Diagnostic investigation In three rounds of voting, consensus was reached on 86 state- ► GPS: We recommend that patients with a limited life expec- ments. 53 statements were either downgraded to supporting tancy should only undergo diagnostic colorectal investiga- text or merged. The final document has 33 statements (online tions if the outcome of the investigation has the potential to supplemental appendix 6). benefit the patient and that the patient or their representa- tive should be involved in any decision to investigate. Guidance aims, definitions and exclusions ► GPS: We recommend that if investigation is deemed appro- ► The aim of this guidance is to support patients with limited priate for prognostication in a patient unfit for intervention, decision- making regarding polyp management, by providing irrelevant benign polyps, that CT abdomen/pelvis is under- a more objective framework. taken rather than colonoscopy or CT colonography (CTC). ► For this guidance, we define limited life expectancy as mean ► GPS: We recommend that prior to a diagnostic procedure in life expectancy of less than 10 years, as this covers the times- all patients with frailty or a limited life expectancy, a clear cale when overtreatment is most prevalent. threshold for therapy is set and discussed with the patient or ► This guidance does not cover people with transient illness or their representative as part of the informed consent process. transient frailty. ► EO: While it is preferable to set the threshold for therapy ► This guidance does not cover people who have been diag- prior to the procedure, if an endoscopist needs to make a nosed with CRC. periprocedural management decision about a polyp during a ► This guidance does not cover people with hereditary poly- diagnostic procedure, in general, it is safe to remove polyps posis, genetic CRC syndromes or inflammatory bowel amenable to cold snare resection if appropriate. Various factors should be considered when determining harm—should be borne in mind when planning investigation or management options and optimal management of polyps in intervention. Particularly in patients with limited life expectancy patients with limited life expectancy, including patient-r elated, due to comorbidity or frailty, the effects of intervention on
