Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, polyp, life, patient, expectancy, guidance, life expectancy, polyps, management, polypectomy, decision, cancer, colorectal, cci


management of polyps in intervention. Particularly in patients with limited life expectancy patients with limited life expectancy, including patient-r elated, due to comorbidity or frailty, the effects of intervention on their polyp- related and therapy-r elated considerations. Patient-r elated quality of life, consequences of complications from intervention, considerations include estimated life expectancy, functional as well as their ability to recover from side effects of invasive status and potential resilience to any procedural complication, intervention can be profound and need to be considered when and the patient’s wishes and concerns. Polyp-r elated considera- making such decisions. Even a diagnostic investigation may cause tions include size, morphology, location, multiplicity, patholog- unnecessary discomfort and anxiety, especially if an individual is ical polyp type, risk of the polyp harbouring malignancy and too frail for an intervention, or an intervention is deemed futile. risk of future progression to malignancy, along with whether the In general, diagnostic colorectal investigation should be avoided polyp is causing the patient troublesome symptoms. Therapy- in patients with limited life expectancy unless the patient is expe- related considerations include the therapeutic options available, riencing troublesome symptoms that require a diagnosis to aid likelihood of success, procedure-s pecific complexity of polypec- management, or unless the patient would be fit for intervention tomy and the likelihood of complications. where CRC is to be detected. In some scenarios, either option (polypectomy or conservative Primary care may have additional information on how an management) may be acceptable: for example, overtreatment individual has coped physically and psychologically in previous Guideline Figure 1 Summary algorithm of guidance. times of physiological stress, and this information may be helpful also weigh the risk of deferring therapy which might subject the in decision- making. It is important to support patients and their patient to additional risks of a subsequent therapeutic proce- advocates in understanding the risks and the benefits to help dure. In general, it is safe to remove polyps up to 10 mm as them in shared decision-m aking. they are amenable to the safer technique of cold snare resec- In the event of a less invasive investigation such as a CT scan tion, although it is preferable to follow the more detailed polyp- being planned for prognostication only, the purpose and limita- specific and patient- specific recommendations in this guidance tions of the investigation should be explained, that is, that it is where possible. to rule out significant
