Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, polyp, life, patient, expectancy, guidance, life expectancy, polyps, management, polypectomy, decision, cancer, colorectal, cci


the purpose and limita- specific and patient- specific recommendations in this guidance tions of the investigation should be explained, that is, that it is where possible. to rule out significant pathology, but other incidental clinically insignificant findings may be found. For patients with limited life expectancy undergoing colonoscopy, the consent process should Understanding life expectancy, comorbidity and frailty in the include discussion about thresholds of therapy with reasoning context of decision-making for colorectal polyps based on this guidance. ► EO: Quantification of life expectancy of an individual The balance of risk and benefit is different during the proce- is challenging and imprecise. While comorbidity indices dure, because the patient will have already been exposed to remain imperfect in predicting the life expectancy of an certain risks (eg, the risks of stopping antithrombotic medica- individual with advanced age or significant comorbidities, to make decisions regarding the value of diagnostic investi- decision-m aking. gation and the threshold for therapy prior to the procedure. ► EO: The Rockwood Clinical Frailty Scale or Electronic When this has not occurred, and the endoscopist must make Frailty Index may also aid the identification of patients with a periprocedural decision regarding polyp resection, they must limited life expectancy. Guideline ► GPS: We recommend that the CCI is most suited for esti- calculators is not required for the purpose of this guidance, as mating life expectancy in patients being considered for diag- explained in the previous paragraph. The early identification nostic colorectal investigation or therapeutic intervention. of patients with frailty and comorbidity is important, facili- For this guidance, tools that predict life expectancy over a tated by calculation of the appropriate score, so that different period of at least 10 years are required, to align with the natural management options can be considered and discussed with the similar life expectancy of 10 years.10 requesting the procedure will usually be appropriate for patients Life expectancy is notoriously difficult to predict. Life expec- with high CCI or frailty scores. tancy can be calculated for any age, estimating the average additional years a person can expect to live given the age they have attained. Estimates will depend on the characteristics of Understanding the risk of polyp progression to symptomatic the population being studied and are, by necessity, an average cancer tions. They should, therefore, be interpreted within a range of annual cancer transition rate from polyps is approximately uncertainty. Average age-b
