Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, polyp, life, patient, expectancy, guidance, life expectancy, polyps, management, polypectomy, decision, cancer, colorectal, cci


being studied and are, by necessity, an average cancer tions. They should, therefore, be interpreted within a range of annual cancer transition rate from polyps is approximately uncertainty. Average age-b ased life expectancy for a UK popula- 10% for polyps≥20 mm, 3.3% for polyps 10–19 mm, 1% tion is available from the Office of National Statistics.11 Broadly, for polyps 6–9 mm and 0.2% for polyps 1–5 mm in size. people aged 80 years or older have a life expectancy of 10 years ► EO: While cancer sojourn time will vary, we estimate that an or fewer. asymptomatic cancer takes an average of 3 years, and up to conditions and diseases, often referred to as comorbidity or Only a minority of polyps progress to CRC, and even when conditions). This is increasing in prevalence, with estimates of a precancerous polyp to malignancy and CRC-r elated death.23 suggesting that below the age of 65 years, it is present in approx- Thus, many elderly or comorbid individuals will be more likely imately 30% of adults, whereas in those above the age of 65 to die of natural causes than from CRC. Frailty is often defined as a multidimensional and dynamic including colon capsule endoscopy and CTC, already include condition characterised by declines in reserve and function recommendations for conservative management of certain across multiple physiological systems, such that the ability to polyps.24 cope with everyday or acute stressors becomes compromised.14 Our systematic review revealed a few small observational The overall prevalence of frailty is variable depending on age, studies of polyp dwell time, along with a few modelling studies. nition used for the classification. It is generally accepted to be feasible. Therefore, the steering group selected studies that best 10.7% in community- dwelling older adults, 47.4% in geriatric presented the data required for this guidance. We opted to base Frailty and comorbidity are distinct entities but have signifi- was large scale (3.6 million screening colonoscopies), relatively cant overlap. There are several practical ways of assessing frailty contemporaneous and provided granular annual transition rate and comorbidity, with various indices often used in community data, including by 5- year age cohorts and both for transitions aimed at identifying people whose decline in several physiolog- adenomas to CRC. The GDG also acknowledged that compared relatively minor stressor events. Therefore, while they may be higher end of the range, which was felt to be prudently cautious helpful
