Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, polyp, life, patient, expectancy, guidance, life expectancy, polyps, management, polypectomy, decision, cancer, colorectal, cci


to CRC. The GDG also acknowledged that compared relatively minor stressor events. Therefore, while they may be higher end of the range, which was felt to be prudently cautious helpful in identifying patients in whom this guidance is appli- for the first iteration of this guidance. cable, they are of limited use when estimating life expectancy The granularity of these transition estimates was further over a longer period. enhanced by applying more detailed data on the relative propor- We suggest the CCI is most suited for estimating life expec- tions and malignancy rates by adenoma size from a large, English tancy for this guidance. The CCI is the most validated and study.25 This allowed annual CRC transition rates from various widely used score that stratifies life expectancy up to 10 years.19 polyp sizes to be estimated. An age- adjusted version was subsequently developed and vali- A fixed cancer sojourn time of 3 years was used for the model, dated.20 We opted to use the age- adjusted CCI for our model. based on the Nordic- European Initiative on Colorectal Cancer The CCI has been used on many different patient cohorts across (NordICC) trial, which showed control/intervention cancer required granular data including 1-y ear mortality for a compa- cancers had been detected by 6 years, giving a mean sojourn time rable population (ie, community-b ased). We identified a large, of 3 years.26 This was acknowledged by the GDG to be at the community- based study that provided 1- year mortality rates for more rapid end of sojourn times from studies and models. Other each CCI score.21 These data were sense-c hecked against a CCI models have used rates of up to mean 6.7 years sojourn time.27 study using UK primary care data (summary data provided by the lead author).22 Various online age- adjusted CCI calculators are available, Assessing polyps and understanding the risk of complications including from polypectomy bidity-index-cci. This tool can be used to calculate the CCI score, ► GPS: We recommend all polyps are carefully assessed for which can then be used for this guidance to aid decision-m aking. endoscopic features that the lesion might be harbouring The ‘estimated 10-y ear survival’ provided by such online cancer. Guideline ► GPS: We recommend that the SMSA (Size, Morphology, Patients taking antithrombotic medication are at particularly Site, Access) scoring system is used to assess the complexity high risk, both of postpolypectomy bleeding
