Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, polyp, life, patient, expectancy, guidance, life expectancy, polyps, management, polypectomy, decision, cancer, colorectal, cci


risk of ectomy techniques.46 47 There is increasing evidence that small malignant transformation. polyps can safely be removed without antithrombotic medica- ► EO: While there is considerable uncertainty about the risk of tion cessation (plus or minus endoscopic clipping), which should polypectomy in people of advanced age and with substantial reduce the risk of thromboembolic events. As with any polyp, an comorbidity, we estimate the following significant compli- adequately trained endoscopist should undertake the procedure, cation (hospitalisation) risk per 1000 elderly/comorbid especially in patients with limited life expectancy, where the risk patients, which includes both the colonoscopy risk and the and implication of complications is higher. Equally important polypectomy- specific risk: for these patients is clear postprocedure advice about complica- medication). cope with complications and delays to treatment. – 6–9 mm polypectomy: 15 (45 if on antithrombotic We acknowledge that there is considerable uncertainty medication). surrounding the risk of polypectomy in people of advanced age – 10–19 mm polypectomy: 25 (75 if on antithrombotic and with substantial comorbidity. There is no single source of medication). excellent data that takes age, comorbidity, differing polyp sizes – ≥20 mm polypectomy: 45 (135 if on antithrombotic and severity of both procedural and non- procedural complica- medication). tions into account. Garcia-A lbeniz’s study calculated the excess ► EO: The consequences of complications (morbidity and 30- day risk of colonoscopy significant adverse event (hospital- mortality) can be more marked for elderly patients or isation) in a 75- year-o ld to 79- year-o ld cohort (when compared patients with comorbidities, due to loss of biological reserve with a similar cohort not undergoing colonoscopy) as 10.3 per and failure of physiological mechanisms. 1000.48 We have taken this as the baseline risk for our guid- ► GPS: We recommend that, to aid polyp management ance, then adjusted, using data from various other studies quoted decision- making, the risk of surgery following an endoscopic above, to estimate the risk in an elderly/comorbid cohort of complication can be assessed using risk prediction tools such patients undergoing polypectomy of various sizes, both with/ as the ColoRectal Physiological and Operative Severity without antithrombotic medication. Score for the enumeration of Mortality and morbidity tool (CR -POSSUM). Polyps should be assessed thoroughly prior to making a Management recommendations management decision, using existing guidelines for assessing the ► EO: This guidance is based on modelling and EO and is risk of the presence of cancer
