Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, polyp, life, patient, expectancy, guidance, life expectancy, polyps, management, polypectomy, decision, cancer, colorectal, cci


making a Management recommendations management decision, using existing guidelines for assessing the ► EO: This guidance is based on modelling and EO and is risk of the presence of cancer in polyp as well as the complexi- intended to provide an objective framework to support clini- ties of polypectomy.28 29 Care should be taken when interpreting cians and patients during shared decision- making. However, CTC descriptions of polyps: while the endoscopist can assess there remains a substantial degree of uncertainty, which pit and vascular patterns and look for ulceration or other malig- should be explained to patients. Decisions will always need to nant features, the radiologist cannot, hampering their ability be individualised as they are nuanced and multidimensional. to discriminate between benign and malignant lesions; hence ► GPS: We recommend that polypectomy is only appropriate particular care should be taken for lesions of ≥10 mm in size. where the benefit outweighs the risk of harm. Colonoscopy carries the risk of significant procedural adverse ► EO: Polyps rarely cause symptoms, but where the patient events including perforation and bleeding.30 In addition to the is experiencing troublesome symptoms attributable to the risks of the procedure, there is a risk of renal and cardiovascular polyp, polypectomy might be required for symptom control. compromise associated with the bowel preparation, cardiopul- ► GPS: We recommend that in the absence of symptoms, monary complications associated with sedation and thrombo- the likelihood of a polyp affecting an elderly or comorbid embolic events including major stroke.31–33 Procedural risks are patient’s quality of life through progression to a sympto- significantly higher for therapeutic procedures such as polypec- matic cancer during their lifetime should be considered tomy and increase as the size of polyps increases.30 when making management decisions. When there is no Guideline reasonable potential for progression to symptomatic CRC harm of colonoscopy resides in the cessation of antithrombotic due to limited life expectancy, conservative management medication and the use of bowel preparation medication. Thus, should be considered. avoiding unnecessary future examination helps minimise this ► EO: Patients should be informed that a decision to manage risk. We acknowledge that conservative management will remain a polyp conservatively is reversible if circumstances change. a challenging concept for some colleagues and patients. The model was run multiple times for different clinical For patients with limited life expectancy undergoing polypec- scenarios, the results of which are summarised in table 1. More tomy,
