Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, polyp, life, patient, expectancy, guidance, life expectancy, polyps, management, polypectomy, decision, cancer, colorectal, cci


patients. The model was run multiple times for different clinical For patients with limited life expectancy undergoing polypec- scenarios, the results of which are summarised in table 1. More tomy, the standard follow- up with interval colonoscopy or CTC detailed modelling scenarios are provided in online supple- is unlikely to benefit them as the risks of future malignancy in mental appendix 7. their lifetime would be even lower postresection, but the risk It is important to emphasise that while our guidance provides from the procedure will continue to increase with time. Never- more objective information on which patients and clinicians can theless, this decision should be individualised, involving the make a management decision, individual patients might have patient, and considering such factors as the quality of the base- different preferences, particularly for areas of uncertainty or line colorectal investigation. where the options are fairly balanced. We highlight that: Our comparative model assumes parity between substantial harm from therapy (defined as patient hospitalisation) and the Decision-making practicalities and patient communication development of symptomatic CRC. Some patients might recover ► GPS: We recommend that decisions on the management of fully following hospitalisation from an adverse event, whereas complex polyps are supported through case discussion at a others might not survive; conversely, some patients might die dedicated polyp Multi-D iscipinary Team (MDT) meeting from their CRC, whereas others might have minimal symptoms and that decisions are clearly documented. during their lifetime. ► GPS: We recommend that the patient or their advocate Our model does not consider the timing of those harms. should be involved in decision- making on the management Iatrogenic harm is immediate, whereas harm from a symptom- of complex colorectal polyps. atic cancer occurs several years later. Patient may have different ► GPS: We recommend that life expectancy and polyp dwell preferences. We acknowledge that health economic modelling time should be discussed with patients. incorporating quality-a djusted life-y ears would likely be more ► GPS: We recommend that the frequency and the conse- favourable towards conservative management because of this, quences of complications should be considered and discussed although deferred treatment costs might be greater. with the patient. Our guidance will not cover all scenarios but can form a basis ► GPS: We recommend that the discussion with the patient or from which individualised decisions can be made. For example, their advocate should happen in an environment separate general, the risks/benefits
