Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, polyp, life, patient, expectancy, guidance, life expectancy, polyps, management, polypectomy, decision, cancer, colorectal, cci


GPS: We recommend that the discussion with the patient or from which individualised decisions can be made. For example, their advocate should happen in an environment separate general, the risks/benefits of therapy over conservative manage- from a polyp MDT. ment can be calculated for, and guided by, the largest polyp, ► GPS: We recommend that the discussion about polyp there may be scenarios where a patient with multiple large management with the patient or patient advocate should be polyps is considered at greater risk of progression to cancer, or done by a clinician who has sufficient experience with such of therapeutic complication, which may influence the manage- patients. ment decision. Realistic medicine is about providing the care people value and acknowledging that people’s priorities may be different from healthcare providers. There should be the right balance Follow-up between science and the art of care, balancing evidence, profes- ► GPS: We recommend that patients with a limited life expec- sional judgement, people’s preference and compassion. This tancy with conservatively managed polyps usually do not can be achieved by practising the six pillars of realistic medi- require follow-u p and can be discharged to the referring cine, which are: building a personalised approach to care, shared clinician for best supportive care. However, for a selected decision making, reducing harm and waste, managing risk better, group of patients in whom the decision has been difficult or tackling unwarranted variations and becoming improvers and marginal, a defined period of follow-u p with clear, agreed innovators.49 expectations may be reasonable. In a qualitative study undertaken to inform the development of ► GPS: We recommend that endoscopic postpolypectomy this guidance, physicians and surgeons acknowledged difficulties surveillance for patients with a limited life expectancy is of decision- making, exacerbated by uncertainties with respect to usually not necessary, as the risk of endoscopic procedures is the speed of polyp progression and the estimation of patient life ► GPS: We recommend that both the patient and their refer- ences of individual patients was recognised as crucial. However, ring clinician are provided with clear written information discussions with patients can be challenging, not only because about the conservative management plan, including specific of inherent uncertainties, but also difficulties understanding and advice on trigger points for patient-i nitiated follow-u p. communicating risk, the possibility of patients’ and clinicians’ The importance of CCI as the indicator for the selection of preconceptions of
