Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, polyp, life, patient, expectancy, guidance, life expectancy, polyps, management, polypectomy, decision, cancer, colorectal, cci


advice on trigger points for patient-i nitiated follow-u p. communicating risk, the possibility of patients’ and clinicians’ The importance of CCI as the indicator for the selection of preconceptions of the necessity to intervene to prevent cancer conservative over interventional management is that the risk– and the need to acknowledge the reality of a patient’s limited benefit equation will not improve over time. Therefore, in life expectancy. Objective discussions about life expectancy can general, it is safe practice to avoid planned follow-u p. There improve the consent process, helping individuals and clinicians will be instances when symptoms arise in patients whose polyps decide whether to proceed. We hope that this consensus-l ed, have been managed conservatively; in these circumstances, a decision-m aking guidance facilitates such discussions. senior decision- maker familiar with this guidance should be Current BSG/ACPGBI guidelines advocate discussion of all involved in any re- referral, to avoid any unnecessary and poten- patients diagnosed with a complex colorectal polyp within a tially harmful future investigation. At least some of the potential specific complex colorectal polyp MDT meeting.28 Ideally, the Guideline complex polyp MDT should be separated from the colorectal from periodic attendance at polyp MDT meetings to develop MDT, although membership of both groups will often overlap. greater understanding of these complex decision- making Membership of the complex polyp MDT should, at least, include processes. representation from operators who perform all options of ther- The GDG also identified research and service development apies available. Ideally, a clinician who has met the patient and priorities: is able to advocate for their preferences and beliefs should also ► Further research is needed to better understand polyp dwell be present. If this is not possible, then information regarding any time (including from CTC and colon capsule endoscopy preinvestigation or post- polyp diagnosis discussions regarding patient cohorts) and cancer sojourn time. limits of treatment should be available. It is also useful for the ► Further research into the risk of significant adverse events MDT to have available any information on prognosis from pre- following polypectomy in elderly and comorbid patients, existing disease such as cancer and calculation of CCI to allow supported by robust case identification and a national meaningful discussion. With this information to hand, the MDT reporting system for post- endoscopy unplanned admissions. can shape discussions on treatment options to the individual A structured review of such events (capturing the CCI,
