Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, polyp, life, patient, expectancy, guidance, life expectancy, polyps, management, polypectomy, decision, cancer, colorectal, cci


information to hand, the MDT reporting system for post- endoscopy unplanned admissions. can shape discussions on treatment options to the individual A structured review of such events (capturing the CCI, the patient. Risks and benefits of proposed treatments should be role and type of antithrombotic medication and considering documented in the context of the life expectancy of the patient. whether the procedure was necessary and whether it contrib- The ultimate clinical decision is made between the lead clinician uted to the admission) would allow subsequent refinement and the patient, with the support of information from the MDT of this guidance. to allow an informed decision to be made. Where polyp MDTs ► Further research into how well comorbidity indices and are not available, the guidance can still be applied, involving the frailty scores predict life expectancy up to 10 years. relevant personnel as necessary. ► Studies to assess the benefit of conservative management in Following the MDT meeting, options should be communi- patients with limited life expectancy, with consideration of a cated with the patient in an outpatient clinic setting. These national registry to provide further information. discussions are complex and should be led by a clinician ► Consideration of automatic calculation of the CCI from who is experienced both in complex polyp management and General Practice (GP) electronic data. advanced communication. Adequate time should be allocated ► A greater understanding of public opinion on this topic. to allow discussion regarding the implications of a polyp ► Consideration that future colonoscopy polyp detection diagnosis and estimated timeline for polyp progression in metrics exclude patients aged 80 and over, to reduce perverse relation to the life expectancy of the patient. incentives for overtreatment. Implications of therapy, including the frequency and conse- quences of all potential complications, should be openly GUIDANCE REVIEW discussed within the context of the patient’s limited life We recommend that this guidance should be considered for expectancy. This shared decision- making approach should review between 5 and 10 years from date of publication. be taken to reach a joint decision about care when deciding on treatment. Pre- emptive consideration should be given Author affiliations whether in that eventuality, it would be feasible to operate. 3Gastroenterology, QE Gateshead, Gateshead, UK This should be discussed and documented in advance of any 4Public Representative, Newcastle, UK Sharing treatment decision- making with patients is widely 6Gastroenterology, Mid- Yorkshire Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust,
