Guideline
KEYWORDS: patients, risk, polyp, life, patient, expectancy, guidance, life expectancy, polyps, management, polypectomy, decision, cancer, colorectal, cci


UK This should be discussed and documented in advance of any 4Public Representative, Newcastle, UK Sharing treatment decision- making with patients is widely 6Gastroenterology, Mid- Yorkshire Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust, Leeds, UK accepted as fundamental to good healthcare.50 The National 7Anaesthesia, Torbay and South Devon NHS Foundation Trust, Torquay, UK 8Public Representative, Darlington, UK Health Service constitution and General Medical Council (GMC) consent principles advocate the involvement of 10Colorectal Surgery, Newcastle Upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, patients, their families and carers. These consultations take Newcastle upon Tyne, UK time, and it is advocated that a family member or carer be 11Gastroenterology, Cardiff and Vale NHS Trust, Cardiff, UK present during the consultation process. Patients should be encouraged to take time to consider the options presented to Leeds, UK sary, and patients should be informed that any decision to 15Gastroenterology, South Tyneside and Sunderland NHS Foundation Trust, manage a polyp conservatively can be reconsidered if the Sunderland, UK situation changes. Examples of the shared decision- making approach are avail- 18Colorectal Surgery, South Devon Healthcare Trust, Torquay, UK UK 20Sloan Medical Centre, Sheffield, UK Training, education and research questions 21Anaesthesia and Critical care, Torbay and South Devon NHS Foundation Trust, Torquay, UK limited life expectancy would be beneficial, to reduce the Exeter, UK risk of overtreatment and patient harm. The GDG recom- X Sunil Dolwani @sdolwani mended that education should be provided for endoscopists Acknowledgements We thank Jenny Pipe, ACPGBI patient liaison group and consenters to facilitate preprocedure decision- making member, for her assistance in writing the lay summary. We thank Dr Colin Crooks regarding what should/not be removed during that proce- for his assistance with English primary care population Charlson Comorbidity Index dure, and it was felt that all endoscopists would benefit scores. Guideline Contributors MDR was the lead author and chair of Guidance Development Group 7 Ranjan R, Biran A, Westwood C, et al. P179 Decision- making around management of (GDG), supervised planning, conduct and reporting of this guidance and did the complex colorectal polyps: a qualitative study. Gut 2024;73:A158. modelling study. RR co- ordinated Delphi process, written initial draft, statements 8 Phull PR. BSG guidelines development, writing and review process. 2023. Available: and the manuscript, conducted the qualitative study to explore current practices for management of polyps in patients with limited life expectancy and did a systematic Guidelines-Writing-and-Review-Process-Document-March-2023.pdf review to assess timeline of progress of colorectal polyps. LS
