Leeetal.DiagnosticPathology (2020) 15:97
KEYWORDS: malakoplakia, disease, tract, gastrointestinal, gastrointestinal tract, cases, organ, patients, fig, colon, common, leeetal diagnosticpathology, status, infection, leeetal


magnification(d).HigherpowerdemonstratesMichaelis-Gutmanbodies(arrow).Thesepale,targetoidandlamellatedinclusionsareseeninthe cytoplasmofthehistiocytes.H&E600xmagnification(e) Leeetal.DiagnosticPathology (2020) 15:97 Page3of5 bleeding (n=1), abdominalpain (n=1),andfollow upof with a malignancy, 3 cancers arose in the colon. The Barrett’s esophagus (n=1). Seven cases were an inciden- other cases include 2 prostate cancers, 1 bladder cancer, tal finding adjacent to a malignant tumor on surgical re- 1 diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, 1 non-Hodgkin’s section. Our case series showed malakoplakia occurring lymphoma, and 1 invasive thymoma. Two of three colon throughout the length of the gastrointestinal tract with cancers and the diffuse large B cell lymphoma had mala- the majority of cases in the sigmoid colon and rectum koplakia within or adjacent to the tumor site. All other (n=10);othersites included the transverse anddescend- cases with an associated malignancy were negative for ing colon (n=4), stomach/gastroesophageal junction malakoplakia atornext tothetumor site. (n=4), appendix (n=2), cecum (n=1), small bowel (n= 1), and the peri-anal area (n=1). Endoscopically, these Discussion lesions most commonly appeared as polyps (n=10, Fig. To our knowledge, this is the largest case series of mala- pressions varied from a thickened, fibrotic induration to that it involves the colon with the sigmoid colon and mucosalerythema(Table 1). rectum being most frequently involved sites, followed by The gross appearance is variable but nodularity or thedescendingandtransversecolon.Themajority ofpa- mass-like growth is common. Microscopically, tients are either on an immunosuppressive medication malakoplakia demonstrates histiocytic aggregates in a (i.e. steroids, chemotherapy, immunomodulatory agents) background of acute and chronic inflammation predom- or afflicted by a disease (cancer requiring chemotherapy, inantly composed of neutrophils, lymphocytes, plasma status post organ transplant, or inflammatory bowel cells and eosinophils (Fig. 1c, e). Calcium and iron accu- disease) that compromises their immune status. If mulates on digested bacterial glycolipids taking on a malakoplakia is found in gastrointestinal mucosal biop- distinct targetoid or lamellated appearance. These baso- sies or resections, the possibility of an immunocom- philic inclusions are known as Michaelis-Gutmann bod- promised status should be communicated to the ies measuring approximately 4–10μm in size and are clinician if immune status is unknown. Recognition of pathognomonic for malakoplakia. They are readily iden- malakoplakia by the pathologist is critical in establishing tified on hematoxylin and eosin, von-Kossa, periodic appropriate patient care because antibiotic therapy (i.e. acidSchiff orironstains(Fig. 2a, b). trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, rifampicin and quin- Immunosuppression can becausedbymedications (i.e. olone) is effective and curative. These medications kill steroids, immunomodulators, chemotherapy, etc.) or the bacteria within the macrophages. Bethanechol chlor- disease states (i.e. acquired immune deficiency
