JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al
KEYWORDS: patients, antibiotic, study, day, patient, data, antibiotics, clinical, days, symptoms, trial, care, treatment, number, duration


Protocol Tailoring Antibiotic Duration for Respiratory Tract Infections in Primary Care: Protocol for a Pragmatic Randomized Controlled Trial Study (STORM) 1Institut Universitari d'Investigació en Atenció Primària Jordi Gol, Barcelona, Spain 2Instituto de Salud Carlos III, CIBER de Enfermedades Infecciosas, Madrid, Spain 3Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Bellaterra, Spain 6Department of Quantitative Methods in Economics and Management, Universidad de Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Spain *all authors contributed equally Corresponding Author: Institut Universitari d'Investigació en Atenció Primària Jordi Gol Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes, 587, àtic Barcelona, 08007 Spain Phone: 1 34 0644673590 Email: Abstract Background: Combating the rise of drug-resistant organisms and minimizing side effects requires a shift in how we approach the duration of antibiotic therapy. A promising strategy involves tailoring the length of antibiotic therapy to patients’needs, allowing discontinuation once patients feel better. Objective: This study aims to assess whether shortening antibiotic therapy based on patients’recovery time is as effective as completing the full course in treating acute respiratory tract infections (RTIs). Methods: We plan to enroll a minimum of 474 outpatients ranging from 18 to 75 years of age with clinical features of acute require a β-lactam course, will be randomized to either usual care, involving a full-course antibiotic therapy based on current guidelines, or a tailored approach. In the intervention group, patients will be advised to visit the center as soon as they feel better and are afebrile for a clinical assessment and C-reactive protein rapid testing. Treatment will be discontinued if these clinical antibiotics given and duration; adherence to the prescribed antibiotic; other therapies given; early clinical assessment at day 7; days of severe, moderate, and any symptom, complications and reattendance within the first month; drug-related adverse events; evening. Additionally, a cost-effectiveness study and qualitative studies involving clinicians and patients aimed at exploring the strategy’s pros, cons, uptake, and satisfaction levels will be carried out. Results: The final results will be published by the end of 2027. Conclusions: We will examine whether adults who present with symptoms of RTI who are treated with antibiotic courses until they feel better are as effective as longer standard courses. It is highly important that a possible reduction in the antibiotic course as soon as the patient feels better does not compromise patients’recovery. This comprehensive approach aims to shed light on the practicality and impact of tailoring antibiotic duration in RTIs. Trial Registration: ClinicalTrials.gov
