JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al
KEYWORDS: patients, antibiotic, study, day, patient, data, antibiotics, clinical, days, symptoms, trial, care, treatment, number, duration


as the patient feels better does not compromise patients’recovery. This comprehensive approach aims to shed light on the practicality and impact of tailoring antibiotic duration in RTIs. Trial Registration: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT06581367; JMIR Res Protoc 2025 | vol. 14 | e75453 | p. 1 XSL FO (page number not for citation purposes) • RenderX JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al International Registered Report Identifier (IRRID): PRR1- (JMIR Res Protoc 2025;14:e75453) doi: KEYWORDS respiratory tract infections; anti-bacterial agents; drug resistance, microbial; patient-centered care; deprescriptions; duration; drug-related side effects and adverse reactions; randomized clinical trial [10-12]. Even early trials of penicillin in pneumococcal Introduction pneumonia supported discontinuation after symptom resolution, with only 5% relapse . The judicious use of antibiotics has played a vital role in saving millions of lives and preventing serious infectious complications. Despite this, many guidelines continue to recommend longer However, excessive and inappropriate antibiotic use has become treatment durations, often unsupported by robust evidence , a major contributor to the growing global crisis of antimicrobial and clinicians frequently default to 7-day prescriptions [15-17]. resistance (AMR). Research has established a strong link The notion that completing a full antibiotic course prevents between antibiotic consumption and the emergence of resistant resistance is deeply ingrained in medical training. However, bacteria, both at the societal and individual levels . Given this dogma is not evidence-based. In fact, prolonged exposure the limited pipeline for new antibiotic development, the to antibiotics increases the selection pressure for resistant responsible use of existing antibiotics, particularly in primary organisms, both in the patient and the environment . care, is crucial to contain AMR. Even short courses can have long-term ecological effects, Primary care accounts for approximately 80% of all antibiotic including persistent colonization by resistant bacteria and prescriptions, with respiratory tract infections (RTIs) responsible disruption of the gut microbiota. Data indicate that beyond the for more than half of this total worldwide . Inappropriate first few days, the additional benefit of continuing antibiotics antibiotic use for uncomplicated RTIs remains widespread. decreases, while the risk of harm, through side effects, Around 50% of general practice consultations for RTIs result superinfections, and resistance, increases [20-22]. Importantly, in an antibiotic prescription, with large variations across resistance tends to emerge not at the site of infection, but among practices (from 20% to 80%) . In Spain, more than half of colonizing flora elsewhere in the body . Over the last years, patients
