JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al
KEYWORDS: patients, antibiotic, study, day, patient, data, antibiotics, clinical, days, symptoms, trial, care, treatment, number, duration


the site of infection, but among practices (from 20% to 80%) . In Spain, more than half of colonizing flora elsewhere in the body . Over the last years, patients presenting with acute rhinosinusitis, acute bronchitis, there have been an increasing number of independent bodies, or sore throat in primary care are treated with antibiotics . scientific academies, and institutions abandoning this dogma This is concerning, as most uncomplicated RTIs in otherwise on completing antibiotic courses . healthy adults are viral and self-limiting, and antibiotics offer A promising strategy to reduce unnecessary antibiotic exposure no relevant benefit. involves tailoring treatment duration based on individual Despite numerous initiatives to curb unnecessary antibiotic use, response. Conventional stewardship programs often fail to the impact has been modest at best. While some local successes address overtreatment in patients who genuinely need have been documented, most antimicrobial stewardship antibiotics. Encouraging shorter, evidence-based durations may strategies have shown only minimal reductions in antibiotic be a more practical and acceptable alternative, as shown in prescribing . For instance, a recent systematic review found qualitative research . The optimal antibiotic duration likely that such programs reduce outpatient antibiotic use by just 4% varies by individual. Factors such as age, comorbidities, immune on average . As a result, general practitioners (GPs), who are status, bacterial load, and organ function influence how patients potentially the most influential professionals in tackling the metabolize and respond to treatment . A one-size-fits-all issue of AMR, continue to show a consistently high rate of approach risks under- or overtreatment. For instance, in a inappropriate and unnecessary antibiotic prescriptions. landmark study, 3-day treatment was as effective as 8 days in 78.5% of patients hospitalized with mild to moderate pneumonia Traditionally, antibiotics have been prescribed for fixed who had improved by day 3 . It would not be unreasonable durations—typically 7 to 10 days—regardless of individual to think that the percentage of patients with pneumonia who patient response. However, accumulating evidence suggests feel better after 3 days of therapy would be even higher in that shorter courses are equally effective for many bacterial primary care. RTIs and result in fewer adverse events. The concept that “shorter is better” emerged over a decade ago and has since When a nonbacterial or self-limiting infection is suspected, the been supported by multiple clinical trials . Except for priority should be to avoid initiating antibiotics. For patients conditions like tuberculosis
