JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al
KEYWORDS: patients, antibiotic, study, day, patient, data, antibiotics, clinical, days, symptoms, trial, care, treatment, number, duration


When a nonbacterial or self-limiting infection is suspected, the been supported by multiple clinical trials . Except for priority should be to avoid initiating antibiotics. For patients conditions like tuberculosis and specific upper respiratory already on fixed-duration antibiotic courses, clinicians should infections (eg, otitis media and streptococcal pharyngitis), consider advising discontinuation once symptoms are resolved, shorter antibiotic courses have shown equivalent efficacy. For unless the infection is deemed potentially serious . In such treatment in patients with community-acquired pneumonia who tools like C-reactive protein (CRP) testing may be warranted improve substantially by day 3 . Similar findings have been before stopping treatment. Interestingly, one-third of patients replicated in acute chronic obstructive pulmonary disease already stop antibiotics on their own once they feel better. (COPD) exacerbations and suspected bacterial rhinosinusitis Studies using electronic monitoring show poor adherence to JMIR Res Protoc 2025 | vol. 14 | e75453 | p. 2 XSL FO (page number not for citation purposes) • RenderX JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al prescribed durations in real-world settings . This emphasizes 6. Determine the number of reattendances to any doctor the need to align prescribing practices with patient behavior regarding the infection within the first 4 weeks in the 2 and current evidence. groups. 7. Determine the number of complications related to the Reducing antibiotic use in primary care remains challenging, infection within the first 4 weeks, such as visits to particularly when faced with diagnostic uncertainty or patient expectations. Yet it appears more feasible to convince physicians groups. to shorten therapy durations than to withhold antibiotics entirely, 8. Determine the number of adverse events in the 2 groups. provided there is clear, high-quality evidence supporting this 9. Estimate the incremental cost per patient achieving clinical approach . Emerging data from randomized trials suggest resolution (within-trial cost-effectiveness analysis) and the that most patients recover within 3 days, making shorter courses incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year (long-term not only safe but preferable. Current stewardship strategies have cost-effectiveness analysis) in the 2 groups. only a limited impact, and a shift toward personalized treatment 10. Determine the number of days of work absenteeism due to the infectious disease in the 2 groups. characteristics, offers a promising path forward . Ultimately, 11. Determine the improvement in health-related quality of life we must transition from a disease-focused model to a in the 2 groups. patient-centered approach: we are not treating RTIs, we
