JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al
KEYWORDS: patients, antibiotic, study, day, patient, data, antibiotics, clinical, days, symptoms, trial, care, treatment, number, duration


11. Determine the improvement in health-related quality of life we must transition from a disease-focused model to a in the 2 groups. patient-centered approach: we are not treating RTIs, we are 12. Assess the percentage of patients assigned to the treating patients with RTIs. To support this shift, we propose a intervention group who feel better and who comply with pragmatic randomized clinical trial aimed at evaluating the the criteria for stopping the antibiotic therapy in the 2 effectiveness of individualized antibiotic duration in primary groups. care. Such research could set a new standard for antimicrobial prescribing, reducing unnecessary exposure, preserving We hypothesize that patients with ages ranging from 18 to 75 antibiotic efficacy, and promoting truly evidence-based care. years who are allocated to the intervention group and are asked to discontinue antibiotic therapy as soon as they feel better and pressure >90 mm Hg, axillary temperature <37 °C, respiratory Study Design rate <20 breaths/minute, and oxygen saturation >92%) and CRP trial with a two-group parallel design. The unit of randomization efficacy at day 14 and will not present a higher reconsultation is the patient, and the allocation ratio between the control and rate compared with those allocated to the control group. We intervention groups is 1:1. This protocol follows the SPIRIT expect a lower number of drug-associated adverse events in the (Standard Protocol Items: Recommendations for Interventional intervention group. Trials) 2013 statement . Eligibility Criteria Objectives We will prospectively and consecutively recruit adult patients The primary aim of the STORM trial is to assess whether the aged 18 to 75 years who present either with acute cough as the clinical resolution on day 14 for adults presenting with predominant symptom—considered by the GP to be a bacterial general practice is noninferior in the intervention group Microbiology and Infectious Diseases —or with clinically (stopping the antibiotic course as soon as patients feel better suspected acute bacterial rhinosinusitis, as defined by the and clinical assessment is within the normal range) compared American Academy of Otolaryngology–Head and Neck Surgery with the control group (patients completing standard antibiotic Foundation , in cases where the GP considers a standard courses). β-lactam course to be necessary. Patients who meet criteria for Secondary objectives of this trial are as follows: 1. Evaluate the antibiotic prescribed at the index visit and the be excluded from the study. A detailed summary of all inclusion planned and actual duration
