JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al
KEYWORDS: patients, antibiotic, study, day, patient, data, antibiotics, clinical, days, symptoms, trial, care, treatment, number, duration


trial are as follows: 1. Evaluate the antibiotic prescribed at the index visit and the be excluded from the study. A detailed summary of all inclusion planned and actual duration in the 2 groups. and exclusion criteria is provided in Textbox 1. All patients 2. Evaluate the adherence to the prescribed antibiotic in the who agree to participate will provide a signed informed consent 2 groups. and will be informed about the nature of this study. The 4. Evaluate the duration of symptoms in the 2 groups: (1) will be later randomized. Patients in the intervention group will duration of severe symptoms, (2) duration of moderate be asked to return to the center as soon as they feel better and 5. Evaluate the use of antibiotics other than the study and CRP measurement. medication and other symptomatic therapies within the first 4 weeks in the 2 groups. JMIR Res Protoc 2025 | vol. 14 | e75453 | p. 3 XSL FO (page number not for citation purposes) • RenderX JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al Textbox 1. Eligibility criteria. Inclusion criteria (all the criteria must be met): • Age ranging from 18 to 75 years. • Either acute lower respiratory tract infection (RTI) or bacterial rhinosinusitis. • Acute lower RTI: acute cough (new or worsening of a previous cough present for 21 days or less) as the predominant symptom, accompanied by at least one other lower respiratory tract symptom—such as sputum production, dyspnea, wheezing, and chest discomfort/pain—with no alternative explanation. It is presumed to have a bacterial cause, such as community-acquired pneumonia, acute bronchitis, or acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), according to the clinician’s judgment. • Acute bacterial rhinosinusitis: presence of purulent nasal discharge or facial pain/pressure lasting less than 4 weeks, which the clinician suspects to be bacterial due to lack of improvement within 10 days, severe symptoms from day 3, or worsening after day 5. • General practitioners deem β-lactam therapy for at least 7 days is necessary. Exclusion criteria (any of the following exclusion criteria): • RTIs different from a lower RTI or acute rhinosinusitis. • The doctor decides not to give an antibiotic for this RTI. • Patients with suspected septicemia (quick sequential organ failure assessment: respiratory rate ≥22 breaths/minute, systolic blood pressure <100 mm Hg, or altered mental status with a Glasgow score < 5) ≥2. • Patients with pneumonia and a
