JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al
KEYWORDS: patients, antibiotic, study, day, patient, data, antibiotics, clinical, days, symptoms, trial, care, treatment, number, duration


organ failure assessment: respiratory rate ≥22 breaths/minute, systolic blood pressure <100 mm Hg, or altered mental status with a Glasgow score < 5) ≥2. • Patients with pneumonia and a CRB-65 (confusion, respiratory rate ≥30 breaths/minute, blood pressure < 90/60 mm Hg, or age >65 years) ≥1. • Patients with very severe COPD (forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV ]<30%). • Patients with COPD who have taken 4 or more antibiotic courses in the previous year, the presence of significant bronchiectasis, and isolation of Pseudomonas in a previous sputum culture. • Patients with reported allergy to β-lactams. • Patients who have taken antibiotics in the previous 2 weeks. • A working diagnosis of a noninfective disorder, such as heart failure, pulmonary embolus, or esophageal reflux. • Immunocompromised patients, such as those with HIV infection, patients taking immunosuppressive treatment, antineoplastic therapy, or systemic corticosteroids. • Currently participating in another clinical trial. • Previously participated in the STORM study. • Active neoplasia. • Terminal illness. • Institutionalized patient. • Inability/unable to understand or take part in the clinical trial. GPs will be informed about managing acute RTIs with β-lactam pragmatic, aiming to mirror the real-life practices of doctors in therapy, following the specific RTIs outlined in this study and Spain. According to a recent study conducted in Barcelona in the latest Spanish primary care guidelines (Table 1). 2023, approximately 80% of all prescriptions for amoxicillin The guidelines recommend the use of 7-day antibiotic durations. and amoxicillin-clavulanate in primary care corresponded to Doctors participating in this study will be provided with a box sizes of 30 pills, representing a 10-day duration, while the for when to treat. However, the final decision on antibiotic trial is pragmatic, we will consider a minimal duration of 7 days. prescriptions will be at the discretion of the GP. The trial is JMIR Res Protoc 2025 | vol. 14 | e75453 | p. 4 XSL FO (page number not for citation purposes) • RenderX JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al Table 1. Guidelines for prescribing antibiotics for respiratory tract infections in primary care in non-β-lactam-allergic patients in Spain, based on the updated recommendation (to be performed by the general practitioner). Diagnosis When is it appropriate to prescribe antibiotics? First choice antibiotic not improve within 10 days, severe symptoms from day 3, or penicillin V 1000 mg/8 h/7 d worsening of symptoms from day 5 Lower respiratory tract
