JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al
KEYWORDS: patients, antibiotic, study, day, patient, data, antibiotics, clinical, days, symptoms, trial, care, treatment, number, duration


antibiotics? First choice antibiotic not improve within 10 days, severe symptoms from day 3, or penicillin V 1000 mg/8 h/7 d worsening of symptoms from day 5 Lower respiratory tract infec- In acute bronchitis, antibiotics should not be given, except in Amoxicillin 1000 mg/8 h/7 d or penicillin V 1.000 tion (non-COPDb)c specific situations. Always treat in pneumonia mg/8 h/7 d. Amoxicillin and clavulanate 875-125 mg/8 h/7 d if age >65 years COPD exacerbationd Only if there is sputum purulence and in all very severe or very Amoxicillin and clavulanate 875-125 mg/8 h/7 d severe COPD exacerbations impaired consciousness, suspicion of orbital infection, or diplopia. bCOPD: chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. rate ≥30 breaths/min, systolic blood pressure <90 mm Hg or diastolic blood pressure <60 mm Hg, age >65 years. dImpaired consciousness, cyanosis, respiratory rate ≥30 breaths/min, severe dyspnea, oxygen therapy, inability to stay at home, or oxygen saturation <92%. Patients with COPD with forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV ) <30% are excluded from this study. Eligible participants will be informed about the STORM trial Patients in the intervention group will be treated accordingly, and provided with an information leaflet and a consent form following the same recommendations as patients assigned to from the GP. The GP will ensure that the patient understands the control group, but they will be asked to return as soon as the purpose of the project, potential benefits, risks, and they feel better and are afebrile. procedures involved. The GP will emphasize that participation When deciding whether to discontinue the antibiotic course is voluntary and that the patient can decline to participate or after a patient feels better during a consultation, the participating withdraw from the project at any time without consequences. professionals must assess three key areas: The patient is informed that consent to participate will give the primary investigator, sponsor, and controlling authorities access 1. Overall improvement in the patient’s symptoms. to obtain information in the patient’s medical records, including 2. Evaluate the vital signs, confirming that most of them are eligibility criteria stated above and invite patients to participate mm Hg, pulse <100 beats/min, respiratory rate <20 if they fulfill all the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion breaths/min, and oxygen saturation >92%. criteria. Patients who agree to participate will be asked to 3. Assess the CRP value and interpret the results according provide written consent, which will be obtained
