JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al
KEYWORDS: patients, antibiotic, study, day, patient, data, antibiotics, clinical, days, symptoms, trial, care, treatment, number, duration


oxygen saturation >92%. criteria. Patients who agree to participate will be asked to 3. Assess the CRP value and interpret the results according provide written consent, which will be obtained by the GP. to the provided table based on current recommendations Informed consent will be obtained prior to the collection of . participant data. Participants will be informed about the storage Patients who meet all these criteria will be asked to discontinue and use of their data. treatment. Otherwise, patients will be instructed to continue the Interventions course for 2 more days and, if they continue feeling better, to return for reassessment. In case of worsening symptoms, they Patients assigned to usual care will be given a full course of the will be advised to contact their doctor for clinical assessment. first-line antibiotic course as recommended by the updated local The doctor will then decide whether to recommend completing guidelines : amoxicillin 750 mg 3 times daily (t.i.d.) for the full antibiotic course, changing the therapy, or making a 7 days for acute rhinosinusitis, 1000 mg t.i.d. for 7 days for referral. suspected pneumonia (with clavulanate if the patient is older than 65 years), and amoxicillin/clavulanate 875 mg/125 mg CRP Point-of-Care Testing Training Program t.i.d. for 7 days for suspected acute exacerbations of COPD An on-the-spot one-hour training workshop in the different (Table 1). Nonetheless, this guideline is designed to serve as a centers will take place before the inception of the study, with reference for making informed and improved choices in explanation of the clinical guidelines and how to perform CRP prescribing. The decision to prescribe an antibiotic is solely at rapid testing. Participating professionals will be informed about the discretion of the participating doctor. The trial is pragmatic, the updated recommendations on how to interpret the CRP thus mirroring the real-life practices of doctors in Spain. Doctors values and the evidence-based management, and this may also prescribe antibiotics for longer regimens, such as interpretation will depend on the day the patient feels better 10-day durations, as shown in recent studies . The decision [37-39] (Table 2). The tests will be carried out with Affinion 2 to prescribe an antibiotic will always be made before CRP test (Abbott Diagnostics, United States). Professionals randomizing the patient. will practice using the device during a run-in period, 2 weeks before the study starts. JMIR Res Protoc 2025 | vol. 14 | e75453
