JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al
KEYWORDS: patients, antibiotic, study, day, patient, data, antibiotics, clinical, days, symptoms, trial, care, treatment, number, duration


United States). Professionals randomizing the patient. will practice using the device during a run-in period, 2 weeks before the study starts. JMIR Res Protoc 2025 | vol. 14 | e75453 | p. 5 XSL FO (page number not for citation purposes) • RenderX JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al Table 2. C-reactive protein (CRP) rapid testing value interpretation [37-39]. CRP value Observations Decision to stop the antibiotic course <40 mg/L Self-limiting infection, significant improvement, or cure • It is safe to stop the course of antibiotics. 40-100 mg/L Consider other risk factors, age, signs, comorbidity, and • It is safe to stop the course of antibiotics if the patient returns on symptoms of the infection or before day 4. • In general, it is safe to stop antibiotics on day 5 or later, unless the patient has significant comorbidities or is of advanced age. • Do not stop the course in patients with COPDa. >100 mg/L Reassess the patient. The doctor should reexamine the • Do not stop the course of antibiotics. patient with RTIb aCOPD: chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. bRTI: Respiratory tract infection. day 14 via a phone call and will always be conducted by a doctor Criteria for Discontinuing or Modifying Allocated from the team of physicians participating in the study. Interventions Secondary Efficacy Endpoints Due to the short intervention period after index consultation, the allocated intervention may only be discontinued for a given Outcomes Collected From the RTI Symptom Diaries trial participant by the GP due to an unexpected event, hindering Participants will use a validated self-reported RTI symptom the GP from conducting or completing the allocated intervention, diary, used in previous studies by the research team . Each for example, acute worsening of the participant’s condition symptom will be graded on a 7-point Likert scale (0=not during index consultation, after consent has been given and affected; 1=very little problem; 2=slight problem; 3=moderately allocation has been revealed. Moreover, the study may be bad; 4=bad; 5=very bad; 6=as bad as it could be). Symptoms discontinued for a given trial participant upon participant request recorded include cough, phlegm, shortness of breath, wheeze, or by withdrawal of informed consent. The data collected before blocked/runny nose, facial pain, chest pain, sensation of fever the discontinuation or withdrawal of consent will be retained (high temperature), muscle aching, headache, disturbed sleep, and used in the analyses; however, no further data will be feeling
