JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al
KEYWORDS: patients, antibiotic, study, day, patient, data, antibiotics, clinical, days, symptoms, trial, care, treatment, number, duration


of fever the discontinuation or withdrawal of consent will be retained (high temperature), muscle aching, headache, disturbed sleep, and used in the analyses; however, no further data will be feeling generally unwell, and interference with normal obtained from the participant. activities/work. Participants will rate symptoms for 14 days and Strategies to Improve Adherence to Interventions return the diary upon completion (electronically or paper-based). It will document daily antibiotic doses and other therapies. For Monthly meetings with the coordinators of the different centers will be carried out during the performance of the randomized how many days antibiotics were actually taken, whether clinical trial. Each center will have a centralized mobile phone antibiotics have been taken after being discontinued by their for the study, through which patients will contact when they doctors, and details of the duration and severity of symptoms feel well to be directly scheduled at the center as soon as will be completed by a telephone call to the patient at day 14. possible to assess the discontinuation of the antibiotic. 1. Duration of antibiotic therapy, in days, defined as the Relevant Concomitant Care Permitted or Prohibited number of days until discontinuing treatment in both groups During the Trial (mean/median) Treatments taken on a chronic basis will be permitted, such as 2. Use of antibiotics other than the study medication and other inhaled corticosteroids, beta-agonists, anticholinergics, symptomatic therapies within the first 2 weeks symptomatic treatments, and medications for other concomitant (mean/median) between the 2 groups. Patients taking immunosuppressive 7, defined as the total symptom score reported by the patient treatment, antineoplastic therapy, systemic corticosteroids, or on that day (mean/median) antibiotics in the previous 2 weeks will be excluded. 4. Duration of severe symptoms, in days, defined as the number of days until the last day the patient scores 5 in any Outcomes of the symptoms (mean/median) Primary Efficacy Endpoint 5. Duration of moderate symptoms, in days, defined as the number of days until the last day the patient scores 3 in any The primary outcome is the percentage of patients achieving of the symptoms (mean/median) 6. Total resolution of symptoms, in days, defined as the either the disappearance or improvement in overall condition, number of days until the last day the patient scores 0 in all such that no additional antimicrobial treatment is necessary. the symptoms (mean/median) Any other clinical outcome that does not meet the definition is 7.
