JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al
KEYWORDS: patients, antibiotic, study, day, patient, data, antibiotics, clinical, days, symptoms, trial, care, treatment, number, duration


day the patient scores 0 in all such that no additional antimicrobial treatment is necessary. the symptoms (mean/median) Any other clinical outcome that does not meet the definition is 7. The duration of antibiotic therapy, in days, defined as the considered treatment failure. The evaluation will take place on number of patients discontinuing treatment in both groups, JMIR Res Protoc 2025 | vol. 14 | e75453 | p. 6 XSL FO (page number not for citation purposes) • RenderX JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al and day they discontinue will also be checked via electronic 6. Drug-associated adverse events related to the antibiotic, medical records defined as any harmful and unintended health incident—such as a symptom, an abnormal laboratory Outcomes 1 to 7 from the RTI symptom diary will be calculated finding, or worsening of a pre-existing for each participant every day from day 0 until day 14 or when condition—temporally associated with the use of the the participant has scored 0 for every item, whichever comes antibiotic, regardless of whether it is causally related to the first. treatment, and antibiotics changed within the first 14 days. Outcomes Collected From Electronic Case Report Forms, Other Outcomes When Available, and From Follow-Up Phone Calls, Which Will Be Cross-Checked With the Patients’Electronic Percentage of patients assigned to the intervention group who Clinical Records feel better and who comply with the criteria for stopping the antibiotic therapy, based on the information collected during 1. Type of antibiotic prescribed and the planned duration. the visit to the center 2. Number of reattendances to any doctor for new or worsening symptoms regarding the infection, within 28 Participant Timeline days after the index consultation. A flow chart of patients is described in Figure 1. To ensure a 3. Number of complications related to the infection within 28 standardized and uniform inclusion process, the principal days after the index consultation, such as visits to investigator and a senior project manager will inform all emergency departments or hospital admissions regarding participating health care professionals on the inclusion the RTI. procedures for the study. Eligible participants will be identified 4. Number of days of work absenteeism due to the infectious as they present to general practice. Once the GP identifies the disease, within 28 days after the index consultation. patient as eligible for the study and a first-line antibiotic with 5. Difference in health-related quality of life on days
