JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al
KEYWORDS: patients, antibiotic, study, day, patient, data, antibiotics, clinical, days, symptoms, trial, care, treatment, number, duration


identifies the disease, within 28 days after the index consultation. patient as eligible for the study and a first-line antibiotic with 5. Difference in health-related quality of life on days 14 and a -lactam is warranted, all the information about the study will 28, compared with baseline, measured using the 5-level be provided, and informed consent will be signed. Details of EQ-5D version-quality of Life instrument (ie, EQ-5D-5L) the ascertainment of visits are provided in Table 3. . JMIR Res Protoc 2025 | vol. 14 | e75453 | p. 7 XSL FO (page number not for citation purposes) • RenderX JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al Figure 1. Study flowchart of the clinical trial. COPD: chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; CRP: C-reactive protein; RTI: respiratory tract infection; SOFA: sequential organ failure assessment. JMIR Res Protoc 2025 | vol. 14 | e75453 | p. 8 XSL FO (page number not for citation purposes) • RenderX JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al Table 3. Ascertainment of visits for the clinical trial. V1a V2a V3a V4a V5a V6a Face-to-face visit Phone call Day 0 (baseline visit) From day 1b(interv) Day 3 (±1 day) Day 7 Day 14 Day 28 Medical history ✓ ✓ Standard physical examina- ✓ ✓ tion Eligibility criteria ✓ Informed consent ✓ Prescription of the antibiotic ✓ Randomization ✓ EQ-5D-5L questionnaire ✓ ✓ ✓ Hand-out of the symptom ✓ diary CRPcrapid testing ✓ Decision to stop antibiotic ✓ course Collection of the symptom ✓ ✓ diary Assessment of the clinical ✓ ✓ ✓ efficacy Assessment of the drug ad- ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ herence Monitoring of adverse ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ events Complications, re-atten- ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ dance aVisits 1-6. bAs soon as the patient feels better, only for patients in the intervention group. cCRP: C-reactive protein. Patient data will be collected at 4 specific time points for patients intervention, they will be asked to return to the center for assigned to the control group and 5 for those allocated to the clinical reassessment and CRP rapid testing by the intervention: professional. Each center will organize ways to make it easy for patients to reach out and schedule an appointment • Day 0 (inclusion date at the center): Patients meeting the as soon as they feel better (eg, phone number and web-based inclusion criteria will be invited to join the study by their page). To decide whether to discontinue the
