JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al
KEYWORDS: patients, antibiotic, study, day, patient, data, antibiotics, clinical, days, symptoms, trial, care, treatment, number, duration


the as soon as they feel better (eg, phone number and web-based inclusion criteria will be invited to join the study by their page). To decide whether to discontinue the antibiotic GP. After obtaining informed consent, patients will be course when the patient reports feeling better during the randomized into either the control group (receiving a full consultation, three types of assessment are needed: (1) course of β-lactam therapy for at least 7 days) or the overall improvement in the patient’s symptoms; (2) signal intervention group (instructed to return for assessment upon signs are in normal range (temperature <37 °C; blood feeling better and being afebrile). The GPs will complete pressure >90/60 mm Hg; pulse < 100 beats/minute; a case report form on day 0 (inclusion day), recording respiratory rate <20 breaths/minute, and oxygen saturation details such as age, inclusion and exclusion criteria, >92%), and (3) CRP value is lower than the prespecified symptoms, date of symptom onset, comorbidities, values depending on the day of the visit. All this information concomitant medication, quality-of-life questionnaire will be recorded in the electronic case report form (e-CRF; (EQ-5D-5L instrument), randomization, assigned group, Table 1) and details of the antibiotic administered. Patients will also • Day 3±1 (phone call, only for patients assigned to the be provided with a symptom diary (web-based or intervention group): A reminder phone call for all patients paper-based) assigned to the intervention group will be made on this day. • From day 1 until the last day of the antibiotic regimen They will be asked how they feel and reminded to reach duration (at the center, only for patients assigned to the out to the center as soon as they feel better for a intervention group): For patients assigned to the discontinuation assessment JMIR Res Protoc 2025 | vol. 14 | e75453 | p. 9 XSL FO (page number not for citation purposes) • RenderX JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al • Day 7 (phone call): An early clinical efficacy outcome will Concealment Mechanism progression of signs and symptoms, treatment adherence, randomization will be based on investigator-blinded blocks of adverse reactions, any complications, reattendance visits, randomly varying size to protect against the potential changes to the assigned treatment or concomitant predictability of treatment assignments. Blocks will be small medication, and the use of antibiotics other than the study to decrease the potential for mid-block inequality. drug • Day 14
