JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al
KEYWORDS: patients, antibiotic, study, day, patient, data, antibiotics, clinical, days, symptoms, trial, care, treatment, number, duration


concomitant predictability of treatment assignments. Blocks will be small medication, and the use of antibiotics other than the study to decrease the potential for mid-block inequality. drug • Day 14 (phone call): The main clinical efficacy outcome Implementation progression of signs and symptoms, compliance with the independent researcher who is available to generate more study treatment, EQ-5D-5L instrument, adverse reactions, allocation sequences. any complications, reattendance visits, changes in the Assignment of Interventions: Blinding assigned treatment or concomitant medication, including the use of antibiotics other than the study medication, will Owing to the type of intervention, participants and GPs are not be assessed. Patients will be asked to return their diaries blinded to group allocation. It is also difficult for the principal • Day 28 (phone call): Patients will be contacted for investigator and members of the research team involved in information on the number of reconsultations, obtaining and analyzing the data (outcome assessors and data complications, and the quality-of-life (EQ-5D-5L) analysts) to be blinded to group allocation, as patients allocated instrument to the intervention group have more visits scheduled. Sample Size Data Collection and Management We assumed 85% clinical recovery in the group assigned to the Plans for Assessment and Collection of Outcomes full antibiotic course based on some studies [12,42-44]. All the data is collected via e-CRFs and surveys through Considering a power of 80%, a level of significance of 5%, Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap; Vanderbilt one-sided noninferiority margin of 10%, as recommended by the guideline on the evaluation of medicinal products indicated platform for building and managing web-based databases and for treatment of bacterial infections issued by the European surveys . Medicines Agency in 2022 , which gave a sample size of 402 patients. Assuming that the primary outcome could not be Collection of Baseline Characteristics of GPs evaluated in 15% of patients, 474 patients needed to be included The baseline characteristics of the participating GPs are in the study (237 in the control group and 237 in the intervention collected through email correspondence and registered in group). REDCap by the principal investigator. The following Recruitment information will be obtained: age, sex, region of Spain, type of A total of 474 eligible patients will be enrolled by doctors in 25 primary care centers throughout Spain. Centers with a comfort with stopping antibiotic courses, and baseline antibiotic minimum of 3 health care professionals willing to participate prescribing. in
