JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al
KEYWORDS: patients, antibiotic, study, day, patient, data, antibiotics, clinical, days, symptoms, trial, care, treatment, number, duration


doctors in 25 primary care centers throughout Spain. Centers with a comfort with stopping antibiotic courses, and baseline antibiotic minimum of 3 health care professionals willing to participate prescribing. in the trial will be invited to join the study. The study is planned to run from October 2025 to April 2027, including 2 winter Collection of the Participant Data periods (last patient recruited in March 2027). A tight follow-up We will collect health and personal data from the patients on the process and different strategies will be implemented, and included in the study via REDCap, where the researchers will if needed (1) other professionals in the existing centers will be register basal data and evolution of the illness, and via a patient invited to participate in the study; (2) we can extend the diary completed by the patients themselves. Regarding the recruitment period by an additional 2 months, until May 2027 patient’s diary, we will also create a web-based symptoms diary (last follow-up in June 2027); or (3) other sites will be opened to make it available for all patients recruited. All patients will to increase the candidates to enter the study. Monthly meetings be able to choose between the web-based and paper version of will be held with the coordinators at the different centers to the symptom diary. Patients will be informed about the type of maintain recruitment and enrollment activity during the inclusion data that will be collected and about their rights when being period. informed about the study, and will sign a consent form Assignment of Interventions: Allocation consenting to the use of their data. No data will be collected before the patient signs the consent form. As soon as the patient Sequence Generation has signed the consent form, they will be given a study code Patients fulfilling the inclusion criteria will be asked to and will be identified by the study code in all the study materials. participate in the trial. All patients who agree to participate and The relationship between his identity and the study code will provide signed informed consent will receive an increasing be kept in the health care center and will only be available to sequential patient number and be randomly assigned to one of those who need it to fulfill their duties. Data collected in this the 2 treatment groups in a 1:1 ratio stratified per main pragmatic study is considered
