JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al
KEYWORDS: patients, antibiotic, study, day, patient, data, antibiotics, clinical, days, symptoms, trial, care, treatment, number, duration


to one of those who need it to fulfill their duties. Data collected in this the 2 treatment groups in a 1:1 ratio stratified per main pragmatic study is considered codified data. IDIAPJGol has diagnosis, one for acute rhinosinusitis and another one for lower license to use REDCap and the data is collected and held in RTI. IDIAPJGol servers, which comply with the European and JMIR Res Protoc 2025 | vol. 14 | e75453 | p. 10 XSL FO (page number not for citation purposes) • RenderX JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al national requirements. Data controller will be the institution Cost-Effectiveness Analyses (IDIAPJGol) for the study-related data and the health care We will estimate the cost-effectiveness of tailoring antibiotic institution for the health data collected to manage the patient in duration therapy for the “within-trial” period (28 days) and over clinical practice. There will not be any transfer of data. Only the expected lifetime of patients (lifetime/long-run model). the investigator team will have access to study datasets, and always with codified information to preserve the confidentiality In the within-trial analysis, cost-effectiveness will be measured of the participants involved. All the recruiting investigators will by the incremental cost per patient achieving clinical resolution. have access to REDCap platform to collect the data, each of In this analysis, effectiveness will be calculated using the them with their own specific credentials, and they will only primary endpoint of the study. Costs considered will include have access to the patients recruited in their own setting. We antibiotic prescription costs according to the duration of will follow the FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and treatment, other drug costs, reconsultations in primary and Reusable) principles: all datasets and publications will be secondary care (including hospitalizations), and costs associated identifiable by using a “Digital Object Identifier (DOI)” and with adverse events. Data on health care resource use and we will share the data (as far as possible) in the Zenodo duration will be taken from the patients’ diaries, from the platform. We will publish the results in Open Access journals, collected information in the e-CRF, and at the follow-up phone and wherever possible, the data will be shared without delay calls at days 14 and 28, and from a review of patients’medical following the Creative Commons License with Attribution notes. Unit cost data will be taken primarily from national (CC-BY) or the “No Rights Reserved” (CC0). Data
