JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al
KEYWORDS: patients, antibiotic, study, day, patient, data, antibiotics, clinical, days, symptoms, trial, care, treatment, number, duration


from a review of patients’medical following the Creative Commons License with Attribution notes. Unit cost data will be taken primarily from national (CC-BY) or the “No Rights Reserved” (CC0). Data will be sources published by the Spanish Ministry of Health. The saved and shared using standardized formats (txt, csv, and pdf). incremental cost-effectiveness ratio will be calculated by dividing the estimated difference in costs by the estimated Ethical Considerations differences, in effects observed between the intervention and The protocol has been approved by the Spanish Agency of Drugs control groups. Nonparametric methods to calculate confidence and Health Products and Hospital de Sant Pau Independent intervals around the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio based Ethics Committee, Barcelona (reference number 25/233). We on bootstrapped estimates of the mean cost and effect differences will follow the legislation on data protection (EU 2016/679) will be used. and its national implementation (LOPD 3/2018 of 5 Dec on the The intervention under evaluation in this study is likely to have protection of personal data and guarantee of digital rights). an impact beyond the trial period. To capture these potential Plans to Promote Participant Retention and Complete effects, we will extrapolate the results to an extended time Follow-Up horizon, that is, considering the remaining life expectancy of the patients. In this analysis, we will complement data from the The loss of follow-up data obtained from medical records and trial with relevant data from the published literature to estimate shared medication records is expected to be minimal. Outcome the incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) data from medical records be collected for all participants, gained. Health-related quality of life data collected during the except those who are discontinued by the GP or who have trial using the EQ-5D-5L questionnaire at baseline, at 14 and withdrawn informed consent before day 28. We expect some 28 days will be used as inputs to estimate baseline QALY values participants to be lost to follow-up in the RTI symptom diary, for this patient group. A decision-analytical model synthesizing as we anticipate that some participants will fail to complete the all relevant information will be used to estimate the differences electronic diary or will fail to submit the paper version to the in lifetime QALYs and lifetime health care costs of a cohort of patients under the tailored duration strategy versus the standard be contacted by phone on day 14 to gather information on
