JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al
KEYWORDS: patients, antibiotic, study, day, patient, data, antibiotics, clinical, days, symptoms, trial, care, treatment, number, duration


QALYs and lifetime health care costs of a cohort of patients under the tailored duration strategy versus the standard be contacted by phone on day 14 to gather information on of care strategy. antibiotic use, adherence, and symptom duration details. Methods in Analysis to Handle Protocol Nonadherence Statistical Methods and Any Statistical Methods to Handle Missing Data Statistical methods for primary and secondary outcomes: The Analyses will be performed as intention to treat (pragmatic trial) characteristics of the study population will be described using and also per protocol. The primary analysis population will frequencies for categorical variables and mean and SD for comprise all participants, irrespective of follow-up. quantitative variables. To compare the clinical efficacy between the 2 strategies, we will analyze the difference in the proportion Data will be examined for missing values and outliers. Measures of recovered patients in each arm on day 14. Efficacy evaluation of central tendency and dispersion for continuous study will be primarily based on intention-to-treat analysis in such a parameters will be portrayed. Extreme or unexpected values way that any event in any patient will be included in the group will be examined individually for authenticity, and data to which the patient was randomized, and per protocol analysis discrepancies addressed where appropriate. will be used as a secondary analysis. For all analyses, the level Plans to Give Access to the Full Protocol, of significance will be P<.05. Participant-Level Data, and Statistical Code • Interim analyses: No interim analysis is planned. The full protocol, statistical code, and e-CRF templates designed • Methods for additional analyses (eg, subgroup analyses): for the study will be available upon request once the report has We will conduct subgroup analyses of the primary outcome been published. Participant-level data will not be available. of participants with lower RTIs, and for acute rhinosinusitis. JMIR Res Protoc 2025 | vol. 14 | e75453 | p. 11 XSL FO (page number not for citation purposes) • RenderX JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al the antibiotic course once the clinical signs of the patient have Results improved and the CRP level is low. Furthermore, a randomized clinical trial has never been conducted to assess the effectiveness Recruitment of patients will start in October 2025 and will be and safety of this crucial strategy in combating AMR and stopped in April 2027. The current protocol is version 3 of July drug-related adverse events. Primary health
