JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al
KEYWORDS: patients, antibiotic, study, day, patient, data, antibiotics, clinical, days, symptoms, trial, care, treatment, number, duration


and will be and safety of this crucial strategy in combating AMR and stopped in April 2027. The current protocol is version 3 of July drug-related adverse events. Primary health centers are the first 31, 2025. contact point for patients with RTI symptoms, which is why we Discussion will conduct the study in this setting. This will constitute the first clinical trial aimed at answering whether it is safe to shorten Principal Findings and tailor the antibiotic therapy duration to the needs of the patients. This study does not pursue the medicalization of The limited to moderate impact in reducing unnecessary tailoring the antibiotic course by requiring patients assigned to antibiotic use in primary care observed in antimicrobial the intervention group to return for a clinical reassessment and stewardship programs necessitates the exploration of new CRP testing; however, this is the first trial of its kind. We aim strategies aimed at reducing patients’exposure to unnecessary to determine the efficacy and safety of this strategy. If tailoring courses . This highlights the need for exploring new antibiotic courses for RTIs proves to be as effective and safe as strategies to minimize patients’ exposure to unnecessary completing the entire course, further studies will investigate the antibiotic courses. Convincing doctors, especially GPs, not to necessity of the reassessment visit. prescribe antibiotics when uncertain or under patient pressure is challenging. Despite the widespread practice, standard Limitations durations for common infections lack support from clinical This is a pragmatic clinical trial evaluating the efficacy of different antibiotic therapy durations for acute RTIs, and conducted mainly in the last 2 decades, show that ending therefore, masking techniques are not used. One limitation of antibiotic courses by day 2-3 for most RTIs is effective and this study is that a percentage of self-limiting viral infections safe, similar to early studies on short-term antibiotic courses will be included. While antibiotics are not the recommended for uncomplicated urinary tract infections carried out 20 years treatment, they are still frequently prescribed for most RTIs ago . We believe health care professionals should encourage worldwide . However, all participants will receive a summary patients to stop antibiotic treatment promptly after symptom of the updated current guidelines, which discourage the use of resolution unless a serious infection is suspected. In our clinical antibiotics for most patients with acute rhinosinusitis, trial, these potential serious infections are clearly excluded. uncomplicated acute bronchitis, and acute
