JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al
KEYWORDS: patients, antibiotic, study, day, patient, data, antibiotics, clinical, days, symptoms, trial, care, treatment, number, duration


resolution unless a serious infection is suspected. In our clinical antibiotics for most patients with acute rhinosinusitis, trial, these potential serious infections are clearly excluded. uncomplicated acute bronchitis, and acute COPD exacerbations Continuing antibiotics beyond symptom resolution does not without purulent sputum, leaving the decision to the clinician appear to prevent or reduce AMR. Conversely, reducing the in this pragmatic approach. Nevertheless, we believe that the duration of courses has been shown to curb the spread of AMR percentage of “viral self-limiting infections” included in this in pneumonia. It is essential to move away from strict, randomized clinical trial will be much lower than what is predetermined durations and adopt a patient-centered approach typically observed under normal conditions, as GPs will be by customizing antibiotic courses to meet each patient’s informed about the appropriate indications for therapy and will individual needs. The key challenge involves identifying when have this information available before deciding whether to exactly antibiotics can be safely stopped based on symptoms prescribe a β-lactam to the participant. to minimize the chances of relapse. We currently lack evidence on how pathogen burden is associated with symptoms Both the primary and some of the secondary objectives of the experienced by patients with RTIs. study are based on information provided by the patients themselves. Regarding the CRP rapid testing, we are aware that STORM’s main focus on primary care settings makes it directly high CRP levels can signal systemic inflammation in conditions applicable to the daily practice of GPs who frequently encounter like inflammatory disorders, not just infections. There is limited patients with uncomplicated RTIs. Infectious diseases represent research on how CRP changes day by day in RTIs. Although one-third of all GP consultations, with over half of these visits levels above 100 mg/L might reflect the natural progression, attributed to RTIs . This indicates that RTIs are among the we set conservative thresholds for this initial trial on shortening most prevalent conditions encountered by GPs in their clinical treatments as patients improve. Some centers are only open on practice. It acknowledges the challenges faced by health care weekdays, from Monday to Friday. In these cases, if a patient professionals, particularly GPs, in resisting patient pressure and feels better over the weekend, they will need to wait until the uncertainty when deciding whether to prescribe antibiotics. By following Monday to be assessed. To minimize this limitation, advocating for a patient-centered
