JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al
KEYWORDS: patients, antibiotic, study, day, patient, data, antibiotics, clinical, days, symptoms, trial, care, treatment, number, duration


the weekend, they will need to wait until the uncertainty when deciding whether to prescribe antibiotics. By following Monday to be assessed. To minimize this limitation, advocating for a patient-centered approach to antibiotic we will recruit only centers that remain open on Saturdays or, preferably, those that provide out-of-hours services. This care providers to tailor treatment regimens according to strategy aims to ensure timely follow-up and reduce delays in individual patient needs and clinical circumstances . clinical assessment. STORM draws upon recent clinical trials conducted over the past 2 decades, suggesting that the findings are based on The concept of “feeling better” is inherently subjective and can contemporary evidence and thus likely applicable to current vary significantly across individuals, types of infections, and symptom improvement, while for others it may imply complete To the best of our knowledge, there has not been any study in resolution of all symptoms. Certain symptoms, such as fever, primary care exploring the feasibility and efficacy of stopping JMIR Res Protoc 2025 | vol. 14 | e75453 | p. 12 XSL FO (page number not for citation purposes) • RenderX JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al the safe discontinuation of antibiotics, whereas symptoms like some challenges. One potential difficulty is recruiting enough cough may persist longer without significantly impairing daily patients with acute RTIs who are willing to participate. Despite functioning. Additionally, some patients with RTIs may prefer this moderate risk, the study is planned to run from October to stop antibiotics only after full symptom resolution, while 2025 to April 2027, covering 2 winter periods, with the last others may find the notion of symptom improvement too patient recruited by March 2027. To ensure recruitment success, ambiguous, leading to uncertainty about when to discontinue tight follow-up processes and various strategies will be treatment. To address this challenge, our study defines the implemented. These strategies may include inviting other appropriate time to stop antibiotic treatment based on a professionals from existing centers to participate, extending the symptom improvement as reported by the patient, normalization necessary, opening recruitment at additional sites to increase of key vital signs—particularly body temperature, and the the pool of candidates. In addition, to minimize inclusion bias, absence of elevated inflammatory markers, specifically CRP. consecutive recruitment of patients who meet the inclusion to provide real-world evidence on how patients interpret and encouraged . respond to the concept of “feeling better” in the
