JMIR RESEARCH PROTOCOLS Morros et al
KEYWORDS: patients, antibiotic, study, day, patient, data, antibiotics, clinical, days, symptoms, trial, care, treatment, number, duration


specifically CRP. consecutive recruitment of patients who meet the inclusion to provide real-world evidence on how patients interpret and encouraged . respond to the concept of “feeling better” in the context of Professionals will follow up with all patients assigned to the antibiotic use. Furthermore, to enhance our understanding, we intervention group on day 3 for assessment of the clinical will conduct a qualitative study with a subset of patients in the condition and as a reminder to reach out to the center as they intervention group to explore their perceptions and experiences feel better. Professionals will be trained on how to explain the related to symptom improvement and treatment decisions. study’s objectives and the importance of adhering to the study Insights from this qualitative component will help refine a more procedures. For patients who do not return their symptom practical and clinically applicable definition of when it is diaries, a short form will be completed via a phone call on day appropriate to discontinue antibiotic therapy, ultimately 14, asking about the number of days they took antibiotics, other supporting clinicians in providing more precise and consistent therapies, and details regarding the duration and severity of their advice. symptoms. Acknowledgments The authors would like to thank all the clinicians who will be participating in the study. This project was funded by the Instituto project was co-funded with European Union ERDF funds (European Regional Development Fund). The sponsor and funders do not have any authority over research activities. Data Availability The datasets generated or analyzed during this study are available from the corresponding author on reasonable request. Authors' Contributions All authors contributed to the study design. RMor and CL conceived the study. AM, AGS, MM, and CL obtained funding. AGS and CIJ are involved in the acquisition of data; RMor, AGS, RMon, and LVT are responsible for the analysis of data. RMon is responsible for the software used in the work. CL wrote the first draft of the protocol. All authors critically revised the protocol, made substantial contributions, and approved the final version of the protocol to be submitted for publication. The corresponding author has the final responsibility for the decision to submit for publication. Conflicts of Interest MM has received speaker fees from AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Chiesi, Cipla, Bial, GlaxoSmithKline, Menarini, Kamada, Takeda, Zambon, CSL Behring, Specialty Therapeutics, Janssen, Grifols, Zambon, Tabuk Pharmaceuticals, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals, Sanofi/Regeneron, and Novartis; consulting fees
