Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Final Addendum to NICE guideline CG61, Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Diagnosis and management of irritable bowel syndrome in primary care NICE guideline CG61.1 Methods, evidence and recommendations February 2015 Final version Developed by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence NNIICCEE gguuiiddeelliinnee CCGG6611..11 IIrrrriittaabbllee bboowweell ssyynnddrroommee iinn aadduullttss NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Clinical guidelines update Clinical guidelines update The NICE Clinical Guidelines Update Team update discrete parts of published clinical guidelines as requested by NICE’s Guidance Executive. Suitable topics for update are identified through the new surveillance programme (see surveillance programme interim guide). These guidelines are updated using a standing Committee of healthcare professionals, research methodologists and lay members from a range of disciplines and localities. For the duration of the update the core members of the Committee are joined by up to 5 additional members who have specific expertise in the topic being updated, hereafter referred to as ‘topic-specific members’. In this document where ‘the Committee’ is referred to, this means the entire Committee, both the core standing members and topic-specific members. Where ‘standing Committee members’ is referred to, this means the core standing members of the Committee only. Where ‘topic-specific members’ is referred to this means the recruited group of members with topic-specific expertise. All of the standing members and the topic-specific members are fully voting members of the Committee unless stated otherwise. Details of the Committee membership and the NICE team can be found in appendix A. The Committee members’ declarations of interest can be found in appendix B. NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Summary section 1 Summary section 1.1 Update information The NICE guideline on irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) in adults (NICE guideline CG61) was published in 2008. It was reviewed in 2011 and 2013 as part of NICE’s routine surveillance programme to decide whether it required updating. These surveillance reports identified new evidence relating to the following areas of the guidance:  The role of antidepressants in IBS management  The role of relaxation therapy in IBS management. A further two areas were identified where there was evidence suggesting that newer treatments for IBS that were not
