Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


IBS management  The role of relaxation therapy in IBS management. A further two areas were identified where there was evidence suggesting that newer treatments for IBS that were not in CG61 should be included in this update:  The use of linaclotide and lubiprostone in constipation predominant IBS (IBS-C) management  The use of the low FODMAP (fermentable oligosacchardies, disaccahrides, monosaccharides and polyols) diet in IBS management. Consultation with IBS topic-specific members of the update Committee during the development of the review protocol further identified that the use of some psychological interventions (computerised CBT and mindfulness therapy) in the management of IBS should also be updated. Therefore a review question in this area (5a and 5b) was added to the update review protocol (this encompasses the relaxation therapy question). pharmacological therapy) of IBS have been made in this addendum. These are marked as:  [new 2015] if the evidence has been reviewed and the recommendation has been added or updated  if the evidence has been reviewed but no change has been made to the recommendation action. This update replaces recommendations 1.2.1.8 and 1.2.2.5–1.2.2.7 in the original irritable bowel syndrome in adults guideline. 1.2 Strength of recommendations Some recommendations can be made with more certainty than others. The Committee makes a recommendation based on the trade-off between the benefits and harms of an intervention, taking into account the quality of the underpinning evidence. For some interventions, the Committee is confident that, given the information it has looked at, most patients would choose the intervention. The wording used in the recommendations in this guideline denotes the certainty with which the recommendation is made (the strength of the recommendation). For all recommendations, NICE expects that there is discussion with the patient about the risks and benefits of the interventions, and their values and preferences. This discussion aims to help them to reach a fully informed decision (see also ‘Patient-centred care’). 1.2.1 Interventions that must (or must not) be used We usually use ‘must’ or ‘must not’ only if there is a legal duty to apply the recommendation. Occasionally we use ‘must’ (or ‘must not’) if the consequences of not following the recommendation could be extremely serious or potentially life threatening. NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Summary section 1.2.2 Interventions that should (or should not) be used – a ‘strong’ recommendation We use ‘offer’ (and similar words such as
