Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Summary section 1.2.2 Interventions that should (or should not) be used – a ‘strong’ recommendation We use ‘offer’ (and similar words such as ‘refer’ or ‘advise’) when we are confident that, for confident that an intervention will not be of benefit for most patients. 1.2.3 Interventions that could be used We use ‘consider’ when we are confident that an intervention will do more good than harm for most patients, and be cost effective, but other options may be similarly cost effective. The choice of intervention, and whether or not to have the intervention at all, is more likely to depend on the patient’s values and preferences than for a strong recommendation, and so the healthcare professional should spend more time considering and discussing the options with the patient. NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Summary section 1.3 Recommendations Antidepressants 1. Consider tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) as second-line treatment for people with IBS if laxatives, loperamide or antispasmodics have not helped. Start treatment at a low dose (5–10 mg equivalent of amitriptyline), taken once at night, and review regularly. Increase the dose if needed, but not usually beyond 30 mg. 1 2. Consider selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) for people with IBS only if TCAs are ineffective. 1 3. Take into account the possible side effects when offering TCAs or SSRIs to people with IBS. Follow up people taking either of these drugs for the first time at low doses for the treatment of pain or discomfort in IBS after 4 weeks and then every 6–12 months. 1 Low FODMAP diet 4. If a person’s IBS symptoms persist while following general lifestyle and dietary advice, offer advice on further dietary management. Such advice should:  include single food avoidance and exclusion diets (for example, a low FODMAP [fermentable oligosaccharides, disaccharides, monosaccharides and polyols] diet)  only be given by a healthcare professional with expertise in dietary management. [new 2015] Linaclotide 5. Consider linaclotide for people with IBS only if:  optimal or maximum tolerated doses of previous laxatives from different classes have not helped and  they have had constipation for at least 12 months. Follow up people taking linaclotide after 3 months. [new 2015] Lubiprostone 6. No recommendation Psychological interventions (relaxation, computerised CBT and mindfulness therapy) 7. No recommendation 1 At the time of publication , TCAs and SSRIs did not have
