Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


[new 2015] Lubiprostone 6. No recommendation Psychological interventions (relaxation, computerised CBT and mindfulness therapy) 7. No recommendation 1 At the time of publication , TCAs and SSRIs did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Summary section 1.4 Patient-centred care Patients and healthcare professionals have rights and responsibilities as set out in the NHS Constitution for England – all NICE guidance is written to reflect these. Treatment and care should take into account individual needs and preferences. Patients should have the opportunity to make informed decisions about their care and treatment, in partnership with their healthcare professionals. Healthcare professionals should follow the Department of healthcare professional should follow the code of practice that accompanies the Mental Capacity Act and the supplementary code of practice on deprivation of liberty safeguards. NICE has produced guidance on the components of good patient experience in adult NHS services. All healthcare professionals should follow the recommendations in Patient experience in adult NHS services. 1.5 Methods Please see the interim process and methods guide for updates pilot programme 2013 and the guidelines manual 2012. NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Evidence review and recommendations 2 Evidence review and recommendations Introduction Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a chronic, relapsing and often life-long disorder. It is characterised by the presence of abdominal pain or discomfort, which may be associated with defaecation and/or accompanied by a change in bowel habit. Symptoms may include disordered defaecation (constipation or diarrhoea or both) and abdominal distension, usually referred to as bloating. Symptoms sometimes overlap with other gastrointestinal disorders such as non-ulcer dyspepsia or coeliac disease. Treatment options include diet, physical activity, stress management, psychotherapy interventions and medication. This update is an addendum to the NICE guideline on irritable bowel syndrome in adults. The recommendations contained within this guideline can be found in the NICE pathway. 2.1 Review question 1: Antidepressants 2.1.1 Review question Are low-dose tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) effective in the management of IBS (including which are more effective)? 2.1.2 Evidence review The aim of the review was
