Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


events Placebo SSRIs and TCAs Talley, 2008 N=51 Imipramine 50mg for Abdominal pain, global assessment 12 weeks of symptoms, quality of life, adverse events Citalopram 40mg for 12 weeks Studies not included in Ruepert et al., 2011(Cochrane Review), not included in CG61 Abdul-Baki, N=107 Imipramine 25mg for Global assessment of symptom 2009 12 weeks relief, quality of life, adverse events Placebo Ladabaum, N=54 Citalopram 20mg for Global assessment of symptom 2010 4 weeks relief, quality of life, adverse events Placebo 2.1.3 Health economic evidence An additional search was undertaken using the same search terms with an economic evaluations filter to identify studies assessing the cost-effectiveness or cost-utility of TCAs, MAOIs, SSRIs and SNRIs (see appendix D). The search retrieved 1,060 articles. The titles and abstracts were screened for possible inclusion, and 6 articles were selected for further examination of the full-text version. No economic evaluations were included for review. A review flowchart is provided in appendix E, and the excluded studies (with reasons for exclusion) are shown in appendix F. 2.1.4 Evidence statements 2.1.4.1 Abdominal pain There were 6 studies in total (301 participants) that reported the numbers of participants successfully treated for abdominal pain. Two TCA studies (104 participants) suggested there may be an improvement in abdominal pain, but there was very serious uncertainty around the effect estimate. Four SSRI studies studies (197 participants) suggested that there may be an improvement in abdominal pain, but there was very serious uncertainty around the effect estimate. [Very low quality]. There were 2 studies that reported abdominal pain scores. One TCA study showed clinically significant lower pain scores with TCA compared to placebo. One SSRI study (23 participants) found there were clinically significant lower pain scores in the SSRI group compared toplacebo groups. [Very low quality] 2.1.4.2 Global assessment of IBS symptoms There were 10 studies (579 participants) that reported on the numbers of participants successfully treated (responder) based on the global assessment of IBS symptoms. The 5 TCA studies (298 participants) suggested that TCAs may be more effective than placebo NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Evidence review and recommendations with regard to the number of participants successfully treated; but there was serious uncertainty around the effect estimate. The 5 SSRI studies (281 participants) suggested that SSRIs may be more effective than placebo in the number of people successfully treated; however there is very serious uncertainty around the effect
