Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


5 SSRI studies (281 participants) suggested that SSRIs may be more effective than placebo in the number of people successfully treated; however there is very serious uncertainty around the effect estimate. [Very low quality] 2.1.4.3 Symptom scores There were 2 studies (126 participants) that reported on the numbers of participants successfully treated (responder) based on symptom scores. One TCA study (72 participants) suggested that TCAs may be more clinically effective than placebo in improving symptom score, and 1 SSRI study (54 participants) suggested that SSRIs may be more clinically effective than placebo in improving symptom score. In both studies there is some uncertainty around the effect estimate. [Very low quality] There were 2 studies (122 participants) that reported symptom scores. One SSRI study (50 participants) suggested that SSRIs may be more clinically effective than placebo in improvement of symptom scores, though there is some uncertainty around the result. One TCA study (72 participants) reported no difference between TCA and placebo in improvement of symptom scores. [Very low quality] 2.1.4.4 Quality of life There were 4 studies (233 participants) that reported on quality of life.  Two studies used SF-36 (107 participants); 1 study on TCAs (56 participants) found a statistically higher percentage difference from baseline with the TCA compared to placebo. One TCA and SSRI study (51 participants) found no difference in SF-36 components between antidepressants and placebo.[Low and very low quality]  Two studies (126 participants) comparing SSRI to placebo reported outcomes using IBS quality of life scale. One study (45 participants) found no difference in mean IBS QoL with the SSRI compared with placebo; the other (81 participants) found no differences in 2 of 3 IBS QoL components between SSRI and placebo. [Very low quality] 2.1.5 Evidence to recommendations Committee discussions Relative value of The important outcomes were prioritised by the topic-specific members different outcomes (TSMs) through ranking methods and further confirmed by the standing Committee before the review was carried out. They thought quality of life to be of particular importance when considering the effectiveness of antidepressant treatment for IBS. Outcomes of symptom response overall and individual symptom response (e.g. bloating, diarrhoea) were also considered important, although the impact of these factors on an individual cannot be assumed. The topic-specific Committee members noted that the improvement in a particular symptom may be viewed differently by the individuals involved. For example, some may consider improvement in their bloating
