Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


assumed. The topic-specific Committee members noted that the improvement in a particular symptom may be viewed differently by the individuals involved. For example, some may consider improvement in their bloating symptoms to be the focal point when considering a treatment, while for others improvement in a different symptom, such as diarrhoea, would be most valuable. The Committee noted the limited reporting of adverse events in the included studies. Trade-off between The Committee agreed that the outcomes from the included studies should benefits and harms be presented by the class of the drugs involved, that is by TCA and SSRI class. The heterogeneity of the included studies and the differences between the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of TCAs and SSRIs was further discussed. The Committee concluded that the evidence would be most appropriately presented within their drug class rather than combining the results from all of the included studies together (as had been done previously in CG61). The Committee agreed that the results of the NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Evidence review and recommendations included studies overall showed that antidepressants have an effect to improve the symptoms of IBS. It was agreed that there was more uncertainty with the evidence on SSRIs than with TCAs. The lack of follow-up within the included studies was discussed by the Committee. It was agreed that the study length in most of the included studies was sufficient to detect a response in patients for the related outcomes. However, for consideration of any adverse effects and longer term symptom control of a fluctuating condition like IBS, further follow-up data would have been needed. The studies that had included adverse events had not reported these in detail. The Committee noted that there is limited new evidence in the use of antidepressants for those with IBS. It was further discussed that there was no additional evidence that provided any justification for changing the original recommendations on the use of antidepressants developed in CG61. The Committee noted that of the 12 included studies only 2 had reported on the previous IBS treatment that participants had received prior to the study. The Committee acknowledged that TCAs may cause constipation in some people, therefore clinicians should further consideration this treatment in people with IBS-C. The Committee agreed that the results of this evidence review were consistent with the results of the evidence reviewed previously in CG61 and with the
