Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


treatment in people with IBS-C. The Committee agreed that the results of this evidence review were consistent with the results of the evidence reviewed previously in CG61 and with the views of the topic-specific Committee members. Therefore, it was agreed that the existing recommendations for this review question from CG61 would be carried forward into this update. Finally, as IBS is a chronic condition, the Committee agreed that extra caution should be given if TCAs are to be prescribed for people with IBS and depression, due to the potential harm associated with increased suididal ideation on these drugs. The Committee stated that prescribers should also refer to NICE guideline on depression in adults with a chronic physical health problem and NICE guidance on depression in adults. Trade-off between The Committee determined that carrying forward the existing net health benefits recommendations for this review question would not change existing and resource use resource use. Quality of evidence The Committee reviewed the evidence identified and noted that there are areas of concern for the applicability of the included studies to the potential users of this guideline update. The majority of the included studies used participants from non-primary care settings. The Committee discussed that this may (but not necessarily) mean that these participants had more severe IBS symptoms than those in primary care. Nevertheless, the topic-specific Committee members considered that these studies would have included a proportion of participants with symptoms that would be found within primary care; they therefore decided that it was appropriate to extrapolate the evidence. The Committee noted that the doses used within some of the included studies, particularly for the TCAs, are higher than would (at least initially) be prescribed for IBS treatment. This raised questions about the directness of these studies and this is reflected within the GRADE tables for these studies. This was not applicable with the SSRIs as they are not usually used at low dose in IBS treatment. NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Evidence review and recommendations The Committee agreed that there is low quality evidence that TCAs and SSRIs have some benefit in the treatment of the symptoms of IBS. Accepting the limitations of this evidence which are noted in the GRADE tables (appendix H), the Committee considered that there was no evidence to contradict or change the recommendations initially developed for CG61. Other The Committee discussed the lack of
