Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


the GRADE tables (appendix H), the Committee considered that there was no evidence to contradict or change the recommendations initially developed for CG61. Other The Committee discussed the lack of recent published studies in this area. considerations Consequently it was agreed that a modification of the research recommendation in CG61 was justified highlighting the need for further research into the treatment of IBS using antidepressants within primary care. Furthermore, they noted that the initiation of TCAs and SSRIs for IBS (for analgesic effect) currently often happens within primary care. The topic- specific Committee members considered that referral to secondary care for this therapy is not necessary, that the prescription of antidepressants could be initiated and monitored in primary care. Therefore it was agreed that the included studies have relevance for primary care and that this is an important question to be reviewed within a primary care based guideline. As currently there is still insufficient evidence on the use of antidepressants for the management of IBS, despite the existing research recommendation on this topic published in the original guideline, the Committee decided and agreed that the research recommendation should be relaunched as part of this update in order to promote more research in this area. 2.1.6 Recommendations 1. Consider tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) as second-line treatment for people with IBS if laxatives, loperamide or antispasmodics have not helped. Start treatment at a low dose (5–10 mg equivalent of amitriptyline), taken once at night, and review regularly. Increase the dose if needed, but not usually beyond 30 mg. 1 2. Consider selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) for people with IBS only if TCAs are ineffective. 1 3. Take into account the possible side effects when offering TCAs or SSRIs to people with IBS. Follow up people taking either of these drugs for the first time at low doses for the treatment of pain or discomfort in IBS after 4 weeks and then every 6–12 months. 1 2.1.7 Research recommendation 1. What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of low-dose TCAs and SSRIs for treating IBS in primary care? 1 At the time of publication , TCAs and SSRIs did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for
