Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council’s Good practice in prescribing and managing medicines and devices for further information. NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Evidence review and recommendations Why this is important There is some evidence for the clinical effectiveness of low-dose TCAs and SSRIs in treating the symptoms of IBS. However, this comes from studies based primarily within secondary or tertiary care settings with low participation rates. There is uncertainty about whether these drugs are effective for people with IBS seen in primary care. Most people with IBS are treated in this setting, and may be different in a number of respects to those seen in secondary and tertiary care. Therefore research on the relative short- and long-term benefits of low-dose TCAs and SSRIs in primary care populations, including clarification on depression as a moderator of response, would help to guide treatment. NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Evidence review and recommendations 2.2 Review question 2: low FODMAP diet 2.2.1 Review question Does a low FODMAP diet have an effect on the symptoms of IBS? 2.2.2 Evidence review The aim of the review was to assess the effectiveness of a low FODMAP diet. The low FODMAP (fermentable oligo-saccharides, di-saccharides, mono-saccharides and polyols) diet restricts dietary short-chain carbohydrates which are poorly absorbed in the small intestine and fermented in the large intestine. This fermentation is not specific to those with IBS but is considered to worsen symptoms in people with IBS who have visceral hypersensitivity. A systematic search was conducted (see appendix D) which identified 2063 articles. The titles and abstracts were screened and 18 articles were identified as potentially relevant. Full text versions of the articles were obtained and reviewed against the criteria specified in the review protocol (appendix C). The review flow chart for this review is in appendix E. There were 2 RCTs and 1 controlled trial included in this review. All of the included studies considered the use of a low FODMAP dietary intervention in participants with IBS. Two of the 3 compared this with habitual/typical diet and one compared this with a ‘standard’ IBS diet (based on current NICE recommendations). Two of the 3 studies included those with varying IBS subtypes (diarrhoea predominant, constipation predominant or both diarrhoea and constipation). The third study included only participants with
