Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


current NICE recommendations). Two of the 3 studies included those with varying IBS subtypes (diarrhoea predominant, constipation predominant or both diarrhoea and constipation). The third study included only participants with diarrhoea and/or bloating. There were no studies identified that considered the low FODMAP diet compared with other diets and then subsequently re-introduced foods containing FODMAPs. Those with IBS are usually advised to follow the low FODMAP diet for up to 8 weeks initially. Within the studies in this review, the time period for the low FODMAP diet was between 21 days and 4 weeks, or was unclear. For full evidence table please see appendix G; for full GRADE profiles please see appendix H. Table 3: Included studies summary Intervention and Reference Participants comparator Outcomes reported Halmos et al N=30 (participants with a Low FODMAP diet for GI symptoms, overall (2014) mix of IBS symptoms) 21days compared with response; bloating; RCT, crossover habitual diet abdominal pain; dissatisfaction with stool consistency Staudacher et al N=41 (participants with Low FODMAP diet for GI symptoms, overall (2012) diarrhoea/bloating 4weeks compared with response; bloating; RCT symptoms) habitual diet abdominal pain; flatulence; diarrhoea; constipation Staudacher et al N=82 (participants with a Low FODMAP diet for GI symptoms, overall (2011) mix of IBS symptoms) an unclear time period response; bloating; Controlled trial compared with abdominal pain; standard IBS diet flatulence; diarrhoea; constipation NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Evidence review and recommendations 2.2.3 Health economic evidence An additional search was undertaken using the same search terms with an economic evaluations filter to identify studies assessing the cost-effectiveness or cost-utility of a low FODMAP diet for irritable bowel syndrome. The search retrieved 507 articles. The titles and abstracts were screened for possible inclusion and no articles were selected for further examination of the full-text version. A review flowchart is provided in appendix E. 2.2.4 Evidence statements 2.2.4.1 GI symptoms and abdominal pain There were 3 studies (2 RCTS (71 participants) and 1 controlled trial, (82 participants)) that reported on overall GI symptoms. Two studies (123 participants) reported clinically significant improvements in overall GI symptoms and in abdominal pain with a low FODMAP diet compared with the standard study diet. One study (30 participants) showed an improvement that was not clinically significant. [Very low quality] There were 3 studies (2 RCTS, (71 participants) and 1 controlled trial (82 participants)) that reported on abdominal pain. All 3 studies
