Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


that was not clinically significant. [Very low quality] There were 3 studies (2 RCTS, (71 participants) and 1 controlled trial (82 participants)) that reported on abdominal pain. All 3 studies reported clinically significant improvements in abdominal pain on low FODMAP diet compared with the standard study diet. [Very low quality] 2.2.4.2 Bloating There were 3 studies that reported on bloating (153 participants). All 3 studies (2 RCTS and 1 controlled trial) reported clinically significant improvements in bloating with a low FODMAP diet compared with the standard diet used in the study. [Very low quality] 2.2.4.3 Flatulence There were 2 studies (123 participants) that reported on flatulence. One RCT (41 participants) found no clinically significant difference in incidence of flatulence between between the groups with a low FODMAP diet compared with the standard study diet. One controlled trial (82 participants) reported clinically significant improvement in flatulence with a low FODMAP diet compared with the standard study diet. [Very low quality] 2.2.4.4 Diarrhoea and constipation There were 2 studies (123 participants) that reported on diarrhoea and constipation. Both studies (1 RCT (41 participants) with participants who had diarrhoea and/or bloating and 1 controlled trial (82 participants)) found no clinical difference in diarrhoea or constipation between the groups on a low FODMAP diet compared with the standard study diet. [Very low quality] 2.2.5 Evidence to recommendations Committee discussions Relative value of The important outcomes were prioritised by the topic-specific members different outcomes (TSMs) through ranking methods and further confirmed by the standing Committee before the review was carried out. The Committee reviewed the use of the low FODMAP diet and discussed whether it would be appropriate to consider evidence where components of the diet had been modified. On the advice of the topic-specific members, the Committee concluded that the low FODMAP intervention should be considered as an entity, that it would not be appropriate to consider restriction of the individual short chain carbohydrates that constitute FODMAP. In the dietary and lifestyle advice section of the original CG61, individual components such as sorbitol (which NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Evidence review and recommendations is a polyol) were mentioned and included. This review only considers the low FODMAP diet as an intervention as a whole, and its effectiveness for managing IBS symptoms. This review does not include updating the individual components included in the original guideline. The Committee considered that the outcomes
