Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


as a whole, and its effectiveness for managing IBS symptoms. This review does not include updating the individual components included in the original guideline. The Committee considered that the outcomes in the included studies are relevant to those with IBS symptoms, though they noted that no quality of life outcomes were reported and that studies had reported outcomes relating to overall and/or individual symptoms. The Committee further noted that long-term outcomes for the low FODMAP diet, particularly on any potential adverse effects, will be very important. However, current included evidence did not have long enough follow-up period to capture these data. Trade-off between The Committee agreed that there is some evidence that the low FODMAP benefits and harms diet has an effect on reducing the symptoms of those with IBS. However, this evidence is limited to a small number of localised trials with small participant numbers. The Committee also noted the RCT including participants with diarrhoea had not found an improvement in diarrhoea related symptoms with the low FODMAP diet. The Committee commented that the low FODMAP diet intervention period of these studies did not match current practice in the NHS, which is routinely 8 weeks due to the availability of a dietitian. It was also discussed that the studies did not include further follow-up or the graded re-introduction phase of high FODMAP foods that follows the initial use of the low FODMAP diet in current practice. In recognition of the limitations of the evidence, the Committee considered whether there was sufficient evidence to enable them to make a specific stand alone recommendation relating to the low FODMAP diet. The Committee discussed that IBS is a common condition and that there may be a considerable impact relating to any recommendation of a dietary intervention. They acknowledged that the low FODMAP diet is currently being used in those with IBS and there is increasing public awareness of this diet. Therefore, guidance in this area would be beneficial and the Committee discussed that there are other dietary and lifestyle changes currently recommended for managing IBS. The Committee commented that any new recommendations relating to the low FODMAP diet should sit within the existing recommendations to ensure that the low FODMAP diet does not get a separate predominance due to its current popularity. As there is a lack of evidence on the long-term edverse effects of low FODMAP diet, the Committee further discussed
