Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


not get a separate predominance due to its current popularity. As there is a lack of evidence on the long-term edverse effects of low FODMAP diet, the Committee further discussed the potential harms of following the low FODMAP diet without dietetic support as the diet can be complex to understand and implement. These may include inappropriate or blanket restriction without suitable food replacements, which could lead to nutritional inadequacy (energy or micronutrient, in particular of calcium [Staudacher et al. 2012]) or even deficiency. In addition, in the short-term, a low FODMAP diet modifies faecal microbiota (Staudacher et al. 2012; Halmos et al. 2014). The long term effects of low FODMAP diet on gut microbiota and colonic environment are unknown and warrant further rersearch. Currently, patients using the low FODMAP diet are usually referred to a dietitian. As the Committee acknowledged the complex nature of this dietary intervention and the need to ensure that those following it have a nutritionally balanced diet, they agreed that the diet should only be undertaken under the advice of a healthcare professional with expertise in dietary management. The Committee noted the limitations of the evidence base. They also noted NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Evidence review and recommendations the importance of contextualising the low FODMAP diet with other diet and lifestyle interventions for IBS and the need for support by appropriate healthcare professionals. In consideration of these issues the Committee concluded that the optimal recommendation would be to supplement a current recommendation with the option of the low FODMAP diet. Therefore recommendation 1.2.1.8 was adapted to include this option. Trade-off between The health economic review did not identify any relevant papers for the use net health benefits of the low FODMAP diet in IBS. The Committee discussed that there may and resource use be future resource implications related to the low FODMAP diet as it is currently delivered through dietitian support. These resource implications were thought to be minimal due to the place of FODMAP advice as one component in the suite of diet and lifestyle interventions for IBS. Quality of evidence The Committee discussed the inherent difficulties with studies that consider dietary intervention, such as the difficulties with blinding the participants. Accounting for this, the Committee agreed that in assessing the studies using GRADE, the evidence was of very low quality. In particular the Committee highlighted the comparison of habitual or
