Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


Accounting for this, the Committee agreed that in assessing the studies using GRADE, the evidence was of very low quality. In particular the Committee highlighted the comparison of habitual or standard diet and the likelihood of a lack of consistency in what this entails. The Committee discussed that the included studies had participants who had been referred to dietitian based clinics and whether they could be considered representative of those with IBS based in primary care. It was agreed that though there may be some differences, these studies have relevance to primary care (accepting the possibility that the study participants may be those with more severe symptoms than those based in primary care). The Committee noted the difficulties in getting funding for IBS related research in general and the importance of reviewing the low FODMAP diet as it is being discussed both professionally and within patient forums. The the Committee felt that it was important to include all of the identified trial based studies and agreed with the inclusion of the controlled study as well as the two RCT based studies. Other The Committee discussed that as the low FODMAP diet is being currently considerations used in those with IBS and that there is very limited evidence of potential benefits and harms, a research recommendation would be appropriate. The Committee considered that this should focus on areas such as patient acceptability of the low FODMAP diet, quality of life, long-term effects and consideration of the re-introduction phase of the low FODMAP intervention. In addition, the Committee also acknowledged that the current dietary resources available for implementing the low FODMAP diet only includes a list of foods that are common in a typical western diet, and that information on culturally specific foods are very limited. Therefore, the Committee emphasized that healthcare professionals need to have an appropriate discussion with people with IBS who wish to go on a dietary intervention, particular people who consumed culturally specific foods. Full information on available food sources for low FODMAP diet needs to be provided and discussed with people with IBS so that an informed decision could be made. 2.2.6 Recommendations 4. If a person’s IBS symptoms persist while following general lifestyle and dietary advice, offer advice on further dietary management. Such advice should: NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Evidence review and recommendations  include single food avoidance and exclusion diets (for
