Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


offer advice on further dietary management. Such advice should: NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Evidence review and recommendations  include single food avoidance and exclusion diets (for example, a low FODMAP [fermentable oligosaccharides, disaccharides, monosaccharides and polyols] diet)  only be given by a healthcare professional with expertise in dietary management. [new 2015] 2.2.7 Research recommendation diet? Why this is important There is a lack of scientific research on the use of the low FODMAP diet in people with IBS. Although there is limited, very low-quality evidence of its effectiveness, anecdotal reports indicate that it is being widely used.The low FODMAP diet is complex. Adherence levels and long-term and adverse effects of the diet are unknown. IBS-related symptoms have a considerable, negative impact on quality of life and there is a lack of evidence on the impact of the low FODMAP diet on this key outcome. NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Evidence review and recommendations 2.3.1 Review question Is linaclotide effective in the treatment of constipation predominant Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS-C)? Is lubiprostone effective in the treatment of IBS-C? 2.3.2 Evidence review The aim of the review was to assess the effectiveness of linaclotide and lubiprostone against either placebo or other treatments for IBS-C. Linaclotide, a guanylate cyclase C receptor agonist is one of a relatively new class of laxatives which is licenced for moderate to severe IBS-C at a dose of 290µg once daily. Lubiprostone, a chloride channel (CIC-2) agonist is also one of a relatively new class of laxatives and is licenced for chronic idiopathic constipation “when lifestyle changes are inadequate” at a dose of 24µg once daily to twice daily. Both linaclotide and lubiprostone draw fluid into the gastrointestinal lumen which accelerates intestinal transit. A systematic search was conducted (see appendix D) for both linaclotide and lubiprostone which identified 606 references. The titles and abstracts were screened and 17 articles were identified as potentially relevant. Full text versions of these 17 articles were obtained and reviewed against the criteria specified in the review protocol (appendix C). 7 of the 17 studies were included (linaclotide n=4, lubiprostone n=3, see table below). The review flow chart for this review is in appendix E. Excluded studies are summarised in appendix F. Only RCTs were included as they are the gold standard for drugs efficacy trials and sufficient RCT evidence has been identified for this
