Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


linaclotide vs. placebo. Discontinuation due to adverse events (abdominal pain (three RCTs, 1777 participants), abdominal distension (2 RCTs, 1607 participants), nausea and UTIs (1 RCT, 170 participants) were not different in linaclotide vs. placebo. [moderate – low quality] There were no clinically significant differences in serious adverse events (meta-analysis of three RCTs, 1777 participants) in linaclotide vs. placebo. [moderate quality] 2.3.4.2 Lubiprostone Quality of life Three RCTs (1467 participants) reported on QOL but pooling was not possible due to missing data in 2 of the 3 studies. Thus, there is a lack of RCTs of sufficient quality to enable evaluation of the effect of lubiprostone on the QOL of participants with IBS-C. Severity and abdominal pain Two RCTs (1278 participants) individually evaluated IBS symptoms (symptom severity and overall responder status respectively) in IBS-C participants receiving lubiprostone vs. placebo. No clinically significant difference in symptom severity was found, but a clinically significant improvement in overall responder status was detected in lubiprostone vs. placebo arms. [low quality] One RCT (120 participants) evaluated abdominal pain in IBS-C participants receiving lubiprostone vs. placebo but detected no clinical difference between study arms. [very low quality] Bowel movement, constipation and bloating Two RCTs (1347 participants) evaluated frequency of spontaneous bowel movements in participants with IBS-C receiving lubiprostone vs. placebo. One study (193 participants) detected a clinically significant improvement in frequency of bowel movements in lubiprostone vs. placebo. The other study (1154 participants) detected no clinically significant improvement. [low and very low quality] One RCT (193 participants) detected no clinically significant improvement in constipation severity. [very low quality] One RCT (120 participants) evaluated bloating in participants receiving lubiprostone vs. placebo but detected no clinically significant difference by study arm. [moderate quality] Discontinuation and adverse events Meta-analysis of 3 RCTs (1256 participants) evaluated discontinuation (for all reasons) in lubiprostone vs. placebo and detected no clinically significant difference in discontinuation by study arm. [low quality] Meta-analysis of 2 RCTs evaluated adverse events (1260 participants) and serious adverse events (1266 participants) and detected no clinically significant differences by study arm [low and moderate quality respectively] with the exception of nausea which was significantly higher in the lubiprostone arm. [moderate quality]. NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Evidence review and recommendations 2.3.5 Evidence to recommendations Relative value of The important outcomes were prioritised by the topic-specific members different outcomes (TSMs) through ranking methods and further confirmed by the standing
