Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


and recommendations 2.3.5 Evidence to recommendations Relative value of The important outcomes were prioritised by the topic-specific members different outcomes (TSMs) through ranking methods and further confirmed by the standing Committee before the review was carried out. The relative value of different outcomes was discussed, and the prioritised, important outcomes were as follows: Quality of life, symptoms, pain, patient preferences, deterioration, stool score/change in bowel habit and relapse, flatulence or bloating. Across the included studies (n=7), more than 50 different outcome measures/metrics were reported that were relevant to the 7 agreed important outcomes. There were also differences in the way outcomes were reported between linaclotide and lubiprostone to decide which of these were the most clinically relevant and important to patients. The TSMs were again consulted, and a total of 21 outcomes were subsequently selected. These were:- Linaclotide Quality of Life 1. Quality of Life (IBS QOL Scale) 2. Quality of Life responder (>14 point change on IBS QOL Scale) Symptoms 3. Improvement of ≥ 30% from baseline in average daily worst abdominal pain score 50% of the time (calculated weekly) (FDA suggested) 4. Rate increase in stool frequency - ≥1 complete spontaneous bowel movement (CSBM) per week from baseline (FDA suggested) 5. Combined weekly FDA responder (improvements in both pain and stool frequency) (FDA suggested) 6. Improvement of ≥ 30% from baseline in average daily worst abdo pain score 75% of the time (calculated wkly) (FDA suggested) 7. Combined end point defined a responder (improvements in pain and stool frequency (≥3 CBSMs and increase of ≥1 CSBM from baseline) 75% of the time (FDA suggested) 8. 12-week abdominal pain/discomfort responders (≥30% reduction in mean abdominal pain and/or discomfort (11 point scale) with neither worsening from baseline for ≥6 weeks) (EMA suggested) 9. 12-week IBS degree of relief responders (symptoms ‘considerably’ or ‘completely’ relieved for ≥6/12wks) (EMA suggested) Stool Score/Bowel habits 10. Constipation Severity (% with decrease in ≥ 1 point on BSFS for ≥ 50% weeks) 11. Mean change in constipation (5 point scale, 1 = none, 5=very severe) Relapse or flatulence or bloating 12. Abdominal bloating (% of patients with ≥30% decrease in discomfort for ≥50% of weeks) Lubiprostone Quality of Life 13. Quality of Life (IBS QOL Scale) 14. Life interference (0-10 scale) Symptoms 15. IBS Symptom severity (Score out of 500) 16. Overall Relief Responder Status (based on reported 7-point relief scale) Pain 17. Pain (0-10
