Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


Scale) 14. Life interference (0-10 scale) Symptoms 15. IBS Symptom severity (Score out of 500) 16. Overall Relief Responder Status (based on reported 7-point relief scale) Pain 17. Pain (0-10 scale) Stool Score/Bowel habits 18. Spontaneous Bowel Movements (SBMs) (Frequency) 19. Constipation severity (5 point scale) (0= absent, 4=very severe) NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Evidence review and recommendations 20. Stool output (days with hard/lumpy stools or no stools %) Relapse or flatulence or bloating 21. Bloating (0-10 point scale) The Committee was advised of the agreed sub outcomes prior to further analysis. As the FDA and EMA suggested outcomes included individual and composite outcomes for pain and stool frequency, these were reported once under the outcome ‘symptoms’ and not separately under ‘pain’ or ‘stool frequency’. The FDA and EMA recommended that clinical relevance for continuous outcomes should be considered as ≥30% improvement. This figure was therefore used to assess clinical relevance for each continuous outcome. The Committee considered the recent EMA recommendations not to use ‘overall relief’ as an outcome measure, and thus decided that this information weakened the suggested benefit of lubiprostone. The Committee advised that changes to stool consistency should equate to a minimum of two points on the BSFS to be clinically important. Quality of evidence There was variation in how outcomes were reported for both drugs and several composite outcomes reported. For all included studies, the reviewer had to back-calculate statistics to obtain results of sufficient quality before evaluation could begin. Linaclotide Effects favouring linaclotide vs. placebo were both statistically and clinically significant in 7 out of 12 selected clinical outcomes. Six of these 7 outcomes included a meta-analysis of at least 2 studies. Quality ratings were moderate (3 pooled outcomes), low (2 pooled outcomes) and very low (1 pooled outcome). One outcome included 3 individual studies that could not be pooled (moderate to very low quality). Moderate, low or very low quality evidence suggests that linaclotide may improve quality of life, stool frequency, combination of pain and stool frequency, degree of relief, constipation and bloating in people with IBS-C. Potential confounders cannot be excluded. Use of rescue medication (other laxatives), use of concomitant laxatives (bulk forming and stool softeners), use of other medications e.g. anti-depressants, anti-spasmodics and analgesics, dietary fibre modification, fluid intake and exercise levels were not reported by study arm, leading to concerns about drug efficacy. As such the
