Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


other medications e.g. anti-depressants, anti-spasmodics and analgesics, dietary fibre modification, fluid intake and exercise levels were not reported by study arm, leading to concerns about drug efficacy. As such the overall evidence quality was rated down due to risk of bias. The Committee acknowledged that we could not be sure whether it was the study drug, the rescue medication or concomitant medication, or the combinations of all of these that had a positive effect on the outcomes. The efficacy of linaclotide was discussed in detail, taking into account the evidence quality and the risk of bias for the above reasons. It was acknowledged that many people who have tried multiple laxatives without adequate symptom relief over a period of time. The Committee discussed and agreed that people with IBS with constipation who have not achieved symptoms relieve after 12 months of optimnal or maximum doses of conventional laxativeswarrant a trial of linaclotide. The 12 months period was based on the trials’ baseline entry information (Chey 2012; Rao 2012; NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Evidence review and recommendations Johnston 2010). Therefore, the Committee decided that a weak recommendation would be appropriate for this drug, taking into account individual patient symptoms (severity and duration) and previous treatment options that may not have induced sufficient or long-lasting relief. The Committee also agreed that follow-up was very important for this subgroup of patients and they should be reviewed every 3 months to assess the efficacy of linaclotide. Lubiprostone Effects favouring lubiprostone vs. placebo were both statistically and clinically significant in only 2 out of 9 selected important outcomes (overall relief and spontaneous bowel movements) and the evidence rating for these outcomes was low. One of these outcomes was reported by 2 studies - 1 small study was both statistically and clinically significant, the other larger study was not. As the evidence for efficacy of lubiprostone was low quality the Committee decided there was insufficient evidence to warrant a recommendation for the use of lubiprostone in this update. Trade-off between Linaclotide benefits and harms Benefits of linaclotide identified in the evidence review were improvements in quality of life, stool frequency, combination of pain and stool frequency,degree of relief, constipation and bloating. The outcome quality ratings were from moderate to very low. Diarrhoea was the only adverse event that was both statistically and clinically worse in the linaclotide arm. The Committee acknowledged diarrhoea
