Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


outcome quality ratings were from moderate to very low. Diarrhoea was the only adverse event that was both statistically and clinically worse in the linaclotide arm. The Committee acknowledged diarrhoea is an adverse event common to all laxatives. CG61 recommends dose titration and monitoring of laxatives according to clinical response. Taking multiple laxatives from different classes could contribute to polypharmacy which may be undesirable for some people and therefore affect adherence to prescribed doses. Lubiprostone Benefits of lubiprostone were more uncertain than those for linaclotide and were limited to an improvement in overall relief only (low quality evidence). Nausea was more likely in the lubiprostone vs. placebo arms and this could be considered by some people as a minor harm, although nausea is also a potential consequence of constipation. Trade-off between No existing economic evaluations of linaclotide or lubiprostone were net health benefits identified. The Committee considered the unit costs of linaclotide and and resource use lubiprostone and compared these to the lower unit costs of various classes of laxatives currently used in the NHS. The Committee considered that there may be a reduction in resource use due to a decrease in presentations to healthcare if symptomatic relief is achieved. Other The Committee decided that the predominantly female population across all considerations the included studies (86-92%) was reasonable as it reflected the epidemiology of the IBS population. The Committee discussed the timing and setting for potential prescribing of linaclotide. It was agreed that prescribing recommendations should not be limited to secondary care, and that other conventional laxative classes recommended by the original guideline should be tried first, taking individual NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Evidence review and recommendations patient preferences into account. The Committee further discussed whether a research recommendation was required for this topic. They agreed that further efficacy trials for linaclotide were not necessary. Regarding lubiprostone, as it is off-label for treating IBS and there is already a licensed and indicated alternative (linaclotide) for which a positive recommendation has been made, the Committee felt that a further research recommendation on this was not necessary. 2.3.6 Recommendations 5. Consider linaclotide for people with IBS only if:  optimal or maximum tolerated doses of previous laxatives from different classes have not helped and  they have had constipation for at least 12 months. Follow up people taking linaclotide after 3 months. [new 2015] 2.3.7 Research recommendation The
