Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


different classes have not helped and  they have had constipation for at least 12 months. Follow up people taking linaclotide after 3 months. [new 2015] 2.3.7 Research recommendation The Committee did not prioritise the need for research recommendation in this area. NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Evidence review and recommendations 2.4 Review question 5: Psychological interventions This first part of this section (review question part 5a) will update the evaluation of relaxation compared to other interventions in the management of IBS undertaken in CG61. The second part of the section (review question 5b) will evaluate the effectiveness of computerised cognitive behavioural therapy and mindfulness therapy compared to usual care and other interventions; this will not not supercede the separate recommendation about hypnotherapy, Cognitive Behavioural Therapy and psychological interventions originally made in CG61 (recommendation 1.2.3.1). 2.4.1 Review question 5a Do psychotherapies (relaxation therapy) have an effect on symptoms of IBS? 2.4.2 Evidence review 2.4.2.1 Relaxation therapies The aim of the review was to assess the clinical and cost- effectiveness of relaxation therapies compared to other interventions in the management of IBS. A systematic search was conducted (see appendix D) which identified 2553 articles. The titles and abstracts were screened and 19 articles were identified as potentially relevant. Full text versions of the articles were obtained and reviewed against the criteria specified in the review protocol (appendix C). The review flow chart for this review is in appendix E. In addition, a Cochrane Review assessing the psychological treatments for the management of irritable bowel syndrome was identified , along with 4 studies from the original CG61 guideline (Blanchard et al., 1993; Keefer 2001; Forbes et al., 2000; Boyce et al., 2003). One study from the previous guideline that was included in this review (Forbes et al., 2000) was a three-armed trial comprising CBT, relaxation and placebo, and was not previously included in the relaxation comparison. Of the 23 studies identified, 19 studies were excluded, including 2 which were originally included in the evidence review in CG61; these were excluded because 1 broke randomisation and was therefore no longer considered an RCT and for the other study there was insufficient information about the study to classify it as randomised controlled trial (Keefer, 2001). The Cochrane Review was excluded because it included relaxation and other CBT- based therapies as the intervention. Details of the included studies are given in evidence
