Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


controlled trial (Keefer, 2001). The Cochrane Review was excluded because it included relaxation and other CBT- based therapies as the intervention. Details of the included studies are given in evidence tables in appendix G. The quality of evidence for each important outcome was appraised using the approach recommended by the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) working group (see appendix H). Four RCTs were subsequently included in this review. Two studies compared relaxation to study compared relaxation to hypnotherapy. Studies reported outcomes at multiple time points. As IBS is considered to be a chronic effectiveness of the intervention. Where more than 1 study reported the same outcome and the results could be meta- analysed, more than one time point has been used. This is so that both pooled results and results from the longest follow- up point were available for analysis. NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Evidence review and recommendations Table 4: Included studies summary Intervention and Reference Participants comparator Outcomes reported Boyce et al. N=44 (participants Relaxation therapy Quality of Life (2003) diagnosed with IBS compared to routine outcomes: SF36, criteria) weeks. Symptom score: BSS Shinozaki (2010) N=21 (participants Autogenic training Quality of Life diagnosed with IBS compared to control outcomes: SIBSQ, according to Rome II for 8 weeks. SDS, STAI, SF36, criteria, all non-responders Automatic thoughts, to previous treatment) locus of control, HAD (total) Symptom score: BSSS (frequency, distress, interference), Lahman (2010) N=80 (participants Functional relaxation Symptom score: score, diagnosed with IBS compared to enhanced IBS symptoms, according to Rome II medical care for 5 Abdominal pain, criteria within prior 2 years) weeks. deterioration (diarrhoea and constipation), bloating Forbes (2000) N=25 (participants Relaxation compared Quality of Life diagnosed with IBS to hypnotherapy for 12 outcomes: GHQ, according to Rome I weeks HADS, SF36. criteria, symptomatic for at least 6 months failed to Symptom score: respond to conventional Overall symptom score therapy) 2.4.3 Health economic evidence 2.4.3.1 Relaxation therapies An additional search was undertaken using the same search terms with an economic evaluations filter to identify studies assessing the cost-effectiveness or cost-utility of relaxation therapies (see appendix D). The search retrieved 1,153 articles. The titles and abstracts were screened for possible inclusion, and 14 articles were selected for further examination of the full-text version. No economic evaluations were included for review. A review flowchart is provided in appendix E, and the excluded studies (with
