Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


articles were selected for further examination of the full-text version. No economic evaluations were included for review. A review flowchart is provided in appendix E, and the excluded studies (with reasons for exclusion) are shown in appendix F. 2.4.4 Evidence statements 2.4.4.1 Relaxation therapies 2.4.4.1.1 Relaxation/ autogenic training vs routine clinical care/ control Quality of life One study (21 participants) reported the quality of life outcomes SIBSQ, SDS and STAI; there is no clinically significant improvement in any of these outcomes within either group or between the relaxation or control groups at 8 weeks follow up. [very low quality] Two studies (65 participants) reported SF36 individual domain scores at 8 weeks follow up; there is no clinically significant improvement in any SF36 domain within either group or NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Evidence review and recommendations between the relaxation or control groups at 8 weeks follow up [very low quality]. One study (n=34) reported SF36 individual domain scores at 52 weeks follow up; there is only clinically significant improvement in the domain “role physical” within the relaxation group and there is considerable uncertainty [very low quality], the difference between relaxation and control groups at 52 weeks follow up does not reach clinical significance. [very low quality] One study (34 participants) reported the quality of life outcomes ATQ, LCB and HADS; there is no clinically significant improvement in any of these outcomes within groups or between relaxation therapy and control groups at 52 weeks follow up. [very low quality] Symptom scores One study (21 participants) reporting adequate relief at 8 weeks follow up suggests that relaxation therapy may be more clinically effective than control, but there is some uncertainty. [very low quality] One study reported Bowel Symptom Severity Score (BSSS) domains of frequency, interference and distress (34 participants) at 52 weeks follow up; there is no clinically significant improvement in any BSSS domain within groups or between relaxation therapy and control groups at 52 weeks follow up. [very low quality] No studies were identified that reported the outcomes patient preference, stool score/ general changes in bowel habit, relapse or flatulence. 2.4.4.1.2 Relaxation vs enhanced medical care Quality of life One study (80 participants) reported impairment severity score domains of bodily impairment, psychic impairment and social impairment; there is no clinically significant improvement in any of these outcomes within groups or between relaxation therapy and control groups at 12
