Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


of bodily impairment, psychic impairment and social impairment; there is no clinically significant improvement in any of these outcomes within groups or between relaxation therapy and control groups at 12 weeks follow up. [low quality] Abdominal pain and deterioration One study (80 participants) reported abdominal pain, diarrhoea and constipation [very low quality outcomes], bloating and overall IBS symptoms [low quality outcomes]; there is no clinically significant improvement in any of these outcomes within groups or between relaxation therapy and control groups at 12 weeks follow up. No studies were identified that reported the outcomes patient preference, stool score/ general changes in bowel habit, relapse or flatulence. 2.4.4.1.3 Relaxation vs hypnotherapy Quality of life One study (25 participants) reported the quality of life outcomes GHQ, HADS and individual domains of SF36. There was no clinically significant difference within groups or between relaxation and hypnotherapy groups for GHQ and HADS (anxiety and depression domains) at 12 weeks follow up. [very low quality] There was clinically significant improvement in SF36 “role physical” domain between relaxation and hypnotherapy (favouring hypnotherapy) at 12 weeks follow up [very low No other domain of the SF36 showed clinically significant improvement within groups or between relaxation and hypnotherapy groups at 12 weeks follow up [very low quality]. All other SF36 domains except health change had higher baseline scores in the relaxation group NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Evidence review and recommendations than the hypnotherapy group. As baseline scores between groups were not comparable, there is uncertainty about the IBS population of this study and the effect of the intervention. Symptom score One study (25 participants) reported outcome overall symptom score; the data suggests that there is no clinically significant improvement within groups or between relaxation or hypnotherapy groups at 12 weeks follow up. The uncertainty around this result cannot be interpreted due to the way that the data is presented. [very low quality] No studies were identified that reported the outcomes abdominal pain, patient preferences, deterioration, stool score/ general changes in bowel habit and relapse or flatulence. 2.4.5 Evidence to recommendations Relaxation therapies Committee discussions Relative value of Important outcomes were prioritised through ranking by the topic-specific different outcomes members (TSMs) of the Committee and agreed by other standing Committee members before the review was carried out. The following outcomes were considered important in decision making: Quality of Life, symptom scores, abdominal pain, patient preferences,
