Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


agreed by other standing Committee members before the review was carried out. The following outcomes were considered important in decision making: Quality of Life, symptom scores, abdominal pain, patient preferences, deterioration, stool score/ general changes in bowel habit, relapse or flatulence or bloating. The Committee discussed and agreed that quality of life would be the most critical patient-important outcome as IBS is a chronic condition. However, the Committee noted that 2 of the included studies reported SF36 (quality of life scale) as individual domains. The Committee noted that there was uncertainty around the interpretation of the scores of individual domains of SF36 and that conclusions could not be drawn from the results reported in the studies. The Committee did not identify any adverse events specifically relating to relaxation therapy and no adverse events were identified from the studies included in the evidence review. The Committee noted that due to the nature of the intervention, adverse events are unlikely. Quality of evidence All outcomes for the included comparisons of relaxation vs routine care, relaxation vs enhanced medical care and relaxation vs hypnotherapy were assessed as either low or very low quality evidence using the GRADE methodology. The Committee reviewed the evidence, taking into account the low and very low quality evidence available for this review. The Committee noted that the 4 interventions included were very different, that currently there is still no agreed definition for relaxation therapy in the NHS where components of relaxation are usually adopted as part of CBT rather than a stand- alone intervention. The Committee decided that due to the limited and poor quality evidence, it was not possible to make a recommendation about relaxation as a stand-alone therapy that would apply to the wider population with IBS. Trade-off between Using a 30% change from baseline score for continuous outcome (as of the 30 separate outcomes suggested that there was possible clinical 2 Guideline on the evaluation of medicinal products for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome (2013). European Medicines Agency. [Accessed [DATE] at NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Evidence review and recommendations benefit for relaxation and one outcome suggested possible clinical benefit for hypnotherapy compared to placebo. There was considered to be possible clinical benefit with relaxation compared to routine care with regards to obtaining adequate relief and improvement in SF36 role ‘physical domain’, but there was some uncertainty around both of the
